18 December 2013 
EMA/176383/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Rebif  
International non-proprietary name: INTERFERON BETA-1A 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000136/II/0103 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Merck Serono Europe Limited 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 2 October 2013 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary name: 
Presentations: 
Rebif 
INTERFERON BETA-1A 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
C.I.4 
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new quality, 
preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Type 
II 
The MAH proposed the update of sections 4.2 and 4.8 of the Summary of Product Characteristics 
(SmPC) in order to add safety information relevant to the paediatric population. The Package Leaflet 
(PL) was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur:  Bengt Ljungberg 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
2 October 2013 
20 October 2013 
22 November 2013 
18 December 2013 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Rebif (interferon beta-1a) was approved in Europe on 4 May 1998. Interferons (IFNs) are a group of 
endogenous  glycoproteins  endowed  with 
immunomodulatory,  antiviral  and  antiproliferative 
properties. Rebif (interferon beta-1a) shares the same amino acid sequence with endogenous human 
interferon  beta.  It  is  produced  in  mammalian  cells  (Chinese  hamster  ovary)  and  is  therefore 
glycosylated like the natural protein. 
Rebif is indicated for the treatment of  
•  patients  with  a  single  demyelinating  event  with  an  active  inflammatory  process,  if  alternative 
diagnoses have been excluded, and if they are determined to be at high risk of developing clinically 
definite multiple sclerosis (see section 5.1)  
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 2/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• patients with relapsing  multiple sclerosis. In clinical trials, this was characterised  by two or more 
acute exacerbations in the previous two years (see section 5.1).  
Efficacy has not been demonstrated in patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis without 
ongoing relapsing activity (see section 5.1). 
Multiple  sclerosis  (MS)  is  a  chronic,  inflammatory,  demyelinating  disease  of  the  central  nervous 
system (CNS) and is one of the most common causes of neurological disability in young adults. It is 
characterized  by  multifocal  recurrent  attacks  (relapses)  of  neurological  symptoms  and  signs  with 
variable recovery. Eventually, the majority of subjects develop a progressive clinical course. Because 
the  onset  of  MS  is  less  common  before  the  age  of  eighteen,  most  reports  of  MS  in  the  pediatric 
population describe single cases or small groups without being able to define distinct characteristics 
of the disease in this age group. 
The  MAH  performed  a  retrospective  cohort  study  of  Rebif  use  in  pediatric  MS  patients  (REPLAY, 
EMR200136-024) and conducted a review of paediatric cases captured in the company Global Drug 
Safety  database.  Consequently,  with  this  type  II  variation  the  MAH  proposed  an  update  of  the 
Product Information to add information relevant to the paediatric population. 
2.2.  Clinical Efficacy aspects 
2.2.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Study  EMR200136-024  (REPLAY)  was  a  retrospective  single  cohort  study  of  paediatric  patients 
exposed  to  Rebif  for  treatment  of  demyelinating  events.  Data  sources  typically  included  hospital 
discharge files, medical records, ad-hoc clinical databases, administrative records, prescription drug 
files and biological measurements. This study was retrospective (historical) in that the exposure and 
outcomes  had  already  been  captured.  However,  all  information  on  exposure,  covariates  and 
outcomes  (including  medical  events)  had  been  prospectively  recorded  in  the  patients’  medical 
records at the centres as part of routine healthcare. 
The  study  collected  and  reviewed  medical  records  from  307  children  and  adolescents  treated  with 
Rebif.  The  study  period  began  in  1997  and  ended  in  2009.  The  start  of  the  observation  period  for 
each individual patient was the date of the first medical record available on site, e.g. a visit to the 
site during the first demyelinating event. For each outcome, patients were followed until the end of 
the  observation  period,  defined  as  the  last  medical  record  available  on  site,  or  31  Dec  2009, 
whichever occurred first. The following four periods of interest were defined: 
Pre-Rebif Period (P1): All data collected from the first medical record until the initiation of Rebif 
treatment 
Treatment Period (P2): All data collected from the initiation until the end of Rebif treatment 
Observation Period (P3): All data collected from the initiation of Rebif treatment until the last 
medical record (or until 31 Dec 2009). 
Post-Rebif Period (P4): All data collected from the end of Rebif treatment to the end of the study, 
for patients who stopped Rebif treatment. 
The  MS  Analysis  Set  (MSAS),  comprising  all  patients  with  a  final  diagnosis  of  MS,  was  used  for 
efficacy analyses.  
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 3/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Results 
The MSAS comprised 298 patients, with 50 patients who were <12 years of age at Rebif initiation and 
248 who were 12 to <18 years of age. Overall, the mean (±SD) age at time of MS diagnosis was 13.3 
(±3.1)  years.  The  mean  (±SD)  age  at  time  of  MS  diagnosis  was  8.2  (±2.6)  years  for  patients  <12 
years and 14.3 (±2.1) years for patients 12 to <18 years. 99.7% of patients had an initial MS course 
of  RRMS.  The  median  highest  EDSS  score  pre-Rebif  initiation  was  3.0  for  patients  <12  years  of  age 
and 2.5 for patients 12 to <18 years. The percentage of patients with highest EDSS scores of ≥4 pre-
Rebif initiation was higher among patients <12 years of age (32.0% [16/50]) than patients 12 to <18 
years of age (11.3% [28/248]). 
Annualized relapse rate 
For  all  patients  in  the  MSAS,  the  annualized  attack  rate  was  lower  during  Rebif  treatment  (P2)  than 
during the pre-Rebif period (P1), which included the first demyelinating event; 0.47 attacks/ year vs. 
1.79  attacks/year,  respectively.  For  the  period  from  start  of  Rebif  treatment  to  end  of  study  (P3), 
which  included  both  patients  who  were  still  on  Rebif  treatment  at  the  end  of  the  study  and  patients 
who  had  discontinued  Rebif,  the  rate  was  0.53  attacks/  year.  For  the  period  from  the  end  of  Rebif 
treatment  until  the  end  of  observation  (P4),  which  included  only  patients  who  discontinued  Rebif 
prematurely  and  either  switched  to  another  DMD  or  remained  untreated,  the  rate  was  0.77 
attacks/year. 
Figure 1 Medically Confirmed Clinical Attacks, MSAS 
The annualized attack rate before Rebif initiation (P1) was 1.99 attacks/year for patients <12 years of 
age at Rebif initiation and 1.74 attacks/year for patients age 12 to <18 years. During Rebif treatment 
(P2), the annualized attack rate was lower in patients <12 years of age than patients 12 to <18 years 
of  age  (0.27  attacks/year  vs.  0.54  attacks/year).  The  annualized  attack  rate  during  Rebif  treatment 
was  lower  in  patients  who  received  22  mcg  tiw  than  in  patients  who  received  44  mcg  tiw  at  the 
initiation  of  Rebif  treatment  (0.35  vs.  0.68  attacks/year,  respectively),  although  rates  were  similar 
before Rebif initiation (1.85 vs. 1.73 attacks/year, respectively) for these dose groups.  
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 4/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.3.  Discussion 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  REPLAY  study  was  a  retrospective  collection  of  data  from  the  past 
medical  records  and  thus,  many  potential  confounding  factors  such  as  exposure  to  other 
medications,  co-morbidities,  gender,  weight  and  age  at  the  time  of  first  Rebif  injection  potentially 
could impact the efficacy results. Other potential biases could have been introduced by differences in 
data collection practices and patient selection procedures, by the different Rebif exposures (different 
dosages  and  durations  of  treatment)  and  by  missing  data.  Taken  together,  the  MAH´s  conclusion 
that the efficacy outcomes should be interpreted with caution because the study was not controlled 
and  a  number  of  biases  could  have  influenced  the  outcomes  was  accepted  by  the  CHMP.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  CHMP  took  into  consideration  that  symptoms  and  course  of  multiple  sclerosis  are 
very  similar  between  the  younger  and  the  adult  population  and  concluded  that  no  additional 
separate studies with Rebif in children and adolescents were necessary to establish efficacy. 
2.3.  Clinical Safety aspects 
2.3.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
REPLAY study 
The Total Analysis Set (TAS), comprising all patients included in the REPLAY study (EMR200136-024), 
was used for all safety analyses.  
Due  to  the  retrospective  nature  of  the  study,  safety  data  collection  was  focused  on  any  serious 
medical  events  regardless  of  their  relatedness  to  Rebif,  pre-specified  medical  events  of  special 
interest and  any other medical events (regardless of seriousness) considered by the Investigator as 
related to Rebif treatment. 
The  pre-specified  medical  events  of  special  interest  were  defined  as  all  events  regardless  of 
seriousness and relatedness that were included in one of the following categories: 
-  Medical events known to be related to IFN-beta-1a treatment, such as injection site reactions 
(ISRs), FLS, blood cell disorders, hepatic disorders, allergic reactions and thyroid disorders 
-  Medical events under close monitoring with Rebif, such as malignancies, serious infections and 
autoimmune diseases 
-  Medical  events  most  prone  to  occur  in  a  pediatric  population  with  or  without  MS,  such  as 
epilepsy and convulsive disorders and bone/epiphyseal and cartilage disorders. 
Laboratory  values  were  collected  retrospectively  from  medical  records  and  were  available  for  the 
majority  of  patients.  Due  to  the  retrospective  nature  of  the  study,  collection of  laboratory  data  was 
not  standardized,  which  meant  that  some  patients  had  laboratory  data  collected  regularly,  whereas 
other patients had no or limited laboratory data recorded in their medical files. 
Global Drug Safety database search criteria: 
The Global Safety Database was searched with the following query: 
- Suspected drug: Rebif/Interferon beta-1a 
- All cases from patients aged between 0 years to 17 years (inclusive) 
- All reporting sources (clinical trials solicited, spontaneous solicited and unsolicited and literature) 
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 5/11 
 
 
 
 
 
- Medically confirmed AND not medically confirmed 
- Serious and non-serious 
2.3.2.  Results 
Safety findings from REPLAY study 
Serious Medical Events 
The  TAS  comprised  307  patients,  of  whom  52  patients  were  2  to  <12  years  of  age  at  the  time  of 
Rebif initiation and 255 were 12 to <18 years of age. A total of 18 serious medical events (regardless 
of causality) were reported in 12 patients (3.9%). All serious medical events had single occurrences. 
There were no deaths during the period covered by this retrospective analysis.  
Four  of  the  307  (1.3%)  patients  reported  serious  medical  events  that  were  considered  by  the 
Investigator  as  related  to  Rebif  treatment.  Four  additional  patients  (1.3%)  experienced  serious 
medical  events  for  which  an  ‘unknown’  causal  relationship  to  Rebif  treatment  was  assigned  by  the 
Investigator.  Six  of  the  307  patients  (2.0%)  reported  serious  medical  events  that  were  considered 
not related to Rebif treatment.  
With  the  exception  of  ‘irritability’,  all  serious  medical  events  considered  as  related  to  Rebif,  i.e. 
injection site reactions, hepatic enzyme elevations and thrombocytopenic purpura are known adverse 
reactions for Rebif and listed in the reference safety information of Rebif. The single case of irritability 
occurred  in  a  12-year-old  female,  11  days  after  the  first  injection  of  Rebif.  The  event  resolved 
following  treatment  discontinuation.  A  causal  association  between  irritability  and  Rebif  in  this 
particular case could not be excluded due to the short latency and positive dechallenge.  
Serious  medical  events  with  an  ‘unknown’  relationship  to  Rebif,  as  per  the  Investigator,  were 
autoimmune hepatitis, cholelithiasis, hypersensitivity, auditory hallucinations and suicidal behaviour.  
All  but  one  of  the  serious  medical  events  considered  related  or  of  unknown  causality  to  Rebif  were 
reported in patients aged 12 to <18 years of age at the time of Rebif initiation. With the exception of 
hypersensitivity  in  a  9-year-old  patient  and  irritability  in  a  12-year-old  female,  all  other  events 
occurred in patients aged from 16 to 18 years.  
Serious  medical  events  considered  not  related  to  Rebif  by  the  Investigator  included  convulsion, 
epilepsy,  appendicectomy,  omentectomy,  suicidal  ideation,  anaphylactic  reaction  and  cellulitis.  Each 
medical event was reported in just one patient each. All but three serious medical events that were 
considered not related to Rebif occurred in patients aged 12 to <18 years of age at the time of Rebif 
initiation. The serious medical events in patients <12 years of age at the time of Rebif initiation were 
epilepsy in a 9-year-old patient and appendectomy with omentectomy in another 9-year-old patient. 
Pre-Specified Medical Events 
At  least  one  pre-specified  medical  event  was  reported  in  54.7%  (168/307)  of  patients.  The  most 
frequent  pre-specified  events  were  injection  site  reactions,  in  27.7%  of  patients,  and  the  most 
frequent  injection  site  reactions  were  injection  site  erythema  (15.6%)  and  injection  site  pain 
(11.1%).  Flu-like  symptoms  (FLS)  were  reported  in  24.4%  of  patients.  Hepatic  disorders  were 
reported  in  14.3%  of  patients  and  the  most  frequent  medical  events  were  ALT  increase  (4.2%), 
hepatic  enzyme  increase  and  liver  function  test  abnormality  (2.9%  each).  Fourteen  patients  (4.6%; 
14/307)  had  medical  events  related  to  blood  cell  disorders;  the  most  frequently  reported  were 
leukopenia  or  white  blood  cell  count  decreased  in  2.9%  (9/307)  of  patients  and  neutropenia  or 
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 6/11 
 
 
 
 
neutrophil count decreased in 1.3% (4/307) of patients. All other pre-specified medical events were 
reported in less than 2% of patients. 
Analysis by age group for the pre-defined medical events of special interest did not show significant 
differences between the <12 years and 12 to <18 years age groups. FLS and hepatic disorders were 
reported with a slightly higher frequency in the younger age group, whereas injection site reactions 
and blood cell disorders were reported more frequently in the 12 to <18 years age group. 
Non-serious medical events considered by the investigator as related to Rebif 
Any  medical  events,  regardless  of  seriousness,  considered  by  the  Investigator  as  related  to  Rebif 
were collected. About half of patients (53.1%; 163/307) had at least one non-serious medical event 
that was considered by the Investigator as related to Rebif. The most commonly reported non-serious 
medical events (≥1% of patients) were headache, myalgia, pyrexia, fatigue, chills and depression. 
Analysis by age group revealed slight differences in reporting patterns in the medical events: pyrexia 
was  reported  more  frequently  in  the  younger  age  group  (<12  years),  whereas  headache  was 
reported more frequently in the 12 to <18 years age group. Depression was reported exclusively in 
the 12 to <18 years age group. 
Clinical Laboratory Evaluation (REPLAY) 
In both age groups, the most frequent out of normal range values following Rebif initiation pertained 
to ALT (15/52 [39.5%] patients <12 years of age and 59/255 [37.6%] patients 12 to <18 years of 
age)  and  AST  (11/52  [28.9%]  patients  <12  years  of  age  and  48/255  [30.8%]  patients  12  to  <18 
years).  Hematocrit,  hemoglobin, leukocytes,  lymphocytes  and  neutrophils were  out  of  normal  range 
in  4  to  8  patients  <12  years  of  age,  and  in  28  to  47  patients  12  to  <18  years  of  age.  No  clinically 
relevant differences were observed between the two age groups. 
Post-marketing safety data on the use of Rebif in paediatric MS Patients 
The  cumulative  exposure  to  Rebif  regardless  of  age,  gender  or  any  other  factor  amounts  to 
approximately  1,021,825  patient-years  in  the  post-marketing  setting.  While  it  is  known  that  Rebif 
and other disease modifying drugs are currently prescribed to the paediatric population, the extent of 
Rebif  exposure  in  the  paediatric  population  was  not  established  by  the  MAH,  because  sales  volume 
gives  an  estimate  of  the  number  of  patients  treated  with  Rebif  as  a  whole  without  providing 
information on age or gender. 
A  total  of  1238  Individual  Case  Safety  Reports  (ICSR)  corresponding  to  the  search  criteria  outlined 
above were retrieved from the Global Drug Safety Database. 
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 7/11 
 
 
 
 
 
The  1,238  ICSRs  contained  a  total  of  2,889  events.  Most  of  the  events  were  non-serious  (90.6%), 
versus 9.4% serious events. 
The  SOCs  showing  the  greatest  number  of  serious  reactions  were  Nervous  system  disorders  (99), 
Psychiatric  disorders  (25),  General  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions  (22),  Infections  and 
infestations  (18),  Gastro-intestinal  disorders  (16),  Investigations  (14)  and  Congenital,  familial  and 
genetic conditions (12). 
A  total  of  13  cases  of  convulsions  were  reported;  the  majority  of  convulsions  were  coming  from 
adolescents (11/13). 
A total of 15 cases of depression and/or suicidal ideation events were reported. 
Comparison  of  the  reporting  proportion  of  events  between  pediatric  patients  and  adult  patients 
treated  with  Rebif  showed  a  higher  reporting  of  events  describing  “elevation  of  transaminases”  in 
pediatric  MS  patients.  Although  most  case  reports  contained  limited  information,  the  majority  of 
hepatic  enzymes  increases  reported  from  pediatric  patients  were  non-serious  (93%).  Hepatic 
disorders  were  reported  in  only  6  pediatric  patients  (one  in  a  neonate,  all  other  patients  were  >12 
years  old).  The  events  reported  in  adolescents  included  interferon-induced  hepatitis,  one  liver 
disorder and one liver injury described as elevated liver enzymes, all resolving following a permanent 
discontinuation  of  Rebif  (22mcg),  one  cholelithiasis  necessitating  cholecystectomy  with  temporary 
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 8/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinuation  of  Rebif  due  to  concomitant  elevated  liver  enzymes  and  one  hepatitis  which  was 
ongoing at the time of Rebif (22mcg) discontinuation.  
Most of the non-serious events reported in more than 10 patients are well characterized with Rebif, 
such  as  injection  site  reactions,  flu-like  symptoms,  headache,  myalgia,  chills,  pyrexia,  pain  and 
fatigue. 
2.3.3.  Discussion 
The  CHMP  considered  that  in  general,  the  most  common  adverse  events  identified  in  the  paediatric 
MS population in the REPLAY retrospective cohort study and following review of the case in the Global 
Drug Safety database (injection site reactions, flu-like symptoms and liver enzyme elevations) were 
similar to the ones reported in adult MS population treated with Rebif.  
Serious adverse events of epilepsy, convulsion and suicidal ideation reported in the REPLAY study as 
well  as  post-marketing  Global  Drug  Safety  database  were  previously  reported  also  in  the  adult  MS 
population. 
In  summary,  no  new  safety  concerns  were  identified  in  the  REPLAY  study  or  post-marketing  Global 
Drug Safety database by the MAH, which was accepted by the CHMP. The update of sections 4.2 and 
4.8  of  the  SmPC  to  reflect  on  the  safety  in  paediatric  patients  was  considered  appropriate  and 
relevant to patients and prescribers.  
2.4.  Changes to the Product Information 
The  MAH  proposed  the  following  changes  to  the  Product  Information  (PI),  to  which  the  CHMP 
agreed: 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Rebif in adolescents aged 12 to 16 years have not yet been established. 
Currently  available  safety  data  are  described  in  section 4.8  but  no  recommendation  on  a  posology 
can be made. 
No formal clinical trials or pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in children or adolescents. 
However,  a  paediatric  retrospective  cohort  study  collected  safety  data  with  Rebif  from  medical 
records  in  children  (n=52)  and  adolescents  (n=255).  The  results  of  this  study  suggest  that  the 
safety profile in children (2 to 11 years old) and in adolescents (12 to 17 years old) receiving Rebif 
22  micrograms  or  44  micrograms  subcutaneous  three  times  per  week  is  similar  to  that  seen  in 
adults. 
The  safety  and  efficacy  of  Rebif  in  children  below  12 years  of  age  have  not  yet  been  established. 
Only very limited data are available. Rebif should not be used in this age group. 
The  safety  and  efficacy  of  Rebif  in  children  below  2  years  of  age  have  not  been  established.  Rebif 
should not be used in this age group. 
Section 4.8 of the SmPC 
Paediatric population 
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 9/11 
 
 
 
 
 
No formal clinical trials or pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in children or adolescents. 
However,  limited  published  Limited  safety  data  suggest  that  the  safety  profile  in  children  and 
adolescents  from  12  to  17  16 years  of  age  receiving  Rebif 22 micrograms  or  44  micrograms  
subcutaneously three times per weekly is similar to that seen in adults.  
Package Leaflet 
Use in children and teenagers (2 to 17 years old) 
No  formal  clinical  studies  have  been  conducted  in  children  or  teenagers.  However  there  is  some 
clinical data available suggesting that the safety profile in children and teenagers receiving Rebif 22 
micrograms or Rebif 44 micrograms three times per week is similar to that seen in adults.   
Use in children (below 2 years of age) 
Rebif is not recommended for use in children below 2 years of age. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
The CHMP considered that the changes introduced with this type II variation are acceptable and that 
the overall benefit-risk balance of Rebif remains favourable. 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable 
and therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change(s): 
Variation(s) requested 
C.I.4 
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new quality, 
preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Type 
II 
Update  of  sections  4.2  and  4.8  of  the  SmPC  in  order  to  add  safety  information  relevant  to  the 
paediatric population. The Package Leaflet was updated accordingly. 
The  requested  variation  proposed  amendments  to  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and 
Package Leaflet. 
5.  EPAR changes 
The EPAR module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Update  of  sections  4.2  and  4.8  of  the  SmPC  in  order  to  add  safety  information  relevant  to  the 
paediatric population. The Package Leaflet was updated accordingly. 
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 10/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary 
The MAH performed a retrospective cohort study of Rebif use in pediatric MS patients (2-17 years) 
and  conducted  a  review  of  paediatric cases  captured  in  the  company  Global Drug  Safety  database. 
Consequently,  with  this  type  II  variation  the  Product  Information  was  updated  to  add  information 
relevant to the paediatric population. The following text has been included to the Package Leaflet: 
Use in children and teenagers (2 to 17 years old) 
No  formal  clinical  studies  have  been  conducted  in  children  or  teenagers.  However  there  is  some 
clinical data available suggesting that the safety profile in children and teenagers receiving Rebif 22 
micrograms or Rebif 44 micrograms three times per week is similar to that seen in adults.   
Use in children (below 2 years of age) 
Rebif is not recommended for use in children below 2 years of age. 
Assessment report  
EMA/176383/2014  
Page 11/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
