Summary of the Risk Management Plan for Rebif® (Interferon beta-1a) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Rebif®. The RMP details important 
risks of Rebif®, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Rebif®'s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Summary of Important updates to the RMP: 
Reclassification of important identified risks, important potential risks, missing information and 
events under close monitoring for removal and addition as safety concerns. 
Rebif®'s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Rebif® should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Rebif® should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns  or changes to the current ones  will be included in  updates  of Rebif®'s 
RMP. 
I.
The Medicine and What it is used for
Rebif® (Initiation Pack & Rebif® 44) is authorised for the treatment of: 
• Patients with a single demyelinating event with an active inflammatory process, if alternative
diagnoses  have  been  excluded,  and  if  they  are  determined  to  be  at  high  risk  of  developing
clinically definite MS.
• Patients with relapsing MS.
Rebif® (Rebif® 22) is authorized for the treatment of patients with relapsing MS (see SmPC for 
the full indication). It contains Interferon-β-1a as the active substance and it is given by injection 
in cartridge or in pre-filled pen/ pre-filled syringe. 
Further information  about the evaluation of  Rebif®’s benefits  can  be found in Rebif®’s EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage link to product’s EPAR summary landing page on the EMA webpage. 
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise
or Further Characterise the Risks
Important risks of Rebif®, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Rebif®'s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;  
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  -  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may  affect the safe use of Rebif® is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  Rebif®  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Rebif®. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Missing information 
Use during 2nd and 3rd trimester of pregnancy 
List of missing information  
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
Missing information: Use during 2nd and 3rd trimester of pregnancy 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine risk communication: 
EU-SmPC, Section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation)  
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures to 
address the risk: 
EU-SmPC section 4.6: If clinically needed, the use of Rebif may be considered 
during pregnancy.  
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Legal status: 
 
 
 
Missing information: Use during 2nd and 3rd trimester of pregnancy 
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted to physicians experienced in the treatment of MS. 
Additional risk minimisation: 
None 
Post-authorisation Development Plan 
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
II.C 
II.C.1 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Rebif®. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in the Post-authorisation Development Plan 
Study short name and title: 
Drug utilization study in pregnancy (exposure in 2nd and 3rd trimester) 
Rationale and study objectives: 
Analysis of 948 pregnancy outcomes from the European Interferon-beta Pregnancy Registry and 
of  cohorts  from  the  Nordic  Registers  Pregnancy  Study  [EUPAS13054]  indicated  that  the 
prevalence  of  both  major  congenital  anomalies  in  live  births  and  spontaneous  abortions  were 
within  the  background  rate  of  both  the  untreated  MS  population  and  the  general  population. 
However, most of these available data correspond to exposure during 1st trimester of pregnancy, 
the period of most vulnerability due to organogenesis. 
To further address the remaining uncertainty for exposure during 2nd and 3rd trimesters, a first stage 
of study is planned to evaluate IFN-beta utilization among pregnant women in Sweden and Finland 
using a staggered approach at 3 years and, if needed, 5 years following label implementation using 
aggregate-level data.  
•  Evaluation  of  interferon-beta  utilization  among  pregnant  women  with  MS  in  Sweden  and 
Finland at 3 years and, if needed, 5 years following label implementation using aggregate level 
data 
•  Evaluation of trends in drug utilization (DU) patterns in the target population before and after 
label implementation. 
Aggregate data analysis at 3 years and, if needed, 5 years will inform an overall assessment of 
whether it is appropriate and feasible to proceed with the second stage, full study on the effect on 
pregnancy outcomes of IFN exposure during 2nd and 3rd trimester of pregnancy using individual 
level data, based on the observed pattern of IFN beta use among pregnant women.  
 
