SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
I  This module reflects the initial scientific discussion and scientific discussion on procedures, 
which have been finalised before 1 March 2004. For scientific information on procedures after 
this date, please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Multiple  sclerosis  (MS)  is  characterised  by  chronic  patchy  inflammation  of  the  CNS  with 
demyelination and gliosis (scarring). Although the aetiology of the disorder is unknown, immunology 
abnormalities are considered to be important in its pathogenesis. 
The characteristics of the clinical course of MS may be classified into four categories: 
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
Relapsing/remitting  form  (approximately  65%  of  the  patients)  with  attacks  of  neurologic 
dysfunction attributable to central nervous system plaques that resolve over weeks to months. 
Relapsing/progressive form (about 15% of the patients) who have clinical exacerbations of the 
neurologic dysfunction with residual disability; 
A chronic progressive form from onset. 
A  silent  form,  in  which  the  disease  remains  inactive  for  years  after  one  or  two  exacerbations 
with or without residual disability. 
These  clinical  categories  are  not  fixed  and  patients  may  change  from  category  during  the  course  of 
their disease. 
Therapy  for  MS  can  be  symptomatic  treatment,  treatment  of  the  acute  relapse,  and  therapy  to 
favourably alter the natural history of the disease by reducing relapse rate and progression. Effective 
symptomatic  treatments  are  available  to  alleviate  common  symptoms  such  as  spasticity,  bladder 
disturbances,  sexual  dysfunction,  ataxia,  pain,  and  weakness.  Acute  relapses  are  often  treated  with 
corticosteroids. 
Treatment for reducing the frequency of exacerbations has been based so far on the use of immuno-
suppressants; corticoids and ACTH have not proven to be efficacious. 
Interferons,  a  family  of  naturally  occurring  proteins,  are  cytokines  that  mediate  antiviral, 
antiproliferative and immunomodulatory activities.  
It  is  unknown  if  these  mechanisms  of  action  of  the  interferons  mediate  the  therapeutic  effect  in 
multiple sclerosis because the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis itself is not yet well known. 
Rebif  contains  recombinant  interferon  beta-1a,  which  is  a  glycoprotein  with  the  same  primary 
structure as that of natural human interferon beta.  
Rebif is formulated as solution for injection in 1 ml glass pre-filled syringes. Rebif is available in two 
strengths: 22 micrograms and 44 micrograms.  The recommended posology of Rebif is 44 micrograms 
given three times per week by subcutaneous injection.  Rebif 22 micrograms, also given three times 
per week by subcutaneous injection, is recommended for patients who cannot tolerate the higher dose 
in view of the treating specialist. (see section 4.2 of SPC). For Rebif 44 micrograms see sections 6, 7 
of this document. 
Rebif  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  multiple  sclerosis  and  with  2  or  more  relapses 
within the last two years.  Efficacy has not been demonstrated in patients with secondary progressive 
multiple sclerosis without ongoing relapsing activity.  
Treatment  should  be  initiated  under  supervision  of  a  physician  experienced  in  the  treatment  of  the 
disease. 
1/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects 
Composition of the product 
Rebif  is  available  in  two  strengths  (22  and  44  µg)  and  is  presented  in  liquid  form  as  solution  for 
injection,  with  human  serum  albumin  (HSA),  mannitol  and  sodium  acetate  as  auxiliary  substances. 
HSA is added as a stabiliser and to prevent adsorption to glass or plastic tubing. 
Rebif  is  provided  as  0.5  ml  solution  for  injection,  in  Type  I  glass  (Ph.Eur.)  1  ml  pre-filled  syringes 
with  bromobutyl  plunger  stoppers  (Ph.  Eur.).  The  product  is  available  as  a  package  of  1,  3  or  12 
individual doses. 
Method of preparation 
Rebif is typically manufactured in the 10L - 75 L scale. With the exception of the filling step, which is 
performed at ambient temperature, the manufacture of the finished product is performed at 2-8°C. 
Adequate tests are utilised for in-process control during formulation and filling of the product. The test 
schedules include determinations of pH, bio-burden, extractable volume as well as tests to control the 
integrity of filters used for sterile filtration. 
The  procedures  used  for  preparation  of  excipient  solution  as  well  as compounding,  sterile  filtration, 
and filling of the product are satisfactorily validated. 
Control of starting material 
Specifications and routine tests of the active substance 
Each production batch of the active substance is tested according to the intermediate specifications for: 
Identity i.e. SDS-PAGE, N-terminal amino acid sequence, peptide map, RP-HPLC, carbohydrate map, 
and iso-electric point. 
Purity 
a) 
b) 
c) 
clarity, coloration and pH, which are tested according to Ph. Eur. 
degradation, aggregation, and by-products (RP-HPLC, SE-HPLC, and SDS-PAGE) 
impurities, DNA, host cell derived proteins, residual solvents (ELISA, GLC, IE-HPLC) 
d)  microbial contamination (Ph. Eur.) and endotoxins (LAL) 
Potency, i.e. content of interferon-ß (RP-HPLC), activity (cytopathic effect). 
All non Ph. Eur. methods have been satisfactorily validated and the specifications according to which 
the tests are performed are justified by batch data as well as data obtained in clinical trials. 
Development genetics 
Recombinant IFN-ß is produced in dehydrofolate reductase (DHFR) deficient Chinese Hamster Ovary 
(CHO)  cells  transfected  with  two  plasmids,  one  carrying  the  interferon  coding  region,  the  other  the 
sequences encoding mouse DHFR. Both plasmids are integrated into the host cell genome. The DHFR 
gene  acts  as  a  marker  for  the  selection  of  transfected  cells,  but  is  also  required  to  allow  for 
methotrexate treatment and amplification of the cloned sequences. 
Cell Bank System 
Inconsistencies in the documentation on the history of the producer cell line identified in the primary 
submission  were  clarified  in  time  of  the  processes,  and  data  was  submitted  showing  genetic  and 
phenotypic  stability  of  the  Interferon-ß  producing  cell  line.  The  consistency  of  the  fermentation 
process was shown for a time that exceeds the time period used in production. 
Production 
Cell  culture  and  harvesting  of  crude  Interferon-ß  is  carried  out  in  bioreactors  and  supported  by 
growth-promoting microcarriers. Relevant in-process testing controls the propagation of the working 
seed,  the  seeds,  the  cells  in  bioreactors  as  well  as  the  harvest.  All  raw  materials  used  during 
fermentation are of acceptable quality. 
2/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purification 
The  filtered  and  pooled  crude  harvests  are  purified  by  affinity  chromatography,  ion  exchange 
chromatography,  reversed-phase  liquid  chromatography  and  size  exclusion  chromatography.  Three 
ultrafiltration or microfiltration steps are also included in the down-stream process. 
Characterisation 
The  fermentation  and  purification  procedures  give  an  end  product  with  consistent  quality  and 
characteristics from batch to batch. The active substance has a primary amino acid structure consistent 
with that of Interferon-ß obtained from human fibroblasts as confirmed by full amino acid sequencing. 
There  is  one  potential  N-glycosylation  site  on  Interferon-ß  and  evidence  was  presented  that 
carbohydrate  chain  is  linked  to  Asn-80.  The  carbohydrate  side  chain  structure  was  analysed  by  LC 
separation followed by FAB-MS analysis.  
The  microheterogeneity  of  the  purified  product  was  studied  using  Western  Blotting  and  iso-electric 
focusing.  The  presence  of  degradation  products  was  monitored  by  RP-HPLC  and  formation  of 
aggregates/oligomers was measured by SE-HPLC. 
The  secondary  structure  was  studied  by  identification  of  the  disulphide  bond  between  Cys31  and 
Cys141 by peptide mapping after enzymatic digestion.  
Using  both  bioassay  and  immunoassay  methods  consistent  specific  activity  of  Interferon-ß  bulk 
batches was demonstrated. 
Control of the finished product 
During  the  evaluation  process,  acceptable  limits  for  the  control  test  routine  to  be  carried  out  were 
established. 
Stability 
The  stability  of  the  finished  product  is  monitored  in  real-time  studies.  The  approved  shelf-life  is  24 
months. In addition to analyses of general features, parameters such as content (RP-HPLC), antiviral 
activity  and  sterility  are  studied.  Furthermore,  new  methods  were  developed  for  monitoring 
contamination  with  dimers/oligomers  as  well  as  oxidised  forms  of  Interferon-ß  in  the  presence  of 
HSA. 
Follow-up measures to be fulfilled by the marketing authorisation holder 
The  company,  after  having been consulted,  agreed to meet the commitment  to submit to the EMEA 
within  the  defined  timeframe,  further  information  requested  by  the  CPMP  on  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  aspects.  (Undertaking  signed  from  Ares-Serono  (Europe)  Ltd,  dated  16  December 
1997). 
Manufacturing authorisations/inspection status 
The  EU  inspector  team  has  inspected  the  manufacturer  responsible  for  the  production  of  the  active 
substance,  Interpharm  laboratories  Ltd,  Science-Based  Industrial  Park,  Kiryat  Weizmann,  76110, 
Ness-Ziona  Israel,  on  23-24  July  1997  with  a  favourable  outcome.  An  additional  alternative 
manufacturer for the active substance, Laboratoires Serono S.A. Vevey, Switzerland, was authorised 
by  Decision  C(2001)567.  The EU inspector  team has inspected this  Swiss site  on 27-29 November 
2000 with a favourable outcome. 
The Serono site at Bari, Italy, responsible for batch release in the EEA, has been inspected during the 
assessments  of  Gonal-F  and  no  further  inspections  are  considered  necessary.  Manufacturing 
Authorisation  issued  on  14  January  1995  by  the  Ministero  Della  Sanita’,  Direzione  Generale  del 
Servizio Farmaceutico, Via della Civiltà’ Romana 7, Roma Italia  
Vetter Pharma - Fertigung GmbH & Co, Schützenstrasse 99/101, 88212 Ravensburg in Germany: is 
the  manufacturer  responsible  for  operations  from  formulation  to  packaging.  Manufacturing 
authorisation was issued on 10 May 1991 by the Regierungspräsidium Tübingen, Konrad-Adenauer-
Strasse  20,  D-7400  Tübingen.  .  Industria  Farmaceutica  Serono  SpA,  Zona  Industriale  di  Modugno, 
Bari,  Italy  has  also  been  approved  as  an  additional  alternative  manufacturer  for  operations  from 
formulation to packaging pursuant to a variation approved on 17 August 2001.   
3/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
A number of published studies detailing antiviral; antiproliferative and immunomodulatory effects of 
hIFN-beta were submitted to support the concept of interferon-beta therapy in multiple sclerosis. Very 
few  of  the  published  studies,  however,  involved  the  administration  of  Rebif.  Subsequent  to  the  first 
assessment,  the  applicant  submitted  data  on  the  in  vitro  comparison  of  Rebif  and  native  hIFN-β  in 
terms  of  antiviral  activity  using  the  WISH/VSV  cytopathic  effect  inhibition  assay.  A  corresponding 
comparison  of  antiproliferative  activities  of  the  two  substances  was  performed  using  four  different 
cell-lines (WISH, A549, Hs294-T and Hs695-T). The results obtained lend some support to the claim 
of bioequivalence between Rebif and hIFN-β. 
Short  term  in  vivo  studies  in  cynomolgus  monkeys,  submitted  as  a  response  to  questions  from  the 
CPMP, have shown that Rebif not only increases serum levels of the dynamic markers, neopterin and 
2´,5´-OAS, but that TNF synthesis may be suppressed under certain experimental conditions.  
A formal study of the general pharmacodynamics of Rebif was initially carried out in the rat which is 
not a species responsive to Rebif. Investigations of the general pharmaco-dynamics of Rebif, including 
studies of CNS-effects, were subsequently carried out in the Cynomolgus monkeys. At a dose of 20 
MIU/kg  SC,  a  slight  increase  in  body  temperature  was  noted  in  all  animals  from  2  to  5  hours  after 
administration. Otherwise, the examined parameters were not markedly affected by up to 20 MIU/kg 
of Rebif. ECG-parameters have been recorded in toxicity studies in Cynomolgus monkey without any 
indication of cardiac toxicity.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Single  dose  studies  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  have  shown  elimination  half-lives  of  2-6  and  5-8  hrs 
after IV and SC dosing, respectively. The estimated bioavailability after SC administration, the route 
used in the longest toxicity study, varied between 0.12 and 0.26. 
In a repeated dose study with SC administration in the same species, an accumulation index (over  
7 days of daily dosing) of 2.7 was estimated. This increase in exposure with time was shown to result 
in a corresponding increase in the pharmacodynamic markers neopterin and 2´,5´-OAS.  
Toxicity studies 
Studies  of  single-dose  toxicity  in  the  rat  and  Cynomolgus  monkey  did  not  reveal  important  toxic 
effects.  Thirteen-weeks  IV  and  IM  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and 
Cynomolgus  monkeys  with  doses  up  to  1.0  MIU/kg/d.  Antibodies  to  HSA  and  rhIFN-β  occurred  in 
both  species  but  antibody  formation  tended  to  be  greater  after  IM  than  IV  administration.  Only 
monkeys exhibited significant elevation of rectal temperature.  
ECG  revealed  some  alterations  of  ventricular  conductance  and  repolarisation  that  is  considered  to 
reflect spontaneous pathology in monkeys.  
In a 26-week repeated dose study in Cynomolgus monkeys with SC doses of 1, 3 or 10 MIU/kg/d, no 
dose related general clinical signs were noted. However, a moderately (not significantly) reduced body 
weight was noted in high-dose females. Local reactions at injection sites were seen at the two higher 
dose-levels.  Rectal  temperature  rose  moderately  but  apparently  dose-related  after  the  first 
administration.  Neutralising  antibodies  were  observed  at  the  5th  and  12th  week  of  the  treatment 
period.  At  12  weeks  of  dosing,  analysed  samples  were  moderately  to  markedly  positive.  No  gross 
pathology  was  observed  apart  from  at  the  injection  sites,  where  dose-related  changes  were  seen. 
Parallel  inflammatory  changes  were  noted  in  the  histo-pathological  examinations.  Interstitial 
inflammatory changes in the testes occurred in some high-dose animals. 
Reproduction toxicity 
One  reproduction  study  was  performed  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  to  assess  both  abortifacient  and 
teratogenic  activities  of  Rebif.  There  was  a  high  prenatal  loss  in  animals  treated  with  0.2  MIU/kg/d 
during days 90-150 but not in the higher dose groups when compared with pregnancy loss in controls. 
4/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further studies to investigate other effects on reproduction have not been conducted. Since according 
to  the  proposed  SPC,  Rebif  should  not  be  administered  in  cases  of  pregnancy  or  lactation,  further 
reproduction studies are not considered necessary.  
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity 
A battery of tests for genotoxicity has given negative results, indicating that Rebif lacks a genotoxic 
potential. Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted. Although a limited antibody formation to 
Rebif  might  not  preclude  a  meaningful  carcinogenicity  bioassay,  a  suitable  responsive  model  is 
lacking. 
It  is  concluded  that  the  preclinical  documentation  submitted  with  the  initial  application  and  in 
response  to  the  CPMP  questions  is  of  sufficient  quality  and  quantity  to support the clinical efficacy 
and safety documentation. No special concerns have been identified that is not adequately covered in 
the SPC. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
One  trial,  recruiting  a  total  of  72  patients,  thereof  68  treated  with  Rebif,  was  initially  submitted  to 
support  the  indication.  The  MRI  results  were  interpreted  as  indicative  of  activity,  the  magnitude  of 
which, however, was impossible to estimate in both absolute and relative terms. In addition, the safety 
database was very limited. A benefit risk assessment was therefore impossible to conduct. These major 
objections, together with the list of questions to be addressed were forwarded to the applicant in the 
CPMP Consolidated list of questions. 
In addressing the major objection and questions of the CPMP the applicant submitted the results of a 
formal  phase  III  trial,  comparing  placebo,  6  MIU  and  12  MIU  three  times  a  week.  From  the  data 
provided, the proposed dose to be used in MS was determined to be 6MIU (22µg) three times weekly. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single dose study 
Data from one single dose study with the administration of 6 MIU Rebif was initially provided, thus 
there was no information as to dose proportionality or possible time dependency. One multiple dose 
study  was  submitted  in  protocol  form  and  the  final  report  from  this  study  was  later  submitted  in 
response to the CPMP list of questions.  
The absolute bioavailability, based on the results from the initially submitted, single dose study of SC 
Rebif was found to be low, of the order of 15%. This was initially thought to be due to sequestration 
or catabolism at the site of administration. The low sensitivity of immunoassay for the determination 
of interferon plasma levels and the similarity of the 2’, 5’-OAS levels after IV and SC administration 
of the same dose, provide alternative explanations. The seemingly low bioavailability after SC and IM 
administration  may  also  be  partly  due  to  lymphatic  uptake  and  subsequent  slow  release  into  the 
plasma. 
In  common  with  other  protein  drugs,  no  recovery  study  has  been  performed  and  there  is  no 
information as to the route(s) of excretion of Rebif in man. This has been handled in the SPC section 
4.4  by  recommending  that  caution  should  be  used  and  close  monitoring  considered  when 
administering  Interferon  beta-1a  to  patients  with  severe  renal  and  hepatic  failure.  However,  the 
influence of less than severe liver or renal disease cannot be assessed without more precise knowledge 
of the excretion route(s).  
In response to the CPMP list of questions, the company submitted a multiple dose, open-label, three 
Panel study in 28 healthy male and female volunteers. Each volunteer participated in one Panel of the 
study. 
• 
Panel 1. Eight volunteers (4 male, 4 female) received three single increasing IV doses of IFN-
β1a (6 MIU/22 µg, 12 MIU/44 µg and 18 MIU/66 µg) one week apart. 
5/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Panel 2. Twelve volunteers (6 male and 6 female) received three 18 MIU/66 µg doses of IFN-
β1a (IV, IM and SC) one week apart in a crossover latin square design. 
Panel 3. Eight volunteers (4 male, 4 female) received four SC injections of 18 MIU/66 µg doses 
IFN-β1a  at  48  hours  intervals.  These  volunteers  also  took  a  drug  cocktail  consisting  of 
mephenytoin 100 mg, dextromethorphan 25 mg, midazolam 7.5 mg, and, soluble coffee 2 g, in 
order to assess drug interactions. The drug cocktail was taken the night before on the pre-study 
visit, and on the third day after the last drug injection. 
Multiple blood samples were taken for the measurement of serum IFN-β1a after each dose. Serum 
β2-microglobulin,  2-5  synthetase  activity,  and  neopterin  concentrations  were  measured  after  the  last 
dose in Panels 1 and 2, and after every dose in Panel 3. 
Pharmacokinetic data analysis  
Both  a  non-compartmental  approach  and  a  population  approach  have  been  used to  analyse the IFN-
β1a  data.  Due  to  the  observation  of  sustained  plasma  levels  after  the  last  dose  in  Panel  3,  blood 
samples  taken for the analysis of pharmacodynamic markers were also analysed for IFN-β1a. These 
data were used only in the population analysis. 
A non-compartmental approach was used to analyse the markers of pharmacodynamic activity. 
Bioavailability of IFN-β1a was found to be about 0.28 (range  0.06 to  0.62) and  0.37 (range 0.08 to 
0.8) after SC and IM administration, respectively. Absorption appears to be the dominant factor that 
influences disposition. 
The half-lives were inestimable in many cases, as the data were not collected over a sufficiently long 
period.  The  model  dependent  analysis  of  all  data  combined  estimated  the  terminal  half-life-to  is  21 
hours. A log-linear regression of the extra data obtained after the last dose in panel 3 gave rise to mean 
half-life of 85 hours after SC administration, which was very variable (51 %CV). 
Dose  proportionality:  The  results  from  Panel  1  indicated  that  the  area  under  the  curve  (AUC) 
(normalised for dose) was significantly smaller after the 6 MIU/22µ g administrations. These results, 
seemingly  indicative  of  dose  dis-proportionality,  are  most  likely  the  consequence  of  too  low 
sensitivity of the analytical method. 
Time  dependency:  The  accumulation  factor  calculated  from  AUC  was  2.4±0.3.  There  is  some 
evidence of prolonged half-life after the multiple dose SC injections. Whether this is a time dependent 
phenomenon,  a  “flip-flop”  phenomenon  or  is  due  to  methodological  difficulties  is  impossible  to 
assess. 
As regards pharmacodynamic markers, no period effect (time effect) was found in Panel 3 for 
2’, 5’ -OAS activity whether measured in serum or in PBMCs. Period effects were, however, observed 
for neopterin (p=0.0013) and beta2-microglobulin (p=0.0035).  
Overall, these results are interpreted as indicative of accumulation after repeated dose. 
The interaction part of the study did not reveal any relevant effects on cytochrome P450. However, a 
prolonged  study  period  is  considered  essential  to  refute  previously  observed  effects  of  type  I 
interferons. Clinically, interferons have been shown to alter the pharmacokinetics and/or metabolism 
of other drugs (AZT, theophylline). This information has been presented in the SPC where it has been 
stated  that  interferons  can  decrease  the  metabolism  of  compounds  metabolised  by  the  cytochrome 
P450 system. 
No pharmacokinetic information has been submitted in patients with antibodies, whether neutralising 
or  not.  However,  in  response  to  the  first  list  of  questions,  dynamic  data  have  been  provided.  In 
summary,  it  was  demonstrated  that  in  patients  with  in  vitro  neutralising  antibodies,  the  dynamic 
response to Rebif in vivo, as measured by beta-2 microglobulin and neopterin, was attenuated. 
Multiple Sclerosis 
Exploratory trial 
6/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One  exploratory  trial,  recruiting  a  total  of  72  patients,  thereof  68  treated  with  Rebif,  has  been 
submitted to support this indication. A 6-month observation run-in was followed by randomisation and 
open treatment with 3 or 9 MIU, s.c., three times weekly for 6 months. Compared with baseline, MS 
activity, as measured by relapse rates and MRI, decreased significantly during therapy (50-70%), but 
no statistically significant difference between dosage groups was seen.  
Phase III formal study (Study Protocol 6789) (see also sections 6 and 7) 
A  study  report  from  a  conventional,  pivotal  phase  III  study  conducted  in  patients  with  relapsing 
remitting MS has been submitted. In this dose-comparative, placebo controlled trial; clinical activity 
has been documented in endpoints considered to be clinically relevant. In response to the second list of 
questions, additional information and analyses have been provided. 
Altogether  560  patients  with  relapsing-remitting  MS  (Clinically  definite  or  laboratory-supported 
definite  MS,  EDSS:  0-5.0,  at  least  2  exacerbations  in  the  2  years  prior  to,  but  stable  for  at  least  4 
weeks  before  study  entry)  were  included  in  this  randomised,  placebo  controlled,  dose-comparative, 
parallel-group  study.  There  were  22  participating  centres  from  Europe,  Canada  and  Australia, 
enrolling between (inclusive) 19 and 40 patients each.  
Most of the trial centres were audited by the sponsor for the verification of the compliance to Clinical 
Good  Practice  rules.  The  CPMP  also  required  an  independent  verification  of  some  trial  centres  that 
was co-ordinated by the EMEA: the assessment of the GCP verification is presented in the final part of 
the assessment of the clinical package. 
Rebif was administered subcutaneously three times a week for 24 months at doses of 6MIU, 12MIU, 
or  matching  placebo.  Initially  dosages  were  gradually  increased  over  4  to  8  weeks.  In  patients 
consenting to participate, an extension phase followed, for further 24 months of treatment following 
the initial placebo controlled phase.  
The designated primary efficacy endpoint was the effect on number of exacerbations. An exacerbation 
was  defined  as;  the  appearance  of  a  new  symptom  or  worsening  of  an  old  symptom,  attributable  to 
MS,  accompanied  by  an  appropriate  new  neurologic  abnormality  or  focal  neurological  dysfunction 
lasting at least 24 hours in the absence of fever, and proceeded by stability or improvement for at least 
30  days.  Patients  were  instructed  to  inform  the  study  centre  within  48  hours  of  the  onset  of  an 
exacerbation and a visit was to be arranged as quickly as possible.  
Secondary,  exacerbation  related  endpoints  were:  time  to  first/second  exacerbation,  proportion 
remaining exacerbation-free at 1 and 2 years, duration and severity of exacerbation.  
For  grading  of  severity,  the  Scripps  NRS  score  was  to  be  used  (change  in  NRS  score,  mild  =  0-7, 
moderate  =  8-14,  severe  >  14).  In  case  of  missing  NRS  data  from  date  of  maximum  disability, 
anamnestic ADL information was used for grading (mild = no effect on ADL, moderate = significant 
effect, severe = hospitalisation). The use of steroids and hospitalisation for MS were also presented in 
the study report.  
Disability  (secondary  endpoint),  as  measured  by  EDSS,  was  determined  by  a  treatment  blinded, 
evaluating physician. Progression was defined as an increase in EDSS of 1.0 point or more for at least 
3 months (or 0.5 point between EDSS 6 and 7).  
All  patients  were  to  undergo  baseline  and  biannual  proton  density  (PD)/T2  weighted  MRI  scans. 
Patients from 7 centres (n = 205) underwent monthly PD/T2 and T1 weighted, Gadolinium enhanced 
scans  until  the  end  of  month  9  of  therapy.  At  one  centre  (n  =  39)  monthly  scans  (T2  and  T1)  were 
conducted until the end of 24 months of treatment. Techniques and MRI endpoints were meticulously 
standardised and scans were read, blinded for treatment group, centralised, in chronological order. The 
total  area  of  abnormal  plaques  seen  on  T2  weighted  scans,  defined  burden  of  disease  (BOD).  BOD 
was  presented  as  change  from  baseline.  In  patients  undergoing  monthly  scans,  disease  activity  was 
defined as a new, enlarging or recurrent T2 lesion or a Gd enhancing lesion.  
Results 
Of the 560 patients randomised, 58 patients stopped treatment before 24 months, but 31 of these were 
followed according to the protocol. Thus, full 24 months data was available on 95% of the enrolled 
7/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients. Twenty-seven patients did not agree on, or stopped, the planned follow-up before the end of 
24  months  (“lost  to  follow  up”).  The  distribution  of  completers,  etc.  was  similar  amongst  the  3 
treatment groups. The most commonly cited reasons for discontinuation were “patient decision” (26), 
adverse events (17), pregnancy (6), and progressive disease (4). As regards adverse events (AE), there 
were  6 withdrawals due to AE in the low dose-group and 9 in the high-dose group. 
All randomised patients were included in the efficacy analyses and those “lost to follow up” up to the 
last study visit (27/560 patients, median time on study 350 days). Protocol deviations are detailed in 
the  study  report,  but  are  not  presented  here,  as  they  are  considered  unlikely  to  influence  study 
outcome. 
The  proportion  of  females  was  slightly  higher  in  the  placebo  group,  3:1  vs.  2:1  in  the  IFN  groups. 
Median time since onset of MS was about 5 years (slightly longer in the 12 MIU group) and median 
number  of  exacerbations  within  2  years  of  entry  was  3  in  all  treatment  groups.  Also  as  regards  the 
pattern  of  areas  of  CNS  involvement  at  baseline,  patient  groups  were  similar,  e.g.  spinal  cord  signs 
(80%), brain stem (45%), optic nerve (53%), etc. Median (and mean) EDSS at baseline was  
2.5,  corresponding  to  “minimal  disability  in  two  functional  systems”  and  similar  in  all  groups  of 
patients.  
Efficacy 
Exacerbation related endpoints 
The reduction in relapse between placebo and IFN 6 MIU (- 29%) and 12 MIU (- 32%) was highly 
significant over 2 years of treatment (p = 0.0002 and < 0.0001, log linear model adjusted for centre 
and time on study). Similarly, a highly significant difference was also seen at 1 year (p < 0.0001).  
The proportion of exacerbation free patients after 1 year increased from 24% (placebo) to 38%  
(6 MIU) and 45% (12 MIU) (6 MIU vs. placebo: p = 0.0022, 12 MIU vs. placebo: p < 0.0001, 6 MIU 
vs. 12 MIU: p = 0.15, logistic regression taking centre into account).  
After 2 years corresponding figures were 15%, 26%, and 32%, still significant compared with placebo 
(  6MIU  vs.  placebo  p-value  0.0140;  12MIU  vs  placebo  p-value  <0.0001)  and  borderline  in  the 
comparison 6MIU vs. 12 MIU, p = 0.08. 
Time to first exacerbation was also prolonged in the active treatment groups from median 4.5 months 
to median 7.6 and 9.6 months, 6 MIU and 12 MIU, respectively (highly significant vs. placebo in the 
Cox  proportional  hazard  model  taking  centre  into  account,  6  MIU  vs.  12  MIU  p  =  0.16).  Time  to 
second exacerbation was similarly prolonged. 
Severity of exacerbations. There was  a significant  reduction  in the mean number of mild, moderate, 
and severe exacerbations for both treatment doses. 
No difference in the duration of exacerbations was seen (mean 47 days in all treatment groups). 
Given  the  definition  of  exacerbation  (see  above)  interferon-induced  fever  has  been  considered  as  a 
possible  confounding  factor  in  the  assessment  of  relapse  rate.  However,  out  of  the  total  number  of 
exacerbations observed, a very small number coincided with fever and the investigators as “pseudo-
exacerbations”  classified  a  small  number.  Hence,  IFN  induced  fever  does  not  appear  to  be  a 
confounding factor of importance in the assessment of exacerbation rate.  
Disability related endpoints  
Using  the  protocol  definition  of  deterioration  in  disability,  a  significant  prolongation  of  time  to 
confirmed progression is observed (6 MIU vs. Placebo: p = 0.04, 12 MIU vs. Placebo: p = 0.01, Cox 
model,  median  not  reached,  but  first  quartile  358  vs.  554  vs.  638  days  for  placebo,  6  MIU  and  12 
MIU; respectively), however the clinical relevance of these findings warranted further evidence. The 
company submitted more data in the frame of the application for the line extension for Rebif 44 mcg, 
which  are  discussed  in  the  sections  6  and  7  of  this  document.    The  results  were  considered  by  the 
CPMP as of clinical relevance. 
MRI analyses 
The mean number of active lesions at baseline was rather similar in the three treatment groups (mean 
2.0-2.5).  The  mean  number  of  active  lesions  per  patient  per  scan  differed  between  treatment  groups 
8/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
over  the  9-month  period  of  monthly  scans;  there  were  a  total  of  198  patients  who  qualified  for  the 
analyses, 66 in the placebo group, 64 in the 6 MIU Rebif group and 68 in the 12 MIU Rebif group.  
Mean, active lesions: 1.6, 0.8, and 0.4, placebo, 6 MIU and 12 MIU groups, respectively.  
Rebif 6 MIU or 12 MIU vs. placebo, p < 0.0001,  
Rebif 12 MIU vs. Rebif 6 MIU p = 0.16,  
ANOVA on the ranks, adjusted for centre and baseline number of active lesions.  
As  regards  burden  of  disease,  the  percent  change  from  baseline  to  12  months  differed  between 
treatment groups: The means were: + 11.6% (placebo), - 1.2% (6 MIU), and - 6.7% (12 MIU). : 
6 or 12 MIU vs. placebo, <0.0001,  
12 MIU vs. 6 MIU p = 0.1,  
ANOVA on the ranks, adjusted for centre and baseline disease burden.  
Subgroup analyses 
EDSS  ≥  4  and  spinal  cord  involvement  were  found  to  be  predictive  for  poor  outcome  (details  not 
given in the study report). EDSS progression was therefore analysed using these factors as covariates.  
In  patients  treated  with  12  MIU,  the  proportion  of  progressed  patients  was  the  same  in  patients 
entering  with  EDSS  <  or  ≥  4.  In  the  placebo  group  and  6  MIU  groups,  however,  more  patients 
progressed if baseline EDSS was ≥ 4. These data on proportion of progressed patients are essentially 
consistent with the “time to confirmed progression analyses”, i.e. time to progression was not affected 
by  baseline  EDSS  status  in  the  12  MIU  group,  while  EDSS  ≥  4  adversely  affected  outcome  in  the 
placebo and 6 MIU groups. 
There  are  safety  data  available  from  373  patients  treated  with  IFN  for  approximately  2  years.  This 
overview  is  focused  on  adverse  event  areas  reasonably  related  to  IFN  therapy  based  on  previous 
experience  from  type  I  interferons,  or  events  occurring  with  an  increased  incidence  compared  with 
placebo. 
Serious adverse events were reported in 34, 32 and 27 patients, in the groups treated with placebo, 6, 
and  12  MIU,  respectively.  Events  classified  as  “probably  related”  occurred  in  1,  2  and  4  patients 
respectively  (groups  as  previously)  while  there  were  2,  6  and  7  events  reported  as  possibly  related 
(groups  as  previously).  As  expected  AEs  known  to,  or  supposed  to  be  related  to  the  use  of  IFN, 
dominated  these  categories  (probable,  possible  related),  e.g.  depression,  lymphopenia,  and  injection 
site reactions.  
In  one  patient  (12  MIU),  pregnancy  was  diagnosed  at  week  3  and  therapy  was  withdrawn.  At  12 
weeks, no foetal heart sounds were heard and abortion was induced. In addition, one case of cataract, 
one case of acute bronchitis in a smoker, and one case of “pneumonia subsequent to influenza” (in the 
narrative “post haemophilus influenzae”) were reported as possibly related (all in IFN groups). 
Depression 
One  placebo  patient  committed  suicide,  and  suicidal  tendencies  were  reported  in  3  patients  in  each 
patient  group.  Overall,  depression  was  reported  in  more  than  20%  of  the  patients,  mostly  mild,  and 
similarly  distributed  in  the  treatment  groups  (slightly  more  often  in  the  placebo  group).  Patients  in 
English-speaking  centres  were  followed  with  psychological  questionnaires  every  6  months  (General 
Health Questionnaire, Centre for Epidemiologic Depression Mood Scale, Beck’s Hopelessness Scale). 
All  scales  indicated  borderline  status  between  “normal”  and  “mild  disorder”,  without  differences 
between treatment groups.  
Patients  with  anamnestic  severe  depressions  were  not,  according  to  the  protocol,  excluded  from  the 
study.  However,  whether  any  patients  with  a  psychiatric  history  were  actually  included  is  not  clear 
from the study report.  
Injection site reactions 
Necrosis was reported in 2 patients treated with 6 MIU and 3 patients given 12 MIU. Similarly abscess 
formation  was  reported  in  2  +  4  patients.  One  patient  in  each  IFN  group  permanently  stopped 
9/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment  due  to  injection  site  reactions.  In  all  other  patients  the  reactions  resolved  and  the  patients 
completed 2 years of therapy. 
Flu-like symptoms” 
This  syndrome  is  most  commonly  encountered  early  in  therapy.  However,  in  the  study  report,  no 
analysis taking time into account is presented and it is therefore, due to the non-specific nature of the 
symptoms,  hard  to  present  a  reasonable  overview  of  incidence,  duration  and  severity.  However, 
overall fever was  more  commonly reported  in the IFN groups, 25 and 28 % vs. 16% in the placebo 
group. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
As expected, peripheral haematology was affected by IFN treatment. Overall, lymphopenia was seen 
in  11,  20  and  29%  of  the  patients,  placebo,  6  MIU  and  12  MIU,  respectively.  Of  these  30%  were 
severe in the 12 MIU group. A dose-related reduction in granulocyte count was also observed and  
2  patients  in  the  12  MIU  group  reported  severe  granulocytopenia.  Overall  the  incidence  of 
granulocytopenia  was  4,  12  and  15%.  No  case  of  severe  thrombocytopenia  was  reported,  but  the 
overall incidence was highest in the 12 MIU group, 8%. Anaemia was seen in similar incidence in the 
placebo and the 6 MIU groups (3%), but slightly more often in the 12 MIU group (5%). 
IFN  increased  the  mean  of  ALAT,  ASAT,  and  ALP,  and  elevation  in  ALAT/ASAT  was  seen  on  at 
least  one  occasion  in  the  23%  of  the  22-mcg  patients  and  54%  of  the  44-mcg  patients.  These 
elevations were severe in 6 subjects in both IFN groups.  
Neutralising antibodies 
The  liquid  formulation  of  Rebif  was  used  in  this  study  and  the  immunogenicity  was  assessed  at 
baseline  and  every  6  months.  Samples,  collected  at  least  24  hours  after  administration  of  study 
medication,  were  first  tested  at  a  central  laboratory  for  binding  antibodies  (ELISA)  and  if  positive 
were then tested for neutralising activity utilising a standard cytopathic protection assay. Results were, 
in  the  study  report,  not  presented  as  titres  of  binding  and  neutralising  antibodies,  only  as  “positive 
patients” as regards neutralising antibodies. In the protocol, a positive patient was defined as one who 
maintained “positivity” for at least two consecutive visits.  
Given the protocol definition, 24 % of the patients in the 6 MIU group vs. 0 (placebo) and 15 % (12 
MIU) tested positive. If three or more positive results were required 14 and 11% tested positive, if four 
or  more  9  and  4%  (observe  that  during  the  study  period,  testing  were  made  at  base  line  +  every  6 
months, i.e. altogether 5 times). At least one patient showed a positive test result for the first time at 
month 24 and a number of patients at month 18. 
On the data provided by the applicant and on the evaluation of the impact of binding and neutralising 
antibodies,  the  CPMP  required  the  company  to  submit  validations  for  the  methods  of  analyses  for 
binding  and  neutralising  antibodies.  Additional  data  on  the  incidence  and  titres  of  binding  and 
neutralising antibodies over time were also requested.  
The Sponsor, in response, submitted validation reports for the assays and tables with individual patient 
data with titres for binding and neutralising antibodies (NAb). 
The antibody assays were found to be reasonably documented and validated. The biological validity of 
the in vitro testing for NAb has also been corroborated in vivo by pharmacodynamic studies showing 
an attenuated dynamic response to IFN beta in NAb+ patients. 
Overall,  high  levels  of  binding  antibodies  were  found  to  be  strongly  associated  with  positivity  for 
NAb. There also seem to be roughly two populations of NAb+ patients, “low NAb titre responders” 
with a low highest titre (below, e.g. 20 NU/ml) and in most cases transient NAb positivity and “high 
NAb titre responders” where the titre tends to increase with time on therapy. 
Thus, in patients with a highest titre below 20 NU/ml, 13/13 in the 12 MIU group and 8/10 in the 
6 MIU group lost antibody positivity while on therapy. Conversely, in patients with at least one titre 
equal to  or above 20 NU/ml, 4/49 in the 6 MIU group and 9/32  in the 12  MIU group lost antibody 
positivity. At 24 months, altogether 45/189 (thereof two with a highest titre <20) were NAb+ in the 
6 MIU group and 23/184 in the 12 MIU group (thereof none with a highest titre <20).  
10/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These  “low  NAb  titre”  and  “high  NAb  titre  responder”  categories,  albeit  somewhat  arbitrarily 
dichotomised,  are  recognised  from  other  therapeutic  areas,  e.g.  from  the  treatment  of  haemophilia 
patients with factor concentrates.  
At baseline, one patient was NAb+, and, interestingly, with a high titre (>5000) reverting to low titres 
while  on  therapy,  e.g.  a  titre  of  6  at  month  24.  One  patient  in  the  placebo  group  sero-converted  at 
month  24  to  high  titres  of  binding  and  neutralising  antibodies  (>1000).  In  no  other  placebo  patient 
were  neutralising  antibodies  detected.  Overall,  the  incidence  of  binding  antibodies  was  low  in  the 
placebo group. 
The tentative influence of NAb on the clinical activity of IFN beta in the treatment of MS is a rather 
complex issue. It is reasonable to postulate that this influence may depend on at least antibody titre, 
duration of antibody positivity, and the “phase” during which positivity occurs. The latter is due to the 
observed  decrease  in  activity  over  time  of  IFN  beta  therapy  compared  with  placebo  (measured  as 
relapse  rate,  both  in  absolute  and  relative  terms).  If  there  were  no  (“withdrawal”)  rebound 
phenomenon, the effects of NAb would thus be difficult to detect after prolonged therapy due to the 
decreased efficacy of IFN therapy per se. Based on the Betaferon experience, there also seems to be a 
hysteresis  between  the  development  of  NAb  and  the  likely  reduced  activity  of  IFN.  Whether  the 
hysteresis is due to prolonged, disease-modulating effects, or, e.g. due to slowly increasing antibody 
titres is not clear.  
In  the  small  group  of  patients  with  NAb+  for  more  than  three  consecutive  visits,  most  patients  had 
high  titres,  at  least  during  the  last  observation  periods  (months  12  or  18  to  24)  and  were  overall 
positive  for  ¾  of  the  observation  period.  Nevertheless,  there  was  no  trend  towards  reduced  overall 
activity. Thus, it was concluded that a major influence of NAb on the efficacy of Rebif was unlikely 
during the first two years of therapy that prolonged follow-up was needed and that no further analysis 
was warranted on the data available. 
No ideal way has been presented on how to analyse the relationship between NAb and MS activity. 
However, it seems reasonable to concentrate on the “high NAb titre responder” group of patients, to 
test for different cut-off titres defining periods regarded as positive (titre min, e.g. >20, or >100). It is 
also  important  to  consider  duration  of  therapy  in  the  analyses,  to  conduct  within-patient,  as  well  as 
between-group comparisons in an exploratory way and to use relapse rate, MRI changes and disability 
as activity measures.  
There  is  an  ongoing  extension  study.  This  study is  planned to continue  for at  least 2  years after the 
completion of the 24 months, placebo comparative trial. For the extension study, patients on placebo 
in the “base line study” were randomised between 6 and 12 MIU and antibodies will be analysed on a 
6 monthly basis. According to the Sponsor, effects of NAb on relapse rate, MRI changes and disability 
will be studied at the scheduled 4-year analysis and the report will be submitted in the second half of 
1999.  
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) compliance of the formal Phase III clinical study 
At  the  request  of  the  CPMP  (September  1997),  a  GCP  Inspection  was  conducted  with  a  favourable 
outcome. 
5. 
Overall conclusions  
The efficacy and safety of Rebif in relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis have been documented in a 
24 months, conventional, placebo and dose comparative, parallel-group study. Efficacy, as measured 
by the primary endpoint, i.e. reduced exacerbation rate compared with placebo (about 30% reduction) 
was highly statistically significant compared with placebo. Similarly, proportion of exacerbation-free 
patients was increased, time to relapse was prolonged and severity of exacerbations was reduced. No 
changes were, however, observed in the duration of the exacerbations. 
Progression in disability was a secondary clinical efficacy end-point. Using the protocol definition of 
deterioration  of  disability,  a  significant  prolongation  of  time  to  confirmed  progression  is  observed, 
however the clinical relevance of these findings warranted further evidence. The company submitted 
more data in the frame of the application for the line extension for Rebif 44 mcg, which are discussed 
11/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the sections 6 and 7 of this document.  Later in the procedure, the results were considered by the 
CPMP as of clinical relevance. 
Clinical  efficacy  data  are  also  supported  by  consistent  MRI  data,  here  exemplified  with  effects  on 
“burden of  disease”, i.e. the total area of abnormal  plaques  seen  on T2 weighted  scans. The percent 
change  from  baseline  to  12  months  differed  between  treatment  groups,  (mean)  +  11.6%,  -  1.2%,  - 
6.7% placebo, 6 MIU and 12 MIU, respectively. 
No  information  on  the  influence  of  antibodies  on  the  kinetics  of  Rebif  has  been  provided.  It  has, 
however, been demonstrated that in patients with in vitro neutralising antibodies the dynamic response 
to Rebif in vivo is attenuated. With respect to the tentative influence of antibodies on the efficacy of 
Rebif,  conclusive  data  are  presently  non-available.  However,  it  may  be  concluded  that  a  major 
influence on the efficacy of Rebif is unlikely during the first two years of therapy, and that prolonged 
follow-up  is  needed  to  resolve  this  issue.  This  information  will  be  provided  to  the  CPMP  by  the 
Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  as  indicated  in  the  Specific  Obligations  set  out  for  this  Opinion 
adopted under exceptional circumstances. 
Additional  questions  of  clinical  importance  remain  to  be  answered.  Similar  to  the  situation  for  the 
marketed  beta  interferons,  it  is  unknown  for  how  long  therapy  should  be  continued,  i.e.  benefit/risk 
put in relation to duration of therapy. On the basis  of  the  current status  of the scientific knowledge, 
despite  the  conduct  of  4  placebo  controlled,  beta  IFN  phase  III  studies,  the  benefit/risk  balance  in 
subgroups of patients defined by different baseline characteristics remains to be defined. Any further 
progress  in  this  area  would  most  likely  require  the  co-operation  of  the  MAHs  in  a  joint  effort.  The 
dose  efficacy  relationship  is  also  insufficiently  explored.  The  dose-comparative,  extension  study, 
which was ongoing for at least two years following the authorisation of the product, was expected to 
add valuable information as regards some of these issues. 
Overall, the CPMP considering the data submitted to support the efficacy and safety of Rebif found 
that the absence of studies directly comparing Rebif with licensed interferons on this indication did not 
preclude conclusions as regards the clinical expediency of the product. Based on these considerations, 
the  CPMP  adopted  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional 
circumstances. 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  agreed  to  comply  with  the  Specific  Obligations  to  submit  the 
additional information as set out here below: 
Clinical aspects 
(cid:131)  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  should  present  exploratory  analyses  as  regards  the 
tentative  influence  of  neutralising  antibodies  on  the  efficacy  of  Rebif  on  MS  activity  as 
measured by MRI. 
(cid:131)  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  should  submit  the  full  study  report  from  the  extension 
study based on 2 year data. 
(cid:131)  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  should  in  advance  of  the  analyses  of  data  from  the  dose 
comparative extension study: 
(cid:131)  present  and  justify  analyses  to  be  conducted  with  respect  to  dose  effect  relationship  in 
subgroups of patients, 
(cid:131)  present and justify a plan on how to handle the situation if a “high Nab titre responder” group as 
regards  neutralising  antibodies  can  be  identified  where  MS  activity  is  relatively  increased, 
pharmacodynamic  markers  of  IFN  activity  are  low,  and  systemic  IFN  side  effects  are  absent 
(Withdrawal  from  IFN therapy and  intensified MRI follow-up? Switch to alternative  therapy? 
Dose escalation and/or attempts to induce tolerance?).  
(cid:131)  The Marketing Authorisation holder should submit the study report from the ongoing phase III 
study in patients with secondary progressive disease. 
6. 
Line extension for Rebif 44 mcg 
12/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  initial  application  for  Rebif  22  mcg  was  based  on  the  results  of  a  large,  dose-comparative, 
placebo-controlled  study  designed  as  a  three-armed,  dose-comparative  trial  with  a  pre-specified 
analysis plan with respect to the 44-mcg dose (12 MIU). The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) 
applied  for  an  extension  for  the  strength  of  44  mcg  on  the  basis  of  the  original  dossier  submitted, 
updated in the light of new data and analyses. This strength was approved by Commission Decision of 
29 March 1999. 
This  application  consisted  of  full  part  IIB,  IIC,  IIE.  In  order  to  support  the  clinical  package  of  this 
extension application for the additional strength of 44 mcg, and for the additional therapeutic claim of 
effects on disability, new data and analyses have been submitted: 
• 
• 
• 
MRI data after two years of therapy showing a dose related difference in drug activity 
Exploratory analyses to illustrate the clinical relevance of disability related results 
Subgroup analyses to indicate the proper clinical use of the two doses investigated in the trial. 
Quality aspects 
Rebif 44 mcg, is an additional strength to Rebif 22 mcg. It is a liquid formulation supplied in pre-filled 
syringes and appears as clear solution having pH ranging between 3.4 and 4.4. The active substance 
for  both  strengths  Rebif  22  mcg  and  Rebif  44  mcg  is  identical  in  terms  of  manufacturing  process, 
Quality Control tests, release specifications and manufacturing sites, and thus, documentation on the 
production and control of the bulk substance reference has not been included in the dossier.  
Rebif  22  mcg  and  Rebif  44  mcg were  developed in parallel, and  the  same  manufacturing  process is 
utilised for preparation of the finished product. 
The  master  formula  for  Rebif 44 mcg  is  proportional  to  that  approved  for  Rebif  22  mcg  in  terms  of 
active  substance  and  human  serum  albumin  content  and  identical  in  terms  of  mannitol  content.  The 
mannitol,  HSA,  Sodium  acetate,  Sodium  hydroxide,  Acetic  acid  and  Water  for  injection  used  for 
preparation comply with Ph. Eur. requirements. Moreover, the HSA is sourced from the same supplier 
meeting the specifications already approved for Rebif 22 mcg. 
The control tests performed on the Rebif 44 mcg finished product are identical to those for Rebif 22 
mcg, and both the release and shelf life specifications are qualitatively identical.  
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
No new data were submitted, as the pre-clinical package submitted for the Marketing Authorisation of 
Rebif is considered relevant to Rebif 44 mcg. 
13/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical aspects 
The Marketing Authorisation for Rebif was based on the results of a large, dose-comparative, placebo-
controlled  study  as  discussed  in  the  initial  assessment.  The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to 
investigate “the effects of Rebif at 6 and 12 MIU (namely 22 and 44 mcg) compared with placebo on 
the number of exacerbations”. The primary statistical efficacy analysis, was Rebif 44 mcg vs. placebo.  
Summarised Clinical Efficacy Data, Rebif 44 mcg  
Parameter 
EDSS increase of 1 point, 3 months 
confirmation 
Placebo  
% progressed 
39 
Rebif 44 mcg 
% progressed 
27 (p=0.01) 
Relapses per patients, % reduction vs. placebo 
Percent relapse-free patients  
15 
32 (p<0.005) 
32 (p<0.005) 
Exploratory analyses to illustrate the clinical relevance of disability related results 
The results of the Rebif study with respect to changes in EDSS-related endpoints comparing 44 mcg 
with placebo are summarised in the following table. 
Efficacy Data Expressed in EDSS Related Endpoints  
Parameter 
Placebo% 
progressed 
Rebif 44 mcg  
% progressed 
EDSS increase of 1 point, 3 months confirmation 
39 
EDSS increase of 1 point, 6 months confirmation 
25 
EDSS increase of 2 points, 3 months confirmation  16 
EDSS increase of 2 points, 6 months confirmation  12 
Patients progressed to EDSS 6, 3 months 
confirmation 
Patients progressed to EDSS 6, 6 months 
confirmation 
6 
5 
* Exploratory analyses 
27 (p=0.01) 
19 (p=0.04) 
9 (p=0.03*) 
6 (p=0.01*) 
2 (p=0.04*) 
2 (p=0.03*) 
Similar results in terms of relative decrease in the rate of disease progression or absolute decrease have 
also been shown in published literature and have been accepted by the CPMP as of a clinical 
relevance. 
Risk/benefit comparison between Rebif 22 and Rebif 44 mcg. 
The main clinical study was designed as a three-armed, dose-comparative trial with a prespecified 
analysis plan with respect to the 44-mcg dose. A reasonable way to handle the situation appears to be 
to give some priority to analyses related to the higher dose in the overall benefit risk assessment, but to 
accept results derived from the low-dose arm as valid for this comparative analysis.  
Clinical safety comparison between Rebif 22 and Rebif 44 mcg. 
Serious adverse events were reported in 34, 34 and 27 patients, placebo, 6, and 12 MIU, respectively. 
Events  classified  as  ”probably  related”  were,  respectively,  1,  2  and  4  (groups  as  previously).  As 
possibly related were 2, 6 and 6 events reported (groups as previously). As expected AEs known to, or 
14/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
supposed to be related to the use of IFN, dominated these categories (probable, possible related), e.g. 
depression, lymphopenia, injection site reactions, etc.  
One observed problem with long-term subcutaneous injection therapy with Rebif was the occurrence 
of injection site reactions. Slightly more patients reported severe injection site reactions in the Rebif 
44 group. However, the difference (2.1% vs. 3.8%) was not statistically significant and Rebif 44 was 
not associated with more treatment discontinuation. 
Injection site reaction, by severity, percentage of patients 
Injection site  
inflammation 
Placebo 
6 MIU 
12 MIU 
Mild   Moderate 
1 
14 
7 
61 
11 
61 
Severe 
0 
0.5 
2 
Injection site 
”other” 
Placebo  
6 MIU 
12 MIU 
13 
24 
28 
2 
8 
8 
0 
0.5 
1 
Laboratory abnormalities 
As  expected,  peripheral  haematology  was  affected  by  IFN  treatment.  Overall,  lymphopenia  was 
reported  as  an  adverse  event  in  11,  20  and  29%  of  the  placebo,  6  MIU  and  12  MIU,  patients 
respectively.  Of these, 30% were considered severe in 12 the MIU group.  
A dose-related reduction in granulocyte count was also observed and 2 patients in the 12 MIU group 
reported severe granulocytopenia. Overall the incidence of granulocytopenia was 4, 12 and 15%.  No 
case of severe thrombocytopenia  was reported, but the  overall incidence was highest in the 12 MIU 
group,  8%.  Anaemia  was  seen  in  similar  incidence  in  the  placebo  and  the  6  MIU  groups  (3%),  but 
slightly more often in the 12 MIU group (5%). 
IFN increased the mean of ALAT, ASAT, and ALP, and elevation in ALAT/ASAT was seen at least 
once in 23% of the 6 MIU and 54% of the 12 MIU patients. Six cases in each group were considered 
severe.  
In conclusion, as regards safety, differences between dose groups were overall small. Treatment 
discontinuations for adverse events occurred in six patients on 22 mcg tiw and nine on 44 mcg tiw 
over 2 years.  
Clinical efficacy comparison between Rebif 22 and Rebif 44 mcg. 
With  respect  to  conducted  efficacy  analyses  in  the  whole  study  population,  pre-planned  or 
exploratory,  there  are  trends  in  favour  of  44  mcg  tiw,  but  these  trends  do  not  achieve  statistical 
significance. 
In  the  two-year  MRI  analyses,  T2  lesion  count  and  proportion  of  T2  active  scans  was  significantly 
reduced  in  the  44-mcg  groups  compared  with  the  22-mcg  group  (p<0.001).  As  regards  burden  of 
disease, however, in terms of difference between the active treatment groups there was a trend towards 
significance (p=0.055).  
In summary, based on efficacy analyses related to the whole study population the efficacy compared 
with placebo has been demonstrated for both dosages of Rebif.  
Given  the  small  dose-related  difference  in  safety,  it  is  concluded  that  the  benefit  risk  relationship is 
acceptable  for  both  dosages.  Trends  to  better  outcome  on  44-mcg  tiw  compared  to  22  mcg  tiw  for 
clinical  measures  and  significant  differences  on  MRI  measures  with  limited  differences  on  safety, 
suggest high dose is preferable. 
Overall Risk / Benefit analysis 
Based  on  efficacy  analyses  related  to  the  whole  study  population,  it  appears  reasonable  to  conclude 
that efficacy compared with placebo has been demonstrated for both dosages of Rebif.  
The adverse effects profile however tends to be worse with the use of Rebif 44, even though in 
absolute terms the difference is small.  
15/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The analysis of the efficacy data did not show any statistically significant difference in performance 
between the two dose groups. In patients with an EDSS>3.5 the use of the higher strength should be 
considered,  given  the  small  dose-related  difference  in  safety.  Given  that  the  data  in  addition  were 
derived from a limited experience with low numbers of patients, the need of firm evidence provided 
by prospective confirmative studies was discussed and considered necessary by some Members. 
Taking  into  account  the  above-mentioned  considerations  the  MAH  was  requested  during  an  Oral 
Explanation to justify the marketing of the 44mcg strength from a risk/benefit balance point of view. 
For every single efficacy outcome parameter, results with Rebif 44 mcg are better than Rebif 22 mcg 
in  the  retrospectively  defined  subgroup  of  patients  with  EDSS>3.5.  This  difference  across  all 
parameters, assessed statistically using a Rank-Sum analysis (“Global Score”), indicates Rebif 44 mcg 
superior to Rebif 22 mcg. The results of this analysis demonstrate that Rebif 44 mcg is significantly 
better  than  Rebif  22  mcg  (p  =  0.0036  for  Rebif  44  mcg  vs.  Rebif  22  mcg)  using  the  protocol 
prespecified  endpoints.  Additionally,  the  difference  between  the  two doses is statistically significant 
for  2 year  prospectively  defined  MRI  endpoints.  Only  Rebif  44  mcg  significantly  decreased  the 
worsening in the ambulation index and decreased hospitalisations compared to placebo. 
Conclusions 
The  CPMP  found  that  the  benefit/risk  relationship  was  favourable  for  both  dosages  of  Rebif,  but 
questioned  the  robustness  of  the  subgroup  analysis.  The  clinical  relevance  of  a  specific  dose 
recommendation targeting patients with EDSS score at base line was also questioned, given that beta-
interferons  have  been  available  for  treatment  of  MS  for  several  years.  Nevertheless  taking  into 
consideration the evidence supporting a dose-effect relationship, the heterogeneity of the disease, and 
the  inter-individual  variability  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Rebif  it  was  found  that  there  is  need  of 
flexibility in the dose adjustments for individual patients.  
On  this  risk/benefit  ratio  evaluation,  the  CPMP  recommended  the  granting  of  the  Marketing 
Authorisation for Rebif 44mcg. 
7. 
Update of the SPC following the results of Extension study 6789 
The  MAH  submitted  the  final  study  report  of  the  Study  6789  as  per  the  specific  obligations  (see 
section 5) and a type II variation to amend the Summary of Product Characteristics. Study 6789 was a 
randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled 2-year study to examine the effect of Rebif in relapsing-
remitting MS (RRMS). A benefit for both doses of Rebif was shown relative to placebo. This study 
was extended for a further 2 years. The relevant decision by the European Commission was issued on 
22 January 2001. 
The data available from the two years extension of study GF 6789 demonstrate that over 4 years, the 
reduction in the mean exacerbation rate was 22 % in patients treated with Rebif 22 micrograms, and 
29  %  in  patients  treated  with  Rebif  44  micrograms  compared  with  a  group  of  patients  treated  with 
placebo  for  2  years  and  then  either  Rebif  22  mcg  or  Rebif  44  mcg  for  2  years.  Although 
discontinuation  for  adverse  events  was  greater  in  high  vs.  low  dose  treated  patients,  the  results  of 
study  GF  6789  support  the  use  of  Rebif  44  mcg  (instead  of  22  mcg)  as  the  recommended  dose  for 
patients  with  RRMS.  The  majority  of  dropouts  due  to  adverse  events  in  the  extension  phase  were 
patients  receiving  44  mcg,  particularly  those  newly  exposed  to  interferon.  In  order  to  improve 
tolerability,  it  is  suggested  that  the  patients  when  first  starting  treatment  with  Rebif  should  be 
maintained on the 22 mcg dose for a longer period of time (3 months) before increasing the dose to 44 
mcg.  With  regard  to  the  effect  of  neutralising  antibodies,  the  data  obtained  in  the  extension  study 
indicate an almost complete loss of MRI effect and a clear reduction in clinical effect once neutralising 
antibodies develop. A statement clarifying this issue was included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Overall,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  results  for  several  efficacy  measures  related  to  relapse  rate, 
disability and MRI measures demonstrate a better efficacy for the 44 mcg dose, which is accompanied 
by a small increase in side effects. The submitted data are considered to support the use of the 44-mcg 
dose as the recommended normal dose. The analysis presented by the applicant has not shown that any 
16/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
single  factor  is  clearly  predictive  of  a  clinical  dose  response.  The  occurrence  of  adverse  events  and 
study withdrawal in relation to time on therapy does not indicate that patients would benefit from an 
extended time on the 22-mcg dose before increasing the dose to 44 mcg. 
Based on the submitted data the CPMP approved on 22 January 2001 the recommended dose of Rebif 
as 44 micrograms given three times per week by subcutaneous injection. Rebif 22 micrograms, also 
given three times per week by subcutaneous injection, is recommended for patients who cannot 
tolerate the higher dose in view of the treating specialist. 
8. 
Revision of the indication following the results of the study SPECTRIMS 
One of the specified obligations of the MAH following the Commission decision was to provide the 
study  report  from  the  phase  III  study  (Study  GF  6954,  SPECTRIMS)  in  patients  with  secondary 
progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). The MAH submitted the final study report for GF 6954. Based 
on the results of this study, the MAH submitted a type II variation with an application for revision of 
the currently approved Rebif 22 mcg and 44 mcg SmPC. The MAH proposed to extend the indication 
to “patients with secondary progressive MS who have experienced relapses in the prior 2 years, Rebif 
XX micrograms has demonstrated efficacy in decreasing the frequency and severity of relapses as well 
as  in  slowing  the  progression  of  disability.  Rebif  therapy  should  not  be  initiated  in  secondary 
progressive MS patients who no longer experience relapses.” 
The primary efficacy variable for study GF 6954 was time to confirmed progression in disability. No 
significant  benefit  for  either  dose  of  Rebif  was  shown  in  the  primary  analysis.  With  regard  to  the 
secondary clinical  outcome  measure, relapse  rate  per year, both doses of Rebif showed a significant 
benefit  with  a  reduction  of  the  relapse  rate  by  approximately  30%  (p<0.001).  A  post-hoc  subgroup 
analysis  indicated  that  patients  with  relapses  in  the  two  years  before  the  study  were  more  likely  to 
respond to Rebif in terms of time to progression. The trend towards benefit observed within each of 
the two treatment groups in relapsing patients did not reach statistical significance, but when treatment 
groups  were  combined  and  compared  with  placebo,  the  odds  ratio  for  progression  among  relapsing 
patients was 0.52 (p= 0.027) [non-relapsing patients odds ratio 1.07 (p=0.802)]. 
The  overall  interpretation  of  available  data  is  that  Rebif  undoubtedly  reduces  relapse  activity  in 
patients  with  MS.  In  contrast,  there  is  no  data  indicating  that  the  course  of  SPMS,  if  not  associated 
with relapsing/remitting activity, is modified by Rebif therapy. In patients with relapsing/remitting MS 
and at least 2 recurrent attacks of neurological dysfunction over the preceding 2-year period, reduced 
relapse  activity  is  associated  with  a  delay  in  time  to  progression  in  disability.  These  findings  are 
reproduced,  though  statistically  less  convincing,  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  SPMS  associated 
with  relapsing/remitting  activity  within  two  years  prior  to  therapy.  As  these  findings  have  a  high 
degree  of  biological  plausibility,  it  seems  reasonable  to  reword  the  indication  focusing  on 
relapsing/remitting activity and to provide data from the SPECTRIMS study in 5.1.  
The  ad-hoc  experts  group  on  clinical  efficacy  of  beta  interferons  in  MS  at  the  meeting  on  28  May 
2001 agreed that the effect of Rebif is on the delay of relapses and the indication should be focusing 
on  the  activity  on  relapses.  A  group  convened  at  the  margins  of  the  Efficacy  Working  Party  on  18 
June 2001 confirmed this view and agreed on the revision of the indication as “treatment of patients 
with  multiple sclerosis and with 2 or more relapses within the last two years. Efficacy has not been 
demonstrated  in  patients  with  secondary  progressive  multiple  sclerosis  without  ongoing  relapsing 
activity.”  
The European Commission issued a Decision amending the Summary of Product Characteristics on 20 
November 2001.  
9. 
Line extension for the replacement of the authorised producer clone with a new clone 
The extension application related to the introduction of a new clone in the manufacturing process. The 
Marketing Authorisation Holder submitted an application for an Annex II application to the European 
Agency  for  the  Evaluation  of  Medicinal  Products  (EMEA)  for  Rebif.  During  their  October  2002 
17/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
meeting, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, 
the CPMP issued a positive opinion for granting an extension of the Marketing Authorisation to Rebif. 
The CPMP recommended the extension of the Marketing Authorisation for Rebif 22 µg and 44 µg to 
reflect the introduction of a new high producer clone in the manufacturing process. This line extension 
was approved by the Commission Decision of 16 January 2003. 
Quality aspects 
The  new  clone  was  established  from  the  same  CHO  host  cell  line  as  the  original  clone  but  using  a 
different  expression  vector  construct.  Comparative  data  were  submitted  showing  genotypic  and 
phenotypic characterisation and stability of the producing cell line for a time that exceeds production. 
Studies on the viral safety of the cell banks and on the viral clearance/inactivation of the production 
process have been designed to conform to the recommendations in relevant EU and ICH guidelines. 
Basically the same production process is used for the new clone material as for the originally approved 
material.  Extensive  biochemical,  physico-chemical  and  in-vitro  biological  characterisation  studies 
were  reported.  The  characterisation  studies  included  analyses  of  the  amino  acids  sequence,  S-S 
bridging,  carbohydrate  chain  structure.  The  same  in  process  control  tests  and  the  same  methods  for 
specifications using the same acceptance criteria are applied.  
The  stability  of  the  drug  substance  was  tested  under  the  following  conditions:  stress  testing, 
accelerated stability and long term testing. 
The drug product manufactured using r-hIFN-ß-1a bulk from the new clone has been shown to comply 
with  all  specifications  approved  for  currently  marketed  drug  product.  It  was  therefore  proposed  to 
apply  the  same  shelf-life  as  already  applied  for  the  currently  approved  presentations  and  that  is  24 
months when stored at 2-8°C and protected from freezing and 1 month at RT. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
No new pre-clinical data have been submitted. 
Clinical aspects 
Previously conducted major long-term clinical studies, comparing the efficacy and safety of the 22 mg 
and 44 mg presentation, formed part of the basis for the discussion of this line extension application. 
Overall Risk / Benefit analysis 
From  a  biotechnology  point  of  view  the  product  was  considered  well  characterised.  Based  on  this 
characterisation and taking into account the clinical experience, there are no major clinical concerns. 
Nevertheless,  it  is  recognised  that  the  experience  derived  from  “high-resolution”  comparability 
exercises is still limited. In order to investigate further the antigenicity profile for the product from the 
new  clone,  the  company  committed  to  conduct  a  post-marketing  trial  on  the  immunogenicity  and 
safety  of  the  product  in  patients.  The  design  of  the  study  was  agreed  with  the  Rapporteur  and  the 
CPMP.  
The CPMP expressed concern that the ‘possible’ different safety/antigenicity profiles of the products 
derived  from  the  two  clones  could  confound  any  analysis  of  spontaneous  adverse  event  reporting. 
Therefore, the company committed to phase out product derived from the original clone. 
18/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Rebif 22 µg and 44 µg produced by the new clone was favourable. 
10. 
Update of Clinical Safety from post-marketing experience 
All  periodic  safety  updates  reports  (PSURs)  since  product  authorisation  have  been  submitted  and 
assessed. In order to reflect the knowledge of the safety profile of Rebif progressively gained during 
the  post  authorisation  phase,  several  revisions  of  the  SPC  (through  Type  II  variations)  and  related 
revisions of the patient information leaflet have been submitted by the MAH. 
The changes implemented in the SPC following the assessment of the 5th PSUR were the following: 
Under Section 4.4- Special warnings and special precautions for use: 
- 
Addition of a paragraph about hepatic function disorders: 
“In  clinical  trials  with  Rebif,  asymptomatic  elevations  of  hepatic  transaminases  (particularly  ALT) 
were common and 1-3 % of patients developed elevations of hepatic transaminases above 5 times the 
upper  limit  of  normal  (ULN).  Dose  reduction  of  Rebif  should  be  considered  if  ALT  rises  above  5 
times  the  ULN,  and  gradually  re-escalated  when  enzyme  levels  have  normalized.  Rebif  should  be 
initiated with caution in patients with a history of significant liver disease, clinical evidence of active 
liver disease, alcohol abuse or increased serum ALT (> 2.5 times ULN). Serum ALT levels should be 
monitored prior to start of therapy, at months 1, 3 and 6 on therapy and periodically thereafter in the 
absence  of  clinical  symptoms.  Treatment  with  Rebif  should  be  stopped  if  icterus  or  other  clinical 
symptoms of liver dysfunction appear (see 4.8 undesirable effects).”  
Rewording of the paragraph related to the monitoring of laboratory abnormalities: 
“Laboratory  abnormalities  are  associated  with  the  use  of  interferons.  Therefore,  in  addition  to  those 
laboratory tests, normally required for monitoring patients with multiple sclerosis, and in addition to 
liver  enzyme  monitoring,  complete  and  differential  blood  cell  counts  and  platelet  counts  are  also 
recommended during Interferon beta-1a therapy”. 
- 
Addition of a paragraph on thyroid abnormalities:  
“Patients being treated with Rebif may occasionally develop new or worsening thyroid abnormalities. 
Thyroid  function  testing  is  recommended  at  baseline  and  if  abnormal,  every  6-12  months  following 
initiation  of  therapy.  If  tests  are  normal  at  baseline,  routine  testing  is  not  needed  but  should  be 
performed if clinical findings of thyroid dysfunction appear (see also 4.8 Undesirable effects)."  
The following has been added under Section 4.8-Undesirable effects 
- 
"Adverse hepatic reactions such as hepatitis, with or without icterus, have been rarely reported 
(cross-reference to 4.4)."  
“Angioedema and urticaria” as examples of hypersensitivity reactions that may occur.  
“Hair loss”. 
“Occasional thyroid dysfunction, generally transient and mild, may occur during the first year 
of treatment, particularly in patients with pre-existing thyroiditis” with   cross-reference to 4.4.  
"An  increased  formation  of  autoantibodies  may  occur  during  treatment  with  interferon  beta 
(cross-reference to 4.4)".  
- 
- 
- 
- 
These changes were reflected in the Package leaflet accordingly. 
The changes implemented in the SPC following the assessment of the 6th PSUR were the following: 
Under Section 4.4-Special warnings and special precautions for use: 
- 
The warning related to hepatic reactions has been strengthened with the addition of: 
"Rebif,  like  other  interferons  beta,  has  a  potential  for  causing  severe  liver  injury  (see  Section  4.8) 
including acute hepatic failure. The mechanism for the rare symptomatic hepatic dysfunction is 
not known. No specific risk factors have been identified."  
Under Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
19/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
The  section  has  been  re-organised  according  to  the  EU  guideline  of  SPC  with  the  adverse 
reactions being classified according to frequency of occurrence.  
“Erythema multiforme” and “erythema multiforme-like skin reactions” have been added as very 
rare adverse reactions, and "injection site abscess" and "injection site mass" have been added as 
uncommon adverse reactions.  
Under Section 4.6 -Pregnancy and lactation: 
- 
Because  of  the  potential  hazards  to  the  foetus,  Rebif  is  contraindicated  in  pregnancy.  There  are  no 
studies of interferon beta-1a in pregnant women. At high doses, in monkeys, abortifacient effects were 
observed with other interferons (see 5.3 Preclinical safety data). It cannot be excluded that such effects 
will be observed in humans.” 
The Package leaflet has been amended accordingly. 
The first paragraph related to pregnancy has been modified as follows: 
The changes implemented in the SPC following the assessment of the 7th PSUR were the following: 
Under Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
- 
- 
The Package leaflet has been amended accordingly. 
“Very rare anaphylactic reactions” have been added  
“Menorrhagia and metrorrhagia” have been added as pharmalogical class effect 
20/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
