EMA/103745/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004444 
Reblozyl (luspatercept) 
An overview of Reblozyl and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Reblozyl and what is it used for? 
Reblozyl is a medicine used to treat anaemia (low red blood cell counts) in adults with the following 
blood disorders: 
•  Myelodysplastic syndromes, a group of conditions where too few blood cells are produced by the 
bone marrow. Reblozyl is used in patients who need regular blood transfusions and who have a 
very low to moderate risk of their condition developing into acute myeloid leukaemia (a blood 
cancer) or of dying. It is used in patients in whom another medicine, erythropoietin, is unsuitable 
or does not work. 
•  Beta thalassaemia, a genetic condition in which patients cannot make enough beta globin, a 
component of haemoglobin (the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen around the body).  
These diseases are rare, and Reblozyl was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases). Further information on the orphan designations can be found on the European Medicines 
Agency’s website (myelodysplastic syndromes: 22 August 2014; beta thalassaemia: 29 July 2014). 
The medicine contains the active substance luspatercept. 
How is Reblozyl used? 
The medicine is available for injection under the skin and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Treatment should be started by a doctor experienced in the treatment of blood diseases. 
The injection is given under the skin of the upper arm, thigh or belly. The recommended dose depends 
on the patient’s weight and is adjusted depending on the patient’s response. Treatment is given once 
every 3 weeks. If the patient develops serious side effects, treatment should be delayed until side 
effects have improved. 
For more information about using Reblozyl, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Reblozyl work? 
The active substance in Reblozyl, luspatercept, regulates the maturation of red blood cells. It does this 
by blocking a signalling pathway called Smad2/3 that slows down the maturation of red blood cells and 
is overactive in patients with beta thalassaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes. Blocking Smad2/3 
increases the production of red blood cells and allows them to develop normally. 
What benefits of Reblozyl have been shown in studies? 
Myelodysplastic syndromes  
The main study involved 229 adults with myelodysplastic syndromes requiring regular blood 
transfusions. Patients received either Reblozyl or placebo (a dummy treatment) in addition to normal 
standard of care. 58 out of 153 patients (38%) taking Reblozyl did not need a blood transfusion for at 
least 8 weeks compared with 10 out of 76 (13%) patients receiving placebo.  
Beta thalassaemia 
The main study involved 336 patients with beta thalassaemia requiring regular blood transfusions. 
Patients received either Reblozyl or placebo in addition to standard treatment. Blood transfusion needs 
were reduced by at least one third (33%) in 48 out of 224 patients (21%) taking Reblozyl compared 
with 5 out of 112 (4.5%) patients receiving placebo.  
A second main study involved patients with beta thalassaemia not requiring regular blood transfusions. 
Patients received either Reblozyl or placebo together with standard treatment for at least 48 weeks. 
After 12 weeks, 74 out of 96 patients receiving Reblozyl (77%) had a rise of at least 1 g/dL in their 
haemoglobin level over the next 12 weeks without needing transfusions, compared with none of the 49 
patients who received placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Reblozyl? 
The most common side effects with Reblozyl in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (which may 
affect more than 15 in 100 people) are tiredness, diarrhoea, weakness, nausea (feeling sick), 
dizziness, back pain and headache. The most common serious or severe side effects (affecting more 
than 2 in 100 people) include syncope (fainting), tiredness, hypertension (high blood pressure), 
weakness, urinary tract infection (infection of the structures that carry the urine) and back pain.  
The most common side effects of Reblozyl in patients with beta thalassaemia requiring transfusion 
(which may affect more than 15 in 100 people) are headache, bone pain and joint pain. The most 
common serious or severe side effects are hyperuricaemia (high levels of uric acid in the blood), 
stroke, effects due to blood clots in the veins such as deep vein thrombosis, portal vein thrombosis 
(clots in the veins supplying the liver) and pulmonary embolism (clots in the veins supplying the 
lungs). 
The most common side effects of Reblozyl in patients with beta thalassaemia not requiring regular 
transfusion (which may affect more than 15 in 100 people) are headache, bone, back and joint pain, 
and prehypertension and hypertension (high blood pressure). The most common serious or severe side 
effect is traumatic fracture (a fracture caused for example by a fall or an accident). 
Reblozyl must not be given during pregnancy. Women who can become pregnant must use effective 
contraception during treatment and for at least 3 months after the last dose. Patients requiring 
treatment to control the growth of extramedullary haemopoiesis masses (the formation of blood cells 
outside the bone marrow) must not use Reblozyl. For the full list of side effects and restrictions of 
Reblozyl, see the package leaflet. 
Reblozyl (luspatercept)  
EMA/103745/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Reblozyl authorised in the EU? 
Treatment with frequent blood transfusions can lead to accumulation of iron in the body, which can 
damage organs. Reblozyl reduces the need for blood transfusions in myelodysplastic syndromes and 
beta thalassaemia while its side effects are considered manageable. In patients with beta thalassaemia 
not requiring regular transfusions, higher haemoglobin levels are expected to improve outcomes for 
patients. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Reblozyl’s benefits are greater than 
its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Reblozyl? 
The company that markets Reblozyl will provide educational packs for doctors who prescribe Reblozyl 
explaining that the medicine can be harmful to the unborn child and detailing the steps that need to be 
taken for the medicine to be used safely. It will also supply cards to women who can become pregnant 
about the safety measures they should take to avoid pregnancy.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Reblozyl have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Reblozyl are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Reblozyl are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Reblozyl 
Reblozyl received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 June 2020. 
Further information on Reblozyl can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/reblozyl  
This overview was last updated in 03-2023. 
Reblozyl (luspatercept)  
EMA/103745/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
