MK-7655A
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.0
PAGE 46
IMIPENEM (+) CILASTATIN
(+) RELEBACTAM
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT
Summary of risk management plan for Recarbrio (imipenem and 
cilastatin and relebactam)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Recarbrio. The RMP currently 
details important risks of Recarbrio, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about risks and uncertainties for Recarbrio (missing 
information).
The summary of product characteristics (SmPC) of Recarbrio and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Recarbrio should be 
used.
This summary of the RMP for Recarbrio should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the 
RMP for Recarbrio.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used For
Recarbrio is authorised for the treatment of infections due to hospital-acquired pneumonia 
(HAP), including ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP), in adults, and bacteraemia that 
occurs in association with, or is suspected to be associated with HAP or VAP in adults, and
infections due to aerobic gram-negative organisms in adults with limited treatment options
(see SmPC for the full indication). It contains imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam as active 
substances and it is given by powder for solution for infusion.
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of Recarbrio can be found in the 
EPAR for Recarbrio, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/recarbrio.
05LTSZ
 
 
MK-7655A
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.0
PAGE 47
IMIPENEM (+) CILASTATIN
(+) RELEBACTAM
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks
Risks associated with Recarbrio will be subject to the routine risk minimisation measures 
outlined below:
•
Specific information about CNS events (including seizures, confusional states and 
dizziness), hypersensitivity reactions, Clostridioides difficile- related pseudomembranous 
enterocolitis, and drug-drug interactions with valproic acid or divalproex sodium which 
have been observed in the post-marketing experience with the imipenem/cilastatin
components of Recarbrio, are described in the SmPC. This includes a contraindication for 
use in patients with history of severe hypersensitivity to any component of the product, 
and information in Special Warnings and Precautions for use and the Adverse Reactions 
sections of package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals, 
respectively, with advice on correct use and appropriate dosing for patients with renal 
impairment.
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging.
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly.
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed in aggregate periodic benefit-risk evaluation reports so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance 
activities.
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of Recarbrio are risks that need special risk management activities to 
investigate further or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Recarbrio. Potential risks 
are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
05LTSZ
 
 
MK-7655A
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.0
PAGE 48
IMIPENEM (+) CILASTATIN
(+) RELEBACTAM
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
There are no important identified risks, important potential risks or missing information for 
Recarbrio.
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Recarbrio.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for Recarbrio.
05LTSZ
 
 
