ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions.
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Recarbrio 500 mg/500 mg/250 mg powder for solution for infusion
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each vial contains imipenem monohydrate equivalent to 500 mg imipenem, cilastatin sodium
equivalent to 500 mg cilastatin, and relebactam monohydrate equivalent to 250 mg relebactam.
Excipient(s) with known effect
The total amount of sodium in each vial is 37.5 mg (1.6 mmol).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for solution for infusion.
A white to light yellow powder.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
Recarbrio is indicated for:
 Treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), including ventilator associated pneumonia
(VAP), in adults (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
 Treatment of bacteraemia that occurs in association with, or is suspected to be associated with
HAP or VAP, in adults.
 Treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms in adults with limited
treatment options (see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.1).
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.
4.2  Posology and method of administration
It is recommended that Recarbrio should be used to treat infections due to aerobic Gram-negative
organisms in adult patients with limited treatment options only after consultation with a physician with
appropriate experience in the management of infectious diseases.
Posology
Table 1 shows the recommended intravenous dose for patients with a creatinine clearance
(CrCl) ≥ 90 mL/min (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
2



Table 1: Recommended intravenous dose for patients with a creatinine clearance
(CrCl) ≥ 90 mL/min1,2
Type of infection
Hospital-acquired
pneumonia, including
ventilator associated 
pneumonia2,3
Infections due to aerobic 
Gram-negative organisms in
patients with limited 
treatment options2 
Dose of Recarbrio
(imipenem/cilastatin/ 
relebactam)
Frequency
Infusion
time
Duration of
treatment
500 mg/500 mg/250 mg
Every
6 hours
30 mins 
7 to 14 days
500 mg/500 mg/250 mg
Every
6 hours 
30 mins
Duration in
accordance with
the site of
infection4
1As calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula.
2For HAP or VAP patients with CrCl ˃ 250 mL/min, and for patients with complicated intra-abdominal
infections (cIAI) or complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI), including pyelonephritis with
CrCl ˃ 150 mL/min, the recommended dose of Recarbrio may not be sufficient (see section 4.4).
3Includes bacteraemia, in association with, or suspected to be associated with, HAP or VAP.
4e.g., for cIAI and cUTI the recommended treatment duration is 5 to 10 days; treatment may continue up to
14 days. 
Special populations
Renal impairment
Patients who have a CrCl less than 90 mL/min require dosage reduction of Recarbrio as indicated in
Table 2. For patients with fluctuating renal function, CrCl should be monitored.
Table 2: Recommended intravenous doses for patients with a CrCl < 90 mL/min
Creatinine 
Estimated 
(mL/min)* 
Less than 90 to greater than or equal to 60 
Clearance 
Recommended dosage of Recarbrio
(imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam) (mg)†
400/400/200
Less than 60 to greater than or equal to 30 
Less than 30 to greater than or equal to 15 
300/300/150
200/200/100
stage 
(ESRD)  on
renal  disease 
End 
haemodialysis‡
*CrCl calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula.
†Administer intravenously over 30 minutes every 6 hours.
‡Administration  should  be  timed to  follow  haemodialysis.  Imipenem,  cilastatin,  and  relebactam  are
cleared from the circulation during haemodialysis.
Recarbrio is provided as a single vial in a fixed-dose combination; the dose for each component will
be adjusted equally during preparation (see section 6.6).
200/200/100
Patients with CrCl less than 15 mL/min should not receive Recarbrio unless haemodialysis is instituted
within 48 hours. There is inadequate information to recommend usage of Recarbrio for patients
undergoing peritoneal dialysis.
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is required in patients with impaired hepatic function (see section 5.2).
Elderly population
No dose adjustment is required for elderly patients (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam in children and adolescents below 18 years
of age have not yet been established. No data are available.
3
Method of administration 
Intravenous use.
Recarbrio is administered by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes.
Recarbrio must be reconstituted (see sections 6.2, 6.3, and 6.6) prior to intravenous infusion. 
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Hypersensitivity to any other carbapenem antibacterial agent.
Severe hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reaction, severe skin reaction) to any other type of beta-
lactam antibacterial agent (e.g., penicillins, cephalosporins or monobactams) (see section 4.4).
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Hypersensitivity reactions
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients
receiving therapy with beta-lactams (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). 
These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple
allergens. Before initiating therapy with Recarbrio, careful inquiry should be made concerning
previous hypersensitivity reactions to carbapenems, penicillins, cephalosporins, other beta-lactams,
and other allergens. 
If an allergic reaction to Recarbrio occurs, treatment with Recarbrio must be discontinued
immediately. Serious anaphylactic reactions require immediate emergency treatment.
Hepatic function
Hepatic function should be closely monitored during treatment with Recarbrio due to the risk of
hepatic toxicity (such as increase in transaminases, hepatic failure, and fulminant hepatitis) (see
section 4.8).
Use in patients with liver disease: patients with pre-existing liver disorders should have liver function
monitored during treatment with Recarbrio. There is no dose adjustment necessary (see section 4.2).
Central nervous system (CNS)
CNS adverse reactions, such as seizures, confusional states, and myoclonic activity have been reported
during treatment with imipenem/cilastatin, components of Recarbrio, especially when recommended
dosages of imipenem were exceeded. These reactions have been reported most commonly in patients
with CNS disorders (e.g., brain lesions or history of seizures) and/or compromised renal function.
Increased seizure potential due to interaction with valproic acid
The concomitant use of Recarbrio and valproic acid/divalproex sodium is not recommended.
Antibacterials other than carbapenems should be considered to treat infections in patients whose
seizures are well-controlled on valproic acid or divalproex sodium. If administration of Recarbrio is
necessary, supplemental anti-convulsant therapy should be considered (see section 4.5).
4
Clostridioides difficile-Associated Diarrhoea (CDAD)
Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhoea (CDAD) has been reported with Recarbrio. CDAD may
range in severity from mild diarrhoea to fatal colitis. CDAD must be considered in all patients who
present with diarrhoea during or following the administration of Recarbrio (see section 4.8). Careful
medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the
administration of antibacterial agents.
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, discontinuation of therapy with Recarbrio, and the administration
of specific treatment for C. difficile should be considered. Medicinal products that inhibit peristalsis
should not be given.
Patients with CrCl ≥ 150 mL/min
Based on pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analyses, the dose of Recarbrio that is recommended for
patients with CrCl of ≥ 90 mL/min may not be sufficient to treat patients with HAP or VAP and CrCl
> 250 mL/min, or patients with cIAI or cUTI and CrCl > 150 mL/min. Consideration should be given
to using alternative therapies for these patients.
Renal impairment 
Dose adjustment is recommended in patients with renal impairment (see section 4.2). There is
inadequate information to recommend usage of Recarbrio for patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis.
Limitations of the clinical data
Patients who were immunocompromised, including those with neutropenia, were excluded from
clinical trials.
Hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia
In a single study of hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia, 6.2 %
(33/535) of patients had bacteraemia at baseline.
Patients with limited treatment options
The use of Recarbrio to treat patients with infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms who
have limited treatment options is based on experience with imipenem/cilastatin, pharmacokinetic-
pharmacodynamic analysis for imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam, and on limited data from a randomised
clinical study in which 21 evaluable patients were treated with Recarbrio and 10 evaluable patients
were treated with colistin and imipenem/cilastatin for infections caused by imipenem-non-susceptible
organisms.
Limitations of the spectrum of antibacterial activity
Imipenem does not have activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and
Staphylococcus epidermidis (MRSE) or against Enterococcus faecium. Alternative or additional
antibacterial agents should be used when these pathogens are known or suspected to be contributing to
the infectious process.
The inhibitory spectrum of relebactam includes class A beta-lactamases (such as ESBLs and KPC) and
Class C beta-lactamases including PDC. Relebactam does not inhibit class D carbapenemases such as
OXA-48 or class B metallo-beta-lactamases such as NDM and VIM (see section 5.1).
Non-susceptible organisms
The use of imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam may result in the overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms,
which may require interruption of treatment or other appropriate measures.
5
Antiglobulin test (Coombs test) seroconversion
A positive direct or indirect Coombs test may develop during treatment with
imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam (see section 4.8).
Controlled sodium diet
Each vial contains a total of 37.5 mg of sodium (1.6 mmol), equivalent to 1.9 % of the WHO (World
Health Organization) recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. This should be
considered when administering Recarbrio to patients who are on a controlled sodium diet.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Ganciclovir
Generalised seizures have been reported in patients who received ganciclovir concomitantly with
imipenem/cilastatin, components of Recarbrio. Ganciclovir should not be used concomitantly with
Recarbrio unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks.
Valproic acid
Case reports in the literature have shown that co-administration of carbapenems, including
imipenem/cilastatin (components of Recarbrio), to patients receiving valproic acid or divalproex
sodium results in a reduction in valproic acid concentrations. The valproic acid concentrations may
drop below the therapeutic range as a result of this interaction, therefore increasing the risk of
breakthrough seizures. Although the mechanism of this interaction is unknown, data from in vitro and
animal studies suggest that carbapenems may inhibit the hydrolysis of valproic acid's glucuronide
metabolite (VPA-g) back to valproic acid, thus decreasing the serum concentrations of valproic acid.
The concomitant use of Recarbrio and valproic acid/divalproex sodium is not recommended (see
section 4.4).
Oral anti-coagulants
Simultaneous administration of antibacterial agents with warfarin may augment its anticoagulant
effects. It is recommended that the INR should be monitored as appropriate during and shortly after
co-administration of antibiotics with oral anti-coagulant medicinal products.
Clinical drug interaction studies
A clinical drug-drug interaction study demonstrated that imipenem and relebactam exposures do not
increase by a clinically significant extent when Recarbrio is co-administered with the prototypical
OAT-inhibitor probenecid, indicating a lack of clinically meaningful OAT-mediated drug-drug
interactions. Concomitant administration of imipenem/cilastatin and probenecid increased the plasma
level and half-life of cilastatin, though not to a clinically meaningful extent. Therefore, Recarbrio may
be administered concomitantly with OAT inhibitors.
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies for the use of imipenem, cilastatin, or relebactam in
pregnant women.
Animal studies with imipenem/cilastatin have shown reproductive toxicity in monkeys (see
section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Animal studies with relebactam do not
indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).
6
Recarbrio should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to
the foetus.
Breastfeeding
Imipenem and cilastatin are excreted into the mother’s milk in small quantities. 
It is unknown whether relebactam is excreted in human milk. Available data in animals have shown
excretion of relebactam in the milk of rats (for details see section 5.3).
A risk to breastfed newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to
discontinue breastfeeding or to discontinue Recarbrio therapy taking into account the benefit of
breastfeeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.
Fertility
There are no human data available regarding potential effects of imipenem/cilastatin or relebactam
treatment on male or female fertility. Animal studies do not indicate harmful effects of
imipenem/cilastatin or relebactam on fertility (see section 5.3).
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Recarbrio has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. CNS adverse reactions,
such as seizures, confusional states, and myoclonic activity, have been reported during treatment with
imipenem/cilastatin, components of Recarbrio, especially when recommended dosages of imipenem
were exceeded (see section 4.4). Therefore, caution should be exercised when driving or using
machines.
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most frequently occurring adverse reaction (≥ 2 %) in patients receiving imipenem/cilastatin plus
relebactam in pooled Phase 2 trials of complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI) and complicated
urinary tract infections (cUTI), including pyelonephritis (N = 431) was diarrhoea. The most frequently
occurring adverse reactions (≥ 2 %) in patients receiving Recarbrio in a Phase 3 trial of HAP or VAP
(N = 266) were diarrhoea, alanine aminotransferase increased, and aspartate aminotransferase
increased.
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions
The following adverse reactions have been reported during Phase 2 (imipenem/cilastatin plus
relebactam including 431 patients) and Phase 3 (Recarbrio including 266 patients) clinical trials and
with imipenem/cilastatin in clinical studies or during post-marketing experience with
imipenem/cilastatin (see Table 3).
Adverse reactions are classified according to MedDRA System Organ Class and frequency. Frequency
categories are derived according to the following conventions: Very common (≥ 1/10), Common
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), Uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), Rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), Very rare
(< 1/10,000), and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data).
Table 3: Frequency of adverse reactions by system organ class
System Organ
Class
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare  Unknown
7
Pseudomembranous
colitis*
Candidiasis*
Gastro-
enteritis*
Pancytopenia*
Neutropenia*
Eosinophilia* 
Leukopenia*
Agranulocytosis*
Thrombocytopenia*
Thrombocytosis*
Seizures*
Anaphylactic
reactions*
Haemolytic
anaemia*
Bone
marrow
depression*
Hallucinations*
Encephalopathy* 
Confusional states*
Paraesthesia*
Myoclonic activity*
Focal tremor*
Dizziness*
Taste perversion*
Aggravatio
n of
myasthenia
gravis*
Headache*
Agitation*
Dyskinesia
*
Somnolence*
Hearing loss*
Infections and
infestations
Blood and
lymphatic
system
disorders
Immune
system 
disorders
Nervous
system 
disorders
Ear and
labyrinth 
disorders
Cardiac
disorders
Vertigo*
Tinnitus*
Cyanosis*
Tachycardi
a* 
Palpitations
*
Flushing* 
Dyspnoea*
Hyper-
ventilation* 
Pharyngeal
pain*
Vascular
disorders
Thrombophlebiti
s*
Hypotension* 
Respiratory,
thoracic and
mediastinal
disorders
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Staining of teeth
and/or tongue*
Hepatic failure*
Hepatitis*
Toxic epidermal
necrolysis*
Angioedema*
Stevens-Johnson
syndrome*
Erythema
multiforme*
Exfoliative
dermatitis*
Acute renal failure* 
Oliguria/anuria*
Polyuria* 
Urine discoloration
(harmless and
should not be
confused with
haematuria)*
Haemorrha
gic colitis*
Abdominal
pain*
Heartburn*
Glossitis* 
Tongue
papilla
hypertroph
y*
Increased
salivation*
Fulminant
hepatitis*
Jaundice*
Hyperhidro
sis*
Skin
texture
changes*
Polyarthral
gia*
Thoracic
spine pain*
Pruritus
vulvae*
Chest 
discomfort
*
Asthenia/
weakness*
Diarrhoea†*
Gastrointestinal
disorders
Nausea†* 
Vomiting†*
Hepatobiliary
disorders
Alanine
aminotransferase
increased†*
Aspartate
aminotransferase
increased†*
Skin and
subcutaneous
tissue disorders
Rash (e.g.,
exanthematous)*
Urticaria*
Pruritus*
Musculoskeleta
l and
connective
tissue disorders
Renal and
urinary 
disorders
Reproductive
system and 
breast disorders
General
disorders and
administration
site conditions
Elevations in serum
creatinine*
Fever*
Local pain and 
induration at the
injection site*
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coombs test
positive*
Prolonged
prothrombin time*
Investigations
Increases in
serum alkaline
phosphatase*
Decreased
haemoglobin*
Increases in serum
bilirubin*
Elevations in blood
urea nitrogen*
Blood
lactate
dehydroge
nase
increased*
*reported  with 
imipenem/cilastatin 
†reported with imipenem/cilastatin plus relebactam in Phase 2 (N = 431) and in Phase 3 (N = 266) studies
in  clinical  studies  or  during  post-marketing  experience  with
imipenem/cilastatin 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
In the event of overdose, discontinue Recarbrio, treat based on symptoms, and institute general
supportive treatment. Imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam can be removed by haemodialysis. No
clinical information is available on the use of haemodialysis to treat overdosage.
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antibacterials for systemic use, carbapenems, ATC code: J01DH56
Mechanism of action
The bactericidal activity of imipenem results from the inhibition of penicillin binding proteins (PBPs)
leading to inhibition of peptidoglycan cell wall synthesis.
Cilastatin limits the renal metabolism of imipenem and does not have antibacterial activity.
Relebactam is a non-beta lactam inhibitor of Ambler class A and class C beta-lactamases, including
class A Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC) and extended-spectrum beta-lactamases
(ESBLs), and class C (AmpC-type) beta-lactamases including Pseudomonas-Derived
Cephalosporinase (PDC). Relebactam does not inhibit class B enzymes (metallo-beta-lactamases) or
class D carbapenemases. Relebactam has no antibacterial activity.
Resistance
Mechanisms of resistance in Gram-negative bacteria that are known to affect imipenem/relebactam
include the production of metallo-beta-lactamases or oxacillinases with carbapenemase activity.
Expression of certain alleles of the class A beta-lactamase Guiana extended-spectrum beta-lactamase
(GES) and overexpression of PDC coupled with loss of imipenem entry porin OprD may confer
resistance to imipenem/relebactam in P. aeruginosa. The expression of efflux pumps in P. aeruginosa
10
 
does not affect activity of either imipenem or relebactam. Mechanisms of bacterial resistance that
could decrease the antibacterial activity of imipenem/relebactam in Enterobacterales include porin
mutations affecting outer membrane permeability.
Antibacterial activity in combination with other antibacterial agents
In vitro studies have demonstrated no antagonism between imipenem/relebactam and amikacin,
azithromycin, aztreonam, colistin, gentamicin, levofloxacin, linezolid, tigecycline, tobramycin, or
vancomycin.
Susceptibility testing breakpoints
Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) breakpoints established by the European Committee on
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) are as follows:
Organism group
Enterobacterales (except
Morganellaceae)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Acinetobacter spp.
Viridans group streptococci
Anaerobes, Gram-positive
Anaerobes, Gram-negative
Minimum Inhibitory Concentrations (mg/L)
Susceptible ≤ 
Resistant >
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship
Time that unbound plasma concentrations of imipenem exceed the imipenem/relebactam minimum
inhibitory concentration (% fT > MIC) has been shown to best correlate with efficacy. The ratio of the
24 - hour unbound plasma relebactam AUC to imipenem/relebactam MIC (fAUC / MIC) has been
determined to be the index that best predicts activity of relebactam.
Clinical efficacy against specific pathogens
Efficacy has been demonstrated in clinical studies against the pathogens listed under each indication
that were susceptible to imipenem and relebactam in vitro:
Hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia
Gram-negative micro-organisms
  Escherichia coli
  Haemophilus influenzae
  Klebsiella pneumoniae
  Pseudomonas aeruginosa
  Serratia marcescens
In vitro studies suggest that the following pathogens would be susceptible to imipenem and relebactam
in the absence of acquired mechanisms of resistance:
Gram-negative aerobic micro-organisms
  Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex
  Citrobacter spp. (including C. freundii and C. koseri)
  Enterobacter spp. (including E. asburiae and E. cloacae)
  Escherichia coli
  Klebsiella spp. (including K. aerogenes, K. oxytoca and K. pneumoniae)
  Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Serratia marcescens
11












 
Gram-negative anaerobic micro-organisms
  Bacteroides spp. (including B. fragilis)
  Fusobacterium spp. (including F. nucleatum and F. necrophorum)
  Prevotella spp. (including P. melaninogenica, P. bivia, and P. buccae)
Gram-positive aerobic micro-organisms
  Enterococcus faecalis
  Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin susceptible isolates only)
  Viridans group streptococci (including S. anginosus and S. constellatus)
In vitro studies indicate that the following species are not susceptible to imipenem and relebactam:
Gram-negative aerobic micro-organisms
  Legionella spp.
  Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with
Recarbrio in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of Gram-negative
bacterial infections (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
General introduction
The steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters of imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam in healthy adults
with normal renal function (CrCl 90 mL/min or greater), after multiple 30-minute intravenous
infusions of 500 mg imipenem/500 mg cilastatin + 250 mg relebactam administered every 6 hours are
summarised in Table 4. The steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters of imipenem and relebactam in
patients with cIAI or cUTI and HAP or VAP with normal renal function (90 mL/min
≤ CrCl < 150 mL/min) after multiple 30-minute intravenous infusions of 500 mg imipenem/500 mg
cilastatin + 250 mg relebactam administered every 6 hours are summarised in Tables 5 and 6,
respectively. Pharmacokinetic parameters were similar for single- and multiple-dose administration
due to minimal accumulation.
The C max and AUC of imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam increase in proportion to dose. The
elimination half-lives (t ½) of imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam are independent of dose.
Table 4: Steady-state geometric mean (% geometric co-efficient of variation) plasma
pharmacokinetic parameters of imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam after multiple intravenous
30-minute infusions of 500 mg imipenem/500 mg cilastatin + 250 mg relebactam every 6 hours in
healthy adults
Imipenem (n=6) 
Cilastatin (n=6) 
Relebactam (n=6)
AUC 0 – 6 hr (μM-hr) 
C max (μM) 
CL (L/hr) 
t 1/2 (hr)* 
138.0 (17.8) 
106.0 (26.8) 
12.0 (17.8) 
1.1 (±0.1) 
98.0 (17.0) 
96.4 (21.8) 
14.2 (17.0) 
1.0 (±0.1) 
81.6 (17.8)
48.3 (24.9)
8.8 (17.8)
1.7 (±0.2)
*Arithmetic mean (standard deviation) reported for t 1/2
AUC 0 – 6 hr = area  under  the  concentration  time  curve  from  0  to  6 hours;  C max = maximum
concentration; CL = plasma clearance; t 1/2= elimination half-life
12








 
Table 5: Population pharmacokinetic model based steady-state geometric mean (% geometric
co-efficient of variation) plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of imipenem and relebactam after
multiple intravenous 30-minute infusions of Recarbrio (500 mg imipenem/500 mg
cilastatin/250 mg relebactam) every 6 hours in cIAI or cUTI patients with CrCl 90 mL/min or
greater
AUC 0 – 24 hr (µM-hr)
C max (µM)
CL (L/hr)
t 1/2 (hr)* 
Imipenem
500.0 (56.3)
88.9 (62.1)
13.4 (56.3)
1.0 (±0.5) 
Relebactam
390.5 (44.5)
58.5 (44.9)
7.4 (44.5)
1.2 (±0.7)
*Arithmetic mean (standard deviation) reported for t 1/2
AUC 0 – 24 hr = area  under  the  concentration  time  curve  from  0 to  24 hours;  C max = maximum
concentration; CL = plasma clearance; t 1/2 = elimination half-life
Table 6: Population pharmacokinetic model based steady-state geometric mean (% geometric
co-efficient of variation) plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of imipenem and relebactam after
multiple intravenous 30-minute infusions of Recarbrio (500 mg imipenem/500 mg cilastatin +
250 mg relebactam) every 6 hours in HAP or VAP patients with CrCl 90 mL/min or greater 
AUC0 - 24hr (µM-hr)
Cmax (µM)
CL (L/hr) 
Imipenem
812.2 (59.4)
159.1 (62.3)
8.2 (59.4) 
Relebactam
655.2 (47.9)
87.6 (43.8)
4.4 (47.9)
AUC0 - 24hr=area under the concentration time curve from 0 to 24 hours; Cmax=maximum
concentration; CL=plasma clearance
Distribution
The binding of imipenem and cilastatin to human plasma proteins is approximately 20 % and 40 %,
respectively. The binding of relebactam to human plasma proteins is approximately 22 % and is
independent of concentration.
The steady-state volume of distribution of imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam is 24.3 L, 13.8 L, and
19.0 L, respectively, in subjects following multiple doses infused over 30 minutes every 6 hours.
The penetration into pulmonary epithelial lining fluid (ELF) expressed as the total ELF-to-unbound
plasma exposure ratio was 55 % and 54 % for imipenem and relebactam, respectively.
Biotransformation
Imipenem, when administered alone, is metabolised in the kidneys by dehydropeptidase-I, resulting in
low levels of imipenem (average of 15-20 % of the dose) recovered in human urine. Cilastatin, an
inhibitor of this enzyme, effectively prevents renal metabolism so that when imipenem and cilastatin
are given concomitantly, adequate levels of imipenem (approximately 70 % of the dose) are achieved
in the urine to enable antibacterial activity.
Cilastatin is mainly eliminated in the urine as unchanged parent drug (approximately 70 - 80 % of the
dose), with 10 % of the dose recovered as an N-acetyl metabolite, which has inhibitory activity against
dehydropeptidase-I comparable to the parent medicinal product.
Relebactam is cleared primarily via renal excretion as unchanged parent drug (greater than 90 % of the
dose) and is minimally metabolised. Unchanged relebactam was the only drug-related component
detected in human plasma.
13
Elimination
Imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam are mainly excreted by the kidneys.
Following multiple-dose administration of 500 mg imipenem, 500 mg cilastatin, and 250 mg
relebactam to healthy male subjects, approximately 63 % of the administered imipenem dose, and
77 % of the administered cilastatin dose are recovered as unchanged parent in the urine. The renal
excretion of imipenem and cilastatin involves both glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion.
Greater than 90 % of the administered relebactam dose was excreted unchanged in human urine. The
mean renal clearance for relebactam is 135 mL/min, close to the plasma clearance (148 mL/min),
indicating nearly complete elimination of relebactam by the renal route. The unbound renal clearance
of relebactam is greater than the glomerular filtration rate, suggesting that in addition to glomerular
filtration, active tubular secretion is involved in the renal elimination, accounting for ~ 30 % of the
total clearance.
Linearity/non-linearity
The pharmacokinetics of relebactam are linear across the 25 mg to 1150 mg dose range studied for a
single intravenous administration, and 50 mg to 625 mg dose range studied for multiple intravenous
administration every 6 hours up to 7 days. Minimal accumulation of imipenem, cilastatin or
relebactam was observed following multiple 30-minute intravenous infusions of relebactam (50 to
625 mg) co-administered with 500 mg imipenem/500 mg cilastatin every 6 hours up to 7 days in
healthy adult males with normal renal function.
Drug metabolizing enzymes
Studies evaluating the potential for imipenem or cilastatin to interact with CYP450 enzymes have not
been conducted.
Relebactam at clinically relevant concentrations does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8,
CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4 in vitro in human liver microsomes. Relebactam showed
no potential for in vitro induction of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 in human hepatocytes. Thus,
relebactam is unlikely to cause clinical drug-drug interactions via CYP-mediated pathways.
Imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam are all cleared primarily via renal excretion unchanged, with
metabolism as a minor elimination route. Thus, Recarbrio is unlikely to be subject to drug-drug
interactions when co-administered with CYP inhibitors or inducers.
Membrane transporters
Relebactam does not inhibit the following hepatic and renal transporters in vitro at clinically relevant
concentrations: OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, OCT2, P-gp, BCRP, MATE1, MATE2K, or
BSEP.
Relebactam is actively secreted into the urine. It is not a substrate of OAT1, OCT2, P-gp, BCRP,
MRP2, or MRP4 transporters, but is a substrate of OAT3, OAT4, MATE1 and MATE2K transporters.
The active tubular secretion accounts for only approximately 30 % of the total clearance of
relebactam, thus, the extent of drug-drug interaction due to inhibition of the tubular transporters is
expected to be of minimal clinical significance, which was confirmed with a clinical drug-drug
interaction study with probenecid and Recarbrio (see section 4.5).
Special populations
Renal impairment
In a clinical pharmacokinetic study and population pharmacokinetic analysis, clinically relevant
differences in exposure (AUC) were observed for imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam based on the
14
extent of renal impairment.
In the clinical study, imipenem geometric mean AUCs were up to 1.4 - fold, 1.5 - fold, and 2.5 - fold
higher in patients with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively, compared to healthy
subjects with normal renal function. The respective cilastatin geometric mean AUCs were up to
1.6 - fold, 1.9 - fold, and 5.6 - fold higher. Relebactam geometric mean AUCs were up to 1.6 - fold,
2.2 - fold, and 4.9 - fold higher in patients with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment,
respectively, compared to healthy subjects with normal renal function. In patients with End Stage
Renal Disease (ESRD) on haemodialysis, imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam are efficiently removed
by haemodialysis.
To maintain systemic exposures similar to patients with normal renal function, dose adjustment is
recommended for patients with renal impairment. ESRD patients on haemodialysis should receive
Recarbrio after haemodialysis session (see section 4.2).
Hepatic impairment
Imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam are primarily cleared renally; therefore, hepatic impairment is not
likely to have any effect on Recarbrio exposures (see section 4.2).
Elderly/gender
In a geriatric/gender study and population pharmacokinetic analysis no clinically relevant differences
in exposure (AUC) were observed for imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam based on age or gender,
apart from the effect of renal function (see section 4.2).
Race
Only a limited number of non-white patients were included in the clinical studies, but no major effect
of race on imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam pharmacokinetics is expected.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
Imipenem/cilastatin
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity studies.
Animal studies showed that the toxicity produced by imipenem, as a single entity, was limited to the
kidney. Co-administration of cilastatin with imipenem in a 1:1 ratio prevented the nephrotoxic effects
of imipenem in rabbits and monkeys. Available evidence suggests that cilastatin prevents the
nephrotoxicity by preventing entry of imipenem into the tubular cells. 
A teratology study in pregnant cynomolgus monkeys given imipenem/cilastatin sodium at doses of
40/40 mg/kg/day (bolus intravenous injection) resulted in maternal toxicity including emesis,
inappetence, body weight loss, diarrhoea, abortion, and death in some cases. When doses of
imipenem/cilastatin sodium (approximately 100/100 mg/kg/day or approximately 3 times the
recommended daily human intravenous dose) were administered to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys at
an intravenous infusion rate which mimics human clinical use, there was minimal maternal intolerance
(occasional emesis), no maternal deaths, no evidence of teratogenicity, but an increase in embryonic
loss relative to control groups (see section 4.6).
Long term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential of
imipenem/cilastatin.
15
Relebactam
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, reproduction toxicity, or genotoxicity. Carcinogenicity studies
have not been conducted with relebactam.
Relebactam administered intravenously to lactating rats at a dose of 450 mg/kg/day (GD 6 to LD 14),
was excreted into the milk with concentration of approximately 5 % that of maternal plasma
concentrations.
Animal studies show that relebactam given as a single entity caused renal tubular degeneration in
monkeys at AUC exposure 7-fold the human AUC exposure at the maximum recommended human
dose (MRHD). Renal tubular degeneration was shown to be reversible after dose discontinuation.
There was no evidence of nephrotoxicity at AUC exposures less than or equal to 3-fold the human
AUC exposure at the MRHD.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Sodium hydrogen carbonate
6.2 
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life
Dry powder
30 months.
After constitution and dilution
Diluted solutions should be used immediately. The time interval between the beginning of
reconstitution and the end of intravenous infusion should not exceed two hours.
6.4  Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Keep vials in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
For storage conditions after constitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
20 mL glass vial, with 20 mm rubber stopper and aluminium crimp cap seal.
This medicinal product is supplied in packs of 25 vials.
16
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Recarbrio is supplied as a dry powder in a single-dose vial that must be constituted and further diluted
using aseptic technique prior to intravenous infusion as outlined below:
  To prepare the infusion solution, contents of the vial must be transferred to 100 mL of an
appropriate infusion solution (see sections 6.2 and 6.3): 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) sodium chloride. In
exceptional circumstances where 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) sodium chloride cannot be used for clinical
reasons 5 % glucose may be used instead.
  Withdraw 20 mL (10 mL times 2) of diluent from the appropriate infusion bag and constitute
the vial with 10 mL of the diluent. The constituted suspension must not be administered by
direct intravenous infusion.
  After constitution, shake vial well and transfer resulting suspension into the remaining 80 mL
of the infusion bag.
  Add the additional 10 mL of infusion diluent to the vial and shake well to ensure complete
transfer of vial contents; repeat transfer of the resulting suspension to the infusion solution
before administering. Agitate the resulting mixture until clear.
  Constituted solutions of Recarbrio range from colorless to yellow. Variations of color within
this range do not affect the potency of the product.
  For patients with renal insufficiency, a reduced dose of Recarbrio will be administered
according to the patient's CrCl, as determined from Table 7. Prepare 100 mL of infusion
solution as directed above. Select the volume (mL) of the final infusion solution needed for
the appropriate dose of Recarbrio as shown in Table 7.
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration
prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Discard if discoloration or visible
particles are observed.
Table 7: Preparation of Recarbrio doses
Creatinine
Clearance
(mL/min)
Dosage of Recarbrio
(imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam)
(mg)
Volume (mL) of Solution
to be Removed and
Discarded from
Preparation
Volume (mL) of
Final Infusion
Solution Needed for
Dosage
Greater than
or equal to 90
Less than 90
to greater than
or equal to 60
Less than 60
to greater than
or equal to 30
Less than 30
to greater than
or equal to 15
or ESRD on
haemodialysis
500/500/250
N/A
100
400/400/200
300/300/150
200/200/100 
20
40
60 
80
60
40
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
Compatible medicinal products
The physical compatibility of Recarbrio with selected injectable medicinal products was evaluated in
two commonly available diluents at a Y-infusion site. Compatible medicinal products with the
corresponding compatible diluent (i.e., 5 % Dextrose Injection or 0.9 % Sodium chloride Injection) are
listed below. Recarbrio should not be co-administered through the same intravenous line (or cannula),
with other medicinal products not listed below, as no compatibility data are available. Refer to the
respective prescribing information of the co-administered medicinal product(s) to confirm
17






compatibility of simultaneous co-administration. This medicinal product must not be mixed with other
medicinal products except those mentioned below.
List of Compatible Injectable Medicinal Products for use with 5 % Dextrose or 0.9 % Sodium chloride
Injection as Diluents
  dexmedetomidine
  dopamine
  epinephrine
  fentanyl
  heparin
  midazolam
  norepinephrine
  phenylephrine
Compatible intravenous bags and infusion set materials
Recarbrio is compatible with the following intravenous container bags and infusion set materials. Any
intravenous bags or infusion set materials not listed below should not be used.
Intravenous Container Bag Materials
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and polyolefin (polypropylene and polyethylene)
Intravenous Infusion Set Materials (with tubing)
PVC + Di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) and polyethylene (PE)-lined PVC
Incompatible medicinal products
Recarbrio for solution for infusion is physically incompatible with propofol in 5 % Dextrose (also
named Glucose) or 0.9 % Sodium chloride.
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1420/001
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 13 February 2020
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
18








ANNEX II
A. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B. 
C. 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
19
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
FAREVA Mirabel
Route de Marsat
Riom
63963, Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9
France
B.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
20

 

 


ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
21
A. LABELLING
22
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Recarbrio 500 mg/500 mg/250 mg powder for solution for infusion
imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains imipenem monohydrate equivalent to 500 mg of imipenem, cilastatin sodium
equivalent to 500 mg of cilastatin and relebactam monohydrate equivalent to 250 mg of relebactam.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains sodium hydrogen carbonate.
See package leaflet for further information.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Powder for solution for infusion
25 vials
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intravenous use after dilution.
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Read the leaflet for the shelf life of the reconstituted product
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Keep vials in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
23
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39 
2031 BN Haarlem 
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1420/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
24
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
Vial label
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Recarbrio 500 mg/500 mg/250 mg powder for solution for infusion
imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam
IV use after dilution
Intravenous use after dilution
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.  OTHER
MSD 
25
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
26
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Recarbrio 500 mg/500 mg/250 mg powder for solution for infusion
imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4
for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important
information for you.
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Recarbrio is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you are given Recarbrio
3.  How you are given Recarbrio
4.  Possible side effects
5.  How to store Recarbrio
6.  Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Recarbrio is and what it is used for
Recarbrio is an antibiotic. It contains the active substances imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam.
Recarbrio is used in adults to treat:
certain bacterial infections of the lungs (pneumonia)
infections of the blood associated with the infections of the lung mentioned above
infections caused by bacteria that other antibiotics may not be able to kill
Recarbrio is used in patients 18 years or older.
2.  What you need to know before you are given Recarbrio
You should not be given Recarbrio if:
  you are allergic to imipenem, cilastatin, relebactam or any of the other ingredients of this medicine
(listed in section 6)
  you are allergic to carbapenem antibiotics 
  you ever had a severe allergic reaction to penicillin antibiotics or cephalosporin antibiotics
You should not be given Recarbrio if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your
doctor or nurse before being given Recarbrio.
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before being given Recarbrio if:
  you are allergic to any medicines - especially antibiotics
  you have ever had convulsions (seizures or fits)
  you have ever had confusion or muscle twitches with a medicine
  you are taking a medicine containing valproic acid
  you have had diarrhoea while taking antibiotics in the past
  you have kidney problems – your doctor may lower your dose
27

 

 

 

 

 

 









Tell your doctor right away if you have an allergic reaction, convulsions (seizures or fits), diarrhoea,
or develop kidney problems while receiving Recarbrio (see section 3).
Children and adolescents
Recarbrio should not be used in children or adolescents who are under 18 years of age. This is because
it is not known if the medicine is safe to use in these patients.
Other medicines and Recarbrio
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, especially if you take:
  medicines that contain ganciclovir, used for treating some viral infections
  medicines that contain valproic acid or divalproex sodium, usually used for treating epilepsy,
bipolar disorder, or migraine
  medicines to control blood clotting, such as warfarin
Pregnancy and breastfeeding
If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask
your doctor for advice before being given this medicine.
Driving and using machines
Recarbrio may make you feel dizzy, shaky, or cause convulsions or seizures. This may affect your
ability to drive or use machines.
Recarbrio contains sodium
This medicine contains approximately 37.5 mg of sodium (main component of cooking/ table salt) in
each vial. This is equivalent to about 2 % of the adult recommended maximum amount of sodium you
should take daily, and needs to be taken into account if you are on a low-salt diet.
3.  How you are given Recarbrio
The usual dose is one vial (containing 500 mg imipenem, 500 mg cilastatin, and 250 mg relebactam)
every 6 hours. If you have kidney problems, your doctor may lower your dose.
It is given as a drip directly into a vein (‘intravenous infusion’). The infusion will last 30 minutes.
The course of treatment usually lasts from 5 up to 14 days, depending on the type of infection you
have and how you respond to treatment.
If you are given more Recarbrio than you should
Recarbrio will be given to you by a doctor or a nurse, so it is unlikely you will be given the wrong
dose. If you think you have been given too much Recarbrio, tell your doctor or nurse right away.
If you miss a dose of Recarbrio
Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you think you were not given your dose of Recarbrio.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
28



Serious side effects
Tell your doctor right away if you notice any of the following serious side effects - the medicine must
be stopped:
allergic reactions – the signs may include hives, swelling of the face, lips, tongue or throat,
difficulty in breathing or swallowing
severe skin reactions (e.g., severe rash, skin peeling or blistering)
Other side effects
Common: (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
  nausea, being sick (vomiting), diarrhoea
  blood test results that may show changes in the liver
  blood test results that may show an increase in the number of some types of blood cells called
‘eosinophils’
  blood test results that may show an increase in some white blood cells
rash
inflammation and pain caused by a blood clot in the vein
Uncommon: (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
  hives
skin itchiness
convulsions (fits) and nervous system problems like tremor
confusion
seeing, hearing or feeling something that is not there (hallucinations)
  dizziness, sleepiness
low blood pressure
  blood test results that may show changes in the kidney
  blood test results that may show a decrease in the number of red blood cells, white blood cells, and
blood cells called platelets
  blood test results that may show an increase in the number of some blood cells called platelets
abnormal kidney, liver, and blood function detected by blood tests
  pain or redness or formation of a lump where the medicine was injected
fever
  blood test (called a Coombs test) results showing antibodies that can cause anaemia by destroying
red blood cells
Rare: (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
fungal infection (candidiasis)
changes in taste
  disease of the brain, tingling sensation (pins and needles), localised tremor
  hearing loss
staining of the teeth and/or tongue
inflammation of the colon with severe diarrhoea (colitis)
low number of white blood cells which may make it difficult for your body to fight infections
inflammation of the liver
liver failure
inability of the kidney to perform normal function
changes in the amount of urine, changes in urine color
swelling of the skin
  painful rash with flu-like symptoms
redness and scaling of the skin
Very rare: (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
inflammation of stomach or intestine (gastro-enteritis)
anaemia due to destruction of red blood cells, leading to symptoms like tiredness, pale skin
  headache
29

 

 





 

 


 

 

 

 


 




 


 


 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

  worsening of a rare disease associated with muscle weakness (aggravation of myasthenia gravis)
a spinning sensation (vertigo)
ringing in the ears (tinnitus)
irregular heartbeat, the heart beating forcefully or rapidly
chest discomfort, difficulty breathing, abnormally fast and superficial breathing, pain in the upper
spine
  pain in the throat
flushing, bluish discoloration of the face and lips, changes in skin texture, excessive sweating
increase in the production of saliva
inflammation of intestine with bloody diarrhoea (haemorrhagic colitis)
stomach pain
  heartburn 
red swollen tongue, overgrowth of the normal projections on the tongue giving it a hairy
appearance
severe loss of liver function due to inflammation (fulminant hepatitis)
  pain in several joints
itching of the vulva in women
  weakness, lack of energy
Not known: (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)
agitation
abnormal movements
jaundice (yellowing of your skin and eyes)
  blood tests showing an increase in a substance called lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) which may be a
sign of tissue damage
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this
medicine.
5.  How to store Recarbrio
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the container. The expiry date refers
to the last day of that month.
Keep this medicine in the outer carton to protect from light.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines
you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Recarbrio contains 
  The active substances are imipenem, cilastatin, and relebactam. Each vial contains 500 mg
imipenem, 500 mg cilastatin, and 250 mg relebactam.
  The other ingredient is sodium hydrogen carbonate.
What Recarbrio looks like and contents of the pack
Recarbrio is a white to light yellow powder supplied for solution for infusion in glass vials. Pack size
is 25 vials.
30


 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 


 

 


 


 

 

 



Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
Manufacturer
FAREVA Mirabel
Route de Marsat, Riom
63963, Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9
France
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.
Tel: +420 233 010 111 
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: + 45 4482 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel: + 370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 888 5300
hungary_msd@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Nederland
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+49 (0) 89 4561 0)
Tel: 0800 9999000 
e-mail@msd.de
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: +372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Ελλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
(+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 4465700
31
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com 
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 529 29 00
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila d.o.o.
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: + 354 535 7000
Italia
MSD Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Tel: +386 1 5204 201
msd.slovenia@merck.com
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650
info@msd.fi
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Tel: + 371 67364224
msd_lv@merck.com
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Recarbrio is supplied as a dry powder in a single-dose vial that must be constituted and further diluted
using aseptic technique prior to intravenous infusion as outlined below:
  To prepare the infusion solution, contents of the vial must be transferred to 100 mL of an
appropriate infusion solution: 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) sodium chloride. In exceptional
circumstances where 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) sodium chloride cannot be used for clinical
reasons 5 % glucose may be used instead.
  Withdraw 20 mL (10 mL times 2) of diluent from the appropriate infusion bag and
constitute the vial with 10 mL of the diluent. The constituted suspension must not be
administered by direct intravenous infusion.
  After constitution, shake vial well and transfer resulting suspension into the remaining
80 mL of the infusion bag.
32



  Add the additional 10 mL of infusion diluent to the vial and shake well to ensure complete
transfer of vial contents; repeat transfer of the resulting suspension to the infusion solution
before administering. Agitate the resulting mixture until clear. 
  Constituted solutions of Recarbrio range from colorless to yellow. Variations of color
within this range do not affect the potency of the product.
  For patients with renal insufficiency, a reduced dose of Recarbrio will be administered
according to the patient's CrCl, as determined from the table below. Prepare 100 mL of
infusion solution as directed above. Select the volume (mL) of the final infusion solution
needed for the appropriate dose of Recarbrio as shown in the table below.
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration
prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Discard if discoloration or visible
particles are observed.
Preparation of Recarbrio Doses
Dosage of Recarbrio
(imipenem/cilastatin/relebactam)
(mg)
Volume (mL) of Solution to
be Removed and Discarded
from Preparation
Volume (mL) of
Final Infusion
Solution Needed for
Dosage
500/500/250
400/400/200
300/300/150
200/200/100 
N/A
20
40
60 
100
80
60
40
Creatinine
Clearance
(mL/min)
Greater than
or equal to 90
Less than 90
to greater than
or equal to 60
Less than 60
to greater than
or equal to 30
Less than 30
to greater than
or equal to 15
or ESRD on
haemodialysis
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
Compatible medicinal products
The physical compatibility of Recarbrio with selected injectable medicinal products was evaluated in
two commonly available diluents at a Y-infusion site. Compatible medicinal products with the
corresponding compatible diluent (i.e., 5 % Dextrose Injection or 0.9 % Sodium chloride Injection) are
listed below. Recarbrio should not be co-administered through the same intravenous line (or cannula),
with other medicinal products not listed below, as no compatibility data are available. Refer to the
respective prescribing information of the co-administered medicinal product(s) to confirm
compatibility of simultaneous co-administration. This medicinal product must not be mixed with other
medicinal products except those mentioned below.
List of Compatible Injectable Medicinal Products for use with 5 % Dextrose or 0.9 % Sodium chloride
Injection as Diluents
  dexmedetomidine
  dopamine
  epinephrine
  fentanyl
  heparin
  midazolam
  norepinephrine
  phenylephrine
33











Compatible intravenous bags and infusion set materials
Recarbrio is compatible with the following intravenous container bags and infusion set materials. Any
intravenous bags or infusion set materials not listed below should not be used.
Intravenous Container Bag Materials
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and polyolefin (polypropylene and polyethylene)
Intravenous Infusion Set Materials (with tubing)
PVC + Di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) and polyethylene (PE)-lined PVC
Incompatible medicinal products
Recarbrio for solution for infusion is physically incompatible with propofol in 5 % Dextrose (also
named Glucose) or 0.9 % Sodium chloride.
After constitution and dilution
Diluted solutions should be used immediately. The time interval between the beginning of
reconstitution and the end of intravenous infusion should not exceed two hours. 
34
