European Medicines Agency 
London, 02 March 2009 
Doc ref No: EMEA/55167/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
REFACTO AF 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
moroctocog alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/II/59-68 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. 
STEPS TAKEN FOR THE ASSESSMENT 
Submission date:  
Start of procedure: 
Rapporteur’s  preliminary assessment report 
circulated on: 
BWP discussion: 
BPWP Discussion 
1st  CHMP Request for supplementary 
information and extension of timetable 
adopted by the CHMP on : 
16 May 2007 
22 July 2007 
26 July 2007 
12 September 2007 
September 2007 
20 September 2007 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on :  21 January 2008 
Joint Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment 
report on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
BPWP Report 
BWP Report : 
2nd CHMP Request for supplementary 
information and extension of timetable 
adopted by the CHMP on : 
29 February 2008, updated 13 March 2008 
February 2008 
12 March 2008 
19 March 2008 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on :  28 April 2008 
Joint Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment 
report on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
2 June 2008 
BWP Report: 
BPWP Report 
3rd CHMP Request for supplementary 
information and extension of timetable 
adopted by the CHMP on : 
18 June 2008 
June 2008 
26 June 2008 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on :  27 August 2008 
Joint Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment 
report on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
BPWP Report 
8 October 2008 
October 2008 
PhVig Discussion 
October 2008 
4th CHMP Request for supplementary 
information and extension of timetable 
adopted by the CHMP on : 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on :  17 November 2008 
1 December 2008 
23 October 2008 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
BPWP Report 
CHMP Opinion 
27-28 November 2008 
18 December 2008 
2/70 
 
 
 
III.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
3.1. 
Introduction 
A comprehensive set of variations have, in parallel, been submitted for ReFacto, concerning various 
changes throughout the manufacturing process of drug substance and drug product.  
The variations submitted are the following: 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/59  Use of peptide resin instead of MAb resin 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/60  Introduction of virus retaining filter 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/61  Increase in batch size for 2000IU strength 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/62  Qualification of second lyophilizer 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/63  Drug product specification changes 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/64  Head space change (nitrogen overlay) 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/65  Drug substance and drug product assay changes 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/66  Potency standard calibration change 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/67  Change in drug product container closure system 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/68  Albumin free cell culture process and consequential changes in the 
substance manufacturing process  
About the product 
ReFacto is a B-domain deleted recombinant FVIII (BDDrFVIII) product that was granted a marketing 
authorisation  by  the  European  Commission  on  13  April  1999  for  the  treatment  and  prophylaxis  of 
bleeding  in  patients  with  haemophilia  A.  Haemophilia  A  is  an  X-linked  recessive  bleeding  disorder 
caused by a partial or total deficiency of functionally active coagulation factor VIII (FVIII). ReFacto is 
a purified protein produced by recombinant DNA technology. ReFacto, as per the initial authorisation, 
is a monoclonal antibody purified, solvent-detergent treated, and albumin-free formulated BDDrFVIII. 
Clinical development programme 
The clinical development programme to support the approval of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) for use in 
patients  with  hemophilia  A  was  initiated  in  2002  and  included  2  pivotal  studies  conducted  with 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  substance  produced  at  the  commercial  site  (Biovitrum,  Sweden)  but 
lyophilized  at  a  non-commercial  site  (Andover,  US)  and  3  supportive  studies  conducted  with  a 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  supplied  by  a  pilot  plant.  These  studies  were  intended  to  establish  the 
bioequivalence of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) and ReFacto, the bioequivalence of moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) and a currently marketed full-length Factor VIII product, Advate, and also to establish the initial 
efficacy  and  safety  profile  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  when  used  for  prophylaxis,  on  demand 
treatment, and surgical treatment. 
The assessment of the clinical documentation did not raise concerns about compliance with GMP or 
GCP.  Based on the assessment no inspections were regarded as necessary. 
Licensing status in other countries 
The labelled potency of ReFacto AF is based on the European Pharmacopoeial chromogenic substrate 
assay,  in  which  the  manufacturing  potency  standard  has  been  calibrated  to  the  WHO  International 
Standard  using  the  chromogenic  substrate  assay.  Another  moroctocog  alfa  product  approved  for  use 
outside Europe has a different potency assigned using a manufacturing potency standard that has been 
calibrated  to  the  WHO  International  Standard  using  a  one-stage  clotting  assay;  this  product  is 
identified  by  the  tradename  XYNTHA.  Due  to  the  difference  in  methods  used  to  assign  product 
potency of XYNTHA and ReFacto AF, 1 IU of the XYNTHA product (one-stage assay calibrated) is 
approximately equivalent to 1.38 IU of the ReFacto AF product (chromogenic assay calibrated). 
The  ReFacto  AF  product,  with  calibration  of  the  working  potency  standard  by  the  chromogenic 
substrate assay, is intended for the EU market and for regions in close geographic proximity, such as 
Switzerland and Russia. In addition, the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration has requested 
the chromogenically aligned product, ReFacto AF. The MAH will amend the approved application for 
3/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Xyntha product in New Zealand as appropriate to substitute the chromogenically aligned product 
for continuity of product supply of ReFacto AF in this region. The Xyntha product, with calibration of 
the working potency standard by the one-stage assay versus the WHO 7th IS, is approved and will be 
marketed in the US and Canada.  
3.2.  Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological,  
Background and rationale for the variations 
The  MAH,  in  May  2007  applied  for  several  changes  to  the  manufacturing  process  of  ReFacto, 
including active substance (moroctocog alfa) manufactured using an albumin-free cell culture process 
(moroctocog alfa [AFCC]). Several other modifications of the manufacturing process covering almost 
the  entire  drug  substance  and  drug  product  processes  were  applied  for  to  improve  robustness  and 
productivity.  
The  ReFacto  AF-CC  modified  manufacturing  process  used  the  original  cell  line  for  manufacture  of 
ReFacto  to  generate  a  new  master  cell  bank  and  removed  the  use  of  human  serum  albumin  (HSA) 
from the cell culture process. To minimize potential product impact, the same production cell line that 
had been used for the original ReFacto cell banks was adapted to grow in HSA-free medium and laid 
down in new cell banks, thus eliminating the bovine proteins present in the current cell banks (fetal 
bovine serum in the master cell bank (MCB) and working cell bank (WCB).  Thus, the new master cell 
bank was not derived from a new transfection. 
For  the  drug  substance  purification  process  the  monoclonal  antibody  capture  step  has  been  replaced 
with  a  capture  step  with  a  chemically  synthesised  peptide  affinity  ligand,  replacing  the  murine 
monoclonal antibody sepharose resin. This eliminates a potential risk of viral contamination associated 
with the murine monoclonal antibody and its manufacture.  
In addition to the removal of HSA from the cell banks and fermentation process a virus retaining filter 
has been introduced in the purification process in order to further improve the overall viral safety of 
the product.  
Finally a potency standard calibration change has been proposed. It is proposed that the drug substance 
and  drug  product  potency  is  assigned  with  a  reference  material  calibrated  against  the  current  7th 
International  WHO  Standard  for  FVIII  products.  The  assay  for  the  calibration  remains  the  Ph.  Eur 
chromogenic substrate assay, in line with the assay for potency assignment of the drug substance and 
drug product potency and in accordance with Ph. Eur.  
A programme was designed to assess the structural and functional comparability of moroctocog alfa 
drug substance made from the current process and the AF-CC moroctocog alfa drug substance made 
from albumin-free cell culture process. 
There  are  no  changes  to  the  drug  product  formulation.    Drug  product  manufactured  using  the  drug 
substance  from  the  moroctocog  alfa  AF-CC  process  has  been  qualified  in  a  second,  functionally 
identical lyophilizer, will use tubing vials (versus the current molded vials) with a compatible stopper, 
and will incorporate a nitrogen overlay instead of a vacuum. Comparability of drug product made at 
the clinical (Wyeth, Andover fill and finish facility) and commercial (Wyeth Farma) drug product fill 
sites has been established through process comparison, lyophilized powder characterization, structural 
and biophysical characterization of the active ingredient, stability studies and results of routine release 
assays, which include biochemical analyses. 
In  view  of  the  major  changes  applied  to  the  manufacturing  of  ReFacto,  the  MAH  submitted  a  fully 
revised module 3, covering the drug substance and drug product manufacturing process.  
Overall discussion: 
During the assessment of the submitted variations (EMEA/H/C/232/II/59-68), three main areas were 
identified as major concerns for which additional data were requested from the MAH.  
These areas related to: 
•  The use of non-commercial site for manufacture of non-clinical and clinical supply,  
•  Change  in  N-linked  oligosaccharide  profile  of  AF-CC  moroctocog  alfa  compared  to  current 
moroctocog alfa and  
•  The proposed potency calibration. 
4/70 
 
 
 
 
 
With  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  Requests  for  Supplementary  Information  (RSI),  the  Applicant 
provided  an  extensive  amount  of  information  and  data,  together  with  a  fully  updated  Module  3 
addressing satisfactorily all remaining issues and earlier major objections.  
1)  Non-commercial sites  
All AF-CC moroctocog alfa materials used in the non-clinical- and main part of the supportive clinical 
studies  (305,  306  and  307),  were  manufactured  at  sites  different  from  the  commercial  AF-CC  drug 
substance  manufacturing  site  (Biovitrum,  Stockholm)  and  AF-CC  drug  product  site  (Wyeth  Farma, 
Madrid).  Further  information  and  data  were  requested  on  these  non-commercial  sites  to  conclude 
whether AF-CC material is representative for the commercial AF-CC material. 
All  data  provided  to  address  this  request,  support  that  AF-CC  drug  substance  and  drug  product 
manufactured  at  the  different  non-commercial  sites  are  comparable  to  each  other  and  with  the  drug 
substance  manufactured  at  the  commercial  site  and  current  ReFacto,  apart  from  the  N-linked 
oligosaccharide differences described below. The non-commercial site issue is resolved. 
It was noted that potency is one highly important parameter in the comparability exercise. However, 
potency  data  are  not  easily  compared  as  they  have  been  generated  by  use  of  reference  standards 
available at time of manufacture (6th or 7th IS) together with different calibration approaches (further 
discussed  below).  However,  for  the  purpose  of  demonstrating  comparability  of  AF-CC  sites  and 
material  to  the  current  ReFacto,  the  potency  results  and  subsequent  specific  activity  values  for 
representative ReFacto lots were revised/recalculated to reflect the proposed commercial AF-CC CS-
calibrated potency standard to the 7th IS. These data show comparable results  among sites  also with 
regard to potency/specific activity. 
Viral safety 
One other Major objection was raised based on the non-commercial site issue, which were related to 
the  viral  safety  evaluation.  The  viral  safety  evaluation  of  the  AF-CC  drug  substance  process  clearly 
demonstrated  acceptable  viral  safety  of  the  process  but  as  it  was  conducted  with  material  from  the 
non-commercial Andover Pilot Plant, no final conclusion on the validity could be drawn. Based on the 
above conclusion on the various sites, the virus validation is concluded to be acceptable and the issue 
resolved.  
2)  N-linked oligosaccharide profile 
The observed overall sialylation state of AF-CC moroctocog alfa compared to current moroctocog alfa 
needed initially to be further confirmed and addressed. The requested data for AF-CC drug substance 
further  supported  the  observed  shift  in  glycosylation  profile.  AF-CC  material  has  a  slightly  lower 
amount of non- and mono-sialylation and a slightly higher amount of di- and trisialylation compared 
to current material. 
It should be noted that the “AF-CC sialylation phenotype” is intrinsic to the AF-CC process and has 
been consistent throughout the AF-CC development.  
The higher level of sialylation implied by the N-linked oligosaccharide profile of moroctocog alfa AF-
CC could theoretically result in a slight increase in recovery or elongation of half-life. Non-clinical-, 
clinical- and PK data has confirmed, that this is not the case.  
This issue is therefore considered resolved.  
3)  Potency calibration 
The current ReFacto potency reference standard is chromogenic substrate assay calibrated, against the 
6th IS, and drug substance and drug product is potency released by chromogenic substrate assay. 
Originally,  the  intention  of  the  Applicant  was  to  determine  the  AF-CC  drug  substance  and  drug 
product  potency  by  use  of  a  7th  International  Standard  (IS)  FVIII:C  Concentrate  (99/678)  calibrated 
potency  reference.  This  approach  was  acceptable,  as  the  6th  IS  has  been  replaced  with  the  7th  IS. 
However, the Applicant further intended to use the one-stage assay for the calibration. This approach 
was  chosen  by  the  Applicant,  because  the  use  of  one-stage  assay  is  more  in  line  with  clinical 
5/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measurements of the ReFacto activity using a one-stage assay. Release of AF-CC drug substance and 
drug  product  would  be  conducted  by  chromogenic  assay  in  compliance  with  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia. The use of one-stage assay for calibration of the potency standard against the 7th IS is 
not  in  compliance  with  the  European  Pharmacopoeia.  Calibration  of  a  reference  standard  should  be 
conducted with the same assay as the release assay.  
The  Applicant  proposed  to  re-calibrate  the  AF-CC  potency  reference  material  against  the  7th 
International Standard (IS), by use of chromogenic substrate assay. The potency measure of AF-CC is  
therefore done in the same way as for current ReFacto, with the exception that the 6th IS is replaced by 
7th IS. 
The 6th IS was a full-length recombinant preparation whereas the 7th IS is a high-purity plasma-derived 
FVIII standard, and the two International Standards thereby different in nature. It is well known that 
potency  measures  of  different  FVIII  products  can  give  rise  to  discrepancy  in  results,  depending  on 
which International Standard is used for the measurement (5th, 6th or 7th IS). Further, it is also known 
that the potency measure of FVIII products may be dependent on the assay used. For ReFacto there is 
a discrepancy between the results obtained for moroctocog alfa in the CS assay and the OS assay of 
around  40%,  with  the  OS  assay  measuring  the  lowest  potency.  As  a  consequence  of  the  originally 
proposed change from CS to OS calibration of the AF-CC reference material, together with a change 
from  6th  to  7th  IS,  which  further  adds  to  the  discrepancy  in  results,  the  Applicant  considered  that 
around  50-65%  more  protein  should  be  added  to  the  drug  product  vials  to  comply  with  the  labelled 
potency.  
With the new proposal to use chromogenic substrate assay for calibration of the potency standard, the 
only  factor  giving  rise  to  discrepancy  in  potency  results  is  the  change  from  6th  to  7th  IS.  For 
moroctocog alfa the different nature of 6th and 7th IS leads to a 14% difference in potency measure. As 
a consequence addition of around 14% more protein in the AF-CC drug product vials, compared to the 
current  ReFacto  vials,  is  expected.  Addition  of  extra  protein,  as  a  consequence  of  a  change  in 
International  Standard  is  acceptable  and  in  line  with  previous  experiences  with  ReFacto  and  other 
FVIII  products.  Several  investigations  and  measurements  of  current  moroctocog  alfa  and  AF-CC 
moroctocog alfa against the re-calibrated CS potency reference, support that the necessary change in 
protein content is due to the replacement of the 6th IS with the 7th IS and is not caused by the shift from 
the current manufacturing process to the AF-CC process. 
Potency and specific activity release specifications for AF-CC drug substance and drug product have 
been re-calculated to comply with the CS-calibration approach. 
Based on discussion at the March Biologics Working Party (BWP) meeting, the CHMP concluded that 
in view of the experience of variability in Factor VIII potency measurements and the specific history 
of  recalibration  of  ReFacto  reference  standard,  further  involvement  of  OMCL  laboratories  for  the 
calibration  of  the  AF-CC  reference  standard  was  considered  necessary.  It  was  recommended  by  the 
CHMP that this potency confirmation of the AF-CC potency standard took place within the Sampling 
and Testing Programmeme 2008 for ReFacto with RIVM (NL) and MPA (SE) as OMCLs appointed 
by EDQM. 
The appointed OMCLs labs by EDQM were RIVM (NL) and MPA (SE). Testing was carried out in 
April,  within  the,  already  scheduled,  Sampling  and  Testing  Programmeme  2008  for  ReFacto.  The 
reporting of results was submitted to the EMEA at the end of May 2008 and satisfactory conclusion 
was  reached  by  the  CHMP  in  their  June  2008  meeting  after  adoption  of  the  BWP  favourable 
recommendations.  
The OMCL report concluded that:  
“Potency obtained by testing OMCLs for batches of finished products tested are coherent with potency 
values  claimed  by  the  MAH  when  using  batch  TS20040265  as  reference  standard  and  the  method 
registered in the MAH marketing authorisation file. 
6/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the results reported by the two testing OMCLs there is currently no indication showing that 
the potency value claimed by the MAH for new internal standard batch TS20040265 is incorrect when 
using the method registered in the MAH marketing authorisation file.  
In addition to the EDQM request for testing, when the RIVM-BMT (NL) compared Coamatic (routine 
method  at  RIVM)  potency  results  with  Coatest  (method  used  by  the  MAH)  results,  RIVM  reported 
different results. Such discrepancy was not found by the MPA Swedish colleagues in their laboratory. 
The discrepant results (Coamatic vs. Coatest) is not included in the OMCL report. It was noted that the 
RIVM routine method is not validated for use with ReFacto. This finding will be further investigated 
as  a  follow-up  measure:  The  MAH  committed  to  solve  the  issues  with  ReFacto  potency  testing  and 
work together with the Rapporteur (DK) and interested OMCLs. 
Reference material 
On  request  more  information  was  provided  on  the  AF-CC  reference  standard  used  over  the  time  of 
development of the AF-CC process. The information includes site of production and all available data 
on release testing as well as additional characterisation studies. 
Based  on  the  conclusion  reached  on  the  non-commercial  site  issue  (see  above),  that  the  site  of 
production is without effect on the quality of the AF-CC material produced, together with the updated 
data  package  provided  on  the  various  AF-CC  reference  standards,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the 
reference  standards  used  for  the  manufacture  of  clinical  material  are  representative  for  commercial 
material. The issue is considered solved. 
7/70 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall conclusion: 
Based  on  the  review  of  the  data  on  quality,  the  variation  applications  EMEA/H/C/23/II/59-68,  for 
ReFacto (moroctocog alfa), in the treatment of haemophilia A, were approved.  
3.3 Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  non-clinical  programme  for  ReFacto  AF  includes  a  pharmacology  study  conducted  in 
haemophilia A dogs comparing the pharmacodynamic effects of ReFacto AF and ReFacto. Moreover, 
a  GLP-compliant  4-week  toxicity  study  has  been  conducted  in  monkeys.  In  addition,  a  study  was 
conducted  in  rats  to  evaluate  the  acute  toxicity  of  the  novel  TN8.2  affinity  ligand  used  in  the 
moroctocog  alfa  process.  Considering  that  the  pharmacologic,  pharmacokinetic  and  safety  profile  of 
ReFacto was characterised in the original application (EMEA/H/C/232), the extent of the non-clinical 
programme for ReFacto AF is considered adequate. 
Overall, the pharmacodynamic effects of ReFacto and ReFacto AF were comparable in Haemophilia 
A  dogs.  A  29/30-day  I.V.  repeat-dose  toxicity  study  was  conducted  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  daily 
administered ReFacto AF. For comparison, the report from a study with a similar design included in 
the  original  ReFacto  marketing  authorisation  application  has  been  submitted.  A  reduction  of  around 
10% in red blood cell count accompanied by a 50% increase in reticulocytes was observed in females 
administered 50 I.U./kg ReFacto AF. Moreover, atrial oedema and uterus haemorrhage was detected 
in  2/3  and  1/3  females,  respectively.  No  reduction  in  Factor  VIII  activity  was  observed  at  this  dose 
level.  The  no-observed-adverse-effect  level  (NOAEL)  for  ReFacto,  however,  was  established  at  50 
I.U./kg. Adjusting for the new method for establishment of potency that was initially proposed (one-
stage assay), 50 I.U/kg corresponds to the average clinical dose administered (29 I.U./kg). The adverse 
effects  observed  at  higher  dose  levels  can  all  be  ascribed  to  the  generation  of  anti-ReFacto/ReFacto 
AF  antibodies  and  Factor  VIII  inhibitors,  which  reduces  Factor  VIII  activity  and  thereby  interferes 
with  the  coagulation  pathway.  Sampling  for  neutralising  antibodies  was  not  performed  on  identical 
days  for  ReFacto  AF  and  ReFacto  thus  it  is  difficult  to  assess  whether  the  development  of 
immunogenicity was comparable. Still, no major differences in immunogenic potential were observed. 
The differences in the NOAELs determined in the moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) and ReFacto studies in 
monkeys can be attributed to slight differences in the onset and consequences of immune responses to 
the endogenous FVIII in the 2 studies. In clinical studies with moroctocog alfa (AF-CC), the incidence 
of immune responses has been similar to that of ReFacto. 
The  synthesized  peptide  ligand  used  in  the  ReFacto  AF  purification  process,  may  potentially  leach 
from the chromatographic resin into the product stream. Therefore, the possible effects of the peptide 
ligand on the clotting activity of rat plasma, human plasma, and factor VIII deficient human plasma 
containing ReFacto AF were evaluated in vitro. The results indicate that it is unlikely that the peptide 
ligand  would  interfere  with  normal  clotting  in  a  physiologic  setting.  The  single  dose  toxicity  of  0.6 
mg/kg  the  peptide  ligand  I.V.  was  evaluated  in  female  Sprague-Dawley  rats.  Potentially  treatment-
related effects consisted of decreases (10%) in red blood cells counts, haematocrit and haemoglobin 2 
and 15 days following the administration of a single dose of the peptide ligand to rats. Moreover, a 
decrease in white blood cell counts (around 30%) was observed in the peptide ligand treated animals 
relative to the control group. 
However, it is unlikely that patients treated with moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) purified using the peptide 
ligand  have  any  risk  of  haemolytic  effect  due  to  the  slight  decreases  in  haematological  parameters 
observed in the acute toxicity study using a large exaggerated dose (>12 million times the clinical dose 
based on body mass). Changes are probably incidental due to inter-animal variability.   
The 4-week toxicity study in monkeys was GLP compliant whereas the acute toxicity assessment of 
the novel affinity ligand was performed as a non-GLP study. The latter is considered acceptable by the 
CHMP since it may be viewed as a follow-up study. 
8/70 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
3.4   CLINICAL ASPECTS 
3.4.1 Comparability of ReFacto and ReFacto AF 
The  objective  of  the  process  modifications  to  the  moroctocog  alfa    drug  substance  manufacturing 
process  was  to  adopt  the  minimal  set  of  changes  that  eliminated  all  animal-  and  human-derived 
proteins,  while  maintaining  product  quality  and  purity.    Additional  changes  were  made  to  optimize 
product  expression,  yield,  and  purity.    The  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  albumin-free  process  was 
developed  subject  to  the  constraint  that  there  would  be  no  significant  changes  in  moroctocog  alfa 
product  characteristics,  thus  maintaining  comparability  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  to  moroctocog 
alfa produced by the current registered process. 
The  changes  in  manufacturing  process  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  substance  were 
implemented  prior  to  study  3082B1-305-GL  (study  305)  and  are  fully  reflected  in  pharmacokinetic 
(PK) study 305 and in safety and efficacy study 3082B1-306-GL (study 306).  Study 305, using drug 
substance  and  drug  product  manufactured  at  the  MAH  United  States  (US)  manufacturing  facilities, 
demonstrated  bioequivalence  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and  ReFacto,  the  currently  licensed 
product.  Manufacturing  sites  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  substance  were  subsequently 
transferred from the US to Stockholm, Sweden, after studies 305 and 306; however, the process design 
and scale of manufacturing were not changed during this transfer.  
Furthermore,  comprehensive  comparability  studies  performed  on  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug 
substance and drug product demonstrated that all sources of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance 
and drug product were functionally and biochemically equivalent.   
The  approach  for  assigning  the  potency  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  has  been  revised  during  the 
development  of  ReFacto  AF.  Studies  305,  306  and  307  used  the  same  approach  as  for  the  current 
ReFacto (i.e. the chromogenic substrate (CS) assay was used to calibrate the moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
potency  standard  relative  to  the  WHO  6th  International  Standard  (WHO  6th  IS).  For  studies  310  and 
311,  the  one  stage  clotting  (OS)  assay  was  used  to  calibrate  the  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  potency 
standard relative to the WHO 7th International Standard (WHO 7th IS).  Subsequently, the chromogenic 
substrate  (CS)  assay  relative  to  the  WHO  7th  IS  was  established  as  the  method  for  calibrating 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) potency standards intended for use in commercial manufacturing operations 
for Europe.  
In some regions of the world, another moroctocog alfa product identified by the tradename XYNTHA 
is  marketed.  This  uses  the  one  stage  clotting  (OS)  assay  to  calibrate  the  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC) 
potency standard relative to the WHO 7th International Standard (WHO 7th IS). Due to the difference 
in methods used to assign product potency, 1 IU of the XYNTHA product is approximately equivalent 
to 1.38 IU of the ReFacto AF product. 
The table in section 3.4.2.2 provides an overview of the clinical studies and includes information on 
the sites of active substance manufacture and the potency calibration used. 
The evaluation of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in study 310, using the drug product with highest protein 
content  per  IU  provided  robust  clinical  assurance  that  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  is  a  safe  treatment 
option for hemophilia A.  The data from study 310 demonstrate that at the relatively higher protein per 
IU exposures over time, there was no evidence for new safety concerns relative to currently licensed 
ReFacto, including inhibitor development or thrombogenicity.  ReFacto (AF-CC) manufactured using 
the OS calibrated potency standard was evaluated in clinical study 3082B2-310-WW (study 310).  
Following the incorporation of the CS assay for use in potency standard calibration, moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) to be used in the European Union (EU) has approximately 27% less protein content per IU 
relative  to  the  OS  aligned  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  product  used  in  study  310.  However, 
commercial moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) will still have approximately 14% more protein content per IU 
relative  to  the  currently  licensed  ReFacto  product.  This  is  a  consequence  of  the  alignment  of 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  potency  with  the  WHO  7th  IS  compared  to  ReFacto,  which  has  potency 
aligned relative to the WHO 6th IS (see Table 45-1 below).   
9/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus,  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  now  known  as  ReFacto  AF  and  approved  for  use  in  the  EU  has  a 
protein  content  per  IU  that  is  intermediate  between  the  currently  licensed  original  ReFacto  and  the 
material used in study 310. It is noteworthy that the original ReFacto clinical trial data were generated 
with ReFacto drug product prior to a recalibration of potency in 2003. Those original pivotal data were 
generated  with  original  ReFacto  that  had  even  less  (approximately  12%  less)  protein  per  IU  than 
currentlythe marketed ReFacto. 
Potency  Standard 
Calibration 
Material 
WHO  6th  IS  CS 
calibrated standard 
Table 45-1: Estimated Protein Content for ReFacto and Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
Revised  WHO  6th 
IS  CS  calibrated 
standard 
Current ReFacto and 
Moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) Study 306 
Material 
Original ReFactoa 
and Moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) Study 306 
Materialb 
Moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) 
Commercial Material 
WHO  7th  IS  CS 
calibrated standard 
Moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) 
Study 310, 311 
Material 
WHO  7th  IS  OS 
calibrated standard 
Protein Content per 
1000 IU (ug) 
73 
83 
95 
131 
The consistency of the clinical efficacy outcomes over time is anticipated based on the wide range of 
individualized dosing used in the various treatment settings in the clinic, as demonstrated in study 310 
(efficacy  dosing  data:    median  dose  =  30.2  IU/kg,  range  =  6.4  IU/kg  to  76.9  IU/kg),  which  is 
significantly  larger  than  the  changes  to  vial  protein  content  over  time,  from  original  ReFacto  to  the 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) as used in study 310 (protein content per 1000 IU: 73 to 131 μg).  Thus, the 
comparable  efficacy  outcomes  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  in  study  310  and  the  original  pivotal 
ReFacto studies bracket moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU in terms of protein per IU for 
the products tested and, as such, provide evidence for clinical efficacy of the drug product over a wide 
range of protein per IU concentrations, included that of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU. 
 The results of study 305, as summarized below, demonstrated that the manufacturing process changes 
implemented  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  have  not  affected  the  PK  properties  of  ReFacto  and 
support the variation of the license. Additional clinical information regarding the safety and efficacy 
of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) representing material from the commercial site of moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) drug substance manufacturing, Biovitrum (Stockholm, Sweden), using the OS calibrated potency 
standard was obtained from clinical study 310 and is presented below, and also supports the safety of 
efficacy of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) for the EU. Taken together, the demonstration of bioequivalence 
of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) with ReFacto in study 305 and the evaluation of safety and efficacy of 
moroctocog (AF-CC) in studies 306 and 310 provided significant and sufficient clinical evidence that 
the  changes  in  the  manufacturing  process  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  have  not  affected  the  well-
characterized clinical behaviour of moroctocog alfa. 
Drug Substance 
The comparability of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance used to prepare moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) drug product in study 305 (manufactured at the Wyeth Cambridge facility, US), moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC)  drug  substance  used  to  prepare  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  product  in  study  306 
(manufactured at the Wyeth St. Louis facility, US) and moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance used 
to  prepare  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  product  in  study  310  (manufactured  at  the  proposed 
commercial manufacturing site of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC), Biovitrum in Stockholm, Sweden) was 
demonstrated  using  a  comprehensive  comparability  programme.    The  key  components  evaluated  to 
assess comparability were selected based on an extensive history of manufacture of moroctocog alfa 
drug  substance.    The  comparability  plan  was  based  on  the  knowledge  of  the  manufacturing  process 
and the critical factors that have the potential to impact the biochemical and functional characteristics 
of  moroctocog  alfa.  The  components  evaluated  include  operational  process  parameters  (both 
fermentation  and  purification),  biochemical  characterization  using  release  assays,  structural  and 
functional characterization using non-routine methods, assessment of purity, and stability studies.  The 
analytical methods and assessment criteria used are stringent and discriminating enough to ensure that 
10/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  substance  manufactured  at  Cambridge  US,  St. Louis  US,  and 
Stockholm has comparable identity, purity, potency, and quality to each other.  
The evaluations support the comparability of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance manufactured 
at Cambridge US, St. Louis US, and Stockholm to each other and to moroctocog alfa (current process) 
drug  substance  from  Stockholm,  supporting  the  clinical  relevance  of  data  from  study  305  linking 
current  ReFacto  to  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  and  study  306  and  study  310  to  support  the  use  of 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) based on drug substance from Stockholm. 
11/70 
 
 
 
Drug Product 
Similar to the comparability plan used for assessing moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance, the key 
components evaluated for moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug product were selected based on the history 
of manufacture of ReFacto. The comparability plan was based on the knowledge of the manufacturing 
process  and  the  critical  factors  that  have  the  potential  to  impact  the  biochemical  and  functional 
characteristics  of  ReFacto.  The  components  evaluated  include  operational  process  parameters, 
lyophilized product characterization, biochemical and functional characterization using release assays, 
structural and biophysical characterization of the active ingredient, and stability studies. The analytical 
methods  and  assessment  criteria  used  are  stringent  and  discriminating  enough  to  ensure  that 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC)  drug product manufactured at the Wyeth Andover US Clinical Fill Finish 
Facility  (MHRA  inspected)  and  at  Wyeth  Farma  have  comparable  identity,  purity,  potency,  and 
quality to each other and ReFacto manufactured at Wyeth Farma, supporting the clinical relevance of 
data from study 305 linking current ReFacto to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC), and study 310 to support 
the  use of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug product released from Wyeth Farma, Madrid. 
Clinical Equivalence 
The clinical bioequivalence of ReFacto and moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) (drug substance manufactured 
at Cambridge US) was demonstrated in study 305.  For the study 305 PK assessments, patients were to 
be administered 50 IU/kg of ReFacto and moroctocog alfa (AF-CC), based upon the manufacturer’s 
labeled  potency.  In  calculating  PK  parameters  for  the  respective  drug  products,  actual  doses 
administered  were  calculated  using  the  product  of  [the  actual  potency  assigned  by  the  manufacturer 
(for  the  given  lot  number)  using  the  CS  assay,  divided  by  a  dilution  factor  of  4]  and  the  volume 
administered.  Patient plasma samples were obtained at the specified time points prior to and following 
the  respective  infusions  in  compliance  with  the  CHMP  Note  for  Guidance  (NfG)  and  International 
Society  of  Thrombosis  and  Hemostasis  (ISTH)  recommendations.    All  determinations  of  FVIII 
activity in plasma (FVIII:C) in patient plasma were performed using the CS assay and measurements 
of FVIII:C in plasma were adjusted for baseline and normalized to a dose of 50 IU/kg.  Thus, the dose 
of each study drug administered and FVIII:C in plasma from the patients were determined by the CS 
assay, thereby assuring that FVIII administered to the patients and FVIII:C in plasma from the patients 
were  measured in identical units 
A  comparison  of  values  for  the  key  PK  parameters  (AUCT,  AUC∞,  and  K-value)  for  ReFacto  and 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) evaluated in study 305 is presented in Table 45-2.  These data support the 
demonstration  of  comparability  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  to  ReFacto,  as  bioequivalence  was 
demonstrated.  AUC of FVIII from zero to the time of the last measurable concentration (AUCT) and 
infinity (AUC∞) were 14.5 ± 5.2 and 15.4 ± 6.0 IU•h/mL, respectively, for moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
and  14.5  ±  4.6  and  15.6 ±  5.6  IU•h/mL,  respectively,  for  ReFacto.    The  90%  confidence  intervals 
about the ratios of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) to ReFacto means of AUCT and AUC∞ were 93.8% to 
105.6  %  and  92.2%  to  104.3%,  respectively,  both  of  which  were  well  within  the  bioequivalence 
window of 80% to 125%. Similarly, the K-values were 2.32 ± 0.35 IU/dL per IU/kg and 2.30 ± 0.32 
IU/dL  per  IU/kg  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and  ReFacto  respectively.    The  90%  confidence 
interval  about  the  ratio  of  the  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  to  ReFacto  means  of  K-value  (97.6%  to 
103.6%) was well within the bioequivalence window of 80% to 125%.  Thus study 305 demonstrates 
that  the  manufacturing  changes  associated  with  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  do  not  alter  the  well-
described PK of ReFacto. 
Table 45-2:  Key Factor VIII Pharmacokinetic Parameters for  
ReFacto and Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in Study 305 
Treatment 
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
Mean ± SD 
(Min, Max) 
ReFacto   
Mean ± SD 
(Min, Max) 
Ratio of LS means 
AUCT (h•IU/mL) 
AUC∞ (h•IU/mL) 
14.5 ± 5.2 
(6.5, 24.0) 
15.4 ± 6.0 
(6.7, 29.3) 
14.5 ± 4.6 
(6.8, 23.0) 
Ratio of LS means and 90% CI 
15.6 ± 5.6 
(7.0, 28.5) 
99.5% 
98.1% 
12/70 
K-value  
(IU/dL per IU/kg) 
2.32 ± 0.35 
(1.64, 2.91) 
2.30 ± 0.32 
(1.72, 2.89) 
100.6% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
90% CI 
Abbreviations: AUC∞ = area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to infinity; AUCT = area under the 
97.6 - 103.6% 
93.8 - 105.6% 
92.2 - 104.3% 
plasma concentration-time curve from zero to the last measurable concentration; CI = confidence interval; K = 
incremental recovery; LS = least squares; SD = standard deviation 
The  PK  portion  of  study  310  demonstrated  the  clinical  bioequivalence  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC) 
(drug substance manufactured at Stockholm) to a full-length recombinant FVIII product (Advate).  For 
the study 310 PK assessments, patients were to be administered 50 IU/kg of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
or Advate based upon the manufacturer’s labeled potency. (As explained previously, in study 310, the 
one  stage  clotting  (OS)  assay  was  used  to  calibrate  the  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  potency  standard 
relative  to  the  WHO  7th  IS).  To  accommodate  potential  differences  in  methods  of  potency 
determination by the manufacturers of the 2 respective study drugs, the actual potencies of each lot of 
drug used in the study were determined head-to-head in the same OS clotting assay (versus a plasma 
standard)  by  the  central  laboratory.  For  calculation  of  PK  parameters  to  support  the  primary 
bioequivalence  analysis,  the  actual  dose  (IU)  of  the  respective  drug  administered  during  each  PK 
assessment was determined using the product of [the above potency (IU) as determined by the central 
laboratory (for a given lot number) divided by dilution factor (total diluent volume used to reconstitute 
each vial of the respective PK drug)] and the volume (mL) administered.  Patient plasma samples were 
obtained at the specified time points prior to and following the respective infusions in compliance with 
the NfG and ISTH recommendations. All determinations of FVIII:C in patient plasma were performed 
using the same OS assay at the central laboratory.   
For the calculation of PK parameters, measurements of FVIII:C in plasma were adjusted for baseline 
and normalized to a dose of 50 IU/kg based upon the central laboratory potency assessment.  Thus, the 
dose of each study drug administered was aligned to each other, and to the FVIII:C measurements in 
patient  plasma  as  determined  from  the  patients  by  the  same  OS  assay,  thereby  assuring  that  FVIII 
administered to the patients and FVIII:C in plasma from the patients were measured in identical units. 
This  study  design  assured  that  the  demonstration  of  bioequivalence  was  independent  of  method  of 
manufacturer’s  potency  assignment.  As  such,  this  primary  efficacy  outcome  of  study  310  is  not 
impacted by revision of the potency calibration procedure for the manufacturing working standard, to 
include  the  use  of  the  CS  assay,  rather  than  the  OS  assay.  Based  on  the  central  laboratory  potency 
assessment,  the  mean  FVIII:C-versus-time  profiles  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and  Advate  were 
comparable. The 90% CIs about the ratios of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) to Advate geometric means of 
AUCt, AUC∞, and K-value were within the bioequivalence window of 80% to 125%, indicating the 
bioequivalence of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) and Advate when the same one stage potency assay was 
used to measure product potency and plasma levels. 
In addition to these PK observations, the safety and efficacy data obtained for moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC)  manufactured  at  Stockholm  and  used  in  study 310  were  consistent  with  the  safety  and  efficacy 
data obtained  for moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in study 306 and for ReFacto in the original pivotal study 
3082A-300-WW (study 300) in previously treated patients (PTPs), demonstrating that moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC), across a range of protein content per IU that includes that of the moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
drug product intended for the EU (see Table 45-1), is a safe and efficacious treatment option for the 
management of hemophilia A.  
The  inhibitor  safety  profile  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  is  consistent  between  studies  306  and  310.  
The data demonstrate an absence of neoantigenicity, and are consistent with the experience observed 
for ReFacto.  The spectrum of treatment-emergent adverse events and treatment-emergent hemophilia 
events observed in study 310 reflects the known complications of hemophilia A and is consistent with 
those  previously  observed  in  study  306.    The  findings  demonstrate  that  the  revision  in  method  of 
potency assignment has not impacted on the safety profile of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC).  Furthermore, 
the aggregate experience in studies 306 and 310 demonstrates that the manufacturing process changes 
for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  have  not  adversely  impacted  the  well-characterized  safety  profile  of 
ReFacto.  
Evidence  for  comparable  clinical  efficacy  of  ReFacto,  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  used  in  study  306, 
and moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) used in study 310 is provided by a comparison of on-demand treatment 
13/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
results (Table 45-3) and prophylaxis results for the respective drug products.  In pivotal study 300 that 
assessed  ReFacto  in  previously  treated  patients,  ReFacto  was  administered  at  a  mean  dose  of  30.79 
(SD 10.03) IU/kg for on-demand treatment of bleeding episodes; 88% of bleeding episodes resolved 
with 1 or 2 infusions.  In study 306 moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) was administered on demand at a mean 
dose of 39.5 IU/kg (SD 16.3) IU/kg; 87% of bleeding episodes resolved with 1 or 2 infusions.   
Drug product used in studies 300 and 306 had a protein content per IU less than that of moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU, as noted in the Table 45-1.  In study 310, moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
was administered on demand at a mean dose of 33.7 IU/Kg (SD 11.6); 92.5 % of bleeding episodes 
resolved with 1 or 2 infusions).  Drug product used in study 310 had a protein content per IU greater 
than  that  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  intended  for  the  EU.    Although  not  compared  directly  in  the 
same study, these results show that a comparable spectrum of dosing for ReFacto and moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC),  regardless  of  manufacturing  location  or  method  for  potency  assignment,  produced 
comparable treatment results in the on-demand setting in similar patient populations. 
Table 45-3: Number (%) of Bleeding Episodes Resolved With One or Two Infusions in ReFacto Study 300 and 
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) Studies 306 and 310 
Mean dose (IU/kg) for on 
demand treatment (SD) 
Median dose (IU/kg) for on 
demand treatment 
Percentage of bleeds resolving 
with 1 or 2 infusions 
--------ReFacto-------- 
Study 300 
30.79 (10.03) 
29.94 
88% 
Moroctocog alfa 
 (AF-CC) 
Study 306 
39.5 (16.3) 
37.6 
87% 
Moroctocog alfa 
 (AF-CC) 
Study 310 
33.7 (11.6) 
30.6 
92.5% 
Efficacy  of  prophylaxis  treatment  with  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  relative  to  the  on-demand 
experience with ReFacto, has been demonstrated in studies 306 and 310. In study 306 a mean overall 
annual  bleeding  rate  (ABR)  of  7.7  episodes  per  year  was  observed  in  patients  during  prophylaxis 
treatment. In study 310 a mean overall ABR of 3.9 episodes per year was observed in patients during 
prophylaxis treatment. These results are consistent with the ABR of 10 episodes per year observed in 
ReFacto study 300 during periods of prophylaxis and compare favorably with the overall ABR of 25 
episodes  observed  in  ReFacto  study  300  during  periods  when  prophylaxis  treatment  was  not 
administered. Differences in ABRs between ReFacto study 300 and moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) studies 
306  and  310  may  be  entirely  explained  by  differences  in  the  prophylaxis  regimens  used  in  these 
respective studies. These data demonstrate that the changes in manufacturing process, across a range 
of protein content per IU which brackets that of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for market, has not 
compromised the prophylactic efficacy of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). 
The  MAH  considered  that  based  on  the  above  described  information,  comprehensive  comparability 
studies performed on moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance and drug product demonstrate that all 
sources of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance and drug product are equivalent.  
Clinical information and data obtained for moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance from Cambridge 
and  from  St  Louis  are  viewed  as  representative  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  substance  from 
Stockholm.    These  data  provide  supportive  evidence  that  conclusions  regarding  the  clinical 
bioequivalence  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  substance  manufactured  at  Cambridge  to  ReFacto 
(from study 305) may be extrapolated to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) drug substance from Stockholm. 
Potency assignment of Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) and impact on protein content 
In  accordance  with  the  recommendations  from  CHMP,  the  potency  of  commercial  moroctocog  alfa 
(AF-CC) drug substance and drug product will be assigned using the CS assay relative to a potency 
standard calibrated against the WHO 7th IS by the CS assay. 
A consequence of this approach, due to the transition from the WHO 6th International Standard to the 
WHO 7th International Standard, is that there will be an increase in the protein content for moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) when compared to ReFacto of approximately 14%.  
The MAH is of the opinion that the analysis and the understanding of the typical dosing practices used 
in the management of hemophilia it can be concluded  that there is no safety risk to the patient with the 
14/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) containing an increase in protein content compared with 
moroctocog  alfa  (current  process).  Most  importantly,  the  results  of  clinical  study  310,  using  a  drug 
product with a protein content per IU greater than that of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the 
EU  market,  coupled  with  historical  data  for  original  ReFacto  that  had  protein  content  per  IU  that  is 
less than that of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU demonstrate that there is no impact to 
safety and efficacy with the use of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) for the management of hemophilia.   
Active Ingredient Concentration in Reconstituted Solution  
Due  to  a  change  in  the  International  Standard  used  for  calibration  of  the  moroctocog  alfa  
(AF-CC)  manufacturing  standard,  reconstituted  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  solutions  will  contain 
approximately 14% higher active ingredient concentrations than in moroctocog alfa (current process) 
(see  Table  45-4).    The  nominal  dosage  strengths  will  remain  unchanged;  thus,  there  will  be 
approximately 14% more moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) protein per IU in a given dose.  
Dosage 
Strength 
ReFactoa 
estimated concentration 
(mg/mL) 
Table 45-4: Protein Concentration of ReFacto and Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) After Reconstitution With Normal 
Saline Diluent 
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC)b 
Representing material evaluated in 
studies 310 and 311 
estimated concentration 
(mg/mL) 
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC)c 
Representing proposed commercial 
material 
estimated concentration 
(mg/mL) 
0.006 
250 
0.012 
500 
0.024 
1000 
0.048 
2000 
a.  Potency of material determined using CS assay and a CS calibrated standard relative to the WHO 6th IS. 
b.  Potency of material determined using CS assay and a OS calibrated standard relative to the WHO 7th IS. 
c.  Potency of material determined using CS assay and a CS calibrated standard relative to the WHO 7th IS. 
0.005 
0.011 
0.021 
0.042 
0.008 
0.016 
0.033 
0.066 
For the 250, 500, and 1000 IU dosage strengths, the concentration of moroctocog alfa protein in the 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU will be well below the active ingredient concentration 
in the ReFacto 2000 IU dosage strength. The 2000 IU dosage form of ReFacto was approved in 2003 
and  currently  represents  a  significant  portion  of  ReFacto  commercial  supplies.    Therefore,  the  14% 
increase in moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) protein per IU concentration in the 250, 500, and 1000 IU/vial 
dosage strengths is not anticipated to result in any new safety issues. 
Thus, for the 2000 IU dosage strength, the protein concentration of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) will be 
about 14% above the current value for ReFacto but less (approximately 27% less) than the 2000 IU 
dosage strength tested in ongoing study 311. The use of this dosage form with the proposed increase in 
protein  is  also  supported  by  experience  in  non-clinical  studies  filed  as  part  of  the  Original  ReFacto 
Marketing Application, as summarized briefly here.  
A  number  of  non-clinical  studies  in  both  rats  and  cynomolgus  monkeys  were  performed  at 
concentrations  greater  than  the  moroctocog  alfa  protein  concentration  in  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC) 
reconstituted 2000 IU.  In these studies, no systemic or local toxic effects due to the concentration of 
active ingredient were seen. (In some of the monkey studies, administration of moroctocog alfa protein 
induced antibodies that recognized the endogenous monkey FVIII.) 
The exposure of test animals to these high concentrations of moroctocog alfa, without any systemic or 
local  toxic  effects  due  to  the  concentration  of  moroctocog  alfa  protein,  supports  the  safety  of  the 
increase  in  moroctocog  alfa  protein  final  concentration  in  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  due  to  the 
transition  of  manufacturing  standard  calibration  from  the  WHO  6th  International  Standard  to  the 
WHO 7th International Standard. 
Total Moroctocog Alfa (AF-CC) Dose 
Current moroctocog alfa clinical experience was reflected in study 310; the median dose administered 
per infusion was 30.2 IU/kg with a range of 6.4 to 76.9 IU/kg.  Infusions of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
over  this  dosing  range  were  well  tolerated  with  no  instance  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)-related 
infusion reactions.  These data support the conclusions that the increase in moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
15/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
protein content resulting from the transition of manufacturing standard calibration from the WHO 6th 
International  Standard  to  the  WHO  7th  International  Standard  is  well  within  the  wide  dosing  range 
utilized in study 310 and that the increased protein concentration resulting from the revised method for 
potency assignment is safe and well tolerated. 
In general, the data support the conclusion that the increase in moroctocog alfa protein content per vial 
for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  is  well  within  the  normal  dosing  regime  for  the  management  of 
hemophilia A, and it is also well below the doses administered to test animals in non-clinical studies 
with moroctocog alfa.  
The  MAH  has  provided  information  during  the  assessment  of  the  scientific  data    by  the  CHMP  to 
support that study 305 provided evidence for bioequivalence between currently marketed ReFacto and 
ReFacto  AF  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)    intended  for  market  in  EU.  Furthermore,  the  MAH  has 
reviewed the possible clinical impact of the differences in protein content resulting from the changes 
in potency assignment incurred by the changes from the 6th to 7th WHO international standard. These 
requirements  results  in  an  increased  protein  content  per  IU  as  compared  to  the  currently  marketed 
ReFacto,  but  a  lower  content  per  IU  compared  to  the  version  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  used  in 
some  of  the  clinical  trials  in  support  of  the  variation.  It  is  important  to  stress  that  these  changes  in 
protein  content  is  not  a  result  of  the  manufacturing  changes,  but  solely  a  result  of  the  change  in 
international  standard;  a  change  that  would  have  happened  sooner  or  later  for  ReFacto  despite  this 
variation.  The  clinical  trials  provided  in  support  of  the  variation  –  using  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC) 
with  a  higher  protein  content  than  that  intended  for  the  EU  market  –  have  provided  convincing 
evidence  for  comparable  efficacy  and  safety  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and  both  original  and 
current marketed ReFacto. 
Overall  the  MAH  provided  good  evidence  that  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  is  bioequivalent  with  the 
current  version  of  ReFacto,  and  also  with  another  marketed  F-VIII  product,  Advate  (when  both 
products are assayed with the same one-stage potency assay), and that ReFacto AF (moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC)  intended  for  the  EU  marked  will  have  a  comparable  efficacy  and  safety  as  the  current 
ReFacto 
3.4.2Clinical data 
An overview of the clinical data presented throughout the entire assessment periods of this application 
is given below. 
3.4.2.1 Pharmacokinetic data 
Single- and repeat-dose pharmacokinetic (PK) data for moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) are primarily derived 
from  the  PK  assessments  conducted  in  pivotal  study  310  at  a  single  dose  of  50  IU/kg.    This  study 
assessed  the  bioequivalence  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and  a  full-length  recombinant  factor  VIII 
product  (FLrFVIII,  Advate).  Moreover,  PK  data  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  after  6  months 
treatment  were  compared  to  baseline.  Available  recovery  data  from  the  ongoing  pivotal  study  of 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  for  surgical  prophylaxis  (study  311)  are  also  presented.  Bioequivalence 
between the current marketed ReFacto and moroctocog alfa AF-CC was studied in Study 305. PK data 
were also collected in studies 306 and 307.  
•  Bioavailability 
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) is administered IV; thus, by definition the bioavailability is 100%. 
In study 310 analysis of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) PK over time (at baseline and month 6) was also 
performed with reference to the central laboratory potency assessment and the manufacturer’s labeled 
potency, as described below. The central laboratory potency assessment was measured in units versus 
a plasma standard by a one-stage assay. The manufacturer’s labeled potency was based on calibration 
using a 7th IS, one stage-calibrated, AF-CC potency standard. Plasma levels were measured by a one 
stage  assay.  The  plots  of  plasma  FVIII:C-versus-time  (mean  ±  standard  error)  for  moroctocog  alfa 
16/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(AF-CC)  at  baseline  and  month  6  for  the  25  evaluable  patients  based  on  both  the  central  laboratory 
and manufacturer’s labeled potency assessments are presented in the figure below.  
)
L
m
U
/
I
(
n
o
i
t
a
r
t
n
e
c
n
o
C
I
I
I
V
F
a) Central Lab Potency
Baseline
Month 6
1.4
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
)
L
m
U
/
I
(
n
o
i
t
a
r
t
n
e
c
n
o
C
I
I
I
V
F
b) Manufacturer's Labeled Potency
Baseline
Month 6
1.4
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
0
6
12
18
24
30
36
42
48
0
6
12
18
24
30
36
42
48
Time (h)
Time (h)
The  plasma  FVIII:C-versus-time  profiles  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  at  baseline  and  month  6  PK 
visits are comparable based on central laboratory potency assessment.  Comparable plasma FVIII:C-
versus-time profiles were also observed at the baseline and month 6 PK visits based on manufacturer’s 
labeled potency.  The key PK parameters, K-value, AUCt, and AUC∞, were approximately 9% lower 
when  based  on  the  manufacturer’s  labeled  potency  compared  with  the  central  laboratory  potency.  
These  values  are  consistent  with  the  lower  potencies  (approximately  93%  of  labeled  potency) 
observed for the various batches of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) based on the central laboratory potency 
assessment. 
The key PK parameters, K-value, AUCt and AUC∞ were unchanged at the month 6 visit compared to 
those at the baseline visit based on either manufacturer’s labeled potency or central laboratory potency 
assessment. 
Only limited PK data are available from study 311. At the data cutoff date for the application (10 Jan 
2007), 7 patients had completed surgery, and all were prescribed bolus injection replacement therapy 
in  a  peri-operative  setting.    Preliminary  recovery  data  are  available  for  6  of  the  7  patients.    The 
6 patients included in the PK analysis were white males ranging in age from 18 to 40 years. The mean 
(±SD) Cmax, K-value, and in vivo recovery value were 1.113 (±0.26) IU/mL, 2.23 (±0.52) IU/dL per 
IU/kg, and 105% (± 25%), respectively.   
•  Bioequivalence  
Study 310 investigated the bioequivalence of Moroctocog Alfa (AF-CC) and Advate based on Central 
Laboratory Potency Assessment. 
The  plots  of  plasma  FVIII:C-versus-time  (mean  ±  standard  error)  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and 
Advate for the 30 patients evaluable for bioequivalence testing based on the central laboratory potency 
assessment are presented in the figure below.  A summary of FVIII:C PK parameters and the results 
from the statistical analysis of these data are presented in the following table.   
17/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean (±Standard Error) Plasma Factor VIII:C-Versus-Time Profiles for Moroctocog Alfa (AF-
CC) and Advate in Previously Treated Patients With Hemophilia A in Study 3082B2-310-WW 
(Based on Central Laboratory Potency Assessment) 
)
L
m
U
/
I
(
n
o
i
t
a
r
t
n
e
c
n
o
C
I
I
I
V
F
Advate
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC)
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
0
6
12
18
24
30
36
42
48
Time (h)
Pharmacokinetic Parameter Estimates for Moroctocog Alfa (AF-CC) and Advate in Previously Treated 
Patients With Hemophilia A in Study 3082B2-310-WW 
(Based on Central Laboratory Potency Assessment) 
Treatment 
Advate 
Mean ± SD 
(Min, Max) 
N 
Cmax  
(IU/mL) 
AUCt 
(IU·hr/mL) 
AUC∞ 
(IU·hr/mL) 
t1/2  
(hr) 
K-value 
(IU/dL per 
IU/kg) 
In vivo 
Recovery 
(%) 
1.19 ± 0.32 
(0.64, 2.06) 
30 
15.0 ± 5.4 
(6.5, 24.2) 
30 
16.5 ± 6.3 
(7.5, 26.7) 
30 
13.3 ± 5.8 
(5.9, 31.2) 
30 
2.39 ± 0.65 
(1.28, 4.13) 
30 
114 ± 30 
(59.7, 200) 
30 
Moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) 
11.2 ± 5.0 
Mean ± SD 
(3.5, 33.9) 
(Min, Max) 
N 
30 
                     Ratios of geometric LS means and 90% confidence intervalsa 
Ratio of 
geometric LS 
means 
1.17 ± 0.23 
(0.66, 1.62) 
30 
14.7 ± 6.1 
(5.4, 28.7) 
30 
13.8 ± 5.7 
(4.8, 27.1) 
30 
89.8% 
88.0% 
--- 
--- 
2.35 ± 0.47 
(1.32, 3.25) 
30 
112 ± 22 
(60.7, 152) 
30 
100% 
--- 
90% Log-
transformed CI 
--- 
83.3%-96.9%  81.6%-94.8% 
--- 
92.5%-108% 
--- 
a.  The 90% confidence intervals (CI) about the ratio of the moroctocog alfa (AF-CC)-to-Advate means were obtained 
using the average bioequivalence procedure for a 2×2 crossover design provided in WinNonlin Professional 
version 4.1.  Abbreviations: AF-CC=albumin-free cell culture; AUC∞ = area under the plasma concentration-time 
curve from time zero to infinity; AUCT = area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to the last 
measurable concentration; CI=confidence interval; Cmax = peak concentration; K = incremental recovery; LS = least 
squares; Max=Maximum; Min=Minimum; SD=standard deviation; t1/2 = terminal-phase elimination half-life. 
As  can  be  seen  from  the  figure  above,  mean  plasma  FVIII:C-versus-time  profiles  for  moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) and Advate are comparable. 
A  supplemental  analysis  of  bioequivalence  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and  Advate  based  on 
manufacturer’s labeled potency was also performed and the mean (± standard error) FVIII:C-versus-
time  data  for  the  30  patients  who  were  eligible  for  bioequivalence  testing  are  shown  in  the  figure 
below. A summary of FVIII:C PK parameters and the results from the statistical analysis are found in 
the following table. 
18/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
    
 
  
    
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
Mean (±Standard Error) Plasma Factor VIII:C Versus Time Profiles for Moroctocog Alfa 
(AF-CC) and Advate in Previously Treated Patients With Hemophilia A  in Study 3082B2-
310-WW (Based on Manufacturer’s Labeled Potency) 
)
L
m
U
/
I
(
n
o
i
t
a
r
t
n
e
c
n
o
C
I
I
I
V
F
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
Advate
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC)
0
6
12
18
24
30
36
42
48
Time (h)
Pharmacokinetic Parameter Estimates for Moroctocog Alfa (AF-CC) and Advate in Previously Treated Patients With Hemophilia A in 
Study 3082B2-310-WW  
(Based on Manufacturer’s Labeled Potency) 
Treatment 
Advate 
Mean ± SD 
(Min, Max) 
n 
Moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) 
Mean ± SD 
(Min, Max) 
n 
C  max
(IU/mL) 
AUCt 
(IU·hr/mL) 
AUC∞ 
(IU·hr/mL) 
t
 1/2
(hr) 
K-value 
(IU/dL per 
IU/kg) 
In vivo 
Recovery (%) 
0.86 ± 0.24 
(0.52, 1.42) 
30 
10.8 ± 3.8 
(4.5, 17.3) 
30 
11.9 ± 4.5 
(5.2, 19.0) 
30 
13.3 ± 5.8 
(5.9, 31.2) 
30 
1.72 ± 0.47 
(1.04, 2.84) 
30 
82.2 ± 21.5 
(49.2, 137) 
30 
1.08 ± 0.22 
(0.58, 1.41) 
30 
12.7 ± 5.2 
(4.1, 23.6) 
30 
13.5 ± 5.6 
(4.7, 25.0) 
30 
11.2 ± 5.0 
(3.5, 33.9) 
30 
2.15 ± 0.44 
(1.15, 2.83) 
30 
103 ± 21 
(52.8, 132) 
30 
Ratios of geometric LS means and 90% confidence intervalsa 
--- 
114% 
112% 
Ratio of 
geometric LS 
means 
90% Log-
transformed CI 
a. 
bioequivalence procedure for a 2×2 crossover design provided in WinNonlin Professional version 4.1. 
Abbreviations: AUC∞ = area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity; AUCt = area under the plasma concentration-
time curve from zero to the last measurable concentration; CI=confidence interval; Cmax = peak concentration; K = incremental recovery; LS = 
least squares; Max=maximum; Min=minimum; SD=standard deviation; t1/2 = terminal-phase elimination half-life 
The 90% confidence intervals (CI) about the ratio of the moroctocog alfa (AF-CC)-to-Advate means were obtained using the average 
117% - 138% 
105% - 124% 
103% - 122% 
127% 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
Based  on  the  manufacturer’s  labeled  potency,  the  plasma  peak  FVIII:C  values  were  approximately 
27%  higher  (based  on  the  ratio  of  geometric  means)  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  compared  to 
Advate; the mean (±SD) Cmax values were 1.08 (±0.22) and 0.86 (±0.24) IU/mL for moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC)  and  Advate,  respectively.    These  concentrations  are  consistent  with  the  lower  central 
laboratory  potency  assignment  observed  with  Advate  lots  (74%  of  labeled  potency)  compared  to 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) lots (93% of labeled potency).  Two of the 3 key PK parameters, AUCt and 
AUC∞,  met  the  bioequivalence  criteria  (90%  CIs  within  the  window  of  80%  to  125%).    The  upper 
bound of the 90% CI for K-value exceeded 125% (the 90% CI was 117% to 138%), indicating the K-
value did not meet bioequivalence criteria. The clinical consequences of this is considered limited by 
the CHMP. 
Overall,  study  310  has  demonstrated  bioequivalence  between  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  produced  at 
the  commercial  site  and  lyophilized  and  filled  at  a  non-commercial  site  and  the  full-length  F-VIII 
19/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
product  Advate  when  central  laboratory  potency  assessment  was  measured  in  units  versus  a  plasma 
standard by a one-stage assay and plasma levels were measured by a one stage assay. These results do 
however not provide any evidence that the moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) commercial product is clinically 
comparable to currently marketed ReFacto. 
In  supportive  study  305  the  plasma  concentration-time  profile  of  factor  VIII  after  the  2-minute  IV 
infusion  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  preparation  was  found  to  be  essentially  identical  to  that  seen 
with ReFacto (see figure below). Plasma concentrations of factor VIII increased sharply in response to 
the 2-minute IV infusion of either the moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) or ReFacto preparation, with a Cmax 
of  1.16  ±  0.17  IU/mL  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and  1.15  ±  0.16  IU/mL  for  ReFacto,  observed 
mostly within the first half-hour. After the end of the infusion, the decline of the plasma concentration 
of  factor  VIII  exhibited  multiphasic  disposition  characteristics.  In  the  initial  phase,  plasma 
concentrations dropped at a rate consistent with relatively rapid but limited distribution into an extra 
vascular space. The Vss was 49.9 mL/kg for moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) and 51.1 mL/kg for ReFacto. 
During  the  terminal  phase,  the  rate  of  decline  in  plasma  concentrations  was  slower  with  a  t½  of 
approximately 9.9 ± 3.2 hours for  moroctocog alfa  (AF-CC)  and 10.9 ± 4.5 hours for ReFacto. The 
AUCs of factor VIII from zero to the time of the last measurable concentration (AUCT) and infinity 
(AUC∝) were 14.5 ± 5.2 and 15.4 ± 6.0 IU·h/mL, respectively, for moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) and 14.5 
± 4.6 and 15.6 ± 5.6 IU·h/mL, respectively, for ReFacto. The 90% confidence intervals about the ratios 
of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  to  ReFacto  means  of  AUCT  and  AUC∝  were  93.8%  to  105.6  %  and 
92.2% to 104.3%, respectively, both of which were well within the bioequivalence window of 80% to 
125%. 
In calculating PK parameters for the respective drug products in Study 305, actual doses administered 
were calculated using the product of [the actual potency assigned by the manufacturer (for the given 
lot  number)  using  the  CS  assay,  divided  by  a  dilution  factor  of  4]  and  the  volume  administered.  
Patient plasma samples were obtained at the specified time points prior to and following the respective 
infusions  in  compliance  with  the  NfG  and  International  Society  of  Thrombosis  and  Haemostasis 
(ISTH) recommendations.  All determinations of FVIII activity in plasma (FVIII:C) in patient plasma 
were performed using the CS assay and measurements of FVIII:C in plasma were adjusted for baseline 
and normalized to a dose of 50 IU/kg.  Thus, the dose of each study drug administered and FVIII:C in 
plasma from the patients were determined by the CS assay, thereby assuring that FVIII administered to 
the patients and FVIII:C in plasma from the patients were  measured in identical units 
Both  the  review  of  the  quality  data  as  well  as  the  MAH  responses  to  various  CHMP  requests  for 
supplementary  information  has  clearly  demonstrated  that  the  moroctocog  alfa  AF-CC  drug  product 
used in study 305 is fully comparable to the drug product intended for market. Study 305 can therefore 
20/70 
 
 
 
 
be regarded as sufficient for demonstration for bioequivalence between the current marketedReFacto 
and the future moroctocog alfa AF-CC intended for market. 
3.4.2.2 Clinical efficacy 
The  application  consisted  of  2  pivotal  studies  and  3  supportive  studies  conducted  with    moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) as shown in the table below: 
Study No. 
Pivotal studies 
3082B2-310-WW 
Drug substance 
manufacturing site: 
Sweden 
Potency: one stage 
ReFacto AF-CC clinical development programme 
Study Design 
Patient Population 
No. Enrolled 
Patients  
Study  
Status 
94  
Completed 
Male PTPs ≥12 years of age 
with moderately severe or 
severe hemophilia A (FVIII:C 
≤1% in PK period; FVIII:C 
≤2% in SE period) and ≥150 
EDs to any FVIII product 
Double-blind, randomized 
crossover PK period to assess 
BE of ReFacto AF-CC and 
Advate , followed by open-
label period to evaluate 
efficacy and safety of ReFacto 
AF-CC for use in prophylaxis 
and on-demand treatment of 
bleeding. ReFacto AF-CC PK 
at 6 months also evaluated for 
patients who completed PK 
period. 
3082B2-311-WW 
Drug substance 
manufacturing site: 
Sweden 
Potency: one stage 
Open-label efficacy and safety 
study of ReFacto AF-CC for 
use in surgical prophylaxis 
when administered by bolus or 
continuous infusion 
Male PTPs ≥12 years of age 
with moderately severe or 
severe hemophilia A (FVIII:C 
≤2%) and ≥150 EDs to any 
FVIII product undergoing 
elective major surgery 
22  
(25 planned) 
Ongoing 
Supportive studies 
3082B1-305-GL 
Drug substance 
manufacturing site: 
US  
Potency: 
chromogenic 
substrate 
3082B1-306-GL 
Drug substance 
manufacturing site: 
US  
Potency: 
chromogenic 
substrate 
Double-blind, randomized,  
crossover study of BE of 
ReFacto AF-CC and ReFacto  
and PK of ReFacto AF-CC 
Male PTPs ≥12 years of age 
with severe hemophilia A 
(FVIII:C ≤1%) and ≥250 EDs 
to any FVIII product 
30 
Completed 
Open-label efficacy and safety 
study of ReFacto AF-CC for 
use in routine prophylaxis, on-
demand treatment of bleeding, 
and surgical prophylaxis. PK 
at 3 months also evaluated for 
patients who completed study 
3082B1-305-GL. 
Male PTPs ≥12 years of ageb 
with moderately severe or 
severe hemophilia A (FVIII:C 
≤2%) and ≥250 EDs to any 
FVIII product 
110 
Completed 
Patients who completed study 
3082B1-306-GL 
Open-label, long-term efficacy 
and safety study of ReFacto 
AF-CC for use in prophylaxis, 
on-demand treatment of 
bleeding, and surgical 
prophylaxis. Recovery over 
time also evaluated. 
3082B1-307-GL 
Supportive study 
Drug substance 
manufacturing site: 
US  
Potency: 
chromogenic 
substrate 
Abbreviations: AF-CC = albumin-free cell culture; BE = bioequivalence; ED = exposure day; FVIII = factor VIII; FVIII:C = factor VIII activity in 
plasma; GL = global; PK = pharmacokinetics; PTPs = previously treated patients; SE = safety and efficacy; WW = worldwide. b: The lower age limit 
was decreased from 12 to 6 years when 10 patients accrued 50 EDs. c: Study 3082B1-307-GL was terminated early by the applicant after the drug 
substance manufacturing site was changed from the US to Sweden and the procedures to assign product potency were revised. 
98  
Terminatedc 
21/70 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pivotal studies were: 
1.  Study  3082B2-310-WW,  a  double-blind,  randomized  crossover  PK  period  to  assess  BE  of 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) and Advate, followed by open-label period to evaluate efficacy and 
safety  of  moroctocog  alfa (AF-CC)  for  use  in  prophylaxis  and  on-demand  treatment  of 
bleeding. 
2.  Study 3082B2-311-WW an open-label efficacy and safety study of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
for use in surgical prophylaxis when administered by bolus or continuous infusion. 
The supportive studies were: 
1.  Study 3082B1-305-GL, Double-blind, randomized, crossover study of BE of moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) and ReFacto and PK of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). 
2.  Study 3082B1-306-GL, an open-label efficacy and safety study of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
for use in routine prophylaxis, on-demand treatment of bleeding, and surgical prophylaxis. PK 
at 3 months also evaluated for patients who completed study 3082B1-305-GL. 
3.  Study  3082B1-307-GL,  an  open-label,  long-term  efficacy  and  safety  study  of  moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC)  for  use  in  prophylaxis,  on-demand  treatment  of  bleeding,  and  surgical 
prophylaxis. Recovery over time also evaluated. During the conduct of study 3082B1-307-GL 
the  manufacturing  process  was  changed,  including  a  change  in  the  drug  substance 
manufacturing site from the US to Sweden, and a revision to the potency assignment method 
for the manufacturing standard. Therefore, the applicant decided to terminate study 3082B1-
307-GL  early  and  initiate  clinical  trials  with  ReFacto  AF  manufactured  at  the  new  site  with 
the new potency assignment. 
3.4.2.2.1 Study 3082B2-310-WW 
Study 310 included 94 previously treated patients treated with at least one dose of moroctocog alfa for 
routine  prophylaxis  and  treatment  of  bleeding  episodes.  94  patients  in  study  3082B2-310-WW 
received  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  for  routine  prophylaxis  and,  in  some  cases,  for  intermittent 
prophylaxis (n=17) supplementing routine prophylaxis. A total of 6406 infusions of moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) with a median dose per infusion of 30.2 IU/kg (range, 6.8 to 76.9 IU/kg) were administered 
for prophylaxis. Only 7 dose escalations were prescribed for 6 patients during the course of the study. 
All 94 patients were followed-up for 19.757 person days. This study included only male patients and 
3.803 person days involved patients between 12-16 years of age. One patient was from Asian origin, 
89 patients were white and 4 patients were classified as other. 
In study 310 patients were monitored in a manner consistent with the CHMP “Note for Guidance on 
the  Investigation  of  Recombinant  Factor  VIII  and  IX  Products,”  dated  October  2000.  Initial  PK 
assessments  were  performed  on  31  patients  and  27  patients  underwent  repeat  PK  assessments 
following 6 months of treatment with moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). In the safety and efficacy portion of 
study 310, 94 previously treated patients with FVIII activity in plasma (FVIII:C) ≤2% (including the 
above PK patients) received moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) study drug for 6 months (or 50 exposure days 
[EDs]) for routine prophylaxis supplemented with on-demand treatment as necessary. PK results for 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  were  stable  over  time,  which  is  consistent  with  original  pivotal  data  for 
ReFacto, and only 2 transient inhibitors were observed—both at a single point in time with subsequent 
negative inhibitor assay results—indicating the absence of any new inhibitor safety signals, relative to 
the original ReFacto.  
The  MAH  proposed  that  their  understanding  is  that  for  modified  products  the  NfG  does  not  require 
that  patients  receive  treatment  with  the  previous  product  prior  to  entry  into  the  clinical  trial.  
Therefore, study 310 did not require prior treatment with ReFacto as an inclusion criterion, and during 
the 30 days prior to study entry, patients participating in study 310 received treatment with a variety of 
FVIII-containing products.  For 12 of these patients, use of ReFacto was reported during the 30-day 
interval preceding entry into study 310.  None of these 12 patients developed an inhibitor.  Additional 
data  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  treatment  in  patients  who  have  received  prior  treatment  with 
ReFacto are provided in the context of supporting study 306; pre-study use of ReFacto was reported 
22/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for 13 patients.  None of these 13 patients developed a confirmed inhibitor.  (Note that 1 patient [363-
562] had a local laboratory BIA value of 0.9 BU that was clinically silent and was considered a false 
positive;    samples  taken  the  same  day  and  analyzed  at  the  central  laboratory  were  negative  and  all 
succeeding values at the local laboratory were negative 
Prophylaxis treatment and number of bleeding episodes 
Most patients (57 of 94; 60.6%) in study 3082B2-310-WW reported no spontaneous bleeding episodes 
while on routine prophylaxis, and 45.7% (43 of 94) of patients had no bleeding episodes of any type 
(spontaneous  or  injury  related)  while  on  routine  prophylaxis  during  the  course  of  their  study 
participation.  The  median  annualized  bleed  rate  (ABR)  was  1.9  (mean  3.9,  range  0  to  42.1).  The 
median  ABR  for  spontaneous  and  traumatic  bleeding  episodes  individually  was  0  for  both  types  of 
bleeding,  with  a  mean  ABR  of  1.9  and  2.0  for  spontaneous  and  traumatic  bleeding  episodes, 
respectively.  Most  bleeding  episodes  (110  of  180;  61.1%)  during  routine  prophylaxis  occurred  ≤48 
hours  after  the  last  dose  of  moroctocog  alfa (AF-CC).  However,  the  majority  of  bleeding  episodes 
reported to occur ≤48 hours after the last routine prophylaxis dose were traumatic (64 of 110; 58.2%). 
In contrast, a relatively greater proportion of bleeding episodes that occurred >48 hours after the last 
routine prophylaxis dose were spontaneous (42 of 70; 60.0%). 
In study 310, 51 of 94 enrolled patients had 180 bleeding episodes while receiving moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC)  for  routine  prophylaxis.  There  were  206  separate  locations  of  bleeding  associated  with  the 
180 bleeding episodes reported during routine prophylaxis.  The locations of bleeding consisted of 131 
instances of bleeding in joints, 61 instances of bleeding in soft tissue, and 14 instances of bleeding in 
other locations.  
The  incidence  rate  of  LETE  in  study  3082B2-310-WW  during  prophylaxis  was  low  (0.4%;  25 
episodes per 6347 prophylactic infusions). 53 patients in study 3082B2-310-WW received moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) for on-demand treatment during the study (including patients who reported on-demand 
use  before  beginning  their  routine  prophylaxis).  A  total  of  282  on-demand  infusions  of  moroctocog 
alfa  (AF-CC)  were  administered  with  a  median  dose  per  infusion  of  30.6  IU/kg  (range,  6.4  to  74.4 
IU/kg).  The median  number  of  infusions  per  patient  was  3  (range,  1  to  26  infusions).  Regardless  of 
location, 92.5% (173 of 187) of all bleeds resolved with 1 or 2 infusions of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). 
Of  the  187 initial  infusions  to  treat  a  bleeding  episode,  the  response  to  132  (70.6%)  infusions  was 
rated  either  “excellent”  or  “good,”  including  44 (23.5%)  infusions  rated  “excellent”  and  88  (47.1%) 
infusions rated “good”. 
Cases of inhibitors observed in study 310 
Two instances of low-titre transient inhibitors were observed in study 310 (patients 4114 and 4404).  
Each  instance  was  associated  with  detection  of  an  inhibitor  at  a  single  point  in  time  with  negative 
follow-up Nijmegen inhibitor assays.  Each patient had previously been treated with plasma-derived 
FVIII concentrates, and neither had received prior treatment with ReFacto. The MAH has previously 
obtained  extended  follow-up  data  for  each  of  these  patients  after  their  completion  of  study 
participation. These data were included in the respective subject narratives provided in the application. 
Patient 4114:   
Subsequent to final study contact, 2 communications were provided regarding clinical inhibitor status 
of this patient. In the first communication received 5 months subsequent to the final study contact, the 
study site communicated that during the interval subsequent to study participation, patient 4114 had 10 
clinical contacts with the study site. Over this interval the patient received prophylaxis (approximately 
15-20 IU/kg administered 2-3 times per week) and experienced 2 bleeding episodes, both responsive 
to treatment with commercial FVIII concentrate. In the second communication received approximately 
12 months after completion of study participation, the study site communicated that the patient had no 
symptoms of inhibitor since he concluded his participation in study 310. The standard of care at this 
respective study site is to perform inhibitor titres only when clinically indicated. Since there have been 
no  perceived  treatment  failures  and  since  the  prior  inhibitor  finding  was  transient,  no  follow-up 
inhibitor assays have been performed 
23/70 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Patient 4404:   
In  the  5  months  subsequent  to  the  final  study  contact  (per  communication  from  study  site),  patient 
004404  had  2  clinic  visits  and  several  telephone  contacts  with  the  study  site.  Over  this  interval  the 
patient was treated on demand. He averaged about 2 bleeding episodes per month and received 1000 
IU  of  FVIII  concentrate  (approximately 15  IU/Kg) following  every  bleed  with  good  clinical  results.  
Standard  of  care  at  the  study  site  is  to  perform  inhibitor  titres  only  when  clinically  indicated.  Since 
there have been no perceived treatment failures and since the prior inhibitor finding was transient, no 
follow-up  inhibitor  assays  have  been  performed.    An  inquiry  has  been  made  to  the  study  site  for 
further  follow-up  regarding  the  clinical  inhibitor  status  of  patient  4404,  response  to  this  inquiry  is 
pending. 
In  study  310,  adverse  events  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  moroctocog  alfa 
(AF-CC)  (both  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  and  treatment-emergent  hemophilia  events) 
included the above instances of inhibitor to FVIII (2 patients) and asthenia, hemorrhage, and arthralgia 
(1  patient  each);  these  latter  events  are  not  unexpected  in  this  study  population.  Of  the  3  severe 
treatment-emergent  adverse  events  and  3  severe  treatment-emergent  hemophilia  events  reported  in 
study 310, none were considered related to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). 
3.4.2.2.1 Study 3082B2-311-WW 
Study 311 included 22 patients who received moroctocog alfa for surgical prophylaxis. All 22 patients 
were  followed  up  for  1.327  person  days.  This  study  only  included  white  male  patients  between  the 
ages of 16-65 years. Study 311 was designed in accordance with the CHMP “Note for Guidance on the 
Clinical Investigation of Recombinant Factor VIII and IX Products,” dated October 2000.  
For new products, the NfG specifies provision of physician-reported information pertaining to efficacy 
of hemostasis, loss of blood, and requirement for transfusion for a minimum of 5 patients undergoing 
at  least  10  surgical  procedures.  For  modified  products,  the  NfG  specifies  provision  of  available 
surgical  data  with  no  requirement  for  a  minimum  number  of  patients.    In  addition,  to  establish  the 
efficacy and safety of continuous infusion therapy, the NfG specifies that the study be carried out in at 
least 12 severe hemophilia A (FVIII<1%) patients undergoing elective major surgical procedures. The 
MAH had provided all available surgical efficacy and safety data from study 311 pertaining to the use 
of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  a  modified  recombinant  FVIII  product,  for  surgical  prophylaxis  in  the 
variations. 
The original progress report for study 311 described 8 patients enrolled into the study as of the data cut 
off date (10 Jan 2007).  Of these 8 enrolled patients, 7 were assigned to receive moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) by bolus injection (BI) and underwent elective major surgery, and 3 patients completed the study.  
Safety results for all 8 enrolled patients and efficacy results pertaining to investigator’s assessment of 
hemostatic efficacy, blood loss, and transfusion requirements for all 7 patients who underwent elective 
major  surgery  were  described  in  the  original  progress  report.    As  well,  data  on  6  additional  patients 
who underwent and completed major surgery (using criteria of study 311) in the context of supporting 
study 3082B1-306-GL (study 306) have been provided. Surgical operative efficacy of moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) for these 6 patients was rated as “very useful” for 5 procedures and “useful” for 1 procedure.  
Data  regarding  preoperative  and  perioperative  dosing,  operative  efficacy  assessments,  transfusion 
requirements (if any), blood loss in surgery, and blood loss following surgery for these 6 patients is 
provided in table 1   
Table 1 
Characteristics of Major Surgeries Performed and Use of Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in Study 306 
Investigat
or/ 
Patient 
No. 
247/461 
Surgical Procedure a 
Open Reduction with Internal 
Fixation  of  Left  Ulna  and 
Radius 
Preoperativ
e Dose 
(IU/kg) 
Total 
Perioperati
ve Dose 
(IU/kg) b 
Operative 
Efficacy 
Assessment 
Require 
Transfu
sion? 
Blood Loss 
In Surgery 
(mL) 
Blood 
Loss After 
Surgery 
(mL) 
52.7 
2823.0 
Useful 
No 
0 
0 
24/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
552/701 
552/703 
562/727 
Arthroscopy  
Arthroscopy  
Right Ankle Arthrodesis  
1254/181 
Resect Right Radial Head 
59.7 
68.2 
3820.0 
Very Useful 
4775.0 
Very Useful 
(Not 
Recorded) 
28.4 
0 
Very Useful 
2130.0 
Very Useful 
1312/951 
Right Ankle Fusion  
51.3 
3748.0 
Very Useful 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
0 
0 
0 
5 
<50 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
a.  Considered major surgery according to the study 3082B2-311-WW protocol. 
b. 
Sources: SX_001a – 04 Oct 05, and GLB_001a2 - 04 Oct 05 
Total perioperative dose is the sum of all doses administered during the pre-operative and intra-operative periods. 
The MAH upon request from the CHMP provided updated surgical data with a cut off date of 01 Jun 
2007. The updated progress report describes 22 patients enrolled into the study as of the data cutoff 
date, including the 8 patients described in the original progress report.  Of the 22 enrolled patients, 14 
were  assigned  to  receive  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  by  bolus  injection  (BI)  and  8 patients  by 
continuous infusion (CI).  Twenty-one (21) patients underwent elective major surgery, including 14 BI 
patients and 7 CI patients.  The remaining patient assigned to receive CI had received moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) for  pharmacokinetic assessment but had not undergone surgery.)  Eleven (11) patients had 
completed the study as of the data cutoff date, including 10 BI patients and 1 CI patient.  Safety results 
for  all  22  enrolled  patients  and  efficacy  results  for  all  21  patients  who  underwent  elective  major 
surgery are described in the updated progress report and are also provided in the table below: 
Listing of Surgical and Postsurgical Efficacy Outcomes in Study 311 
Blood Loss (mL) 
Predicted Actual
Intraop
Hemostatic Efficacy  Transfusion(Yes/No) 
Visit 3 
Predicted Actual
Intraop
Actual
Postop
Visit 5 
BI 
or
CI 
CI  Excellent  Excellent No 
No 
Yes 
30 
60 
Normal 
Abnormal 
Intraopa 
N 
Actual 
Postop 
Normal 
Abnormal
Postopa 
2400  AB 
Subject  Description 
of 
Surgical Procedure 
000101  Laparoscopic 
ventral 
incisional 
hernia  repairs  and 
scar revisions 
600 
400 
N 
None 
0 
000601  Total 
right  knee 
BI  Good 
Excellent Yes 
arthroplasty 
001301  Left  ulnar  nerve 
transposition release 
elbow 
001801  Right 
synovectomy 
BI  Excellent  Excellent No 
BI  Good 
Excellent No 
002101  Right 
knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent No 
synovectomy 
002102  Left 
knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent No 
002301  Total 
synovectomy 
left 
replacement 
knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent Yes 
002302  Total 
right  knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent Yes 
replacement 
002303  Total 
right  knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent No 
002304  Total 
knee 
replacement 
left 
replacement, 
followed by revision 
and debridement 
BI  Excellent  Excellent Yes 
002305  Total 
left 
replacement 
knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent Yes 
002306  Total 
right  knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent Yes 
002307  Total 
002308  Total 
replacement 
left 
replacement 
left 
replacement 
knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent Yes 
knee 
BI  Excellent  Excellent Yes 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
60 
100 
100 
1500 
1500 
1500 
1500 
No 
1500 
Yes 
1500 
No 
No 
1500 
1500 
002702  Total 
right  knee 
BI  NESE 
NESE 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
1500 
1700 
replacement 
002703  Right 
hip 
CI  NESE 
NESE 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
1200 
950 
002704  Total 
replacement 
left 
replacement 
knee 
CI  NESE 
NESE 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
1500 
1300 
002705  Total 
right  knee 
CI  Good 
Good 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
1500 
1050 
replacement 
002706  Right 
knee 
CI  Excellent  Excellent No 
No 
No 
200 
0 
arthroscopy 
002707  Total 
right  knee 
CI  Good 
Yes 
Yes 
1500 
1350 
N 
replacement 
25/70 
200 
100 
50 
200 
200 
100 
200 
200 
200 
200 
200 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
0 
0 
0 
50 
0 
N 
1050  N 
1260  N 
1170  N 
450 
N 
1200  N 
1350  N 
1230  N 
980 
N 
0 
500 
N 
0 
0 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
002709  Total 
right  knee 
CI  Good 
Yes 
No 
1500 
500 
N 
replacement 
002710 
a. 
Abnormal; BI = bolus injection; NESE = Not evaluable for surgical efficacy.  
No 
CI 
1500 
Abbreviations:  Intraop  =  intraoperative  period;  Postop  =  postoperative  period;  CI=  continuous  infusion;  N  =  Normal;  AB  = 
Only a limited number of patients in Study 311 have been treated with continuous infusion (CI), but 
the CHMP considered it important to stress that neither current marketed ReFacto nor moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) will have a posology supporting continuous infusion (CI), given the limited clinical data..  
Cases of inhibitors in study 311 
One instance of a low-titre inhibitor has been reported in study 311.   
Subject 2102:  This was an instance of a clinically-silent low-titre inhibitor that was initially detected 
by the central laboratory only during routine protocol-specified surveillance prior to surgery. The local 
laboratory  was  negative  at  the  time.  The  low-titre  inhibitor  (0.8857  BU/mL)  occurred  after  several 
injections  of  plasma-derived  FVIII  concentrate  that  were  preceded  by  only  a  single  does  of 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) for a PK assessment. The clinical course of the patient is described in the 
subject narrative in the updated progress report for study 311. The patient proceeded with surgery and 
had  an  excellent  hemostatic  response  to  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  and  no  bleeding  complications.  
The patient was clinically asymptomatic throughout the study.  Repeat inhibitor testing at the time of 
his final visit showed a persistent positive result from both the central and local laboratory of 1.5108 
BU/mL and 1.4 BU/mL, respectively. This patient had received treatment with plasma-derived FVIII 
prior to study and did not have a history of treatment with ReFacto. One communication received 9 
months  following  completion  of  study  participation,  has  been  provided  by  the  study  site  regarding 
clinical inhibitor status of this patient. The patient has been treated on demand since study completion.  
He was retested at the local laboratory for FVIII inhibitors on 2 occasions, on 17 May 2007 (result 1.6 
BU) and 11 Jul 2007 (results 0.8 BU).  During this interval he experienced 6 bleeding episodes, 3 have 
been  treated  with  recombinant  factor  VIIa,  and  3  have  been  treated  with  plasma  derived  FVIII 
concentrates. No information is available regarding treatment results. 
As described in the updated progress report for study 311, the above event of a low-titre inhibitor was 
the  only  adverse  event  (both  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  and  treatment-emergent  hemophilia 
events) considered by the investigator to be related to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC).  
The  current  updated  results  from  study  311  contains  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  21  patients 
undergoing  elective  major  surgery  giving  good  evidence  in  support  of  a  preserved  and  comparable 
efficacy and safety as current ReFacto.  
The study is still ongoing and the MAH committed to provide the final results upon completion of the 
study. 
3.4.2.2.3 Studies 3082B1-306-WW and 3082B1-30-7WW 
Study 307 was a continuation study for patients who completed study 306. 
Ninety-eight patients from study 306 were enrolled in the extension study 307. Study 307 was initiated 
to  provide  data  related  to  extended  use  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  and  patient  exposure  to 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in study 307 was significantly longer in duration than in study 306 (median 
exposure days, 169).   
In  the  study  3082B1-306-GL  (study  306),  110  patients  had  a  median  exposure  of  58  exposure  days 
(range 5-140). 
In  conclusion,  the  efficacy  results  supports  the  findings  in  the  pivotal  studies.  There  are  minor 
differences that can be explained by the difference between US and EU in treatment regimes, e.g. the 
use of prophylactic treatment and on-demand treatment.  
26/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4.2.3 Discussion on efficacy data  
3.4.2.3.1 Assessment of on–demand treatment using the 4-point response scale 
During the assessment, the MAH was asked to clarify the assessment of on demand treatment using 4-
point response scales in studies 306 and 310. The 4-point response scale used in study 306 is different 
from  the  one  used  in  pivotal  studies  and  the  results  are  therefore  not  comparable.  In  study  306  the 
“best  responses  seen  with  other  FVIII  products  with  similar  bleeds  or  procedures”  is  assessed.  It  is 
very  unlikely  that  patient/guardian  have  the  qualification  necessary  to  make  this  judgement  because 
the experience with other product may have been short, a long time ago or only have been treated with 
one product.  
The MAH agreed that the 4-point clinical response scale in supportive study 306 differs from the 4-
point response scale for on-demand treatment used in studies 310 and 311. Despite the differences in 
the rating scales, The MAH submits that rating results from the clinical response scale in study 306 
remain supportive of the results observed in study 310. The clinical response scales in studies 306 and 
310 are presented below in Table 54-1. 
Rating 
Excellent: 
Good: 
Moderate: 
Table 54-1: Clinical Response Scales in Studies 306 and 310 
Study 306 
A satisfactory response—as much and as 
rapid improvement as the best responses seen 
with other FVIII products with similar bleeds 
or procedures 
Study 310 
Abrupt pain relief and/or improvement in 
signs of bleeding within approximately 
8 hours after a single infusion 
A satisfactory response—as much and as 
rapid improvement as most responses seen 
with other factor VIII products with similar 
bleeds or procedures 
Definite pain relief and/or improvement in 
signs of bleeding within approximately 
8 hours after an infusion, but possibly 
requiring more than one infusion for 
complete resolution 
A less than satisfactory response—not as 
good as most responses seen with other factor 
VIII products with similar bleeds or 
procedures 
Probable or slight beneficial effect within 
approximately 8 hours after the first infusion; 
usually requires more than one infusion 
No Response: 
No improvement at all 
No improvement at all, or condition worsens. 
In general these discriminators permit an excellent response to be distinguished from a good response.  
An excellent response is characterized by a more rapid onset and a more complete clinical response 
relative to a good response (Excellent = abrupt pain relief and/or improvement in signs of bleeding as 
opposed  to  Good  =  definite  pain  relief  and/or  improvement  in  signs  of  bleeding).  In  addition  a 
requirement for more than 1 infusion to effect bleed resolution precludes assignment of an excellent 
rating.  While there is the potential for some nominal overlap between excellent and good ratings, this 
overlap is small in magnitude and is entirely mitigated by the fact that excellent and good results are 
pooled in the presentation of rating efficacy data.  
The  use  of  4-point  subjective  response  scales  to  assess  efficacy  of  on-demand  treatment  has  been  a 
feature of nearly all studies evaluating efficacy of recombinant FVIII products; furthermore, pooling 
of excellent and good rating results has been a common feature across studies in discussing efficacy 
results. The pooled descriptions for excellent and good responses in study 310 capture all infusions for 
which  a  substantial/satisfactory  clinical  response  has  been  observed.  While  not  identical  in  text,  the 
pooled descriptions for excellent and good responses in supportive study 306 also capture all infusions 
for which a substantial/satisfactory clinical response has been observed. 
Inclusion criteria for study 306, across all protocol versions, included requirements of ≥250 prior EDs, 
severe hemophilia (FVIII:C ≤2%), and age ≥6 years.  The MAH proposed that these criteria ensured 
that each participating patient (or his caregiver) had sufficient past experience with responses to FVIII 
replacement  therapy  using  other  product(s)  to  assess  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  treatment  responses 
relative  to  other  FVIII  treatment  product(s).    Protocol  design  for  study  306  specified  that  upon 
27/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
achieving  50  EDs  to  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  patients  were  to  exit  the  study  with  the  option  of 
continuing moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) treatment on extension study 3082B1-307-GL (study 307).  Of 
the 110 patients enrolled in study 306, 104 received prophylactic therapy, 18% on a >3 dose per week 
regimen, 66% on a 3 dose per week regimen, and 16% on a 2 dose per week regimen.  In the context 
of these dosing schedules, completion of the protocol specified 50 EDs would be anticipated within a 
6-month period, an interval sufficiently short to ensure that patients (or their providers) could reflect 
upon prior experience with FVIII replacement therapy as they assessed moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) on-
demand treatment results. 
Based upon comparability of pooled excellent/good assessments for studies 310 and 306, the extensive 
FVIII  product  treatment  experience  patients  in  study  306  had  prior  to  study  entry,  and  the  limited 
duration  of  study  306,  The  MAH  proposed  that  rating  scale  results  from  study  306  are  indeed 
supportive of the results observed in pivotal study 310. 
The MAH recognizes the limitations and differences of The The use of the 4-point rating scale used in 
study  306  and  310  respectively,  but  has  provided  arguments  in  favour  of  its  use  as  supportive 
information. This was accepted by CHMP. 
3.4.2.3.2 Efficacy and safety in major surgery 
The  efficacy  and  safety  endpoints  used  to  characterize  the  use  of  ReFacto  AF-CC  in  patients 
undergoing major surgery are relevant except for “A comparison of the predicted and actual estimated 
blood loss and transfusion requirements.” With many different centres recruiting patients the numbers 
of surgeons is going to be large leading to subjective evaluation of bleeding that can hardly be used to 
predict bleeding from centre to centre. It can only predict bleeding from surgeon to surgeon but this is 
not relevant for this study.   
The  MAH  agreed  with  the  above  CHMP  comments  that,  given  the  number  of  centres  recruiting 
patients and given the large number of surgeons, the subjective evaluation of bleeding by surgeons can 
hardly  be  used  to  predict  bleeding  from  centre  to  centre.  However,  that  prediction  of  bleeding  from 
centre to centre, or from surgeon to surgeon, is not the intent of this secondary objective. The intent of 
this  secondary  objective  is  a  within-patient  comparison  of  predicted  and  actual  blood  loss  and  a 
within-patient comparison of predicted and actual transfusion requirements. 
The  protocol  for  study  311  specifies  that  “the  investigator  must  prospectively  predict  the  estimated 
blood loss and transfusion needs of the patient, for both bolus injection (BI) and continuous infusion 
(CI)  patients.”  The  protocol  further  specifies  that  “in  their  estimate,  the  investigators  should  assume 
the  surgery  will  be  completed  without  major  complications  and  may  use  their  standard  transfusion 
guidelines,  if  available.  This  estimate  will  be  compared  to  the  actual  recorded  blood  loss  during 
surgery  and  any  transfusions  occurring  in  surgery.”  These  specifications  are  made  at  the  study  site 
level  by  the  investigator,  based  upon  typical  experience  at  that  study  site  for  a  given  surgical 
procedure. Although clinical practices, operating room techniques, and supportive care guidelines may 
vary  across  treatment  centres,  these  practices  are  generally  uniform  within  a  given  treatment  centre. 
Furthermore, at hemophilia treatment centres, clinical practice is to have all surgical procedures of a 
given type performed by a given surgeon. Thus, the protocol-specified within-patient comparison of 
projected  and  actual  blood  loss  and  transfusion  requirements  eliminates  the  variables  of  multiple 
surgeons  and  differing  treatment  practices  across  study  sites  from  the  comparison  of  predicted  and 
actual  blood  loss  and  transfusion  requirements.  The  only  variables  remaining  are  the  use  of 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  FVIII  replacement  therapy  and  the  patient.  Therefore,  as  designed  in  the 
protocol, the comparison of predicted and actual blood loss and transfusion requirements on a within-
patient  basis  is  an  appropriate  secondary  objective  as  hemostatic  efficacy  is  assessed  in  the  surgical 
setting. Consistent with this investigational design, results pertaining to transfusion requirements and 
blood  loss  are  discussed  as  a  summary  of  the  respective  within-patient  experiences,  referencing 
departures from predicted rather than absolute measures for bleeding or transfusion requirements. 
The  CHMP  considered  the  MAH  clarifications  on  the  purpose  of  the  endpoint  and  its  limitations 
acceptable.  
28/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4.2.3.3 Data on induction of immune tolerance 
Clinical information regarding use of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in immune tolerance is very limited.  
In  studies  306  and  307,  patients  who  had  an  inhibitor  could  continue  treatment  with  the  same  or  a 
higher  dose  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  at  the  discretion  of  the  investigator.  In  these  studies,  an 
immune tolerance regimen could be considered, if appropriate. During study 306, 2 recurrent and 1 de 
novo FVIII inhibitor were detected for 3 patients. One of these patients was withdrawn from the study 
and 2 patients underwent immune tolerance therapy (ITT) with moroctocog alfa (AF-CC).  The latter 2 
patients  subsequently  enrolled  in  long-term  extension  study  307  and  continued  their  ITT  with 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). Each patient had experienced clinical resolution of his inhibitor. 
During  the  clinical  study  of  ReFacto  in  PUPs,  32  cases  of  inhibitor  development  were  reported. 
Sixteen  patients  developed  high-responder  inhibitors  (>5  BU)  and  16  patients  developed  low-
responder inhibitors.  Of the 16 patients who developed high-responder inhibitors, 15 underwent ITT 
with disappearance of inhibitor in 11 of these patients, for a success rate of 73% (11/15). Of the 16 
patients  who  developed  low-responder  inhibitors,  10  underwent  ITT  with  disappearance  of  the 
inhibitor in 9 of these patients, for a success rate of 90% (9/10). Insofar as moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) is 
the  same  molecular  entity  as  ReFacto  and  comparability  has  been  established  between  moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) and ReFacto, the MAH maintains that comparable outcomes may be anticipated when 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) is used in the off-label setting, for the induction of immune tolerance. 
The  International  Study  of  Immune  Tolerance  Therapy  is  an  independent,  ongoing  study  that  is 
assessing  outcomes  for  2  different  regimens  of  ITT.  Each  patient  is  treated  with  a  commercially 
available product of his physician’s choice. Once market authorization is granted for moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC), some patients enrolled in this study may be treated with moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). Results 
for  this  study  are  currently  blinded,  but  information  regarding  outcomes  is  being  captured  on  a 
product-by-product basis and is expected to be available at study completion. These results may serve 
to further inform expectations of clinical outcomes when using moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) for ITT. 
3.4.2.3.4 Patient population and neoantigenicity 
The MAH provided evidence on whether or not the patient population selected for study 306 did not 
consist  of  patients  receiving  factor  VIII  regularly.  This  may  be  an  important  difference  between  the 
pivotal and supportive studies when assessing neoantigenicity. The applicant was asked to justify the 
impact on the results presented. 
In  study  310,  patients  were  required  to  receive  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  for  routine  prophylaxis  3 
times per week over 6 months during the safety and efficacy period of the study. Of the 94 enrolled 
patients, 89 patients (95%) accrued at least 50 EDs to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). The median time on 
study  for  all  94 enrolled  patients  was  240.5  days  (range  149-301  days),  or  approximately  8  months.  
This  duration  includes  a  median  time  on  routine  prophylaxis  (from  day  of  first  routine  prophylactic 
dose to day of last study visit) of 178 days. 
In comparison, patients enrolled in supportive study 306 beginning with protocol amendment 1 were 
required to receive moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) for routine prophylaxis at least 2 times per week (with 
the exception of patients continuing from study 305 who had the option to administer moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC)  on  an  on-demand  basis)  for  a  minimum  of  50  EDs.  No  patient  was  enrolled  under  the 
original  protocol.  Based  on  this  study  design,  patients  who  received  routine  prophylaxis  at  least  2 
times per week were expected to accrue 50 EDs in 6 months or less. 
One hundred ten patients were enrolled in study 306, and 104 patients received routine prophylaxis at 
least 2 times per week.  Of the 110 enrolled patients, 98 patients (89%) had at least 50 EDs, 6 patients 
(5%) had between 45 and 49 EDs, and 6 patients (5%) had fewer than 45 EDs (range 5 to 39 EDs). 
The median time on study for all 110 patients was 157.5 days (range 29-546 days), or approximately 5 
months. 
29/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  on  this  comparison,  the  MAH  proposed  that  the  pattern  of  exposure  to  moroctocog  alfa  
(AF-CC) was sufficiently similar between study 310 and supportive study 306 such that there was no 
impact on the assessment of neoantigenicity between the studies. Based on the additional information 
provided above, t he CHMP considered the MAH justifications acceptable. 
3.4.2.3.5 Bleeding frequency 
the 
frequencies  of  bleeding 
When  comparing 
study 
3082B2-310-WW  some  differences  were  noticed.  In  study  3082B2-310-WW  60.6%  had  no 
spontaneous bleeding compared to 49% in study 306 and 45.7% had no bleeding at all compared to 
24% in study 306. Furthermore, the observed ABR in this study differs from the ABR observed in the 
pivotal study 3082B2-310-WW  
study  3082B1-306-GL  with 
in 
Statistics 
Median 
Mean 
Std Dev 
Min 
Max 
95 % CI 
3082B2-310-WW 
Pivotal 
Spontaneous 
0 
1.9 
4.1 
0 
30.1 
(1.1, 2.7) 
3082B1-306-GL 
Supportive 
Spontaneous 
1.3 
4.2 
6.5 
0 
44.7 
3082B2-310-WW 
Pivotal 
Total 
1.9 
3.9 
6.5 
0 
42.1.1 
(2.6, 5.2) 
3082B1-306-GL 
Supportive 
Total 
5.2 
7.7 
8.6 
0 
44.7 
These  findings  could  support  the  concern  on  whether  the  supportive  studies  really  are  supportive  or 
studies  with a  different  dose  regime  in  a  different  study population  with  a  study  drug  with  different 
efficacy  than  the  one  commercially  available.  The  applicant  was  asked  during  the  procedure  to 
comment on these findings and the impact on the results with two different dosing strategies (2 times a 
week (supportive studies) and 3 times a week (pivotal studies)).   
The MAH proposed that the observed differences in prophylaxis efficacy outcomes between study 310 
and  supportive  study 306 can  be  attributed  to  differences  in  protocol-specified  criteria  regarding  the 
selection of dosing regimen and dose escalation during routine prophylaxis, rather than to differences 
in the efficacy of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in these studies. 
In  study  310,  routine  prophylactic  dosing  was  initiated  using  the  same  dosing  regimen  at  step  1 
(30 ± 5 IU/kg  3  times  per  week)  for  all  patients.  Predefined  escape  criteria  provided  rules  for  dose 
escalation to higher intensity dosing regimens, initially to step 2 (45 ± 5 IU/kg 3 times a week), and 
then to more frequent or higher doses as determined by the investigator. Escape criteria for escalating 
to a higher step (eg, step 1 to step 2) were either (a) 2 spontaneous (atraumatic) bleeding episodes into 
major joints such as elbow, ankle, or knee joint(s) or other target joints over a 28-day period, or (b) 3 
or  more  spontaneous  bleeding  episodes  over  a  28-day  period.  In  study  310,  patients  received  6347 
infusions  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  for  routine  prophylaxis,  with  a  median  dose  per  infusion  of 
30.2  IU/kg.  The  incidence  of  dose  escalation  was  low,  with  only  7  dose  escalations  prescribed  for 
6 patients. 
In  comparison,  patients  in  study  306  were  to  receive  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  at  least  2  times  per 
week for routine prophylaxis, at a dose and schedule as determined by the investigator. There were no 
protocol-specified criteria for dose escalation in the study. In study 306, the majority of prophylactic 
infusions  (66%,  3592/5483)  were  administered  3  times  per  week,  followed  by  >3  times  per  week 
(18%,  992/5483)  and 2  times  per  week  (16%,  899/5483).  (Note,  that  patients  who  were  on  multiple 
regimens are counted more than once in this distribution.) The median dose per prophylactic infusion 
was 31.6 IU/kg for the 2 times per week regimen, 30.1 IU/kg for the 3 times per week regimen, and 
40.0 IU/kg for the >3 times per week regimen.  
The  median  and  mean  ABR  for  spontaneous  bleeds  were  0.0  and  1.9  respectively  in  study  310 
compared with 1.3 and 4.2 respectively in study 306 (Table 55-1). 
30/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
306 
Supportive 
3 times per week 
Statistic 
0 
Median 
4.2 
Mean 
6.9 
SD 
0 
Min 
44.7 
Max 
95 % CI 
ND 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; ND = not determined; SD = standard deviation 
Table 55-1: Annualized Spontaneous Bleeding Rates in Studies 310 and 306 
306 
Supportive 
2 times per week 
1.1 
5.0 
8.7 
0 
31.2 
ND 
306 
Supportive 
Overall 
1.3 
4.2 
6.5 
0 
44.7 
ND 
310 
Pivotal 
Overall 
0 
1.9 
4.1 
0 
30.1 
(1.1, 2.7) 
306 
Supportive 
>3 times per week 
2.6 
6.1 
9.3 
0 
33.1 
ND 
Several elements of the design of study 306 contribute to these observations. 
•  A  subset  of  prophylaxis  treatment  in  study  306  was  delivered  at  a  low  frequency  
(2  infusions  per  week)  relative  to  that  specified  in  study  310  (3  infusions  per  week).    The 
subset of patients treated at this frequency, in its entirety, would have received more intensive 
routine prophylaxis treatment a priori in the context of the protocol for study 310, most likely 
resulting in a lower ABR. 
•  The protocol for study 306 did not have pre-specified criteria for prophylaxis dose/frequency 
escalation;  dose/frequency  escalation  was  instead  at  the  investigator’s  discretion.    Therefore 
patients  experiencing  spontaneous  breakthrough  bleeding  episodes  could  undergo  dose 
escalation on a delayed basis or not at all, in either instance contributing to an increased ABR 
across prophylaxis regimens. 
As well, results of prophylaxis treatment in study 306 are consistent with investigator bias in assigning 
treatment  regimens.  There  was  very  modest  variation  in  the  ABR  for  spontaneous  bleeds  across 
treatment regimens suggesting that intensity of treatment regimens was titrated based upon observed 
or historic susceptibility to bleeding episodes. Patients displaying more susceptibility to bleeding were 
most likely assigned to more intensive regimens. The design of prophylaxis in study 310 did not allow 
for such bias in assignment of prophylaxis treatment regimens 
The median and mean ABR for all bleeds was 1.9 and 3.9, respectively, in study 310 compared with 
5.2 and 7.7, respectively, in study 306 (Table 55-2).  As is the case for the observed spontaneous ABR, 
differences in protocol design can account for the  increased ABR for all bleeding episodes that was 
observed in study 306.  These differences include the lower intensity of prophylaxis that was permitted 
in  study  306  and  the  absence  of  prespecified  dose-escalation  criteria.    As  was  the  case  for  with 
spontaneous bleed results, results for all bleeds in study 306 are also consistent with an investigator 
bias  in  assigning  treatment  regimens.    Mean  ABR  is  comparable  for  all  bleeds  across  treatment 
regimens,  suggesting  that  investigators  in  study  306  prescribed  the  dose  and/or  frequency  of 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  according  to  the  severity  of  patients’  clinical  presentation.    Such  dosage 
adjustments were based on the investigator’s clinical judgment and may not have achieved the degree 
of hemostasis in all patients that a standard prophylactic regimen would have.  Increases in bleeding 
rates due to variations in dose and/or frequency have been reported for other FVIII products, whether 
due to variable compliance of the patient population or differences in practices with regard to intensity 
of prophylaxis treatment.  
Table 55-2: Annualized Overall Bleeding Rates in Studies 310 and 306  
310 
Pivotal 
Overall 
306 
Supportive 
Overall 
306 
Supportive 
2 times per week 
306 
Supportive 
3 times per week 
306 
Supportive 
>3 times per week 
Statistic 
Median 
Mean 
Std Dev 
Min 
Max 
95 % CI 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; ND = not determined; SD = standard deviation 
1.9 
3.9 
6.5 
0 
42.1.1 
(2.6, 5.2) 
2.9 
8.1 
11.6 
0 
41.6 
ND 
5.2 
7.7 
8.6 
0 
44.7 
ND 
5.7 
8.0 
9.0 
0 
44.7 
ND 
5.1 
8.2 
9.3 
0 
33.1 
ND 
31/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus, the observed differences in bleeding rates between pivotal study 310 and supportive study 306 
are accounted for by differences in study design. Efficacy of prophylaxis treatment with moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) in both studies is demonstrated when compared to the ABR of 23 bleed rates observed 
for patients during on-demand treatment in the pivotal study of ReFacto in previously treated patients 
(3082A1-300-GL).  Therefore,  the  MAH  maintains  that  efficacy  results  from  study  306  corroborate 
those from study 310, and that moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) was efficacious in the control and prevention 
of bleeding in both studies. 
The MAH provided good evidence in support of the view that the observed differences in prophylaxis 
efficacy  outcomes  between  study  310  and  supportive  study  306  can  be  attributed  to  differences  in 
protocol-specified criteria regarding the selection of dosing regimen and dose escalation during routine 
prophylaxis, rather than to differences in the efficacy of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in these studies. 
3.4.2.3.6 Consumption calculation for bleeding episodes 
The Note for Guidance suggests consumption calculations for bleeding episodes (on-demand-regimen) 
and  (major)  surgery:  Clinical  efficacy  should  be  assessed  by  calculating  the  consumption  of  FVIII, 
expressed  as  IU/kg  per  event  (prophylaxis,  on-demand,  and  surgery).  In  the  light  of  inconsistencies 
and individual deviations concerning the 4-point response scales this information could be useful. The 
MAH was asked to calculate the dose (IU) per kg per bleeding episode, and the dose (IU) per kg per 
surgical  procedure.These  numbers  are  easily  comparable  and  might  be  more  meaningful  than  an 
individual response scale.  
In study 310, 51 of 94 enrolled patients had 180 bleeding episodes while receiving moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) for routine prophylaxis. All values expressed in IU/kg were provided including the total dose 
of  all  infusions,  the  dose  of  the  first  infusion,  and  the  mean  dose  per  infusion  administered  per 
bleeding episode. 
In  study  311,  22  enrolled  patients  were  assigned  to  receive  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  by  BI  (n=14) 
and  or  CI  (n=8)  as  of  01  Jun  2007.  Twenty-one  patients,  including  14  BI  and  7  CI  patients,  each 
underwent 1 surgical procedure. (One patient was assigned to receive CI had received moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC)  for  pharmacokinetic  assessment  but  had  not  undergone  surgery.)  All  values  expressed  in 
IU/kg  were  provided  including  the  dose  administered  during  the  preoperative,  operative,  and 
postoperative periods as well as the total dose administered across all these periods by Bolus infusion 
per patient (or surgical procedure) and by Continuous Infusion per surgical procedure.   
 The CHMP  concluded that there is no cause for concern with regard to the efficacy of moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC). 
3.4.2.3.7 Overview of patient population 
Of the 116 patients enrolled in the pivotal studies at the time of filing, 18 paediatric patients (aged 12 
to 16 years) had been exposed to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) (Tables below). 
32/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 0-1: Clinical Trial Exposure by Age Group and Gender (Study 310) 
Age Group at First Study Entry 
12-16 years 
17-65 years 
Persons 
Person days 
M 
18 
76 
F 
0 
0 
M 
3803 
15954 
F 
0 
0 
Abbreviations: F=female; M=male. DEMO4_RISK -  19MAR08 10:10 
Table 0-2: Clinical Trial Exposure by Age Group and Gender (Study 311) 
Age Group at First Study Entry 
F 
0 
17-65 years 
Abbreviations: F=female; M=male. DEMO4_RISK -  19MAR08 10:06 
Persons 
M 
22 
Person days 
M 
1327 
F 
0 
Clinical trial exposure information for studies 3082B1-305-GL (305), 306, and 307 is shown in Tables 
below. A total of 51 paediatric patients (aged 6 to 16 years) were exposed to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
in these studies: 49 patients from study 306 (including 46 patients who later participated in study 307) 
and 2 patients who participated in study 305 but did not participate in studies 306 and 307. 
Of the 30 patients enrolled in study 305, 30 received a single dose of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) (50 
IU/kg) and 29 received a single dose of ReFacto (50 IU/kg).   
Duration of Exposure 
Persons 
Person days 
Table 0-3: Clinical Trial Exposure by Duration (Study 305) 
349 
Cumulative up to 1 month 
Cumulative up to 3 months 
362 
Total person time in the study : 362 days. DEMO4_RISK_CT_305 - 19MAR08 10:16 
30 
30 
Table 0-4: Clinical Trial Exposure by Dose (Study 305) 
Total Exposure in IU 
Persons 
0 - 3330 
3331 – 3562 
3563 – 3835 
> 3835 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_305 - 19MAR08 10:16 
8 
7 
8 
7 
Person days by 
Quartiles 
90 
92 
75 
105 
Table 0-5: Clinical Trial Exposure by Age Group and Gender  (Study 305) 
Person days 
F 
M 
Age Group at First Study Entry 
Persons 
M 
F 
6 
12 years - 16 years 
23 
17 years - 65 years 
> 65 years 
1 
Abbreviations: F=female; M=male. Minimum age is 12 years, maximum age is 70 years. 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_305 - 19MAR08 10:16 
84 
270 
8 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Table 0-6: Clinical Trial Exposure by Ethnic Origin (Study 305) 
Race 
Black 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Persons 
Person days 
2 
25 
3 
15 
329 
18 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_305 - 19MAR08 10:16 
In study 306, 110 patients received more than 16 million IU given over 7035 infusions over 6860 exposure days.  The median 
dose per infusion was 32.2 IU/kg (range, 10.2 to 127 IU/kg), and the median number of infusions per patient was 59.5 (range, 
5 to 156). 
Duration of Exposure 
Persons 
Person days 
Table 0-7: Clinical Trial Exposure by Duration (Study 306) 
Cumulative up to 1 month 
Cumulative up to 3 months 
110 
110 
33/70 
3299 
9718 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
Duration of Exposure 
Persons 
Person days 
Table 0-7: Clinical Trial Exposure by Duration (Study 306) 
16620 
Cumulative up to 6 months 
18377 
Cumulative up to 12 months 
Cumulative up to 18 months 
18701 
Total person time in the study : 18701 days. DEMO4_RISK_CT_306 - 19MAR08 10:16 
110 
110 
110 
Table 0-8: Clinical Trial Exposure by Dose (Study 306) 
Total Exposure in IU 
0 - 108278 
108279 - 135629 
135630 - 169876 
> 169876 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_306 - 19MAR08 10:16 
Persons 
27 
28 
27 
28 
Person days by 
Quartiles 
4193 
4836 
4270 
5402 
Table 0-9: Clinical Trial Exposure by Age Group and Gender (Study 306) 
Persons 
Age Group at First Study Entry 
Person days 
M 
F 
M 
6 years - 11 years 
12 years - 16 years 
17 years - 65 years 
> 65 years 
Abbreviations: F=female; M=male. Minimum age is 7 years, maximum age is 70 years. 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_306 - 19MAR08 10:16 
1972 
5517 
10924 
288 
14 
35 
59 
2 
0 
0 
0 
0 
F 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Race 
Persons 
Person days 
Table 0-10: Clinical Trial Exposure by Ethnic Origin (Study 306) 
Asian 
Black 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Other 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_306 - 19MAR08 10:16 
1 
5 
95 
6 
3 
128 
1169 
16204 
755 
445 
In study 307, 96 patients received in excess of 41.7 million IU of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) administered over a minimum of 
17,169 infusions over at least 16,948 exposure days (median, 169 exposure days per patient). 
Duration of Exposure 
Persons 
Person days 
Table 0-11: Clinical Trial Exposure by Duration (Study 307) 
Cumulative up to 1 month 
Cumulative up to 3 month 
Cumulative up to 6 month 
Cumulative up to 12 months 
Cumulative up to 18 months 
Cumulative up to 2 years 
Cumulative up to 3 years 
Total person time in the study : 49127 days.DEMO4_RISK_CT_307 - 19MAR08 10:16 
2910 
8686 
17414 
32330 
43457 
48846 
49127 
97 
97 
97 
97 
97 
97 
97 
Table 0-12: Clinical Trial Exposure by Dose (Study 307) 
Total Exposure in IU 
0 - 210756 
210757 - 362772 
362773 - 584595 
> 584595 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_307 - 19MAR08 10:16 
Persons 
25 
24 
24 
24 
Person days by 
Quartiles 
7597 
10552 
14572 
16406 
Table 0-13: Clinical Trial Exposure by Age Group and Gender (Study 307) 
Person days 
M 
Persons 
M 
F 
Age Group at First Study Entry 
F 
34/70 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
Table 0-13: Clinical Trial Exposure by Age Group and Gender (Study 307) 
Person days 
M 
Persons 
M 
F 
Age Group at First Study Entry 
6 years - 11 years 
12 years - 16 years 
17 years - 65 years 
> 65 years 
Abbreviations: F=female; M=male. Minimum age is 7 years, maximum age is 70 years. 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_307 - 19MAR08 10:16 
5708 
19763 
23056 
600 
13 
33 
50 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
F 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Race 
Persons 
Person days 
Table 0-14: Clinical Trial Exposure by Ethnic Origin (Study 307) 
Asian 
Black 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Other 
DEMO4_RISK_CT_307 - 19MAR08 10:16 
1 
4 
83 
6 
3 
349 
1472 
42320 
2879 
2107 
3.4.2.4 Discusion on safety data 
3.4.2.4.1 Safety profile in the paediatric population 
Data pertaining to test article exposure and safety (treatment-emergent adverse events and hemophilia 
events)  from  study  306  have  been  analyzed  for  the  following  age  groups:  all  ages  (n=110),  6  to  11 
years  (n=14),  12  to  16  years  (n=35),  17  to  65  years  (n=59),  and  older  than  65  years  (n=2).  
Comparisons are made between either paediatric age group (6 to 11 years, 12 to 16 years) versus adult 
patients aged 17 to 65 years. 
For  patients  aged  6  to  11  years,  the  median  dose  per  infusion  was  45.2  IU/kg  (range,  22.6  to  127.0 
IU/kg), and the median number of exposure days was 56 (range, 51 to 88).  For patients aged 12 to 16 
years,  the  median  dose  per  infusion  was  37.8  IU/kg  (range,  12.3  to  106.5  IU/kg),  and  the  median 
number of exposure days was 60 (range, 48 to 114).  In comparison, the median dose per infusion was 
29.1 IU/kg (range, 10.2 to 126.9 IU/kg) and the median number of exposure days was 59 (range, 5 to 
140) for adult patients.  
The higher doses administered to paediatric patients may reflect the common practice to use full vials 
of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  without discarding  any drug,  as  well  as  the  relatively  lower  weight  of 
these patients compared with adult patients. 
Comparison of events across age groups revealed few differences in the safety profile of moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) in paediatric patients compared with the overall study population. Events reported with 
an incidence ≥10% and at least 2 times higher in patients aged 6 to 11 years than in adult patients were 
fever (29% vs 3%, respectively), vomiting (29% vs 3%), nausea (21% vs 2%), cough increased (21% 
vs 10%), rhinitis (21% vs 8%), abdominal pain (14% vs 2%), and pharyngitis (14% vs 3%). Events 
reported with an incidence ≥10% and at least 2 times higher in patients aged 12 to 16 years than in 
adult patients were infection (34% vs 17%, respectively), pharyngitis (29% vs 3%), back pain (14% vs 
7%), and diarrhea (14% vs 2%). These events largely reflect the spectrum of illnesses commonly seen 
in paediatric and adolescent patients and are observed in these populations at a higher frequency than 
in adults.  None of these differences were deemed clinically important. These safety results are similar 
to those obtained for paediatric patients (12 to 16 years) in study 310 according to the MAH. 
In  addition  to  the  above  data,  the  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  commit  to  provide  the  final  study 
report of study 3082B2-313WW ongoing in the paediatric population and perform additional studies 
in children (see RMP/Post marketing studies). 
Information on frequencies of adverse events in paediatric population compared to adults 
35/70 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  states  that  some  reported  adverse  events  occurred  at  a  higher  frequency  in  the  age 
groups 6 to 11 and 12 to 16 years compared to adults. However, the majority of these reported events 
also included events that were considered to be unrelated by the investigator. Therefore, the applicant 
further analyzed these data taking into account the causality to assess if there was evidence for an age-
related difference in the incidence of related adverse events or hemophilia events. 
The  applicant  has  performed  an  age-stratified  analysis  of  treatment  emergent  adverse  events  and 
hemophilia events that were judged by the investigator to be at least possibly related to moroctocog 
alfa. This analysis showed a similar frequency of moroctocog alfa related events on a per-patient basis 
across age groups, the frequency of moroctocog alfa-related events on a per-infusion basis may also be 
expected to be similar if study drug exposure was comparable across age groups since examination of 
dose  administration  information  from  studies  306  and  310  indicates  that  the  median  number  of 
infusions was similar between age groups. 
With regard to frequencies of AEs in children, the CHMP interpretation of the data provided does not 
fully concur with that of the applicant.  
The  applicant  states  that,  that  there  is  a  higher  frequency  of  reported  AEs  in  children  compared  to 
adults.  However  according  to  the  applicant  further  to  an  age-stratified  analysis,  there  is  a  higher 
frequency  reported  AEs  in  children  compared  to  adults.    However,  according  to  the  applicant  this 
seems not to be found anymore.  
There  is  still  a  higher  frequency  rate  observed  in  children  although  the  number  of  patients  in  the 
children groups is limited. In study 310, the supportive tables seem to confirm the higher frequency 
rate of AE in children (5.6 versus 2.6). Again, this higher frequency is observed even though limited 
data are provided in children compared to adults. 
Although  data  in  children  are  limited,  there  seems  to  be  a  slightly  higher  frequency  of  AEs  in  the 
younger age-groups. The CHMP recommended that the SPC included a statement along the following 
lines:  “Although  a  limited  number  of  children  have  been  studied,  there  is  a  tendency  for  higher 
frequencies  of  AEs  in  children  aged  7-16  as  compared  to  adults.  A  clinical  trial  evaluating  use  of 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in children less than 6 years is on going. 
3.4.2.4.2 Incidence of inhibitors 
Incidence of inhibitors in studies 305, 306 and 307 
Since  there  might  have  been  a  signal  from  these  studies  of  increased  immunogenicity  due  to 
manufacturing change, the company was requested to provide more detailed information on incidence 
of inhibitors in studies 305, 306 and 307. The following information was provided. 
Moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  manufactured  using  a  chromogenic  substrate  (CS)  calibrated  working 
potency  standard  was  evaluated  in  studies  3082B1-306-GL  (306)  and  3082B1-307-GL  (307).  The 
dosing used in these studies is therefore similar to that of currently licensed ReFacto.   
De  novo  inhibitors  in  previously  treated  patients  (PTPs)  are  most  important  for  identification  of  a 
signal  of  increased  immunogenicity  following  a  manufacturing  change.  To  distinguish  the  signal  of 
inhibitor  occurrence  in  a  study  secondary  to  product-related  immunogenicity  (a  de  novo  inhibitor) 
from the low but persistent background rate of inhibitor development in PTPs, clinical trials in PTPs 
seek  to  exclude  patients  with  past  history  of  inhibitor.  Thus  any  inhibitor  development  during  the 
study  should  correspond  to  de  novo  inhibitors  and  therefore  may  be  attributed  to  the  study  product 
with greater confidence. In study 306, 3 of 110 patients developed inhibitor to factor VIII (FVIII); all 
3  patients  also  developed  anti-moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  antibodies  as  detected  by  enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent  assay  (ELISA).  However,  only  one  of  the  patients  had  a  de  novo  inhibitor.  The 
remaining  2  patients  had  a  recurrent  inhibitor  and  were  considered  to  be  at  higher  risk  of  inhibitor 
development. Of these 2 patients, the first had a history of low-titre inhibitor and was admitted into the 
study in violation of study entry criteria, and the second had a history of low-level Bethesda inhibitor 
assay  (BIA)  results  (<0.6  BU)  that  did  not  meet  the  study  exclusion  criteria  (≥0.6  BU).  Thus,  the 
incidence of de novo inhibitors observed in study 306 was 1 of 110 patients and is comparable with 
36/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that  reported  for  study  3082B2-310-WW  (310)  and  also  to  that  reported  in  the  literature  for  other 
recombinant FVIII products during registration clinical trials that were similar in general design.  
One patient in study 307 developed a de novo, low-titre inhibitor to FVIII, without developing anti-
moroctocog  antibodies  by  ELISA.  Two  patients  who  had  inhibitor  detected  in  study  306  continued 
into  study 307.    Both  these  patients  began  on  immune  tolerance  induction  therapy  during  study  306 
and tested negative for inhibitor while participating in study 307. 
Comparison of Study 3082B1-306-GL and 3082B1-307-GL Results to the Literature 
The  risk  of  inhibitor  development  is  an  important  safety  concern  associated  with  the  use  of 
FVIII products. Though many studies of inhibitor development have been performed, a single estimate 
of incidence is not available. Meta analysis of these studies has not been feasible because of variability 
in  study  designs,  patient  populations,  and  treatment  modalities  as  well  as  insufficient  information 
relating to data collection techniques. Inhibitor development rates in previously treated patients (PTPs) 
are not well defined in the literature; however, in a surveillance programme described in the literature, 
incidence rates between 1.9% and 3.0% were reported. 
The incidence of de novo inhibitors was 0.9% (1/110 patients) in study 306 and 1.0% (1/98 patients) in 
the  continuation  study  307;  these  rates  are  consistent  with  those  reported  in  the  literature.  In 
comparison,  the  incidence  of  inhibitors  in  the  pivotal  phase  3  PTP  study  of  ReFacto,  which  is  also 
manufactured  by  using  the  CS  calibrated  working  potency  standard,  was  0.9%  (1/113  patients) 
According  to  the  MAH,  these  results  are  consistent  with  the  absence  of  any  signal  of  increased 
immunogenicity following the introduction of the manufacturing changes associated with production 
of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). 
An  analysis  of  the  incidence  rate  of  inhibitors  by  intent-to-treat  (ITT),  including  both  de  novo 
inhibitors  and  recurrent  inhibitors  in  study  306  (2.7%;  3  in  110 patients)  and  the  continuation  study 
307  (1%;  1  in  98  patients),  revealed  rates  that  are  also  consistent  with  the  published  literature 
describing recombinant factor VIII products.  The data for each rFVIII product is summarized below: 
•  Kogenate  (Bayer):  full-length  recombinant  FVIII  (FLrFVIII).    High-titre  inhibitors  developed  in 
2.3% or 2 of 86 PTPs.  In one of these inhibitor patients, Western blot analysis of baseline samples 
detected antibody to FVIII. 
•  Recombinate (Baxter): FLrFVIII.  Inhibitors developed in 2.9% or 2 of 69 PTPs.  One patient had 
a history of a previous low-titre inhibitor, and 1 patient had a low-titre inhibitor at baseline that 
became a high-titre inhibitor. 
•  Kogenate Bayer (Bayer): FLrFVIII.  Inhibitors developed in 1.4% or 1 of 71 PTPs. This patient 
had a low-titre inhibitor (0.39 BU) prior to study entry and was considered to have developed a 
recurrent inhibitor based on this prior history. 
•  Advate (Baxter): FLrFVIII. Inhibitors developed in 0.93% or 1 of 108 PTPs. 
Thus, it may be concluded that the incidence of inhibitors in study 306 and in study 307 is consistent 
with  the  previously  described  experience  with  ReFacto  as  noted  above,  and  also  with  the  reported 
experience for other licensed recombinant factor VIII products. The MAH concluded that study 306 
and  study  307  provide  no  signal  of  increased  immunogenicity  following  the  manufacturing  changes 
associated  with  production  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC).  These  data  are  also  consistent  with  the 
outcomes of study 3082B2-310-WW, which tested this product using a protein content per vial that is 
even higher than currently intended for EU commercialization.  
The  CHMP  concluded  that  these  results  do  not  give  any  signs  of  increased  occurrence  of  inhibitors 
with moroctocog alfa AF-CC as compared to  currently marketed ReFacto or any other recombinant 
FVIII  products.  Further  data  on  incidence  of  inhibitors  will  be  obtained  from  post-authorisation 
studies. 
37/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4.2.4.3 Comparative safety analysis of products with different potencies but same IU/kg dosing 
practice in case of inadvertent substitution of products with different potencies 
Review of data from studies 310 and 306 permits a comparison of the safety of moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) with different potencies and administered by the same dosing practice. Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
manufactured  using  the  OS  calibrated  working  potency  standard  was  evaluated  in  study  310,  while 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  manufactured  using  the  CS  calibrated  working  potency  standard  was 
evaluated in study 306. In both studies, moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) was administered on an IU/kg basis.  
The median dose per infusion was 30.2 IU/kg (range, 6.4 to 76.9 IU/kg) in study 310 compared with 
32.2 IU/kg (range, 10.2 to 127.0 IU/kg) in study 306.   
Comparison of safety data (treatment-emergent adverse event and hemophilia events) from studies 310 
and  306  reveals  similar  safety  profiles.  In  study  310,  the  most  common  events  (incidence  ≥10%) 
affected  the  body  as  a  whole  (headache,  infection,  pain,  and  accidental  injury),  respiratory  system 
(pharyngitis),  and  musculoskeletal  system  (arthralgia).  In  study  306,  the  most  common  events 
(incidence ≥10%) affected the body as a whole (headache, infection, accidental injury, pain, and back 
pain),  respiratory  system  (cough  increased,  pharyngitis,  and  rhinitis),  and  musculoskeletal  system 
(arthralgia). The incidences of these events in both studies are summarized in table below.  
Table 1-15: Number (%) of Patients With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events and Hemophilia 
Events With Incidence ≥10% in Study 310 or 306 
Study 310 
(n=94) 
62 (66) 
Study 306 
(n=110) 
98 (89) 
Event 
Any event 
Body as a whole 
Accidental injury 
Back pain 
Headache 
Infection 
Pain 
Musculoskeletal system 
Arthralgia 
Respiratory system 
Cough increased 
Pharyngitis 
Rhinitis 
10 (11) 
6 (6) 
23 (25) 
17 (18) 
12 (13) 
18 (19) 
3 (3) 
13 (14) 
6 (6) 
48 (44) 
11 (10) 
26 (24) 
26 (24) 
18 (16) 
26 (24) 
15 (14) 
15 (14) 
11 (10) 
In both studies, the majority of events were rated mild or moderate in severity and few severe or life-
threatening events were reported.  In study 310, 5 patients had one or more severe events consisting of 
accidental injury (2 patients), arthralgia (2 patients), pharyngitis (1 patient), and pain (1 patient).  None 
was judged as related to study drug. There were no life-threatening events. In study 306, 14 patients 
had 1 or more severe events consisting of FVIII inhibitor and arthralgia (3 patients each); infection and 
accidental  injury  (2  patients  each);  and  cyst,  flu  syndrome,  hematoma,  mouth  pain,  vomiting, 
ecchymosis, arthritis, joint disorder, myalgia, insomnia, asthma, pneumonia, respiratory disorder, and 
urinary  tract  infection(1  patient  each).    One  patient  had  2  life-threatening  events  of  retroperitoneal 
hemorrhage and healing abnormality.  Of the above events, the cases of FVIII inhibitor in 3 patients (1 
de novo, 1 recurrent, and 1 false positive), and arthralgia and cyst in 1 patient were judged as related to 
study drug. 
The  comparable  outcomes  in  studies  310  and  306  provide  evidence  for  similar  clinical  safety  of 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  over  a  wide  range  of  protein  per  IU  concentrations  that  bracket  that  of 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the European Union (EU). 
3.4.2.4.4 Population studied/ not studied with refactoAF 
The MAH during the procedure was requested by the CHMP to provide detailed information on the 
population not studied with Refacto manufactured with the new process and was asked to specifically 
describe  this  in  the  relevant  RMP  section  including  the  section  dealing  with  important  missing 
information.  
38/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  2  compares  the  population  of  hemophilia  A  patients  treated  with  ReFacto  for  which  clinical 
knowledge is available and the population of hemophilia A patients treated with moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) for which clinical knowledge is available.  
Populations  for  which  clinical  knowledge  regarding  treatment  with  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  is  not 
available are paediatric patients under the age of 6 with hemophilia A, previously untreated patients 
(PUPs) with hemophilia A and hemophilia A patients with inhibitors receiving treatment with FVIII 
(Table 2).   
Table 2: Populations Studied in Clinical Trials of 
ReFacto and Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
ReFacto 
Adult PTPs with severe or moderately severe hemophilia A 
(FVII:C <2%) 
Patients with severe or moderately hemophilia A 
(FVIII:C<5%) undergoing surgery 
Paediatric patients with severe or moderately severe 
hemophilia A (FVIII:C <2%) ages 0-16 
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) 
Adult PTPs with severe or moderately severe hemophilia A 
(FVIII:C <2%) 
PTPs with severe or moderately severe hemophilia A 
(FVIII:C <2%) undergoing surgery 
Paediatric patients with severe or moderately severe 
hemophilia A (FVII:C <2%) 
Age 12-16 years studied in study 310 
Age 6-16 years studied in study 306 
Children under age 6 have not been studied 
Not studied  
PUPs with severe or moderately severe hemophilia (FVIII:C 
<2%) 
Hemophilia A patients with inhibitors receiving treatment 
with ReFacto 
Abbreviations: FVIII:C = factor VIII activity in plasma; PTPs = previously treated patients; PUPs = previously untreated 
Not studied 
patients 
With regards to the population not previously studied; ongoing study 3082B2-313-WW (study 313) is 
evaluating  prophylaxis  treatment,  efficacy,  safety,  and  PK  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  in  children 
under the age of 6 with hemophilia A (FVIII:C<2%).  
To  further  assess  populations  not  previously  studied,  the  MAH  proposed  to  conduct  separate 
postmarketing  safety  and  efficacy  study  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  in  previously  treated  (greater 
than  50  EDs)  children  under  6 years  of  age  and  to include  patients  at  high  risk  for  inhibitors  (those 
with less than 50 EDs to FVIII products). (see later in the report)   
3.4.3 Summary on clinical studies data 
In summary, data from studies 305, 306, and 310 (and 311) support the demonstration of comparable 
clinical efficacy for ReFacto and moroctocog alfa (AF-CC).   
The efficacy result supports the findings in the pivotal studies. There are minor differences that can be 
explained  by  the  difference  between  US  and  EU  in  treatment  regimes,  e.g.  the  use  of  prophylactic 
treatment and on-demand treatment.  
Efficacy and safety in subpopulations 
The experience with moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in paediatric patients is limited. Moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC)  was  studied  in  PTP  children  and  adolescents  (n=18  patients  aged  12-16  years  in  pivotal  study 
3082B2-310-WW;  n=49  patients  aged  7-16  years  in  supportive  study  3082B1-306-GL).  In  study 
3082B2-310-WW,  there  were  no  apparent  differences  in  the  severity  or  incidence  of  treatment-
emergent  adverse  events  between  patients  ≤16  years  of  age  (n=18)  and  patients  >16  years  of  age 
(n=76). 
The  applicant  intends  to  initiate  a  phase  4  study  to  evaluate  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  in  PTPs  less 
than 6 years of age with severe to moderately severe haemophilia A. 
Conclusion on efficacy 
The efficacy results presented in the pivotal and supportive studies are within what is acceptable as per 
guideline.  However,  the  CHMP  guideline  on  clinical  investigation  of  recombinant  FVIII  and  IX 
products  (CPMP/BPWG/1561/99)  is  currently  under  revision.  The  overall  risk  benefit  has  therefore 
been viewed in the light of the proposed updated guideline.  
39/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  310  provided  evidence  for  comparable  pharmacokinetics  between  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC) 
intended for market and Advate  (when the manufacturer’s labeled potency for moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) was based on calibration using a 7th IS, one stage-calibrated, AF-CC potency standard and plasma 
levels were measured by a one stage assay). Study 310 also provided evidence of clinical efficacy and 
further support for preserved efficacy comes from the supportive  
Study 305 clearly demonstrating bioequivalence between current marketed ReFacto and moroctocog 
alfa AF-CC intended for market.  
The  current  updated  results  from  study  311  contains  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  21  patients 
undergoing  elective  major  surgery  giving  good  evidence  in  support  of  a  preserved  and  comparable 
efficacy  and  safety  as  current  ReFacto.  The  study  is  still  ongoing  and  the  MAH  has  committed  to 
provide the final results upon completion of the study. Only a limited number of patients in Study 311 
have  been  treated  with  continuous  infusion  (CI),  but  it  is  important  to  stress  that  neither  current 
marketed ReFacto nor moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) will have a posology supporting continuous infusion 
(CI).  
•  Patient exposure 
Pivotal studies 
Ninety-four patients were enrolled in study 3082B2-310-WW and were treated with at least 1 dose of 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). Of these 94 patients, 31 were enrolled in the PK period of the study as well 
as the SE period of the study, and 27 of these patients also completed the final PK assessment after the 
SE  period  of  the  study  (i.e.,  the  6-month  follow-up  assessment  for  moroctocog  alfa  [AF-CC]  PK 
parameters). 
The cumulative number of EDs for all 94 patients was 6741. The median number of EDs per patient 
was 76 (range 1 to 92 days). A total of 6775 infusions of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) were administered 
with  a  median  dose  per  infusion  of  30.2  IU/kg  (range  6.4  to  76.9  IU/kg).  The  median  number  of 
infusions per patient was 76 (range 1 to 93). 
In study 3082B2-311-WW, 8 patients have been enrolled and 3 patients have concluded the study as 
of 10 Jan 2007. Of the 8 patients, 7 patients have had elective major surgery, including 3 patients who 
had  a  synovectomy,  3  patients  who  had  a  knee  replacement,  and  1  patient  who  had  a  nerve 
transposition;  the  remaining  1 patient  has  completed  the  second  visit  for  pre-surgical  baseline  PK 
assessment.  Updated  results  from  study  311  contains  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  21  patients 
undergoing  elective  major  surgery  giving  good  evidence  in  support  of  a  preserved  and  comparable 
efficacy and safety as current ReFacto. 
Supportive studies 
In  study  3082B1-305-GL,  of  the  30  patients  enrolled,  29  patients  received  a  single  dose  of ReFacto 
and  30  received  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC).In  the  study  3082B1-306-GL,  total  exposure  was  110 
patients and in study 3082B1-307-GL, exposure data were available for 97 patients, for details please 
refer to the clinical assessment. 
•  Adverse events 
Factor VIII inhibitors / LETE 
Pivotal study 
In study 3082B2-310-WW transient, clinically silent, low-titre FVIII inhibitors were detected in only 2 
of  94  patients  (2.1%  of  the  study  population).  Neither  patient  had  clinical  findings  suggestive  of  an 
inhibitor;  there  were  no  spontaneous  bleeding  episodes  while  on  routine  prophylaxis,  no  bleeding 
within 72 hours of a prophylactic dose, no on-demand treatment failures, and no instances of LETE. In 
both  cases  the  inhibitors  were  low  titre,  absent  on  repeat  testing,  and  were  associated  with  negative 
ELISA assays for anti-moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) antibody. 
Supportive studies 
No patient in study 3082B1-305-GL developed FVIII inhibitor. As no assessment of clinical efficacy 
took place in this study no cases of LETE were detected. 
In study 3082B1-306-GL, 3 patients had detectable FVIII inhibitors. One (1) of these patients had de 
novo inhibitor development. The development of inhibitors in the other 2 patients was considered to 
40/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reflect  recurrent  inhibitors.  The  3  patients  with  detectable  inhibitor  levels  also  had  positive  ELISA 
results for anti-moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) antibody. 5 cases of LETE were reported in this study. 
In study 3082B1-307-GL, 1 patient developed a low-titre FVIII inhibitor; this patient did not have a 
positive moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) antibody titre by ELISA. As this study was terminated prematurely 
no efficacy assessment took place.   
•  Serious adverse events and deaths 
In  study  3082B2-310-WW,  2  SAEs  (accidental  injury  and  cellulitis)  were  reported  in  a  total  of  2 
patients (1 event in each patient). These were not related to the study drug. 
No patients died during pivotal studies 3082B2-310-WW and 3082B2-311-WW, nor were there any 
deaths in the supportive studies. 
•  Laboratory findings 
There were no post-baseline changes of clinical importance in other clinical laboratory evaluations in 
studies  3082B2-310-WW  and  3082B2-311-WW.  Similarly,  there  were  no  clinically  important  post-
baseline changes in studies 3082B1-305-GL, 3082B1-306-GL, and 3082B1-307-GL. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No formal analyses of potential drug interactions were performed. 
•  Discontinuation due to AES 
In  study  3082B2-310-WW,  only  1  patient  discontinued  treatment  for  safety-related  reasons  per 
protocol; the patient was withdrawn after detection of a transient, clinically silent inhibitor. The patient 
had  had  38  exposure  days  before  inhibitor  detection,  followed  by  an  additional  28  exposure  days 
before  being  withdrawn  from  the  study.  One  other  patient  in  the  study  also  developed  a  transient, 
clinically silent inhibitor but was not withdrawn from the study because inhibitor was detected at his 
final study visit. There were no withdrawals due to AEs in study 3082B2-311-WW. 
•  PSUR cycle 
The  MAH  proposed  that  adverse  event  reports  for  ReFacto  and  moroctocog  alfa  AF-CC  will  be 
presented  separately  within  the  PSUR  and,  to  the  extent  that  this  information  is  available,  will  be 
analyzed for adverse event trends individually. 
The company should ensure that PSURs reports will include sufficient information regarding switch to 
Refacto AF such as : 
 - inform/document on cases of inhibitor, LETE on ReFacto AF, 
 - updated information on how many patients have switched to ReFacto AF 
- information regarding issues with laboratory measurement 
- information regarding stock status of Refacto according to initial  Company plan  for switching  
Regarding routine pharmacovigilance, appropriate questionnaires for hypersensitivity and LETE effect 
should  be  proposed  by  the  company.    Of  note,  the  allergic  reactions  occurred  at  a  frequency  of  2% 
which is not rare as stated by the company.  
The  MAH  commits  to  undertake  an  FUM  to  include  the  reporting  of  patient/  site,  inhibitor 
development and LETE in the 6 month PSURs. 
The applicant agrees to cease all distribution of Refacto in the EU after the commercialization/ rapid 
transition of moroctocog alfa and to provide details in the 6 month PSURs that Refacto stock has been 
depleted in the EU distribution centres. The applicant agreed to undertake a FUM providing status of 
inventory for the first year of launch of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) in the 6 month. PSUR cycle  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  PSUR  cycle  The  CHMP  suggested  that  the  PSUR  cycle  should  be 
shifted to a 6-monthly frequency at the time of introduction of moroctocog alfa AF-CC into the EU 
market. 
41/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion,  the  MAH  is  required  to  submit  PSURs  at  6-monthly  intervals  for  the  first  two years. 
Then PSURs should be submited once a year for the following 3 years.  
3.5  RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN AND POST AUTHORISATION SAFETY STUDIES 
The  MAH  provided  a  In  various  CHMP  Requests  for  Supplementary  Information,  major  objections 
and  other  concerns  were  raised  in  relation  to  the  initially  proposed  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP) 
during  the  review.  Following  the  assessment  the  applicant  was  asked  to  submit  a  revised  RMP  in 
compliance  with 
the 
Pharmacovigilance  Working  Party  and  it  was  agreed  that  the  RMP  should  cover  both  ReFacto  and 
ReFacto AF.  
In the RMP presented further details have been provided in relation to the various post authorization 
studies  either ongoing or  to be conducted.  
the  review  of  FVIII  products  undertaken  by 
the  conclusions  of 
3.5.1 Pharmacovigilance system 
The  applicant  has  provided  documents  that  set  out  a  detailed  description  of  the  system  of 
for 
pharmacovigilance.  A  statement  signed  by 
pharmacovigilance, indicating that the applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible for 
pharmacovigilance  and  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse  reaction  occurring 
either in the Community or in a third country has been provided.  
the  qualified  person 
the  applicant  and 
The  CHMP  considers  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the  
legislative  requirements  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  applicant  has  the  services  of  a 
qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of 
any adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
3.5.2 Risk Management plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan which included risk minimisation activities.  
With regards to the RMP discussion, this report does refer to selected key issues discussed extensively 
during the procedure. In addition, The summary of the agreed RMP is provided later on in this report.  
3.5.2.1  Identified risks 
•  Inhibitor development 
The development of inhibitors is an event of special interest. Within study 310, two clinically silent, 
low-titre, transient inhibitors were observed in 94 patients with a median exposure of 76 exposure days 
(ED, range 1-92), corresponding to 2.2% of the 89 patients with at least 50 ED. In a supporting study 
of  ReFacto  AF  (study  306),  1  de  novo  and  2  recurrent  inhibitors  (all  low-titre,  central  laboratory 
determination)  were  observed  in  110 patients;  median  exposure  of  58  ED  (range  5-140)  and  98 
patients had at least 50 ED to ReFacto AF.  Ninety-eight (98) of the original 110 patients continued 
treatment in a second supportive study (study 307) and had subsequent extended exposure to ReFacto 
AF with a median of 169 additional ED (range 9-425).  One additional low titre de novo inhibitor was 
observed.  The frequency of inhibitors observed in these studies is within the expected range. 
As  with  all  coagulation  Factor  VIII  products,  patients  should  be  monitored  for  the  development  of 
inhibitors that should be titrated in Bethesda Units (BU) using appropriate biological testing. The risk 
of  developing  inhibitors  is  correlated  to  the  exposure  to  anti-hemophilic  Factor  VIII,  this  risk  being 
highest within the first 20 exposure days. Inhibitors are common in previously untreated patients and 
have been observed in previously treated patients on Factor VIII products. 
•  Less than expected therapeutic effect (LETE) 
The  incidence  rate  of  LETE  during  prophylaxis  in  study  310  was  0.4%  (25  episodes/6347  routine 
prophylactic infusions). There were 13 (out of 94) patients who were considered to have 25 episodes 
of LETE for prophylaxis. The events resolved, were not serious and not fatal. The incidence of LETE 
42/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the on-demand setting was 0.5% (1 event of LETE/187 bleeding episodes treated with on-demand 
infusions  across  patients).  The  event  resolved,  was  not  serious  and  not  fatal.  The  incidence  rate  of 
LETE  for  the  on  demand  indication  was  1.86  incident  cases  per  100  patient  years  and  for  the 
prophylaxis indication this was 26.15 incident cases per 100 patient years (95% CI: 13.92-44.71).  
For  study  310,  the  potency  of  the  investigational  product  was  assigned  on  the  basis  of  a  reference 
standard  calibrated  against  the  7th  IS  by  a one-stage  assay.  One  IU  of  this  investigational  product  is 
approximately equivalent to 1.38 IU of the ReFacto AF product (chromogenic assay calibrated). Since 
this difference in expression of potency could have affected the observed incidence of LETE, CHMP 
requested that the SmPC retains the qualitative wording on LETE from the authorised ReFacto SmPC 
until it has further data from post-authorisation studies with ReFacto itself. 
•  Allergic type hypersensitivity reactions 
Two local reactions were reported (injection site inflammation and injection site reaction). Both were 
considered  not  serious,  not  fatal  and  not  related  to  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  by  the  investigator. 
Upon review by the MAH, both were classified as adverse reactions to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). One 
resolved  without  treatment.  The  other  persisted  with  no  treatment.  The  incidence  proportion  2.13%. 
Patients  with  past  hypersensitivity  to  the  active  substance  or  any  of  the  excipients  or  patients  with 
known  allergic  reactions  to  hamster  proteins  are  at  increased  risk  for  allergic  type  hypersensitivity 
reactions.  
Hypersensitivity or allergic reactions are included in section 4.8 and a statement is included in section 
4.4 of the SPC on how to handle in case hypersensitivity reactions occur. Moroctocog alfa is contra-
indicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients. 
3.5.2.2 Potential risks 
• 
Potential for Medication Error/Product Confusion between ReFacto and 
ReFacto AF-CC 
The  MAH  was  requested  to  modify  its  initial  proposal  to  keep  the  tradename  ReFacto,  in  order  to 
obtain  reliable  pharmacovigilance  data.    Furthermore,  the  CHMP  considered  it  misleading  to 
healthcare  professionals  and  patients  to  keep  the  same  name  with  such  major  changes  to  the 
manufacturing  process  and  strongly  recommended  differentiation  by  name.  Consequently,  the  MAH 
renamed the product ReFacto AF at the same time as the product manufactured by the revised process 
is introduced. The MAH  was requested to adequately address how Refacto  and ReFacto  AF will be 
differentiated on the market.  
Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) is intended to replace ReFacto in all global markets. The MAH recognizes 
that  one  of  the  inherent  challenges  that  exists  when  introducing  an  updated  version  of  a  currently 
marketed product is the potential for product confusion during the period of time when both products 
are  circulating  for  use.  The  drug  administration  kit  and  the  dosage  formula  will  not  vary  from 
ReFacto, and as such, the MAH does not anticipate any increase in medication or dosage errors with 
the introduction of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). Moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU will be 
clearly  differentiated  from  ReFacto  by  the  use  of  a  modified  trade  name  for  moroctocog  alfa 
(AF-CC).  As  well,  vial  dimensions  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  will  differ  from  those  of  current 
ReFacto, and the MAH logo is intended for the seal of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). These features will 
further differentiate the appearance of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) from current ReFacto. 
The packaging for ReFacto AF has been differentiated from that of ReFacto in the following ways (see 
Table 14-1 below). 
43/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  was  requested  to  modify  its  inital  proposal  in  order  to  obtain  reliable  pharmacovigilance 
data  and  adequately  address  how  Refacto  and  ReFacto  AF-CC  will  be  differentiated  on  the  market. 
Furthermore,  the  CHMP  considered  misleading  to  health  care  professionals  and  patients  to  keep  the 
same  name  with  such  major  changes  to  the  manufacturing  process  and  strongly  recommended 
differentiation by name. 
In summary, the Company proposes to distinguish moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) from current ReFacto in 
several ways. These are described below. 
•  By  name:  Moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  intended  for  the  EU  market,  which  will  utilize  a  potency 
standard that has been calibrated against the WHO 7th IS using the CS assay, will be differentiated 
from current ReFacto by trade name and will be called ReFacto AF.  
•  By vial: The vials that will be used with moroctocog alfa(AF-CC) will be significantly smaller and 
lighter than current ReFacto vials.  
•  By vial label: the new vial labels will also be different. While both old and new labels contain two 
peel-off labels, the current label is a single layer around the vial, whereas the new label will be a 
leaflet label. The new leaflet label will require patients to unfold the leaflet in order to access the 
peel-off portion. 
•  By pack: it is proposed to alter the physical appearance of the carton to reflect a new color scheme 
and logo.  Further information will be shared with the regulators when plans are further defined 
•  By  product  security 
features:  The 
incorporation  of  anti-counterfeiting  measures  and 
tamper-evident  seals  will  enhance  product  security  as  well  as  provide  additional  methods  of 
differentiation.    The  carton  dust  flaps  will  have  “The  MAH”  embossed  on  them  and  the  outer 
cartons  will  have  a  tamper  evident  seal  that  will  need  to  be  broken  by  the  patients  in  order  to 
access the kit. These features are not included in the current ReFacto kit. 
The  MAH  will  routinely  solicit  the  lot  numbers  of  product  used  in  association  with  any 
immunogenicity  event.  This  together  with  the  change  in  invented  name  will  permit  the  MAH  to 
allocate any reports of immunogenicity to the correct product. An event-specific questionnaire is sent 
44/70 
 
 
 
 
with  the  follow-up  requests  for  all  spontaneous  medically  confirmed  reports  of  events  of  special 
interest (inhibitor development and less than expected therapeutic effect). Lot number as well as vial 
strength information is requested. 
A specific questionnaire will also be developed for the follow up of all hypersensitivity reactions to 
FVIII. 
The  MAH  has  revised  the  follow-up  questionnaires  for  both  inhibitors  and  less  than  expected 
therapeutic effect to capture the respective product trade name and to include a prominent space for 
affixing peel-off labels from the product pack that include the batch number.  Furthermore, the product 
labeling (including both the Summary of Product Characteristics and the Patient Information Leaflet) 
will highlight the availability and potential use of these peel-off labels, as will educational materials 
provided to both patients and prescribers. 
As regards the actual information to go into the peel-off label (product name, nominal dosage strength, 
lot number and expiry date) these were all acceptable to the CHMP. 
•  Potential risks resulting from missing information  
Risk Induced by the Use of Different Assays for Patient Monitoring 
When  monitoring  patients'  factor VIII  activity  levels  during  treatment  with  ReFacto  AF,  use  of  the 
European  Pharmacopoeial  chromogenic  substrate  assay  is  strongly  recommended.  Nevertheless,  the 
monitoring  of  Factor  VIII  activity  (FVIII:C)  in  patients  using  FVIII  replacement  therapy  is  often 
performed using an OS clotting assay referenced to a plasma standard in the clinical laboratory. 
The  potency  of  ReFacto  is  assigned  relative  to  the  World  Health  Organization  6th  International 
Standard  for  Blood  Coagulation  Factor  VIII:C  Concentrate  (WHO  6th  IS)  using  a  chromogenic 
substrate (CS) assay. The FVIII:C values associated with ReFacto are typically lower as determined 
using  the  OS  assay  compared  to  values  determined  using  the  CS  assay.  As  an  aid  to  clinical 
laboratories using the OS assay to measure FVIII:C in plasma samples containing ReFacto, The MAH 
has made available a product specific laboratory standard, the ReFacto Laboratory Standard (RLS). 
For moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU, the potency is assigned using a working potency 
standard calibrated against the WHO 7th IS using the CS assay.  The MAH intends to make available a 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) product specific standard for use in clinical laboratories that utilize the OS 
clotting assay to monitor FVIII:C levels of patients treated with moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended 
for  the  EU.  The  use  of  this  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  specific  standard,  when  performing  clinical 
monitoring  by  the  OS  clotting  assay,  will  provide  a means  of  aligning  one-stage  clinical  laboratory 
FVIII activity assays with the product label. The RLS currently available for ReFacto is not intended 
for use with moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). 
A consequence of the change to the WHO 7th IS for assignment of product potency for moroctocog 
alfa  (AF-CC)  is  that  FVIII:C  values  for  samples  containing  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  obtained 
relative to the RLS will typically be greater than that expected based on the product label. Should the 
FVIII:C  value  for  a  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)-containing  sample  be  obtained  versus  the  RLS  and 
used  to  adjust  patient  dosing,  the  potential  for  administering  a  lower  dose  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-
CC) exists.  
CHMP questioned the practicality of using two laboratory standards during the transition period from 
ReFacto  to  ReFacto  AF.  The  MAH  agreed  with  the  CHMP  that  supporting  two  standards  is  not 
practical. The MAH does not plan to maintain 2 laboratory standards during the transition period from 
ReFacto to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC).  
An updated ReFacto AF (moroctocog alfa [AF-CC] intended for the EU) laboratory standard will be 
made  available  at  commercialization  of  ReFacto  AF.  The  MAH  will  stop  supplying  the  current 
45/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ReFacto  Laboratory  Standard  at  the  time  that  ReFacto  AF  becomes  commercially  available.  Upon 
receipt  of  the  new  laboratory  standard  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  intended  for  the  EU,  clinical 
laboratories  will  be  instructed,  via  letters  specifically  aimed  at  laboratory  scientists,  to  discard  any 
remaining quantities of the ReFacto Laboratory Standard in order to assure that the ReFacto laboratory 
standard  is  not  erroneously  used  during  clinical  monitoring  of  ReFacto  AF  treatment.  This  plan  for 
introduction  of  the  ReFacto  AF  laboratory  standard  is  aligned  with  the  plan  that  was  used  for  the 
successful introduction of a new ReFacto laboratory standard at the time that the potency of ReFacto 
was recalibrated in 2003. Educational materials addressing introduction of the new laboratory standard 
for ReFacto AF (moroctocog alfa [AF-CC] intended for the EU) are to be provided. 
The  applicant  have  provided  reassurance  that  only  one  laboratory  standard  will  be  available  at  any 
time. Moreover, as described in the applicant’s proposal for updated RMP an Educational Programme 
will provide laboratories with appropriate information in relation to introduction of ReFacto AF and 
the need for a new laboratory standard.  
When  a  clinician  wants  to  precisely  tailor  a  FVIII:C  level,  the  laboratory  details  regarding  the 
determination  of  FVIII:C  levels  should  be  considered.  Although  a  laboratory  standard  will  be 
available  to  clinical  laboratories,  the  available  clinical  data  and  practical  experiences  with  ReFacto 
suggest that either assay (OS and CS) may be used to monitor patient therapy. The use of a product-
specific  laboratory  standard  for  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  is  not  implied  as  a  requirement  for  the 
administration or evaluation of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC).   
Launch of ReFacto AF in EU Member States 
The MAH remains fully committed to achieving a transition phase that is as short as possible. 
The MAH plans to make moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) commercially available 
simultaneously across all markets in the EU, where possible. However, due to pricing 
and reimbursement negotiations that may need to occur in some EU Member States, 
it may not be feasible to launch simultaneously in every EU Member State. In order 
to update the CHMP on the progress of the commercialization of ReFacto AF 
throughout the EU, the MAH commits to undertake a follow-up measure (FUM) that 
will update the CHMP on the commercialization status of ReFacto AF and the 
inventory status of ReFacto to demonstrate that inventory of ReFacto is being 
depleted through their distribution centres. The MAH believes this will demonstrate 
its efforts to ensure that ReFacto AF is introduced as quickly as possible throughout 
the EU Risk Induced by the Existence of Product of Different Potencies Across 
Regions 
For  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  intended  for  other  global  markets,  the  potency  is  assigned  using  a 
working  standard  calibrated  against  the  WHO  7th  IS  using  the  OS  assay.  This  results  in  different 
protein per IU content for the respective moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) products (greater protein content 
per  IU  in  moroctocog  alfa  [AF-CC]  intended  for  other  global  markets).  Global  differentiation  of 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  by  region-specific  potency  from  ReFacto  will  occur  with  the  use  of  a 
new/modified trade name (from ReFacto to ReFacto AF in the EU from ReFacto to Xyntha in the US 
and  Canada)  unique  to  the  respective  assigned  potency  of  the  product.  Patient  and  clinician 
educational efforts will clearly communicate the differences in product potencies, the respective trade 
names,  and  the  respective  considerations  for  routine  measurement  of  FVIII:C  levels  in  the  clinical 
laboratory. 
The  ReFacto  AF  product,  with  calibration  of  the  working  potency  standard  by  the  chromogenic 
substrate  assay,  is  intended  for  the  EU  market  and  for  regions  in  close  geographic  proximity.  The 
Xyntha  product,  with  calibration  of  the  working  potency  standard  by  the  one-stage  assay  versus  the 
WHO 7th IS, is approved and will be marketed in the US and Canada.  
Due to the difference in methods used to assign product potency of XYNTHA and ReFacto AF, 1 IU 
of  the  XYNTHA  product  (one-stage  assay  calibrated)  is  approximately  equivalent  to  1.38  IU  of  the 
ReFacto AF product (chromogenic assay calibrated). 
46/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The potential risk is for patients coming from the US using local supply in Europe, because the vials 
labeled  with  the  same  IU  will  contain  less  Factor  VIII  activity,  and  patients  could  potentially  be 
underdosed. The CHMP strongly highlighted that the main point for the EU and non-EU products, is 
not only to have both products clearly differentiable in appearance but that their difference in potency 
is  made  clear  to  the  prescriber  and  the  patient  (educational  programme  &  product  information, 
SPC/PL). 
Patients  should  be  encouraged  by  their  health  care  providers  to  appropriately  plan  for  product  use 
when 
traveling  between  regions  where  products  with  differing  potencies  may  exist.  The 
communication of this message to health care providers and patients will be facilitated by the addition 
of text in the product information regarding planning for product supply prior to travel. The product 
information also indicates what the difference is between regions and gives practical information on 
what to do if patients need to use moroctocog AF-CC in different regions. 
3.5.2.3 Evaluation of the need for risk minimisation measures 
3.5.2.3.1 Switch and transition period  
The current database only includes 25 patients who have switched from ReFacto to ReFacto AF and, 
therefore,  the  MAH  has  commited  to  undertake  a  post-authorisation  study  to  investigate  this  aspect 
further. 
The  MAH  is  proposing  a  modified  transition  plan  aimed  at  reducing  the  period  of  time  where  both 
ReFacto  and  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  will  be  available  within  the  EU  at  the  same  time.  As  the 
MAH’s  primary  concern  is  to  maintain  continuity  of  supply  to  all  of  their  patients,  the  MAH  will 
convert drug substance manufacturing operations from ReFacto to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) after EC 
decision. This will ensure that all patients continue to have sufficient supply of ReFacto throughout the 
transition of manufacturing and distribution to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). 
The MAH proposes to make the product commercially available simultaneously across all EU markets 
at a point in time where adequate supplies of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) have been produced to support 
an EU launch and when the MAH can assure that the existing inventory of ReFacto that will need to 
be returned from the market can be minimized. The MAH commits to undertake a launch of ReFacto 
AF in all EU/EEA countries where ReFacto is currently marketed by end June 2009 where possible 
whilst also in compliance with national requirements for Pricing and Reimbursement. 
Once the product is commercially available, the MAH intends to execute an immediate transition from 
ReFacto  to  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  across  the  EU.  That  is,  once  the  MAH  begins  distribution  of 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC), the MAH will cease to distribute all dosage strengths of ReFacto and only 
distribute moroctocog alfa (AF-CC).   
As  there  is  comparability  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  to  ReFacto,  the  company  recommends  that 
patients may exhaust their inventory of ReFacto before converting to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). If any 
existing ReFacto inventory remains in the market on 31 Dec 2009, the MAH proposes to institute an 
exchange  programme.  While  the  MAH  would  not  expect  much,  if  any,  ReFacto  to  remain  in  the 
market  by  this  time,  the  MAH  will  request  patients,  hospitals,  and  distributors  to  exchange  any 
remaining ReFacto packs for moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) packs as of 01 Jan 2010. Finally, in an effort 
to  minimize  the  in-market  transition  from  ReFacto  to  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  as  well  as  to 
minimize  any  existing  ReFacto  inventory  remaining  in  the  market  on  31  Dec  2009,  the  MAH  will 
direct targeted education and communication at all appropriate stakeholders prior to the product being 
commercially available as follows: 
Distributors 
Three  months  prior  to  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  introduction,  communications  will  be  delivered  to 
distributors to encourage them to reduce their inventory levels of current ReFacto in order to plan for 
the launch of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC). 
47/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Physicians 
Three  months  prior  to  the  introduction  in  the  EU,  physicians  in  each  market  will  receive 
communications  informing  them  of  the  upcoming  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  launch.  At  that  time, 
physicians  will  be  encouraged  to  transition  current  patients  over  to  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  as 
quickly as possible. 
Patient Advocacy Groups 
Three months prior to the introduction in the EU, patient advocacy groups in each market will receive 
communications  informing  them  of  the  upcoming  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  launch.  They  will  be 
encouraged to communicate the following information to patients: 
•  ReFacto  will  no  longer  continue  to  be  commercially  available  to  patients  once  moroctocog  alfa 
(AF-CC) has been launched. 
•  Patients should use up all packs of original ReFacto before starting to use moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) and not switch back to ReFacto. 
Other 
The MAH will provide an updated version of the moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) laboratory standard, free 
of charge to clinical laboratories using the current RLS, approximately 1 month prior to the release of 
the new moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) batches. Clinical laboratories will be instructed to discard the RLS 
in order to assure that it is not erroneously used during clinical monitoring of moroctocog alfa (AF-
CC) treatment. 
For  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  intended  for  other  global  markets,  the  potency  is  assigned  using  a 
working  standard  calibrated  against  the  WHO  7th  IS  using  the  OS  assay  This  results  in  different 
protein per IU content for the respective moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) products (greater protein content 
per  IU  in  moroctocog  alfa  [AF-CC]  intended  for  other  global  markets).  Global  differentiation  of 
moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  intended  for  the  EU,  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  intended  for  other  global 
markets and ReFacto will occur by use of new/modified trade names unique to the assigned potency of 
the respective moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) product. Patient and clinician educational efforts will clearly 
communicate  the  differences  in  product  potencies,  the  respective  trade  names,  and  the  appropriate 
laboratory standard for routine measurement of FVIII:C levels in the clinical laboratory. 
Patients  should  be  encouraged  by  their  health  care  providers  to  appropriately  plan  for  product  use 
when  travelling  between  regions  where  products  with  differing  potencies  may  exist.  The 
communication of this message to health care providers and patients will be facilitated by the addition 
of text in the product information regarding planning for product supply prior to travel. The product 
information also indicates what the difference is between regions and gives practical information on 
what to do if patients need to use moroctocog AF-CC in different regions. 
3.5.2.3.2 Educational materials 
The educational material was discussed during the procedure with the MAH. The CHMP reminded the 
MAH that the aim of the information should be at reducing the risk. As a result, the agreed educational 
material is presented in Section IV.1 of this report.  
3.5.3 Summary of the Risk management plan  
The table below describes the agreed RMP with the MAH during the procedure.  
Table 0-15: Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Safety 
Concern 
Identified 
Risks 
48/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Safety 
Concern 
Identified 
Risks 
Inhibitor 
Formation 
Table 0-15: Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Routine Activity: SPC Section 4.2 Posology and 
Administration: Patients using factor VIII 
replacement therapy are to be monitored for the 
development of factor VIII inhibitors.  If 
expected factor VIII activity plasma levels are 
not attained, or if bleeding is not controlled with 
an appropriate dose, an assay should be 
performed to determine if factor VIII inhibitors 
are present. 
SPC Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions: The formation of neutralising 
antibodies (inhibitors) to factor VIII is a known 
complication in the management of individuals 
with haemophilia A.  These inhibitors are usually 
IgG immunoglobulins directed against the factor 
VIII procoagulant activity, which are quantified 
in Bethesda Units (BU) per ml of plasma using 
the Nijmegen modification of the Bethesda 
assay.. The risk of developing inhibitors is 
correlated to the exposure to factor VIII, this risk 
being highest within the first 20 exposure days.  
Inhibitors have been observed in previously 
treated patients receiving factor VIII products, 
including ReFacto AF.  Cases of recurrence of 
inhibitors (low titre) have been observed after 
switching from one recombinant factor VIII 
product to another in previously treated patients 
with more than 100 exposure days who have a 
history of inhibitor development. Patients treated 
with recombinant coagulation factor VIII should 
be carefully monitored for the development of 
inhibitors by appropriate clinical observations 
and laboratory tests. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
Event with Special Circumstances 
(Inhibitor Development) Questionnaire 
Study 3082B2-4432 (Switch Study) – 
A Postauthorization Safety 
Surveillance Study of Patients 
Switching to ReFacto AF from 
ReFacto or other factor VIII Products 
in Usual Care Settings  
Study 3082B2-4433 (Study of ReFacto 
AF PK plus S & E<12 years of age) – 
A Non-Randomized, Open Label 
Study to Evaluate the Safety, Efficacy, 
and Pharmacokinetics (PK) of ReFacto 
AF in Previously Treated Children 
Less than 12 Twelve Years of Age 
with Severe Hemophilia A 
(FVIII:C<1%). 
Study 3082B2-4434 (ReFacto AF) – A 
Postauthorization Study of the Safety 
and Efficacy of ReFacto AF in 
Previously Untreated Patients in Usual 
Care Settings.  
Study number to be assigned (ReFacto 
AF PUP registry) - A 
Postauthorization Safety Surveillance 
Registry of ReFacto AF in Previously 
Untreated Patients (PUPs) in Usual 
Care Settings  
Study 3082B2-4420, 
Pharmacovigilance evaluation of 
ReFacto AF in Germany and Austria, 
which will specifically evaluate 
patients who switch from ReFacto to 
ReFacto AF, will follow all switches 
during the transition period. 
49/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Concern 
Inhibitor 
Formation 
(Cont’d) 
Inhibitor 
Formation 
(Cont’d) 
Table 6-1: Summary of the Risk Management Plan (Cont'd) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Study 3315 (Pediatric Study, Xyntha, 
US/Canada) – An Open-Label Study to 
Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Xyntha 
in Children <6 Years of Age in Usual Care 
Settings.  (Proposed study to enroll 
minimally treated children or PUPs who 
have less than 50 EDs to FVIII products).  
All subjects will receive treatment with 
Xyntha formulation of moroctocog alfa [AF-
CC]). 
Study 313 (Pediatric Study, Xyntha) – An 
Open-Label Study to Evaluate Prophylaxis 
Treatment, and to Characterize the Efficacy, 
Safety, and Pharmacokinetics of Xyntha in 
Children 
With Haemophilia A (ongoing study 
enrolling previously treated patients less than 
6 years of age, as they convert to Xyntha 
from ReFacto or as they convert to Xyntha 
from other products.)  
Study 3082B2-4418 (Xyntha only, 
US/Canada) - Post-authorization safety 
surveillance study of moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) in usual care settings. 
SPC Section 4.8 Undesirable Effects: The 
occurrence of neutralising antibodies (inhibitors) 
to factor VIII is well known in the treatment of 
patients with haemophilia A.  If such inhibitors 
occur, the condition may manifest itself as an 
insufficient clinical response.  In such cases, it is 
recommended that a specialised haemophilia 
centre be contacted. 
In a clinical study with ReFacto AF in 
previously treated patients, the incidence of 
factor VIII inhibitors was the primary safety 
endpoint.  Two clinically silent, low-titre, 
transient inhibitors were observed in 94 patients 
with a median exposure of 76 exposure days 
(ED, range 1-92), corresponding to 2.2% of the 
89 patients with at least 50 ED. In a supporting 
study of ReFacto AF, 1 de novo and 2 recurrent 
inhibitors (all low-titre, central laboratory 
determination) were observed in 110 patients; 
median exposure of 58 ED (range 5-140) and 98 
patients had at least 50 ED to ReFacto AF.  
Ninety eight (98) of the original 110 patients 
continued treatment in a second supportive study 
and had subsequent extended exposure to 
ReFacto AF with a median of 169 additional ED 
(range 9-425).  One (1) additional low titrede 
novo inhibitor was observed.  The frequency of 
inhibitors observed in these studies is within the 
expected range. 
In a clinical study with ReFacto in PTPs, 
1 inhibitor was observed in 113 patients. 
Also, there have been spontaneous post-
marketing reports of high-titre inhibitors 
involving previously treated patients. 
There are no clinical data on previously 
untreated patients (PUPs) with ReFacto AF.  In 
a clinical trial, 32 out of 101 (32%) PUPs  
treated with ReFacto developed inhibitors: 16 
out of 101 (16%) with a titre >5 BU and 16 out 
of 101 (16%) with a titre ≤5 BU.  The median 
number of exposure days up to inhibitor 
development in these patients was 12 (range 3-
49).  Of the 16 patients with high titres, 15 
received immune tolerance (IT) treatment. Of 
the 16 patients with low titres, IT treatment was 
started in 10. IT had an efficacy of 73% for 
patients with high titres and 90% for those with 
low titres.  For all 101 treated PUPs, regardless 
of inhibitor development, the median number of 
exposure days is 197 (range 1-1299). 
Less Than 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
SPC Section 4.4 Special Warning and 
50/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Concern 
Expected 
Therapeutic 
Effect 
(LETE) 
Allergic 
Type 
Hypersensiti
vity 
Reactions 
Table 6-1: Summary of the Risk Management Plan (Cont'd) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Event with Special Circumstances (LETE) 
Questionnaire 
Study 3082B2-4432 (ReFacto AF switch 
study) 
Study 3082B2-4433 (Study of ReFacto AF 
PK plus S & E <12 years of Age)  
Study 3082B2-4434 (ReFacto AF PUP 
study) 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Event with Special Circumstances 
(hypersensitivity reactions) Questionnaire 
Study 3082B2-4432 (ReFacto AF switch 
study) 
Study 3082B2-4433 (Study of ReFacto AF 
PK plus S & E <12 years of Age)  
Study 3082B2-4434 (ReFacto AF PUP 
Study)  
Study 3315 (Pediatric Study-US)  
Study 313  
Study 3082B2-4418  
Precautions for Use: Reports of lack of effect, 
mainly in prophylaxis patients, have been 
received in the clinical trials and in the post-
marketing setting for ReFacto. The reported lack 
of effect with ReFacto has been described as 
bleeding into target joints, bleeding into new 
joints or a subjective feeling by the patient of 
new onset bleeding. When prescribing ReFacto 
AF it is important to individually titrate and 
monitor each patient's factor level in order to 
ensure an adequate therapeutic response. 
SPC Section 4.3 Contraindications: 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to 
any of the excipients.  Known allergic reaction 
to hamster proteins. 
SPC Section 4.4 Special Warnings and Special 
Precautions for Use: As with any intravenous 
protein product, allergic type hypersensitivity 
reactions are possible.  The product contains 
traces of hamster proteins.  Patients should be 
informed of the early signs of hypersensitivity 
reactions (including hives, generalised urticaria, 
tightness of the chest, wheezing, hypotension) 
and anaphylaxis.  If allergic or anaphylactic 
reactions occur, administration of ReFacto AF is 
to be discontinued immediately, and an 
appropriate treatment must be initiated.  In case 
of shock, the current medical standards for 
treatment of shock are to be observed.  Patients 
are to be advised to discontinue use of the 
product and contact their physician or seek 
immediate emergency care, depending on the 
type and severity of the reaction, if any of these 
symptoms occur. 
SPC Section 4.8 Undesirable Effects: 
Hypersensitivity or allergic reactions (which 
may include angioedema, burning and stinging 
at the infusion site, chills, flushing, generalised 
urticaria, headaches, hives, hypotension, 
lethargy, nausea, restlessness, tachycardia, 
tightness of the chest, tingling, vomiting, 
wheezing) have been observed infrequently 
ReFacto, and may in some cases progress to 
severe anaphylaxis (including shock). 
If any reaction takes place that is thought to be 
related to the administration of ReFacto AF the 
rate of infusion is to be decreased or the infusion 
stopped, as dictated by the response of the 
patient. 
51/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6-1: Summary of the Risk Management Plan (Cont'd) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Safety 
Concern 
Potential 
Risks 
Potential for 
Medication 
Error/Produc
t Confusion 
Risk of 
confusing 
ReFacto 
with 
moroctocog 
alfa AF-CC  
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
Follow-up questionnaires to include space 
for affixing 2 peel off labels that will contain 
batch/lot number information.   
SPC Section 2 Qualitative and Quantitative 
Composition: The invented name has been 
changed to ReFacto AF. 
SPC Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use: In the interest of patient 
safety, it is recommended that every time 
ReFacto AF is administered, the name on the 
carton and batch number of the product are 
recorded.  Patients can affix one of the peel-off 
labels found on the vial to document the batch 
number in their diary or for reporting any side 
effects. 
Instructions on record keeping are included in 
the Patient Information Leaflet.  A second 
peel-off label is provided to help facilitate this 
process. 
Differentiation in packaging for moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC) versus ReFacto. 
Educational Programme regarding the transition 
plan of ReFacto to moroctocog alfa (AF-CC).  
Routine Activity: SPC Section 4.2 Posology: 
Informs that the chromogenic assay yields 
results which are higher than those observed 
with use of the one-stage clotting assay.  
Typically, one-stage clotting assay results are 
20-50% lower than the chromogenic substrate 
assay results.  The ReFacto AF laboratory 
standard can be used to correct for this 
discrepancy. 
Potential Risks (Cont’d) 
Risk induced 
by the use of 
different 
assays for pt. 
monitoring 
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis of ADRs related to the use 
of different assays in PSUR 
52/70 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6-1: Summary of the Risk Management Plan (Cont'd) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Safety 
Concern 
Educational Programme: 
Prior to the launch of moroctocog alfa (AFCC), 
Wyeth will provide a new lab standard for 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) and will provide 
specific information on the differences in the 
ReFacto Laboratory Standard (RLS) and the 
moroctocog alfa (Af-CC) laboratory standard 
and instructions for using the appropriate 
standard with the appropriate assay.  
Wyeth will stop supplying the current RLS at 
the time moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) becomes 
commercially available.  Upon receipt of the 
new laboratory standard for moroctocog alfa 
(AF-CC), clinical laboratories will be instructed 
to discard any remaining quantities of the 
ReFacto laboratory standard to assure that the 
ReFacto laboratory standard is not erroneously 
used during clinical monitoring of moroctocog 
alfa (AF-CC) treatment. 
Wyeth will have an exchange policy if at the end 
of the transition period from ReFacto to 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the 
EU/EEA (31 December 2009) there is ReFacto 
product to be returned. 
53/70 
 
 
 
 
Table 6-1: Summary of the Risk Management Plan (Cont'd) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
Safety 
Concern 
Potential Risks (Cont’d) 
Risk induced 
by the 
existence of 
product of 
different 
potencies 
across 
regions 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
SPC Section 2. Qualitative and Quantitative 
Composition: 
Describes how the potency is determined.  
SPC Section 4.2 Posology and Method of 
Administration: 
The labelled potency of ReFacto AF is based on 
the European Pharmacopoeial chromogenic 
substrate assay, in which the manufacturing 
potency standard has been calibrated to the 
WHO International Standard using the 
chromogenic substrate assay.  
Another moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) product 
approved for use outside Europe has a different 
potency assigned using a manufacturing potency 
standard that has been calibrated to the WHO 
International Standard using a one-stage clotting 
assay; this product is identified by the tradename 
XYNTHA. Due to the difference in methods 
used to assign product potency of XYNTHA and 
ReFacto AF, 1 IU of the XYNTHA product (one 
stage assay calibrated) is approximately 
equivalent to 1.38 IU of the ReFacto AF product 
(chromogenic assay calibrated). If a patient 
normally treated with XYNTHA is prescribed 
ReFacto AF, the treating physician may consider 
adjustment of dosing recommendations based on 
factor VIII recovery values. 
Based on their current regimen, individuals with 
hemophilia A should be advised to bring an 
adequate supply of factor VIII product for 
anticipated treatment when traveling.  Patients 
should be advised to consult with their 
healthcare provider prior to travel. 
Patient Information Leaflet: 
Consult with your healthcare provider before 
you travel.  You should bring enough of your 
factor VIII product for anticipated treatment 
when traveling. 
Educational programmeme 
54/70 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Concern 
Important 
Missing 
Information 
Pediatric 
Patients 
(including 
children 
under 6 
years of age) 
Use in 
Patients 
Switching 
from 
ReFacto to 
ReFacto AF 
Use in 
Previously 
Untreated 
Patients 
(PUPs) 
Important 
Missing 
Information 
(Cont’d) 
Use in 
Patients with 
History of 
Inhibitors 
Table 6-1: Summary of the Risk Management Plan (Cont'd) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
None, (the SPC reflects the experience 
previously acquired with  ReFacto) 
Study 3082B2-4433 (Study of ReFacto AF 
PK plus S & E <12 years of Age)  
Study 3082B2-4434 (ReFacto AF PUP 
Study) 
Study number to be assigned (ReFacto AF 
PUP registry)   
Study 3315 (Pediatric Study-US)  
Study 313 
Study 3082B2-4432 
Study 3082B2-4433 
Study 3082B2-4420 
- 
Study 3082B2-4434  
Study number to be assigned (ReFacto AF 
PUP registry) 
Study 3315 (Pediatric Study) 
SPC Section 4.8 Undesirable Effects 
There are no clinical data on previously 
untreated patients (PUPs) with ReFacto AF.)  
However, clinical trials are planned in 
previously untreated patients (PUPs) with 
ReFacto AF 
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
Event with Special Circumstances (Inhibitor 
Development) Questionnaire  
SPC Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions: Cases of recurrence of inhibitors 
(low titre) have been observed after switching 
from one recombinant factor VIII product to 
another in previously treated patients with more 
than 100 exposure days who have a history of 
inhibitor development. Patients treated with 
recombinant coagulation factor VIII should be 
carefully monitored for the development of 
inhibitors by appropriate clinical observations 
and laboratory tests 
55/70 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Table 6-1: Summary of the Risk Management Plan (Cont'd) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
- 
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
SPC Section 4.2 Posology and Method of 
Administration informs that dose adjustment for 
renal and hepatic impaired patients has not been 
studied. 
SPC Section 4.6 Pregnancy and lactation; warns 
that animal reproductive studies have not been 
performed on factor VIII  
Routine Pharmacovigilance including 
specific analysis in PSUR 
- 
Safety 
Concern 
Use in 
patients 
receiving 
anti-fibrinol
ytic agents, 
medications 
known to 
influence 
platelet 
function (i.e. 
aspirin or 
certain 
NSAIDs) 
and 
concomitant 
therapy with 
immunosupp
ressive drugs 
Important 
Missing 
Information 
(Cont’d) 
Patients with 
organ system 
impairment 
Lactating 
and pregnant 
women 
Patients with 
genetic 
polymorphis
ms 
56/70 
 
 
  
 
 
 
3.6 Post authorisation safety studies 
A  summary  of  studies  expected  to  be  ongoing  or  planned  for  initiation  subsequent  to  approval  of 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) is provided in Table below. 
57/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Study  3082B2-4432    “A Post-authorisation  Safety  Surveillance  Study  of  Patients  Switching 
to ReFacto AF from ReFacto or other Factor VIII Products in Usual Care Settings” 
The MAH has developed a protocol, 3082B2-4432 (Study 4432) entitled “A Post-authorisation Safety 
Surveillance Study of Patients Switching to ReFacto AF from ReFacto or other Factor VIII Products 
in Usual Care Settings”, to be conducted in Europe, exclusively with ReFacto AF (potency assignment 
aligned to the chromogenic substrate (CS) assay).  This study reflects the incorporation of enhanced 
objectives relative to those of Study 4418 in consideration of CHMP requests to evaluate both ReFacto 
and  non-ReFacto  patients  who  switch  to  ReFacto  AF  with  mandatory  inhibitor  testing  over  an 
extended observation period. 
The original postmarketing study, Study 4418, will proceed in the US and Canada, exclusively using 
Xyntha as planned. 
Key protocol design features that have been incorporated into Study 4432 to meet the CHMP requests 
and concerns raised include the following:   
This study will include a primary cohort of at least 150 patients switching from ReFacto to ReFacto 
AF.  In  addition,  a  second  cohort  of  150  patients  switching  to  ReFacto  AF  from  products  other  than 
ReFacto  will  be  enrolled.  All  300  patients  will  be  followed  with  mandatory  inhibitor  and  recovery 
tests,  at  pre-defined  visits,  over  at  least  100  EDs.  Data  related  to  the  occurrence  of  LETE  will  be 
obtained  for  patients  in  each  cohort.  The  primary  cohort  of  study  4432  (patients  switching  from 
ReFacto  to  ReFacto  AF)  replaces  study  4420  for  the  objective  of  evaluation  of  efficacy  and  safety 
(including  inhibitor  development,  recurrence  of  inhibitors  and  LETE)  in  patients  switching  from 
ReFacto to ReFacto AF. 
58/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At study entry, all patients will be PTPs (> 150 EDs), all with severe haemophilia A (<1%), and all at 
least  12  years  of  age.  All  patients  will  be  included  in  the  study  prior  to  starting  ReFacto  AF,  and 
patients  in  either  cohort  will  have  an  initial  baseline  recovery  test  with  their  prior  Factor  VIII 
replacement  therapy  and  will  then  be  followed  with  mandatory  inhibitor  surveillance  testing  and 
recovery assessments, as noted above, through at least 100 EDs. For all subjects, the interval between 
the protocol mandated inhibitor assessment at screening and initial exposure to ReFacto AF will be no 
greater  than  21  days.  As  well,  for  each  subject,  a  baseline  inhibitor  assessment  will  be  obtained 
immediately  prior  to  administration  of  the  initial  ReFacto  AF  dose.  Thus  documentation  of  subject 
inhibitor status at the time of initial ReFacto AF exposure will be assured. 
During  the  first  segment  of  the  study,  inhibitor  testing  will  occur  at  ED  1,  ED  10-15  and  ED  50.  
During the second segment of the study, inhibitor testing will occur every 6 months until at least 100 
ED  is  reached.  For  those  subjects  who  have  infrequent  use  of  ReFacto  AF,  6  month  interval 
assessments may actually precede ED 10-15 or ED 50. These patients may also continue on the study 
longer than 2 years to achieve the requisite 100 ED mandatory inhibitor surveillance testing. Central 
laboratory inhibitor testing will be performed using the Nijmegen modification of the Bethesda assay, 
and  Factor  VIII  activity  in  plasma  to  assess  recoveries  at  baseline  and  over  time  will  be  performed 
with  a  validated  CS  assay  in  the  central  laboratory.  Details  of  the  study  may  be  found  in  the  full 
protocol in the Risk Management Plan. 
Based on the expectation that the transition time from ReFacto to ReFacto AF will be relatively brief 
due  to  the  depletion  of  ReFacto  drug  product  from  the  EU  market,  the  protocol  design  must  be 
operationally  feasible  to  facilitate  rapid  patient  recruitment  of  reasonable  numbers  of  patients.  The 
design of Study 4432 has chosen to target a balanced enrollment number of ReFacto patients and non-
ReFacto patients into each of two cohorts to allow for analysis of data from within the same study in 
aggregate and by cohort subset. It is believed that accrual of 150 ReFacto patients from across many 
regions in the EU prior to their first dose of ReFacto AF would be at the limit of what is operationally 
feasible  in  the  short  timeframe  required.  This  is  based  on  recent  MAH  market  survey  data  that 
indicates  ReFacto  market  share  in  Europe  is  only  approximately  15%  of  patients  with  the  very  rare 
condition  of  haemophilia  A.  Thus,  The  MAH  is  able  to  commit  to  this  number  of  patients  for 
assessment  of  ReFacto  to  ReFacto  AF  switching  in  the  context  of  an  interventional  study  with 
mandatory  inhibitor  testing  throughout  the  extended  proposed  study  treatment  period  through  100 
EDs.   
Study population 
To  provide  for  balanced  enrollment  of  patient  numbers  in  the  two  cohorts  a  total  of  300  patients  is 
targeted for study enrollment.  The MAH believes the design of a study with balanced enrollment of 
150 patients in each of two cohorts (ReFacto and non-ReFacto prior use) is robust and justified. This 
study design is also consistent with the number of patients reported in a Belgian series by Peerlinck et 
al, [Factor VIII inhibitors in previously treated haemophilia A patients with a double virus-inactivated 
plasma  derived  factor  VIII  concentrate.  Thromb.  Haemost.  1997;  77  (1)  80-6],  which  described  the 
identification  of  an  inhibitor  safety  signal  in  Belgium  when  8  of  140  multi-transfused  patients  with 
severe hemophilia A developed inhibitors.   
The  Belgian  experience  clearly  describes  the  temporal  relationship  of  inhibitor  development  with 
respect to exposure days following use of the new Factor VIII product, all affected patients developed 
inhibitors shortly after changing their treatment (exposure day ranging from ED9 to ED 45) indicating 
that mandatory testing in Study 4432 through 100 EDs is robust and should be sufficient to detect any 
clinically  important  inhibitor  development  following  introduction  of  ReFacto  AF  into  the  EU 
marketplace.   
With regard to the age of patients eligible for enrollment into Study 4432 (PTPs with > 150ED, age at 
least  12  years),  the  MAH  considered  the  opportunity  to  include  PTP  children  as  young  as  age  6.  
Recent  MAH  market  survey  data  indicate  that  ReFacto  market  share  is  only  approximately  15%  in 
Europe, furthermore fewer than 15% of these EU ReFacto patients are children age 6-12 years.  Thus, 
at best, a very small number of patients could be expected to enroll in Study 4432, should the age limit 
be lowered to age 6. Furthermore, the MAH believes that the most critical study outcome parameter 
for Study 4432 is inhibitor development.  In this regard, subjects are all required to be PTPs with > 
59/70 
 
 
 
 
 
150 EDs at study entry. Since prior exposure (> 150 ED) rather than age is believed to be the most 
relevant eligibility parameter for inhibitor risk assessment, the MAH believes it is most appropriate to 
collect  inhibitor  development  data  from  subjects  age  12  or  greater,  provided  the  requisite  prior 
exposure of > 150 EDs is provided. Furthermore, the inclusion of PTP (> 150 ED) children aged 6-12 
in  a  study  focused  on  the  important  safety  outcome  of  inhibitors  will  likely  result  in  delays  to 
expedited  review  and  approval  by  the  various  Competent  Authorities  and  ethics  committees.    Since 
delays  to  study  activation  would  adversely  affect  ongoing  efforts  to  expedite  the  study  initiation  in 
advance  of  ReFacto  AF  market  introduction,  and  may  significantly  risk  meeting  the  objective  to 
capture sufficient numbers of patients prior to initiating ReFacto AF treatment, the MAH will restrict 
enrollment into Study 4432 to subjects who are at least 12 years of age.   
Additional studies in children using ReFacto AF, to further analyze safety, and efficacy, LETE, and 
including the potential for dosing adjustments in relation to PK data will be undertaken in children age 
6-12, as well as in younger children (age < 6) and PUPs (including neonates).   
The  FVIII:C  analyses  in  Study  4432  will  use  a  single  central  laboratory,  the  same  laboratory 
supporting  other  MAH  hemophilia  studies,  including  Study  4418.  The  protocol  for  Study  4432  will 
clearly  indicate  that  factor  VIII  activity  assessments  for  the  recovery  tests  will  be  performed  in  a 
central  laboratory  and  the  provision  of  instructions  and  supplies  for  collection  of  patient  plasma  for 
central laboratory testing will be included. The central laboratory will use the chromogenic (CS) factor 
VIII activity assay to analyze Factor VIII activity in plasma from patients using ReFacto AF in Study 
4432.  In addition, the Nijmegen modified Bethesda assay will be used to detect factor VIII inhibitors 
in patient plasma.  The separation of Study 4432 laboratory analyses from those of Study 4418, which 
evaluates Xyntha using the one-stage (OS) factor VIII activity assay, provides additional reassurance 
that operational errors will not occur in the central laboratory. This will be reinforced with trainings 
and laboratory reference manuals. 
Timing for study initiation 
The  MAH  will  assure  that  Study  4432  is  initiated  at  sites  throughout  the  EU  at  or  in  advance  of 
ReFacto  AF  market  introduction.  This  will  assure  the  opportunity  to  capture  baseline  data  on  all 
enrolled patients prior to their first ReFacto AF dose.   
Based  on  current  timeline  projections,  The  MAH  anticipates  site  initiations  followed  by  consenting 
initial  patients  for  study  participation  in  May,  2009.  This  will  assure  the  opportunity  to  capture 
baseline  data  on  all  enrolled  patients  prior  to  their  first  ReFacto  AF  dose.  While  completion  of 
enrollment  into  the  ReFacto  cohort  is  anticipated  over  6-12  months  following  study  initiation,  it  is 
anticipated that the majority of enrollment of the ReFacto cohort will be achieved during the first 3 to 
4  months  following  initiation  of  the  study,  coincident  with  the  time  required  for  replacement  of 
ReFacto with ReFacto AF throughout most of the EU marketplace. The enrollment of patients using 
products  other  than  ReFacto  will  likely  require  up  to  2  years  based  on  the  expectation  that  these 
patients will be more difficult to identify. The majority of all enrolled patients are expected to achieve 
the requisite 100 EDs in 2 years, such that the study should be completed in a 4 year period of time, 
inclusive of the 2 year enrollment period. 
Results will be made available as soon as possible based on enrollment rates.  However an analysis of 
results from this study will not be available in advance of the commercial introduction of ReFacto AF 
in  the  EU  marketplace.The  MAH  commits  to  report  observed  inhibitors  in  this  study  in  expedited 
fashion,  as  it  does  for  inhibitors  in  general.  Therefore  occurrences  of  inhibitors  will  be  shared  with 
EMEA and all SWITCH study investigators during the study as such events occur. This will allow for 
expeditious  communications  with  the  agency  and  investigators  participating  in  the  study,  and  will 
permit the opportunity to share information with the health care community in a timely manner if it is 
determined that a safety signal is detected. This would be consistent with the usual manner in which 
the MAH interprets and processes safety information on its marketed products. As well, the provision 
of  quarterly  line  listing  reports  which  include  inhibitor  cases,  every  6  month  PSUR  updates,  and 
clinical trial safety update reports will provide a vehicle to report interim observations from this study 
on an ongoing basis. 
60/70 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
The MAH has committed to provide a full calculation for justification of the sample size for this study, 
and if necessary amend the protocol. In addition, calculations of the inhibitor rates as currently known, 
for all studies should be provided.  
In addition, the company was asked to introduce into the protocol interim analysis at appropriate time 
points, which will be done in accordance with CHMP request.  
The CHMP agreed that the revised MAH proposal meets the requirements previously addressed to the 
MAH during the procedure including for example, mandatory inhibitor monitoring at baseline and at 
pre-defined following visits, appropriate number of patients, duration of follow up for 100 ED. 
German Pharmacovigilance Study (Study 4420) 
The  MAH  proposal  to  assess  the  patient  switch  from  ReFacto  to  ReFacto  AF  originally  relied 
significantly  on  the  German  Pharmacovigilance  study  (Study  4420)  which  is  a  non-interventional 
study. Study 4420 projected that approximately 180 patients would be enrolled, including 140 patients 
who previously used ReFacto.The study provided for inhibitor testing at the investigator’s discretion 
based  on  the  non-interventional  study  design.  While  it  is  anticipated  that  approximately  50%  of 
enrolled  patients  would  submit  to  inhibitor  testing  without  a  mandate,  the  MAH  accepts  the  EMEA 
position which seeks assurance that such tests are obtained via mandatory testing. However, since this 
study  is  non-interventional  in  design,  it  is  not  possible  to  amend  Study  4420  as  requested  by  the 
CHMP to mandate inhibitor laboratory testing at the required collection times during the surveillance 
period. The MAH will, however, modify the protocol for study 4420 to “strongly encourage” inhibitor 
surveillance testing and will provide a final protocol to CHMP by the end of December 2008. Study 
4420,  however,  will  not  be  relied  upon  as  the  main  ReFacto  AF  post-marketing  study  to  assess 
ReFacto  to  ReFacto  AF  switching  in  light  of  the  newly  proposed  study  (Study  4432)  described 
previously.  
Since the MAH introduced the new study 4432, meeting the CHMP requirements, this is considered 
acceptable by the CHMP. 
With regard to the comment on the feasibility of German Pharmacovigilance Study 4420, the duration 
of Study 4420 will be extended beyond 36 months if necessary to complete enrollment. Enrollment of 
the  planned  180  patients  in  Study  4420  is  considered  feasible  if  this  protocol  is  offered  as  a  non-
interventional study.  In Germany and Austria, preliminary feasibility assessments indicated that there 
are approximately 140 ReFacto treated patients already identified as potential candidates for transition 
to  ReFacto  AF  who  may  be  interested  in  participating  in  the  non-interventional  study.  Early 
enrollment of these patients into study 4420 may be anticipated as ReFacto AF replaces ReFacto in the 
EU  marketplace.  The  remaining  40  additional  patients  are  largely  expected  to  transition  from  other 
Factor  VIII  products.  In  the  context  of  an  interventional  trial  with  mandatory  inhibitor  testing, 
feasibility assessment indicated significantly fewer patients (20-30%) would be willing to participate.  
This  would  result  in  less  data  generated  for  analysis.  Thus,  Study  4420  will  proceed  as  a  non-
interventional  regional  study,  and  Study  4432  will  capture  the  requisite  number  of  ReFacto  AF 
switching patients as a multinational trial offered throughout the EU.     
The MAH agrees to amend the protocol for Study 4420 as requested to indicate that inhibitor testing at 
baseline and at follow-up visits is strongly encouraged, and should be obtained and recorded as part of 
routine  surveillance  for  inhibitors.  The  reference  to  testing  being  conducted  at  the  discretion  of  the 
physician  will  be  deleted  from  the  protocol.  The  MAH  explained  that  as  Study  4420  is  a  non-
interventional  study  designed  in  accordance  with  PASS  recommendations,  it  is  not  considered 
appropriate to mandate inhibitor testing. However, the MAH believes that these new recommendations 
for inhibitor testing at baseline and follow-up visits will provide increased data for a robust analysis 
and will support the data collected in Study 4432. The amended protocol for Study 4420 is provided in 
the RMP. 
CHMP noted that study 4420 will not be relied upon as the main ReFacto AF post-marketing study to 
assess  ReFacto  to  ReFacto  AF  switching.  As  another  switching  study  is  proposed  (Study  4432, 
61/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
described above) and is considered adequate, CHMP considered that the proposed protocol for study 
4420 was acceptable. 
Previously Untreated Patients study 
•  Study 4434 
The MAH proposes, upon request by the CHMP during the procedure, to conduct a post authorization 
study of moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU (ReFacto AF) in previously untreated patients 
(PUPs).  Results  from  this  study  will  supplement  clinical  data  for  other  patient  populations  that  was 
included  in  the  dossier  for  the  modified  product,  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC),  and  will  augment  other 
proposed post authorization studies to meet  requirements for a revised RMP  in compliance with the 
review of FVIII products undertaken by the Pharmacovigilance Working Party, and requests from the 
CHMP for  additional data. As  well, the MAH will  also initiate  a European registry of PUPs treated 
with ReFacto AF to supplement data collected in the newly proposed PUP study. 
The newly proposed study (Study 3082B2-4434, Study 4434) of PUPs (0 prior ED to FVIII products) 
will  enroll  at  least  50  subjects  with  severe  haemophilia  A  (<1%  FVIII  activity)  regardless  of  age, 
including  neonates.  Subjects  will  be  monitored  for  safety  and  efficacy.   All  adverse  events  will  be 
recorded  safety  monitoring  will  include  monitoring  by  inhibitor  assays  using  the  Nijmegen 
modification of the Bethesda assay. All subjects will have mandatory inhibitor and recovery samples 
drawn  at  regular  intervals  including  ED  1,  10-15,  and  50. Subjects  will  be  followed  at  6  month 
intervals for 100 ED or 2 years whichever comes first. All subjects will be followed for at least 50 ED. 
Inhibitor assays and FVIII activity levels using the CS assay will be accomplished in a single central 
laboratory. Subjects will have factor consumption and efficacy documented by infusion logs, bleeding 
record,  and  infusion  response  rating  scales. This  study  (Study  4434)  will  be  the  sole  interventional 
study enrolling ReFacto AF treated PUPs.     
PUP study data to be collected 
Data to be collected will include information on patient demographics (age, ethnicity), medical history 
(general health status, infections, surgery), hemophilia history (age at first FVIII exposure, treatment 
regimens,  reasons  for  treatment,  dosage  and  exposures,  FVIII  mutation  in  patients  developing 
inhibitors)  and  family  hemophilia  history  (including  inhibitors,  concomitant  treatments  including 
vaccinations).  Safety  observations  will  capture  the  frequency  of  adverse  events  including  clinically 
significant  inhibitors.  Clinically  significant  inhibitors  have  been  defined  in  the  study  synopsis  per 
recommendations  from  the  EMEA  Report  of  Expert  Meeting  on  Factor  VIII  Products  and  Inhibitor 
Development  (2007).  All  patients  will  have  mandatory  inhibitor  and  recovery  samples  drawn  at 
regular  intervals  including  ED  1,  10-15,  and  50.   Subjects  will  be  followed  for  100  ED  or  2  years 
whichever  comes  first.   All  subjects  will  be  followed  for  at  least  50  ED.    FVIII:C  activity  will  be 
measured  for  all  subjects,  using  the  CS  assay  at  a  central  laboratory.  Efficacy  outcomes  will  be 
assessed by ReFacto AF exposure, dose and consumption as well as by outcomes of bleeding episodes 
including  type,  location  and  severity  of  episode  and  response  of  bleeding  episodes  to  the  initial 
ReFacto AF infusion. Frequency of LETE will be reported. 
Study Sample size 
CHMP  raised  the  issue  that  a  study  of  50  patients  would  not  be  sufficient  to  provide  scientifically 
robust  conclusions  on  the  inhibitor  incidence  of  ReFacto  AF  in  PUPs  because  of  the  multiple 
non-product related risk factors that contribute to inhibitor risk in PUPs. The MAH acknowledged that 
multiple  risk  factors  may  contribute  to  inhibitor  risk  in  PUPs,  however  it  believes  it  is  beyond  the 
capacity of a single sponsor evaluating a single product to characterize the epidemiological impact of 
these various parameters on inhibitor development. As well, recruitment feasibility must be factored 
into the study design to assure the operational feasibility of the proposed study. PUPs are generally of 
a very young age, and include newborns, and comprise a small proportion of hemophilia A patients. In 
the  United  States  Uniform  Data  Collection  (UDC)  Study  sponsored  by  the          centres  for  Disease 
Control, only 3% of hemophilia A patients are under age 2 years; thus, only half that amount, 1-2%, of 
hemophilia A patients are born each year. With only 1-2% of this population available on an annual 
basis as PUPs, it is apparent that, very few PUPs would be available, on an annual basis to enroll in a 
62/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
new study of ReFacto AF.  This is consistent with reported enrollment progress on Baxter’s Advate 
PUP  study  which  has  taken  5.5  years  to  complete  enrollment  with  50  PUPs.  Since  most  PUPs  now 
begin  treatment  with  the  Advate,  identification  of  PUPs  for  enrollment  in  a  ReFacto  AF  PUP  study 
will  be  particularly  challenging,  especially  since  recent  MAH  market  survey  data  indicates  ReFacto 
market share is only approximately 15% in Europe. Therefore the enrollment projections for 50 PUPs 
into a new study of ReFacto AF reflect this reality according to the MAH. The CHMP considered the 
justification provided as valid but reinforced the need to gather data in PUPs in the shortest possible 
timeframe and to gather more extensive data by other approaches.  
Study timing 
The  MAH  has  provided  a  synopsis  for  PUP  Study  4434  in  the  RMP.  The  MAH  will  provide  a  full 
protocol to the CHMP by end of March 2009 as agreed during the procedure. The MAH projects study 
enrollment  initiating  by  September  2009.  Given  the  low  frequency  of  hemophilia  A  PUPs,  it  is 
anticipated that an extended time interval of up to 5 years will be required to complete enrollment of 
this study. Initiation of this study will not be dependent on additional data from PTP studies in patients 
age  12  or  older.  Based  on  the  expected  2  year  duration  of  study  participation,  the  MAH  anticipates 
completion of the study in approximately 7 years following initiation. 
PUP registry 
To  augment  data  regarding  use  of  ReFacto  AF  in  PUPs  with  severe  hemophilia  A,  The  MAH  also 
proposes to initiate a registry of PUPs with hemophilia A treated with ReFacto AF. This registry will 
be reflected in a study (number to be designated) that is non randomized, prospective and is conducted 
in major hemophilia treatment centres in Europe and other regions of the world where ReFacto AF is 
commercially  available.  The  registry  will  capture  safety  and  epidemiologic  observations  based  on 
EMEA  guidance  for  evaluating  recombinant  FVIII  replacement  product  safety,  including:  patient 
demographics, medical history, treatment history, disease severity, FVIII genotype (if available), and 
family hemophilia and inhibitor history. The registry will be open to enrollment of all PUPs treated 
with ReFacto AF at a dose and frequency prescribed by the treating physician. Infusion days, infusion 
reason, and treatment regimen will be ascertained using an infusion logbook. The registry is intended 
to  enroll  patients  over  a  five  year  period  and  will  capture  observations  on  each  patient  for  5  years.  
Thus, this registry will take approximately 10 years to complete following initiation.   
The  MAH  plans  to  prioritize  enrollment  into  PUP  Study  4434  over  the  PUP  Registry.  To  avoid 
competing  with  Study  4434  for  PUP  enrollment,  the  MAH  anticipates  opening  the  registry  to 
enrollment  as  the  first  PUPs  in  Study  4434  complete  50  ED  and  approach  completion  of  study 
participation (eg 100 ED or 2 years). As such, this approach will permit enrollment of patients directly 
into the registry and will also allow for patients in PUP Study 4434 to enroll in the Registry, providing 
for extended follow-up of these patients as well.  Based upon the annual enrollment assumptions, the 
MAH  anticipates  that  an  additional  50  unique  PUPs  may  be  available  to  join  the  registry  over  its 
anticipated 5 year enrollment period. Since there is no pre-specified limit on registry enrollment, the 
potential  does  exist  for  greater  than  50  PUPs  to  enroll  in  the  registry.  Based  on  the  assumption  that 
most PUPs participating in study 4434 will roll over into the registry, long term data in PUPs may be 
available on at least 100 patients.   
Treatment results from any PUPs who might be enrolled in the US Xyntha paediatric study 3082B2-
3315-WW may also provide supplementary data that contributes to the understanding of ReFacto AF 
safety  and  efficacy  in  PUPs,  since  that  study  also  evaluates  moroctocog  alfa (AF-CC),  albeit  with  a 
different final potency assignment. 
The MAH has taken on board the request from the CHMP during the procedure to consider gathering 
further data on treatement of PUPs from a registry. A synopsis is provided for the proposed registry in 
the RMP and the MAH commits to provide a full protocol for the registry by end of March 2009.  
Studies in PTPs less than 6 years  
63/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Paediatric study 313 
Paediatric study 3082B2-313-WW (study 313) is assessing prophylactic effectiveness, safety, efficacy 
and pharmacokinetics of Xyntha in children under age 6. The study is being conducted in the United 
States,  New  Zealand,  South  America,  Mexico  and  in  the  EU.  As  patients  have  already  enrolled,  the 
study will need to continue without modification in order to support an ongoing US FDA regulatory 
commitment for Xyntha. The MAH confirms that paediatric study 313 utilizes only the Xyntha drug 
product and does not utilize moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) intended for the EU (ReFacto AF).   
•  Study 4433 
A new Paediatric PTP Study (study 3082B2-4433, study 4433) using ReFacto AF is proposed by the 
MAH which will enroll subjects less than 12 years of age with severe hemophilia (FVIII<1%) treated 
with ReFacto AF and will include 2 cohorts of patients.  
The first cohort will study children under age 6 with prior exposure of at least 1 ED [MTPs (minimally 
treated patients) or true PTPs] to FVIII containing products (at least 20 efficacy evaluable patients).  
Data accrued from this first cohort of study 4433 is aligned with the new product requirements in the 
draft NfG governing conduct of a paediatric study in 20 children under the age of 6 years, regardless 
of prior treatment, in order to assess PK, safety and efficacy.   
The  second  cohort  in  study  4433  will  study  children  ages  6  to  <12  years  with  >150  ED  to  FVIII 
containing products (N=25, to assure evaluable PK data on at least 20). 
Subject  participation  in  this  study  will  conclude  after  100  EDs  or  2  years,  whichever  occurs  first.  
However patients not achieving 50 ED by 2 years will continue study participation to 50 ED. 
Study 4433: Cohort 1 Study Assessments in Children < 6 years of age  
PK assessments 
Subjects  in  the  cohort  of  children  <  6  years  of  age  (cohort  1)  will  undergo  an  initial  incremental 
recovery study following a single dose of ReFacto  AF (50 IU/kg). Blood will be sampled for FVIII 
activity pre-dose and at 30 minutes (±  5 minutes) after the ReFacto AF infusion. FVIII:C in plasma 
will be measured by chromogenic substrate assay performed in a central laboratory.  Results from this 
recovery study will provide potency dependent PK parameters (recovery, K value) for ReFacto AF in 
this  age  group.  These  results  will  be  supplemented  with  results  for  potency  independent  PK 
parameters (clearance, half life) obtained from Xyntha Paediatric Study 313 and, together, will assure 
that PK parameters for ReFacto AF in children under age 6 is fully characterized.   
Safety observations 
Safety  observations  in  this  study  will  capture  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  (by  severity  and  by 
relatedness  to  ReFacto  AF)  including  the  incidence  of  clinically  significant  FVIII  inhibitor 
development.  Clinically  significant  inhibitors  have  been  defined  in  the  study  synopsis  per 
recommendations  from  the  EMEA  Report  on  Expert  Meeting  on  Factor  VIII  Products  and  Inhibitor 
Development  (2007).  Mandatory  central  laboratory-based  assessments  for  FVIII  inhibitor  will  be 
conducted at the ED 1, ED 10-15, ED, 50 ED, at 6 month intervals and the Final/Early Termination 
visits. It is recommended that investigators will obtain serial follow-up inhibitor testing for any patient 
with a FVIII inhibitor result ≥0.6 BU until the result is <0.6 BU or the patient reaches the Final visit.  
Subjects will be followed for 100 ED or 2 years whichever comes first.  All subjects will be followed 
for at least 50 ED. 
Efficacy 
For all participants, efficacy observations will include the annualized bleed rate (ABR), incidence of 
less than expected therapeutic effect (LETE), consumption of ReFacto AF, number of infusions given 
per bleeding episode, assessment of response to each bleeding episode  (4-point scale of assessment). 
For those on preventive regimens, frequency and dose of infusions, time interval between bleed onset 
and prior ReFacto AF prophylaxis dose, incidence of prophylaxis regimen escalation, and compliance 
with assigned preventive regimen.  
64/70 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
Enrollment  in  the  first  cohort  of  paediatric  study  4433  will  remain  open  until  approximately  20 
efficacy evaluable patients are assured. This rolling enrollment paradigm has been adopted to account 
for any attrition among minimally treated patients that might be contained in this first cohort (age 0 to 
less than 6 years) who develop inhibitors.  
Study 4433: Cohort 2 Study Assessments in Children 6 to < 12 years of age  
Pharmacokinetics (PK) 
Approximately 25 children ages 6 to <12 years with over 150 ED at the time of study entry will have a 
full PK study done at ED1 to ReFacto AF with appropriate baseline and timed FVIII assays using the 
CS assay at a single central laboratory.  Sample collection will take place on a PK schedule modified 
for a paediatric age group and will include sampling times prior to and 0.5, 1, 3, 6, 9, 24, 28, 32 and 48 
hours after a ReFacto AF infusion on Day 1. This will provide the requested PK data for the patient 
population  age  6  to  less  than  12  years  and  will  permit  correlation  of  PK  results  with  ReFacto  AF 
consumption  and  efficacy  results  for  treatment  with  ReFacto  AF  (including  LETE)  that  are  also 
collected during this study.   
Safety 
Safety  observations  for  this  cohort  will  include  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  (by  severity  and  by 
relatednessto ReFacto AF) including the incidence of FVIII inhibitor development. All study subjects 
will  have  mandatory  inhibitor  and  recovery  samples  drawn  at  ED  1,  10-15,  and  50,  at  6  month 
intervals  and  the  Final/Termination  Visit.  Inhibitor  assays,  by  the  Nijmegen  modification  of  the 
Bethesda assay, and FVIII activity levels using the CS assay will be accomplished in a single central 
laboratory.  Subjects will have factor consumption and efficacy documented by infusion logs, bleeding 
record, and infusion response rating scales. Subjects will be followed for 100 ED or 2 years whichever 
comes first.  All subjects will be followed for at least 50 ED. 
Efficacy 
For all participants, efficacy observations will include the annualized bleed rate (ABR), incidence of 
less than expected therapeutic effect (LETE), consumption of ReFacto AF, number of infusions given 
per bleeding episode, assessment of response to each bleeding episode  (4-point scale of assessment). 
For  those  subjects  on  preventive  regimens,  frequency  and  dose  of  infusions,  time  interval  between 
bleed  onset  and  prior  ReFacto  AF  preventive  dose,  incidence  of  preventive  regimen  escalation,  and 
compliance with assigned preventive regimen will be collected.  
Sample size  
Sample size for the proposed cohort age 6 up to 12 years of age has been chosen to align with criteria 
in the draft NfG on the clinical investigation of a new recombinant FVIII product in 20 children and as 
such will be sufficient to provide the requested PK and efficacy data.   
Timelines for study 4433 
Study  enrollment  is  projected  to  initiate  as  soon  as  possible  following  ReFacto  AF  EU  market 
introduction, by September 2009.  Based on an anticipated 1 year enrollment period and 2 year study 
participation period, it is expected that this study will take 3 years to complete following initiation. A 
synopsis for the proposed paediatric Study 4433 is provided in the Risk Management Plan.  The MAH 
was requested to provide to the CHMP a full protocol will be provided by the end of March 2009.  
3.7 Changes in the product information 
A number of modifications of the SPC were discussed between the CHMP and the MAH during the 
assessment throughout the whole procedure. A short list of the main modifications discussed is 
presented below. 
Revison of section 4.2 Posology and method of administration. 
The  MAH  was  requested  to  include  a  statement  regarding  the  different  potencies  used  in  different 
regions  of  the  world  in  the  SPC  and  make  clear  that  the  products  with  different  potencies  used  in 
different regions of the world can be easily distinguished.  
65/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revision of section 4.8 Undesirable effects  
•  Request to indicate adverse events per patient and not per infusion.   
Revision of section 5.2 pharmacokinetics  
The complete PI is provided in annexes of the CHMP opinion.  
IV  
GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
The annexes of the opinion are amended in order to take into account the educational materials agreed 
by the CHMP as well as the change in the PSUR cycle.  
IV.1   THE  CONDITIONS  OR  RESTRICTIONS  WITH  REGARD  TO  SAFE  AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
The conditions or restrictions with regard to safe and effective use of the medicinal product are the 
following:  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) should ensure that, at launch, all Healthcare 
Professionals who are expected to prescribe/use ReFacto AF, all laboratories that are expected to 
monitor patients receiving ReFacto AF and all EU Haemophiliac patients associations are provided 
with Educational packs.  
The educational pack should contain the following  
 Summary of Product Characteristics and Patient Information Leaflet for ReFacto AF 
• 
•  The educational materials.  
The educational pack for Healthcare Professionals should include multiple educational patient’s 
materials to be provided by prescribers to patients before they receive RefactoAF. 
The educational materials for Healthcare professionals, patients and haemophiliac patients 
associations should include the following key elements: 
•  The main differences between ReFacto AF and ReFacto 
•  Changes highlighted in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Patient 
Information Leaflet for ReFacto AF  
•  The visual points of differentiation in packaging for ReFacto AF versus ReFacto 
•  Specific instructions regarding the proper identification, dosing and monitoring of 
ReFacto AF. 
•  That after switching to ReFacto AF, patients should remain on ReFacto AF and not 
switch back to ReFacto. 
•  The potential risks for medication errors in using different assays or laboratory 
standard for patient monitoring. Information that the chromogenic substrate assay is 
strongly recommended to be used by laboratories when monitoring patients receiving 
ReFacto AF and that typically one stage clotting assay results are 20-50% lower than 
the chromogenic substrate assay results 
66/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The existence of another moroctocog alfa containing product for use outside Europe 
with a different potency assigned using a one stage clotting essay and the need for 
patients to take an adequate supply of their ReFacto AF for anticipated treatment 
while traveling. Advice for health care professionals on possible need to adjust 
dosages for patients normally treated outside Europe with Xyntha. 
•  The importance to report suspected adverse reactions (including inhibitor occurrence) 
detailing the name and the batch number of the product used. The importance to 
report medication errors, and their causes and consequences. 
• 
Instructions on record keeping with recommendation to record, the name and batch 
number of the product received, using the peel-off labels provided on the vial.   
•  Additional messages regarding the transition plan for replacement of ReFacto with 
ReFacto AF in the Member State(s)  
The educational programme for laboratories should inform about the following key elements: 
•  The main differences between ReFacto AF and ReFacto 
•  Specific instructions regarding the proper monitoring of ReFacto AF. 
•  The potential risks for medication errors in using different assays or laboratory 
standard for patient monitoring  
•  Strong recommendation to use the chromogenic substrate assay when monitoring 
patients. Information that typically one stage clotting assay results are 20-50% lower 
than the chromogenic substrate assay results.  
•  The purpose of the laboratory standard. The differences in the new laboratory 
standard for ReFacto AF as compared to the laboratory standard for ReFacto and 
instructions on when to change to using the ReFacto AF laboratory standard. 
•  Additional messages regarding the transition plan for replacement of ReFacto with 
ReFacto AF in the Member State(s)  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall agree the educational material with the national 
competent authorities in all the Member States prior to the launch of the product 
IV.2    OTHER CONDITIONS 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, as described in version 05 December 
2005, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH commits to performing the studies and additional pharmacovigilance activities detailed in 
the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as agreed in version 4.7 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) and any 
subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report 
(PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted 
67/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
•  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached 
•  At the request of the EMEA  
PSUR cycle  
The MAH is required to submit PSURs at 6-monthly intervals for the first two years. Then PSURs 
should be submited once a year for the following 3 years.  
V  
OVERALL CONCLUSION ON BENEFIT RISK ASSESSMENT AND 
RECOMMENDATION 
The  MAH  filed  a  series  of  variations  to  support  various  manufacturing  changes  of  ReFacto  
(moroctocog  alfa).  These  changes  included  the  use  of  an  albumin-free  cell  culture  process 
(moroctocog alfa (AF-CC)) using the original cell line for manufacture of ReFacto to generate a new 
albumin-free  master  cell  bank  together  with  removal  of  human  serum  albumin  from  the  cell  culture 
process. The purification process is further refined by introduction of a chemically synthesized peptide 
affinity  ligand  to  replace  the  murine  monoclonal  antibody  sepharose  resin  and  addition  of  a  virus-
retaining  filtration  step  to  further  enhance  the  viral  safety  profile  of  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug 
product. These changes all add to the benefit of the product. 
Together,  these  variations  provided  evidence  that  the  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  drug  product  is 
comparable to currently marketed ReFacto and therefore is therapeutically equivalent. The applicant 
has  provided  evidence  that  moroctocog  alfa  (AF-CC)  is  bioequivalent  to  the  currently  marketed 
ReFacto (study 305) as well as supportive evidence for bioequivalence to the full-length Factor VIII 
product Advate (Study 310) when the FVIII potencies were assigned by a central laboratory (one stage 
assay versus plasma standard). Evidence for clinical comparability in terms of efficacy and safety for 
use in prophylaxis or on-demand treatment of bleedings have additionally been provided by the open-
label extension of this study (310) and the supportive study (306). A single pivotal study in surgical 
prophylaxis is still ongoing. Thus the current knowledge of the clinical efficacy and especially safety 
of moroctocog alfa AF-CC supports comparability.  
The applicant has responded to a set of questions posed in relation to the proposed post-authorisation 
studies.  The  applicant  has  proposed  a  number  of  new  studies  in  order  to  satisfy  the  demands  for 
adequate safety precautions for this new albumin free formulation of Refacto.  
In summary the applicant has proposed the following: 
A  post-authorisation  “Safety  Surveillance  Switch  Study”  in  PTPs  (>150  ED)  with  FVIII  <1%.  This 
study  will  ensure  mandatory  inhibitor  monitoring  for  at  least  100  Exposure  Days  (EDs),  and  will 
include  a  central  laboratory  using  the  Nijmegen  modified  Bethesda  Inhibitor  assay.  Factor  VIII 
activity  in  plasma  will  be  assayed  using  the  Chromogenic  Substrate  Factor  VIII  activity  assay.  The 
study  will  assess  patients  who  are:  a)  switching  from  ReFacto  to  ReFacto  AF  (N=150)  and  b) 
switching from Factor VIII products other than ReFacto to ReFacto AF (N=150). 
A study to evaluate PUPs and also a PUP Registry  
A  new  “Children’s  Study.”  This  Children’s  Study  will  assess  ReFacto  AF  in  previously  treated 
children  <  6  years  of  age  regardless  of  prior  exposure,  and  ReFacto  AF  including  full 
pharmacokinetics in PTPs children (>150 ED) age 6-12, all with FVIII:C <1%. 
A summary of each of the key features of the aforementioned studies are listed in Table 9-1 and Table 
9-2  included  in  this  report.  With  these  studies  it  is  considered  that  the  applicant  has  satisfactorily 
addressed  the  comments  of  the  CHMP  regarding  post-authorization  inhibitor  surveillance  and 
provision of post-authorization data in the paediatric population 
68/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  had  been  asked  to  submitted  a  revised  RMP  in  compliance  with  the  review  of  FVIII 
products undertaken by the Pharmacovigilance Working Partya and it was agreed that the RMP should 
cover both the currently marketed ReFacto and ReFacto AF. Following the responses assessed above 
an adequate RMP are now in place for this new albumin-free version of Refacto (in the future to be 
called Refacto AF) including a proper transition plan and post-marketing surveillance studies. 
In conclusion, the MAH has complied with all the issues and detailed questions raised by the CHMP. 
Of particular note is a new study (4432) to investigate the safety (and efficacy) when switching from 
ReFacto to ReFacto AF or switching from other r-FVIII products. This study is to be undertaken in a 
reasonable number of patients and is planned to start prior to the intended date on market launch of 
ReFacto in EU. In addition the previous ‘German switch study’ will continue as already planned, but 
with an additional effort to obtain inhibitor measurements at later time points than originally planned. 
In addition, two other new studies are planned – one PK study in PTP children (4433) especially to 
address the issue regarding potential for a different PK in the 6-12 year old patients. The other study is 
a  study  in  PUPs.  Furthermore,  the  MAH  is  planning  to  create  a  PUP  register,  which  is  strongly 
welcomed. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that,  
•  Pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
•  Additional risk minimisations activities were required (see as detailed in section IV.1 Conditions 
or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product).  
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk benefit balance of Refacto AF in the prophylaxis and treatment of patients with 
haemophilia A is favourable.  
V.  CONCLUSION 
On 18 December 2008 the CHMP considered these Type II variations to be acceptable and agreed on 
the amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II, Labelling and 
Package Leaflet and annex IV.  
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit any variation application which would be necessary in the light of compliance with these  
Follow-up Measures.  
An updated letter of undertaking was submitted on 15 December 2008 and agreed with the CHMP.  
VII.  EPAR CHANGES 
The EPAR will be updated following Commission Decision for this variation. In particular the EPAR 
module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope: 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/59  Use of peptide resin instead of MAb resin 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/60  Introduction of virus retaining filter 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/61  Increase in batch size for 2000IU strength 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/62  Qualification of second lyophilizer 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/63  Drug product specification changes 
a “EMEA completes the review of recombinant factor VIII products and inhibitor development” 
(EMEA/310225/2007 Corr). 
69/70 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
EMEA/H/C/232/II/64  Head space change (nitrogen overlay) 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/65  Drug substance and drug product assay changes 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/66  Potency standard calibration change 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/67  Change in drug product container closure system 
EMEA/H/C/232/II/68  Albumin free cell culture process and consequential changes in the 
substance manufacturing process  
70/70 
 
 
 
 
 
