SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of ReFacto. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 October 2003. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B 
1. 
Introduction 
ReFacto contains as active substance recombinant coagulation factor VIII (rVIII) (INN= moroctocog 
alfa) for use in therapy of factor VIII deficiency (Haemophilia A). Moroctocog alfa is a glycoprotein  
with  an  approximately  molecular  mass  of  170  kDa  consisting  of  1438  amino  acids.  It  has  an  amino 
acid sequence is comparable to the 90 + 80 kDa form of factor VIII (i.e. B-domain deleted), and post-
translational  modifications  that  are  similar  to  those  of  the  plasma-derived  molecule.  Recombinant 
coagulation factor VIII (rVIII) has functional characteristics comparable to those of endogenous factor 
VIII. 
Factor VIII is the specific clotting factor deficient in patients with haemophilia A. The administration 
of ReFacto increases functional plasma levels of factor VIII (replacement therapy) and can temporarily 
correct the coagulation defect in these patients. Activated factor VIII  acts as a  cofactor for activated 
factor  IX  accelerating  the  conversion  of  factor  X  to  activated  factor  X.  Activated  factor  X  converts 
prothrombin into thrombin. Thrombin then converts fibrinogen into fibrin and a clot is formed. 
A genetically engineered Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line produces ReFacto. The CHO cell line 
secretes  rVIII  into  a  defined  cell  culture  medium  that  does  not  contain  any  proteins  derived  from 
human or animal sources (except for pharmaceutical grade human serum albumin), and the protein is 
purified  by  a  chromatography  purification  process  that  yields  a  high-purity,  active  product.  The 
potency (IU) is determined using the European Pharmacopoeia chromogenic assay against the WHO 
standard.  The  specific  activity  of  ReFacto  was  13,000  IU  per  milligram  of  protein  (it  has  recently 
changed  to  11,000  IU,  see  section  II,  variation  II/26).  ReFacto  is  not  purified  from  human  blood  or 
plasma and contains no preservatives, added animal and no human proteins in the final formulation. 
ReFacto  is  presented  as  powder  and  solvent  for  solution  for  injection.  The  active  substance  is 
formulated as a sterile, non-pyrogenic, lyophilised powder preparation for intravenous injection. It is 
available  in  single-use  vials  containing  the  labelled  amount  of  factor  VIII  activity,  expressed  in 
International  Units  (IU).  Each  vial  contains  nominally  250,  500  or  1.000  IU  of  rVIII  per  vial.  The 
formulated  product  is  a  clear,  colourless  solution  upon  reconstitution  and  contains  sodium  chloride, 
sucrose, L-histidine, calcium chloride, and polysorbate 80. 
Therapeutic practices for Haemophilia A 
Haemophilia  A  is  a  congenital  inherited  bleeding  disorder  caused  by  a  partial  or  total  deficiency  of 
functionally active coagulation factor VIII (anti-haemophilic factor). The bleedings typically begin to 
occur  during  early  childhood.  Although  the  bleedings  can  involve  any  anatomical  region  they  most 
often  involve  joints  and  muscles.  Repeated  bleedings  during  childhood  may  result  in  destructive 
changes  of  the  joints  with  deformity,  contractures  and  muscle  atrophy.  The  degree  of  factor  VIII 
deficiency correlates with the frequency of clinically significant bleeding. Individuals with the severe 
form have factor VIII levels < 1% of normal activity (< 0.01-0.02 IU/ml), whereas moderate to mild 
forms have 1-5% and 5-25% of activity, respectively. 
Treatment  for  haemophilia  has  for  many  years  been  replacement of  factor  VIII based on infusion of 
plasma-derived factor VIII concentrates prepared from pooled multi-donor plasma. This has a dramatic 
effect on the clinical symptoms, given either on demand at episodes of bleedings or prophylactically to 
protect  the  patient  from  spontaneous  bleedings.  Dosage  of  factor  VIII  concentrates  is  related  to  the 
severity  of  the  bleeding  and  the  age  of  the  patient.  Recently,  factor  VIII  products  prepared  by 
recombinant  biotechnology  have  been  introduced,  offering  the  advantage  of  better  viral  safety  and 
reducing the demand for blood donor products. 
Recent research on the relation between structure and function of the factor VIII molecule has revealed 
that despite a deletion of the B-domain of the heavy chain of factor VIII, anti-haemophilic activity is 
1/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
preserved.  Thus,  rVIII  is  genetically  engineered  to  consist  of  an  unchanged  light  chain  (80 kDa)  in 
complex with a modified heavy chain (90 kDa), lacking all but 14 amino acids of the large central B-
domain. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition and product development 
ReFacto  contains  the  active  substance  moroctocog  alfa  (rVIII),  which  is  a  recombinant  DNA  factor 
VIII preparation, differing from other factor VIII preparations (recombinant and plasma) in that the B-
domain has been deleted. A genetically engineered Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line produces 
rVIII. 
ReFacto is available as  a lyophilised powder in three dosage forms: 250 IU, 500 IU and 1000 IU in 
vials. The powder is reconstituted with isotonic sodium chloride for injection. The powder is provided 
in 10 ml type I glass vials with stoppers of bromobutyl rubber and the solvent in 8 ml type I glass vials 
with stoppers of chlorobutyl rubber. 
In  the  clinical  trials,  three  formulations  of  ReFacto  (B,  C  and  D),  differing  in  minor  steps  of  the 
purification process, have been used. This has been used in combination with minor modifications of 
the excipient concentrations and with different solvents for reconstitution (sodium chloride and water 
for injections). Pharmacokinetic comparison has been performed and the use of the different versions 
is acceptable.  
The development pharmaceutics have been addressed satisfactorily. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  typical  for  a  protein  parenteral  product  and  has  been  described  in 
sufficient  detail.  Formulation  and  filling  takes  place  at  Pharmacia  &  Upjohn,  Lindhagensgatan  133, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Appropriate in-process controls are performed. 
The validation of the manufacturing process was performed with three batches of ReFacto, 250 IU and 
1000 IU. Detailed and satisfactory experimental data of the validation for ReFacto and the solvent has been 
provided. 
Active substance  
Two  chains,  90  kDa  and  80  kDa,  held  together  by  a  metal  ion  bridge,  define  the  B-domain  deleted 
form of factor VIII; both chains are glycosylated. The relative molecular mass is 170 kDa. ReFacto has 
a total of 1438 amino acids plus 5 % carbohydrate. 
Development genetics  
In this section, the assembly of the production strain has been described. 
The  steps  and  the  assembly  of  the  full  length  human  factor  VIII  cDNA  from  a  piece  of  human 
chromosomal DNA and cDNA sequences from several sources as well as the removal of the major part 
of the region encoding the B-domain have been sufficiently described.  
Cell Bank System 
Data on the preparation and characterisation of the produced master and working cell banks (MCB and 
WCB) have been provided. The current MCB and WCB specifications, routine stability testing as well 
a detailed protocol for the preparation of renewal working cell banks have been provided.  
Fermentation, harvesting and purification 
Fermentation,  harvesting  and  primary  capture  step  take  place  at  Pharmacia  &  Upjohn  AB, 
Strandbergsgatan 47-49 Stockholm and the purification process takes both at Pharmacia & Upjohn AB, 
Strandbergsgatan  47- 49  and  Lindhagensgatan  133,  Stockholm,  Sweden.  The  fermentation  and 
purification process is adequately controlled, resulting in a consistent product of high purity. Removal 
of impurities and validation of the production process have been well demonstrated by data on a large 
number of fermentation and purification runs.  
During development, the purification process has been modified to make the process more robust. In 
total, four purification methods are used (A, B, C and D). Methods C and D were used for the phase II 
2/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
and III clinical studies. Method D, being the one proposed for marketing, reveals the highest purity and 
the lowest content of DNA and CHO cell protein. Detailed information on the differences between the 
purification  processes  and  the  batch  analysis  of  the  active  substance  from  the  different  purification 
schemes have been provided.  
The genetic stability data provided proved to be acceptable. 
Characterisation  
The structure of rVIII has been extensively studied by state-of-the-art techniques and was compared to  
the  structure  of  plasma-derived  factor  VIII  and  to  the  80  +  90  kDa  complex  isolated  from  human 
plasma. These studies indicate that rVIII and the 80 + 90 kDa form of plasma factor VIII have many 
common structural characteristics. 
Physical-chemical characterisation 
The  full-length  FVIII  contains  2332  amino  acid  residues.  The  A1,  A2,  and  A3  domains  have 
approximately 30% amino acid sequence pair wise homology, and the two C domains 37%. The A and 
C  regions  are  essential  for  the  function  of  the  molecule.  The  B  domain  is  not  known    as  having 
importance for the procoagulation function. 
The  gene  construct  of  rVIII  codes  for  a  single  170  kDa  chain  which  corresponds  to  the  90  kDa  and 
80 kDa  chains  of  factor  VIII  fused  by  a  linker  region  of  14  amino  acids.  The  primary  translation 
product is produced intracellularly into a heterodimeric 90 kDa + 80 kDa complex held together by a 
metal ion bridge. The two-chain molecule is secreted into the cell culture medium, together with small 
amounts  of  unprocessed  primary  translation  product.  In  the  rVIII  molecule,  the  A1-A2  domains  and 
A3-C1-C2  domains  are  present.  Most  of  the  B  domain  is  deleted  except  the  sequence  of  14  amino 
acids, which joins the A2 and A3 domains. 
Amino acid sequence 
The  NH2-terminal  sequence  of  the  90  kDa  chain  and  80  kDa  chain  has  been  shown  to  be  consistent 
with the sequence of plasma derived FVIII. 
Glycosylation 
There  are  three  potential  sites  in  the  90  kDa  chain  and  three  in  the  80  kDa  chain  for  N-linked 
glycosylation. Four of these have been found to be glycosylated. In addition, two sites in the 80 kDa 
chain have been found to be O-glycosylated. The content of sugar is about 5%. The sugar composition 
and the major part (80%) of the oligosaccharide structures have been determined. 
Secondary Structure 
Far  ultraviolet  circular  dichroism  spectroscopy  of  the  plasma  factor  VIII  and  rVIII  gave  similar 
spectra. 
Molecular formula 
The  amino  acid  composition  of  rVIII  agrees  well  with  the  expected  sequence  and  the  sequence  for 
plasma derived factor VIII.  
Analysis of the primary and secondary structure of rVIII and plasma FVIII produce evidence that the 
main structural features are the same.  
1. 
2. 
3. 
≤10 % of the 170 kDa single chain in the rVIII. 
Two forms of 90 kDa chain in rVIII: the 90:1 form with the -COOHterminal end extended with 
the  SQ–link,  and  the  90:2  form,  a  truncated  form  where  the  SQ  link  and  additional  20  amino 
acids were missing. The ratio of the two forms varied from 1.0 to 2.1. 
The  COOH-terminal  end  of  90  kDa  chain  [90  +  80]  kDa  form  of  pdVIII  has  not  been 
determined due to limited supply of material. 
4. 
Some minor differences in the NH2-terminal heterogeneity of the 80 kDa chain. 
Original pictures of all the gels have been provided. 
3/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Biological characterisation 
The rVIII molecule and the 170 kDa precursor have been compared with plasma factor VIII by activity 
assays,  factor  Xa  generation,  inactivation  with  activated  protein  C  and  in  vitro  thrombin  activation 
with  follow-up  of  degradation  products  and  binding  to  von  Willebrand  factor  (vWF).  The  rVIII  and 
170 kDa precursor showed little or no difference to plasma factor VIII. 
Process validation and impurities 
Validation of the production process has been provided and assures consistency of the yield, degree of 
purity and quality of the active ingredient. 
Batch analysis 
Results from 25 full-scale batches have been provided.  
Other ingredients 
All materials used as excipient in the powder for solution for injection (sodium chloride, sucrose, L-
 histidine, calcium chloride dihydrate and polysorbate 80) and the solvent (sodium chloride and WFI in 
bulk) comply with Ph.Eur. 
Control of finished product 
Results from 31 commercial manufacturing batches have been presented to demonstrate consistency of 
the  manufacturing  process;  analysis  of  the  results  shows  good  batch-to-batch  consistency  of  the 
process.  
Taking together the in-process controls performed and final specifications set up, assurance is provided 
in terms of production of a consistent product of high quality. 
Three batches of each strength were stored at 8°C, 25°C, 30°C, 40°C, -20° C for up to 36 months. The 
methods used to establish the stability of the finish product are: FVIII assay, SEC-HPLC, SD-PAGE, 
moisture,  solubility,  appearance,  clarity,  degree  of  coloration,  particulate  matter,  sterility,  abnormal 
tox., pyrogens, LAL. 
For the finished product a shelf life of 24 months can be accepted. However, real time shelf-life data 
will be provided on an ongoing basis. 
The  product  may  be  stored  at  25°C  for  three months within the shelf  life.  The product  must not be 
returned to the refrigerator. 
Viral  safety  of  the  product  is  sufficiently  assured  by  the  viral  screening  of  the  cell  banks,  routine 
testing of the harvest for adventitious viruses and the virus validation studies. 
GMP 
GMP compliance of the manufacturing process has been assessed by the relevant GMP inspections.  
Conclusion at the time of authorisation 
The  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  part  of  the  dossier  concerning  ReFacto  is  carefully 
documented and overall is satisfactory. As follow-up measures, the company on an ongoing basis will 
address minor points for clarifications as well as additional information on the manufacturing process. 
All additional data will be carefully monitored and the results reviewed by the Agency. 
4/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Post-Approval main changes 
• 
Introduction of an additional strength: ReFacto 2000 IU (Procedure Ref.  
EMEA/H/C/232/X/22  
The applicant applied for the 2000 IU dosage strength to ease the use for the number of patients using 
over 2000 IU per dose.  
ReFacto  2000  IU  is  formulated  as  a  sterile,  nonpyrogenic,  lyophilised  powder  preparation  for 
intravenous injection.  It is available in single-use  vials containing the labelled amount of factor VIII 
activity, expressed in international units (IU). Each vial contains nominally 2,000 IU of ReFacto per 
vial.  The  formulated  product  is  a  clear  colourless  solution  upon  reconstitution  and  contains  sodium 
chloride, sucrose, L-histidine, calcium chloride, and Polysorbate 80.  
The proposed SPC, labelling and PIL is based on the latest approved product information for the 250 
IU, 500 IU and 1000 IU.  
A  very  reduced  “Part  II”  was  submitted  as  the  applicant  in  their  approval  referred  heavily  to  the 
original  and  current  application  dossier  approved  for  the  three  other  ReFacto  dosage  strengths, 
especially regarding the active substance and the virological documentation.  
The EU guidelines are fulfilled in general and satisfactory evidence is provided that product 
manufacture is well controlled, that the consistency of production is achieved and that a satisfactory 
product results. It is the CPMP opinion that with regards to the chemical/pharmaceutical/biological 
data no major objections can be raised against a marketing authorisation for ReFacto 2000 IU.    
No toxicological evaluation has been performed with Refacto 2000 IU vials. This is considered by the 
CPMP  to  be  acceptable.  No  clinical  documentation  has  been  submitted  with  this  application.  The 
company satisfactorily justifies for this new strength in the Expert Report. 
• 
The  introduction  of  a  change  to  Refacto  drug  product  specific  activity  in  the  SPC  (Ref. 
Variation II/26) 
A  collaborative  study  conducted  by  a  number  of  European  Official  Medicinal  Control  Laboratories 
(OMCLs)  demonstrated  variability  among  laboratories  in  the  potency  assessment  of  ReFacto  using 
chromogenic substrate assays.  
Based  on  the  results  of  this  data,  Wyeth  applied  for  a  change  to  the  Marketing  authorisation  to  
recalibrate  the  standard  used  to  establish  the  amount  of protein  per international  unit of the ReFacto 
drug product. The assigned potency of the current ReFacto reference standard is approximately 20% 
higher than the value obtained from the recent collaborative study. Using this new potency value, the 
specific activity is recalculated as 11,000 IU/mg protein instead of the previous 13,000 IU/mg protein. 
Therefore, based on the favourable assessment of the CPMP and approval of the EC, the Summary of 
Product Characteristics has been updated to reflect the newly assigned specific activity.  
Wyeth intention was to start the introduction of this change in early July 2003, anticipating that that 
the haemophilia centres as well as hospital pharmacies in connection with haemophilia centres would 
switch their existing ReFacto inventory to new ReFacto by September 2003.  
(For  more  information,  please  see  module  “steps  taken  after”  &  and  EMEA  Public  Statement  on 
ReFacto dated 27.05.03). 
Conclusion  
To  date  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  part  of  the  dossier  concerning  ReFacto remains 
carefully documented and overall is satisfactory. 
5/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  safety  assessment  of  sucrose  and  polysorbate  80  and  chemical  substances  (ethylene  glycol, 
tributyl  phosphate,  and  Triton  X-100)  used  in  the  production  of  rVIII  has  been  provided.  These 
substances  raise  no  safety  concerns.  It  is  considered  that  a  sufficient  safety  margin  exists  at  the 
proposed specified residue limits. 
Characterisation of the rVIII molecular complex 
rVIII  is  a  deletion  version  of  human  coagulation  factor  VIII.  The  molecule  has  been  genetically 
engineered to correspond to the smallest of the multiple active forms of factor VIII found in plasma-
derived  factor  VIII  concentrates.  A  genetically  engineered  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO)  cell  line 
produces rVIII.  
The  rationale  for  drug  design  was  that  the  B-domain  was  most  likely  not  required  for  expression  of 
biological activity. The overall size of the full-length molecule has been decreased by approximately 
40%  from  2332  to  1438  amino  acids,  by  replacing  the  B-domain  of  908  amino  acids  with  a  short 
peptide linker of 14 amino acids, derived from the ends of the B-domain.  rVIII molecule is composed 
of two polypeptide chains, 90 and 80 kDa, held together by a metal ion bridge. 
Thus, rVIII is similar but not completely identical to the 90 + 80 kDa complex isolated from human 
blood.  
Overall, rVIII behaves qualitatively and quantitatively as pVIII. 
Batches used in the preclinical programme 
Batches  from  purification  methods  A  through  D  were  used  as  test  material  during  preclinical 
development.  These  methodology  improvements  involved  improvements  of  purification  without 
changes in rVIII structure or functional activity. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Primary pharmacodynamics 
Despite observed differences in the clearance and in the volume of distribution at steady state between 
rVIII  and  the  comparator  plasma-derived  factor  VIII,  Octonativ-M  in  haemophilic  dogs,  both 
preparations  were  similarly  effective  and  showed  a  similar  plasma  half-life.  The  doses  employed 
(125 and 500 IU/kg) were 4- to 16-fold higher than the intended therapeutic dose. The animal data are 
considered sufficient in view of the clinical documentation. 
The in vitro and in vivo (haemophilia A dogs model) pharmacodynamic studies presented an improved 
haemostasis as well as restoring of the clotting defect were shown support the proposed use in man. 
From the studies, it is concluded that the biological functionality of the rVIII molecule is essentially 
similar to that of plasma derived factor VIII, including binding properties to vWF. 
Safety pharmacology 
A  relevant  safety  pharmacology  study  was  performed,  examining  the  cardiovascular  and  respiratory 
systems in dogs. No safety issues were detected.  
Pharmacokinetics 
No  studies  were  performed  to  address  distribution,  biodegradation  or  excretion.  However,  such 
information is not required for this particular product. 
The  intravenous  pharmacokinetics  of  rVIII  were  examined  in  the  haemophilia  A  dog  and  the 
Cynomolgus  monkey.  Overall,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  rVIII  in  haemophilia  A  dogs  was 
comparable  to  that  of  plasma-derived  factor  VIII.  In  the  Cynomolgus  monkey  the  pharmacokinetic 
profile of rVIII was almost similar to full length non-proteolytically processed 170 kD protein. 
6/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinically,  based  on  the  above-referenced  animal data, it should be expected that rVIII has  a similar 
kinetic profile to that plasma-derived factor VIII. 
No  kinetic  data  of  rVIII  in  rats  have  been  submitted,  which  is  considered  acceptable  in  light  of  the 
exaggerated systemic exposure demonstrated in the dog and monkey.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single i.v. dose toxicity was studied in rats and cynomolgus monkeys. No treatment-related findings 
occurred. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated i.v. dose toxicity was studied in rats (up to 28-30 days) and in cynomolgus monkeys (up to 
13 weeks). rVIII was immunogenic in both species. In rats, no treatment-related toxicity occurred. In 
cynomolgus monkeys, haemorrhagic lesions were induced (predominantly in the heart) probably due 
to  the  neutralising  antibody  response  to  both  administered  recombinant  human  and  endogenous 
monkey factor VIII. Similar findings were noted in cynomolgus monkeys treated with plasma-derived 
factor VIII (Octonativ-M). 
Reproduction studies 
No reproductive toxicity studies were conducted. This poses no problem for this particular product. 
Mutagenic potential 
An in vivo micronucleus assay in mice was negative. Further testing is not needed. 
Oncogenic/carcinogenic potential 
No carcinogenicity studies were performed. These are not needed in view of the nature of the product 
and its proposed indication. 
Local tolerance 
In beagles, single paravenous and intra-arterial administration was well tolerated. 
Special toxicity studies 
Two immunogenicity studies were conducted in cynomolgus monkeys. The first one compared i.v. and 
s.c.  administration  of  rVIII  during  6  weeks  and  revealed  a  somewhat  different  anti-rVIII  antibody 
response. The second one compared rVIII and Octonativ-M given by repeated i.v. dosing over a period 
of 13 weeks. No obvious difference was noted. 
GLP 
All pivotal safety studies were conducted in compliance with GLP regulations. 
Conclusion on preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  preclinical  programme  of  rVIII  is  of  high  quality  and  adequately  designed  in  respect  to  the 
recombinant  DNA-technology  based/human  protein  nature  of  the  rVIII  molecule.  Key  safety  studies 
were performed according to GLPs.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
No specific pharmacodynamic studies have been carried out. Considering the replacement therapy of 
coagulation factor VIII, which is an endogenous clotting factor in human plasma, these studies are not 
mandatory. 
7/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
As previously mentioned in this assessment, several formulations of rVIII have been prepared during 
the development process of the product. Formulation “D” is the product which intended for marketing. 
Eighteen patients with severe haemophilia A were included in a pivotal randomised, multicentre, three-
way cross over study (Report 97 10 751) comparing pharmacokinetic data after single dose infusion of 
rVIII  of  formulation  “C”  and  formulation  “D”  with  a  commercially  available  plasma-derived  factor 
VIII concentrate (Hemofil®-M). All patients had at least one year of earlier treatment with factor VIII 
concentrate. The single injections were separated by a wash-out period of at least five days. The dose 
given was 50 IU/kg.  
It  was  possible  to  show  bioequivalence  between  formulations  “C”  and  “D”  for  all  parameters.  The 
AUC  of  rVIII  was  slightly  higher  than  that  of  Hemofil®-M,  but  the  difference  was  not  statistically 
significant and the ratio of 1.13-1.15 is within the accepted variation of 80-120%.  
Conclusion:  ReFacto  has  pharmacokinetic  properties  similar  to  a  plasma-derived  factor  VIII  product 
with respect to all important parameters, which makes clinical efficacy highly likely.  
Repeated  pharmacokinetic  analysis  after  12  months  in  a  large  number  of  patients  found  unchanged 
results for recovery and elimination half-life. 
Clinical experience 
All efficacy and safety aspects meet the requirements of the guideline for assessment of efficacy and 
safety  of  plasma  derived  factor  VIII  products  (CPMP/BPWP/198/95),  except  for  viral  safety. 
However,  these  guidelines  can  only  be  taken  as  a  recommendation,  especially  because  they  are  not 
intended to cover the development of recombinant DNA coagulation factors. 
Owing to the fact that rVIII is a high-purity product and the CHO cell line secretes rVIII into a defined 
cell  culture  medium  free  of  proteins  derived  from  animal  sources,  the  assessment  of  viral  safety  in 
clinical studies (e.g. previously untreated patients) is not mandatory. 
The  major  safety  issue  is  the  development  of  neutralising  antibodies  (inhibitors)  due  to  the 
immunogenicity  of  factor  VIII  molecules  infused  into  a  patient  with  no  or  very  low  levels  of 
endogenous factor VIII. Inhibitors partly or completely abolish the effect of replacement therapy. The 
neoantigenecity  of  a  new  brand  of  factor  VIII  is  best  assessed  in  previously  treated  patients  (SSC 
recommendation of ISTH, White et al., Thrombosis and Haemostasis in Press 1999). The magnitude of 
the inhibitor in a patient is expressed in Bethesda Units/ml (BU/ml). One BU/ml inhibits 50% (0.5 IU) 
of factor VIII activity in 1 ml of normal plasma. 
Clinical efficacy of a factor VIII product includes studies of previously treated patients (PTP) as well 
as previously untreated patients (PUP). The efficacy during surgical procedures was also evaluated.  
PTP-studies  (No. 97 10 778) 
One hundred and six patients of 108 completed the study according to the protocol. All patients had 
previously been treated with blood formulations between 5 and 49 years before this study. All patients 
had to have severe haemophilia A (factor VIII < 2%). The age of the 108 patients was between 8 and 
73 years (median 26 years and mean 28 years). Twenty-nine patients were HIV positive. HIV status 
was unknown for two patients at study start. Ninety-six patients were positive for hepatitis C. Hepatitis 
C status was unknown for two patients at study start. All but one of the HIV positive patients were also 
positive  for  hepatitis  C.  Seventy  patients  were  positive  for  hepatitis  B  antibody.  The  108  patients 
received a total of 10,887 rVIII injections, ranging from 1 to 647 injections per patient for a cumulative 
total of 21,325,930 IU rVIII infused. The total number of exposure days was 10,023 ranging from 1 to 
348 exposure days per patient with a median of 78 days (mean 93 days). One hundred and five patients 
were  treated  on  demand  for  bleeding  episodes  and  89  patients  received  prophylactic  treatment. 
Bleeding episodes were treated with an average dose of 29 IU/kg rVIII per injection and prophylactic 
treatment averaged 26 IU/kg rVIII per injection. 
The number of patients with severe haemophilia A has been considered sufficient. Unfortunately, most 
patients  were  positive  for  hepatitis  C  and  some  for  HIV.  Although  HIV  status  is  likely  to  affect  the 
immune status of the patient, this is not a major problem, as the previously untreated population (to be 
discussed below) is the population mostly at risk for inhibitors after exposure to FVIII products. 
8/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
PUP studies  (97 10 641) 
Eighty-seven patients were included with a mean age of 10 months (range 0-52 months) at inclusion. 
The studies were conducted in 46 centres in 15 countries. Patients had to have severe haemophilia A 
(factor VIII: C < 0.02 IU/ml). The study drug was given in two forms, "C" formulation was given at 
the beginning of the study and "D" formulation at a later stage. As previously discussed, the two rVIII 
formulations  are  biopharmaceutically  equivalent.  The  mean  dose  used  for  bleeding  episodes  was  53 
IU/kg  (range  26  to  156  IU/kg).  The  investigator,  for  each  injection  given  for  a  bleeding  episode, 
assessed  the  haemostatic  effect.  The  investigator  conducted  a  global  efficacy  assessment  using  a  5-
 graded subjective scale every three months. 
Surgery studies  (97 10781): 
Twenty-five male patients with moderate (factor VIII 2-5%) or severe (factor VIII < 2%) haemophilia 
A  were  treated  with  rVIII  before  and  after  surgical  procedures.  The  type  of  surgical  procedures  in 
previously  treated  and  untreated  patients  show  that  most  previously  treated  patients  underwent 
procedures  related  to  the  joints,  such  as  total  knee  replacement.  PUPs  surgical  procedures  consisted 
primarily  of  Port-A-Cath  insertion.  A  mean  pre-surgery  dose  of  59  IU/kg  in  the  PTPs  produced  a 
factor VIII level close to the normal level (0.966 IU/ml).  
Therapeutic efficacy 
PTP-studies  (No. 97 10 778) 
One hundred and five patients reported 2380 bleeding episodes during the study. Seventy-one percent 
of all bleeding episodes required only one single injection of rVIII for resolution. Ninety-three percent 
of  the  bleedings  were  resolved  after  one,  two  or  three  injections.  The  majority  of  bleeding  episodes 
were categorised as joint bleeds (n=1867), 449 were muscle, soft tissue and unspecified bleeds and 64 
affected  other  specified  tissues.  The  assessment  was  made  by  either  the  patient  (when  the  treatment 
was  administered  at  home)  or  by  the  investigator  (when  the  injection  of  rVIII  was  administered  in 
hospital). Assessment revealed that out of 561 global assessments on a 5-graded scale, 554 (99%) were 
rated  as  "very  useful"  or  "useful".  Six  of  the  remaining  assessments  were  "slightly  useful"  and  one 
rating was "useless". At the start of the study (n=87) and after 12 months the mean in vivo recovery 
was  132%  and  132%  and  the  mean  elimination  half-life  10.4  and  10.5  hours  respectively.  The  data 
shows that recovery (%) and elimination half-life (h) does not change over time. 
It  is  concluded  that  efficacy  has  been  adequately  shown  by  the  results  of  the  investigators’  and 
patients’ rating of efficacy in 105 patients reporting 2380 bleeding episodes.  
PUP studies  (97 10 641) 
Sixty-four  percent  (276  of  429)  bleeding  episodes  were  resolved  with  a  single  infusion.  Ninety-one 
percent  (389/429)  of  bleeding  episodes  were  resolved  within  three  infusions.  The  investigator  rated 
response for each injection given for a bleeding episode. Haemostatic effect was rated “excellent” or 
“good”  of  92.5%  of  injections  (all  bleeds),  87%  for  joint,  94.5%  for  muscle/soft  tissue  and  98%  for 
other specified tissues. Prophylactic treatment was given to four patients who received a total of 174 
injections  over  a  mean  duration  of  17  weeks  (mean  dose  of  41  IU/kg  per  injection).  There  were  no 
break-through bleeding episodes. 
Surgery studies  (97 10781) 
A factor VIII level close to normal was maintained during the rest of the day of surgery. This required 
a  mean  maintenance  dosage  of  85  IU/kg.  During  the  week  following  surgery  a  mean  dosage  of 
565 IU/kg/week  was  given.  The  haemostasis  was  judged  as  “excellent  or  good”  after  all  28  surgical 
procedures.  The  blood  loss  during  the  day  of  surgery  was  judged  as  normal  for  the  26  procedures 
where assessments were made. Transfusions were required in only two out of the 28 procedures. One 
comment that can be made is the large amount of factor VIII used in the surgical replacement therapy.  
However, the fact that in most patients the dose of substitution during the first week is low or normal 
in comparison with literature data regarding the first post-operative week is reassuring. rFVIII-SQ has 
been  tested  in  sufficient  surgical  procedures  (28)  and  effective  haemostasis  was  achieved  and 
maintained in 28 surgical procedures. 
9/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Safety 
The main efficacy data come from the cumulative safety data from studies in PTPs, PUPs and patients 
undergoing surgery. First, a summary of the results of the initial safety studies 95 10 592, 96 10 593 
and 96 10 546) conducted in a small number of patients is provided. 
Safety study 95 10 592 
Six  patients  with  severe  haemophilia  (factor  VIII:  C  < 0.01  IU/ml)  were  included  in  an  open,  non-
comparative,  three-centre  study.  The  results  showed  that  rVIII  was  well  tolerated.  There  were  no 
adverse  reactions  and  no  FVIII  inhibitors  were  found.  No  antibodies  to  FVIII,  CHO  cell-derived 
components or mouse IgG were found. The investigator rated the treatment as "very useful" or "useful" 
in all 6 cases.  
Safety study 96 10 593 
Three  previously  treated  patients  received  prophylactic  rVIII  three  times  weekly  during  four  weeks. 
The  C-formulation was used. One case of mild rise in body  temperature was observed after the first 
injection only. No inhibitors were found. The treatment was evaluated as "useful". 
Safety study 96 10 546 
Four previously treated patients received prophylactic rVIII three times per week during four weeks. 
The C-formulation was used. The rVIII was well tolerated and no inhibitors were found. There were 
no increases in antibodies to CHO-derived components or mouse IgG. The treatment was evaluated as 
"very useful" and "useful" by the investigator as well as by the patient. 
Cumulative safety data from studies (PTPs, PUPs and patients undergoing surgery) 
The applicant provides an updated report summarising all cumulative safety data from the three studies 
(PTPs, PUPs and patients undergoing surgery). The data lock-point for the safety study, at the time of 
the submission of the dossier, was May 1997. The safety of rVIII has been assessed in a total of 213 
patients (97 PUPs, 112 PTPs and 4 patients undergoing surgery only). It should be noted that 33 of the 
patients who underwent surgical intervention were recruited from one of the other studies. Patients in 
the pivotal studies had received at least one injection of rVIII. Thirty-eight batches of rVIII were used, 
20  of C formulation and 18 of D formulation. Three patients died during the studies.  Two (2) were 
diagnosed as HIV positive and Hepatitis C positive prior to enrolment in the trial.  The third patient 
had  severe  haemophilia  A  and  developed  high  titre  inhibitors  not  neutralized  when  treated  with 
immune tolerance therapy.  These deaths were considered not related to rVIII treatment.   
In  addition  to  inhibitor  reports  in  26  patients,  72  adverse  events  which  were  rated  as  probably  or 
possibly related to therapy were reported. Fifteen patients experienced 21 serious adverse events where 
the causal relationship to rVIII was rated as possible or probable by the investigator and are therefore 
classified  as  adverse  reactions.  Eleven  of  these  serious  adverse  drug  reactions  were  associated  with 
inhibitor  formation  (see  below).  The  remaining  10  serious  adverse  drug  reactions  in  6 patients  were 
increased  AST,  and  ALT,  infected  haematoma,  pain  in  little  finger,  weakness  in  adduction  and 
abduction, fever, removal of Port-a-Cath, Port-a-Cath implantation and anaphylactic reaction. Allergic 
type reactions (including anaphylactic-type reactions) are described in the SPC. 
Seven  (out  of  100)  patients were withdrawn from the PUP  study and ten (out of 114)  from the PTP 
study. In five patients (3 in PTPs and 2 in PUPs) there were clinically significant changes in clinical 
chemistry or haematology tests. All these tests were aberrations in liver function tests and in one case a 
slight increase in CK-MB.  
Inhibitors 
At the cut-off date of October 1996, when 87 patients had at least once required therapy with rVIII, 
17 patients (19%) had developed inhibitors to factor VIII after a median exposure of 11 days (table 2). 
Seven were high responders (BU/ml > 5) and 10 were low responders with a peak level of < 5 BU. In 3 
patients the detectable inhibitor titre was present on a single occasion only. The mean age at inclusion 
in the study was 10.5 months (median 9 months). The mean interval between the first injections and 
inhibitor detection was 6 months. The median number of exposure days at inhibitor detection was 11 
days (mean 12.5 days, range 4-50 days). A Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that inhibitor development 
occurred at a risk of 25% after 13 exposure days. The inhibitor disappeared spontaneously in 4 patients 
10/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
and  in  another  four  during  immune  tolerance  treatment.  The  assessment  of  the  response  to  the  rVIII 
treatment  in  inhibitor  patients  is  indicated  in  table  1.  In  the  safety  summary  report  97  107  90  all 
cumulative data from the PUP and PTP studies and patients were summarized (cut-off point 31 May 
1997). At that time a total of twenty-six patients out of 97 PUPs (27%) developed inhibitors. Nine of 
the  PUPs  with  inhibitors  were  high  responders  (>  5  BU/ml),  and  six  of  these  had  peak  values  >  10 
BU/ml.  
Table 1: Assessment of the response to the r-VIII treatment in inhibitor patients (PUP study No. 
97 10 641) 
Assessment  All bleeds 
Joint bleeds 
excellent 
Good 
Fair 
None 
Total 
Number  % 
  66 
  50 
  30 
    0 
146 
  45 
  34 
  21 
    0 
100 
Number  % 
  27 
  23 
    9 
    0 
  59 
  46 
  39 
  15 
    0 
100 
Muscle,  soft  tissue 
and unspecified 
Number  % 
  23 
  15 
  12 
    0 
  50 
  46 
  30 
  24 
    0 
100 
specified 
Other 
tissues 
Number  % 
  16 
  12 
    9 
    0 
  37 
  43 
  32 
  24 
    0 
100 
An  increase  in  the  incidence  of  inhibitors  from  the  report  of  November  1996  (19%)  to  May  1997 
(27%)  of  previously  untreated  patients  was  observed  (table  2).  The  applicant  submitted  updated 
documentation  for  inhibitor  development.  Data  available  from  January  1998  concerns  101  patients 
with  a  median  exposure  of  20  days  and  an  inhibitor  incidence  of  29%  (29  patients  of  101  patients). 
Five patients with low-titre inhibitor have, after re-evaluation, been considered false positive reactions 
due to methodological aspects of the assay.   
An important observation is that the median number of exposure days until inhibitor development has 
remained  constant  (12  days)  while  the  median  number  of  exposure  days  has  increased  from  9  to 
20 days.  Moreover,  so  far  no  patient  has  been  observed  developing  an  inhibitor  after  50  days  of 
exposure.  In  a  Kaplan-Meier  estimate,  this  translates  into  a  plateau  after  18  exposure  days  and,  on 
extended observation, the probability of remaining inhibitor-free continues at 70%. These observations 
are very similar to other licensed recombinant factor VIII products.  
In addition, both formulations "C" and "D" have been used in the PUP-study and it can not be totally 
excluded that these formulations have different immunogenicity characteristics. In 2 (out of 112) PTPs 
(2%)  inhibitors  to  factor  VIII  were  suspected  based  on  local  tests  but  could  not  be  confirmed  in  the 
Bethesda Inhibitor Assay at the central laboratory.  
Laboratory  significant  increases  of  antibodies  to  CHO-cell  derived  components  were  reported  in 
14 PTPs and 12 PUPs. Significant increases of antibodies to mouse IgG were also reported in 3 PTPs 
and 8 PUPs. The rise was only transient in some patients. No clinical symptoms were associated with 
the rise in any of the patients and in no case did it prevent further treatment with rVIII.  
Table 2:Inhibitor data in previously untreated patients 
1 November 1996  31 May 1997 
31 January 1998 
Incidence of inhibitor 
-high responder (peak level > 5 BU/ml) 
-low responder (peak level< 5 BU/ml) 
17/87 (19%) 
  7 
10 
29/101 (29%) 
26/ 97 (27%) 
  9 (6 > 10 BU)  15 (10 ≥ 10 BU) 
17 
14 
Median  number  of  exposure  days  at 
inhibitor detection 
11 
12 
12 
In  summary,  ReFacto  treatment  is  associated  with  an  incidence  of  inhibitor  induction  in  previously 
untreated  patients  of  approximately  20  –  30%,  which  is  similar  to  the  results  of  other  factor  VIII 
products as reported in the literature. The company is committed to improve the statistical evaluation 
of the inhibitor incidence to give a more precise picture in the on-going PUP study. 
Post-approval submitted clinical data: Additional Phase III clinical data on Inhibitors 
11/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following the 2nd PSUR (Periodic Safety Update Report 31.01.98 – 31.08.99), data from ongoing trials 
have revealed that 32% of PUPs treated with ReFacto developed inhibitors: 16% with a titre ≥ 5 BU 
and 16% with a titre below 5 BU. Interim data from these studies were initially submitted at the time 
of the MAA submission. The median number  of exposure days up to inhibitor development in these 
patients  was  12  days  (range  3-49  days).  One  of  113  (0.9%)  PTPs  developed  an  inhibitor.  Inhibitor 
development  occurred  in  the  same  time  frame  as  the  development  of  monoclonal  gammopathy  of 
uncertain significance. The development of inhibitor was associated with a bleeding episode that failed 
to respond to ReFacto treatment. Eighteen of 113 (16%) PTPs had an increase in anti-CHO antibody 
titre, without any apparent clinical effect. The anti-CHO antibody titres decreased to below threshold 
levels at subsequent assessment time-points in 14/18 patients (78%). 
The  SPC  has  been  updated  in  line  with  recommended  core  SPC  for  factor  VIII  and  IX  products, 
resulting in a number of changes. These include: i) replacement of the dosing table for patients with 
bleeding  episodes  and/or  surgery,  ii)  information  on  the  differences  in  dose  and  frequency  of 
administration for children including new-borns, iii) pharmacodynamic data in children < 6 yrs old, iv) 
general  information  on  the  formation  of  neutralising  antibodies  (inhibitors),  v)  statements  on lack of 
effect,  mainly  in  prophylaxis  patients  and  a  recommendation  to  consider  alternative  therapies  in 
patients  with  high  inhibitor  titres,  where  Factor  VIII  therapy  may  not  be  effective  and  vi)  a 
recommendation to register the patient’s name and product batch number after each administration has 
been inserted. 
Overall benefit/risk analysis 
Based  on  the  assessment  of  the  quality,  safety,  and  efficacy  documentation  of  ReFacto  (rVIII),  and 
with  due  consideration  to  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  to  Assess  Efficacy  and  Safety  of  Human 
Plasma derived Factor VIII:C and Factor IX:C Products in Clinical Trials in Haemophiliacs before and 
after Authorisation (CPMP adopted Feb.96) (CPMP/BPMP/198/95), the benefit/risk ratio for ReFacto 
is positive. Therefore, a marketing authorisation is recommended.  
5. 
Overall conclusions 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP,  17  December  1998, 
considered  by  consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  ReFacto  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of 
hemophilia  A  (congenital  factor  VIII  deficiency  or  classic  hemophilia)  and  prevention  of  bleeding 
(prophylaxis).   
As  with  other  factor  VIII  products,  it  has  been  recommended  to  give  the  legal  status  of  a  medicinal 
product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
To  date  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  part  of  the  dossier  concerning  ReFacto remains 
carefully documented and overall is satisfactory. The final data on quality, safety and efficacy which 
were provided after the CPMP opinion was granted did not affect the benefit/risk ratio of Refacto but 
led to adequate changes to the product information. 
12/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
