Summary of risk management plan for ReFacto AF (moroctocog alfa [AF-CC])
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ReFacto AF. The RMP details 
important risks of ReFacto AF, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about ReFacto AF's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
ReFacto AF's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its Package Leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how ReFacto AF should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for ReFacto AF should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
ReFacto AF's RMP.
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For
ReFacto AF is authorised for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with 
haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency).  ReFacto AF is appropriate for use in 
adults and children of all ages, including newborns.  ReFacto AF does not contain von 
Willebrand factor, and hence is not indicated in von Willebrand’s disease.  It contains 
moroctocog alfa (AF-CC) as the active substance and it is given by intravenous injection.
Further information about the evaluation of ReFacto AF’s benefits can be found in ReFacto 
AF’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the medicine’s webpage:
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000232/h
uman_med_001019.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124
II. Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks
Important risks of ReFacto AF, together with measures to minimise such risks and the
proposed studies for learning more about ReFacto AF's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
Page 1
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of ReFacto AF is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A. List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of ReFacto AF are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered.  Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ReFacto AF.  Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1.
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
Inhibitor development
Allergic reactions
Medication error/product confusion
None
Page 2
II.B. Summary of Important Risks and Missing Information
Table 2.
Important Identified Risk: Inhibitor Development
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
CT and postmarketing data.
Inhibitor development is an inherent risk with all FVIII products.  Inhibitors are 
more common in severe haemophilia A and are uncommon in patients with mild 
to moderate haemophilia.  Additional factors that may affect the risk of the 
inhibitor development include:

Severe haemophilia caused by mutations associated with a major loss of 
coding information (eg, large deletions, inversions and mutations which result 
in premature translation stops).
Family history of inhibitor development.

 Number of previous exposure days to FVIII; PUPs are at substantially greater 


risk than PTPs.
Certain ethnic groups, eg, those of African ancestry.
The presence of factors such as intensive treatment and/or severe illness 
during FVIII administration.
Risk minimisation
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC Sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1; PL Sections 
2 and 4.
Additional risk minimisation measures: None
Table 3.
Important Identified Risk: Allergic Reactions
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimisation
measures
CT and postmarketing data.
No clinically important subpopulation differences in risk were identified other 
than patients with a noted past hypersensitivity to the active substance or any of 
the excipients or patients with known allergic reactions to hamster proteins who
are at increased risk for allergic type hypersensitivity reactions.
Previously untreated patients (PUPs) with severe haemophilia A treated with any 
FVIII replacement therapy may be more susceptible to an allergic reaction 
compared with PTPs.
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC Sections 4.3, 4.4, and 4.8; PL Sections 
2 and 4.
Additional risk minimisation measures: None
Page 3
Table 4.
Important Potential Risk: Medication Error/Product Confusion 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Postmarketing data.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimisation
measures
No clinically important subpopulation differences in risk were identified.
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC Sections 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, and 6.6; PL 
Sections 3, 5, and 6
Additional risk minimisation measures: None
II.C. Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1. Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific
obligation of ReFacto AF.
II.C.2. Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for ReFacto AF.
Page 4
