EMA/319898/2023 
EMEA/H/C/004178 
Refixia (nonacog beta pegol) 
An overview of Refixia and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Refixia and what is it used for? 
Refixia is a medicine used to treat and prevent bleeding in patients with haemophilia B, an inherited 
bleeding disorder caused by the lack of factor IX, a protein needed to produce blood clots to stop 
bleeding.  
Refixia contains the active substance nonacog beta pegol. 
How is Refixia used? 
Refixia can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be under the supervision of a 
doctor who has experience in the treatment of haemophilia. 
Refixia is given as an injection into a vein. The dose and frequency of treatment depend on whether 
Refixia is used to treat or prevent bleeding or to reduce bleeding during surgery, the extent and 
location of the bleed, and the patient’s bodyweight. 
Patients or their carers may be able to inject Refixia themselves at home once they have been trained 
appropriately. For full details, see the package leaflet. 
For more information about using Refixia, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Refixia work? 
Patients with haemophilia B lack factor IX, a protein needed for normal clotting of the blood, and as a 
result, they bleed readily. The active substance in Refixia, nonacog beta pegol, works in the body in 
the same way as human factor IX. It replaces the missing factor IX, thereby helping the blood to clot 
and giving temporary control of bleeding. 
What benefits of Refixia have been shown in studies? 
Refixia has been shown to be effective at both treating bleeding episodes and keeping the number of 
episodes low. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
In a study involving 74 adults and adolescents aged 13 or above, 29 patients given Refixia as a weekly 
preventive treatment had around 1 bleeding episode a year, and 15 patients given Refixia for treating 
bleedings ‘on demand’ had around 16 bleeding episodes a year. In addition, when bleeding did occur, 
Refixia was rated excellent or good at treating around 92% of bleeding episodes. 87% of bleeding 
episodes resolved with one injection of Refixia.  
In the second study in 25 children aged below 13 years previously treated with other factor IX 
products, all patients were given Refixia as a weekly preventive treatment. After one year of 
treatment, patients had around 1 bleeding episode per year. Refixia was rated excellent or good at 
treating around 93% of bleeding episodes. Around 86% of bleeding episodes resolved with one 
injection. The study also provided data on the long-term use of Refixia. During up to 8 years of 
treatment with Refixia, the average yearly bleeding rate was 0.9 bleeds per year. Refixia was rated 
excellent or good at treating around 89% of bleeding episodes. Around 82% of bleeding episodes 
resolved with one injection of Refixia.  
In a third study in 50 children aged below 7 years who were previously not treated with other factor IX 
products, Refixia was given as a weekly preventive treatment. During up to 6 years of treatment with 
Refixia, the average yearly bleeding rate was 0.7 bleeds per year. Refixia was rated excellent or good 
at treating around 96% of bleeding episodes. Around 91% of bleeding episodes resolved with one 
injection of Refixia.  
Results from both studies in children also showed that after around 6 years of treatment with Refixia, 
patients achieved stable factor IX levels that were in the range expected for those with mild 
haemophilia. 
What are the risks associated with Refixia? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Refixia, see the package leaflet. 
Hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions are uncommon with Refixia (may affect up to 1 in 100 patients) 
and may include: swelling, burning and stinging at the injection site, chills, flushing, itchy rash, 
headache, hives, low blood pressure, lethargy, nausea and vomiting, restlessness, a fast heartbeat, 
tightness of the chest and wheezing. In some cases, these reactions can become severe. 
Some patients taking factor IX medicines may develop inhibitors (antibodies) against factor IX, causing 
the medicine to stop working and resulting in a loss of bleeding control. Factor IX medicines can also 
potentially cause problems due to the formation of blood clots in the blood vessels.  
Refixia must not be used in patients allergic to nonacog beta pegol or any of the ingredients of the 
medicine, nor in those with known allergy to hamster proteins.  
Why is Refixia approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Refixia’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU.  
Studies have shown that Refixia is effective at preventing and treating bleeding episodes in patients 
with haemophilia B and its safety is comparable to that of other factor IX products. However, part of 
the active substance in Refixia (called PEG) may accumulate in the body, including in a structure in the 
brain called choroid plexus, following long-term treatment.   
Long-term use of Refixia in children below 13 years of age resulted in a low yearly bleeding rate. In 
addition, Refixia was considered to provide a protective effect against bleeding episodes by generating 
Refixia (nonacog beta pegol)  
EMA/319898/2023  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
stable factor IX levels in children below 13 years who were given the medicine to prevent bleeding. 
Refixia was previously not authorised for children below 12 years of age because of concerns about the 
accumulation of PEG in young children. Comprehensive data from studies, including data on long-term 
use, has not shown any link with side effects on the nervous system due to the accumulation of PEG.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Refixia? 
The company that markets Refixia will conduct a study to investigate the potential effects of PEG 
accumulation in the choroid plexus of the brain and other organs.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Refixia have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Refixia 
Refixia received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 2 June 2017. 
Further information on Refixia can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/refixia  
This overview was last updated in 07-2023. 
Refixia (nonacog beta pegol)  
EMA/319898/2023  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
