EMA/629707/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005854 
Regkirona (regdanvimab) 
An overview of Regkirona and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Regkirona and what is it used for? 
Regkirona is a medicine used for treating COVID-19 in adults who do not require supplemental oxygen 
and who are at increased risk of their disease becoming severe.  
Regkirona contains the active substance regdanvimab. 
How is Regkirona used? 
Regkirona is given as a single infusion (drip) into a vein within 7 days of the start of COVID-19 
symptoms; the dose depends on the patient’s body weight. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be given in healthcare facilities 
where patients can be monitored while receiving the infusion and for at least 1 hour afterwards, and 
where they can be adequately managed in case they develop severe allergic reactions, including 
anaphylaxis.  
For more information about using Regkirona, see the package leaflet or contact your healthcare 
provider. 
How does Regkirona work? 
The active substance in Regkirona, regdanvimab, is a monoclonal antibody with activity against SARS-
CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID 19. A monoclonal antibody is a type of protein that has been 
designed to attach to a specific structure (called an antigen). Regdanvimab has been designed to 
attach to the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2. When regdanvimab attaches to the spike protein, the virus 
is unable to enter the body’s cells.  
What benefits of Regkirona have been shown in studies? 
A main study involving 1,315 patients with COVID-19 showed that Regkirona led to fewer patients 
requiring hospitalisation or oxygen therapy, or dying, when compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment). Among the patients at increased risk of their illness becoming severe, 3.1% of patients 
treated with Regkirona (14 out 446) were hospitalised, required supplemental oxygen or died within 28 
days of treatment compared with 11.1% of patients on placebo (48 out of 434).  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The majority of patients in the study were infected with the original SARS-CoV-2 virus or the Alpha 
variant; data on the efficacy of Regkirona against some circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants is currently 
limited. 
What are the risks associated with Regkirona? 
Infusion-related reactions, including allergic reactions and anaphylaxis, may affect up to 1 in 1,000 
people given Regkirona. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Regkirona, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Regkirona authorised in the EU? 
Regkirona was shown to be effective at reducing the risk of hospitalisation or death in patients with 
COVID-19 at increased risk of the disease becoming severe. The safety profile of Regkirona is 
considered favourable. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Regkirona’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Regkirona? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Regkirona have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Regkirona are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Regkirona are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Regkirona 
Regkirona received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 12 November 2021. 
Further information on Regkirona can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/regkirona  
This overview was last updated in 11-2021. 
Regkirona (regdanvimab)  
EMA/629707/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
