EMA/565630/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005060 
Rekambys (rilpivirine) 
An overview of Rekambys and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rekambys and what is it used for? 
Rekambys is used together with another medicine called cabotegravir to treat adults infected with 
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS). It is used in adults whose infection is under control with other HIV medicines. 
Rekambys contains the active substance rilpivirine. 
How is Rekambys used? 
Rekambys is available as a prolonged-release suspension for injection. ‘Prolonged release’ means that 
the active substance is released slowly over a few weeks after being injected. The medicine is given by 
injection into the hip or buttock muscle by a doctor or nurse.  
Before starting treatment, the doctor ensures that the patient agrees to keep to the schedule of 
injections, because this is important to keep the virus under control and there is a risk that levels of 
the virus could increase or the virus could become resistant to treatment if doses are missed. 
Rilpivirine and cabotegravir tablets are taken daily by mouth for one month, after which Rekambys and 
cabotegravir injections are given monthly or every 2 months.  
If treatment with Rekambys is stopped, another treatment to supress the virus must be started to 
minimise the risk that the virus could become resistant to treatment.  
Rekambys can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started by a doctor who 
has experience in the management of HIV infection.  
For more information about using Rekambys, including the schedule for the injections, see the package 
leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Rekambys work? 
Rekambys is a type of HIV medicine called a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI). It 
blocks the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV-1 that allows it to make more 
viruses in the cells it has infected. By blocking this enzyme, Rekambys, taken in combination with 
cabotegravir, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Rekambys does not 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it can hold off damage to the immune system and the development of 
infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Rekambys have been shown in studies? 
Rekambys, taken together with cabotegravir, was as effective as other HIV medicines in maintaining 
the HIV-1 level in the blood (viral load) below a defined level (less than 50 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml) in 3 
main studies involving patients with HIV-1 infection. The studies involved patients who had not taken 
HIV medicines before or who had been taking these medicines for at least 6 months. 
In two studies, patients were treated with Rekambys and cabotegravir or with combinations of other 
medicines. After 48 weeks, the HIV-1 level was above the limit in 1.9% of patients (11 out of 591) 
taking monthly injections of Rekambys and cabotegravir and in 1.7% of patients (10 out of 591) taking 
other medicines.  
One study showed that injections of Rekambys and cabotegravir given monthly or every 2 months 
were similarly effective. After 48 weeks for patients taking the injections every 2 months, the HIV-1 
level was above the limit in 1.7% of patients (9 out of 522) compared with 1% of patients (5 out of 
523) who had monthly injections. 
What are the risks associated with Rekambys? 
The most common side effects with Rekambys (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
injection site reactions, headache and fever. 
Rekambys must not be used with the following medicines as they may lead to reduced blood levels of 
the medicine, reducing its effectiveness: 
• 
• 
• 
carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin (medicines for epilepsy); 
rifabutin, rifampicin, rifapentine (antibiotics); 
systemic dexamethasone (a steroid anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant medicine), except 
when used as a single dose treatment; 
•  St John’s wort (a herbal antidepressant medicine). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Rekambys, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Rekambys authorised in the EU? 
Injections every month or every 2 months may be more convenient for patients than taking medicines 
every day. Studies showed that the injections were as effective at keeping the virus level low as other 
standard medicines. It is important that patients keep to the schedule of injections to avoid the virus 
becoming resistant to treatment, and further studies will determine whether this is happening once the 
medicine is on the market. The European Medicines Agency decided that Rekambys’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rekambys? 
The company that markets Rekambys will carry out 2 studies on how the medicine is used and its 
effectiveness. The outcomes for patients who switch to other treatments after taking Rekambys will 
also be studied. 
Rekambys (rilpivirine)  
EMA/565630/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rekambys have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rekambys are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Rekambys are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Rekambys 
Rekambys received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17.12.2020. 
Further information on Rekambys can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/rekambys.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2020. 
Rekambys (rilpivirine)  
EMA/565630/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
