EMA/684112/2016  
EMEA/H/C/003994 
EPAR summary for the public 
Rekovelle 
follitropin delta 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Rekovelle. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Rekovelle. 
For practical information about using Rekovelle, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Rekovelle and what is it used for? 
Rekovelle is a medicine given to women who are having fertility treatments such as in vitro fertilisation 
(IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). It is used to stimulate the ovaries to produce several 
eggs at the time, which can then be collected and fertilised in the laboratory.  
Rekovelle contains the active substance follitropin delta. 
How is Rekovelle used? 
Rekovelle is available as a solution for injection, contained in a cartridge to be used with Rekovelle 
injection pen. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started 
under the supervision of a doctor who has experience in the treatment of fertility problems. 
Rekovelle is given by injection under the skin once a day for several consecutive days during the 
woman’s menstrual cycle starting on day 2 or 3 of the cycle and is continued until sufficient eggs have 
developed. The starting dose of Rekovelle depends on the woman’s bodyweight and on the blood level 
of the anti-Müllerian hormone (a hormone which indicates how well the ovaries will respond to 
stimulation). The dose can then be modified in subsequent cycles according to the woman’s response. 
After the first injection, the woman or their partner may be able to give the injections themselves, if 
they have been trained and have access to expert advice. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Rekovelle work? 
The active substance in Rekovelle, follitropin delta, is a copy of the natural hormone called follicle-
stimulating hormone (FSH) which plays a key role in fertility in women by stimulating the production of 
eggs in the ovaries. Giving extra stimulation with Rekovelle helps increase the number of eggs 
produced in the ovaries, which means that more eggs can then be collected and fertilised in the 
laboratory. 
What benefits of Rekovelle have been shown in studies? 
Rekovelle was compared with GONAL-f (follitropin alfa), another fertility medicine, in one study 
involving 1,326 women who were undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation for IVF or ICSI. The main 
measure of effectiveness was the rate of implantation and pregnancy. 
The study showed that Rekovelle was as effective as GONAL-f at stimulating the ovaries: around 31% 
of women (204 out of 665) treated with Rekovelle became pregnant compared with around 32% of 
women (209 out of 661) treated with GONAL-f. Implantation rates were also similar: around 35% with 
Rekovelle versus around 36% with GONAL-f. 
What are the risks associated with Rekovelle? 
The most common side effects with Rekovelle (which may affect between 1 and 10 people in 100) are 
headache, discomfort and pain in the pelvic area which may arise from the ovaries, nausea (feeling 
sick) and tiredness and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). OHSS is when a woman’s ovaries 
over-respond to stimulation, causing symptoms such as vomiting, diarrhoea and pain. In severe cases 
OHSS may lead to difficulty breathing and problems with blood clotting. The frequency of side effects 
may decrease with repeated treatment cycles. For the full list of all side effects reported with 
Rekovelle, see the package leaflet. 
Rekovelle must not be used in women with tumours of the pituitary gland or hypothalamus, or cancer 
of the breast, womb or ovary. Rekovelle must not be used when there is enlargement of an ovary or a 
cyst that is caused by something other than polycystic ovarian syndrome, or when there is unexplained 
bleeding from the vagina. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Rekovelle approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Rekovelle’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
The CHMP considered that Rekovelle was effective in obtaining several eggs at the same time following 
stimulation in women undergoing fertility treatment. The safety profile of Rekovelle was considered 
acceptable and similar to that of GONAL-f.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rekovelle? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rekovelle have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Rekovelle  
EMA/684112/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Rekovelle 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Rekovelle on 12 December 2016. 
The full EPAR for Rekovelle can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Rekovelle, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2016. 
Rekovelle  
EMA/684112/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
