EMA/76495/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000240 
Remicade (infliximab) 
An overview of Remicade and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Remicade and what is it used for? 
Remicade is an anti-inflammatory medicine. It is usually used when other medicines or treatments 
have failed, in adults with the following diseases: 
• 
rheumatoid arthritis (an immune system disease causing inflammation of the joints). Remicade is 
used with methotrexate (a medicine that acts on the immune system); 
•  Crohn’s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the digestive tract), when the disease is 
moderate to severe or fistulising (with the formation of fistulae, abnormal passageways between 
the gut and other organs); 
•  ulcerative colitis (a disease causing inflammation and ulcers in the lining of the gut); 
• 
• 
• 
ankylosing spondylitis (a disease causing inflammation and pain in the joints of the spine); 
psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin and inflammation of the joints); 
psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin). 
Remicade is also used in patients aged between 6 and 17 years with severe, active Crohn’s disease or 
severely active ulcerative colitis, when they have not responded to or cannot take other medicines or 
treatments. 
Remicade contains the active substance infliximab. 
How is Remicade used? 
Remicade is available as a powder that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip into a vein). 
Remicade can only be obtained with a prescription and must be given under the supervision and 
monitoring of a specialised doctor who has experience in the diagnosis and treatment of the diseases 
that Remicade can be used to treat. 
Remicade is usually given as 3 mg per kilogram body weight in rheumatoid arthritis, although the dose 
can be increased if necessary. The dose is 5 mg per kilogram for the other diseases. How often the 
treatment is repeated depends on which disease is being treated, and on the patient’s response to the 
medicine. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Remicade is given as an infusion lasting one or two hours. All patients are monitored for any reactions 
during the infusion and for at least one to two hours afterwards. To reduce the risk of infusion-related 
reactions, patients may be given other medicines before or during treatment with Remicade or the 
infusion time may be slowed down. For more information about using Remicade, see the package 
leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Remicade work? 
The active substance in Remicade, infliximab, is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein that has been 
designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure (called an antigen) in the body. Infliximab has 
been designed to attach to a chemical messenger in the body called tumour necrosis factor-alpha 
(TNF-alpha). This messenger is involved in causing inflammation and is found at high levels in patients 
with the diseases that Remicade is used to treat. By blocking TNF-alpha, infliximab improves the 
inflammation and other symptoms of the diseases. 
What benefits of Remicade have been shown in studies? 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Remicade has been studied in a total of 1,432 patients with rheumatoid arthritis in two studies. In 
these studies, more patients taking Remicade in combination with methotrexate showed a reduction in 
symptoms than those taking methotrexate alone, as well as less damage to the joints and greater 
improvements in physical function. 
Crohn’s disease 
In Crohn’s disease in adults, Remicade was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 1,090 
adults in four studies. In these studies Remicade produced a greater improvement in symptoms, led to 
fistulae healing in more patients and increased the time that patients continued to respond to 
treatment.  
The effects of adding Remicade to existing treatment have also been studied in 103 children and 
adolescents with Crohn’s disease who were aged between 6 and 17 years. Most of the patients showed 
a reduction in symptoms after adding Remicade to their existing treatment.  
A sixth study in 508 adult patients looked at the number of patients whose symptoms improved and 
who did not need additional treatment with corticosteroids (other medicines used in Crohn’s disease). 
The patients were treated for 6 months with Remicade, another medicine azathioprine, or the 
combination of Remicade and azathioprine. Remicade alone and in combination with azathioprine was 
more effective than azathioprine alone. 
Ulcerative colitis, ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis 
For ulcerative colitis (728 adults), ankylosing spondylitis (70 adults) and psoriatic arthritis (104 
adults), Remicade has been compared with placebo. More adult patients receiving Remicade had a 
reduction in symptoms than those receiving placebo.  
In a study with 60 children aged between 6 and 17 years with ulcerative colitis 73% of patients 
responded to treatment with Remicade at week eight (44 out of 60). 
Psoriasis 
In a study in 627 adults with psoriasis, Remicade led to a greater improvement in symptoms than 
placebo. 
Remicade (infliximab)  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Remicade? 
The most common side effects with Remicade (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are viral infections 
(such as flu or cold sores), headache, upper respiratory tract infection (colds), sinusitis (inflammation 
of the sinuses), nausea (feeling sick), abdominal pain (stomach ache), infusion-related reactions and 
pain. Some side effects, including infections, may be more common in children than in adults. For the 
full list of side effects of Remicade, see the package leaflet. 
Remicade must not be used in patients who have experienced hypersensitivity (allergy) to infliximab in 
the past, or who are hypersensitive (allergic) to mouse proteins or any of the other ingredients of 
Remicade. Remicade must not be used in patients with tuberculosis, other severe infections, or 
moderate or severe heart failure (an inability of the heart to pump enough blood around the body). 
Why is Remicade authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Remicade’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Remicade? 
Patients who receive Remicade must be given a special reminder card. The card will include safety 
information about the medicine and a record of the dates and results of specific tests that the patient 
has had so these can be shared with any treating doctor. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Remicade have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Remicade are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Remicade are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Remicade 
Remicade received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 August 1999. 
Further information on Remicade can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Remicade.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Remicade (infliximab)  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
