London, 27 July 2005 
Product name: REMICADE 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/240/II/61 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Introduction 
Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine IgG1κ monoclonal antibody, which binds to both soluble and 
transmembrane forms of the human tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α and inhibits the functional activity 
of TNFα.  
Remicade (infliximab) is  currently  approved  for the  treatment of  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA), Crohn’s 
disease (CD) and ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and psoriatic arthritis (PsA). 
Psoriasis  vulgaris  is  a  common,  immunologically  mediated  disorder  of  the  skin,  characterized  by  a 
relapsing-remitting  clinical  course  of  elevated,  erythematous,  scaling  plaques  of  the  skin,  affecting 
approximately 2% of the population. Psoriasis is  not a life-threatening disease, but in relation to the 
extent  and  location  of  the  plaques  can  lead  to  serious  social  and  psychological  impairment.  The 
disease affects both women and  men  in an  equal  manner, and  is  mostly diagnosed  already at young 
age. 
TNFα is considered a key player in physiological and pathophysiological inflammatory processes. In 
some autoimmune diseases, the molecule was found to be a major contributor to inflammation. Since 
elevated  TNFα  levels  were  found  in  psoriatic  skin  lesions  capable  of  mediating  keratinocyte 
proliferation, and increased serum levels were correlated with disease activity, there is a rationale for 
evaluation of treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis with infliximab.  
The MAH proposed to extend the indication for Remicade in the treatment of patients with psoriasis in 
patients  with  moderate  to  severe  plaque  psoriasis  for  whom  phototherapy  or  conventional  systemic 
treatments have been inadequate or are inappropriate. 
The MAH proposed to amend the text of the SPC, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1, and to update the 
PL accordingly.  
2 
Clinical aspects 
To  support  the  new  indication  “Psoriasis”,  the  MAH  submitted  2  clinical  studies  (EXPRESS  and 
SPIRIT) for the evaluation of efficacy and safety of infliximab monotherapy in patients with moderate 
to severe plaque-type psoriasis. 
•  Study  C0168T38  (EXPRESS):  Phase  III  study,  “European  Infliximab  for  Psoriasis 
(Remicade) Efficacy and Safety Study” 
•  Study  C0168T31  (SPIRIT):  Phase  II  study,  “Study  of  Psoriasis  with  Infliximab  (Remicade) 
Induction Therapy” 
The MAH submitted also the clinical study IMPACT 2 (in PsA), which had already been submitted in 
a previous application.  
2.1 Clinical Pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics (PK) analyses were performed in both studies. The serum half-life in SPIRIT for 5 
mg/kg  was  9.1  days.  This  parameter  was  not  evaluated  in  EXPRESS,  but  serum  concentrations  at 
respective  timepoints  were  similar  in  both  studies.  There  was  no  evidence  of  accumulation  of 
infliximab concentration over time during maintenance therapy in the EXPRESS study.  
The  PK  was  comparable  in  patients  with  psoriasis  and  PsA,  reaching  higher  pre-infusion  serum 
concentrations  than  in  patients  with  RA  or  CD.  The  CHMP  requested  further  discussion  of  this 
finding.  The  MAH  submitted  data  that  suggest  that  over  time  pre  infusion  levels  were  becoming 
similar  to  those  evaluated  in  other  populations,  and  that  maintaining  detectable  pre-infusion  serum 
levels were associated with clinical response.  
2/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 Clinical efficacy 
Study C0168T38 (EXPRESS) 
EXPRESS was a phase 3, double blind, placebo-controlled trial in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis 
in 378 subjects, candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy. An induction regimen of infliximab 
5  mg/kg  infusions  at  Weeks  0,  2,  and  6  was  followed  by  maintenance  treatment  (every  8  weeks) 
through Week 46.  
The  application  included  50-week  safety  and  efficacy  data  from  the  EXPRESS  study  as well  as  66-
week antibody data as a separate report. 
Methods 
Study participants 
Adult  patients  with  a  diagnosis  of  plaque-type  psoriasis  for  at  least  6  months  were  included  in  this 
trial. Concerning severity, patients were required to have a baseline PASI score ≥ 12 and a baseline 
body surface area (BSA) involvement ≥ 10% (moderate to severe plaque-type psoriasis). Patients must 
have  been  candidates  for  phototherapy  or  systemic  therapy,  but  were  not  necessarily  required  to  be 
pre-treated.  
The majority of the patients were men, 70.9% and median age was 42 years.  
In EXPRESS, 98.4% of subjects had previously used topical agents, 66.4% of subjects had used UVB, 
43.1% had used PUVA (phototherapy combining psoralens and ultraviolet light A), 42.6% had used 
methotrexate (MTX), 29.2% had used acitretin, and 30.4% had used cyclosporin. 
Overall,  43.1%  of  subjects  had  previous  treatment  with  ≥2  systemic  agents  (including  MTX, 
cyclosporin, acitretin, and PUVA), 23.0% of subjects had previous treatment with ≥ 3 systemic agents, 
and  7.7%  of  subjects  had  previous  treatment  with  ≥  4  systemic  agents.  Eighteen  percent  of  subjects 
had used at least 1 systemic agent systemic agent for ≥ 3 years. 
At baseline, 16.4% of subjects had previously been treated with biologics.  
The  inclusion  criteria  were  considered  acceptable  and  adequate  to  recruit  the  addressed  patient 
population  of  moderate  to  severe  plaque-type  psoriasis  in  a  second-line  therapy  setting.  The  CHMP 
requested supplementary information on  the  fact  that the present studies  did  not specifically address 
adult patients "who failed to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other 
systemic therapy including cyclosporine, MTX or PUVA". The MAH justified that subjects’ psoriasis 
medication  history  was  collected  and  analysed,  however  the  data  on  the  response  to  the  previous 
psoriasis medication were not collected. This was agreed with and reflected in the SPC.  
Treatments 
Patients were randomised in a 4:1 ratio, stratified by investigational site, to two groups: 
Group 1 (infliximab arm):  
(n=301) 
Infliximab 5mg/kg at weeks 0, 2, and 6 (induction phase), followed by  
Infliximab 5mg/kg every 8 weeks through week 46 (maintenance phase). 
Placebo infusions were given at weeks 24 and 26 to maintain the blind 
Group 2 (placebo cross-over arm): 
(n=77) 
Placebo at weeks 0, 2, and 6, followed by 
Placebo every 8 weeks through week 22 (placebo maintenance phase), 
cross-over to infliximab 5mg/kg at weeks 24, 26, and 30 (induction phase), 
followed by infliximab 5mg/kg maintenance therapy every 8 weeks through 
week 46 
During  the  first  10  weeks  all  topical  corticosteroids  were  prohibited,  thereafter  low-potent  topical 
steroids were allowed in face/groin (max. 30 g/week). Other steroids (except inhalations, otic, ocular 
3/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or  nasal),  phototherapy  or  any  systemic  therapy  were  not  permitted  during  the  first  50  weeks. 
Intraarticular injections in no more than 2 sites were allowed.  
Evaluations and blood sampling were performed at weeks 0, 2, 6, 10, 14, 22, 24, 26, 30, 38, 46, 50 and 
66. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of subjects achieving ≥ 75% improvement in PASI 
(referred to as PASI 75) from baseline at week 10. 
Major secondary endpoints were: 
•  PASI ≥ 75% from baseline at week 24 
•  Change in DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index) from baseline to week 10 and week 24 
•  The proportion of subjects achieving a PGA (Physicians global assessment of improvement) 
score of cleared (0) or minimal (1) at week 10 
Further to these, other efficacy measures were employed; both measured at week 10 and 24: 
•  PASI ≥ 50%, representing “clinically meaningful response” 
•  PASI  ≥  90%,  representing  “significant”  or  “marked”  response,  also  referred  to  as  “clear  or 
almost clear” 
•  NAPSI (Nail Psoriasis Severity Index) 
•  SF-36 (36-item Short Form Health Survey) 
Results 
Efficacy results 
The following table shows the proportion of subjects achieving PASI 75 over time in the respective 
groups. In the placebo group the switch over to infliximab at week 24 should be noted. 
4/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary of PASI response through Week 50 by visit; randomized subjects 
Subjects randomized 
Week 2 
           n 
           ≥ 90% improvement 
           ≥ 75% improvement 
           ≥ 50% improvement 
Week 6 
           n 
           ≥ 90% improvement 
           ≥ 75% improvement 
           ≥ 50% improvement 
Week 10 
           n 
           ≥ 90% improvement 
           ≥ 75% improvement 
           ≥ 50% improvement 
Week 24 
           n 
           ≥ 90% improvement 
           ≥ 75% improvement 
           ≥ 50% improvement 
Week 50 
           n 
           ≥ 90% improvement 
           ≥ 75% improvement 
           ≥ 50% improvement 
Placebo → Infliximab 
5mg/kg (at Week 24) 
77 
Infliximab 5mg/kg  
301 
77 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (3.9%) 
77 
1 (1.3%) 
4 (5.2%) 
6 (7.8%) 
77 
1 (1.3%) 
2 (2.6%) 
6 (7.8%) 
77 
1 (1.3%) 
3 (3.9%) 
5 (6.5%) 
68 
34 (50.0%) 
52 (76.5%) 
61 (89.7%) 
298 
3 (1.0%) 
16 (5.4%) 
106 (35.6%) 
295 
94 (31.9%) 
184 (62.4%) 
264 (89.5%) 
301 
172 (57.1%) 
242 (80.4%) 
274 (91.0%) 
276 
161 (58.3%) 
227 (82.2%) 
248 (89.9%) 
281 
127 (45.2%) 
170 (60.5%) 
193 (68.7%) 
Serum infliximab concentrations and correlation with psoriasis area and severity index: 
Serum concentration was correlated to disease activity, where response was defined as ≥ PASI 75%. 
At week 10, the proportions of patients achieving PASI 75 were similar (78%-89%) in all detectable 
concentration ranges but lower (44%) in subjects with undetectable levels (below 0.1 µg/ml). At week 
24, the proportion of patients with PASI 75 was lower (64%) in the undetectable group than in groups 
with detectable concentrations. At week 50, 82%-88% of patients with concentrations above 1 µg/ml 
had PASI 75 but the percentage of PASI 75 responders was decreased at <0.1 µg/ml and 0.1 - 1 µg/ml 
concentrations (29% and 50% respectively). 
Subjects  losing  response  seemed  to  clear  infliximab  more  rapidly,  which  was  indicated  by  median 
preinfusions-infliximab concentrations below the ‘lower limit of detection’.  
Physician´s Global assessment (PGA) (in EXPRESS) 
At week 50, PGA cleared/minimal was reached by 53% of the infliximab 5 mg/kg group and by 68% 
of  placebo/infliximab.  The  timepoint  with  the  highest  percentage  of  clear/minimal  response  was  at 
week 10 in the infliximab group, with 82.9% reaching PGA cleared/minimal. 
Nail psoriasis (NAPSI score) 
At week 24, the NAPSI score improvement from baseline was 2 in the infliximab group and 0 in the 
placebo group. 
Dermatology life quality index ((DLQI) 
Significant differences were seen between the infliximab and placebo groups at Weeks 10 and 24. At 
Week 24, the infliximab group had a -9.0 median improvement from baseline in DLQI score versus no 
median  change  in  the  placebo  group.  At  Week  50,  both  treatment  groups  showed  a  similar  median 
improvement from baseline in DLQI (-7.0 in the placebo/infliximab group and -6.0 in the infliximab 
5/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group). This however represents a drop in the  median DLQI score from Week 24 for the infliximab 
group. This was considered most likely driven by the proportion of subjects who lost responder status 
(defined by PASI improvement).  
SF-36 
The infliximab group showed a significant (median 3.9 and 3.4) improvement from baseline in the SF-
36 physical component score in comparison with the placebo group at Weeks 10 and 24.  
At Week 50, both the placebo/infliximab and infliximab groups showed a median improvement from 
baseline in the SF-36 physical component score, with a change of 1.8 in the placebo/infliximab group 
and 0.7 in the infliximab group. This is a median decrease from Week 24 for the infliximab group. 
At Week 50, both the placebo/infliximab and infliximab groups showed a median improvement from 
baseline in the mental component of the SF-36, with a median change of 1.0 in the placebo/infliximab 
group and 1.5 in the infliximab group. This was a decrease from Week 24 for the infliximab group. 
Conclusion on efficacy 
The CHMP considered that efficacy in the short-term seems excellent. In EXPRESS, there was a trend 
towards a decrease in efficacy from week 24 to week 50 in a small proportion of subjects who initially 
responded.. The identified lowering of serum concentrations of infliximab, development of antibodies 
and decrease in effect are of concern in maintenance therapy with infliximab.  
Study C0168T31 (SPIRIT) 
SPIRIT  was  a  phase  2,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled  trial  evaluating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
infliximab induction therapy in patients with plaque-type psoriasis (249 subjects with severe psoriasis) 
who had previously received PUVA or other systemic therapy. An induction regimen of infliximab 3 
mg/kg or 5 mg/kg infusions at Weeks 0, 2, 6, was followed by the possibility of retreatment with the 
same dose at Week 26. The SPIRIT study was complete and included 30 weeks of safety and efficacy 
data  and  a  final  HACA  (Human  Antichimeric  Antibodies)  evaluation  at  week  46.  Efficacy  data 
through Week 30 was previously submitted in support of the PsA type 2 variation. 
Methods 
Study participants 
The study participants were adults suffering from plaque-type psoriasis for at least 6 months. SPIRIT 
required  that  the  patients  were  already  pre-treated  with  systemic  therapy  or  PUVA.  In  addition, 
subjects were required to  have a baseline PASI score  ≥ 12 and a BSA involvement  of at least  10%. 
The  inclusion  criteria  were  considered  acceptable  and  adequate  to  recruit  the  addressed  patient 
population of moderate to severe plaque-type psoriasis in a second-line therapy setting. 
The majority of patients were male (69.9%), in median 44.0 years old.  
Treatment  
Patients were randomised in a 2:2:1 ratio to three groups: 
Group 1: 
(n=99) 
Group 2: 
(n=99) 
Group 3: 
(n=51) 
 Infliximab 3mg/kg at weeks 0, 2, and 6 (induction therapy only) 
At  week  26,  subjects  with  a  PGA  score  of  ≥  3  were  retreated  with  a  single 
infusion of infliximab 3mg/kg 
 Infliximab 5mg/kg at weeks 0, 2, and 6 (induction therapy only) 
At  week  26,  subjects  with  a  PGA  score  of  ≥  3  were  retreated  with  a  single 
infusion of infliximab 5mg/kg 
Placebo infusions at weeks 0, 2, and 6 
At  week  26,  subjects  with  a  PGA  score  of  ≥  3  were  retreated  with  a  single 
infusion of placebo 
6/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of subjects achieving ≥ PASI 75 improvement from 
baseline at week 10. 
Major secondary endpoints were: 
•  The proportion of patients positive for HACA 
•  The proportion of patients with infusion reactions at week 26 
•  The proportion of patients with an infusion reaction at week 26 by HACA status at week 26 
•  PASI ≥ 75% from baseline at week 26 
Further to these, other efficacy measures were employed; both measured at weeks 10 and 26: 
•  PASI ≥ 50%, representing “clinically meaningful response” 
•  PASI  ≥  90%,  representing  “significant”  or  “marked”  response,  also  referred  to  as  “clear  or 
almost clear” 
Results 
Efficacy results 
Efficacy  results  are  presented  in  the  table  below  and  further  addressed  in  the  discussion  on  clinical 
efficacy. 
7/16 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. 
Relapse in SPIRIT. 
Relapse was defined as having a >50% loss of the improvement seen in PASI between baseline and 
week 10 at a visit subsequent to week 10.  
The proportion of PASI responders at week 10 who relapsed at or before week 26 was slightly greater 
among  subjects in the 3  mg/kg infliximab  group (34/70,  48.6%)  compared to that  observed in  the  5 
mg/kg group (33/83, 39.8%).  
The median time to relapse among subjects in each infliximab group was > 16 weeks from week 10.  
For the subset of subjects who were retreated at week 26 (11 subjects in the placebo group, 52 subjects 
in  the  3  mg/kg  group,  and  51  subjects  in  the  5  mg/kg  group),  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  were 
8/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PASI responders at week 30 was 23.1% in the infliximab 3 mg/kg group, 34.0% in the infliximab 5 
mg/kg group, and 18.2% in the placebo group. These results indicate that the majority of subjects who 
lost response were not able to regain response in 4 weeks after one single infusion. No rebound was 
observed. 
This limited experience from retreatment after an induction regimen with one single infliximab dose 
after  an  interval  of  20  weeks  suggests  reduced  efficacy.  The  study  protocol  was  not  designed  to 
evaluate the meaning of this finding as no further infliximab dose was administered after week 26.   
Clinical efficacy across trials  
Subgroup analyses:  
In  both  EXPRESS  and  SRIRIT,  PASI  response  was  consistent  across  PASI  and  BSA  subgroups  
indicating similar efficacy in both moderate and severe psoriasis. Additionally, the PASI response was 
consistent  in  EXPRESS  across  previous  systemic  agent  subgroups  supporting  infliximab  as  being 
efficacious in those who may have been intolerant to or resistant to other medications. 
Onset of efficacy: 
As seen in tables 1 and 2, onset of response was rapid. For instance, nearly two-thirds of the 5 mg/kg 
group in each study achieved > 75% improvement in PASI at Week 6.  
Maintenance of efficacy:  
Maintenance of efficacy in an induction/maintenance regimen 
In EXPRESS, 82.2% of subjects in the infliximab group achieved > 75% improvement in PASI from 
baseline  at  Week  24  and    60.5%  at  Week 50.  When  subjects  were  evaluated  using  a  per-protocol 
analysis,  which  primarily removed data  after  subjects discontinued study infusions for  reasons  other 
than  unsatisfactory  therapeutic  effect  or  missed  at  least  2  study  infusions,  70.5%  of  subjects  in  the 
infliximab group achieved ≥ 75% improvement in PASI from baseline at Week 50. When considering 
only  subjects  who  responded  at  Week 10  (i.e.,  achieved  the  primary  endpoint),  65.1%  of  infliximab 
subjects maintained ≥ 75% improvement in PASI from baseline at Week 50.  
In EXPRESS, a loss of response (< 75% improvement in PASI from baseline) was observed in a small 
proportion  of  subjects  who  initially  responded.  Serum  infliximab  levels  and  antibody  to  infliximab 
status were examined to assess any relationships to efficacy.  
Supportive studies  
Study C0168T50 (IMPACT 2) 
IMPACT  2  had  already  been  submitted  in  a  previous  application.  This  trial  was  a  multicentre, 
randomised,  double  blind  trial  in  200  patients  with  active,  polyarticular  PsA  who  had  inadequate 
response to current or previous therapies. All patients also had concomitant active psoriasis.  The data 
submitted  included  week  24  data.  Infliximab  was  administered  as  5 mg/kg  at  weeks  0,  2  and  6 
followed  by  every  8-week  maintenance,  including  a  subset  of  patients  in  the  infliximab  arm  where 
dose  was  escalated  to  10 mg/kg.  Nearly  half  of  the  patients  were  treated  with  MTX  at  baseline. 
Median BSA was 10.0% (range 3.0% to 91.0%). The median PASI at baseline was 6.6. 
The degree of psoriasis was considerably more variable than in EXPRESS and SPIRIT. 
The primary endpoint, the proportion of patients who reached an ACR 20 response (American College 
of Rheumatology) of PsA, demonstrated significant improvements in favour of infliximab. Concerning 
improvement of psoriatic skin lesions, efficacy was demonstrated in a subset of patients with at least 
3% BSA involvement (85.9%). The efficacy of infliximab showed an extent comparable to EXPRESS 
9/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and SPIRIT with an early onset. However, these data are considered supportive only, since the severity 
of psoriasis was markedly heterogeneous. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The baseline characteristics were comparable across the EXPRESS and SPIRIT studies and across the 
treatment arms and balanced with regard to demographic, baseline and disease characteristics. 
These  baseline  data  enable  for  an  assessment  of  infliximab  efficacy  and  safety  in  a  clinically 
meaningful target population for an anti-TNF agent, i.e. after failure of previous therapies. 
The primary endpoint was reached by 80.4% (EXPRESS) and 87.9% (SPIRIT) of infliximab-treated 
patients  as  compared  to  2.6%  and  5.9%  in  the  respective  placebo  groups,  which  reflects  a  profound 
and clinically meaningful efficacy of this treatment.  
The clinical efficacy was also consistently demonstrated for the secondary outcome measures. Of note, 
a profound clinical efficacy, reflected by a PASI response of ≥90%  and a PGA of cleared or minimal, 
was  apparent  by  a  considerable  number  of  patients.  Also  nail  psoriasis  was  improved,  although  the 
NAPSI  score  represents  a  score  where  no  accepted  definition  of  a  clinically  relevant  improvement 
exists so far. The improvement of the quality of life parameters was considered supportive evidence of 
efficacy. 
The  onset  of  efficacy  for  the  key  efficacy  variables  (PASI,  PGA)  was  rapid.  After  two  infusions 
(5 mg/kg),  approximately  two-thirds  achieved  a  PASI  75  response  and  approximately  one-third 
reached a “marked” response (PASI 90). 
Some subjects had a late onset of efficacy. 16 subjects achieved only a PASI improvement of less than 
50% at week 10 (i.e. they failed to reach the primary endpoint), but three patients reached a PASI 75 at 
week 24. Subjects who achieved already a PASI improvement between 50 and 75% at week 10 were 
more likely to achieve responder status at week 24 (20/30 patients, 66.7%).  
The  CHMP  requested  adequate  definitions  on  non-responders,  and  how  long  they  should  be  treated 
before infliximab is to be discontinued due to inefficacy. The MAH submitted a clarification, namely 
to amend the wording of the SPC, and the wording was considered adequate.  
A tapering of efficacy from 80% PASI 75 at week 10-24 to 60% at week 46 was found. The reduced 
effect over time was discussed by the MAH and low serum levels together with impairment of efficacy 
might be due to antibody formation. The CHMP considered that further data on long-term efficacy and 
safety would be of value. 
2.3 Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure 
The  safety  analysis  includes  50-week  data  from  the  EXPRESS  study  and  30  week  data  from  the 
SPIRIT  study,  complemented  by  24-week  data  from  IMPACT  2  (PsA).  For  EXPRESS,  66-week 
HACA data were available in a separate report. 
In the EXPRESS study, through week 50, 375 received at least one dose of study agent and a total of 
366 subjects received at least one dose of infliximab. Through week 50, the infliximab group had an 
average follow-up of 48.7 weeks.  
In total (EXPRESS, SPIRIT, IMPACT 2), 615 patients were exposed to at least one dose of 5 mg/kg 
and 98 patients exposed to at least one dose of 3 mg/kg. 
Safety  evaluations  were  based  on  subjects  who  were  randomly  assigned  and  received  at  least  1 
infusion (full or partial) and were summarized by actual treatment received. Two types of summaries 
were provided, through Week 24 and Week 50.  
10/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cumulatively, 576,000 patients have been exposed to infliximab for a total of 1,347,000 person-years 
elapsed since first exposure. 
Adverse events 
Serious adverse events, deaths and malignancies 
(a) Serious adverse events (SAE) 
In the placebo-controlled period of the EXPRESS trial (i.e. through week 24), 17 (5.7%) subjects in 
the  infliximab  5  mg/kg  group  experienced  at  least  1  SAE,  compared  to  2  (2.6%)  subjects  in  the 
placebo group, the SAE in these placebo cases being psoriasis. Through week 50, 22 patients (one in 
the  placebo  group,  two  in  the  infliximab  group  after  cross-over,  and  19  in  the  infliximab  group) 
reported SAEs that were reasonably related to study drug, the most common being abscess (n=3).  
In SPIRIT, a total of 12 patients (6.1%) reported SAEs through week 30, including 4 patients in the 
3 mg/kg  group  and  8  patients  in  the  5 mg/kg  group.  4  of  these  12  patients  reported  SAEs  that  were 
considered 
the  skin, 
cholecystitis/cholelithiasis,  diverticulitis,  sepsis/pyelonephritis.  Other  SAEs  included  basal  cell 
carcinoma, brain haemorrhage, and others. 
study  drug:  squamous  cell  carcinoma  of 
reasonably 
related 
to 
(b) Deaths 
One death occurred in the EXPRESS trial. It was a 47-year old caucasian male patient with a 9-year 
history of psoriasis  who died due to bacterial sepsis  and cardiac arrest following necrotizing  fascitis 
involving  the  right  neck  with  Streptococcal  group  A  infection.  According  to  the  investigator,  the 
cardiac arrest and sepsis had an unlikely relationship to study agent, and the necrotizing fascitis was 
considered not related to study agent. 
(c) Malignancies 
In  EXPRESS,  malignancy  occurred  in  6  patients  through  week  50.  Five  of  these  patients  received 
prior  PUVA  and/or  narrow  band  ultraviolet  light  B  (UVB)  therapy  for  psoriasis,  4  of  them  for  over 
one year. The malignancies were characterized as follows: 
1.  squamous  cell  carcinoma  of  the  lower  lip  at  week  24,  (placebo/infliximab  group,  i.e.  before 
cross-over to infliximab) 
2.  Basal cell carcinoma on the tip of the nose (week 50, infliximab group) 
3.  Bowenoid  keratosis  actinica  (squamous  cell  carcinoma  in  situ)  on  the  left  thigh,  week  6 
(infliximab group) 
4.  Spinocellular carcinoma on the right lower leg, week 6 (infliximab group) 
5.  Basal  cell  carcinoma  on  the  forehead  at  approximately  week  6  and  a  basal  carcinoma  on  the 
left side of the nose at week 24 (inflximab group, discontinued from week 14) 
6.  Bowenoid papulosis, week 38 (coded as squamous cell carcinoma, benign lesion), infliximab 
group. 
In SPIRIT, through week 30, 3 (1.5%) subjects had a malignancy, with two of the patients having been 
pre-treated  with  previous  PUVA  and/or  UVB  therapy.  Two  patients  developed  a  squamous  cell 
carcinoma  of  the  skin  2  to  3  weeks  after  the  Week  6  infusion  of  3mg/kg  infliximab.  One  subject 
discontinued from the study due to the event. The third patient developed a basal cell carcinoma of the 
skin approximately 5 weeks after the Week 26 infusion of 5mg/kg infliximab. 
Specifically,  2  of  3  subjects  in  SPIRIT  and  4  of  6  subjects  in  EXPRESS  were  diagnosed  with  skin 
malignancy in the course of infliximab therapy.  
In both studies, no patients in either placebo group developed a malignancy. 
No cases of lymphoma were reported for both studies. 
11/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specific adverse events  
Infections 
In the EXPRESS study, through Week 24 a similar proportion of subjects reported infections (39.5% 
of the placebo and 41.9% of the infliximab group). Through Week 50, 65.8% in the infliximab groups 
reported  infections,  which  was  a  higher  proportion  of  patients  than  in  the  first  half  of  the  study,  as 
compared  to  39.7%  in  the  placebo/infliximab  group  through  week  50.  Most  commonly  reported 
infection was upper respiratory tract infection (URI, 28.9% through week 50). Infectious events that 
were at higher incidence in the second half of the study (weeks 25 to 50) were pharyngitis (8.4%), flu 
syndrome (7.4%), and herpes simplex (5.4%). 
In  SPIRIT,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  one  or  more  infections  was  greater  in  both  infliximab 
groups than in the  placebo  group  (31.6% and 37.4% versus  21.6%).  With the exception  of sinusitis, 
infections  generally  occurred  at  comparable  incidence  in  both  infliximab  groups.  Again,  most 
frequently reported infection was URI. 
a) Serious infections 
In EXPRESS, 8 serious infections were reported through week 50, 3 of which occurred before week 
24.  Most  common  was  abscess  (n=4,  1.3%),  3  of  them  being  perianal  abscesses  (two  treated  by 
incision, one treated with systemic antibiotics). Study drug was not discontinued. The fourth abscess 
was  a  throat  abscess.  The  other  four  serious  infections  were  fasciitis  and  sepsis,  appendicitis  with 
subumbilical wound infections, neuroborreliosis, and bronchitis. 
In SPIRIT, one patient had a serious infection (pyelonephritis), followed by sepsis, probably related to 
infliximab. He was hospitalized, and the event resolved after treatment. 
b) Opportunistic infections 
In EXPRESS, 9 patients were reported of having experienced a potential opportunistic infection, all of 
them  occurring  while  being  on  treatment  with  infliximab.  These  consisted  of  herpes  zoster  (n=2), 
candida  infections  (n=4),  oral  candida  infections  (n=2),  esophageal  candidiasis  (n=1),  and  intestinal 
candida (n=1). Two patients had genital fungal infections, and one subject reported a possible fungal 
infection of the feet. Of these 9 events, 4 were resolved, 5 were ongoing as of the last follow-up visit.  
In SPIRIT no case of opportunistic infection was reported. 
c) Tuberculosis 
No cases of active tuberculosis were observed in either study. 
Infusion reactions 
An infusion reaction was defined in both studies as any AE occurring during an infusion or within one 
hour after the completion of an infusion. In EXPRESS, the incidence of infusion reactions was 2.0% 
in  the  placebo  group  (347  infusions)  vs.  2.7%  in  the  infliximab  group  through  week  24  (1416 
infusions);  for  the  subjects  having  crossed  to  infliximab  from  the  placebo  group,  the  incidence  was 
3.6% (334 infusions). Total incidence of infusion reactions through week 50 in the infliximab group 
was 2.1% (2652 infusions). The majority of the reactions were mild or moderate. 
In SPIRIT, the occurrence of infusion reactions was comparable between both dosage groups (3mg/kg: 
5.2%, 288 infusions, 5mg/kg: 6.5%, 292 infusions), but higher than in the placebo group (0.7%, 136 
infusions). 
12/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a) Serious infusion reactions 
Four  patients  in  the  EXPRESS  study  had  serious  infusion  reactions  The  rate  of  serious  infusion 
reactions  (1.1%  in  EXPRESS)  was  consistent  with  the  rate  across  other  infliximab  studies.  In 
EXPRESS, one patient in the placebo/infliximab group (1.3%) and 8 patients (2.7%) in the infliximab 
group permanently discontinued the drug due to an infusion reaction. In SPIRIT, two (2.0%) patients 
in the infliximab 3mg/kg group permanently discontinued study infusions due to an infusion reaction. 
b) Infusion reactions following re-treatment (SPIRIT study) 
The  infusion  reaction  rate  for  the  5mg/kg  infliximab  group  was  higher  at  the  Week  26  re-treatment 
than for the 3 mg/kg infliximab group and higher than the rate observed in this group through Week 6. 
The infusion reaction rate for the 5mg/kg infliximab group was 13.7% at Week 26, compared to 6.5% 
through  Week  6.  The  infusion  reaction  rate  for  3mg/kg  infliximab  group  at  Week  26  (7.7%)  was 
similar to the rate in this group through Week 6 (5.2%). 
For the 11 placebo subjects who received a single placebo infusion at Week 26, none experienced an 
infusion reaction. 
Anaphylactic and delayed hypersensitivity 
There were 4 reports of delayed hypersensitivity in the EXPRESS and 3 reports in the SPIRIT trial, 
respectively. 
One patient in the EXPRESS study experienced a moderate anaphylactic reaction during the week 30 
infusion. The study drug was permanently discontinued. 
No patient in the SPIRIT trial was reported with an anaphylactic reaction. 
Immunological events 
In the EXPRESS study, four cases of autoimmune disease occurred through 50 weeks. Three patients 
experienced  lupus-like  syndrome,  primarily  manifesting  as  arthritis  associated  with  development  of 
ANA and anti-dsDNA antibodies. In one patient, Sjögren’s syndrome was diagnosed. All symptoms 
improved with treatment or with discontinuation of infliximab. 
No case of autoimmunity was observed in the SPIRIT study. 
No case of CNS demyelination was seen in either study. 
One  of  the  patients  with  lupus-like  syndrome  had  concomitant  chronic  hepatitis,  being  treated  with 
oral prednisone for suspected autoimmune hepatitis. 
The occurrence of newly positive antinuclear antibodies (ANA, defined as titre ≥1:40) was 37.3% in 
the infliximab group, compared to 1.5% in the placebo group, in the EXPRESS trial. Also in SPIRIT, 
a markedly higher incidence of ANA was measured in the infliximab groups as compared to placebo 
(22.9% in the 3mg/kg group, 25.0% in the 5mg/kg group versus 2.3% in the placebo group). 
The incidence of newly positive anti-dsDNA antibodies was 17.0% in the infliximab/infliximab group, 
12.3% in the placebo/infliximab group vs. 0% in the placebo group before switching to infliximab in 
the EXPRESS study. In the SPIRIT study, incidences were 3.3%/4.3% for infliximab groups vs. 2.1% 
of subjects in the placebo group. 
Antibodies to infliximab 
In  both  SPIRIT  and  EXPRESS  trial  efficacy  was  correlated  with  the  serum  concentrations  of 
infliximab in a subset of patients. Serum concentrations below 1µg/ml in the SPIRIT trial were related 
to declining efficacy. Also, in EXPRESS, the proportion of patients with a PASI 75 improvement was 
reduced  when  pre-infusion  levels  fell  below  the  1µg/ml  level.  It  was  concluded  that  subjects  losing 
response cleared infliximab more rapidly. However, there were exceptions to this, since some patients 
lost response despite adequate serum levels and, vice versa. 
13/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP noted that serum concentration levels above 1 µg/ml seemed to be clinically important to 
achieve. The MAH was requested to further consider if the monitoring of serum levels was of value. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  clinical  evaluation  of  the  individual  patient  is  supported,  but  long-term 
strategies are needed. However, serum levels and antibody status do not seem relevant as predictors of 
efficacy.  
HACA  positivity  was  associated  with  lower  median  serum  infliximab  concentrations  during  the 
maintenance phase and was generally associated with diminished maintenance of clinical response at 
week 50. 30/42 (71.4%) subjects who were HACA positive and were responders at Week 10 failed to 
maintain clinical response at Week 50; the majority had undetectable serum infliximab levels at Week 
46. However, there were also subjects who showed a loss of response through week 50 despite initial 
response who were HACA negative (19/31, 61.3%).  
In  the  EXPRESS  study,  the  majority  of  subjects  (62.4%)  were  inconclusive  for  antibodies  to 
infliximab through Week 50. The combined incidence of subjects positive for antibodies to infliximab 
through  Week  50  was  19.7%.  The  majority  of  subjects  presented  with  titres  of  <  1:40.  This  was 
consistent with the incidence of antibodies to infliximab observed in SPIRIT. 
There was an approximate 1.5-fold increase in the incidence of infusion reactions among antibody to 
infliximab positive subjects compared with subjects negative for antibodies. The majority of infusion 
reactions  were  of  mild  to  moderate  intensity.  The  incidence  of  serious  or  possible  delayed  type 
hypersensitivity  reactions  was  comparable  between  antibody  to  infliximab  positive  and  negative 
subjects. 
The  CHMP  requested  further  clarification  on  the  possible  relationship  between  antibody  and 
infliximab concentrations. The MAH provided the requested justification. Antibody positivity seems 
to  be  correlated  to  lower  serum  levels.  Patients  inconclusive  to  antibodies  seem  to  maintain  higher 
serum  levels  of  infliximab  in  a  higher  degree  than  those  who  are  negative,  making  it  plausible  that 
inconclusive most often indicate "no antibodies". The definition of "inconclusive" (measurable serum 
levels  and  negative  for  antibodies)  in  contrast  to  "negative"  (low  serum  levels  and  no  antibodies) 
makes this interpretation possible. The explanation for why antibody negative patients have low serum 
levels is more difficult to understand. This group of patients might be those who would benefit from 
dose  escalation.  Antibody  positive  patients  might  benefit  from  combination  therapy  with  e.g.  MTX. 
The issue was considered resolved.  
In  the  SPIRIT  study,  the  subjects  in  the  3mg/kg  infliximab  group  that  were  antibody  positive  had  a 
higher baseline PASI score at week 26 before re-treatment was initiated. This could be in line with a 
clinically  relevant  inhibitory  effect  of  anti-infliximab  antibodies.  The  longer-term  impact  of  this 
finding, e.g. if such loss of efficacy could be overcome by repeat dosing, is not known, as SPIRIT was 
not designed to evaluate this further. 
This finding raised concerns with regard to re-administration of infliximab after a longer time period 
in terms of safety, but also in terms of efficacy. Since it in the treatment of psoriasis might not in every 
case  be  justified  to  keep  a  permanent  maintenance  therapy,  infliximab  might  in  some  patients  be 
discontinued after a sustained clinical remission.  
Additionally,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  high  incidence  of  HACA  is  still  of  concern  and  that 
higher  rates  were  observed  in  psoriasis.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  recommended  that  the  SPC  should 
reflect these findings. The MAH agreed with the CHMP proposal.  
Discontinuations due to AES 
In EXPRESS, 5 patients in the placebo group (6.6%) and 27 patients (9.1%) in the infliximab groups 
discontinued due to one or more AEs (through week 24). Among patients in the placebo group, most 
common was psoriasis (5.3%), among infliximab-treated patients increased liver enzymes (1.3%), the 
latter  being  a  pre-defined  cause  for  planned  discontinuation  required  by  the  protocol.  One  (1.5%) 
patients  in  the  placebo/infliximab  group  and  8  (2.7%)  patients  in  the  infliximab  group  permanently 
discontinued  due  to  an  infusion  reaction.  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  through  50  were  similar  to 
those  reported  through  week  24,  being  13.8%  for  infliximab  from  week  0  to  50.  In  SPIRIT,  the 
14/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
incidence of  discontinuations  due  to  an  AE was not  increased in  patients receiving  a  higher  dose  of 
infliximab.  Through  week  26,  eleven  patients  permanently  discontinued  because  of  an  AE  (7  in  the 
infliximab  3mg/kg  group,  3  in  the  5mg/kg  group,  and  1  in  the  placebo  group).  These  AEs  affected 
various system-organ classes without a trend towards any specific AE.  
Laboratory findings and vital signs 
Clinically significant abnormal haematologic and serum chemistry values were rare, whilst elevation 
of  liver  enzymes,  predefined  as  <150  U/L  and  ≥  100%  increase  from  baseline  were  markedly 
abnormal.  Such  elevations  of  ALT/SGPT  (alanine  aminotransferase/  serum  glutamate  pyruvate 
transaminase) and AST/SGOT (aspartate aminotransferase/serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase) 
occurred  in  6.4%  and  2.0%  of  infliximab-treated  patients  in  the  placebo-controlled  period  of  the 
EXPRESS  study  ,  increasing  to  8.4%  in  the  infliximab  group  through  week  50.  Bilirubin  was  not 
markedly  elevated  in  either  of  these  subjects.  Approximately  one-third  of  the  patients  continued 
treatment, one-third was discontinued, and one third was temporarily suspended. The elevation of liver 
enzymes resolved in  all  but two  patients. No such elevations  of  liver  enzymes  were  observed in the 
placebo groups. There was no correlation between serum infliximab concentrations and abnormal liver 
function  tests,  although  patients  treated  with  infliximab  showed  a  higher  frequency  of  markedly 
abnormal  levels  of  liver  enzymes  in  comparison  to  placebo.  The  MAH  was  requested  to  further 
explain this and provided the necessary explanation.  
In SPIRIT, such findings were reported less frequently. 
Safety in special populations 
There  were  6  pregnancies  reported  during  the  EXPRESS  study,  whereof  3  were  unwanted  and 
electively  terminated.  One  normal  premature  boy  was  born  and  one  normal  in  full  time  (and  one 
unknown).  
Discussion on clinical safety 
In EXPRESS and SPIRIT no new safety signals were raised. 
Increased  ALT  levels  were  found  in  previous  studies  with  infliximab  in  PsA  and  ASIn  EXPRESS, 
elevated  enzyme  levels  were  found  in  8.5%  infliximab  treated  patients  through  week  50  but  in  0% 
with  placebo,  which  is  in  line  with  previous  findings.  However,  no  serious  hepatic  AE,  except  one 
with markedly elevated enzyme levels, were reported. 
Integrated safety analyses (as of June 2004) suggest disease-specific differences, since such elevated 
liver enzymes were more frequent in patients with AS and PsA than in patients with RA or CD. 
Data suggest that also psoriasis is accompanied with an increased risk for the development of elevated 
liver enzymes. This elevation of liver enzymes appears to be mainly a problem of continuous therapy 
with infliximab. 
Additional  events  in  EXPRESS  included  1  infliximab-treated  patient  with  a  single  episode  of 
decreased  neutrophils,  1 placebo/infliximab subject  with a single episode  of  decreased lymphocytes, 
and 11 infliximab subjects with decreased lymphocytes (5 subjects with more than 1 abnormal value). 
Anti-dsDNA was found in 9.9% at week 24 and in 17% through week 50 in the infliximab group (0% 
for placebo at week 24). 
15/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Overall Discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Efficacy  in  psoriasis  has  been  satisfactorily  shown  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  moderate  to 
severe plaque psoriasis,. The highest response rates were found approximately 10-26 weeks after start 
of treatment. A PASI75 response was reached in approximately 80% of the patients during this time 
period.  At  week  50    60%  of  patients  achieved  a  PASI  75  response.  Beyond  that  time-point,  no 
information is available on the duration of efficacy. Although loss of response is frequently associated 
with low serum concentrations and the presence of antibodies to infliximab, the correlation between 
these parameters appears uncertain. With the current knowledge, detailed recommendations on how to 
handle  a  patient  who  looses  response  with  time  cannot  be  given.  Moreover,  data  on  intermittent 
therapy  would  be  of  importance  in  the  treatment  of  psoriasis,  and  some  data  will  become  available 
later this year from EXPRESS II. 
Safety  in  patients  with  psoriasis  is  similar  to  previously  approved  indications  with  the  exception  of 
elevated hepatic enzyme levels. However, no alarming hepatic events or safety signals were reported 
in the studies in psoriasis and further monitoring of hepatic events should continue.  
In  common  with  the  already  approved  indications,  there  is  an  identified  risk  for  serious  infections, 
including  opportunistic  infections  and  TB.  Malignancies  continue  to  be  followed  as  well  as  other 
events of concern, as per normal PSUR procedures.  
Benefit/risk  is  in  favour  of  infliximab  as  monotherapy  for  the  indication  "  treatment  of  moderate  to 
severe  plaque psoriasis in adults who failed to respond to, or who have a  contraindication  to, or are 
intolerant to other systemic therapy including cyclosporine, MTX or PUVA".  
CONCLUSION 
The CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wordings to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  the  Package  Leaflet,  based  on  the 
observations and the appropriate conclusions. 
The CHMP adopted on 27 July 2005 an Opinion on a Type II variation to be made to the terms of the 
Community Marketing Authorisation. 
16/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
