European Medicines Agency 
London, 20 September 2007 
Product name: Remicade 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/240/II/95 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) < sector fax > 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine IgG1κ monoclonal antibody, which binds to both soluble and 
transmembrane forms of the human tumour necrosis factor (TNF)α and inhibits the functional activity 
of TNFα.  
Remicade (infliximab) is currently approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), adult and 
paediatric Crohn’s disease (CD), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), psoriasis and 
ulcerative colitis (UC). 
In  2003,  Remicade  was  approved  for  the  treatment  of  ankylosing  spondylitis,  with  the  following 
indication: Treatment of ankylosing spondylitis in patients who have severe axial symptoms, elevated 
serological  markers  of  inflammatory  activity  and  responded  inadequately  to  conventional  therapy. 
The approval was based on a small investigator-initiated study, where in total 70 subjects were treated 
for  54 weeks  (study  P01522).  As  a  condition  for  the  approval,  the  marketing  authorisation  holder 
(MAH)  agreed  on  a  follow  up  measure  (FUM  060),  namely  “Centocor  is  currently  conducting  a 
Phase 3  placebo  controlled  trial  of  two  years  duration  in  275  patients  with  severe  ankylosing 
spondylitis (C0168T51, ASSERT). The trial is actively enrolling and in addition to safety and efficacy 
will  include  pharmacokinetics,  immune  response,  MRI  and  radiological  data.  Centocor  commits  to 
submitting a clinical study report upon completion of the full 2 years of the trial by 4Q06 as part of a 
type II variation to expand the AS indication.”.  
Ankylosing  spondylitis  is  a  chronic  inflammatory  disease  of  unknown  aetiology.  It  involves  the 
sacroiliac  joints,  axial  skeleton,  entheses,  and  peripheral  joints.  Chronic  inflammation  of  entheses 
leads to new bone formation, syndesmophytes, and ankylosis of joints, primarily in the axial skeleton. 
It is this axial ankylosis that may lead to loss of range of motion and to disability. The disease may 
also  have  nonskeletal  manifestations,  including  uveitis,  carditis,  pulmonary  fibrosis,  and  cardiac 
conduction abnormalities. Considered a subset of the spondyloarthropathies, AS is associated with the 
presence  of  the  HLA1-B27  allele.  Although  patients  may  experience  a  variety  of  musculoskeletal 
symptoms  (arthralgias  and  morning  stiffness),  the  most  common  presenting  symptom  is  low-back 
pain.  The  low-back  pain  usually  begins  before  the  age  of  40,  is  insidious  in  onset,  associated  with 
morning  stiffness,  and  becomes  symmetrical.  These  musculoskeletal  symptoms  may  be  associated 
with constitutional symptoms, such as fatigue, fever, and weight loss.  
To  support  the  current  variation  application,  the  MAH  submitted  the  2  years  study  report  from 
ASSERT, to fulfil FUM 060, and applied for product information changes based on longer term data 
from both ASSERT and P01522. The MAH proposed to change sections 4.1 “Therapeutic indication”, 
4.8  “Undesirable  effects”  and  5.1 “Pharmacodynamics”  of  the  summary  of  product  characteristics 
(SPC). 
Clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics 
In  the  ASSERT2  study,  serum  samples  for  infliximab  concentrations  were  collected  prior  to  an 
infusion and 1 hour post infusion at each visit with an infliximab infusion.  
The  serum  infliximab  concentrations  were  consistent  with  the  dose  administration.  There  was  no 
evidence  of  accumulation  with  the  5  mg/kg  or  the  7.5  mg/kg  used.  Higher  through  levels  were 
achieved with the higher dose, to the extent expected.  
Subjects with undetectable preinfusion infliximab concentrations 
In general, a majority of the subjects maintained continuous exposure to infliximab when treated with 
either 5 mg/kg or 7.5 mg/kg infliximab every 6 weeks. A higher percentage of subjects who developed 
1 HLA-human leucocyte antigen 
2 For details on the study please see the clinical efficacy section below. 
Page 2 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
antibodies to infliximab in the 5 mg/kg-escalated to-7.5 mg/kg infliximab group may have contributed 
to the need for dose escalation for such subjects.  
From the data presented it was concluded that the higher occurrence of patients with anti-infliximab 
antibodies found among those patients with undetectable preinfusion serum infliximab concentrations 
is plausible and in line with previous findings. 
Relationship between serum infliximab concentration and ASAS 203 response 
The  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  an  ASAS  20  response  in  each  category  of  through  infliximab 
concentration was analysed to explore the relationship between infliximab concentration and clinical 
response. At week 24, a progressive increase in the proportion of subjects who achieved an ASAS 20 
response was noted with increasing serum infliximab concentrations. The proportion of subjects who 
achieved  an  ASAS  20  response  was  lowest  in  the  group  that  had  undetectable  serum  infliximab 
concentrations. Of note, in the category of subjects with lowest preinfusion infliximab concentration, 
6 of the 10 subjects were confirmed to have developed antibodies to infliximab by week 24. 
The  MAH  argued  that  the  data  suggest  that  ASAS  20  response  was  associated  with  higher  through 
serum  concentrations  of  infliximab,  thus  suggesting  an  infliximab  serum  concentration-response 
relationship. However, the CHMP noted that the described relationship appears plausible, but does not 
have  an  impact  on  treatment  strategies.  In  order  to  justify  dose  escalation  a  clear  correlation  of  low 
through levels and impaired clinical response and the absence of concurrent safety issues need to be 
demonstrated.  The  SPC  already  contains  information  that  efficacy  may  be  reduced  in  subjects  who 
have developed antibodies. 
Relationship between antibody-to-infliximab status and serum infliximab concentration 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  infliximab  generally  remained  unchanged  over  time.  As  expected,  the 
submitted  documentation  showed  that  anti-infliximab  antibodies  can  lead  to  a  higher  clearance  and 
shorter half-life of infliximab. 
Clinical efficacy 
The  clinical  development  program  for  infliximab  for  the  treatment  of  AS  consisted  of  2  controlled 
clinical trials, ASSERT and P01522 (which was previously submitted and assessed within the initial 
application for AS). 
ASSERT (C0168T51) 
ASSERT  was  a  phase  3,  randomised,  multicentre,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  2-arm,  parallel 
study of 279 subjects with AS. The objectives of the study were to assess the reduction in the signs 
and symptoms of AS and the safety of infliximab (5 mg/kg) therapy in subjects with AS.  
Study participants 
Subjects eligible were to have had a diagnosis of definite AS, as defined by the 1984 Modified New 
York  Criteria  for  at  least  3  months  prior  to  screening.  Active  disease  at  the  time  of  screening  was 
defined as a Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)4 score ≥ 4, and a score 
for spinal pain of ≥  4 on a visual analogue scale (VAS)5 of 0 to 10 cm. Concurrent stable treatment 
with  nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs  (NSAIDs),  acetaminophen,  and  tramadol  was  permitted 
during the study. Systemic corticosteroids, cytotoxic drugs, or disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs) at the time of screening were not permitted. 
For all subjects enrolled, the median AS duration was 8.8 years. The median disease duration in the 
placebo group was higher than that in the infliximab group (13.2 versus 7.7); the means were similar 
between  treatment  groups  (11.9 years  in  the  placebo  and  10.1  years  in  the  infliximab  group)  at 
baseline.  
3 ASAS 20 response is a tool to measure the efficacy of products on the symptoms of AS (see clinical efficacy for details on 
the criteria). 
4  The  BASDAI  consists  of  a  one  through  10  scale  in  response  to  6  questions  pertaining  to  the  5  major  symptoms  of  AS: 
fatigue, spinal pain, joint pain/ swelling, areas of localized tenderness, morning stiffness. The higher the BASDAI score, the 
more severe the patients disability due to their AS.  
5  A  VAS  is  a  measurement  instrument  that  tries  to  measure  a  characteristic  or  attitude  that  is  believed  to  range  across  a 
continuum of values and cannot easily be directly measured, like pain. 
Page 3 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Treatment 
Subjects were randomly assigned in a 3:8 ratio to 1 of 2 treatment groups, such that 78 subjects were 
allocated to receive placebo and 201 subjects were allocated to receive 5 mg/kg infliximab. Placebo or 
5 mg/kg infliximab was infused at weeks 0, 2, 6, 12, and 18.  
Beginning at week 24, placebo-treated subjects crossed over to receive 5 mg/kg infliximab infusions at 
weeks 24, 26, 30, and every 6 weeks thereafter through week 96. Subjects who received infliximab at 
randomisation  received  a  5  mg/kg  infliximab  infusion  at  week  24,  a  placebo infusion  at  week  26  to 
maintain the blind, and a 5 mg/kg infliximab infusion at week 30. Starting with the week 36 infusion 
and continuing through week 96, subjects in the infliximab group who had a BASDAI ≥ 3 at both the 
current visit and the prior visit (i.e., 2 consecutive visits), received a 7.5 mg/kg infliximab infusion and 
continued  to  receive  7.5  mg/kg  infusions  every  6  weeks  through  week  96.  Subjects  with  a 
BASDAI < 3  continued  to  receive  5  mg/kg  infliximab  infusions  every  6  weeks  through  week  96. 
Subjects were followed for efficacy and safety assessments through week 102.  
Efficacy variables 
The primary endpoint for this study was the proportion of subjects who achieved ASAS 20 response at 
week  24.  A  subject  was  classified  as  having  achieved  an  ASAS  20  response  if  the  following  was 
achieved: 
1. An improvement of ≥ 20% from baseline and absolute improvement from baseline of at least 10 on 
a 0 to 100 mm scale in at least 3 of the following 4 domains: 
•  Patient global 
•  Spinal pain 
•  Function (Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI)6) 
• 
Inflammation (average of the last 2 questions of the BASDAI concerning morning stiffness) 
2. Absence of deterioration from baseline (≥ 20% and absolute change of at least 10 on a 0 to 100 mm 
scale) in the potential remaining domain. 
In  order  to  determine  whether  a  subject  achieved  an  ASAS  20  response,  postbaseline  data  from  all 
4 domains had to be present. 
The following were among major secondary endpoints:  
•  Change from baseline in BASFI at week 24. 
•  Proportion of subjects achieving an AS major clinical response at week 24. 
•  Change from baseline in the MRI activity score at week 24. 
•  Change from baseline in the physical component summary score of the SF-367 at week 24. 
Safety and efficacy data were presented for the placebo group (data through week 24), the placebo-to-
infliximab group (weeks 24 through 102), and the infliximab group (data from week 0 through week 
102,  which  included  data  for  subjects  who  received  an  escalated  dose  of  infliximab).  Additionally, 
where appropriate, safety and efficacy data were presented for subjects who received 7.5 mg/kg at any 
point during the study.  
Results: 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint 
The proportion of subjects achieving an ASAS 20 response at week 24 in the infliximab group was 
significantly  greater  than  in  the  placebo  group  (123/201  subjects;  61%  versus  15/78  subjects;  19%; 
p < 0.001).  
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
At week 24, a statistically significant larger percentage of infliximab treated subjects achieved an AS 
major  clinical  response  (22%  vs  1.3%);  and  a  BASDAI  50  response  (51%  vs  11%)  compared  with 
6 The BASFI consists of 8 specific questions regarding function in AS and 2 questions reflecting the patient's ability to cope 
with everyday life.  
7 The SF-36 health survey is a short form measure of generic health status in the general population. 
Page 4 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
placebo.  Additional  secondary  analyses  supported  that  infliximab  treatment  significantly  improved 
other  manifestations  of  AS,  including  range  of  motion,  physical  function  and  quality  of  life  (QoL) 
(SF-36 physical component). The median change from baseline in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
activity score at week 24 showed a statistically significant (p < 0.001) improvement in the infliximab 
group compared with the placebo group. 
In the trial, approximately 10% of patients were HLA-B27 negative. The proportion of responders was 
similar  in  this  and  the  HLA-B27  positive  subgroup  of  patients.  Hence,  efficacy  appeared  similar  in 
these groups of patients. 
Dose escalation and maintenance of effect 
The  currently  approved  dose  of  infliximab  for  treating  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  AS  is  5  mg/kg, 
administered at weeks 0, 2, and 6, followed by a maintenance regimen every 6 to 8 weeks. There was 
no proposed change to the current posology. 
In  ASSERT,  a  dose  escalation  up  to  7.5  mg/kg  infliximab  was  possible  from  the  week  36  visit. 
Subjects  in  the  infliximab  group  who  had  a  BASDAI  of  ≥  3  for  2  consecutive  visits  had  their 
infliximab  dose  increased  from  5  mg/kg  to  7.5  mg/kg.  There  were  in  total  105  patients  out  of  201 
(53%) who dose escalated up to week 102.  
At  week  24,  the  number  of  ASAS  responders  was  15/78  (19%)  in  the  placebo  group  and  123/201 
(61%) in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group (p<0.001). There were 95 subjects who continued on 5 mg/kg 
every 6 weeks up to week 102. Among those, 71 were ASAS 20 responders at week 102. 
The percentage of subjects achieving an ASAS 20 response with dose escalation generally increased 
over time. However, a lower percentage of these subjects achieved an ASAS 20 response at any given 
time  compared  to  subjects  who  received  infliximab  5  mg/kg  throughout  study  treatment.  Further,  a 
smaller  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  dose  escalation  groups  maintained  response  compared  to  the 
subjects who received infliximab 5 mg/kg throughout the study.  
Study P01522 
Data through week 54 of study P01522 was the basis for the current approval in patients with AS. The 
MAH submitted additional data through 2 years of  treatment. The objective of  the extension was to 
assess safety and efficacy of long-term treatment (i.e., up to 2 years) with infliximab in subjects with 
AS. 
Study participants 
Study P01522 was an investigator-initiated, phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dummy, 
clinical study to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of infliximab in 70 subjects with active AS. 
Subjects eligible for P01522 were to have a diagnosis of definite AS, according to the modified New 
York criteria (i.e., a pelvic x-ray showing bilateral sacroiliitis ≥ grade 2) with active disease defined by 
a BASDAI score of ≥  4 and a spinal pain score of ≥  4 (last week) on a VAS of 0 to 10 cm. 
Treatment 
P01522 study had two phases and a long-term extension. In phase A (double-blind, placebo-controlled 
phase),  subjects  were  randomised  to  receive  5  mg/kg  infliximab  or  placebo  infusions  at  weeks  0,  2, 
and  6.  At  week  12,  both  groups  received  a  5  mg/kg  infliximab  infusion  to  initiate  phase  B 
(noncomparative phase). At week 14, subjects who were randomised to placebo received  a 5  mg/kg 
infliximab infusion (placebo-to-infliximab subjects) and subjects who were randomised to infliximab 
received  a  placebo  infusion  to  maintain  the  original treatment  blind.  From  weeks  18  through  48,  all 
subjects  received  infliximab  (5  mg/kg)  infusions  every  6  weeks.  One-year  efficacy  was  assessed  at 
week 54. The long-term extension of P01522 was open-label. An infliximab infusion (5 mg/kg) was 
administered at week 54 and every 6 weeks thereafter through week 102.  
Efficacy Variables 
The primary endpoint in P01522 was the proportion of subjects with ≥50% improvement in BASDAI 
at week 12. 
Page 5 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results  
At week 12, treatment with infliximab resulted in improvement in signs and symptoms, as assessed by 
the BASDAI, with 57% of infliximab treated patients achieving at least 50% reduction from baseline 
in BASDAI score (mean baseline score was 6.5 in the infliximab group and 6.3 in the placebo group), 
compared with 9% of placebo patients (p<0.01). Physical function, range of motion, and quality of life 
(SF-36) were improved similarly. 
Results across studies:  
The table 1 below shows results over time in the two studies.  
Table 1. Results from Assert and P01522 at different time points. 
Placebo → 
Infliximab 
78 
61 
44 (72.1%) 
ASSERT at week 102 
   Subjects randomized 
   Subjects evaluated 
   Subjects achieving ASAS 20 
P01522 at week 54/end of year 1 
   Subjects evaluated 
   Subjects achieving BASDAI 50 
P01522 at end of year 2 
   Subjects evaluated 
   Subjects achieving BASDAI 50 
5 mg/kg 
Infliximab a 
201 
165 
122 (73.9%) 
53 
33 (62.3%) 
53 
30 (56.6%) 
a Includes subjects in ASSERT who received a close escalation to  7.5 mg/kg infliximab on or after 
week 36. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
It can be concluded that the efficacy in AS, including in patients with severe, active disease, has been 
shown  and  confirmed  by  the  additionally  submitted  data.  In  ASSERT  there  is  limited  experience  in 
HLA-B27 negative patients, showing similar efficacy as in HLA-B27 positive.  
In ASSERT, the efficacy results indicate an increased number of ASAS 20 responders in patients with 
baseline CRP (C-reactive protein) >3 and with BASDAI score >7, thus supporting efficacy in patients 
with severe, active ankylosing spondylitis.  
The  MAH  analysed  effect  over  time  and  maintenance  of  effect.  At  week  24,  the  number  of  ASAS 
responders  was  19%  vs.  61%,  in  the  placebo  and  in  the  5 mg/kg  infliximab  groups,  respectively.  A 
subset of the patients who continued on 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks  were  ASAS  20 responders at  week 
102.  
Out of the 201 initially infliximab-treated patients, 106 had a BASDAI  score >3 at two  consecutive 
visits at week 36 or thereafter, thereby fulfilling the predefined criteria for an increase in dose, due to 
insufficient response. It should be pointed out that they could still be ASAS 20 responders. Overall, 
the CHMP  considered there were insufficient data to assess the  value of dose escalation. The MAH 
had no claim in relation to dose escalation.  
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Between week 0 and week 96, each of the 277 subjects who participated in the trial received at least 
1 dose  of  study  agent.  Subjects  in  the  placebo-to-infliximab  group  received  an  average  of 
11.7 infusions, while subjects in the infliximab group received an average of 15.9 infusions during the 
study.  The  median  cumulative  dose  of  infliximab  was  68.5  mg/kg  and  90.5  mg/kg  for  the 
placebo-to-infliximab group and the infliximab group, respectively. 
Page 6 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results: 
ASSERT 
Through week 24 in ASSERT, 3 subjects (2 [1.0%] infliximab-treated and 1 [1.3%] placebo-treated) 
permanently  discontinued  study  agent  infusions  because  of  an  adverse  event  (AE).  One  subject  on 
infliximab  discontinued  infusions  because  of  chills  (an  infusion  reaction),  another  on  placebo 
discontinued infusions because of myelitis, and another on infliximab discontinued infusions because 
of otitis. Of these AEs, myelitis was the only event considered serious. Through week 102, 26 subjects 
permanently  discontinued  study  agent  infusions  because  of  an  AE:  1  (1.3%)  placebo-treated  subject 
(through week 24), 7 (9.5%) placebo-infliximab subjects through week 102, and 18 (9.0%) infliximab-
treated  subjects  through  week  102,  which  includes  subjects  who  had  an  escalation  in  dose  to 
7.5 mg/kg. Only 2 events were reported in > 1% of subjects: chills (1.1%) and urticaria (1.1%). 
Study P01522 
Through week 54 in Study P01522, 11 (16%) subjects had AEs that resulted in the discontinuation of 
study  agent.  Through  week  12  (Phase  A),  AEs  that  led  to  discontinuation  of  study  agent  infusions 
were  granulomatosis  of  the  lung,  tuberculosis  (TB),  and  leucopenia,  each  reported  by  1  infliximab-
treated  subject.  All  of  these  AEs  were  considered  serious  and  all  resolved.  From  weeks  14  through 
54 (Phase B), AEs that led to the discontinuation of study agent infusions were lupus-like syndrome 
(3 subjects),  infusion  reaction  (2 subjects),  herpes  zoster  (1  subject),  liver  enzymes  elevated 
(1 subject), and skin lupus (1 subject). All of these AEs were considered serious with the exception of 
infusion reaction (not serious for each subject) and herpes zoster. All of the events resolved. During 
year 2, 3 (6%) subjects had AEs that led to the discontinuation of study agent. The AEs that led to the 
discontinuation  of  study  agent  infusion  were  infusion-associated  symptoms  (2  subjects)  and 
pancreatitis (1 subject). Both cases of infusion-associated symptoms were considered to be severe and 
probably  related  to  study  treatment.  The  event  of  pancreatitis  was  considered  to  be  moderate  and 
unlikely related to study treatment. 
Adverse events (AEs) 
The  AEs  observed  with  infliximab  therapy  in  subjects  with  AS  through  102  weeks  in  ASSERT  and 
Study P01522 were similar. In addition, the AEs observed in ASSERT and Study P01522 were similar 
to those observed in previous studies of infliximab in other indications. 
The most commonly reported AE in both the placebo-controlled portions and throughout 102 weeks in 
ASSERT and Study P01522 was upper respiratory tract infection. In ASSERT, the incidence of upper 
respiratory tract infection  increased over a 2-year period of observation. This AE was  also  the  most 
commonly reported event in subjects who had a dose escalation to 7.5 mg/kg infliximab. However, the 
frequency of upper respiratory tract infection did not increase as subjects shifted to a higher dose of 
infliximab:  in  ASSERT,  47.3%  of  placebo  -infliximab  subjects  had  upper  respiratory  tract  infection 
through week 102, compared with 31.1% of subjects who escalated to 7.5 mg/kg infliximab. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
No deaths were reported through 102 weeks in ASSERT or in study P01522. One subject in ASSERT 
was  diagnosed  with  lung  cancer  and  subsequently  died  approximately  1.5  months  after  terminating 
study participation due to ventricular fibrillation.  
Infections 
One or more infections were reported for 79.3% of subjects who received at least 1 dose of infliximab 
through week 102. The most commonly reported infection was upper respiratory tract infection, which 
was  reported  in  48.7%  of  infliximab-treated  subjects  during  the  study.  The  frequency  of  serious 
infections was low among subjects who received at least 1 dose of infliximab: 11 (4.0%) subjects had 
1  or  more  serious  infections  during  the  study.  Pneumonia  was  the  most  common  serious  infection, 
occurring in 3 (1.1%) infliximab-treated subjects. The most common infection requiring antimicrobial 
treatment among infliximab treated subjects was upper respiratory tract infection (12.0%).  
No cases of active tuberculosis were identified. 
Page 7 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Malignancies 
Three  malignancies  were  reported  through  week  102  in  ASSERT.  One  subject  was  diagnosed  with 
squamous  cell  carcinoma  of  the  skin  18  days  after  the  week  66  dose  of  5  mg/kg  infliximab;  this 
subject also had a basal cell carcinoma of the skin that was not reported as an AE. Another subject was 
diagnosed  with  pulmonary  carcinoma  40  days  after  the  week  42  dose  of  7.5 mg/kg  infliximab;  the 
subject was a cigarette smoker (10 to 15 cigarettes/day, with a history of 20 to 30 cigarettes/day). A 
third  subject  was  diagnosed  with  breast  cancer  in  the  left  breast  21  days  after  the  week  36  dose  of 
7.5 mg/kg  infliximab.  In  addition,  1  subject  who  participated  in  ASSERT  developed  nonseminoma 
testicular carcinoma after the discontinuation of study participation (nearly 1 year after his last dose of 
infliximab). 
There were no cases of lymphoma through 102 weeks of treatment. 
Infusion reactions 
The overall proportion of subjects with 1 or more infusion reactions through week 102 was 18.9% in 
subjects who received at least 1 dose of infliximab. The frequency of infusion reactions was low and 
similar between placebo infusions (2.6% of all placebo infusions from week 0 through week 24) and 
infliximab infusions (2.2% of all infliximab infusions through week 102). Two subjects had infusion 
reactions that were serious 
Among infliximab-treated subjects who received prophylaxis at any time, the percentage with infusion 
reactions  following  the  first  use  of  prophylactic  medication  was  lower  (6.3%)  than  without 
prophylaxis  (12.3%).  Altogether  prophylactic  medication  for  infusion  reactions  was  given  to 
32 subjects at any time. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
No new or unexpected adverse events were identified when infliximab was used for the treatment of 
AS up to 102 weeks. 
Risk management plan 
The  MAH  did  not  consider  there  was  a  need  for  a  Risk  Management  Plan  for  this  application,  as  it 
concerned a revision of an already approved indication, and there were no new or unexpected safety 
signals identified in the newly submitted data. This view was agreed with by the CHMP.  
Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
In  2003,  Remicade  was  approved  for  use  in  AS.  The  initial  indication  was  restricted  due  to  sparse 
clinical data from one small investigator-initiated trial in total 70 patients, treated for up to 54 weeks. 
To support this variation application the MAH submitted an additional clinical study, ASSERT. These 
additional data, including long-term data, were requested as a follow-up measure in association with 
the initial approval.  
Benefit  
It can be concluded that the efficacy in AS, including in patients with severe, active disease, has been 
shown and confirmed by the additionally submitted data. In ASSERT; there was limited experience in 
HLA-B27  negative  patients,  showing  similar  efficacy  as  in  HLA-B27  positive  patients.  Overall,  a 
change  of  the  indication  is  acceptable.  However,  due  to  the  general  safety  concerns  with  anti-TNF 
treatment,  the  new  indication  should  be  to  "Ankylosing  spondylitis:  Remicade  is  indicated  for: 
Treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis in adult patients who have responded inadequately 
to conventional therapy."  
Maintenance  of  effect  up  to  week  102  was  observed  in  a  subset  of  the  patients  who  continued  on 
5 mg/kg every 6 weeks. The CHMP agreed to add the number of responders at relevant time points to 
section 5.1 of the SPC to present maintenance of effect.  
Page 8 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk  
No new or unexpected adverse events were identified when infliximab was used for the treatment of 
ankylosing spondylitis up to 102 weeks.  
Overall, the benefit /risk balance for this indication remains positive.  
No change was proposed to the conditions for the approval of the type II variation. 
Conclusion 
On 20 September 2007 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the summary of product characteristics. 
Page 9 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
