London, 22 March 2007 
Product name: Remicade 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/240/II/75 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Introduction 
Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine IgG1κ monoclonal antibody, which binds to both soluble and 
transmembrane forms of the human tumour necrosis factor (TNF)α and inhibits the functional activity 
of TNFα.  
Remicade (infliximab) is  currently approved for the treatment of  rheumatoid arthritis (RA), Crohn’s 
disease  (CD),  ankylosing  spondylitis  (AS),  psoriatic  arthritis  (PsA),  psoriasis  and  ulcerative  colitis 
(UC). 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) applied for an extension of the indication for infliximab to 
include treatment of moderate to severe, active Crohn’s disease (CD) in children, aged 6 to 17 years, 
who have not responded to a full and adequate course of conventional therapy, or who are intolerant to 
or have medical contraindications to such therapy.  
Crohn’s disease is a chronic relapsing, remitting inflammatory disease of the gastrointestinal tract, the 
cause of which remains unknown. The disease affects the gastrointestinal tract discontinuously from 
mouth to anus, but most commonly the disease is located both in ileum and colon (40%)1, followed by 
a disease in the small bowel only (30%), and in the colon only (25%). It occurs in a relatively young 
population  and  there  is  no  marked  sex  difference.  The  incidence  of  CD  in  European  countries  is 
estimated  to  be  6-7/100.000.  Patients  with  CD  have  a  normal  life  expectancy,  however,  most 
individuals experience an impact of the disease on their daily life. 
the  disease 
It is estimated that 25% of new cases of CD occur in subjects younger than 20 years of age, with the 
peak frequency of new cases in the paediatric population occurring in the mid-to-late teens (Motil et 
al, 1993; Hyams, 1996). In addition to the perianal disease (e.g., lesions, fistulae, abscesses), anaemia, 
and  weight  loss  seen  in  CD  at  any  age,  impaired  linear  growth  and  delayed  sexual  maturation  are 
in  paediatric  patients  (Satsangi,  2003).  Other  extraintestinal 
characteristics  of 
manifestations  include  arthritis,  decreased  bone  density  and  bone  fractures,  skin  and  eye  lesions, 
hepatobiliary disorders, and acute pancreatitis. Chronic malnutrition in children with CD is thought to 
result  mainly  from  reduced  caloric  intake,  caused  by  eating  less  to  avoid  painful  abdominal  cramps 
and diarrhoea. Cytokines, including TNFα, produced by the inflamed bowel are also considered to be 
a cause of disease-related anorexia. In addition to the impaired growth caused by malnutrition, CD in 
children creates challenges with respect to psychological, educational, and social development that are 
difficult to reverse. 
The application for the present type II variation was primarily supported by the results from the phase 
3  CD  study  in  112  paediatric  subjects  (C0168T47),  entitled  “A  randomised,  multicentre,  open-label 
study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  anti-TNF-α  chimeric  monoclonal  antibody  in  paediatric 
subjects with moderate to severe Crohn’s Disease (REACH).”  
Additional  supportive  data  was  provided  by  the  following  two  MAH-sponsored  clinical  trials: 
C0168T55,  entitled  “A  phase  1,  open-label  study  evaluating  the  safety  and  pharmacokinetics  of  a 
single  intravenous  infusion  of  a  chimeric  monoclonal  antibody  to  human  TNF-α  in  paediatric 
inflammatory  bowel  disease  subjects  receiving  maintenance  treatment  with  infliximab”  and 
C0168T23, entitled “A multicentre study of anti-TNFα chimeric monoclonal antibody in the treatment 
of paediatric patients with active Crohn’s disease.” 
Additionally,  comparisons  to  data  from  adult  subjects  with  CD  were  included  in  the  submission  to 
support the use of infliximab as a treatment for CD in children. 
The  MAH  proposed  to  amend  the  text  of  the  SCP  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.4,  4.8,  5.1  and  5.2  with  the 
results of the above mentioned studies, and to update the PL accordingly.  
1 All figures presented are approximate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
2. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics (PKs) 
Studies C0168T23 and C0168T55, specifically evaluated the PKs in children with CD, additionally to 
the  PK  data  obtained  in  study  CO168T47.  Infliximab  was  in  all  three  studies  analysed  with  an 
enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay  (ELISA)  method.  The  limit  of  quantification  (LOQ)  was 
0.1µg/ml.  
Study C0168T23 
This  study  aimed  to  demonstrate  that  with  infliximab  at  single  doses  of  5  and  10  mg/kg  the  PK 
parameters  in  the  paediatric  population  were  comparable  to  those  previously  seen  in  the  adult 
population. The study involved 21 children (11 to 17 years old; mean age 14.6 years), 19 Caucasians 
and 2 Black subjects were enrolled, 15 of the subjects were male and 6 female. The study consisted of 
a  single  infusion  of  1  mg/kg,  5 mg/kg  and  10  mg/kg  of  infliximab.  Plasma  concentrations  were 
followed  for  20  weeks.  Pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  determined  using  a  non-compartmental 
method.  The initial  timepoint  where  concentrations  fell  below  quantitation  limits  was  set  to  half  the 
LOQ (=0.05 µg/ml).  
Study C0168T55 
Six paediatric subjects ranging in age from 9 to 11 years (mean age 9.5) were enrolled and treated in 
this  study.  Each  subject  received  a  single  intravenous  (IV)  infusion  of  5 mg/kg  of  infliximab.  The 
infusion  was  administered  over,  at  minimum,  a  2-hour  period.  Samples  for  serum  concentrations  of 
infliximab and PK analyses were to be obtained prior to the infusion and 2 hours after the end of the 
infusion,  at  day  3,  week  1,  2,  4,  and  at  the  final  visit.  The  PK  parameters  were  determined  using 
compartmental modelling with WinNonLin software.  
Study C0168T47 
A secondary objective of this phase 3 study was to evaluate the PK in patients aged 6-17 years, with a 
limited number of patients between 6 and 9 years of age. A total of 112 treated subjects were included 
and PK data was obtained from 106 subjects. 
Blood  samples  for  the  measurement  of  serum  infliximab  concentration  were  collected  immediately 
prior to and 1 hour after the infusion at weeks 0, 2, and 6, and at the non-infusion visit (week 10) for 
all  subjects.  From  patients  randomised  to  the  every  8-week  dosage,  additional  blood  samples  were 
drawn immediately prior to the infusion at weeks 14, 22, 30, 38, and 46, at 1-hour after the infusion at 
week  46,  and  at  the  non-infusion  visit  at  week  54.  For  patients  randomised  to  the  every  12  week 
dosage  (5 mg/kg  infliximab  every  12  weeks),  additional  blood  samples  were  collected  immediately 
prior to the infusion at weeks 18, 30, and 42; at 1-hour after the infusion at week 42; and at the non-
infusion visit at week 54. In patients who switched treatment, blood samples were drawn immediately 
prior to and 1 hour after the infusion at the crossover visit and every visit thereafter. Compartmental 
modelling was used to obtain the PK parameters. 
An overall comparison between the studies in children CO168T23, CO168T55 and CO168T47, and 
adults (data collected from study CO168T11) is presented in table 1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic parameter estimates in paediatric and adult subjects with Crohn’s disease  
 Dose: 5 mg/kg 
Peadiatrics and adolescents 
Studies CO168T23, 
CO168T55 and CO168T47 
N= 84 Mean± SD (range)  
6.5±3.0 (2.4-19.4) 
918±387 (258-2085) 
126±34 65-230) 
12.3±6.1 (2.6-29.2) 
Study CO168T11 
Adults 
N=5 
Mean± SD (range) 
7.5±2.7 (5.6-12.1) 
715±190 (415-891) 
84.5±19.4 (63-108) 
6.4±2.5 (2.6-8.3) 
CL (ml/day/kg) 
AUCss (µg*day /mL) 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
T ½ (days) 
Discussion on pharmacokinetics 
The  MAH  investigated  the  PKs  in  children  aged  6-17  years  of  age,  including  a  limited  number  of 
subjects in the age range between 6-9 years.  
In study CO168T23 data suggested a similar exposure in adolescents and adults. In both adolescents 
and adults a decreased clearance with increased dose was observed. However, since there was a higher 
frequency of patients administered the 1 mg/kg dose that had their later concentrations set to half the 
LOQ,  the  higher  clearance  may  be  due  to  an  artefact  of  the  analytical  method  not  being  sensitive 
enough.  
Study  CO168T55  involved  six  children  aged  9-11  years.  Although  being  a  small  study;  the  results 
indicated a similar exposure in this age group as in adults.  
In study CO168T47, PK data were obtained from 106 patients. In this study, subjects were allowed to 
cross  over  treatment  (either  from  5  mg/kg  q  12  weeks  to  either  5  mg/kg  or  10  mg/kg  q  8  weeks  or 
from 5 mg/kg q 8 weeks to 10 mg/kg q 8 weeks). There was a tendency to higher clearance in those 
patients who crossed over to other treatments, in particular those who increased the dose. It is unclear 
if this suggests an increased clearance over time and if this possibly could be caused by formation of 
antibodies. The MAH stated that there were no signs of any differences between the groups regarding 
the  antibody  formation  to  infliximab.  However,  the  determination  of  antibodies  is  to  some  extent 
uncertain, as presence of infliximab in plasma could affect the antibody determination. 
The  adult  study  (CO168T11),  used  for  comparison  of  the  PK  in  adults  and  children,  was  limited  to 
five patients administered 5 mg/kg. Therefore, additionally to the data that can be presented within the 
population  analysis,  a  comparison  with  more  extensive  PK  data  in  adult  Crohn’s  patients  was 
requested. 
Furthermore,  initially  there  was  no  presentation  of  individual  data  vs.  age  and  weight,  limiting  the 
assessment of any potential differences in exposure within the paediatric group. A plot of individual 
clearance  values  for  all  paediatric/adolescents  versus  age  was  requested  together  with  the 
corresponding  data  available  in  adults.  Potential  confounders  such  as  antibody  formation  and 
insensitive  analytical  methods  were  to  be  discussed  by  the  MAH.  The  MAH  was  also  requested  to 
perform  a  population  analysis  on  all  data  to  fully  elucidate  the  influence  of  e.g.  age  on  relevant  PK 
parameters such as clearance. 
The MAH provided answers to the request for supplementary information. From the data presented of 
the  individual  plotted  variables  versus  clearance,  there  did  not  seem  to  be  any  trend  that  other 
parameters  than  weight  would  explain  the  differences  observed  in  clearance.  Furthermore,  the  body 
weight normalised dosing seemed to work appropriately since the pre-infusion serum concentrations in 
both children and adults reached approximately the same median values and no clear trends were seen 
indicating any large difference in the distribution of concentrations. The CHMP considered that since 
there is very limited data, a conclusion regarding the clearance in the paediatric population between 6 
and  10  years  of  age  is  difficult  to  make.  However,  from  a  PK  point  of  view,  this  should  not  be 
detrimental of the approval of the sought indication.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
3. 
Clinical efficacy 
Main study (CO168T47) REACH 
Study participants 
The study participants were 112 paediatric subjects with moderately to severely active CD (PCDAI2 > 
30)  with  inadequate  response  to  conventional  therapies,  ranging  in  age  from  6  to 17 years.  Subjects 
had to have CD diagnosed for at least 3 months prior to screening.  
The majority of subjects were boys (60%), Caucasian (82%), with median duration of CD of 1.6 years 
and median age of 13 years.  
The distribution by age group is detailed in the table 2 below.  
Table 2  
REACH subjects by age group 
Age group, years 
6 to 8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
≥14 
Number of subjects 
4 
4 
7 
10 
12 
20 
55 
% 
3.6% 
3.6% 
6.3% 
8.9% 
10.7% 
17.9% 
49.1% 
Treatment 
All 112 subjects were to receive 5 mg/kg infliximab induction dosing at weeks 0, 2, and 6. At week 
10, 103 subjects who were judged to be in response  by the investigators were  randomised to 1 of 2 
maintenance  treatment  regimens:  52  subjects  were  assigned  to  receive  5  mg/kg  every  8  weeks  (q8 
week  maintenance  group)  and  51  subjects  were  assigned  to  receive  5  mg/kg  every  12  weeks  (q12 
week  maintenance  group).  Nine  subjects  did  not  enter  the  maintenance  phase  of  the  study.  Subjects 
who lost response during the maintenance phase were permitted to crossover to receive infliximab at a 
higher dose and/or to receive infliximab more frequently (n=35): 10 subjects had their dose increased 
from 5 mg/kg q8 weeks to 10 mg/kg q8 weeks, 12 subjects had an increase from 5 mg/kg q12 weeks 
to 5 mg/kg q8 weeks, and 13 subjects had an increase from 5 mg/kg q12 weeks to 10 mg/kg q8 weeks. 
All  subjects  had  a  history  of  prior  treatment  with  other  CD  medications  (corticosteroids, 
immunomodulatory agents, or aminosalicylates). Of the 103 randomised subjects, the majority (99%) 
received  1  or  more  concomitant  medications  at  baseline.  Of  these  subjects,  35%  received 
corticosteroids,  98%  received  immunomodulatory  agents  and  54%  received  aminosalicylates.  The 
overall  use  of  immunomodulators  and  aminosalicylates  was  balanced  between  the  2  maintenance 
treatment groups, but corticosteroids were more commonly used in the q8 week (46%) than in the q12 
week (23%) maintenance treatment group. Of the randomised subjects receiving immunomodulatory 
agents,  90%  received  6-MP  (6-mercapto  purine)  or  AZA  (azathioprine)  and  9%  received  MTX 
(methotrexate).  The  use  of  6-MP/AZA  was  balanced  between  the  2  maintenance  treatment  groups. 
MTX  was  a  baseline  concomitant  medication  for  13%  of  subjects  in  the  q8  week  and  for  4%  of 
subjects  in  the  q12  week  maintenance  treatment  group.  Mesalamine  was  the  most  frequently  used 
aminosalicylate  in  the  study.  Concomitant  medical  therapy  for  CD  was  stable  for  a  specified  period 
before  screening,  and  through  week  54  (excluding  corticosteroids).  Subjects  on  oral  corticosteroids 
kept their prescribed dose stable through week 2. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  a  3-dose  induction  regimen  of 
infliximab in reducing signs and symptoms in paediatric subjects with moderately to severely active 
2 Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
CD (PCDAI > 30 points). The safety profile of infliximab during induction and maintenance treatment 
was also evaluated. 
The major secondary efficacy endpoints were:  
1. To evaluate the efficacy of 2 infliximab maintenance dosing regimens (q8 weeks versus q12 weeks) 
in maintaining clinical response and inducing clinical remission in paediatric subjects with moderately 
to severely active CD; 
2. To determine the PK profile in paediatric subjects following induction and maintenance dosing with 
infliximab; 
3. To determine the effect of dosing with infliximab on the use of corticosteroids; 
4. To determine the effect of maintenance dosing with infliximab on growth over the course of 1 year.  
The main objective of the open label extension (OLE) was to offer continued infliximab therapy to the 
subjects who participated in the study. Additionally, the objectives of the OLE were to assess both the 
maintenance of clinical response and the safety of infliximab with long-term treatment of CD in the 
paediatric subject population. The MAH committed to continue the OLE until marketing authorisation 
is obtained for the use of infliximab for the treatment of CD in paediatric subjects, or for a maximum 
of 3 years.  
Statistics 
REACH  was  an  open,  non-placebo  controlled  study.  Additionally  to  these  data,  the  MAH  proposed 
comparisons  to  data  from  adult  subjects  with  CD,  derived  primarily  from  ACCENT  I,  a  previously 
assessed multicentre study of adult patients with moderately to severely active CD who had previously 
failed to respond to usual therapies, such as aminosalicylates, immunosuppressants, and steroids. The 
CHMP  did  not  agree  with  the  MAH  argumentation  that  the  REACH  study  is  very  similar  to  the 
ACCENT I  study.  The  ACCENT  I  study  was  a  placebo-controlled  study  where  the  effect  was 
measured in the Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI). Improvement in the CDAI of ≥70 points was 
considered  as  response.  In  the  REACH  study  the  definition  of  response  was  an  improvement  in 
PCDAI of ≥ 10 points. The CHMP did not consider that the MAH had presented a rational for how 
these different scores relates to one another even though it was recognised that the symptoms scored 
are practically the same. Therefore, direct comparisons of efficacy results from these two studies were 
not  considered  as  adequate  to  demonstrate  efficacy  in  REACH.  Comparisons  between  the  two  dose 
regimens applied in REACH were considered to hold more value for demonstration of efficacy. Other 
statistical methods used seemed adequate and satisfactory performed. 
Results 
Primary endpoint 
The proportion of subjects achieving clinical response to infliximab at week 10 was 88%, indicating 
that  the  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  reached.  The  used  definition  of  clinical  response  was 
considered clinically relevant in the paediatric population.  
Secondary endpoints 
Subjects who discontinued the study, did so due to insufficient data to assess their clinical remission 
status, had a prohibited CD-related surgery, or had prohibited concomitant medication changes. Those 
who crossed over were considered not to be in clinical remission at the timepoint of interest and at any 
timepoint thereafter, regardless of their PCDAI score. 
A greater proportion of subjects randomised to the q8 maintenance group achieved clinical response as 
compared  to  the  q12  maintenance  group  at  week  30  (73%  vs.  47%)  and  week  54  (63%  vs.  33%). 
Similarly, a greater proportion of subjects randomised to the q8 maintenance group achieved clinical 
remission as compared to the q12 maintenance group at week 30 (60% vs. 35%) and week 54 (56% vs. 
23%). 
There was a  reduction in median corticosteroid dose by week 10 that was  maintained through week 
54.  Half  of  the  subjects  had  discontinued  corticosteroid  use  by  the  time  of  their  first  maintenance 
treatment  visit.  In  addition,  a  greater  proportion  of  subjects  on  corticosteroids  at  baseline  was  in 
remission and off corticosteroids at week 54 in the q8 week maintenance treatment group (46%) than 
in the q12 week maintenance treatment group (17%). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  even  if  nearly  all  patients  had  a  history  of  steroid  treatment  only  35%  of  patients  were 
steroid  treated  at  inclusion  in  the  REACH  study.  The  MAH  was  asked  to  justify  the  inclusion  of 
patients  who  were  not  steroid  resistant  or  dependent  and  to  comment  on  the  fact  that  the  median 
steroid  doses  in  the  q12  week  treatment  group  were  higher  than  in  the  q8  week  treatment  group. 
Further to answers to the request for supplementary information, the CHMP considered that the claim 
of steroid dependent population did not follow the definition from the European Crohn’s and colitis 
organisation (ECCO), and was therefore not accepted. The number of patients on corticosteroids and 
the  median  average  daily  corticosteroid  dose  were  different  at  baseline  between  q8  and  q12  week 
groups.  Explanations  were  proposed  and  it  could  be  that  the  q12  week  group  represented  a  more 
severely ill population. The CHMP considered that a flexible regimen could be appropriate.  
Other  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  included  quality  of  life  analysis  and  a  measure  of  height 
improvement. Quality of life was assessed using a questionnaire specifically developed and validated 
for paediatric patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). It was administered only to some of the 
subjects.  The  mean  changes  (negative  change  indicates  improvement)  from  baseline  of  the  score  at 
weeks 10, 30, and 54 (-22.9, -21.1, and –24.3, respectively) were all significant (p < 0.001). 
Growth  analysis  was  performed  in  those  patients  who  had  a  delay  of  bone  age  of  at  least  1  year 
(n = 38; 23 and 15 subjects in the q8 week and q12 week maintenance regimens, respectively), the z-
scores3  were  significantly  improved  from  baseline  at  both  week  30  (n  =  32,  mean  change  of  0.3, 
p < 0.001)  and  week  54  (n  =  29,  mean  change  of  0.5,  p  <  0.001).  Considering  that  multiple  factors 
might  be  linked  to  the  catch-up  growth,  like  nutrition,  reduced  inflammation,  reduced  use  of 
corticosteroids, the MAH was asked to comment on how many of the subjects with delayed bone age 
were on steroids at baseline. From the data presented in the answers to the request for supplementary 
information, changes in growth from baseline were not dependent on baseline corticosteroid use. The 
MAH proposed a shortened wording related to this group of patients for section 5.1 of the SPC, which 
was agreed.  
Supportive studies 
The limited efficacy data from the PK study C0168T23 also supported the efficacy of infliximab in the 
applied extension of the therapeutic indication for paediatric CD. Although the number of subjects in 
this  study  was  small  (21  subjects),  efficacy  results,  as  demonstrated  by  clinical  remission,  were 
comparable  to  those  in  the  REACH  study.  In  C0168T23,  clinical  remission  was  achieved  by 
approximately  48%  (17%,  57%,  and  62%  in  the  1  mg/kg,  5 mg/kg,  and  10  mg/kg  treatment  groups 
respectively)  of  the  evaluated  subjects  during  the  first  20  weeks  compared  with  56%  in  clinical 
remission  in  the  q8  week  maintenance  treatment  group  and  23%  in  the  q12  week  maintenance 
treatment group at week 54 in the REACH study. All 7 subjects who had fistulising disease had their 
fistulas  closed  for  at  least  1  evaluation  visit.  Efficacy  was  not  formally  evaluated  in  the  PK  study 
C0168T55. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The CHMP noted that the populations treated and the study designs and scores used for REACH and 
ACCENT  I  were  substantially  different,  and  therefore  did  not  consider  across  study  comparison 
sufficient to demonstrate efficacy in the paediatric population. Notwithstanding this fact, comparisons 
of the two dose regimens (5 mg/kg q8 or q12 weeks) showed statistically significant difference both in 
terms of clinical response and clinical remission at 30 and 54 weeks. It is remote to believe that the 
q12  week  regimen  would  be  inferior  to  placebo,  and  thus  this  comparison  was  of  importance  for 
demonstration of efficacy. 
However, the steroid dose at baseline in the q12 week group (0.6 mg/kg/day) was twice the dose in the 
q8  week  treatment  group  (0.3  mg/kg/day),  which  might  indicate  that  the  patients  in  the  q12  week 
treatment group had a more serious disease at inclusion. Furthermore, it was also noted that there were 
fewer  patients  on  steroids  in  the  q12  week  group  (12/51)  compared  to  the  q8 week  group  (24/52). 
When  combining  the  q8  and  q12  week  data  it  was  shown  that  subjects  on  steroids  at  baseline  were 
able  to  decrease  the  dose  both  at  week  10  and  throughout  to  week  54.  Even  though  there  was  no 
3 The height z-score is a measure of the deviation of the paediatric patient’s height from the expected height for a reference 
population of the same age and sex. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
significant  difference  from  baseline  between  the  two  regimens  according  to  change  from  baseline 
corticosteroid dose through week 54, it seemed that infliximab had a steroid sparing effect.  
The height status was improved in a limited group of patients with delayed bone age. The improved 
height score was an interesting finding but as it was a small group these data have to be interpreted 
with some caution. Additionally, the quality of life score improved in the subgroup evaluated. 
Seventy five percent of patients who lost response and crossed over to a more frequent and/or higher 
dose regained response. However, the limited experience in 22 patients with the higher dose 10 mg/kg 
was not considered as sufficient to be reflected in the posology section. The MAH agreed that the data 
were limited and uncontrolled and thus amended the product information accordingly.  
Re-treatment was evaluated in 8 patients in the extension part of study C0168T23. It seemed that the 
patients had effect but there were signals of more immune mediated events. None of the events was 
life threatening but in three patients it was judged as hypersensitivity reactions. Based on the available 
data,  the  CHMP  considered  that  it  would  be  important  to  investigate  efficacy  further  in  long-term 
treatment and re-treatment. 
4. 
Clinical safety 
Data on clinical safety were primarily derived from the REACH study and supportive data came from 
the  two  other  studies  in  paediatric  CD  (C0168T23  and  C0168T55)  and  the  study of  adults  with  CD 
(C0168T21,  ACCENT  I).  Additionally,  safety  data  in  the  paediatric  population  were  available  from 
the  previously  assessed  C0168T32  study  in  juvenile  idiopathic  arthritis.  The  safety  experience  in 
adults is substantial.  
Patient exposure 
In  the  REACH  study,  the  total  dose  of  infliximab  that  was  administered  ranged  from  15.1  to 
65.0 mg/kg  in  the  q8  week  maintenance  treatment  group  (n  =  53).  For  the  q12  week  maintenance 
treatment  group  (n = 50),  the  total  dose  of  infliximab  that  was  administered  ranged  from  15.0  to 
68.8 mg/kg.  The  median  exposures  were  40.0  and  31.1  mg/kg  for  subjects  in  the  q8  week  and  q12 
week maintenance treatment groups, respectively. 
Adverse events 
The safety profile of infliximab in the paediatric subjects in the REACH study was consistent with that 
seen  in  the  adult  subjects.  Through  week  10  of  the  REACH  study,  75%  of  subjects  had  at  least 
1 adverse event (AE). The gastrointestinal (GI) system organ class had the highest incidence of AE, 
which  was  consistent  with  what  had  been  seen  in  the  ACCENT  I  study.  Also,  the  proportion  of 
REACH  subjects  with  AEs  in  the  q8  week  maintenance  treatment  group  was  comparable  to  the 
proportion  of  subjects  across  all  maintenance  groups  reporting  AEs  through  week  54  of  the 
ACCENT I study. No new AEs, when compared with existing adult safety experience, were identified. 
In the sex, age, or race subgroups, the proportions of paediatric REACH subjects with 1 or more AEs 
were comparable. 
The proportions of subjects with AEs were comparable across the maintenance groups, with 96% and 
92% of subjects in the q8 week and q12 week maintenance treatment groups experiencing 1 or more 
AEs,  respectively.  The  largest  percentage  of  treated  subjects  with  an  AE  occurred  in  the  GI  system 
organ class (74%) and in respiratory system organ class (63%). The most commonly reported AEs in 
the  GI  system-organ  class  were  CD  (23%),  abdominal  pain  (25%),  and  vomiting  (24%);  and  in  the 
respiratory  system-organ  class,  upper  respiratory  infection  (URI)  (34%),  pharyngitis  (23%),  and 
coughing (14%).  
In cross-over to higher dose or more frequent treatment, the 2 groups in which the dosing interval was 
shortened  each  had  a  greater  proportion  of  subjects  with  AEs  (85%  and  83%  in  the  q12  week 
maintenance to 10 mg/kg q8 week group and the q12 week maintenance to 5 mg/kg q8 week group, 
respectively) than the group in which the dose was increased (50%; q8 week maintenance to 10 mg/kg 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
q8 week group). Due to the small numbers of subjects and lack of blinding, no definitive conclusions 
could be reached and no specific reporting patterns could be discerned. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
In  the  REACH  study,  the  proportion  of  all  treated  subjects  with  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  was 
20%. The most frequently reported SAEs (in 2 or more of all treated subjects) were: worsening of CD 
(9%),  intestinal  stenosis  (3%),  and  abdominal  pain,  abscess  and  fever  (2%  each).  No  new  SAEs 
compared with existing adult safety experience were identified.  
There  were  no  deaths,  malignancies,  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  demyelinating  disorders,  optic 
neuritis,  or  seizures  through  week  54  in  the  REACH  study.  Likewise,  no  such  events  were  reported 
through week 20 of study C0168T23 or in study C0168T55. One subject died during the re-treatment 
extension of Study C0168T23, from central respiratory depression due to morphine toxicity 26 weeks 
after the subject’s last re-treatment infusion and approximately 2 weeks after receiving a commercial 
infliximab infusion.  
The  most  commonly  reported  infection  was  URI  (21%),  followed  by  pharyngitis  (15%).  The 
proportion of subjects with AEs noted by their investigator as an infection was higher for subjects in 
the  REACH  q8 week  maintenance  treatment  group  than  for  subjects  in  the  q12  week  maintenance 
treatment group (74% and 38%, respectively).  
By  week  10,  a  greater  proportion  of  the  subjects  who  would  be  randomised  to  the  q8  week 
maintenance treatment group had at least 1 AE reported as an infection than those subjects who would 
be  randomised  to  the  q12  week  maintenance  treatment  group  (32%  and  20%,  respectively),  even 
though they had received identical treatment. This difference was less evident when considering only 
AEs that required treatment (47% and 28%, respectively). 
Through week 54, the proportion of subjects with an URI reported as an AE was similar in the two 
treatment  groups  (36%  and  32%,  respectively),  even  though  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  an  URI 
reported as an infection in the q8 week maintenance treatment group was nearly twice that reported in 
the  q12  week  maintenance  treatment  group  (32%  and  14%,  respectively).  In  this  open-label  study 
subjects  in  the  q8  week  maintenance  treatment  group  were  seen  and  evaluated  for  infection  more 
frequently than those subjects in the q12 week maintenance treatment group. 
With  the  exception  of  abscess,  viral  infection,  and  bronchitis  (all  of  which  occurred  in  a  greater 
proportion of subjects in the q8 week maintenance treatment group) and pharyngitis and fever (both of 
which occurred in a greater proportion of subjects in the q12 week maintenance treatment group), AEs 
were  comparable  in  the  respiratory  and  resistance  system-organ  classes  between  the  2  maintenance 
treatment groups. 
The overall numbers of subjects with at least 1 infection reported as an SAE  were  similar  in the q8 
week and the q12 week maintenance treatment groups, 6% and 8%, respectively.  
In  REACH,  pneumonia  was  reported  in  3  subjects,  2  in  the  q8  week  and  1  in  the  q12  week 
maintenance treatment groups. Herpes zoster was reported in 2 subjects in the q8 week maintenance 
treatment group.  
Only  1  of  the  9  subjects  with  serious  infections  had  an  infection  that  was  not  related  to  CD.  There 
were no reports of TB through week 54. The proportion of infliximab-treated paediatric subjects with 
serious  infections  (in  both  the  REACH  and  C0168T23  studies)  was  higher  than  that  seen  for  adult 
subjects. Although the number of subjects was smaller in these paediatric clinical studies, in general, it 
appears that a higher rate of infections noted to be serious were observed in paediatric subjects with 
CD treated with infliximab than in adult subjects with CD from the ACCENT I study.  
The  proportion  of  infliximab-treated  REACH  paediatric  subjects  with  infusion  reactions  was 
comparable to that for infliximab-treated adult subjects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Results of safety-related laboratory analyses and immune response analyses were unremarkable. The 
proportions of REACH subjects with markedly abnormal ALT (alanine aminotransferase) results were 
comparable  to  those  seen  in  the  adult  ACCENT  I  study  (no  markedly  abnormal  ALT  results  were 
observed in the q8 week maintenance treatment group in REACH). 
Overall,  in  the  REACH  study,  3%  of  subjects  were  positive  for  antibodies  to  infliximab  with  titers 
ranging from 1:10 to 1:40. In the C0168T23 study (through week 20) and C0168T55 study, none of 
the  subjects  developed  detectable  antibodies  to  infliximab.  Of  the  8 subjects  enrolled  in  the  re-
treatment  extension  of  Study  C0168T23,  3  subjects  demonstrated  antibodies  to  infliximab.  Two  of 
these 3 subjects developed both infusions reactions and delayed hypersensitivity reactions.  
The  MAH  was  asked  to  discuss  the  relatively  low  rate  of  antibody  formation  in  these  studies,  as 
compared  to  other  infliximab  studies,  such  as  the  juvenile  idiopathic  arthritis  study  were  the 
percentage  of  patients  with  antibodies  was  30%.  Further  to  the  assessment  of  the  answers  to  the 
request for supplementary information, the CHMP noted that no obvious explanation for the difference 
was identified.  
Supportive Safety Findings 
Through  week  20  of  the  C0168T23  study,  90%  of  all  treated  subjects  had  at  least  1  AE.  The  most 
commonly  reported  AEs  occurred  in  the  GI  (67%),  resistance  mechanism  (48%),  and  respiratory 
(33%)  system-organ  classes.  The  most  commonly  reported  AEs  were  similar  to  those  seen  in  the 
REACH  study,  (worsening  of)  CD  (38%),  nausea  and  URI  (29%  each),  and  vomiting  (24%).  When 
data from subjects who received re-treatment with additional infliximab infusions were included, the 
proportion of subjects and type of AEs were not notably different than those observed during the 20 
weeks  following  the  initial  single  infusion.  Among  the  8  subjects  participating  in  this  re-treatment 
extension, 6 experienced AEs. The most frequently reported AEs were (worsening of) CD (3 subjects), 
and arthralgia, flushing, and nausea (2 subjects each). No AEs were reported in study C0168T55. 
Worldwide Marketing Safety Experience 
Results of the review of serious paediatric adverse events, supplemented with an interim review of all 
paediatric events in the periodic safety update reports, were consistent with the information contained 
in the current prescribing information for infliximab. In the review regarding the postmarketing use of 
infliximab (not from clinical studies), the distribution of AEs reported as serious spontaneous cases in 
the paediatric population was similar to that reported with all serious spontaneous cases. The review of 
postmarketing data suggest, although based on limited data, that children may have increased rates of 
infusion-related or delayed hypersensitivity events (34% reporting rate for the paediatric serious cases 
compared  with  17%  reporting  rate  for  all  serious  cases).  However,  the  infusion  reaction  rate  in 
paediatric REACH subjects with CD was not higher than that observed in ACCENT I in adults with 
CD. 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma 
On 4 May 2006, the MAH submitted a report entitled “Response to the US FDA regarding the sBLA 
for  the  pediatric  Crohn’s  disease  indication:  Report  on  Lymphoma  in  pediatric  and  adults  patients 
treated with Infliximab (Remicade)”. In total, six cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTL) in 
CD patients treated with infliximab had been identified. Five of them were in the age range of 12 – 19 
years. Four of the cases were classified as gamma-delta type T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) 
and  2  of  the  cases  were  classified  as  alpha-beta  T-cell  NHL.  All  patients  had  been  previously  and 
concomitantly  treated  with  an  immunomodulator  (6-MP  or  AZA).  Hepatosplenic  T-cell  lymphoma 
was only recognised as a distinct lymphoma subtype since early 1990’s and was added to the Revised 
European  American  Lymphoma  (REAL)  classification  in  1994.  It  is  therefore  probable  that  this 
lymphoma  was  historically  misclassified.  The  true  incidence  of  this  lymphoma  is  unknown.  As  the 
pathogenesis  of  this  malignancy  still  is  being  elucidated,  there  is  incomplete  knowledge  about  its 
causes  and  predisposing  factors.  In  the  absence  of  a  better  understanding  of  this  newly  described 
disease, it was concluded that it is currently not possible to estimate the background risk of HSTL.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP considered that the reports of HSTL were of medical concern given the nearly universal 
fatal outcome associated with this subtype of T-cell lymphoma and the fact that a causal relationship 
to infliximab treatment could not be excluded. The MAH submitted a type II variation (variation II.84) 
to  update  relevant  sections  of  the  product  information  on  this  finding,  which  received  a  CHMP 
positive opinion in May 2006, and Commission decision in July 2006.  
In June 2006, the MAH organised an expert meeting to discuss the 6 cases of HSTL. The expert panel 
made  some  recommendations  when  not  to  treat  children/adolescents/young  adults  with  infliximab, 
such as in cases of unexplained hepatosplenomegaly with/without B symptoms (fever, fatigue, weight 
loss) and AZA/6-MP induced leukopenia. The conclusions of the expert panel were considered for the 
assessment of this variation.  
By  November  2006,  in  total  8  cases  were  reported  in  patients  with  inflammatory  bowel  disease 
(IBD)..The CHMP considered that the benefit / risk ratio for use of infliximab in paediatric patients 
with moderate to severe, active CD was not yet possible to conclude on, and considered that an ad hoc 
expert group meeting on the use of infliximab in paediatric CD needed to be convened. The meeting 
was held at the EMEA on 30 November 2006, and the overall conclusions, as endorsed by the CHMP 
are described below: 
•  The  benefit  /risk  balance  was  considered  positive  for  use  of  infliximab  in  a  very  restricted 
paediatric  population  with  CD.  It  would  correspond  to  those  having  failed  conventional  therapy 
including a corticosteroid, an immunomodulator and primary nutrition therapy. The description of 
treatment failure was considered important, as a patient with ‘severe’ disease does not necessarily 
respond poorly to 1st or 2nd line therapy.  
•  A  flexible  dose  regimen  was  recommended,  as  experience  has  shown  that  several  patients  need 
treatment more often than every 8 weeks.  
•  The treatment from 6 years of age was recommended.  
•  Monotherapy  was  not  a  favoured  option  due  to  lack  of  data,  and  experience  showing  need  for 
combination therapy to obtain sufficient effect.  
•  Severe CD often is a chronic disease. Maintenance therapy is therefore likely needed, as patients 
in many cases relapse when infliximab is stopped.  
• 
• 
Infliximab was considered a promising tool for the treatment of fistulising disease, but a clinical 
trial in this setting was considered of importance.  
It was considered a need for a clinical trial addressing monotherapy, where also the possibility to 
taper  immunomodulators  could  be  addressed.  Data  on  how  to  use  steroid  to  avoid  infusions 
reactions were also considered of interest. 
•  Setting up registries in the EU was considered crucial. The MAH proposed registry in the United 
States (US) was not considered sufficient e.g. due to different treatment strategies in the EU and 
the US. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  CHMP  considered  that  short-term  safety  in  REACH  was  similar  to  the  adult  experience  even 
though the frequency of infections (and frequency of serious infections) was higher in the paediatric 
population.  However,  it  was  noted  that  the  long-  term  safety  in  this  population  is  not  known,  for 
example, if the risk for malignancies is increased.  
Even  though  the  q8  week  regimen  showed  better  efficacy,  there  were  markedly  more  AEs  in  this 
group  compared  to  the  q12  week  regimen,  especially  infections.  It  seemed  that  for  some  patients 
treatment q12 weeks may be sufficient. There appeared to be a relatively small proportion of patients 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
who  developed  antibodies  and  the  markedly  lower  infection  incidence  in  the  q12  week  treatment 
group  support  that  this  regimen  may  be  justified  in  certain  subjects  for  safety  reasons.  Flexibility 
regarding the infusion interval (8-12 weeks) after an induction treatment was therefore recommended.  
Since there were so few patients treated with 10 mg/kg, the safety of this dose could not be assessed.  
Considering the cases of HSTL, the CHMP expressed concerns pertaining to the concomitant use of 
infliximab with AZA/6-MP. However, the fact that there is a lack of data on infliximab monotherapy 
in this population was noted and the need for a clinical trial to address monotherapy was discussed. It 
was  considered  that  the  general  safety  of  monotherapy  will  be  sufficiently  monitored  within  the 
registry setting. However, in terms of efficacy, the experts at the November 2006 meeting expressed 
doubts  that  infliximab  monotherapy  would  be  sufficiently  effective,  and  that  there  for  many  cases 
would be a need for additive effects of infliximab and an immunomodulator. Such additive effects are 
not unexpected. Furthermore, even if a difference in terms of efficacy would be found in an additional 
trial, such finding would be difficult to interpret and to base detailed prescribing recommendations on, 
particularly considering the third/fourth line indication recommended. Another important factor, which 
may  affect  both  efficacy  and  safety,  is  the  potential  for  increased  development  of  anti-infliximab 
antibodies,  if  infliximab  is  used  as  monotherapy.  Based  on  experience  from  the  juvenile  RA  study 
with  infliximab,  there  are  doubts  that  data  from  adults  are  fully  predictive  for  the  paediatric 
population. However, the MAH proposed to undertake a substudy in the planned registry to investigate 
immunogenicity.  Although  data  from  the  registry  are  likely  to  be  less  sensitive  compared  to  a 
controlled study, it will be possible to collect data from a larger number of subjects than realistically 
could  be  included  in  a  controlled  trial.  As  pointed  out  by  the  MAH;  an  additional  trial  would  be  of 
small size, and given the previous results, only few subjects are expected to develop antibodies, and 
therefore data can be expected to be rather uncertain. Thus, by the MAH’s proposal to undertake these 
analyses in the registry, the uncertainties related to antibody development are considered sufficiently 
addressed.  Given  the  issues  listed  above,  and  the  last  line  indication  where  individualised  treatment 
should be opted for, it is considered acceptable not to require an additional monotherapy study. 
The  CHMP  recommended  that  treatment  should  be  exclusively  for  the  more  severely  ill  paediatric 
patients. Therefore, the indication should not include moderate CD.  
5. 
Risk management plan 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Proposal for assessing long-term safety in children exposed to infliximab. 
Safety Surveillance in Ongoing Studies 
The  MAH  will  continue  safety  surveillance  in  ongoing  programs  in  children  and  adolescents, 
including the 3-year open-label extension (OLE) to the REACH (C0168T47) trial (60 subjects entered 
the OLE) and the 5-year long-term safety follow-up program (RESULTS, C0168T45).  
Paediatric Registry  
The MAH proposed to set up a registry for paediatric CD in the US. The MAH justified that patient 
data  from  this  North  American  registry  would  address  epidemiologic  questions  regarding  children 
exposed  to  infliximab  for  CD  in  Europe.  However,  it  was  noted  that  there  are  somewhat  different 
therapy traditions in the US and EU. Further to the ad hoc expert group meeting, the CHMP discussed 
the need to develop a plan for a registry in the EU. The MAH committed to set up a registry in 3-5 
European countries which would collect data for 20 years on paediatric subjects, noting the comments 
from the CHMP on data collection.  
Periodic Safety Reporting 
The  MAH  will  also  continue  to  report  on  safety  of  paediatric  patients  in  the  postmarketing 
environment  through  regular  surveillance  activities.  The  safety  experience  in  children  treated  with 
infliximab for any indication will continue to be reported in the Experience in Special Patients Groups 
section of the PSUR. Special efforts will be made to collect all available data on postmarketing cases 
of lymphoma (in particular HSTL), non-lymphoma malignancies, and TB. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prescribing Information  
Reference  safety  information  for  infliximab  will  be  revised  on  an  ongoing  basis  to  incorporate  any 
new relevant safety information on the use of infliximab for paediatric patients. 
Risk Minimisation Plan 
The  SPC  serves  as  the  primary  tool  for  risk  minimisation  for  paediatric  CD  patients  treated  with 
infliximab. 
In  2002,  the  MAH  initiated  the  TB  Awareness  and  Educational  program,  which  has  resulted  in  a 
substantial  decrease  in  the  incidence  of  TB  in  Europe.  The  MAH  will  now  expand  the  education 
program to physicians treating paediatric Crohn’s patients 
A summary of the risk management plan for infliximab highlighting the safety concerns specific to the 
paediatric CD population is presented below:  
Safety concern 
Identified Risks 
-  Tuberculosis 
-  Opportunistic 
infections 
Infusion 
reactions 
-  Delayed 
- 
hypersensitivity 
reactions 
-  Auto-immune 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
-  Periodic safety reporting 
-  Prescribing information 
Open label extension from T47 
REACH  
Safety surveillance (Long-Term Safety 
Follow-Up) from adult and paediatric 
studies. 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Product Information texts  
-  Warnings in Section 4.4 of SPC 
-  Listed as ADR in Section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
TB Awareness and Educational Program 
extended and tailored to the new 
paediatric Crohn’s patient population, 
with regular assessment of program 
effectiveness. 
events 
Paediatric Registries 
-  North American Paediatric 
Patient alert card. 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Collaborative Registry.  
-  Paediatric IBD Registry 
(North America & Europe) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Potential risks 
-  Occurrence of 
lymphomas 
including 
hepatosplenic 
T-cell 
lymphoma 
Collection of additional  
Information 
-  Long-term 
safety in 
paediatric 
Crohn’s 
patients 
-  Safety of 
infliximab 
monotherapy / 
infliximab 
episodic 
therapy in 
paediatric 
Crohn’s 
patients 
Product Information texts  
-  Warnings in Section 4.4 of the 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities  Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
-  Periodic safety reporting: the 
MAH will provide updates on 
the number of reported cases of 
HSTCL in the annual 
REMICADE PSUR as well as 
yearly estimates of post-
marketing infliximab exposure 
in Crohn’s disease and 
Ulcerative Colitis by age 
category. 
TB Awareness and Educational Program 
extended and tailored to the new 
paediatric Crohn’s patient population, 
with regular assessment of program 
effectiveness. 
-  Listed as ADR in Section 4.8 of 
the SPC 
SPC 
Medical letter for HSTCL 
Centocor/Schering-Plough Medical 
Affairs have developed a Medical 
Letter for HSTCL, which is 
available to prescribers upon 
request. The Medical Letter, 
which is updated twice per year to 
coincide with the PSURs, 
provides information on the cases 
of HSTCL reported in association 
with infliximab.  
Product Information texts  
-  Statement in Section 4.1 of the 
SPC that infliximab has only 
been studied in combination 
with conventional 
immunosuppressive therapy in 
paediatric Crohn’s patients 
-  Prescribing Information: the 
MAH will re-evaluate the  need 
to change the Remicade Core 
Data Sheet (CDS) and EU 
labelling whenever a new case is 
reported. 
Open label extension from T47 REACH  
Safety surveillance (Long-Term Safety 
Follow-Up) from adult and paediatric 
studies. 
Paediatric Registries 
-  North American Paediatric 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Collaborative Registry. Specific 
questionnaires on lymphoma are 
utilised to obtain additional 
information on these events. 
-  Paediatric IBD Registry (North 
America & Europe) 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
-  Periodic safety reporting 
-  Prescribing Information 
Open label extension from T47 REACH  
Safety surveillance (Long-Term Safety 
Follow-Up) from adult and paediatric 
studies. 
Paediatric Registries 
-  North American Paediatric 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Collaborative Registry 
-  Paediatric IBD Registry (North 
America & Europe). This 
prospective observational 
registry will collect information 
on the dose and frequency of 
infliximab administration. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on risk management plan 
The  additional  proposals  to  address  the  new  population  of  paediatric  CD  include  long-term  safety 
follow  up  with  in  RESULTS,  expanded  risk  minimisation  and  safety  educational  tools,  and  patient 
registries in the US and EU. These were all agreed with.  
With respect  to risk  minimisation, the proposed activities appear appropriate.  Annex II was updated 
regarding  the  conditions  to  ensure  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal  product.  Furthermore, 
the MAH committed to performing the studies and additional pharmacovigilance activities detailed in 
the pharmacovigilance plan.  
In the safety specification provided by the MAH, reference was made to the SPC, PSURs, follow-up 
measures  (FUMs),  among  others,  regarding  a  description  of  the  safety  profile  of  Remicade  (both 
known  and  potential  risks)  in  the  adult  population,  as  it  has  been  reviewed  in  detail  and  is  well 
characterised and described within these documents. The MAH committed to submit an updated RMP 
as  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use, 
covering all indications.  
6. 
Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Crohn’s  disease  often  begins  during  childhood  and  adolescence  with  sometimes  debilitating 
consequences  from  malabsorption  and  low  quality  of  life.  The  MAH  has  performed  a  study  in  112 
paediatric subjects with moderate to severe CD and submitted data up to 54 weeks. Comparisons of 
the two dose regimens (5 mg/kg every 8 or 12 weeks), showed statistically significant difference both 
in  terms  of  clinical  response  and  clinical  remission  at  30  and  54  weeks  versus  placebo.  A  greater 
proportion  of  subjects  randomised  to  the  q8 maintenance  group  achieved  clinical  response  and 
remission as compared to the q12 maintenance group. However, given the lower infection frequency 
in the q12 week group compared with  the q8 week regimen, the possibility to use this regimen was 
considered justified. The relatively limited experience of 10 mg /kg was not considered sufficient to be 
reflected in the posology.  
The steroid dose at baseline in the q12 week group (0.6 mg/kg/day) was twice the dose in the q8 week 
treatment  group  (0.3  mg/kg/day).  This may  imply  that  the  patients  in  the  q12 week  treatment  group 
had  a  more  serious  disease  at  inclusion.  However,  it  is  also  noted  that  there  were  fewer  patients  on 
steroids  in  the  q12  week  group  (12/51)  compared  to  the  q8  week  group  (24/52).  This  is  probably 
explained by the fact that there were more patients in the q12 week group that had a steroid resistant 
disease  or  had  developed  steroid  toxicity.  This  points  to  that  the  q12  week  population  may  have  a 
more severe disease. The MAH was not able to exclude that in their answer.  
A steroid-sparing effect of infliximab therapy was shown and since long-term corticosteroid treatment 
in childhood has well-known side effects (Hyams and Markowitz 2005), the steroid sparing effect may 
be  important  for  long  time  health  benefits  in  children  with  CD.  In  a  small  group  of  patients  (n=38) 
with a 1-year delay in bone age at inclusion improved height status was shown for 17 of those at week 
54. 
There were only 8 patients <10 years in REACH, which may be seen as insufficient to support use in 
children  younger  than  10  years.  Nevertheless,  the  expert  meeting  held  on  30  November  2006 
supported an age range from 6 years of age, and this position was endorsed by the CHMP.  
The pattern and frequency of AEs in the paediatric studies was similar to the safety profile in the adult 
population,  except  that  in  the  REACH  study  there  seemed  to  be  a  higher  frequency  of  serious 
infections  compared  to  ACCENT  I.  However,  there  are  theoretically  additional  risks  in  the  current 
population, due to the treatment of a growing individual.  
In CD in the adult population, infliximab is approved only for severe disease. The CHMP considered 
that  it  is  not  acceptable  to  include  moderate  disease  for  the  paediatric  population  since  long-term 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
safety experience is limited, the finding that children had more frequent infections compared to adults 
and  the  potential  issue  with  hepatosplenic  T-cell  lymphoma.  Furthermore,  the  CHMP  did  not  agree 
with  the  inclusion  of  treatment  of  fistulising  disease  in  the  indication  as  the  data  is  very  limited. 
Notwithstanding this fact, the CHMP agreed with the inclusion of the findings in section 5.1. 
The RMP was accepted, however an update of the RMP including all indications will be presented by 
the MAH in agreed timelines. The MAH expanded the planned registry in the US, to include 10-15 
sites  in  3-5  EU  member  states.  The  patient  follow  up  will  be  20  years.  Additionally,  a  substudy  to 
assess immunogenicity in the registry was proposed. Overall, the planned registry was endorsed and 
encouraged. Minor comments regarding data collection could be taken into account.  
The  proposed  risk  minimisation  activities  included  in  the  RMP  were  considered  appropriate.  The 
CHMP considered that the conditions regarding the safe and effective use should be reflected in the 
annex II. 
Concerning the studies on episodic treatment the MAH referred to the fact that episodic treatment is to 
be investigated in the adult population with UC and psoriasis. The CHMP considered of importance to 
study episodic treatment in this population considering the long life time expectancy in young patients 
and thus that the need for treatment may change considerably during life-time. Considering the rapid 
onset of effect of infliximab together with the safety profile and especially the high risk of infections, 
it  is  not  justified  to  recommend  maintenance  treatment  year  after  year.  Decreasing  exposure  to  or 
stopping infliximab in patients with stable disease or in remission were proposed by the expert panel 
organised by the MAH in June 2006, as one option to reduce the risk for HSTL. The MAH proposed 
to study episodic treatment within the registry setting, and intend to submit a protocol early next year. 
This approach was considered acceptable.  
All patients were treated with immunomodulators at inclusion in the REACH study. This may explain 
the quite low frequency of infliximab antibodies (approximately 3%) compared to the adult population 
in the ACCENT I study (approximately 15%). The MAH was not in favour of restricting the treatment 
to  a  combination  with  immunomodulators  but  recommended  to  leave  the  decision  to  the  treating 
physician. One reason for this position was the recent reports of HSTL, and the potential link between 
the  combined  treatment  and  these  events.  However,  since  all  patients  in  the  REACH  study  were 
treated with immunomodulators, there are no controlled data on monotherapy. Although there was a 
small  subset  of  patients  treated  with  MTX  in  combination  with  infliximab  in  REACH,  there  are 
insufficient  data  to  recommend  MTX  as  the  specific  concomitant  immunomodulator  to  use.  Each 
therapeutic option must be assessed by the treating physician. The experts participating in the meeting 
on  30  November  2006, were  of  the  opinion that  infliximab  monotherapy  was  often  not  sufficient  to 
obtain  adequate  response.  They  generally  questioned  monotherapy  as  an  option,  also  due  to  lack  of 
data  regarding  efficacy  and  safety  of  monotherapy  in  the  paediatric  population.  The  MAH  strongly 
argued  against  undertaking  a  monotherapy  trial.  Several  of  the  problems  identified  by  the MAH  are 
acknowledged,  and  understood.  Further,  since  the  MAH  proposed  to  monitor  immunogenicity  in  a 
substudy in the registry, one of the main uncertainties with monotherapy, i.e. antibody development, 
will be further studied. Taken together and considering the third/fourth line indication which the MAH 
has agreed to, the lack of a commitment for an additional monotherapy study was accepted.  
The experts participating in the meeting on 30 November 2006, reported that the use corticosteroids 
and  anti-histamines  for  premedication  is  common  in  clinical  practise  because  infusion  reaction  are 
observed  and  the  treating  physicians  opt  for  continued  treatment.  Further  information  on  the  use  of 
premedication may increase the possibility for monotherapy is of interest. The MAH will explore this 
in  the  planned  registry  setting.  At  present,  there  is  insufficient  data  to  amend  the  current  SPC  with 
respect to use of premedication. 
In  conclusion,  the  REACH  study  has  shown  that  Remicade  is  effective  in  treating  children  with 
moderate to severe CD, but several issues were identified in previous assessments which needed to be 
further addressed. After having considered the view of the expert meeting held on 30 November 2006, 
the benefit /risk balance for use of Remicade in a very restricted population is positive.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV. 
 CONCLUSION 
On  22  March  2007  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet  
 
 
 
 
 
 
