London, 1 June 2006 
Product name: REMICADE 
Procedure number: Remicade-H-240-II-73-AR 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine IgG1κ monoclonal antibody, which binds to both soluble and 
transmembrane forms of the human tumour necrosis factor (TNF)α and inhibits the functional activity 
of TNFα.  
Remicade (infliximab) is  currently  approved  for the  treatment of  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA), Crohn’s 
disease  (CD),  ankylosing  spondylitis  (AS),  psoriatic  arthritis  (PsA),  psoriasis  and  ulcerative  colitis 
(UC).  
PsA is an inflammatory arthropathy associated with psoriasis, which is classified within the group of 
the spondyloarthritis. Psoriasis affects 1-3% of the population, with approximately a third of patients 
developing PsA. The estimated prevalence of PsA ranges between 0.1% and 1%. PsA can develop at 
any time, but for most people it appears between the ages of 30 and 50, and it affects men and women 
equally.  The  outcome  of  the  disease  varies  from  low  activity  to  severe  disabling  disease  including 
mutilating joint disease. 
On 23 September 2004, the MAH received the approval for the use of infliximab in combination with 
methotrexate (MTX) for the treatment of active and progressive PsA, in patients who had responded 
inadequately to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs).  
In  November  2005,  the  MAH  submitted  the  present  variation  to  include  improvement  of  physical 
function  and  prevention  of  worsening  of  disability  claims.  Additionally,  the  MAH  proposed  a 
monotherapy claim in patients who show intolerance to MTX or for whom MTX is contraindicated. 
To support this variation the MAH referred to 2 randomised, multicentre, placebo-controlled trials in 
patients with active PsA, IMPACT (P02114), and IMPACT 2 (C0168T50).  
The  MAH  proposed  to  amend  the  text  of  the  SPC  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.5,  4.8  and  5.1  to  reflect  the 
revised indication, and to update the PL accordingly. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
To  support  the  new  revision  of  the  PsA  indication,  the  MAH  provided  new  clinical  data  and  made 
reference to already assessed data, as detailed below:  
Study P02114 (IMPACT)  
IMPACT  was  a  multicentre  study  in  adults  above  18  years  of  age  with  PsA  and  peripheral 
polyarticular  arthritis  who  had  failed  at  least  1  DMARD.  The  study  design  included  a  16-week, 
randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled treatment (Stage I), followed by a 34-week, open-label 
treatment period (Stage II). This study was assessed as part of the initial variation application for the 
PsA indication (variation II.46), and was approved on 23 September 2004.  
Further to the granting of the PsA indication, the MAH submitted as post authorisation commitments 
antibody data  in October 2004 and the 2-year open label extension study from IMPACT  in February 
2005.  
Study C0168T50 (IMPACT 2)  
IMPACT  2  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled  study.  In  the  24-week 
report,  assessed  as  part  of  the  type  II.46  variation  application  (and  FUM  087  submitted  in  October 
2004), the primary endpoint evaluated was the proportion of subjects with ACR 20 response1 at week 
14. The MAH submitted the 66-week data for assessment within the present type II variation.  
1 The ACR response criteria were developed for RA. The ACR20 criteria is defined as a ≥20% reduction in the tender joint 
count, a ≥20% reduction in the swollen joint count and a ≥20% reduction in 3 of 5 additional measures: a) patient assessment 
of pain, b) patient global assessment of disease activity, c) physician global assessment of disease activity, d) disability index 
of the health assessment questionnaire (HAQ) and, e) acute phase reactant. 
2/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Details  of  the  initial  assessment  can  be  found  in  Module  6  “scientific  discussion”  of  the  European 
public assessment report (EPAR).  
2.1 Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Serum was collected in a subset of subjects at baseline and weeks 2, 14 and 24 in IMPACT 2. Baseline 
serum  levels  markers  of  inflammation  and  bone  metabolism  were  generally  comparable  between 
treatment  groups.  Infliximab  reduced  serum  levels  of  interleukin  1  receptor  antagonist  (IL-1Ra), 
soluble  interleukin  2  receptor  (sIL-2R),  IL-6,  matrix  metalloproteinase  3  (MMP-3)  and  vascular 
endothelial  growth  factor  (VEGF),  inflammatory  markers  that  have  been  associated  with  disease 
activity in PsA, as early as 2 weeks following the initiation of treatment. These changes were generally 
sustained  through  week  24.  In  contrast,  the  serum  levels  of  markers  of  bone  metabolism,  reflecting 
either  the  formation  or  resorption  of  bone,  were  not  notably  changed  following  treatment  with 
infliximab over a period of 24 weeks. 
Further  to  the  request  for  supplementary  information,  the  MAH  presented  literature  evidence  to 
indicate that  short treatment with  infliximab  reduced  the  number  of T-cells and blood  vessels in the 
synovium and psoriatic skin.  
2.2 Clinical efficacy  
IMPACT 2 (66 week data) 
Study participants 
The study participants were adults above 18 years of age, with a diagnosis of active polyarticular (5 or 
more  joints  involved)  peripheral  PsA  for  at  least  6  months  prior  to  the  first  infusion,  who  had 
inadequate  response  to  DMARD  or  non  steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drug  (NSAID)  therapy. 
Concomitant MTX at stable doses was permitted, but not required.  
Two hundred subjects were enrolled, of which the majority (61%) were men (71% in infliximab and 
51%  in  placebo),  Caucasian  (95%),  and  the  median  age  was  47 years  of  age.  With  the  exception  of 
sex, all baseline characteristics were balanced between treatment groups.  
The median PsA duration was approximately 6 years and the median psoriasis duration was 13 years. 
At baseline, 46% of subjects were taking MTX, 13% were taking corticosteroids, and 72% were taking 
NSAIDs.  
All 200 subjects were analyzed for safety, efficacy, and health economics. 
Treatments 
Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  (1:1)  to  infusions  of  infliximab  (5  mg/kg)  or  placebo  at  weeks 
0, 2, and  6,  followed  by  maintenance  doses  every  8  weeks  up  to  week  46.  The  study  included  a 
placebo-controlled  phase  (0  to  24  weeks)  and  a  blinded  active  treatment  phase  (24  to  54  weeks). 
Crossover  of  subjects  from  placebo  to  infliximab  therapy  occurred  at  week  16  (early  escape)  or 
week 24 (crossover).  At  week  38,  subjects  initially  randomized  to  infliximab  who  had  <  20% 
improvement from  baseline in the total number of combined tender and swollen joints were eligible 
for dose escalation to infliximab 10 mg/kg. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In  the  24-week  report,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  evaluated  was  the  proportion  of  subjects  with 
ACR 20 response at week 14.  
3/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the 66-week report, the primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy of infliximab in subjects with 
active polyarticular PsA by assessing reduction in signs and symptoms of arthritis and prevention of 
structural damage. The primary endpoint was the change from baseline in the total modified van der 
Heijde modified Sharp (vdH-S)2 score at week 24.  
The major secondary efficacy endpoints were to evaluate the efficacy of infliximab in:  
 - achieving the ACR 20 sustained response 
 - achieving the PsA response criteria (PsARC)3 
 - clearing psoriatic skin lesions 
 - improving quality of life in subjects with PsA.  
Concomitant treatment 
Stable  doses  of  MTX  (mg/week)  and  oral  corticosteroids  (mg/day  prednisone  or  equivalent)  were 
permitted  for  PsA  during  the  study.  Subjects  were  required  to  maintain  their  baseline  dose  through 
week 54. Despite that, MTX and corticosteroid doses were changed in some of the subjects based on 
investigator  clinical  judgment.  DMARDs/systemic  immunosuppressives  other  than  MTX  were  not 
allowed within the 4 weeks prior to the first study infusion and during the course of the study. 
At  least  1  DMARD  was  taken  by  the  majority  (80%)  of  subjects  prior  to  study  start.  More  than 
2 DMARDs  were  used  by  11%  of  the  subjects.  A  smaller  proportion  of  subjects  used 
immunosuppressives  (11%)  or  systemic  corticosteroids  (29%).  NSAIDs  were  used  by  82%  of  all 
subjects for their PsA. 
Statistical Design 
The statistical design was considered appropriate.  
Results 
Patients disposition 
With the exception of gender, demographics were generally well balanced between treatment groups. 
Baseline disease characteristics indicated a population of subjects with active PsA disease.  
The CHMP noted that the inclusion criteria with regards to psoriatic skin disease were less stringent 
that  those  applied  in  other  studies  with  infliximab  addressing  skin  psoriasis.  The  mean/median 
psoriatic skin disease activity at baseline was rather low, and on a group levels corresponded to mild 
form  of  disease.  Out  of  the  200  subjects  included,  86%  had  body  surface  area  (BSA)  >3%.  Among 
those the median BSA% was 10 [IQ range 5, 22] and median psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) 
score 6.7 [IQ range 3.6, 13.7]. This should be compared with the base line characteristics in EXPRESS 
(a study evaluating the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults), where among all 
subjects (n=375), affected BSA (%) was 34 + 19 (mean + SD) or 29 [19, 44] (median [IQ range]), and 
the PASI score was 22.9 + 9.2 (mean + SD) or 21 [16, 27] (median [IQ range]). 
Forty-seven percent and 9% of the subjects in the placebo and infliximab groups, respectively, entered 
early escape at week 16. 
2 The vDH-S score is a detailed scoring method evaluating erosions, joint space narrowing, (sub)luxation, ankylosis, gross 
osteolysis, and pencil in cup phenomena. 
3 PsARC response is defined as improvement in at least two of the following four criteria:  
a) ≥20% improvement in physician global assessment of disease activity, b) ≥20% improvement in patient global assessment 
of disease activity, c) ≥30% improvement in tender joint count and d) ≥30% improvement in swollen joint count. One of the 
criteria improved has to be tenderness joint count (TJC) or swollen joint counts (SJC) and no worsening in any of the criteria 
should be observed. 
4/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
Efficacy results 
Primary and secondary endpoints 
Efficacy  was  demonstrated  for  all  primary  endpoints.  Table  1  below  presents  the  ACR  20  at  week 
14 (primary endpoint). Fifty eight percent of patients achieved ACR 20 at week 14 (p<0.001). Further 
ACR 20, 50 and 70 responders were analysed at various time points.  
Table 1 
Summary of ACR response over time in IMPACT 2 
ACR response 
n 
ACR 20 response 
ACR 50 response 
ACR 70 response 
Week 14a  Week 24a 
IMPACT 2 
Week 54b 
100 
58.0% 
36.0% 
15.0% 
100 
54.0% 
41.0% 
27.0% 
90 
58.9% 
36.7% 
22.2% 
a Responses are based on all subjects randomised to infliximab. 
b Responses are based on all subjects randomised to infliximab with evaluable data at week 54. 
Table 2 presents the summary of ACR response over time in IMPACT.  
Table 2 
Summary of ACR response over time in IMPACT 
ACR response 
n 
ACR 20 response 
ACR 50 response 
ACR 70 response 
Week 16a  Week 50b 
IMPACT  
Week 98b 
52 
65.4% 
46.2% 
28.8% 
78 
73.1% 
50.0% 
39.7% 
78 
61.5% 
44.9% 
34.6% 
a Based on all subjects randomised to infliximab 
b Based on all subjects who entered the year 2 extension. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  infliximab  group  in  IMPACT  2  who  achieved  PsARC  at  week 
54 was 74% compared with 70% at week 24. The proportion of subjects in the infliximab group (with 
BSA ≥ 3% at baseline) who achieved ≥ 75% improvement in PASI from baseline at week 54 was 49% 
compared with 60% at week 24.  
The median improvement from baseline in the quality of life questionnaire (both physical and mental 
components summary score) for the infliximab group was maintained from week 24 to week 54.  
A major clinical response (defined as achieving an ACR 70 response for 24 consecutive weeks) was 
achieved by 12% of infliximab treated subjects at week 54. 
At weeks 14, 24, and 54, the proportion of subjects in the infliximab group who achieved ≥ 0.3 units 
decrease  in  HAQ  was  58%,  54%,  and  59%,  respectively.  In  subjects  who  achieved  ≥  0.3  units 
decrease in HAQ at week 14 or at week 24, 74% and 89%, respectively, maintained this decrease at 
week 54. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  significant  and  rapid  responses  initially  observed  in  arthritis  and  psoriasis  outcomes  in 
IMPACT 2 through 6 months and in IMPACT through 1 year, were maintained through the end of the 
respective studies. Efficacy, as measured by the more stringent ACR 50 and ACR 70 responses, was 
also  evident.  Multiple  additional  efficacy  measurements  in  the  2  studies  support  the  maintenance  of 
infliximab therapy over 1 to 2 years. Dactylitis and enthesopathy, 2 disease-characteristic features of 
PsA, also demonstrated sustained responses.  
5/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At week 2 (after the first infusion of infliximab) in IMPACT 2, 7% of infliximab subjects compared 
with 0 subjects in the placebo group achieved ≥ 75% improvement in PASI from baseline (p = 0.011). 
In  both  IMPACT  2  and  IMPACT,  a  high  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  ≥  50%,  ≥  75%,  and 
≥ 90% improvement in PASI from baseline at 6 months in IMPACT 2 and 1 year in IMPACT, and the 
substantial PASI responses were sustained through 1 and 2 years in the respective studies.  
The  MAH  also  applied  for  a  monotherapy  claim  in  patients  who  show  intolerance  to  MTX  or  for 
whom  MTX  is  contraindicated.  A  sub-group  analysis  of  the  data  indicates  efficacy  of  infliximab  in 
patients  without  baseline  use  of  MTX.  The  data  derived  from  study  IMPACT  2  were  considered 
sufficient  to  support  the  use  of  infliximab  in  patients  who  have  contraindications  to  MTX  or  are 
intolerant to MTX.  
Efficacy  in  terms  of  reduction  of  signs  and  symptoms  (ACR  responses)  as  well  as  better  physical 
function  (HAQ  scores)  was  demonstrated  at  the  time  points  for  the  primary  efficacy  analyses. 
Therefore, it was considered that the data provided supported sustained effect.  
2.3 Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Through week 54, the safety population included 98 subjects who received placebo; 91 subjects in the 
placebo  group  who  entered  early  escape  to  infliximab  5  mg/kg  treatment  at  week  16  or  placebo 
subjects  who  crossed  over  to  infliximab  5  mg/kg  at  week  24;  100  subjects  who  received  infliximab 
5 mg/kg  throughout  or  subjects  in  the  5  mg/kg  group  who  received  dose  escalation  to  10  mg/kg 
infliximab at week 38. Thus, the combined infliximab group includes 191 subjects who received any 
infusion of infliximab. The average number  of  weeks  of follow-up  was  approximately 43  weeks  for 
the combined infliximab group versus 20 weeks for the placebo group.  
Adverse events (AE) 
Overview of AE 
The  safety  profile  of  infliximab  through  week  54  was  consistent  with  the  safety  profile  observed 
through week 24. The proportion of subjects experiencing an AE was 85% in the combined infliximab 
group. The most frequently reported AE was upper respiratory tract infection, which occurred in 24% 
of subjects in the combined infliximab group. The frequency of AEs in the combined infliximab group 
was similar between subjects who received MTX and who those who did not receive MTX at baseline. 
Serious adverse events (SAE) and deaths 
Approximately  12%  of  subjects  experienced  an  SAE  in  the  combined  infliximab  group.  The  most 
common were the musculo-skeletal system disorders (including arthritis and bone fracture, reported by 
3 patients each). One subject experienced arterial stenosis following dose escalation. 
Discontinuations 
Through week 54, 21% subjects discontinued the study. Sixteen subjects in the combined infliximab 
group permanently discontinued study agent infusions due to an AE. Elevated liver function tests were 
the most frequent reasons for discontinuing infliximab treatment. 
Specific adverse events 
Infections  
The  proportion of subjects who had  at least 1 infection was 55% in the combined infliximab group; 
upper  respiratory  tract  infection  was  the  most  common  infection.  The  frequency  of  infections  in  the 
combined  infliximab group was similar in subjects who received MTX and who did not receive MTX 
at baseline. 
6/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious  infections  occurred  in  2%  of  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  (cellulitis  and  bronchitis),  and 
3% of  subjects  in  the  infliximab  only  group  (infectious  hepatitis,  cellulitis  and  pneumonia).  Despite 
the  discrepancy  in  follow-up  between  the  placebo  groups,  there  was  not  an  increased  occurrence  of 
serious  infections  in  the  infliximab  group.  There  were  no  events  of  tuberculosis  or  potential 
opportunistic infections.  
Infusion reactions 
The  infusion  reaction  rate  with  infliximab  infusions  was  2%  for  the  combined  infliximab  group  (in 
total  1376  infliximab  infusions  were given);  12%  of subjects in this  group  had an infusion  reaction. 
The  majority  of  infusion  reactions  were  mild  in  intensity;  there  were  no  serious  infusion  reactions. 
There were no possible anaphylactic reactions or possible delayed hypersensitivity reactions.  
Subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  group  who  were  receiving  MTX  at  baseline  were  less  likely  to 
experience  infusion  reactions  (6%)  compared  with  subjects  not  receiving  MTX  at  baseline  (17%). 
Subjects treated with placebo had a similar incidence of infusion reactions regardless of baseline MTX 
usage  (9%  of  subjects  receiving  MTX  at  baseline  versus  6%  of  subjects  not  receiving  MTX  at 
baseline).  
Malignancies  
There  were  2  malignancies  reported:  1  basal  cell  carcinoma  (placebo  only  subject)  and  1  stage  I 
Hodgkin’s lymphoma (infliximab only subject).  
Other AE of interest  
There was 1 case of leukopenia, a haematologic event, and 3 neurologic events of interest. There were 
no autoimmune disorders, central demyelinating events, or occurrences of congestive heart failure. 
Laboratory findings 
Treatment with infliximab had no clinically significant adverse effects on haematologic values. With 
the exception of elevations in ALT and AST, the proportion of subjects with markedly abnormal post-
baseline  chemistry  values  was  very  low  and  comparable  between  treatment  groups.  Markedly 
abnormal  ALT  and  AST  values  occurred  in  4%  and  2%  of  subjects,  respectively,  in  the  combined 
infliximab  group.  A  markedly  abnormal  gamma  glutamyltransferase  (GGT)  value  was  reported  in 
4% of subjects in the combined infliximab group. No subjects had a markedly abnormal total bilirubin. 
Infliximab  treated  subjects  with  elevations  in  ALT  or  AST  did  not  develop  liver  failure.  More 
infliximab-treated subjects not receiving MTX at baseline had a markedly abnormal ALT or AST as 
compared with infliximab treated subjects receiving MTX at baseline. Similarly, more subjects in the 
combined infliximab group who were not receiving MTX at baseline had an ALT or AST value that 
shifted from normal to high. 
The proportion of subjects who were newly positive for ANA (defined by ≥ 1:160 titer) through week 
66 was 41% in the combined infliximab group. The proportion of these subjects who became newly 
positive for anti-dsDNA antibodies was 9% in the combined infliximab group.  
Antibodies 
Among the combined infliximab group, 15% were positive for antibodies to infliximab through week 
66. In subjects receiving MTX at baseline, 4% tested positive for antibodies to infliximab compared 
with 26% who were not receiving MTX at baseline. 
7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical safety 
From the one-year data of IMPACT 2 no new safety signals are apparent. However, the CHMP noted 
that  concomitant  use  of  MTX  with  infliximab  resulted  in  lower  incidences  of  antibodies  as  well  as 
infusion  reactions.  Furthermore,  infusion  reactions  were  approximately  3 times  more  common  in 
subjects on monotherapy (17%), compared with those receiving infliximab together with MTX (6%). 
This finding is similar to the previous experience with infliximab.  
3. 
Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
In September 2004, infliximab was approved for treatment of PsA, based on data from IMPACT. For 
the  present  application,  the  MAH  applied  for  a  revision  of  the  indication,  based  on  results  from  an 
additional study, IMPACT 2.  
In  IMPACT  2,  efficacy  in  terms  of  reduction  of  signs  and  symptoms  (ACR  responses)  was 
demonstrated at the different time points.  
With  respect  to the  monotherapy option, data  have now been submitted, which  support efficacy  and 
general  safety  profiles  irrespective  of  concomitant  MTX.  However,  the  data  showed,  as  also  known 
from  previously  submitted  data,  that  concomitant  use  of  infliximab  and  MTX  reduces  antibody 
development,  as  well  as  results  in  lower  incidences  of  infusion  reactions.  Thus,  the  proposal  by  the 
MAH to recommend monotherapy only in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom 
methotrexate is contraindicated, was endorsed. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk 
minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information.  
IV. 
 CONCLUSION 
On  1  June  2006  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet.  
8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
