London, 26 January 2006 
Product name: REMICADE 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/240/II/65 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Infliximab  is  a  chimeric  human-murine  IgG1κ  monoclonal  antibody,  which  binds  to  both 
soluble and transmembrane forms of the human tumour necrosis factor (TNF)α and inhibits 
the functional activity of TNFα.  
Remicade  (infliximab)  is  currently  approved  for  the  treatment  of  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA), 
Crohn’s disease (CD), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and psoriasis. 
Ulcerative  colitis  (UC)  is  a  mucosal  disease  that  usually  involves  the  rectum  and  extends 
proximally  to  involve  all  or  part  of  the  colon.  About  40  to  50%  of  patients  have  disease 
limited to the rectum and rectosigmoid, 30 to 40% have disease extending beyond the sigmoid 
but not involving the whole colon, and 20% have a total colitis. The peak age of onset of UC 
is between 15 and 30 years. The male to female ratio for UC is 1:1.  
The  core  therapy  for  mild  to  moderate  UC  is  sulfasalazine  and  5-ASA  (5-aminosalicylate) 
compounds.  These  agents  are  effective  at  inducing  remission  in  UC  and  in  maintaining 
remission in  UC.  The  majority of  patients with  moderate to  severe UC  benefit from  oral  or 
parenteral  corticosteroids.  Azathioprine  (AZA)  or  6-MP  (6-mercaptopurine)  have  been 
employed  successfully  as  corticosteroids-sparing  agents  in  up  to  two-thirds  of  UC  patients 
previously unable to be weaned from corticosteroids. However, despite active treatment, up to 
50%  of  the  patients  have  exacerbations  where  surgery  is  currently  the  only  possible 
alternative.  One  may  think  that  proctocolectomy  might  cure  UC,  but  many  patients 
experience social impairment and also side effects from surgery.  
TNFα is a highly expressed cytokine in inflamed UC tissue. Systemic and local gut TNFα are 
elevated in UC and TNFα producing lamina propria cells have been reported to be present in 
UC and to be associated with disease activity.  
The MAH submitted 2 clinical studies (ACT 1 and ACT 2) conducted in patients with UC to 
support the application for an extension of indication. Based on those, the MAH proposed to 
extend  the  indication  for  Remicade  to  include  the  treatment  of  patients  with  moderately  to 
severely active UC.  
The  MAH  proposed  to  amend  the  text  of  the  SPC  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.4,  and  5.1  with  the 
results of the above-mentioned studies, and to update the PL accordingly. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
To  support  the  new  indication,  the  MAH  submitted  2  clinical  studies  (ACT  1  and  ACT  2), 
designed  primarily  for  the  evaluation  of  efficacy  and  safety  of  infliximab  in  patients  with 
active UC. 
•  Study C0168T37 (ACT 1): 54-week study of 364 subjects, designed as a randomised, 
placebo-controlled, double blind trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of infliximab 
in patients with active UC.  
•  Study C0168T46 (ACT 2): 30-week study of 364 subjects designed as a randomised, 
placebo-controlled, double blind trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of infliximab 
in patients with active UC.  
2/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics (PK) 
PK  analyses  were  performed  in  both  studies,  on  pooled  data  from  484  infliximab  treated 
subjects  through  week  30.  Dose-dependent  median  serum  infliximab  concentrations  were 
observed following multiple infusions of 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg infliximab. Subjects treated 
with infliximab and 6-MP/AZA, with or without corticosteroids, generally had higher serum 
infliximab  concentrations  compared  with  subjects  treated  with  infliximab  with  5-ASA 
compounds or corticosteroids only. These higher infliximab concentrations were more evident 
in  the  5  mg/kg  group.  This  may  be  related  to  higher  incidence  of  antibody  development  in 
subjects not treated with immunomodulators.  
Improvement in clinical signs and symptoms was observed in both dose groups at week 30. 
However, higher median serum infliximab trough concentrations at week 30 were associated 
with greater improvement in the Mayo1 score. 
The PK data indicate a correlation between serum levels and sustained efficacy. The CHMP 
noted that the correlation between development of antibodies and its relation to serum levels 
and loss of efficacy and also to hypersensitivity reactions are of interest to follow. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The MAH presented a review of available literature.  
The  literature  review  showed  that  TNFα  is  highly  expressed  in  gut  tissue  in  UC,  and  thus 
supported TNFα as a suitable therapeutic target for UC, which has been confirmed by the use 
of  the  anti-TNFα  monoclonal  antibody  infliximab  in  several  clinical  studies  (Sands,  2001; 
Chey, 2001; Järnerot, 2005; ACT-1 and ACT-2).  
2.2 
 Clinical efficacy  
ACT 1 and ACT 2 
Study participants 
The  study  participants  were  adults  above  18  years  of  age,  with  active  UC  at  baseline,  as 
defined  by  a  Mayo  score  between  6  and  12  points.  Patients  must  have  had  endoscopic 
evidence of active colitis (endoscopy subscore of ≥2) and at least 1 of the following criteria: 
a) current treatment with at least 1 of the following:  
ACT 1: oral corticosteroids, 6-MP, or AZA 
ACT 2: oral corticosteroids, 6-MP, AZA or 5-ASA compounds. 
b)  failed to  successfully taper, tolerate,  or respond to  oral corticosteroids within the  past  18 
months. 
1 The Mayo score (Schroeder et al, 1987) was developed from the criteria of Truelove and Witts (1955) for mild, 
moderate, and severe ulcerative colitis; and from the criteria of Baron et al (1964) for grading mucosal appearance. 
It consists of the following 4 subscores: 
• Stool frequency 
• Rectal bleeding 
• Findings of endoscopy 
• Physician’s global assessment 
Each  subscore  was  rated  on  a  scale  from  0  to  3,  indicating  normal  to  severe  activity.  The  Mayo  score  was 
calculated as the sum of the 4 subscores and thus ranged from 0 to 12. The partial Mayo score is the Mayo score 
without the endoscopy subscore and ranged from 0 to 9. 
3/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
c) failed to tolerate or respond to: 
ACT 1: 6-MP or AZA within the previous 5 years.  
ACT 2: 6-MP or AZA within the previous 5 years, and failed to respond to 5-ASA 
compounds within the previous 18 months. 
The  majority  of  subjects  were  men  (60%),  Caucasian  (94%)  and  the  median  age  was  39.5 
years.  
At baseline, a total of 11% of subjects had Mayo scores of 11 or 12 indicating severe disease, 
and  88%  of  subjects  had  Mayo  scores  of  6-10,  indicating  moderate  disease.  Three  subjects 
had a Mayo score <6 at baseline and were recorded as protocol violators.  
At  the  time  of  enrolment,  98%  of  subjects  had  a  history  of  treatment  with  corticosteroids, 
74% had received immunomodulatory agents, and 98% had received 5-ASA compounds. At 
their  baseline visit, 56% were receiving corticosteroids, 46% were receiving 6-MP or AZA, 
and 72% were receiving 5-ASA compounds. 
Baseline disease characteristics were generally similar between treatment groups 
Treatments 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio, to each of 3 treatment groups: 
Group I:  
Group II:  
Group III:  
Placebo (n=244) 
Infliximab 5 mg/kg (n=242) 
Infliximab 10 mg/kg (n=242) 
The  subjects  received  induction  infusions  at  weeks  0,  2,  and  6,  followed  by  maintenance 
infusions every 8 weeks (up to week 46 in ACT 1 and week 22 in ACT 2). Stable doses of 
corticosteroids, 6-MP/AZA, or 5-ASA compounds were allowed, during the study. Tapering 
of corticosteroids was allowed following the week 8 study visit. 
Subjects completing treatment through week 46 (ACT 1) and week 22 (ACT 2), who, in the 
investigator’s opinion could benefit from continued treatment, were allowed to enter a study 
extension beginning at week 54 and week 30, respectively.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint in both trials was clinical response at week 8. Clinical response 
was  defined  as  decrease  from  baseline  in  the  Mayo  score  by  ≥30%  and  ≥3   points, 
accompanied by a decrease in the rectal bleeding subscore of ≥1 or a rectal bleeding subscore 
of 0 or 1. 
A  number  of  other  secondary  endpoints  were  studied  including  clinical  remission  and 
mucosal  healing  at  weeks  8  and  30,  and  quality  of  life  assessments  (IBDQ,  SF-36  and 
EQ-5D). Clinical remission was defined as a Mayo ≤ 2 points, with no individual subscore > 
1. Mucosal healing was defined by an endoscopy subscore (from the Mayo score) of 0 or 1. 
The chosen efficacy endpoints were considered as relevant to evaluate efficacy in UC patients 
with moderate to severe disease activity. 
Concomitant treatment 
During  both  clinical  trials,  concomitant  treatment  with  corticosteroids,  immunomodulatory 
agents, antibiotics and symptomatic agents was allowed 
4/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  provided  data  on  treatments  given  at  randomisation.  In  the  two  trials,  7-10%  of 
patients  had  received  cyclosporine  prior  to  enrolment.  Approximately  24%  of  patients  had 
neither  corticosteroids  nor  immunomodulators  at  baseline.  These  figures  indicated  that  this 
patient  group  has  a  less  severe  disease.  On  the  other  hand  about  16%  of  patients  had  both 
corticosteroids  ≥20  mg  and  immunomodulators.  These  patients  probably  had  a  more  severe 
disease  and  may  be  steroid-dependent.  Another  20%  of  patients  were  on  ≥20  mg 
corticosteroids  but  no  immunomodulators.  Thus,  up  to  approximately  35%  of  patients 
included was steroid-dependent, which is a patient group where there is need for alternative 
treatment  to  reduce  side  effects  of  high  doses  of  steroids  and  maybe  bring  down  the 
colectomy rate. The data provided by the MAH was considered acceptable. 
Statistical Design 
Approximately 360 subjects were enrolled in each of the studies. The method used for sample 
size calculation was considered acceptable.  
Patients were randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio (see Treatment section above).  
The measures taken for blinding were satisfactory.  
Results 
Patients disposition 
The studies had nearly identical populations, similar dosing regimens, and identical primary 
and major secondary endpoints. Thus, the data from ACT 1 and ACT 2 were pooled. In the 
pooled  data,  a  total  of  34%  of  subjects  permanently  discontinued  study  infusions,  with 
approximately twice as many subjects in the placebo group (50%) than in either the 5 mg/kg 
or 10mg/kg infliximab groups.  
The  same  pattern  was  seen  for  discontinuation  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  (a  total  of  25%,  and 
placebo, 37%). Similar data were found in both individual studies.  
Efficacy results 
Primary endpoint (clinical response at week 8) 
Table 1: Clinical response at week 8a,b 
Clinical 
response at 
week 8 
ACT 1 
ACT 2 
Placebo 
Infliximab 
Combined 
N=121 
37.2% 
N=123 
29.3% 
5 mg/kg 
N=121 
69.4% 
N=121 
64.5% 
10 mg/kg 
N=122 
61.5% 
N=120 
69.2% 
N=243 
65.4% 
N=241 
66.8% 
Pooled data 
N=244 
33.2% 
N=242 
66.9% 
<0.001 
p-value 
a subjects who had a prohibited change in medication, had an ostomy or colectomy, 
discontinued study infusions due to lack of efficacy, or had insufficient data are considered to 
not be in clinical response  
b Analysis is stratified by corticosteroid refractory status and centre location 
N=484 
66.1% 
<0.001 
N=242 
65.3% 
<0.001 
5/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose regimen with either 5 or 10 mg/kg infliximab infusions at week 0, 2 and 6 followed 
by further infusions of infliximab every 8 weeks (see clinical response at week 30 below) was 
effective and the results significantly superior to the placebo group. 
Secondary endpoints 
The  major  secondary  endpoints  evaluated  included  clinical  response  at  week  30,  clinical 
remission at week 8 and 30, and mucosal healing at week 8 and 30. 
Table 2: Clinical response at week 30a,b 
Clinical 
response at 
week 30 
ACT 1 
ACT 2 
Placebo 
Infliximab 
Combined 
N=121 
29.8% 
N=123 
26.0% 
5 mg/kg 
N=121 
52.1% 
N=121 
47.1% 
10 mg/kg 
N=122 
50.8% 
N=120 
60.0% 
N=243 
51.4% 
N=241 
53.5% 
Pooled data 
N=244 
27.9% 
N=242 
49.6% 
p-value 
<0.001 
a subjects who had a prohibited change in medication, had an ostomy or colectomy, 
discontinued study infusions due to lack of efficacy, or had insufficient data are considered to 
not be in clinical response  
b Analysis is stratified by corticosteroid refractory status and centre location 
N=484 
52.5% 
<0.001 
N=242 
55.4% 
<0.001 
A  total  of  33%  of  subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  were  in  clinical 
remission at week 8 and the same proportion (33%) was in clinical remission at week 30. In 
contrast, 10% and 13% of the subjects in the placebo group were in clinical remission at week 
8 and week 30, respectively (statistically significant at both weeks (p < 0.001)).  
The numbers of subjects in sustained remission (remission at both weeks 8 and 30) through 
week  30  were  5%  for  placebo  and  22%  for  the  infliximab  treated  group.  The  comparison 
placebo vs infliximab treated groups was statistically significant (p < 0.001). 
In the combined infliximab treated group, mucosal healing was observed significantly in more 
patients at week 8 and 30 (61% and 51%, respectively) compared to the placebo group (32% 
and 28%, respectively).  
Tapering of corticosteroids 
Among subjects who were receiving corticosteroids at baseline, a greater proportion were in 
clinical  remission  and  not  receiving  corticosteroids  at  week  30  in  the  combined  infliximab 
treatment  group  (22%)  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (7%,  p  <  0.001).  In  addition,  the 
percentage of subjects in clinical remission and not receiving corticosteroids at week 30 was 
similar  in  the  5  mg/kg  and  10 mg/kg  infliximab  groups,  and  both  were  significantly  greater 
than in the placebo group (p≤ 0.001, respectively). 
Quality of life 
Quality of life was significantly improved in the combined infliximab treatment group when 
compared with the placebo group. 
6/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mayo score 
Mayo  scores  improved  until  week  8,  thereafter  only  minor  changes  occurred,  but  through 
week 30 the infliximab groups had lower scores than the placebo group.  
The improvement in Mayo scores observed in infliximab-treated subjects was also reflected 
in  all  4  Mayo  subscores  by  week  8:  stool  frequency  subscore,  rectal  bleeding  subscore, 
endoscopy subscore and physician’s global assessment subscore.  
The MAH submitted the efficacy parameters results based on stool frequency and C-reactive 
protein (CRP) levels. The clinical response at week 8 and 30 was similar in patients that had 
mild diarrhoea as compared to patients who had moderate to severe diarrhoea. The same was 
observed for subjects with normal CRP levels as compared to subjects who had elevated CRP 
levels.  
The clinical remission rate to infliximab at weeks 8 and 30 was greater in patients that had no 
or  mild  diarrhoea  as  compared  to  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  diarrhoea.  The  clinical 
remission  rate  at  week  8  was  higher  for  subjects  with  normal  CRP  levels  as  compared  to 
subjects who had elevated CRP levels. At week 30, the rate was similar in both groups.  
In  patients  with  UC,  natural  remissions  lasting  up  to  several  years  can  occur.  Intermittent 
treatment  with  infliximab  would  thus  be  desirable.  The  CHMP  raised  concerns  because 
efficacy and safety data on re-treatment was not available. It was recommended that a study 
should  be  undertaken  to  assess  efficacy  and  safety  with  episodic  treatment,  as  well  as  to 
determine the optimal duration of treatment.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Efficacy was shown with infliximab 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg during 30 weeks in patients with 
moderate  to  severe  UC,  not  responding  to  or  having  side  effects  from  conventional  therapy 
such as steroids/AZA/6-MP or who had been in remission but with relapse when tapering of 
corticosteroids. In ACT-2, also non-responders to 5-ASA were included. 
In  subjects  with  active  UC  who  had  failed  conventional  therapy  clinical  response,  clinical 
remission  and  mucosal  healing  were  rapidly  induced  and  maintained.  The  corticosteroid 
sparing effect with infliximab was considered clinically relevant. There was a slight tendency 
towards tapering of effects for some endpoints, but taking all endpoints into account, efficacy 
was sufficiently shown up to 30 weeks.  
The  benefit  of  infliximab  was  also  shown  by  an  improvement  of  the  Mayo  score  and  from 
criteria for grading mucosal appearance.  
The CHMP considered that data from the 54 weeks continuation study were of importance to 
prove  long-term  sustained  efficacy.  Following  a  request  for  supplementary  information,  the 
MAH submitted the requested data. The proportion of patients in clinical response at week 54 
were  significantly  greater  than  placebo  for  both  infliximab  treated  groups  (46%  for  the  5 
mg/kg group and 44% for the 10 mg/kg group versus 20% for placebo, p<0.001).  
The  CHMP  raised  concerns  on  the  fact  that  the  risks  of  rebound  effect  with  worsening  of 
symptoms, and both infusion reactions and reduced efficacy due to antibody formation if re-
treatment  after  a  longer  period  than  approximately  16  weeks  had  not  been  assessed.  The 
MAH agreed to follow on this issue. 
Relating  to  the  recommended  posology,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  5 mg/kg  dose  was 
relevant for the treatment of moderate to severe UC. It was acknowledged that the 10 mg/kg 
dose might be of value for some patients, particularly during long-term treatment in a patient 
developing antibodies to infliximab, as reduced efficacy has been observed in such situation. 
In the UC studies, the 10  mg/kg dose  did not appear to raise safety concerns. However, for 
other  indications  an  increase  in  the  dose  is  linked  to  an  increase  risk  of  serious  infections. 
Considering that the results did not show convincing additional efficacy, evident by data for 
7/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
up  to  54  weeks,  the  benefit  /  risk  balance  for  the  10  mg/kg  dose  was  not  considered 
favourable.  The  MAH  revised  the  product  information  (PI)  in  accordance  with  this 
recommendation.  
2.3  
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
In both ACT 1 and ACT 2, 364 subjects were randomized to 1 of the 3 treatment groups. The 
integrated safety analyses described were performed on all treated subjects. All 728 subjects 
received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  drug:  484  subjects  received  infliximab,  either  5  mg/kg 
(242 subjects) or 10 mg/kg (242 subjects) at week 0, 2, and 6, 14, 22, and 30 (ACT 1 only), 
and 244 subjects received placebo. 
Through  week  30,  subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  had  an  average  of 
22 weeks of treatment and an average of 27 weeks of follow-up compared with those in the 
placebo group who had an average of 16 weeks of treatment and an average of 22 weeks of 
follow-up. These lower treatment and follow-up times in the placebo group were due to the 
higher rates of discontinuation of study infusions and study termination among subjects who 
were in the placebo group. No notable differences were observed between the 5 mg/kg and 10 
mg/kg infliximab groups in either the average weeks of treatment or average weeks of follow-
up. 
Adverse events (AE) 
Overview of AE 
The  most  frequently  occurring  AEs  (≥10%  of  subjects)  among  infliximab-treated  subjects 
occurred in a similar proportion of subjects in the combined infliximab treatment group and in 
the  placebo  group.  These  events  were  headache  (17%  versus  18%);  upper  respiratory 
infection  (13%  versus  15%);  colitis  ulcerative  (13%  versus  19%);  arthralgia  (12%  versus 
9%); and abdominal pain (10% versus 12%). 
The  gastrointestinal  (GI)  system  was  the  most  common  system-organ  class  of  AE  reported. 
The most common events in the GI system-organ class coded to the preferred terms of colitis 
ulcerative  (13%  versus  19%)  and  abdominal  pain  (10%  versus  12%).  One  stricture  was 
reported in a subject in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group. One bowel perforation was reported in 
a subject in the placebo group. Among subjects in the combined infliximab treatment group, 
there were no reported cases of intestinal obstructions, peritonitis, or bowel perforations. 
The  respiratory  system  was  the  second  most  common  system-organ  class  of  AEs  reported. 
Upper respiratory tract infection (URI) was most common (13% versus 15%).  
A greater proportion of subjects in the combined infliximab treatment group had AEs in the 
liver and biliary system disorders system-organ class compared with the placebo group (4% 
versus  1%);  transaminase  elevation  accounted  for  the  majority  of  these.  The  markedly 
abnormal  transaminase  elevations  were  transient.  No  subjects  discontinued  study  infusions 
due to an elevated transaminase.  
AEs of note that occurred more often in the combined infliximab treatment group than in the 
placebo  group  included  alopecia  (3%  versus  0%),  allergic  reaction  (1%  versus  0%), 
hypotension (2% versus 0%), and urticaria (1% versus 0%). 
8/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The reported AE was generally similar in the 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg infliximab groups. The 
greatest  difference  between  the  2  groups  was  observed  in  the  respiratory  system  disorders 
system-organ class, e.g. sinusitis (6% versus 7%), coughing (3% versus 6%), and pneumonia 
(0% versus 2%), respectively.  
The AE pattern seen in the ACT 1 and ACT 2 studies was similar to that seen in subjects with 
CD who are treated with infliximab. The proportion of infliximab-treated subjects with AEs 
in the UC population is less than that reported among subjects with CD (84% versus 91%, for 
UC and CD respectively). In both diseases, the GI system, followed by the respiratory system, 
were  the  most  common  system-organ  classes  of  the  AEs  reported.  A  comparative  analysis 
between  the  UC  and  the  CD  population  showed  that  the  common  AEs  associated  with 
inflammatory bowel disease occurred in a smaller proportion of subjects with UC than those 
with CD: abscess (2% versus 7%); intestinal perforation (0.0% versus 4%); intestinal stenosis 
(0%  versus  2%);  and  intestinal  obstruction  (0%  versus  5%).  These  results  were  considered 
consistent with a higher risk of these complications in subjects with CD compared with those 
who have UC referring to Glickman, 1998. 
The next table summarises the overall distribution of AEs.  
Table 3: Number of subjects with 1 or more common (>5%) AEs (WHOART1 preferred term) 
Placebo  
Subjects treated  
Avg weeks of follow-up 
Avg weeks of treatment 
Subjects with 1 or more AE 
WHOART system-organ class 
Gastro-intestinal system disorders  
Respiratory system disorders  
Body as a whole – general disorders 
Central & peripheral nervous 
system disorders  
Skin and appendages disorders  
Resistance mechanism disorders  
Musculo-skeletal system disorders  
Psychiatric disorders  
Vascular (extracardiac) disorders 
Cardiovascular disorders, general 
244 
22.2 
16.1 
188 (77.0%) 
109 (44.7%) 
66 (27.0%) 
56 (23.0%) 
59 (24.2%) 
63 (25.8%) 
52 (21.3%) 
53 (21.7%) 
20 (8.2%) 
17 (7.0%) 
1 (1.6%) 
5 mg/kg 
242 
27.2 
21.9 
202 (83.5%) 
94 (38.8%) 
79 (32.6%) 
61 (25.2%) 
64 (26.4%) 
67 (27.7%) 
56 (23.1%) 
61 (25.2%) 
18 (7.4%) 
13 (5.4%) 
13 (5.4%) 
Infliximab  
10 mg/kg 
242 
26.6 
21.0 
202 (83.5%) 
97 (40.1%) 
95 (39.3%) 
69 (28.5%) 
65 (26.9%) 
53 (21.9%) 
57 (23.6%) 
49 (20.2%) 
15 (6.2%) 
12 (5.0%) 
11 (4.5%) 
Combined 
484 
26.9 
21.5 
404 (83.5%) 
191 (39.5%) 
174 (36.0%) 
130 (26.9%) 
129 (26.7%) 
120 (24.8%) 
113 (23.3%) 
110 (22.7%) 
33 (6.8%) 
25 (5.2%) 
24 (5.0%) 
1World Health Organisation Adverse Reaction Terminology  
Deaths and serious adverse events (SAE) 
(cid:190)Deaths 
No deaths occurred through week 30 in both clinical trials.  
In ACT 1, one placebo treated patient committed suicide 2 months after completing the main 
part of the study.  
In ACT 2 two events were noted. One patient randomized to the 5 mg/kg infliximab group, 
was  diagnosed  with  pulmonary  histoplasmosis  (he  originated  from  an  endemic  region),  1 
week after the third infusion in the study extension and died 3 weeks after hospital admission 
with adult respiratory distress syndrome and renal failure. This event was considered probably 
related  to  treatment  with  infliximab.  Another  subject  randomized  to  the  placebo  group, 
9/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
received commercial infliximab for the treatment of concurrent RA and reportedly died due to 
unspecified complications of a cerebral vascular accident. 
(cid:190)SAE 
A  higher  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  had  an  SAE  compared  with  that  of 
subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  (20%  versus  13%,  respectively).  The 
most  frequently  reported  SAE  was  colitis  ulcerative  (ie,  worsening  UC),  which  occurred  in 
11%  of  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  compared  with  6%  in  the  combined  infliximab 
treatment  group.  The  proportions  of  subjects  with  other  reported  SAEs  were  similar  among 
the combined infliximab and placebo treatment groups.  
There were 3 malignancies reported through week 30 among ACT 1 and ACT 2 subjects. In 
ACT  1,  one  subject  on  5  mg/kg  infliximab,  who  had  a  history  of  elevated  prostate-specific 
antigen  (PSA)  levels  prior  to  enrolment  in  the  trial,  was  diagnosed  with  prostatic 
adenocarcinoma after the week 8 visit. 
In ACT 2, one placebo patient was diagnosed with a basal cell carcinoma. Another patient on 
5  mg/kg  infliximab,  with  a  15-year  history  of  UC,  was  diagnosed  as  having  rectal 
adenocarcinoma. 
The clinical trials presented to support the claimed indication were short-term studies, and the 
overall  exposure  of  this  patient  population  was  insufficient  to  draw  conclusions  regarding 
whether infliximab contributes to the promotion of malignancies or affects the occurrence of 
e.g. lymphoma. The MAH will undertake long-term follow-up addressing these aspects.  
Specific adverse events 
(cid:190)Infusion reactions 
The  average  number  of  infusions,  proportion  of  infusions  with  infusion  reactions,  and 
proportion of subjects who had an infusion reaction were similar between the infliximab and 
placebo treatment groups. The proportion of subjects with infusion reactions was comparable 
but slightly higher in the 10 mg/kg infliximab group compared with the  5 mg/kg infliximab 
group  (12%  versus  10%,  respectively).  No  serious  infusion  reactions  were  reported  and  no 
subjects discontinued infusions due to an infusion reaction. 
(cid:190)Serious Infections 
In  ACT  1  and  ACT  2,  11  subjects  (2%)  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  had  a 
serious  infection  compared  with  3  subjects  (1%)  in  the  placebo  group.  Serious  infections 
occurred  in  3  subjects  (1%)  in  the  5  mg/kg  infliximab  group  and  8  subjects  (3%)  in  the  10 
mg/kg infliximab group. 
(cid:190)Tuberculosis (TB) and opportunistic infections 
There  was  1  case  of  pulmonary  TB  reported  (10  mg/kg  infliximab).  This  subject  had  a 
negative purified protein derivative skin test and negative chest radiograph at screening. 
Herpes  zoster  (including  varicella  zoster)  was  reported  in  7  (1%)  subjects  in  the  combined 
infliximab treatment group (5 at 5  mg/kg and 2 at 10 mg/kg infliximab). One subject in the 
placebo  group  had  herpes  zoster.  No  other  serious  or  systemic  potential  opportunistic 
infections were observed during the ACT trials. During the ACT 2 study extension, 1 subject 
randomized  to  the  5 mg/kg  infliximab  group  developed  histoplasmosis  that  progressed  to 
death (see Death section above). 
10/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:190)Autoimmune Disorders 
There was 1 report of a lupus-like reaction, in a subject randomized to the 5 mg/kg infliximab 
group  who  had  an  ANA  titer  >  1:320  at  baseline.  There  was  1  report  of  an  autoimmune 
disorder (ie, autoimmune hepatitis) in ACT 2 in a subject treated with 10 mg/kg infliximab.  
A total of 10% of infliximab-treated subjects were newly positive for anti-nuclear antibodies 
(ANA)  and  8%  of  them  also  positive  for  anti-dsDNA  antibodies  compared  with  3%  newly 
ANA positive and 0% newly anti-dsDNA positive patients receiving placebo. 
(cid:190)Neurologic Events 
Neurologic events were observed infrequently and were generally not of clinical concern. One 
subject  experienced  increased  peripheral  neuropathy  and  another  optic  neuritis.  Both  events 
were considered not related to the study agent and infusions were continued. 
(cid:190)Laboratory findings 
No clinically important differences in any of the haematology laboratory parameters or in any 
of the chemistry laboratory parameters were noted between treatment groups. 
No notable differences were observed between the 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg infliximab groups.  
The magnitude and duration of transaminase elevations seen in the ACT trials were similar to 
those seen in subjects treated with infliximab for CD but lower than those noted in subjects 
with AS and PsA. 
(cid:190)Antibodies to infliximab and possible reactions to study agent 
The  incidence  of  infusion  reactions  was  greater  among  subjects  who  were  positive  for 
antibodies  to  infliximab  than  among  those  who  were  negative  for  antibodies  to  infliximab. 
Eight  of  17  (47%)  antibody-positive  subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group 
experienced infusion reactions through week 30 compared with 7 of 62 (11%) subjects who 
were evaluated as antibody negative. Six of the antibody to infliximab positive subjects who 
had  infusion  reactions  were  in  the  5  mg/kg  infliximab  group.  Among  the  antibody  to 
infliximab-positive subjects, the infusion reactions were generally mild to moderate, and there 
were no serious infusion reactions, infusion reactions leading to discontinuation, or possible 
anaphylactic  reactions. One subject in  the  5  mg/kg infliximab group  had a possible  delayed 
hypersensitivity reaction.  
Among  the  antibody-negative  subjects,  there  were  no  serious  infusion  reactions,  infusion 
reactions leading to discontinuation, or possible anaphylactic reactions. One subject in the 10 
mg/kg infliximab group had a possible delayed hypersensitivity reaction. 
Among the subjects who had an inconclusive antibody to infliximab status through week 30, 
28  of  295  (10%)  subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  experienced  infusion 
reactions.  There  were  no  subjects  who  had  a  serious  infusion  reaction  or  discontinued 
infusions due to infusion reactions.  
Risk management plan (RMP) and pharmacovigilance plan 
Further  to  the  routine  post  authorisation  safety  monitoring,  the  MAH  proposed  additional 
pharmacovigilance activities, including risk assessment and risk minimisation action plans.  
The MAH will continue to generate long term efficacy and safety data in UC through clinical 
studies.  A  European  patient  registry  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  active  UC  will  be 
initiated. Patients will be followed for 5 years following initiation of infliximab or counting 
11/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from  enrolment  in  the  registry.  Periodic  safety  reporting  will  also  continue  in  the 
postmarketing  environment  through  regular  surveillance  activities  utilising  a  worldwide 
safety database.  
Reference  was  also  made  to  the  available  product  and  safety  information,  which  will  be 
revised  on  an  ongoing  basis  to  incorporate  any  new  relevant  information  on  the  use  of 
infliximab in patients with UC.  
The current physician awareness and education activities, focusing on TB and other infections 
will continue and will be extended to UC.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
The data set for the safety evaluation was based on the ACT1 and ACT2 study. The majority 
of patients received 7.3 infusions, with an average total dose of 36.5 or 73 mg/kg (5 and 10 
mg/kg  infliximab  group).  The  followed  up  period  for  all  treated  patients  was  at  least  30 
weeks. Overall, the treatment with infliximab was well tolerated with no new or unexpected 
safety signals.  
The  safety  profile  of  infliximab  in  the  treatment  of  UC  was  considered  similar  to  safety 
during treatment of other approved indications, in particular CD.  
The  incidence  of  AEs  was  slightly  greater  among  the  infliximab  arms  than  in  the  placebo 
group.  The  GI  system  was  the  body  system  mostly  affected.  Other  common  events  were 
headache, URI, arthralgia and abdominal pain. 
No patient died and none of the three malignancies were considered related to infliximab by 
the  investigators.  There  was  one  pulmonary  TB  (10  mg/kg  infliximab)  in  a  patient  with 
negative PPD result and negative chest radiograph at screening.  
The incidence of ANA antibodies and anti-dsDNA as well as the incidence of anti-infliximab 
antibodies appeared lower than that observed in previous clinical studies. Approximately 5% 
of patients treated with infliximab developed antibodies to infliximab. The presence of anti-
infliximab antibodies was associated with an increase in infusion reactions. The findings were 
considered consistent with that of other clinical trials.  
The  CHMP  noted  that  infections  were  the  most  common  side  effects  and  continuing 
surveillance,  in  particular  of  serious  infections  including  TB,  was  considered  important.  A 
contributing effect of infliximab on the promotion of tumours such as adenocarcinoma of the 
colon is not known and should be monitored. 
The MAH clarified that the ACT 1 and ACT 2 studies were not designed to investigate effects 
on  colectomy  and  that  the  study  population  had  stable  UC,  which  might  indicate  a  low 
colectomy rate. This issue is to be further studied.  
The  CHMP  raised  concerns  that  infliximab  could  affect  the  risk  of  malignancy  associated 
with  UC,  considering  that  anti-TNF  therapy  is  suspected  to  have  a  potential  tumour 
promoting effect. Further to the request for supplementary information, the MAH included a 
warning in the SPC.  
The  ACT  trials  excluded  patients  hospitalised  and  patients  with  signs  of  fulminant  colitis. 
Fulminant  colitis  was  an  exclusion  criterion  in  the  pivotal  studies,  but  limited  data  from 
another, recently published, study does not raise concerns. 
The  MAH  submitted  a  European  RMP,  together  with  a  pharmacovigilance  plan.  The  RMP 
was  based  on  the  safety  experience  and  in  the  specific  safety  issues  regarding  the  risk  of 
dysplasia  and  colorectal  cancer 
infliximab.  The 
pharmacovigilance plan included open label extensions of clinical trials and an observational 
registry  study.  The  available  prescribing  information  will  focus  on  the  need  for  screening 
in  UC  patients 
treated  with 
12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
through  colonoscopy  and  biopsies,  with  differential  schemes  according  to  recommendations 
of  professional  societies.  These  recommendations  appear  to  be  well  founded.  Furthermore, 
the MAH proposed to implement the Physician Awareness and Education activities that aim 
to help prescribers pay attention to the known safety problems, in UC. Moreover, all patients 
should get the Patient Alert Card already approved.  
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Ulcerative  colitis  is  a  new  area  for  treatment  with  anti-TNF  therapy  and  currently  not 
approved for any other anti-TNF or biologic agent. The rationale for the treatment is based on 
findings of increased levels of TNF in patients with active UC.  
Two pivotal studies with infliximab in the treatment of UC were submitted in the application. 
These studies include 364 patients each, with moderate to severe UC and with non-response 
to  other  conventional  therapies.  A  placebo-add-on  approach  was  chosen  for  the  performed 
studies.  
The assessment concluded that efficacy had been shown for up to 54 weeks. Disease activity, 
evaluated  with  the  Mayo  score,  was  reduced.  Clinical  response  and  clinical  remission 
occurred  in  a  significantly  higher  number  of  patients  in  the  active  groups  compared  with 
placebo. A clinically relevant corticosteroid sparing effect as well as fewer infliximab treated 
patients who discontinued due to lack of efficacy, also speak in favour of infliximab treatment 
compared with the add-on placebo treatment.  
No new safety signals were observed in the trials for up to 54 weeks, however, the (S)AEs in 
the  studies  confirm  the  already  known  safety  issues  that  are  typical  for  Remicade.  Events 
more specifically related to UC, such as gut perforations and cases of fulminant colitis were 
not  reported  in  the  UC  studies.  One  stricture  was  reported  in  a  subject  in  the  5  mg/kg 
infliximab group. One bowel perforation was reported in a subject in the placebo group.  
Colectomy outcome was not studied in ACT 1 and ACT 2, an issue considered of relevance 
for efficacy and safety. One reason to discuss colectomy is the often dysplastic character of 
the  disease,  and  the  potentially  tumour-promoting  effect  of  anti-TNF  therapy  that  by 
protracting colectomy  might in  the  long term lead  to  a rise in  malignancies. The fact that  a 
potentially  tumour-promoting  drug  is  given  to  a  patient  population  with  a  precancerosis 
remains a potential problem.  
Further data evaluating colectomy and malignancy rates, as well as episodic treatment will be 
collected by the MAH.  
The  CHMP considered that the use of infliximab in  patients with  moderate  to severe UC  is 
approvable in cases where other treatments have failed and the  patient is steroid dependent. 
Changes where introduced to the product information.  
4. 
Conclusion 
On 26 January 2006 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed 
on the amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package 
Leaflet.  
The CHMP adopted on 26 January 2006 an Opinion on a Type II variation to be made to the 
terms of the Community Marketing Authorisation, as amended. 
13/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
