SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures  which 
have  been  finalised  before  1  October  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Remicade  contains  the  active  substance  infliximab.  It  is  a  chimeric  human-murine  monoclonal 
antibody directed against tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), manufactured from a recombinant cell 
line.  Infliximab  contains  approximately  30%  murine  variable  region  amino  acid  sequence,  which 
confers antigen-binding specificity to human TNFα. The remaining 70% correspond to a human IgG1 
heavy chain constant region and a human kappa light chain constant region. Remicade is presented as 
powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  (100  mg/vial),  to  be  reconstituted  with  water  for 
injections, diluted with saline and thereafter administered via intravenous infusion.  
Infliximab  has  high  affinity  for  human  TNFα,  which  is  a  cytokine  with  multiple  biologic  actions 
including  mediation  of  inflammatory  responses  and  modulation  of  the  immune  system.  There  is 
evidence that TNFα plays a role in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.  
Remicade has currently been approved for use in the following therapeutic areas: 
Crohn’s  disease  is  a  chronic  medically  incurable  inflammatory  bowel  disease,  which  appears 
periodically  with  a  varying  course.  The  symptoms  range  from  mild  inflammatory  symptoms  to 
disabling  conditions  involving  large  parts  of  the  gastro-intestinal  tract  and  with  severe  subsequent 
complications  such  as  the  occurrence  of  fistulae.  Conventional  therapies  include  corticosteroids, 
aminosalisylates,  antibiotics  and  immunosuppressive  drugs.  Only  when  medical  treatment  is  not 
successful  or  in  certain  complications,  surgery  is  indicated.  Despite  this  fact,  surgery  is  needed  in  a 
number  of patients.  A fulminate life-threatening  course  of the disease is rare,  but due  to therapeutic 
failure  and  severe  and  disabling  side  effects  of  corticosteroids  and  immunosuppressant  medicinal 
products alternative therapies are needed.  
Rheumatoid  Arthritis  (RA)  is  characterised  by  chronic  inflammation  of  several  joints  and  is  often 
complicated  by  the  involvement  of  internal  organs.  The  underlying  aetiology  of  this  inflammatory 
process  remains  unknown,  but  there  is  evidence  that  points  to  immunological  reactions  against  still 
unidentified antigens. It should therefore be possible to reduce the consequences of the disease process 
both  by  blocking  important  steps  in  the  inflammatory  reaction  and  by  modifying  the  specific 
immunological  mechanisms  that  are  involved  in  the  development  of  the  disease.  In  RA  there  are 
increased levels of TNFα secreted by infiltrating lymphocytes and macrophages which is implicated in 
synovial proliferation, inflammation and joints destruction. The pharmacological management of RA 
involves mainly symptomatic treatment and disease modification. 
RA  is  a  progressive  disease  but  the  rate  of  progression  varies  from  one  individual  to  another.  
Characteristic X-ray findings are seen in more than half of the patients 2 years after the onset and in 
80% after 5 years. Joint erosion often occurs early in RA, affecting up to 40% of patients destined to 
develop  erosive  RA,  during  the  first  year  and  90%  during  the  first  2  years  (Plant  et  al.,1998). 
Functional  disability  occurs  early,  and  the  disease  is  also  associated  with  premature  mortality 
(Goldbach-Mansky and Lipsky, 2003; Pincus, 1995) mainly due to cardiovascular disease. 
Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the spine and tendons characterised 
by progressive, stiffening of the sacroiliac, intervertebral and costovertebral joints and leading to bony 
ankylosis.  AS  is  a  systemic  rheumatic  disease  and  may  also  effect  enthesis  (tendon  insertions)  and 
peripheral joints, as well as other organs such as the eyes, heart, and lungs. The long-term outcome of 
AS (10-20 years) is severe handicap and disability in 25-30% of cases, and AS is associated with an 
increased  mortality  rate.  The  goal  of  conventional  treatments  such  as  physiotherapy,  non-steroidal 
1/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anti-inflammatory drugs, glucocorticoids, DMARDs is pain control. Oral agents employed to modify 
disease progression in RA are prescribed for AS patients with refractory symptoms.  Modest benefit is 
achieved  in  some  patients,  particularly  in  peripheral  joint  symptoms.  Axial  symptoms  are 
inconsistently improved in patients treated with second-line agents, and there is little evidence these 
medicinal  products  slow  the  progression  of  structural  damage.    Abundance  of  TNF-alpha  mRNA  in 
sacroiliac joints biopsies from AS patients, suggests a pathogenic role for TNF. 
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is an inflammatory arthritis, associated with psoriasis. With the exception of 
the distal interphalangeal joints there are no predictable joints for involvement in PsA and the signs of 
inflammation  are  often  non-symmetrical  and  more  difficult  to  detect  compared  with  RA.  Pain  and 
tenderness  is  often  more  pronounced  than  in  other  joint  inflammation.  Spondylarthropathy  is  often 
present.  Some  typical  features  of  PsA  occur,  such  as  dactylitis,  i.e.  swelling  of  a  whole  digit. 
Treatment approaches include physical therapy, NSAIDs, DMARDs and corticosteroids. There is an 
increased  risk  for  flares  of  psoriasis  when  tapering  steroid  treatment.    The  outcome  of  the  disease 
varies from low activity to severe disabling disease including mutilating joint disease.  
In  August  1999,  a  Marketing  Authorisation  under  “exceptional  circumstances”  was  granted  for 
Remicade. The approved indications were for the treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease and for 
fistulising Crohn’s disease in patients who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of 
therapy with conventional treatment such as a corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant. Due to the 
limited safety and efficacy data available at the time of approval, the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
(MAH)  committed  to  provide  additional  data  when  they  became  available;  the  benefit–risk  balance 
was  to  be  reassessed  on  a  yearly  basis.  Following  the  authorisation  of  Remicade  for  treatment  of 
Crohn’s disease, subsequent type II variation applications have been submitted and reviewed to extend 
the indication for use in RA, Ankylosing Spondylitis and Psoriatic Arthritis.  
Within the first and second annual reassessment, further safety and efficacy data for Remicade have 
been reviewed. Based on post marketing experience as well as new clinical trial data, safety concerns 
identified  during  the  initial  approval  procedures,  have  been  confirmed  and  new  concerns  have 
emerged. The main safety concerns, which apply for both Crohn’s disease patients and RA patients, 
include  serious 
including 
tuberculosis  (TB), 
anaphylactic/toid reactions, antibody development, worsening of heart failure, neurological disorders, 
blood  disorder,  possible  increased  risk  of  malignancies  and  the  fact  that  long-term  consequences  of 
Remicade treatment are unknown.  
infusion-related  reactions 
infections 
including 
Because  of  these  safety  concerns,  and  due  to  the  limited  efficacy  data  in  Crohn’s  disease  and  upon 
advice from an Expert Group convened by the EMEA, the indications for treatment of Crohn’s disease 
were  restricted  via  an  urgent  safety  restriction  on  17  January  2002,  while  the  indication  for  RA 
remained unchanged.  
In  light  of  the  available  knowledge  of  the  safety  profile  of  Remicade,  and  considering  the  post 
marketing experience so far, it was considered necessary to find ways to improve the awareness of the 
patients  and  health  care  professionals  about  the  risks  with  Remicade  use.  Therefore,  a  patient  alert 
card was introduced in February 2002.  
Since  then  additional  data  from  clinical  studies  and  post-marketing  data  have  been  submitted.  The 
additional  data,  assessed  within  PSURs,  various  variation  applications  and  follow-up  measures/ 
specific  obligations,  2  further  annual  reassessments  and  the  five  year  renewal  of  the  Marketing 
Authorisation allowed to better characterise the benefits and risks with Remicade. Further to the fourth 
annual  reassessment  the  CHMP  lifted  the  need  for  annual    reassessments.  Based  on  new  data  from 
clinical  studies,  the  therapeutic  indications  were  updated  to  include  ankylosing  spondylitis,  MTX-
naïve  RA  and  psoriatic  arthritis.  Information  from  clinical  trial  experience  with  repeated 
administration  in severe active  Crohn`s  disease and  long-term treatment  of Crohn`s disease has also 
been added to the relevant sections of the product information. 
2/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By the cut-off date of this report, the following therapeutic indications apply :  
Rheumatoid arthritis: 
Remicade, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for:  
the reduction of signs and symptoms as well as the improvement in physical function in: 
• 
patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying drugs, including 
methotrexate, has been inadequate. 
patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with methotrexate or 
other DMARDs. 
• 
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured by 
x-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1). 
Crohn’s disease: 
Remicade is indicated for: 
• 
• 
treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease, in patients who have not responded despite a full 
and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and an immunosuppressant; or who are 
intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies.  
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in patients who have not responded despite a 
full and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment (including antibiotics, drainage 
and immunosuppressive therapy). 
• 
Ankylosing spondylitis: 
Remicade is indicated for: 
Treatment of ankylosing spondylitis, in patients who have severe axial symptoms, elevated serological 
markers of inflammatory activity and who have responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis: 
Remicade, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in patients who have responded inadequately to 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Remicade  is  supplied  as  a  sterile  lyophilised  cake  for  reconstitution  and  dilution  prior  to 
administration.  Each  vial  of  the  product  contains  100  mg  infliximab,  monobasic  sodium  phosphate 
monohydrate, dibasic sodium phosphate dihydrate, sucrose, and polysorbate 80. No preservatives are 
added. The primary container/closure  system consists  of a 20  ml Type I glass  vial, a rubber stopper 
and a flip-off cap. 
Development pharmaceutics  
During  development  different  cell  clones,  manufacturing  processes  and  formulations  were  used. 
Comparability between product used in clinical trials and that produced using the current process was 
demonstrated by the extended batch analyses and in characterisation studies.  
During  the  licensing  process,  delayed  hypersensitivity  reactions  were  reported  for  a  small  group  of 
Crohn´s disease patients treated in early clinical trials, and re-treated two to four years later. All but 
one (9 out of 10) of the affected patients had in their initial treatment received a liquid formulation of 
Remicade.  It  was  noticed  that  the  liquid  formulation  had  a  higher  turbidity  (possibly  caused  by 
infliximab  self-association)  than  lyophilised  Remicade  used  in  other  studies  where  no  delayed 
hypersensitivity  reactions  were  observed,  and  a  contribution  of  the  liquid  formulation  to  the 
development  of  hypersensitivity  reactions  could  not  be  excluded.  Characterisation  of  the  molecular 
integrity  of  the  reconstituted  lyophilised  product  intended  for  marketing  showed  that  the  monomer 
3/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
content  of  the  product  is  at  least  98%,  which  is  considered  acceptable.  To  control  that  undue 
aggregation of the product does not occur, the applicant limits the product specification for turbidity to 
“opalescent”  (Ph.Eur.)  and  tighten  the  product  specification  for  monomer  content  by  gel  filtration 
(GF) - HPLC to ≥98.0%. Delayed hypersensitivity is further addressed in the Clinical section below.  
Method of preparation 
Remicade is manufactured in production batches of 10,000 to 63,000 vials. An acceptable description 
of the manufacturing process has been given. Briefly, frozen infliximab pre-formulated bulk (PFB) is 
thawed, formulated to the final batch size, sterilised by filtration, filled and dried by lyophilisation to 
yield infliximab finished product; 100 mg/vial.   
Adequate  in-process  control  tests  are  performed  throughout  the  manufacturing  process,  including 
control of the integrity of all filters both prior to and after use. The test methods used are considered 
acceptable.  
Validation 
The  lyophilisation,  the  aseptic  filling  processes  as  well  as  the  manufacturing  conditions  are 
satisfactorily validated.  
Control of starting materials 
Specifications and routine tests 
The  specifications  for  release  cover  all  tests  commonly  applied  to  purified  protein  solutions. 
Specifications for: endotoxin, bioburden, pH, protein concentration, infliximab charge heterogeneity, 
bioactivity, purity by SDS-PAGE, reduced and non-reduced, purity by GF-HPLC and identity by GF-
HPLC must be met for release of the active substance.  
During the evaluation process, a number of questions were raised regarding specifications and routine 
testing. Most of these have been adequately solved, while some remaining issues will be addressed on 
an ongoing basis.  
Results from finished product testing including the bulk substance, from three full-scale batches have 
been submitted.   
Development genetics 
The  infliximab  monoclonal  antibody  is  expressed  using  chimeric  antibody  genes  consisting  of  the 
variable  region  sequences  cloned  from  the  murine  anti-TNFα  hybridoma  A2,  and  human  antibody 
constant region sequences supplied by the plasmid expression vectors. 
Generation of the murine anti-TNF α hybridoma was performed according to standard procedures by 
immunisation of BALB/c mice with purified recombinant human TNFα. The anti-TNFα  hybridoma 
cell line A2 was established after subcloning of cells yielding the highest specific activity, and a cell 
clone  found  to  be  98%  homogenous  with  regard  to  expression  of  IgG1  was  selected  for  further 
processing. 
A description is  given  of the  different steps starting  from  the  preparation  of  the  infliximab  genomic 
libraries used for isolation of the light and heavy chain variable regions, and ending at the isolation of 
the two expression vectors carrying infliximab chimeric light chain or heavy chain genes.  
The procedures used for transfection and isolation of the C-168-J producer cell clone included steps 
where the heavy and light chain vector constructs were linearised and transfected into Sp2/0 cells by 
electroporation.  The  subclone  C-168C  was  selected  and  the  high  antibody  producing  subpopulation 
was enriched using serial cell sorting by flow cytometry.  The highest-producing cell clone was used 
to  create  the  research  cell  bank  from  which  the  current  master  cell  bank  (MCB;  C168J)  was 
established. 
4/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cell bank system 
The studies reported on the safety of the producer cell line have been performed in accordance with 
the EU guideline ”Note for guidance of production and quality control of monoclonal antibodies”. The 
MCB has been characterised for the absence of microbial and viral contaminants as well as inherent 
characteristics  of  the  cell  line  as  karyotype,  isoenzyme  patterns,  authenticity,  clonality  and  stability. 
Each  master  working  cell  bank  (MWCB)  is  prepared  from  a  single  vial  of  the  MCB.  The  routine 
analyses  performed  on  new  MWCB´s  are  found  acceptable  and  include  tests  for  viability, 
mycoplasma,  sterility,  MAP,  murine  thymic  agent,  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests  for  adventitious  virus, 
bovine virus, karyology, isoenzymes, as well as the stable production and the identity of the secreted 
antibody.  In  view  of  the  tests  applied  for  qualification  of  each  new  MWCB,  omission  of  stability 
studies on frozen cell banks is acceptable. 
Fermentation and harvesting 
Infliximab is a recombinant antibody produced and secreted from mouse myeloma cells (SP2/0 cells). 
The antibody is manufactured by continuous perfusion cell culture. Collected harvests are clarified by 
filtration before further purification. 
A satisfactory description is given of the different steps of the process, including in-process tests,  e.g. 
cell viability, cell density and microbial contamination. Each harvest is tested for pH, bioburden and 
endotoxin  content.  Maximum  ranges  are  specified  for  operation  parameters  including  temperature, 
dissolved  oxygen,  pH,  and  agitation  rate  during  cultivation  in  the  fermentors.  Criteria  are  set  for 
termination of the cultures.  
For each new MWCB, at the end of the first three fermentation runs, samples are withdrawn and tested 
for  mycoplasma,  xenotropic  retrovirus,  ecotropic  retrovirus  as  well  as  for  positive  reaction  in  vitro 
assays  using  MRC-5,  Vero  76,  HeLa  and  the  host  cell  line  as  indicator  cells.  In  these  analyses,  all 
samples tested so far have been found negative.  
Data for in-process tests and operating parameters have been provided and are considered adequate.  
As a result of the evaluation process, a maximum limit for the viral load of the unpurified bulk harvest 
was defined (see Viral safety).  
Purification 
The different steps of the purification process include affinity and anion chromatography, as well as 
two  robust  virus  removal  steps  that  are  capable  of  removing  adventitious  agents  and  other 
contaminants. The documentation of the purification process contains a satisfactory presentation of the 
conditions  applied  during  each  step.  All  materials  and  equipment  used  in  the  different  steps  are 
specified. Intermediates of the process are 0.2 µm filtered before storage.  
Characterisation 
Data  presented  on  the  characterisation  of  infliximab  were  of  high  quality.  This  refers  both  to  the 
studies shown on aspects of microheterogeneity associated with fermentation, and to identification of 
degraded/modified forms of infliximab. Most of the techniques used for characterisation are applied in 
the  extended  batch  analysis  indicated  for  demonstration  of  the  consistency  of  the  current  process  as 
well as for comparability with products derived from different processes. The discriminating capacity 
of  the  proposed  consistency/comparability  testings  is  supported  by  the  high  quality  of  the 
characterisation studies.  
5/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analytical Development 
Validation  reports  were  submitted  for  all  methods  used  to  control  the  in  process  and  release 
specifications  (active  ingredient  and  the  finished  product).  Furthermore,  a  survey  was  given  on  the 
qualification tests performed on a selection of non-routine assays.   
Process validation 
The process validation is divided into four sections covering: 
• 
Facilities,  and  cleaning  and  microbial  control  of  equipment.  An  overview  of  the  systems  in 
place to fulfil Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) requirements is presented. 
Cell  growth  and  harvesting.  The  cell  growth  kinetics  and  antibody  productivity  profiles  are 
shown for each of nine bioreactors for time periods of up to 86 days. 
Removal of media components/additives during purification 
Capacity of the purification process to remove contaminating virus 
• 
• 
• 
Control tests on the finished product 
For  the  finished  product,  release  tests  and  specifications  are  provided.  Release  tests  include  tests  of 
samples at the end of fermentation and sterility testing of final bulk. The final lyophilised product is 
tested  for  sterility,  endotoxin,  appearance,  residual  moisture  and  reconstitution  time.  After 
reconstitution  the  product  is  tested  for  colour,  visible  particles  and  turbidity.  Protein  content,  pH, 
uniformity, identity and immunoreactivity are determined. SDS-PAGE, gel filtration (GF) -HPLC and 
isoelectric  focussing  (IEF)  are  performed.  Release  results  for  seven  batches  of  drug  product  were 
provided.  
Stability  
The  reports  on  the  ongoing  stability  studies  on  the  pre-formulated  bulk  product  will  be  submitted 
when  available,  as  a  follow  up  measure.  Shipment  of  frozen  infliximab  PFB  from  Centocor  BV  in 
Leiden, The Netherlands, to a contract site is satisfactorily validated.  
The stability of the finished product has been tested in an adequate number of batches to support the 
shelf-life of 18 months when stored at 2 - 8 °C. During the post-authorisation phase, the shelf-life of 
the  product  was  extended  to  36  months  by  submission  of  supportive  stability  data.  Stability  was 
demonstrated for reconstituted product for up to 24 hours at room temperature.  
Viral safety 
The  virus  removal/inactivation  capacity  of  the  manufacturing  process  was  investigated  using  the 
following  model  viruses:  ecotropic  recombinant  retrovirus  (ERV),  reovirus  type  3  (Reo  3)  and 
poliovirus type 1 (Polio). 
The submitted data indicated that, in the normal case, there is sufficient safety margin for retrovirus 
removal during manufacture. To ensure that this margin will not be exceeded, the applicant has agreed 
to  include  a  test  for  quantification  by  transmission  electron  microscopy  in  each  case  that  a  positive 
result  is  obtained  in  any  of  the  analyses  for  infectious  retrovirus  applied  for  in  process  control  of 
fermentor harvests. 
6/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Various  in  vitro  studies  have  shown  that  infliximab  has  a  high  avidity  for  human  transmembrane 
TNFα  and  high  affinity  for  soluble  TNFα.  Infliximab  has  also  been  shown  to  bind  to  monomeric 
TNFα  in  addition  to  trimeric  TNFα  (Kd  values  were  in  the  pM  or  nM  range).  The  binding  to  both 
transmembrane and soluble forms of TNFα was shown to be saturable and concentration-dependent.  
Infliximab was shown to inhibit the binding of recombinant human (rh)TNFα to human TNFα p55 and 
p75  receptors  constructs.  Infliximab-TNFα  complexes  were  stable  in  vitro,  also  in  the  presence  of 
sTNFR-p55-receptor.  Limited  data  in  mice  also  indicated  that  the  infliximab-TNFα  complexes  were 
stable.  
Infliximab  inhibited  functional  activities  of  TNFα  in  a  variety  of  in  vitro  cell  assays  (human 
fibroblasts, endothelial cells, epithelial cells, neutrophils, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells). In 
most cases, full inhibition was seen at concentrations lower than 5 µg/ml infliximab. In one in vitro 
study, infliximab in combination with either complement or effector cells induced lysis of SP2/0 cells 
expressing  recombinant transmembrane TNFα. This property appeared to be dependent on both the 
infliximab antigen-binding site and on the IgG1 Fc domain.  
In  standard  cytotoxicity  tests,  infliximab  inhibited  the  cytotoxic  effects  of  human  recombinant  or 
natural TNFα (50% inhibition at 10-20 ng/ml infliximab). As expected, infliximab (up to 1.5 mg/ml) 
had  no  effect  on  recombinant  human  lymphotoxin  α-induced  toxicity.  It  was  also  shown  that 
infliximab  could  neutralise  human  and  chimpanzee  TNFα  with  similar  potency,  while  TNFα  from  a 
number  of  other  species  (rhesus  cynomolgous,  pigtail  macaque,  cotton-top  tamarin,  baboon, 
marmoset, pig, rabbit, rat and mouse) was not affected by infliximab.  
Studies  in  normal  mice  given  rhTNFα  and  different  transgenic  mice  models  that  expressed 
recombinant  forms  of  soluble  or  transmembrane  human  TNFα  showed  that  infliximab  inhibited  the 
pathological  effects  mediated  by  human  TNFα.  In  a  mouse  model  of  colitis,  a  monoclonal  antibody 
against mouse TNFα significantly reduced the severity of colitis as indicated by a composite disease 
activity index.  
New  pharmacodynamic  data  in  transgenic  mice  serving  as  models  for  arthritis  were  submitted  after 
approval  for  Crohn’s  disease.  These  data  indicated  that  the  murine  anti-human  TNFα  monoclonal 
antibody  (mA2)  inhibited  effects  mediated  by  human  TNFα,  which  also  resulted  in  joint  healing. 
Thus, these preclinical data would support the use of infliximab in RA.  
infliximab  with  a  number  of  human 
tissues  was  studied  by  in  vitro 
The  reactivity  of 
immunohistochemical  assays.  Consistent  with  the  known  distribution  of  TNFα,  reactivity  was 
observed  with  mononuclear  and  stromal  cells  in  most  tissues  as  well  as  in  smooth  musculature 
associated with vascular walls or selected muscle bundles in a number of tissues. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  preclinical  pharmacokinetic  documentation 
the  relevance  of  animal 
pharmacokinetic  data  on  infliximab  is  marginal  for  the  safety  assessment,  this  was  considered 
acceptable.  
limited.  Since 
is 
7/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
General toxicity  
The  lack  of  binding  of  infliximab  with  TNFα  from  other  species  than  human  and  chimpanzee  has 
restricted  the  possibilities  to  evaluate  its  toxicity profile.  Although  single  and  repeated  dose  toxicity 
studies were performed in rats, these studies are not considered to have any relevance for the human 
safety  assessment.  A  small  number  of  chimpanzees,  the  only  relevant  species  identified  for  safety 
testing, were given single or up to 5 once daily repeated doses of infliximab. There were no clinical or 
biochemical  indications  of  toxicity.  However,  due  to  the  study  designs  (e.g.  sub-optimal  dose 
regimens,  short  follow-up  period;  no  post  mortem  data  as  animals  were  not  sacrificed)  and 
uncertainties  regarding  the  conduct  of  the  experiments,  these  data  were  of  marginal  value  for  the 
human  safety  assessment.  Due  to  the  lack  of  relevant  animal  models,  the  absence  of  more  detailed 
toxicity data with infliximab was considered acceptable. 
Since TNFα plays an important role in the defence against various infections, long-term inhibition of 
TNFα  may  be  associated  with  an  increased  susceptibility  for  infectious  disease.  Data  from  the 
literature have shown that anti-TNFα monoclonal antibodies reduce host defence in various clinically 
relevant  intracellular  infection  models,  which  in  several  experiments  led  to  an  increased  infection-
induced mortality. These aspects are further addressed in the clinical section below.  
A  6  months  toxicity  study  with  an  anti-mouse  TNFα  monoclonal  antibody  (chimeric  V1q  muG2a, 
which has functional characteristics similar to infliximab) was submitted in year 2001. In this study, 
CD-1  mice  were  given  25  weekly  i.v.  doses  of  10  or  40  mg/kg  cV1q.  No  cV1q  treatment-related 
mortality or clinical signs of toxicity were observed. Furthermore, post mortem examinations did not 
indicate  any  treatment  related  findings.  However,  ophthalmic  examinations  revealed  a  dose-related 
increase of bilateral crystalline deposits in the lens capsule of treated male mice. The relevance of this 
finding for humans is not known. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Standard reproductive/developmental toxicity studies have not been performed with infliximab due to 
lack  of  relevant  animal  models.  In  an  attempt  to  mimic  the  clinical  situation  of  TNFα  inhibition, 
studies  were  conducted  in  mice  using  a  monoclonal  antibody  against  mouse  TNFα  (cV1q).  In  these 
experiments,  it  was  demonstrated  that  cV1q  crossed  the  placenta  but  there  was  no  indication  of 
impairment of reproductive function, embryotoxicity or teratogenicity.  
During the review process, concerns were expressed regarding the use of infliximab in pregnancy as 
well  as  in  women  of  childbearing  potential.  Since  there  are  data  showing  that  TNFα  is  involved  in 
embryo/fetal  development,  administration  of  infliximab  could  impair  embryo/fetal  development. 
Furthermore, the elimination of infliximab is slow and based on the experience with cV1q, placental 
transfer  can  not  be  excluded.  Thus,  there  is  a  possibility  that  infliximab  could  be  transferred  to  the 
fetus during pregnancy and retained in the newborn child for an extended period of time, which could 
for instance reduce the new-born’s defence against infections. Therefore, it was concluded that women 
of  childbearing  potential  treated  with  infliximab  should  use  adequate  contraception  to  prevent 
pregnancy.  Furthermore,  administration  of  infliximab  during  pregnancy  is  not  recommended.  This 
information has been included in the SPC. 
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  new  fertility  and  general  reproductive  toxicity  study.  This  study  was 
performed  with  an  anti-mouse  TNFα  monoclonal  antibody,  chimeric  V1q  muG2a,  which  has 
functional  characteristics  similar  to  infliximab.  In  the  high  dose  (HD)  group,  a  reduction  of  the 
‘fertility  index’  and  ‘number  of  pregnant  mice/  number  of  mice  in  cohabitation’  was  observed. 
Furthermore,  the  mean  number  of  days  in  cohabituation  appeared  to  be  increased.  Due  to  the  study 
design,  where  both  males  and  females  were  treated,  it  can  not  be  established  if  these  findings  were 
male-,  and/or  female–mediated  effects.  Comparisons  of  systemic  exposure  of  mice  to  cV1q  and  of 
humans to infliximab are uncertain. Although the relevance of these findings for humans is unknown, 
this information has been included in sections 4.4 and 5.3 of the SPC. 
8/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity 
Genotoxicity tests are considered to be of limited value for this type of product. Still, a complete test 
battery has been performed. Infliximab did not show any genotoxic activity in these studies.  
Standard carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with infliximab. A concern was expressed 
regarding the consequences of long-term inhibition of TNFα in relation to proliferative changes and a 
potential risk of tumour development. To address this concern, information was provided from TNFα 
knock-out mice and from studies of effects of anti-murine TNFα antibodies on tumour development. 
These data gave no support for the hypothesis that inhibition of TNFα is associated with an enhanced 
risk for tumour development.  
Local tolerance 
There was no indication of local irritation following intravenous administration in rabbits.  
Conclusion 
In vitro studies have demonstrated that infliximab binds to soluble and transmembrane human TNFα 
with  high  affinity.  Furthermore,  infliximab-mediated  inhibition  of  functional  activities  of  human 
TNFα has been shown in a variety of test systems. Due to the limited species reactivity of infliximab, 
the possibility to evaluate its toxicity profile is restricted. Data from genetically modified animals (i.e. 
transgenic  and  knock-out  models)  and  from  studies  of  a  monoclonal  antibody  against  mouse  TNFα 
have provided some reassurance regarding carcinogenic potential and reproductive toxicity, although 
some effects on fertility were observed in mice. However, as a precautionary measure and based on 
other information regarding the involvement of TNFα embryo / fetal development, administration of 
Remicade  is  not  recommended  during  pregnancy.  Furthermore,  women  of  childbearing  potential 
should use adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy. Considering the aspects outlined above, the 
available preclinical data were regarded to be sufficient. 
9/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
The clinical trial programme that was evaluated for the initial authorisation of infliximab encompassed 
14 completed studies including one study in healthy volunteers. The five Crohn’s disease trials (Table 
1)  contained  233  patients,  199  of  whom  have  been  treated  with  infliximab.  In  addition,  safety  data 
from trials in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and sepsis were provided. 
The first extension of the indications in RA was based on data from clinical studies in 660 patients 
with active RA (Table 1). 
Table 1 Overview of studies in support of efficacy and safety  
Clinical Trial 
Phase 
Patient Population 
Number of patients 
0168T08 
0168T11 
0168T16 
0168T20 
0168T241 
0168T07 
0168T09 
0168T14 
0168T15/T172 
0168T18 
0168T22  
0168T03 
0168T00 
0168T12 
I 
II 
II/III 
II/III 
III 
I 
II 
II 
II 
I 
III 
I/II 
I 
II 
Active Crohn’s disease  
Moderate to severe Crohn’s disease 
Moderate to severe Crohn’s disease 
Fistulising Crohn’s disease 
Moderate to severe Crohn’s disease 
Active RA 
Active RA 
Active RA 
Active RA 
Active RA 
Active RA 
Healthy volunteers 
Compassionate use 
Ulcerative colitis 
10 
21 
108 
94 
40 
20 
73 
101 
28 
16 
428 
39 
9 
11 
1: Open label study in patients earlier included in studies T 08, T11, T16 and T20.  
2: These two trials had separate protocols, but included the same patients and were reported in a single 
study report 
Further  data  with  regard  to  long-term  treatment  of  active  CD    (trial  ACCENT  I;  C0168T21)  and 
fistulising  CD  (ACCENT  II;  C0168T26)  were  submitted  later  on.  ACCENT  I  was  a  multicentre, 
randomised,  double-blind,  clinical  trial  of  maintenance  infliximab  treatment  compared  with  a  single 
dose of infliximab in 580 patients with moderately to severely active Crohn´s disease (CD). ACCENT 
II  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  clinical  trial  of  maintenance  infliximab  treatment 
compared with a 3-dose induction regimen of infliximab only in 306 patients with fistulising Crohn´s 
disease. 
The  RA  indication  was  later  extended  to  include  methotrexate-naïve  RA  based  on  data  from  the 
ASPIRE (Active-controlled Study of Patients Receiving Infliximab for the Treatment of Rheumatoid 
Arthritis  of  Early  Onset;  C0168T29)  trial.  This  is  a  randomised,  multi-centre,  double-blind,  3-arm, 
parallel, phase III study of Infliximab in combination with methotrexate compared with methotrexate 
alone, in which 1049 subjects were randomised. 
10/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A futher application for extension of the indications to include ankylosing spondylitis was based 
primarily upon the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study P01522. The table 2 
shows the different studies with Infliximab in AS. 
Table 2 studies with Infliximab in Ankylosing spondylitis 
Study Status 
Study  
Design 
Open-label, pilot study with a 
follow-up 1 year later 
Double-blind, placebo-
controlled with an open-label 
follow-up phase (2 years in 
total) 
Open-label pilot study with a 
follow-up of 1 year 
Double-blind, placebo-
controlled, cross-over 
Open-label study with at least 
6 month follow-up 
Open-label pilot study with 1 
year follow-up 
Open label  
Expanded access program 
Expanded access program 
Completed 
Ongoing (results 
available for one 
year follow-up) 
Completed 
Completed 
Completed 
Ongoing 
Ongoing 
Ongoing 
Ongoing 
P00420 
P01522 
P01205 
P02162 
P01533 
P01227 
P02060 
EAP 1 
EAP 2 
Total 
21 
40 
50 
38 
8 
21 
21 
ITT 
Patients 
Total  AS 
11 
11 
70 
60 
Per Protocol 
AS 
10 
FU: 8 
27 infliximab 
33 placebo 
10 
10 
19 
50 
9 infliximab 
10 placebo 
48 
29 
26 infliximab 
8 
21 
21 
8 infliximab 
18 infiximab 
17 infliximab 
(8 pts. for 1-y-
evaluation) 
216, thereof 173 
infliximab 
280 
239 
Psoriatic arthritis: 
The  pivotal  trial,  study  P02114  (IMPACT)  was  an  investigator-initiated,  multicentre  study  in  104 
subjects with PsA and peripheral polyarticular arthritis who had failed at least 1 DMARD. The study 
design  included  a  16-week,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  treatment  (Stage  I), 
followed by a 34-week, open-label treatment period (Stage II).  
Study  C0168T31  (SPIRIT),  a  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  Phase  II  Centocor-
sponsored  study  of  249  subjects  with  moderate-to-severe  (≥12  PASI-score)  plaque-type  psoriasis.  
provided additional safety information related to the proposed dosage of 5 mg/kg without concomitant 
DMARD  use.  Available  data  from  6  completed  and  1  ongoing  investigator-initiated  studies  in  PsA 
including  a  total  of  133  patients  with  PsA  provided  additional  information  about  the  efficacy  of 
infliximab. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics in Crohn’s disease 
After administration of infliximab (1, 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg), serum concentrations of TNFα in Crohn’s 
disease patients showed a consistent pattern in which low levels (5 to 25 pg/ml) of TNFα at baseline 
were first reduced below the level of detection (< 3 pg/ml) at one hour, followed by a rise in TNFα 
from  4  to  72  hours.  Peak  TNFα  concentrations  were  detected  at  72  hours  or  2  weeks  following 
infusion and then declined to baseline levels by 12 weeks. The peak concentrations (60 to 80 pg/ml of 
TNFα) were greater in the high dose groups compared with the low dose groups. The persistence of 
detectable TNFα was also more prolonged in the higher dose groups. The increased concentrations of 
TNFα  observed  4  to  72  hours  after  administration  were  most  likely  due  to  the  formation  of 
infliximab/TNFα complexes as observed in studies in mice.  
11/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunohistochemical  analyses  of  biopsies  from  patients  in  acute  Crohn’s  disease  (T16)  showed  a 
marked decrease in tissue TNFα after infliximab treatment. Infliximab doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg 
demonstrated  substantial  declines  in  interleukin  (IL)  6  to  the  normal  range  at  2  weeks  while  in  the 
placebo group, IL-6 values increased at two and four weeks. Between baseline and two weeks, a sharp 
decline in C-reactive protein (CRP) was evident in all three infliximab dose groups. Total peripheral 
white  blood  cell  counts  were  modestly  lowered  in  infliximab-treated  patients.  Analyses  of  lamina 
propria  mononuclear  cells  obtained  by  biopsy  of  the  intestinal  mucosa  suggested  that  infliximab 
treatment  caused  a  reduction  in  the  numbers  of  cells  capable  of  expressing  TNFα  and  interferon 
gamma.  Additional  histological  studies  showed  that  infliximab  treatment  reduced  inflammatory  cell 
infiltration into affected areas of the intestine, reduced the levels of detectable TNFα and reduced the 
expression  of  other  inflammatory  markers  at  these  sites.  Taken  together,  these  data  support  the 
proposed  mechanism  of  action  of  infliximab,  i.e.  inhibition  of  TNFα  resulting  in  suppression  of 
inflammation. 
Pharmacodynamics in RA 
In clinical trials, serum, blood and tissue samples were analysed for the presence of markers of chronic 
inflammation or abnormal immune response. These studies have shown that infliximab was capable of 
neutralising  free  TNFα  in  a  dose  dependent  fashion  (C0168T03),  and  no  rebound  effects  have  been 
noticed after treatment discontinuation (C0168T09). In study C0168T09, where RA patients received 
10 mg/kg of infliximab, serum amyloid A, acute phase reactant, VEGF, IL 8, e-selectine, ICAM-1 and 
VCAM-1  and  matrix  metalloproteinase-3  were  decreased  after  one  or  a  few  weeks  of  treatment, 
relative to  baseline levels. In study C0168T18, decreased  monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels 
in  the  synovial  tissue  were  observed  at  two  weeks.  Over  the  course  of  treatment,  total  white  blood 
counts (WBC) remained unchanged. Eosinophils and basophils comprised minor fractions of the total 
counts  and  did  not  show  dramatic  changes  over  time.  Increases  in  lymphocyte  counts  and 
accompanying decreases in neutrophil counts were evident in both 1 and 10 mg/kg treatment groups. 
Infliximab treatment did not exacerbate the already depressed cell-mediated immunity response seen 
in RA patients (Pope et al, 1993). These pharmacodynamic data do not indicate that infliximab has a 
general immunosuppressive effect during short-term. On the other hand, experimental data show that 
TNFα is essential for the clearing of intracellular infections. Moreover, clinical experience shows that 
host  defence  against  infection  is  compromised  in  some  patients  treated  with  infliximab.  No 
pharmacodynamic data are available on the long-term effects of infliximab on the immune system.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The analytical methods used for analyses of infliximab in serum, as well as analyses of antibodies to 
infliximab are not specific due to interference caused by free infliximab in the antibody analysis and 
vice  versa.  Thus,  the  interpretation  of  serum  levels  of  infliximab  and  the  analysis  of  antibodies  to 
infliximab should be made with caution.  
Having  the  limitations  of  the  analytical  methods  in  mind,  the  available  pharmacokinetic  data  for 
infliximab can be summarised as follows. After administration of 5 mg/kg of infliximab, the plasma 
concentration of free infliximab remained in the same order as Cmax (118 µg/ml, range: 71-283 µg/ml) 
for  approximately  24  hours.  The  concentrations  then  declined  exponentially  with  a  half-life  of  8-10 
days. Detectable concentrations of free infliximab have been observed for up to 28 weeks (mean 12 
weeks)  after  the  recommended  dose  regimen  in  Crohn’s  disease  for  closure  of  enterocutaneous 
fistulae.  Clearance  of free infliximab  was  about  11 ml/h (range  3-40  ml/h).  No clinically significant 
dose- or time dependencies have been observed in the pharmacokinetics of free infliximab. There are 
no specific studies regarding metabolism or excretion of infliximab in humans. Since infliximab can 
be  expected  to  be  eliminated  in  a  similar  manner  as  native  antibodies,  this  is  considered  to  be 
acceptable.  Furthermore,  no  studies  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  infliximab  have  been  performed  in 
patients  with  impaired  organ  functions.  Adequate  warning  statements  have  been  included  in  the 
labelling.  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  infliximab  in  RA  patients  appear  to  be  similar  to  the  pharmacokinetics 
observed in patients with Crohn´s disease and under multiple dose treatment, the plasma levels were 
12/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as expected from the single-dose data. In an interaction study with methotrexate (MTX), the plasma 
concentrations  of  infliximab  were  slightly  increased  by  MTX.  The  effect  was  most  profound  in  the 
low  dose  (1  mg/kg)  group.  Lower  frequencies  of  patients  with  antibodies  to  infliximab  were  also 
observed  during  MTX  co-treatment,  although  these  data  are  uncertain  due  to  methodological 
limitations for the determination of antibodies to infliximab. (see above and section on Antibodies to 
infliximab below).  
Pharmacokinetic  studies  indicated  that  most  patients  given  one  infusion  of  5  mg/kg  had  detectable 
plasma concentrations of infliximab for 8 weeks. Patients who were given three infusions of 5 mg/kg 
had  detectable  plasma  concentrations  of  infliximab  for  a  mean  of  12  weeks  after  the  last  dose 
administration (with a range of 4 to 28 weeks).  
Clinical Efficacy 
Crohn’s disease 
Two  small  non-controlled  pilot  studies  in  patients  with  Crohn’s  disease  indicated  that  infliximab 
treatment induced clinical  improvement in around  70 %  of  the  patients (C0168T08 and C0168T11). 
Following  this,  one  dose-response  study  in  moderate  to  severe  active  Crohn’s  disease,  defined  as 
Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) between 220 and 400, was performed (C0168T16). This was 
a  multicentre, randomised, parallel, double blind, placebo-controlled study consisting of two phases: 
the initial treatment phase and the repeated treatment phase. The initial treatment phase evaluated the 
effects  of  a  single  infusion  of  placebo  or  infliximab.  At  week  0,  a  total  of  108  patients  of  whom 
approximately  76  %  were  non-responders  to  ongoing  therapy  with  corticosteroids  or  other 
immunosuppressive medication were randomised to 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg infliximab or placebo. Patients 
who were not responding four weeks after the initial infusion were offered an open-label infusion of 
10  mg/kg  infliximab.  Seventy-three  patients  who  were  responding  at  week  eight  (decrease  of  >  70 
CDAI  scores),  following  the  initial  blinded  infusion  or  open-label  infusion  (at  week  four),  were  re-
randomised  and  participated  in  the  repeated  treatment  phase.  The  patients  were  subsequently  given 
10 mg/kg  infliximab  or  placebo  at  weeks  12,  20,  28  and  36.  A  last  clinical  and/or  laboratory 
evaluation was  performed  at week 48.  Clinical efficacy and  safety endpoints  were relevant.  Patients 
with intraabdominal infections/abscesses were not examined. No residual benefits, e.g. on the need for 
corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants were studied. 
Overall,  54  of  83  infliximab-treated  patients  (65%)  achieved  a  clinical  response  at  the  week  four 
compared  to  four  of  the  24  placebo  patients  (17%).  The  proportion  of  patients  who  responded  was 
significantly higher in each infliximab treatment group compared with the placebo group. There was 
no  apparent  relationship  between  infliximab  dose  and  the  proportion  of  patients  who  responded;  in 
fact,  the  5  mg/kg  dose  group  (27  patients)  showed  the  highest  response  rate  (82%,  p<0.001  vs. 
placebo).  
13/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 1. Kaplan-Meier curve for median time to loss of response in days – Initial treatment phase. 
In  the  re-treatment  phase,  a  gradual  loss  of  efficacy  was  seen  after  each  infusion.  Due  to  the  study 
design which allowed non-responding patients at week four to receive 10 mg of infliximab, and thus 
all  patients  had  received  infliximab  at  re-randomisation  at  12  weeks,  it  was  concluded  that  efficacy 
could only be assessed up to 12 weeks. At this time point, 13/27 (48%) of infliximab treated patients 
were still responding. 
Subgroup analyses could not identify patient characteristics predictive of response/non-response.  
In  patients  initially  responding,  results  for  the  CDAI,  quality-of-life  measurement  (IBDQ)  and  the 
serum  marker  of  inflammation  (CRP)  showed  a  continued  suppression  of  disease  activity after  each 
infliximab  re-treatment  and  gradual  return  of  disease  activity  with  placebo  re-treatment.  Half  of  the 
infliximab-treated patients had withdrawn from the study at week 48, mostly because of side effects or 
lack of efficacy.  
Concerns  were  raised  during  the  procedure  about  the  limited  efficacy  data  in  refractory  Crohn's 
disease.  However,  due  to  the  clear-cut  response  in  the  5  mg  dose  group  and  the  support  of  similar 
responses in the 10 and 20 mg dose groups, the data from this phase II trial was considered sufficient 
to give a positive view of short-term efficacy in this selected patient group.  
Additional  data  on  long-term  efficacy  of  re-treatment  of  active  CD  were  obtained  from  ACCENT  I 
(C0168T21),  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  clinical  trial  of  maintenance  infliximab 
treatment compared with a single dose of infliximab in 580 patients with moderately to severely active 
Crohn´s  disease  (CD).  The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  examine  whether  patients 
responding 2 weeks after a single 5 mg/kg infusion of infliximab benefited from further treatments 2 
and 6 weeks later followed by treatments every 8 weeks, compared with placebo treatment following 
the  initial  infusion.  The  design  of  the  ACCENT  I  study  was  complicated  and  only  patients  with 
moderate  disease  were  included.  The  data  from  single  infliximab  treatment  can  therefore  only  be 
compared to maintenance infliximab treatment within the first 10-12 weeks. 
As in previous studies the rate of response to the initial infusion of infliximab was about 60%. In the 
responders, after the initial infusion of infliximab the remission rates at week 30 and 54 as well as time 
to  loss  of  response  were  significantly  higher  in  patients  receiving  maintenance  treatment  with 
infliximab  compared  with  placebo  infusions.  However,  the  efficacy  results  mainly  reflected 
differences  in  clinician  interventions  (change  in  medication,  mostly  corticosteroids)  between  the 
14/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groups  and  not  decrease  in  CDAI  score.  Infliximab improved  the  quality  of  life  (evaluated  with  the 
IBDQ SF-36).  
At  week  10,  the  proportion  of  patients  in  clinical  remission/clinical  response  was  greater  in  the 
infliximab groups compared with placebo indicating that in patients responding to an initial 5 mg/kg 
infusion of infliximab, induction therapy with 2 additional infusions after 2 and 6 weeks may be more 
efficient than a single dose. However, due to the design of the study, no conclusion could be drawn 
regarding the 3 dose regimen compared to a single infusion followed by treatment every 8 weeks since 
this comparison was not made.  
For  most  endpoints,  the  infliximab  10  mg/kg  group  seemed  to  be  superior  to  the  5  mg/kg  dose. 
However, concerns regarding the safety of the 10 mg/kg dose outweigh its possible benefits in CD and 
this dose cannot be recommended for use. 
As the population in the trial (moderately active disease, and few patients with documented inadequate 
response  to  standard  therapy  with  both  corticosteroids  and  immunomodulators)  differed  from  the 
population  defined  in  the  current  SPC,  the  CHMP  did  not  accept  a  full  extension  of  the  existing 
indication  with  maintenance  therapy.  However,  based  on  additional  sub-group  analyses  showing 
efficacy in the restricted population defined in the SPC, and as early response status was found to be a 
reliable predictor of a later response, the posology section was amended in such a way to reassure that 
only  patients  who  benefit  from  treatment  will  receive  long-term  therapy  with  Remicade  either  as 
maintenance  or  as  episodic  readministration  after  flare-up.  Please  refer  to  EPAR  module  3  for  the 
detailed wording. 
Fistulising  Crohn’s  disease  was  addressed  in  a  multicentre,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind,  3-arm, 
parallel group study (C0168T20). Patients with draining enterocutaneous fistulae (approximately 50 % 
had  one fistula) as a complication  of  Crohn’s disease were included,  of whom  93 %  previously had 
been  treated  aggressively  with  either  antibiotics  or  immunosuppressive  drugs.  A  total  of  96  patients 
were given single infusions of 5, 10 mg/kg infliximab or placebo at weeks 0, 2 and 6.  
The primary efficacy response (> 50% reduction from baseline in the number of draining fistulae for 
at least 2 consecutive evaluation visits , at least 1 month apart) is shown in Table 3. Also CDAI scores 
were reduced in the infliximab treated patients in comparison with the placebo group. 
Table 3 shows the primary efficacy response in patients with Fistulising Crohn’s disease 
Placebo 
(n= 31) 
5 mg/kg 
(n= 31) 
10 mg/kg 
(n= 32) 
Pts with primary 
endpoint 
p-value vs. placebo 
8 
(26%) 
21 
(68%) 
0.002 
18 
(56%) 
0.021 
All infliximab-
treated patients 
(n= 63) 
39 
(62%) 
0.002 
Dose Response 
p-value 
0.017 
The median onset of response was 14 days. The duration of closure of the fistulae varied. In patients 
who  met  the  response  criteria,  7  out  of  39  responded  over  the  whole  study  period  of  26  weeks,  7 
responded  over  6  visits  and  5  over  5  visits.  The  median  duration  of  response  was  12  weeks.  The 
number of patients with a complete response in the 5 mg/kg group at two consecutive visits was 55 %.  
The long-term treatment of Crohn’s disease patients with draining enterocutaneous and/or rectovaginal 
fistulas  was  studied  in  the  ACCENT  II  (C0168T26)  study.  This  was  a  multicentre,  randomised, 
double-blind,  clinical  trial  of  maintenance  infliximab  treatment  compared  with  a  3-dose  induction 
regimen of infliximab only in 306 patients. Results from the ACCENT II trial did not show superiority 
of  infliximab  over  placebo  with  regard  to  sustained  healing  of  all  fistulas    (24%  versus  16%). 
Infliximab  did  not  reduce  the  number  of  new  fistulas  compared  with  placebo.  Sub-group  analysis 
further indicated that long-term treatment with infliximab was only better than placebo in patients with 
active  fistulising  CD.  Symptomatic  benefit  for  the  patient  has  not  been  shown.  Whether  infliximab 
15/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maintenance  treatment  should  be  given  on-demand  or  as  regular  treatment  with  8  weeks  interval 
remained unanswered.  
In severe active Crohn’s disease, available data do not support further infliximab treatment, in patients 
not  responding  within  2  weeks  to  the  initial  infusion.  In  fistulising  Crohn’s  disease,  data  do  not 
support further infliximab treatment, if the patient does not respond to the 3 initial infusions. 
Rheumatoid arthritis  
Efficacy  and  safety of  infliximab were studied in  six clinical  studies  in 660  patients with active RA 
(C0168T07,  C0168T09,  C0168T14,  C0168T15/17,  C0168T18  and  C0168T22  -  ATTRACT).  In 
general,  the  studies  were  well  designed.  The  inclusion  criteria  as  well  as  the  endpoints  were  in 
agreement  with  EULAR  28,  ACR  20  and  the  CHMP  Points  to  consider  document  on  RA 
(CPMP/EWP/556/95).  All  patients  included  were  RA  patients  with  active  erosive  disease,  who  had 
failed to adequately respond to disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) treatment. In three of 
the  studies,  infliximab  was  administered  in  conjunction  with  methotrexate  (MTX)  either  at  doses  of 
7.5 mg or ≥12.5 mg. Concurrent treatment with corticosteroids (< 10 mg/day) and nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory  drugs  (NSAIDs)  was  permitted,  but  these  treatments  were  required  to  be  stable 
therapeutic regimens. Concurrent treatment with a DMARD other than MTX was not permitted. 
In study T09, 73 patients received either a single dose of 1 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg or placebo. Patients who 
initially responded but relapsed after week four and prior to the six-month evaluation, or who had not 
shown  a  response  at  week  four,  were  offered  a  single,  open-label  infliximab  infusion  of  3,  10  or 
20 mg/kg. This study indicated a dose-dependent effect with 55 % and 77 % response in the 1 mg/kg 
and 10 mg/kg groups, respectively compared with 12 % in the placebo group. In the open-label phase, 
no difference in response rates was observed between 3, 10 and 20 mg/kg. Studies T07, T15/17 and 
T18 provided additional support for the effect of infliximab in this population. 
In study T14, a total of 101 patients were given 1, 3, 10 mg/kg or placebo either alone (MTX-) or in 
combination  with  7.5  mg  methotrexate  (MTX+)  at  day  0  and  weeks  two,  six,  10,  and  14  and  were 
followed for 26 weeks. Irrespective of co-administration of MTX or not, the 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg 
infliximab groups showed similar efficacy, both in terms of duration and magnitude of the response. 
Furthermore,  the  magnitude  and  duration  of  efficacy  were  similar  for  the  1  mg/kg  MTX+  and  the 
3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups. However, the duration of the clinical response was markedly shorter in 
the  1mg/kg  MTX-  group,  which  correlated  with  a  decrease  in  detectable  infliximab  concentrations. 
Additionally, the detection of infliximab in serum following the final 14-week treatment was longer in 
all infliximab MTX+ groups than in groups without MTX. Data from patients who could be evaluated 
for  antibodies to infliximab, may suggest an inverted dose-dependency of development of antibodies 
to infliximab. Additionally, MTX may have suppressed the development of antibodies to infliximab, 
at  least  in  the  1  mg/kg  group.  However,  the  findings  may  also  be  related  to  the  methodological 
limitations  of  the  detection  of  antibodies  to  infliximab.  In  conclusion,  MTX  seemed  to  have  little 
impact on the efficacy of the 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg doses. Additionally, there was no dose-response 
relationship between the 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg doses irrespective of MTX or not, while the 1 mg/kg 
MTX-  regimen  resulted  in  less  efficacy  than  the  other  regimens.  However,  the  limited  number  of 
patients in each group has hampered the interpretation of the study results. 
The pivotal phase III study C0168T22 (ATTRACT), including 428 patients, is a double-blind, multi-
centre,  randomised  clinical  trial  of  infliximab  in  patients  with  active  RA  despite  MTX  treatment 
during  30-weeks  with  extensions  to  54  and  102  weeks.  Approximately  50%  of  patients  were  in 
functional Class III, and the median disease duration was 8.4 years. All patients were on stable MTX 
doses  (median  15 mg/wk)  for  6 months  prior  to  enrolment  and  were  to  remain  on  stable  doses 
throughout  the  study.  Concurrent  use  of  stable  doses  of  oral  corticosteroids  (≤ 10 mg/day)  and/or 
NSAIDs was permitted, and folate supplementation was given. All patients continued on MTX, with 
placebo or different dosage regimens of infliximab as add on treatment (Table 4). 
16/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 shows the treatment regimens in ATTRACT 
Group 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Treatment 
Placebo infusions weeks 0, 2, and 6 and every 4 weeks thereafter 
3 mg/kg infliximab infusions at weeks 0, 2, 6 and every 8 weeks 
3mg/kg infliximab infusions at weeks 0, 2, 6 and every 4 weeks 
10 mg/kg infliximab infusions at weeks 0, 2, 6 and every 8 weeks 
10 mg/kg infliximab infusions at weeks 0, 2, 6 and every 4 weeks 
N 
88 
86 
86 
87 
81 
After 54 weeks, while still blinded, the patients were given the opportunity to continue on randomised 
treatment  through  102  weeks.  In  total  53  patients  (16  on  MTX  alone,  8  on  3mg/kg  q  8  wks,  9  on 
3mg/kg q 4wks, 10 on 10 mg/kg q 4 wks and 10 on 10mg/kg q 8wks) chose not to enter the 2nd year. 
Patients were subsequently unblinded to whether they were receiving placebo or infliximab infusions 
(but not to infliximab dose regimens). Patients in the MTX alone group were given the opportunity to 
end  their  participation  in  the  study  and  receive  infliximab.  In  total  7  patients  chose  to  receive 
infliximab.  
The  primary  endpoints  were  the  reduction  of  signs  and  symptoms  as  assessed  by  the  American 
College of Rheumatology criteria, the prevention of structural joint damage, and the improvement in 
physical function. A reduction in signs and symptoms was defined to be at least a 20% improvement 
(ACR20)  in  both  tender  and  swollen  joint  counts,  and  in  3 of  the  following  5 criteria:  evaluator’s 
global  assessment,  patient’s  global  assessment,  functional/disability  measure,  visual  analogue  pain 
scale and erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein. The Health Assessment Questionnaire 
(HAQ;  scale 0-3)  was  used  to  measure  patients’  average  change  from  baseline  scores  over  time,  in 
physical function. Structural joint damage (erosions and joint space narrowing) in both hands and feet 
was measured by the change from baseline in the total van der Heijde-modified Sharp score (0-440). 
X-ray data were obtained at baseline, weeks 30, 54 and 102. 
Overall, the scoring systems used in the ATTRACT trial, and the evaluation procedure are considered 
acceptable.  All  four  dose  regimens  were  effective  and  had  a  greater  response  (ACR≥20  %)  than 
placebo  (Table  5).  Some  of  the  secondary  endpoints,  such  as  morning  stiffness,  fatigue,  number  of 
swollen and tender joints and patients global pain assessment indicated a somewhat better effect with 
10 mg/kg compared with 3 mg/kg. This was, however, not statistically significant. This study (or any 
other  study)  has  not  investigated  whether  patients  not  responding  on  3  mg/kg  will  respond  on 
10 mg/kg,  thus  this  remains  to  be  investigated.  Taking  the  efficacy  as  well  as  the  adverse  event 
profiles into account, the 3 mg/kg q.8 week is considered the most appropriate dose recommendation. 
The  efficacy  was  sustained  throughout  the  30-week  period  and  there  was  no  difference  whether 
Remicade  was  given  every  fourth  or  eighth  week.  Inflammatory  parameters  such  as  CRP  and  ESR 
decreased (CRP by 68 % versus 9 % with placebo at 30 weeks) during treatment, which indicated a 
reduced  inflammatory  activity.  Furthermore,  efficacy  results  for  ACR  and  HAQ  were  similar  at  the 
54 weeks evaluation and results also seemed to persist over the studied period of 102 weeks.  
X-ray  analyses  at  week  54  showed  a  statistically  significant  effect  (p<0.001,  Table  5)  on  van  der 
Heijde-modified  Sharp  score  for  all  Remicade  dosage  regimens  compared  to  the  MTX-only  group 
(p<0.001,  Table  5).    In  the  combined  Remicade  group,  52%  compared  with  20%  in  the  MTX-only 
group, had no deterioration in van der Heijde-modified Sharp score. There was a tendency of a better 
effect for the higher dosage groups. Effects were demonstrated for both components of the total score 
(erosions  and  space  narrowing)  and  in  a  variety  of  relevant  subgroups  demonstrating  internal 
consistency.  However,  there  were  a  considerable  number  of  treatment  withdrawals  in  the  trial. 
Therefore, a  careful  examination of the withdrawal  pattern  and the  policy for  handling  missing  data 
was performed. It was concluded that the number of withdrawals due to adverse events was similar in 
all study groups and was not expected to cause any bias. Furthermore, there was no reason to expect 
that the differential withdrawal due to lack of efficacy had caused any serious bias.  
17/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Effects on ACR20, Structural Joint Damage and Physical Function at week 54 
Patients with ACR20 response/ 
patients evaluated (%)c 
Total scored (van der Heijde-modified 
Sharp score) 
Change from baseline (Mean ± SDc ) 
Medianc  
(Interquartile range) 
infliximabb 
Controla 
15/88 
(17%) 
3 mg/kg 
q 8 wks 
36/86 
(42%) 
3 mg/kg  
q 4 wks 
41/86 
(48%) 
10 mg/kg  
q 8 wks 
51/87 
(59%) 
10 mg/kg  
q 4 wks 
48/81 
(59%) 
All 
infliximabb 
176/340 
(52%) 
7.0 ± 10.3 1.3 ± 6.0  1.6 ± 8.5  0.2 ± 3.6 
-0.7 ± 3.8
0.6 ± 5.9 
4.0 
(0.5,9.7) 
0.5 
(-1.5,3.0)
0.1 
(-2.5,3.0) 
0.5 
(-1.5,2.0) 
-0.5 
(-3.0,1.5) 
0.0 
(-1.8,2.0) 
Patients with no deterioration/patients 
evaluated (%)c 
13/64 
(20%) 
34/71 
(48%) 
35/71 
(49%) 
37/77 
(48%) 
44/66 
(67%) 
150/285 
(53%) 
HAQ change from baseline over timee 
(patients evaluated) 
Mean ± SDc 
87 
86 
85 
87 
81 
339 
0.2 ± 0.3  0.4 ± 0.3  0.5 ± 0.4  0.5 ± 0.5  0.4 ± 0.4 
0.4 ± 0.4 
a: control = All patients had active RA despite treatment with stable methotrexate doses for 6 months prior 
to enrolment and were to remain on stable doses throughout the study. Concurrent use of stable doses of 
oral corticosteroids (≤ 10 mg/day) and/or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was permitted, and folate 
supplementation was given. 
b: all infliximab doses given in combination with methotrexate and folate with some on corticosteroids 
and/or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
c: p < 0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs. control 
d: greater values indicate more joint damage. 
e: HAQ = Health Assessment Questionnaire; greater values indicate less disability. 
Based on additional data from ATTRACT (provided as part of a follow-up measure for evaluation of 
possible benefit of further treatment in initial non-responders) the CHMP concluded within the fourth 
annual reassessment, that available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 
12 weeks of treatment. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no 
evidence of therapeutic benefit  within  this time  period. This  information  was  added to the  posology 
section of the SPC. 
18/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  indication  in  RA  was  extended  to  add  treatment  of  methotrexate-naïve  subjects  with  early 
rheumatoid arthritis based on one clinical study, ASPIRE. The results of this study (see Table 6) have 
shown  that  infliximab  administered  as  low  as  3  mg/kg  at  week  0,  2,  6,  and  then  every  8  weeks  in 
combination with MTX is an efficacious treatment for patients with early RA and is better than MTX 
alone. 
Summary of primary efficacy endpoints; randomised subjects 
Table 6 Results of the ASPIRE study 
Subjects randomised 
Signs and Symptoms: 
Percentage ACR improvement 
at week 54 
Median 
p-value 
Structural Damage: 
Change from baseline in total 
vdH-S score at week 54 
Median 
p-value 
Physical Function: 
Improvement from baseline in 
HAQ averaged over time from 
week 30 to week 54 
Median 
p-value 
Placebo + MTX 
282 
3 mg/kg 
359 
Infliximab + MTX 
6 mg/kg 
363 
Combined 
722 
26.4 
0.43 
38.9 
< 0.001 
46.7 
< 0.001 
44.3 
< 0.001 
0.00 
< 0.001 
0.00 
< 0.001 
0.00 
< 0.001 
0.750 
0.784 
0.030 
0.792 
< 0.001 
0.784 
0.001 
a Excludes subjects with missing week-54 erosion score. 
19/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 
Secondary endpoints related to signs and symptoms  
Subjects randomised 
n 
ACR 20 at week 54 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
ACR 50 at week 54 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
ACR 70 at week 54 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
ACR 90 at week 54 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
Percentage ACR 
improvement averaged 
over time 
n  
Median 
p-value 
at least 1 follow-up visit (n)
ACR20 response at a 
majority of visits (>5) (n) 
p-value 
Major clinical response 
(n) 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
Placebo + MTX 
282 
274 
3 mg/kg 
359 
351 
6 mg/kg 
363 
355 
Combined 
722 
706 
Infliximab + MTX 
147 (53.6%) 
219 (62.4%) 
0.028 
235 (66.2%) 
0.001 
454 (64.3%) 
0.002 
88 (32.1%) 
58 (21.2%) 
18 (6.6%) 
272 
21.4 
276 
122 (44.2%) 
273 
21 (7.7%) 
160 (45.6%) 
<0.001 
179 (50.4%) 
<0.001 
339 (48%) 
<0.001 
114 (32.5%) 
0.002 
132 (37.2%) 
<0.001 
246 (34.8%) 
<0.001 
35 (10.0%) 
0.130 
60 (16.9%) 
<0.001 
95 (13.5%) 
0.002 
348 
36.4 
<0.001 
354 
352 
42.7 
<0.001 
358 
700 
40.9 
<0.001 
712 
205 (57.9%) 
<0.001 
348 
234 (65.4%) 
<0.001 
352 
439 (61.7%) 
<0.001 
700 
43 (12.4%) 
0.058 
61 (17.3%) 
<0.001 
104 (14.9%) 
0.003 
The benefit of this combination was rapid and mostly clinically significant. The superiority over MTX 
alone was robust and consistent across subgroups.  Signs and symptoms of the active disease could be 
reduced  and  maintained  through  week  54;  the  therapy  prevented  new  erosions,  and  stopped  the 
progression of structural damage; improvement in physical function was clinically significant. 
As a result of the assessment, the CHMP requested further clarifications on the conduct of the trial and 
on  elements  of  the  trial  analysis  (such  as  MTX  use  and  folic  acid  use  in  the  3  groups,  baseline 
covariate analysis). Based on the additional data the robustness of the obtained results was confirmed.   
The  CHMP  also  noted  that  there  was  a  general  tendency  towards  better  efficacy  with  the  higher 
6mg/kg  dose  of  infliximab  and  requested  explanation  on  the  rationale  for  the  recommended  dose  of 
3mg/kg. In this response the MAH referred to the ATTRACT study. Indeed, data from all dose groups 
in  ATTRACT,  which  reflect  this  tendency,  are  already  present  in  the  SPC,  section  5.1 
Pharmacodynamics.  The CHMP observed that data from an ongoing randomised, double-blind trial of 
the  safety  of  infliximab  in  combination  with  MTX  compared  to  MTX  alone  in  patients  with  RA  on 
standard DMARD background therapy are expected. One secondary objective of this trial is to assess 
the safety and efficacy of dose-escalation regimens above 3 mg/kg of infliximab given every 8 weeks 
in patients with an incomplete response to 3 mg/kg. Therefore, the submission of these data is awaited 
to allow a better assessment of the benefit /risk of dose escalation in RA patients. Thus, no change in 
the posology is proposed at the present stage. 
20/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
The extension of the therapeutic indication is mainly based on one investigator-driven study including 
70 subjects (protocol P01522). Efficacy for up to one year has been demonstrated in the pivotal trial, 
and these effects are supported by small additional studies. The pivotal study was designed as follows: 
Phase A (Weeks 0–12) was a double-blind, placebo-controlled phase to assess short-term efficacy of 
infliximab.  Subjects were to receive either 5 mg/kg infliximab i.v. (n=30) or placebo (n=30) at Weeks 
0, 2 and 6.  
Phase  B  (Week  12  to  Week  54)  was  an  open-label,  non-comparative  phase  to  assess  long-term 
efficacy and safety of infliximab.  Phase B started at Week 12, after completion of questionnaires by 
the  subject  and  physician.    At  Week  14,  an  additional  infusion  was  administered  such  that  subjects 
who had received placebo in Phase A received 5 mg/kg infliximab i.v.  In order to maintain the blind, 
subjects  who  had  received  5  mg/kg  infliximab  i.v.  during  Phase A  received  a  placebo  infusion  at 
Week 14.  All further infusions were administered every 6 weeks (i.e., at Weeks 18, 24, 30, 36, 42 and 
48). One-year efficacy was assessed at Week 54. 
Long-term extension: the open-label treatment could be extended to 102 weeks with follow-up visits 
at 108 and 114 weeks 
A per protocol population was defined; by this definition 60 patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
were  enrolled;  27  in  the  infliximab  arm  and  33  in  the  placebo  arm.  The  studied  patient  group  was 
heterogeneous e.g. with respect to degree of inflammatory activity. In phase A, the primary endpoint 
(50% improvement in BASDAI) was reached in 22/27 infliximab patients. The open follow-up (phase 
B) showed similar improvement in patients who switched from placebo to infliximab. 
The CHMP requested supplementary information with regard to the following issues.  
Definition of a population where the benefit / risk may be positive. 
Additional statistical analyses of trial P01522 indicated that patients who are HLA-B27 positive with 
laboratory markers of immune activation (CRP, ANA, ESR) are the subset of AS patients most likely 
to maximally benefit from infliximab treatment. 
As  patients  with  severe  axial  symptoms  lack  treatment  options  and  as  the  additional  analyses 
submitted  support  patients  with  increased  inflammatory  activity  are  most  likely  to  gain  benefit,  the 
CHMP considered that a restricted AS population is relevant. 
The selected dose regimen (6 weekly maintenance dosing, as monotherapy). 
In  the  pivotal  AS  trial  (P01522),  the  dose  regimen  of  5  mg/kg  weeks  0,  2,  6  and  thereafter  every  
6  weeks  without  second  line  therapy,  was  selected  because  a  pilot  trial  identified  a  median  time  to 
relapse  of  about  6  weeks.    The  MAH  concluded  from  available  experience  that  a  3  mg/kg  dose 
regimen given with or without second line therapy (generally MTX), may not be sufficiently effective. 
Based on data from an ongoing open study (P01227), showing that a dosing interval of 8 weeks may 
be  sufficient  in  certain  patients,  the  MAH  proposed  a  flexible  6-8  weeks  dose  interval  of  5  mg/kg. 
Thus,  the  CHMP  accepted  the  following  dose  regimen:  5  mg/kg  weeks  0,  2  and  6,  and  thereafter 
maintenance dosing every 6-8 week.  
Moreover,  based  on  data  showing  that  patients  who  do  not  improve  by  6  weeks  after  initiation  of 
dosing  (thus  given  2  doses)  are  unlikely  to  improve  later,  and  therefore  do  not  warrant  further 
exposure to infliximab, this information was also included in the SPC.  
Regarding  monotherapy,  according 
there  may  be  some  benefit  of  using 
the  MAH 
immunosuppressive  agents  to  delay  the  formation  of  antibodies  against  infliximab.  But  as  these 
medicinal products have no established role in the management of AS, the CHMP decided it cannot be 
justified to require them for combination with infliximab therapy only for this reason.  
to 
21/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Bridging to experience in RA and CD 
Based on published experience in AS, there are few controlled trials in AS. Available data for agents 
with established benefit in RA such as methotrexate and sulfasalazine, indicate that they do not result 
in convincing benefit in AS, and lack effects on severe axial symptoms. Also oral corticosteroids are 
of little benefit in AS. Thus, these data show that effects of medicinal products demonstrated in RA 
and CD, cannot be extrapolated to AS.  
Further analyses by the MAH have also indicated certain differences in the response to different dose 
regime of infliximab in the RA, CD and AS populations. For instance a 3 mg/kg dose regimen given 
with or without second line therapy (generally MTX), may not be sufficiently effective in AS. This is 
in  contrast  to  RA,  where  the  approved  dose  regimen  of  3  mg/kg  weeks  0,  2,  6  and  thereafter  every 
8 weeks together with MTX, has shown long-term efficacy including benefit on joint damage for up to 
2 years. 
The discussion of the presented data resulted in a well-defined indication where the most severely ill 
patients, with few available treatment options, will  be considered for treatment with infliximab. The 
CHMP accepted the 6-8 weeks dose interval. In addition, the proposed recommendation not to further 
administer Remicade in a patient who does not respond after 2 doses, will reassure that only patients 
who  benefit  from  treatment  will  receive  long-term  therapy  with  Remicade.  As  the  application  was 
based  on limited data, the MAH committed to provide further data on long-term safety and efficacy 
upon completion of the trials at the request from CHMP. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
The pivotal trial, study P02114 (IMPACT) in support of this application is a clinical study in patients 
with  active  PsA  and  peripheral  polyarticular  arthritis  who  had  failed  at  least  1  DMARD.  
The  study  consisted  of  two  stages.  In  stage  I,  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  either  
5  mg/kg  infliximab  (n=52)  or  placebo  (n=52)  infusions  at  weeks  0,  2,  6,  and  14.  In  stage  II,  all 
subjects  received  5  mg/kg  infliximab  at  weeks,  22,  30,  38,  and  46.  Data  covering  50  weeks  of 
treatment were presented. 
The  dose  5mg/kg  was  chosen  because  this  is  the  lowest  dose  studied  in  monotherapy,  without 
concomitant  MTX.  The  primary  objective  was  to  study  efficacy  (ACR20)  of  infliximab  compared 
with  placebo  at  week  16  and  to  determine  safety  of  infliximab  in  active  PsA  patients  who  failed  at 
least  one  DMARD.  Secondary  objective  was  to  follow  response  of  skin  involvement,  percentage 
ACR20  over  time,  and  ACR50  and  70,  Disease  activity  score  (DAS),  Psoriatic  response  criteria 
(PsARC).  AUC  percentage  ACR  improvement  (ACRn),  and  change  in  joint  scores  at  week  16  and 
week 50. 
The  pivotal  study  in  PsA  (IMPACT)  was  small  and  of  short  duration  (16  weeks).  Other  submitted 
studies  were  open  and  small  and  can  only  add  some  support  to  efficacy.  In  the  studied  patient 
population,  with  moderate  to  severe  PsA,  infliximab  treatment  was  superior  in  terms  of  clinical 
meaningful  benefit  to  placebo  in  the  double-blind  placebo-controlled  first  stage  of  the  pivotal  trial. 
This  benefit  was  maintained  throughout  the  study  period,  and  also  achieved  in  the  former  placebo 
group after switching to infliximab. In addition, the benefit was confirmed by a number of secondary 
endpoints  that  add  relevant  efficacy  data  in  terms  of  more  PsA-specific  clinical  manifestations  like 
enthesiopathies  or  dactylitis.  The  magnitude  of  efficacy  of  infliximab  in  relation  to  placebo  was 
similar to  data submitted  in  other  indications and there were  no  signs  of any different  safety profile 
compared with the previously identified risks in other populations. Therefore, one pivotal study in PsA 
including a limited number of patients was considered sufficient to support efficacy.  At the request 
from the CHMP the MAH committed to submit long-term (> 1 year) efficacy and safety data.  
The definition of the patient population as initially proposed by the MAH was not fully endorsed by 
the CHMP, who recommended that infliximab should be primarily an option for patients with more 
severe disease. The claim for monotherapy was not supported sufficiently with the submitted data.  
In IMPACT, the majority of patients (71%) were treated concomitantly with other DMARDs; mainly 
MTX. The MAH provided subgroup analyses on efficacy and safety for patients given monotherapy or 
22/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DMARD treatment, but since the monotherapy subgroup was very small (n=19 in the infliximab 
group), these analyses were of limited value. The CHMP agreed the following indication “Remicade, 
in combination with methotrexate, for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in 
patients who have responded inadequately to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs”. 
Clinical Safety 
In  this  section,  a  global  overview  of  clinical  safety  data  is  presented.  Based  on  clinical  trials  and 
current  post  marketing  experience,  the  following  areas  have  gained  particular  attention:  fatalities, 
serious  infections  including  tuberculosis  (TB),  worsening  of  heart  failure  and  immunologically 
mediated phenomena such as infusion-related reactions, delayed hypersensitivity reactions, lupus-like 
syndromes,  development  of  anti-nuclear  antibodies  (ANA),  and  antibodies  to  infliximab.  Other 
important  safety  aspects  concern  the  lack  of  knowledge  about  long-term  consequences  of  Remicade 
treatment as well as whether there is an increased risk of malignancies associated with Remicade use. 
Below, the data that supported the initial approvals (predominantly from clinical trials), as well as data 
from more recent clinical trials and current post marketing safety experience (from procedures which 
have been finalised before 1 October 2004) are presented.  
Patient exposure 
For the initial approval for Crohn’s disease, data from 771 patients treated with infliximab in clinical 
studies were submitted. Of these, 199 were patients with Crohn’s disease, of whom 40 patients were 
re-administered infliximab in study T24; 555 were patients with RA. Additionally, 42 patients (healthy 
volunteers and ulcerative colitis) had been exposed to infliximab. Four hundred sixteen of all patients 
received  at  least  five  infusions  of  infliximab.  In  Crohn’s  disease  protocols,  50  %  of  the  infliximab-
treated  patients  had  a  calculated  drug  exposure  duration  of  at  least  14  weeks,  84%  received  at  least 
10 mg/kg infliximab and 51% received at least 20 mg/kg infliximab. In total 103 patients with Crohn’s 
disease had received three or more infusions.  
In  support  of  safety  for  the  first  RA  indication,  data  were  presented  from  913  patients  including 
660 patients treated for RA. In three of the six RA studies,  418  patients received concomitant MTX 
treatment. The largest set of safety data in RA, came from study C0168T22 (ATTRACT).  
During  the  initial  assessment  for Marketing Authorisation in  the  EU of  the  Crohn’s disease  and RA 
indications,  available  post  marketing  experience  was  also  presented  and  discussed.  This  experience 
comprised  approximately  11,000  patients  from  the  US  with  Crohn’s  disease  (based  upon  Centocor 
licensed  sales)  who  had  received  at  least  one  dose  of  infliximab.    Of  these,  approximately  2,500 
patients received re-infusions at intervals of up to 12 weeks.  
Since  Remicade  was  first  licensed  in  1998  to  the  end  of  February  2004,  approximately  509,193 
patients have received it worldwide. The assessment of these post-marketing data could not be broken 
down by indication, as the reports cannot be separated by diagnosis. With respect to clinical trials, the 
main  safety experience comes  from RA trials, while data in Crohn’s disease,  ankylosing spondylitis 
and psoriatic arthritis trials are more limited. 
Overall adverse events in clinical trials 
In clinical trials, adverse reactions were reported in 57 % of infliximab treated patients compared with 
36  %  of  placebo  treated  patients.  There  was  no  apparent  dose-response  relationship  for  the  overall 
incidence  of  adverse  reactions.  The  most  common  adverse  reactions  in  all  studies  were  upper 
respiratory infections (18.5% vs. 11.5 % in placebo treated patients), headache (20.6 vs.13 %), nausea 
(14.8 vs. 12.5 %), sinusitis (7.9 % vs. 2.6%), rash (8.4% vs 4.7%) and cough (8.8 % vs. 2.6%). Serious 
adverse  reactions  were  observed  in  3.6%  of  infliximab-treated  patients  and  2.6%  of  placebo-treated 
patients.  
Fatalities 
Up  to  23  February  2004,  in  total  1285  deaths  have  been  reported,  of  which  771  came  from 
23/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
spontaneous reporting, 514 came from studies or registries. The number of deaths relative to exposure 
reported  during  subsequent  periods  is  stable.  Patients  with  RA  are  the  most  commonly  reported 
deaths. Several deaths have occurred when infliximab has been given in non-approved indications, in 
particular,  graft-versus-host-disease,  congestive  heart  failure  (see  below),  and  alcoholic  hepatitis. 
Infections are by far the most common cause of death (nearly 50% of the deaths were associated with 
infection), where sepsis and localised infections, in particular, pneumonia accounted for about 40% of 
all reported deaths.   
Infections 
In the clinical trials, infections were reported almost twice as often in infliximab-treated patients as in 
placebo-treated  patients  (32%  compared  with  22%)  in  both  Crohn's  and  RA  patients.    Non-serious 
infections,  predominantly  upper  respiratory  tract  infections,  were  most  common.  Serious  infections 
were observed in 5 % of both infliximab-, and placebo treated patients and the most common serious 
infections  were  pneumonia,  cellulitis,  and  pyelonephritis.  In  the  ATTRACT  study,  patients  given 
10 mg/kg  repeatedly  had  a  tendency  of  more  infections  than  those  given  3  mg/kg.  One  RA  patient 
developed  disseminated  tuberculosis  and  another  coccidioidomycosis  beyond  the  30  week  study 
period.  More  patients  treated  with  both  steroids  and  other  immunosuppressants  together  with 
infliximab experienced serious infections compared with patients treated with infliximab only (7.7 % 
vs 0.7 %). 
In  post-marketing  spontaneous  reporting,  infections  are  the  most  common  serious  adverse  event. 
These  include  sepsis,  pneumonia,  tuberculosis,  and  opportunistic  infections  such  as  pneumocystis 
carinii pneumonia, histoplasmosis, systemic candidiasis, aspergillosis, listeriosis, CMV, coccidioides, 
cryptococcus. Some of the cases had a fatal outcome (see fatalities above). 
Given the above, Remicade is contraindicated in patients with tuberculosis or other severe infections 
such  as  sepsis,  abscesses,  and  opportunistic  infections.  Patients  must  be  monitored  closely  for 
infections  including  tuberculosis  before,  during  and  after  treatment  with  Remicade.  Because  the 
elimination of infliximab may take up to six months, monitoring should be continued throughout this 
period. Further treatment with Remicade must not be given if a patient develops a serious infection or 
sepsis.  
Tuberculosis (TB) 
Treatment with infliximab increases the risk of activation of tuberculosis. Up to December 2000, 28 
cases of active TB including miliary tuberculosis and tuberculosis with extrapulmonary location, had 
been reported in patients treated with Remicade One had a fatal outcome. In view of the seriousness of 
the  TB  reports  available  in  December  2000,  it  was  decided  to  revise  the  SPC  (sections  4.3;  4.4  and 
4.8) and PL for Remicade, through Urgent Safety Restricion on 14 December 2000. 
This  issue  was  closely  monitored;  and  up  to  31st  October  2001,  in  total  129  cases  of  active  TB  had 
been  reported  in  patients  treated  with  Remicade.  Of  these,  19  had  a  fatal  outcome.  The  majority  of 
patients had a prior history of treatment with immunosuppressants and corticosteroids. In the majority 
of patients, the onset of active TB occurred within 6 months after the first infusion of Remicade, thus 
supporting  a  possible  relationship  with  initiation  of  Remicade  therapy.    As  long-term  clinical 
experience  with  Remicade  is  still  limited,  the  onset  (or  re-activation)  of  TB  or  other  opportunistic 
infections also after a longer period of treatment cannot be ruled out. The following revised guidance 
was introduced into the SPC via an Urgent Safety Restriction procedure in January 2002.  
“Before starting treatment with Remicade, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of  tuberculosis  or  possible  previous  contact  with  tuberculosis  and  previous  and/or  current 
immunosuppressive  therapy.  Appropriate  screening  tests,  i.e.  tuberculin  skin  test  and  chest  x-ray, 
should be  performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It  is recommended that  the 
conduct  of  these  tests  is  recorded  on  the  patient’s  alert  card  that  will  be  provided  by  the  local 
representative of the MAH.  Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin test 
results  especially  in  patients  who  are  severely  ill  or  immunocompromised.  If  active  tuberculosis  is 
diagnosed, Remicade treatment must not be initiated. 
24/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If inactive (‘latent’) tuberculosis is diagnosed, prophylactic anti-tuberculosis therapy must be started 
before the initiation of Remicade, and in accordance with local recommendations. In this situation, the 
benefit/ risk balance of Remicade therapy should be very carefully considered.   
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs or symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g.,  persistent  cough,  wasting  /  weight  loss,  low-grade  fever)  appear  during  or  after  Remicade 
treatment.” 
By February 2004 a cumulative total of 532 cases of tuberculosis were received, 445 were 
spontaneous and 87 trial/registry reports. Cumulatively, there were a total of 54 reports with 
tuberculosis as the underlying cause of death. Preventive educational programs have been initiated in 
the EU and in the USA. The reporting rate is stable in most countries. Tuberculosis will continue to be 
closely monitored. National/local recommendations should be followed to optimise diagnostic efforts 
and treatment/ prophylaxis.  
Heart failure 
During  the  autumn  of  2001,  data  from  a  placebo-controlled  clinical  study  aimed  at  evaluating  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  Remicade  in  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF)  became  available.  These  data 
showed  a  higher  incidence  of  mortality  due  to  worsening  of  heart  failure  in  patients  treated  with 
Remicade,  especially  those  treated  with  the  higher  dose  of  10 mg/kg  (i.e.  twice  the  maximum 
approved  dose).  In  this  trial,  150  patients  with  NYHA  Class  III-IV  CHF  (left  ventricular  ejection 
fraction  </=35%)  were  treated  with  3 infusions  of  Remicade  5 mg/kg,  10  mg/kg,  or  placebo  over 
6 weeks. At 38 weeks, 9 of 101 patients treated with Remicade (2 at 5 mg/kg and 7 at 10 mg/kg) died 
compared to one death among the 49 patients on placebo.  
In October 2001, based on the initial data from the study, the EMEA issued a public statement to draw 
the  attention  of  Health  Care  Professionals  and  patients  to  these  findings.  When  additional  data  had 
become available from this trial, the SPC and Package Leaflet were updated, and a Patient Alert Card 
was added to the Product Information via an Urgent Safety Restriction procedure in January 2002.  
The following recommendations have been introduced in the SPC : 
“Remicade is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV). 
Remicade should be used with caution in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Patients 
should  be  closely  monitored  and  Remicade  must  not  be  continued  in  patients  who  develop  new  or 
worsening symptoms of heart failure.” 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders: 
In  clinical  studies  with  infliximab  and  during  long-term  follow-up  of  three  years,  representing 
1385 patient years, four cases of lymphoma and 10 other malignancies were detected as compared to 
one malignancy in placebo-treated patients followed up during 189 patient years. These observed rates 
and  incidences  were  similar  to  those  expected  for  the  populations  studied.  From  August  1998  to 
February  2004,  in  total  1099  cases  of  suspected  malignancies  have  been  reported,  185  in  Crohn’s 
disease patients, 759 in RA patients and 155 in patients with other diseases/ unknown indication.  
The association between lymphoma and RA has been acknowledged and there is consensus that these 
patients  have  a  two  to  three-fold  increased  risk  in  developing  a  non-Hodgkin  lymphomas.  Both 
inflammatory activity and  immunosuppressive treatment  have  been  associated  with the  development 
of this disease. However, lymphoma in Crohn's disease is rare and there is no consensus that it appears 
more  often  than  in  the  general  population.  Although  the  number  of  malignancies  with  Remicade  in 
general does not seem to be higher than published incidence data for this population, the findings of 
lymphomas in CD patients raise some concern. Considering the limited follow-up time, it is unknown 
if  exposure  to  infliximab  can  increase  the  incidence  of  these  disorders.  Moreover,  the  long-term 
immunosuppressive effects of concomitant use of methotrexate and infliximab are unknown. This has 
been reflected in the SPC section 4.8 and is under continued monitoring. 
25/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunologically mediated phenomena  
Remicade  has  been  associated  with  immunologically  mediated  phenomena  i.e.  antibodies  to 
infliximab,  anaphylactic  infusion  reactions,  delayed  hypersensitivity  (serum  sickness-like)  reactions, 
lupus-like  syndromes  and  autoantibody  formation.    In  addition,  severe  non-anaphylactic  infusion 
reactions may occur.  
Antibodies to infliximab  
For  the  initial  RA  and  CD  protocols  (excluding  the  ATTRACT),  289  patients  were  evaluable  for 
measuring  antibodies  to  infliximab.  Of  these,  80  patients  (28%)  were  positive  for  antibodies  to 
infliximab.  In  Crohn’s  disease  protocols,  13%  of  evaluable  patients  were  positive  for  antibodies  to 
infliximab  compared  with  40%  in  the  RA  protocols  (excluding  ATTRACT).  In  addition,  Crohn’s 
disease patients who were positive for antibodies to infliximab tended to have lower titres than did RA 
patients.  
A negative assay result for antibodies to infliximab does not exclude the presence of these antibodies. 
Thus,  the  impact  of  antibodies  to  infliximab  on  the  treatment  is  not  known,  and  this  factor  can  at 
present  not  be  used  to  predict  efficacy  and  safety  including  the  risk  for  infusion  related  reactions. 
Efforts are being made to develop a more specific assay for detection of antibodies to infliximab in the 
presence of infliximab.  
Various data show an association between antibodies to infliximab and diminished degree of efficacy 
and  increased  incidence  of  infusion  reactions.  Results  from  ACCENT  II  also  indicated  that 
concomitant administration with immunomodulators was associated with lower titers of ATI. 
The  MAH  has  committed  to  monitor  ATI  induction  during  ongoing  and  planned  studies,  and  will 
address in the analysis dose regimens to minimise antibody development and the relationship between  
antibody development, infusion reactions and loss of efficacy. 
Acute infusion reactions including anaphylactic reactions: 
In clinical trials, acute infusion reactions, which occurred during or within a few hours following the 
infusion,  have  been  reported  in  19  %  of  Crohn’s  disease  patients  and  RA  patients.  These  appeared 
already at the first or second infusion, but did not increase over time after the second infusion. There 
was  no  difference  between  doses  and  no  relationship  was  observed  between  the  initial  dose  of 
infliximab  and  the  likelihood  of  any  infusion-reaction.  Approximately  1-4  %  of  the  infusions  were 
accompanied  by  non-specific  symptoms  such  as  fever  or  chills,  pruritus,  urticaria  and 
cardiopulmonary reactions such as chest pain, hyper/hypotension, and dyspnoea.  
Up  to  May  2001,  106  confirmed  cases  of  anaphylactic  infusion  reactions  have  been  included  in  the 
post-marketing  database.  These  symptoms  generally  occurred  15  minutes  after  the  start  of  infusion, 
and  usually  during  the second  or third  infusion.  Experience to  date indicates  that  clinical  preventive 
measures as outlined in the SPC, such as careful monitoring of the patient during and after infusion, 
pretreatment  with  e.g.  an  antihistamine,  corticosteroid  or  paracetamol  to  reduce  mild  and  transient 
effects) reduce the occurrence of these complications. To date, no deaths have been reported.   
Suspected  risk  factors  for  anaphylactic  infusion  reactions  include  increased  time  intervals  between 
infusions,  a  diagnosis  of  Crohn’s  disease,  lack  of  concomitant  therapy  with  immunosuppressive 
therapy, and the presence of antibodies against infliximab  
In  the  clinical  trials,  patients  with  antibodies  to  infliximab  at  any  time  point  were  more  likely  to 
experience  a  reaction  to  an  infliximab  infusion  than  patients  who  were  negative  for  antibodies  to 
infliximab  throughout  the  trial  (36  %  vs.  11  %  respectively).  Thus,  the  presence  of  antibodies  to 
infliximab appears to increase the probability of an infusion reaction by a factor of 2 – 3. Furthermore, 
patients  with  antibodies  to  infliximab  developed  infusion  reactions  more  often  irrespective  of 
concomitant MTX treatment. Most reactions were mild to moderate, but a trend towards more serious 
infusion reactions could be noted. In  the ATTRACT  study,  no overall increase  in  infusion reactions 
was  observed  in  infliximab-treated  patients  whose  MTX  doses  were  reduced,  interrupted,  or 
discontinued. In study T014, it was suggested that MTX may suppress the development of antibodies 
26/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to infliximab. Thus, a possible decrease of infusion reactions may justify the rational of concomitant 
MTX treatment. 
Delayed Hypersensitivity (including Serum Sickness-Like) Reactions: 
Delayed hypersensitivity reactions, possibly due to an immune response against infliximab, appeared 
in 10/41 (25 %) Crohn’s disease patients who were re-administered infliximab after a long medicinal 
products holiday of two years or more. Nine of the ten patients who experienced these reactions had 
been treated with a liquid infliximab batch containing more protein microaggregates than the current 
lyophilised batches. It may be inferred that the liquid batches contributed to the  occurrence of these 
reactions by inducing the delayed immunological response. Similar events have not been observed in 
RA patients, but the majority of the retreatments occurred at intervals of 14 weeks or less. Very high 
titres of antibodies to infliximab were detected in some of the patients with delayed hypersensitivity 
reactions and there was a tendency of lack of response due to the neutralising effects of antibodies to 
infliximab. 
The  appearance  of  delayed  hypersensitivity  reactions  in  patients  readministered  infliximab  created 
problems  in  the  assessment  of  the  risk/benefit  balance  in  this  patient  group  with  a  life-long  chronic 
disease. Since the  delayed reactions were judged  to  be serious in  some  patients,  re-treatment after  a 
longer  drug  withdrawal  period  is  of  concern.  It  was  concluded  that  there  was  enough  experience  to 
recommend re-administration of infliximab, if the treatment interval is less than 15 weeks.  
Up to 30 June 2001, 58 serum sickness cases were reported during the post-marketing phase. Longer 
intervals between infusions with formation of antibodies to infliximab may possibly be a mechanism 
for this syndrome. These reports are consistent with the recommendations in the product information 
(SPC  sections  4.2,  4.4  and  4.8)  that  Remicade  should  not  be  readministered  to  patients  after  a 
treatment interval of greater than 14 weeks. 
Autoantibody Formation: 
In  the  RA  and  Crohn’s  disease  studies,  the  antinuclear  antibody  (ANA)  status  of  infliximab-treated 
patients  and  placebo-treated  patients  was  similar  at  baseline  (24  %  were  positive  for  ANA). 
Approximately  half  of  infliximab-treated  patients  in  clinical  studies  who  were  ANA  negative  at 
baseline  developed  a  positive  ANA  during  the  study  compared  with  approximately  one-fifth  of 
placebo-treated  patients.  Anti-dsDNA  antibodies  were  newly  detected  in  approximately  17%  of 
infliximab-treated patients compared with 0% of placebo-treated patients. Risk factors for anti-dsDNA 
conversion  include  decreasing  immunosuppressive  therapy  and  baseline  presence  of  autoantibody 
(such  as  positive  ANA).  However,  it  is  not  possible  to  predict  if  a  patient  will  develop  anti-dsDNA 
antibodies. Moreover, the consequences of development of ANA and dsDNA are unknown.  
Lupus-Like Syndromes: 
In the clinical trials, two of the 33 patients who became positive for anti-dsDNA at some point during 
follow-up, also developed clinical signs and symptoms of a lupus-like syndrome, one RA patient and 
one with Crohn’s disease. No other autoantibodies commonly associated with SLE were detected. Up 
to 30 June 2001, 72 cases with lupus like syndromes were reported to the Remicade Post-marketing 
Database.  If  a  patient  develops  symptoms  suggestive  of  a  lupus-like  syndrome  following  treatment 
with  Remicade  and  is  positive  for  antibodies  against  double-stranded  DNA,  treatment  must  be 
discontinued. 
Severe Non-Anaphylactic Infusion Reactions: 
Remicade is also associated with severe non-anaphylactic infusion reactions, i.e., clinically significant 
infusion  reactions  without  indicators  for  allergic  mediators.  These  include  myocardial  ischaemia, 
significant  arrhythmia, hypotension, and  dyspnoea not accompanied by  urticaria  and/or angioedema, 
and  any  other  serious  adverse  reaction  that  occurs  during  or  within  1  hour  following  Remicade 
infusion. 
27/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurological events 
Concerns  regarding  neurological  events  have  been  raised  because  infliximab  and  other  agents  that 
inhibit TNF alpha  have been associated with rare cases of exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or 
radiographic  evidence  of  demyelinating  disease  suggestive  of  multiple  sclerosis  or  localised 
demyelination  conditions  such  as  optic  neuritis.  Based  on  post  marketing  experience,  the  SPC  was 
updated regarding neurological events in 2001.  
Haematological events 
In clinical studies, anaemia, changes in white blood cells count and thrombocytopenia were reported 
as uncommon adverse reactions. In addition in the post-marketing phase pancytopenia was reported as 
a rare adverse reaction; this information has been added to the product information in January 2002. 
Two subjects in ASPIRE and three additional subjects in previous clinical trials were reported to have 
pulmonary emboli. Four of the subjects had underlying cardiopulmonary disease, and the fifth subject 
was  receiving  an  oral  contraceptive.  The  conclusion  of  review  of  the  postmarketing  experience  in 
PSURs  (431  cases)  was  that  thromboembolic  events  did  not  constitute  a  signal,  but  will  be  further 
monitored. The MAH has committed to study the rate of cardiolipin antibody positivity in 300 patients 
from ASPIRE and to explore differences amongst infliximab doses. 
Gastro-intestinal events 
Further  to  review  of  data  from  the  TREAT  registry,  intestinal  perforation  and  stenosis  have  been 
added  to  the  Section  on  Undesirable  effects  in  the  SPC.  Furthermore,  based  on  the  conclusions  of 
PSUR  7,  that  treatment  of  patients  with  intestinal  strictures  due  to  Crohn`s  disease  is  not 
recommended  since  the  risk/benefit  relationship  in  this  patient  population  has  not  been  established, 
this information has been included in the warnings section of the SPC.  
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Up  to  February  2004  in  total  500  reports  of  hepatobiliary  events  were  received.  Abnormal  hepatic 
function,  cholecystitis,  hepatitis  and  hepatocellular  damage  have  been  included  in  the  SPC.  Among 
cases  of  hepatic  failure,  the  majority  had  an  identified  cause  or  non-sufficient  information  and 
therefore a conclusion on the cause is difficult to make.  
Recent  data  from  clinical  studies  suggested  that  subjects  with  AS  and  PsA  may  be  more  likely  to 
develop aminotransferase elevations with infliximab treatment. After assessment of available data, the 
CHMP concluded that the risk/benefit for treatment of PsA and AS patients with infliximab remains 
positive for the following reasons. An elevated ALT has not been followed by changes in other  
parameters related to hepatic function and no increase in hepatic related adverse events was noted. The 
increase in ALT levels was mainly of low-grade (1-2 xULN). Patients with increased ALT levels >3 x 
ULN  continued  on  treatment  in  most  cases  and  values  tended  to  return  to  normal.  As  expected,  a 
tendency to a higher risk for ALT increases in those individuals, who had an increase in baseline ALT, 
was found. 
The MAH has committed to further evaluate risks for elevated LT values and hepatobiliary events in 
AS, PsA and psoriasis studies. Hepatobiliary events will continue to be monitored. 
Based on continued  monitoring and data provided within Periodic Safety Update Reports, over time 
other  undesirable  effects  such  as  interstitial  pneumonitis/  fibrosis,  vasculitis,  pericardial  effusion, 
pancreatitis have been added to the product information. 
Laboratory parameters 
During  clinical  studies,  changes  in  creatinine  and  liver  function  parameters  were  observed  in 
infliximab-treated patients. For all of these parameters, changes in individual patients were generally 
mild and transient; no general or dose-related trends were observed.  
28/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X-ray data 
The X-ray examinations during the ATTRACT, indicated that treatment with infliximab during 54 or 
102 weeks (irrespective of dose) had no deleterious effects on the cartilage.  
Vaccination 
The results submitted from a vaccine substudy in a subset of 100 patients from ASPIRE (patients with 
early RA receiving long-term infliximab therapy vaccinated with the 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine) 
did not allow the CHMP to draw clear conclusions or recommendations. The following information 
has thus been added to the SPC warnings and precautions section: 
“No data are available on the response to vaccination with live vaccines or on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving anti-TNF therapy. It is recommended 
that live vaccines not be given concurrently.”   
Ongoing and planned studies and registries 
As  an  outcome  of  the  2nd  annual  reassessment,  which  was  finalised  in  January  2002,  the  MAH  has 
regularly  submitted  data  obtained  from  European  patient  registries  in  RA  and  Crohn’s  disease  and 
from  a  registry  in  CD  patients  in  US  and  Canada.  Furthermore,  during  year  2002  educational 
programmes towards prescribers related to the monitoring of patients at risk for TB and treatment of 
patients with TB were initiated. These programs are ongoing.  
There are several ongoing studies in different indications such as pediatrics (RA, Crohn), active 
ulcerative colitis, asthma, sarcoidosis, COPD, cancer related cachexia in pancreatic cancer and 
psoriasis, and follow-up studies in early RA, CD, ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
The  quality  of  the  product  has  in  all  essential  parts  been  acceptably  documented.  Adequate 
specifications  have  been  included  to  control  that  undue  aggregation  of  infliximab  does  not  occur, 
which may impact the safety of the product. Remaining issues have been solved by commitments by 
the applicant to provide additional data on an ongoing basis or within defined time limits.  
The preclinical safety documentation is limited. However, given the restricted availability of relevant 
animal models for this type of product, the information provided is considered sufficient.  
With  regard  to  the  clinical  documentation,  it  was  concluded  that  in  patients  with  severe,  active 
Crohn’s  disease  and  with  active  fistulising  disease,  who  have  not  responded  to  conventional 
treatments, short-term efficacy of Infliximab was sufficiently documented. Long-term efficacy of re-
treatment has been shown in patients with severe, active Crohn`s disease who have responded within 
2 weeks from the first dose. In fistulising CD, long-term maintenance treatment is only recommended 
in patients responding after 3  doses. Data  from repeated administration suggest  an  acceptable safety 
profile when re-treatment is carried out within 16 weeks. Re-treatment after a longer interval cannot 
be  recommended  until  further  supporting  data  for  safety  have  been  provided  and  evaluated.  When 
considering the clear-cut and significant efficacy response in patients who have depleted all medical 
treatment  options  and  in  whom  surgical  treatment  is  only  palliative,  the  benefit/risk  balance  is 
regarded to be positive for the restricted use of Remicade as defined in the SPC. 
The  efficacy  of  infliximab  in  patients  with  active  RA,  despite  treatment  with  MTX,  has  been 
demonstrated for up to 54 weeks and there are data showing maintained efficacy for up to 102 weeks. 
Reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured by x-ray, has also been shown. 
Remicade  must  be  given  concomitantly  with  methotrexate  since  efficacy  and  safety  have  been 
demonstrated only in combination with MTX. Taken together, efficacy of infliximab for the treatment 
of  signs  and  symptoms  of  RA  in  patients  with  insufficient  response  to  MTX,  has  been  adequately 
demonstrated,  and  the  adverse  reaction  profile  is  acceptable,  while  respecting  the  revised  product 
information. In light of this, and the severity of the disease, the risk/benefit is positive for the 3 mg/kg 
q. 8 week dosage in patients with concomitant MTX treatment.  
29/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  efficacy  of  infliximab  +  MTX  compared  to  MTX  alone  has  also  been  demonstrated  in  patients 
with early, moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis.There was a general tendency towards better 
efficacy  with  the  higher  6  mg/kg  dose  of  infliximab.  However,  no  change  in  posology  was 
recommended while awaiting further data regarding dose escalation. No new safety signals could be 
identified; however further monitoring (as in already ongoing studies and registries) is important when 
introducing infliximab to patients with RA of short duration. Therefore, although reduction of the rate 
of radiographic progression and convincing benefit with regard to the functional ability of the patient 
have been shown in patients with early moderate to severe, active RA, the CHMP decided that, due to 
the safety profile of infliximab, treatment with Remicade should not be given as first line treatment to 
patients  with  mild  disease  and  with  low  risk  for  progressive  disease.  The  CHMP  considered  the 
overall benefit / risk balance positive for the indication  “patients with severe, active and progressive 
rheumatoid arthritis not previously treated with methotrexate and other DMARDs”. 
The efficacy of infliximab in improving clinical symptoms and signs of ankylosing spondylitis in the 
patient  population  with  severe  axial  symptoms,  who  have  elevated  serological  markers  of 
inflammatory activity and have reponded inadequately to conventional therapy has been demonstrated 
for up to one year.  
The efficacy of infliximab in combination with methotrexate in the treatment of patients with active, 
progressive  psoriatic  arthritis  who  have  responded  inadequately  to  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic 
drugs was demonstrated in one pivotal study (data covering 50 weeks).  
Although data on the AS and PsA population are limited, the safety profile of infliximab in AS and 
PsA was similar to that observed in patients with RA or CD. Infliximab may offer a new therapeutic 
option for adult patients with AS and PsA when the response to previous therapy has been inadequate. 
Based on the review of data on safety and efficacy and the commitments agreed to by the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder, the benefit/risk profile of Remicade in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis 
patients and psoriatic arthritis (as specified above) and used according to the recommendations in the 
product information is favourable. 
The  main  safety  concerns  with  Remicade,  which  apply  for  patients  with  Crohn’s  disease,  RA, 
ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis are: 
(cid:131)  serious infections including TB  
(cid:131)  infusion-related reactions including anaphylactic/toid reactions and if there is a possible increase 
in severity or frequency of these related to the number of infusions,  
(cid:131)  antibody development 
(cid:131)  worsening of heart failure 
(cid:131)  haematological reactions 
(cid:131)  neurological disorders 
(cid:131)  possible increased risk of malignancies 
(cid:131)  the fact that long-term consequences of Remicade treatment are unknown.  
Thus, it is highly important that the provisions stated in the SPC are strictly adhered to.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
The CHMP concluded in its July 2004 meeting that Remicade continues to have a positive benefit/risk 
balance  in  Crohn`s  disease,  Rheumatoid  arthritis,  ankylosing  spondylitis  and  psoriatic  arthritis 
provided that the latest Product Information is adhered to. 
This conclusion is based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy within 4 annual 
reassessment procedures, PSURs, variation procedures and the first 5-year renewal. 
The  marketing  authorisation  was  renewed  with  a  commitment  from  the  MAH  regarding  the 
outstanding follow-up measures and the yearly submission of PSURs. 
30/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
