European Medicines Agency 
London, 21 February 2007 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Remicade 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
infliximab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/II/107 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine IgG1κ monoclonal antibody, which binds to both soluble and 
transmembrane forms of the human tumour necrosis factor (TNF)α and inhibits the functional activity 
of TNFα.  
Remicade (infliximab) is  currently approved for the treatment of  rheumatoid arthritis (RA), Crohn’s 
disease  (CD),  ankylosing  spondylitis  (AS),  psoriatic  arthritis  (PsA),  psoriasis  and  ulcerative  colitis 
(UC). 
Ulcerative  colitis  is  a  chronic  inflammatory  bowel  disease  of  unknown  aetiology.  In  Europe,  the 
incidence  of  UC  is  estimated  at  5  to  25  per  hundred  thousand.  Although  patients  of  all  ages  can  be 
affected, UC peaks between 15 and 35 years of age.  
Ulcerative  colitis  is  characterised  by  a  uniform  and  continuous  inflammation,  without  intervening 
areas of normal mucosa. In 95% of cases, inflammation affects the rectum, and extends proximally for 
a variable distance. The inflammatory reaction involves the surface mucosa, the crypt epithelium, and 
the submucosa. The affected mucosa bleeds easily, contains ulcerated areas, and is often completely 
denuded  resulting  in  bloody  diarrhoea,  anaemia,  and  cramping  abdominal  pain.  In  severe  cases,  the 
bowel wall may become extremely thin, and inflammation may extend to the serosa with the risk of 
dilatation,  toxic  megacolon,  and  subsequent  perforation.  Toxic  megacolon  commonly  requires  an 
urgent colectomy to avoid perforation, peritonitis, and sepsis. 
Ulcerative colitis is associated with an increased risk of colorectal carcinoma. The risk of carcinoma 
increases with duration and extent of disease: for patients with UC duration of 10 years the risk is 2%; 
this risk increases to 8% and 18% with a duration of 20 and 30 years, respectively. 
Infliximab’s  initial  approval  for  induction  and  maintenance  treatment  of  patients  with  moderately  to 
severely  active  UC  (variation  II-65)  was  based  on  two  studies,  ACT  1  and  ACT  2.  In  the  present 
variation application the MAH proposed changes to sections 4.1 and 5.1 of the SPC in relation to the 
UC  indication,  based  on  new  data  from  these  studies.  The  MAH  proposed  to  add  information  in 
section  4.1,  concerning  a  claimed  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  colectomy  in  the  same  patient 
population.  The  information  presented  included  data  from  the  ACT  1  and  ACT  2  clinical  studies 
showing  a  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  colectomy  with  infliximab,  as  well  as  published  data  from 
Järnerot et al, 2005 showing a reduction in the incidence of colectomy with infliximab treatment in 
subjects with moderately or severely active UC refractory to intravenous (IV) corticosteroids. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical efficacy1 
Main studies 
ACT  1  and  ACT  2  were  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group 
studies  designed  to  examine  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  infliximab  in  subjects  with  moderately  to 
severely active UC. To enter ACT 1 or ACT 2, subjects must have had moderately to severely active 
UC as defined by a baseline Mayo score2 between 6 and 12 points, inclusive. Subjects must also have 
been ambulatory and not considered likely to undergo a colectomy within 3 months of enrollment. 
1  For  more  detailed  information  please  refer  to  the  Scientific  discussion  for  variation  II.65,  also  published  in  infliximab’s 
EPAR. 
2 The Mayo score (Schroeder et al, 1987) was developed from the criteria of Truelove and Witts (1955) for mild, moderate, 
and severe ulcerative colitis; and from the criteria of Baron et al (1964) for grading mucosal appearance. It consists of the 
following 4 subscores: 
• Stool frequency 
• Rectal bleeding 
• Findings of endoscopy 
• Physician’s global assessment 
2/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Subjects  must  also  have  had  endoscopic  evidence  of  active  colitis  as  indicated  by  an  endoscopy 
subscore of ≥ 2. In addition, subjects must have met at least 1 of the following criteria: 
•  Had current treatment with at least 1 of the following: oral corticosteroids, 6-MP, AZA or 5-
ASA compounds (ACT 2 only). 
•  Had failed to successfully taper, tolerate, or respond to oral corticosteroids within the past 18 
months. 
•  Had failed to tolerate or respond to 6-MP or AZA within the previous 5 years. 
•  Had failed to tolerate or respond to 5-ASA compounds within the previous 18 months (ACT 2 
only). 
The  two  ACT  studies  were  similar  in  design  with  subjects  randomised  1:1:1  to  receive  placebo, 
5 mg/kg,  or  10  mg/kg  at  weeks  0,  2,  and  6,  and  then  every  8  weeks  thereafter.  In  both  studies,  the 
primary  endpoint  was  clinical  response  at  week  8,  with  clinical  response,  clinical  remission,  and 
mucosal  healing  also  evaluated  at  week  30.  The  ACT  1  study  also  had  an  additional  evaluation  at 
week 54 to establish that efficacy was maintained through a full year. Induction of clinical response, 
clinical remission, and mucosal healing, and maintenance of clinical response and clinical remission 
were the primary and major secondary endpoints of both studies. 
Colectomy was included as an additional efficacy endpoint, as outlined in the original protocols, even 
though it was anticipated that the colectomy rate in the ACT study population would be relatively low 
because  the  population  to  be  enrolled  was  ambulatory.  The  results  from  ACT  1  and  ACT  2  were 
submitted to various health authorities in clinical study reports and were published by Sandborn et al 
(2005),  and  by  Rutgeerts  et  al  (2005a;  2005b).  For  the  primary  and  major  secondary  efficacy 
endpoints  examined,  in  both  ACT  1  and  ACT  2,  both  the  combined  5  mg/kg  and  the  10  mg/kg 
infliximab  treatment  regimens  as  well  as  the  individual  treatment  regimens  were  significantly  more 
effective than placebo with similar efficacy seen in both infliximab treatment groups. 
ACT 1 and ACT 2 study extensions 
In  October  2003,  the  protocols  for  the  ACT  studies  were  amended  to  include  a  study  extension  to 
allow subjects the option of continuing therapy beyond the end of the study as specified in the original 
study  design.  Subjects  who  completed  treatment  through  week  46  in  ACT  1  or  through  week  22  in 
ACT  2  (with  follow-up  through  week  54  and  week  30,  respectively),  who,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
investigator, might have benefited from continued treatment, were eligible for enrollment in the study 
extension for up to 3 years. 
Subjects in the study extensions continued to receive the randomised treatment they received during 
the main portion of the study until the study sites were unblinded. In the study extensions, all subjects, 
investigators,  and  coordinators  were  blinded  to  subject  treatment  status  until  the  last  subject  had 
completed their 54 week follow-up (week 54 in ACT 1 and week E-24 in ACT 2). Once unblinding 
occurred, subjects receiving placebo were to be terminated from the study, per protocol, and subjects 
in the 10 mg/kg group were allowed to decrease their dose to 5 mg/kg. If a subject receiving 5 mg/kg 
(either  randomised  to  5  mg/kg  or  decreased  from  10  mg/kg)  lost  response,  the  dose  of  subsequent 
infusions could be increased to 10 mg/kg. Only a single dose increase was permitted.  
RESULTS UC 
RESULTS UC was an observational study, designed to collect long-term safety information on death, 
serious infections, new  malignancies (including colorectal  cancer), and new autoimmune diseases in 
subjects previously enrolled in ACT 1 or ACT 2. All subjects who received study agent in either of the 
ACT studies were eligible to participate in RESULTS UC after completing or withdrawing from the 
main portions of the studies or the extensions. No study agent was administered in RESULTS UC, but 
subjects  were  allowed  to  take  commercial  medications  including  infliximab.  Following  enrollment 
into RESULTS UC, investigators were to complete a safety questionnaire at 6 months and at 1 year 
Each subscore was rated on a scale from 0 to 3, indicating normal to severe activity. The Mayo score was calculated as the 
sum  of  the  4  subscores  and  thus  ranged  from  0  to  12.  The  partial  Mayo  score  is  the  Mayo  score  without  the  endoscopy 
subscore and ranged from 0 to 9. 
3/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                      
following the subject’s last safety visit in an ACT study; investigators were also to complete a safety 
questionnaire  annually  for  5  years.  Initially,  RESULTS  UC  did  not  make  any  provision  for  the 
collection of colectomy data, but was subsequently amended to inquire about colectomy. 
ACT Combined colectomy analysis 
ACT 1 and ACT 2 were both designed to examine the effect of infliximab on the safety and efficacy in 
subjects  with  moderately  to  severely  active  UC.  Induction  of  clinical  response,  clinical  remission, 
mucosal  healing,  and  maintenance  of  clinical  response  and  clinical  remission  were  the  primary  and 
major secondary endpoints of both studies. In the original protocols, colectomies through week 54 in 
ACT  1  and  through  week  30  in  ACT  2  were  to  be  summarised  and  compared  between  treatment 
groups within each study, and no pooled analysis of the data from ACT 1 and ACT 2 was planned. 
In 2003, when it was noted during SAE monitoring, that some subjects were discontinuing ACT 1 and 
ACT  2  and  having  colectomies  that  were  not  being  captured  in  the  study  databases,  the  MAH 
reassessed  the  way  data  were  being  collected.  In  addition,  the  higher  than  expected  incidence  of 
colectomy lead to a revision of the planned colectomy analysis, as shown below:  
•  Collect  data  on  the  colectomy  status  through  54  weeks  after  their  initial  infusion  for  all 
subjects who participated in either ACT 1 or ACT 2. 
•  Replace the individual colectomy analyses within each study with a single ITT (intent-to-treat) 
analysis  of  the  combined  incidence  of  colectomy  from  both  ACT  1  and  ACT  2  through  54 
weeks  after  each  subject’s  first  study  infusion  referred  to  subsequently  as  the  combined 
colectomy analysis. 
Järnerot Study 
The  Järnerot  study  (C0168Y06)  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
parallel-group  investigator  initiated  study  specifically  designed  to  evaluate  the  treatment  benefit  of 
infliximab in addition to conventional corticosteroid therapy for subjects with moderate to severe UC 
that was unresponsive to treatment with IV corticosteroids (Järnerot et al, 2005). 
Subjects (18 to 75 years in age) who were hospitalised with a severe or moderately severe flare-up of 
UC were potential candidates for enrollment if they were not responsive to IV corticosteroids within 
4 to 8 days after initiation of the treatment. This was determined using the fulminant colitis index at 
day 3 which would allow entry of a severely active population with a high likelihood of an imminent 
colectomy, or was determined by the Seo index3 at days 5 to 7 which allowed access of subjects with 
persistently active UC. Subjects were randomised to receive either a single dose of 5 mg/kg infliximab 
or placebo. The study was analysed as an ITT analysis. The primary endpoint was the proportion of 
subjects  who  had  en  event  (colectomy  or  death)  during  the  3 months  following  study  drug 
administration. Additionally, subjects were followed up to 1 year. 
The study was designed to enroll a total of 150 subjects to achieve a statistical power of 80% with a 
significance  level  of  0.05,  assuming  that  60%  of  placebo-treated  subjects  and  35%  of  infliximab-
treated  subjects  would  have  a  colectomy  within  3  months.  However,  due  to  slow  enrollment,  an 
interim  analysis  was  performed  after  45  subjects  had  completed  treatment  in  the  study;  24  subjects 
were  randomised  to  the  infliximab  treatment  group  and  21  subjects  randomised  to  the  placebo 
treatment group. Because of the significant reduction in the incidence of colectomy in subjects treated 
with infliximab, the study was stopped since it was considered unethical to continue. 
To  examine  and  confirm  the  results  of  this  study,  the  MAH  arranged  for  and  supervised  the 
recollection  and  creation  of  a  source-verified  database  for  analysis.  During  development  of  this 
database, the accuracy of key data elements for the colectomy analysis was also evaluated. Since the 
3 The Seo index is used to measure disease severity. Seo index scores are defined as follows: 
• Seo index > 220 = severe UC 
• Seo index ≥ 150 to ≤ 220 = moderately severe UC 
• Seo index < 150 = mild UC 
• Seo index < 120 = Patient Defined Remission (Higgins et al, 2005). 
4/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
initial consent form signed by all participants in the study only noted that data could be reviewed by 
the study group and regulatory representatives, and did not specifically discuss review of the data by 
third parties, the MAH elected to reconsent all subjects for the recollection and reanalysis of the data. 
Of the initial 45 participants, 44 agreed to this data collection. 
Results 
Data on the impact of infliximab on colectomy in two distinct populations were presented: ambulatory 
subjects in the ACT trials with active UC, who were treated with a 3 dose induction therapy (5 mg/kg 
or  10  mg/kg)  followed  by  maintenance  therapy;  and  hospitalised  subjects  in  the  Järnerot  study  with 
active  UC  unresponsive  to  IV  corticosteroids  treated  with  single  dose  (5  mg/kg)  induction  therapy. 
The  data  presented  are  the  time  to  first  colectomy,  and  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  underwent  a 
colectomy. 
Demographic characteristics 
The following table presents an overview of baseline demographics in ACT studies and the Järnerot 
study.  Although  different  populations  were  included,  the  CHMP  noted  that  there  were  no  major 
differences in the demographic characteristics in the different studies. 
Summary of demographics at baseline; randomised subjects in the combined ACT colectomy 
analysis and in the Järnerot study 
Randomised subjects 
ACT 1 and ACT 2   
728 
C0168Y06 
44* 
Sex 
  N 
     Male 
     Female 
Age (yrs) 
  N 
     Mean ± SD   
     Median 
     IQ range 
     Range 
Weight (kg) 
  N 
     Mean±SD 
     Median 
     IQ range 
     Range 
728 
437 (60.0%) 
291 (40.0%) 
728 
 40.9±13.78 
            39.5 
(30.0, 51.0) 
(18, 82)  
728 
77.9±17.86 
           76.0 
(65.0, 88.6) 
(40, 177) 
44 
23 (52.3%) 
21 (47.7%) 
44 
37.3±12.02 
           38.0 
(28.0, 43.0) 
      (18, 61) 
 39 
         68.52±13.724 
         68.50 
         (59.30, 76.30) 
           (46.2, 113.2) 
Nicotine use 
   N 
      Non-smoker  
      Smoker  
*Randomised subjects who reconsented 
**Current smoker: The remaining subjects stopped smoking prior to study entry. 
728 
382 (52.5%) 
32 (4.4%)** 
44 
42 (95.5%) 
    2 (4.5%) 
5/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACT combined colectomy analysis 
The  cumulative  incidence  of  colectomy  was  assessed  through  the  analysis  of  the  time  to  the  first 
partial  or  total  colectomy.  Cumulative  incidence  of  colectomy  through  54  weeks  was  16.5%  and 
10.1%  for  placebo  and  combined  infliximab  treatment  groups,  respectively.  The  comparison  was 
statistically  significant  with  p  =  0.015  in  favour  of  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group.  In  the 
placebo group 36 out of 244 (14.7%) patients had a colectomy; compared with 28 out of 242 (11.6%, 
non-significant) patients treated with 5 mg/kg infliximab and 18 out of 242 (7.4%; p=0.011) patients 
treated with 10 mg/kg infliximab. 
Subjects treated with either 5 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg infliximab had a lower risk of undergoing colectomy 
than  those  treated  with  placebo,  with  the  risk  of  colectomy  29%  lower  in  the  5  mg/kg  infliximab 
treatment  group  and  53%  lower  in  the  10  mg/kg  infliximab  treatment  group  than  in  the  placebo 
treatment group (p = 0.166 and p = 0.007, respectively). 
For the separate studies, there was a significant reduction in the risk of undergoing colectomy between 
the  combined  infliximab  and  placebo  treatment  groups  in  ACT  2  with  a  hazard  ratio  of 
0.41 (p = 0.002), while no difference, was observed within ACT 1.  
The CHMP  noted that the  magnitude of the infliximab treatment effect in reducing the incidence of 
colectomy varied by dose, and was quite small for the approved dose, 5 mg/kg. Both the 5 mg/kg and 
the  10  mg/kg  infliximab  treatment  groups  had  a  lower  incidence  of  colectomy  than  the  placebo 
treatment group, but only the 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment group reached statistical significance of 
p < 0.05. A similar result was seen in the analysis of the proportion of subjects with colectomy through 
54 weeks.  
Analyses in patients with different disease severity were provided for placebo and infliximab 5 mg/kg. 
A statistical significance at the 0.05 level was not achieved for these subgroup analyses, however the 
proportion  of  subjects  with  a  colectomy  was  greater  in  the  placebo  group  than  in  the  5  mg/kg 
infliximab  group  in  both  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  more  severe  disease  and  the  subgroup  of 
patients with less severe disease; greater treatment effects were observed in patients with more severe 
disease  compared  to  those  with  less  severe  disease.  The  small  sample  size  in  each  of  the  subgroups 
restricted the interpretation of these findings. 
UC-related hospitalisations; surgeries and procedures used to treat UC  
Subjects in both the 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment groups had significantly fewer UC-
related  hospitalisations  than  subjects  in  the  placebo  treatment  group  (p  =  0.019  and  0.007, 
respectively).  
In  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  subjects  had  fewer  UC-related  hospitalisations  than 
subjects  in  the  placebo  treatment  group  (p  =  0.003).  When  expressed  as  hospitalisations  per 
100 subject-years,  subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  had  20  hospitalisations 
compared with 40 in the placebo treatment group. 
Subjects  in  the  5  mg/kg  infliximab  treatment  group  had  fewer  UC-related  surgeries  and  procedures 
than subjects in the placebo treatment group (p=0.145). Subjects in the 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment 
group  had  significantly  fewer  UC-related  surgeries  and  procedures  than  subjects  in  the  placebo 
treatment group (p=0.022).  
In the combined infliximab treatment group subjects had fewer UC-related surgeries and procedures 
than subjects in the placebo treatment group (p = 0.026). When expressed as events per 100 subject 
years,  subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  had  fewer  UC-related  surgeries  and 
procedures (20.5) when compared with subjects in the placebo treatment group (34.1). 
Järnerot study 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects who had an event (colectomy or death) during the 
3 months following study drug administration. Subjects were followed up to 1 year. Two datasets were 
used  for  analyses.  The  database  used  for  the  published  analysis  was  compiled  from  summary 
information obtained from records of 45 subjects randomised in the initial study (Järnerot et al, 2005). 
The Sponsor’s database consisted of subject-level data from the 44 treated subjects in the published 
analysis who consented to have their data recollected.  
6/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No subject died during the study. A significantly lower proportion of subjects in the infliximab group 
(29.2%)  had  a  colectomy  within  3  months  postinfusion  compared  with  that  observed  in  the  placebo 
group (66.7%; p = 0.017; odds ratio: 0.206, 95% CI: 0.058 to 0.729). The odds of a colectomy being 
performed  within  3  months  following  a  single  infusion  of  5  mg/kg  infliximab  were  approximately 
80%  lower  than  that  observed  following  placebo  infusion.  In  a  secondary  analysis,  the  time  to 
colectomy was significantly longer in subjects treated with infliximab compared with placebo (hazard 
ratio  =  0.3;  p  =  0.007),  with  half  of  the  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  undergoing  a  colectomy  by 
day 10,  and  fewer  than  50%  of  those  treated  with  infliximab  undergoing  colectomy  by  3  months 
postinfusion. These results were similar between the first analyses and subjects that reconsented. 
Persistence of Efficacy and/or Tolerance Effects 
There  was  no  apparent  rebound  effect  on  the  incidence  of  colectomies  either  in  the  ACT  combined 
colectomy analysis beyond 54 weeks after first infusion of study agent or in the Järnerot study through 
1  year.  In  the  ACT  combined  colectomy  analysis,  a  total  of  40  subjects  (17  in  placebo;  9  in  the 
5 mg/kg infliximab treatment group; 14 in the 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment group) had a colectomy 
beyond 54 weeks after first infusion. All but 6 colectomies were reported from RESULTS UC. In the 
Järnerot study at the 1 year postinfusion visit, 14 (70%) of the 20 subjects in the placebo group and 
10 (41.7%) of the 24 subjects in the infliximab group had a colectomy. One additional subject in the 
placebo group had a colectomy after the 1 year visit. 
The  differences  in  follow-up  between  the  infliximab  and  placebo  treatment  groups,  and  the  lack  of 
controls  on  the  use  of  concomitant  medications  limit  conclusions.  The  CHMP  noted  that  the  trend 
towards  a  greater  proportion  of  subjects  with  colectomies  in  the  placebo  group  than  with  the  two 
infliximab groups is consistent with the data through week 54 and that these data support that there is 
no rebound effect on colectomy in patients treated with infliximab. This observation is supported by 
the data from the Järnerot study although information on the use of infliximab as rescue therapy was 
not collected during follow-up evaluations and is therefore not available.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy: 
One important goal in the treatment of UC is to prevent colectomy. The data presented showed that 
treatment with infliximab reduces the need for colectomy.  
However, the ACT studies were made in a patient population with moderate to severe disease, where 
the  risk  for  colectomy  is  considered  relatively  low  with  only  about  half  of  the  patients  treated  with 
steroids at baseline. The effect on the colectomy incidence with the approved dose (5 mg/kg) was not 
statistically  significant.  When  subgroup  analyses  were  performed  according  to  disease  severity,  it 
appeared that subjects with more severe disease may have had a greater treatment effect that subjects 
with a less severe disease. However the sample size was considered too small to allow interpretation.  
The  Järnerot  study  included  patients  who  had  severe  or  fulminant  disease  not  responding  to 
IV corticosteroids, which is a population with high risk for colectomy. The difference in populations 
compared  to  the  ACT  studies  might  explain  why  the  data  from  the  Järnerot  study  was  stronger 
although based on fewer patients. There were no indications that there is a risk, on longer term, for a 
rebound effect with more colectomies after a single dose of infliximab although data are lacking if any 
patients in the Järnerot study was treated with commercial infliximab after the study dose; these data 
were not collected during the post follow-up evaluations.  
The CHMP agreed to include data on colectomy outcome and the Järnerot study results in the product 
information.  Additionally,  the  inclusion  of  information  regarding  the  impact  in  the  number  of 
hospitalisations and surgeries was agreed.  
However, the CHMP did not consider it acceptable to add reduction of the incidence of colectomy as 
an  indication.  This  outcome  is  mainly  the  goal  of  treatment  of  UC  and  not  an  indication,  and  in 
addition,  the  results  from  the  ACT  studies  do  not  show  sufficiently  convincing  effects  with  the 
approved dose 5 mg/kg. 
7/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
Based  on  the  mechanism  of  action  of  infliximab  and  on  previous  experience  with  infliximab  both 
within  and  outside  clinical  trials,  the  adverse  events  (AEs)  of  special  interest  that  may  occur  in 
infliximab-treated  patients  include:  infections  (including  tuberculosis  (TB)  and  opportunistic 
infections), 
infusion  reactions,  delayed  hypersensitivity  reactions,  malignancies,  autoimmune 
disorders,  neurologic  or  demyelinating  events,  haematologic  events,  hepatotoxicity,  and  congestive 
heart failure. 
Common adverse events 
ACT 1 and ACT 2 
As previously reported in the 54-week summary of clinical safety (SCS), the types and frequencies of 
AEs occurring among subjects in ACT 1 and ACT 2 were consistent with those already described in 
the  current  infliximab  prescribing  information.  The  proportion  of  subjects  with  at  least  1  AE  was 
slightly higher in the combined infliximab-treated group (86%) compared with the placebo treatment 
group (80%) with a longer average follow-up in the infliximab group (41 weeks) compared with the 
placebo group (32 weeks). No notable differences were observed between the 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg 
infliximab  treatment  groups  in  the  proportions  of  AEs  (86%  and  86%,  respectively).  The  most 
frequently  occurring  AEs  (≥  15%  of  infliximab  subjects)  were  headache  (19%  and  18%),  upper 
respiratory tract infection (18% and 18%), and worsening of UC (16% and 25%) in the infliximab and 
placebo groups, respectively. Of note, 10 (2.1%) subjects in the combined infliximab treatment group 
had pneumonia, but none in the placebo group. 
Järnerot study 
In the 3-month postinfusion period, a similar proportion of subjects had AEs in the 5 mg/kg infliximab 
(83.3%) and placebo (75.0%) groups, despite a longer average duration of follow-up among subjects 
in  the  infliximab  group  (10.2  weeks)  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (5.2  weeks).  Note  that,  per 
protocol,  subjects  who  had  a  colectomy  were  discontinued  from  the  study.  Overall,  no  clinically 
notable  differences  were  observed  between  treatment  groups  when  AEs  were  examined  by  system-
organ class or preferred term. Similar results were observed through 1 year. 
Through 3 months post-infusion, the most frequent system-organ classes for which AEs were observed 
in  the  5  mg/kg  infliximab  group  (note  that  proportions  shown  in  parentheses  are  for  the  5  mg/kg 
infliximab  and  placebo  groups,  respectively)  were  resistance  mechanism  disorders  (6  [25.0%]  and  6 
[30.0%]) and skin and appendage disorders (6 [25.0%] and 3 [15.0%]). The most commonly occurring 
AE was oral moniliasis (3 [12.5%] and 0.0%). 
Through 1-year postinfusion, a similar number and proportion of subjects in the 5 mg/kg infliximab 
group (20 [83.3%] subjects) and the placebo group (17 [85.0%] subjects) had 1 or more AEs, despite a 
longer average duration of follow-up in the infliximab group (31.7 weeks) compared with the placebo 
group  (18.7 weeks).  No  clinically  notable  trends  were  observed between the  placebo and infliximab 
groups in the incidence or types of AEs occurring through 1 year postinfusion. 
Deaths 
Of the 728 subjects who participated in either ACT 1 or ACT 2, 6 subjects died. None of the deaths 
occurred  within  54  weeks  of  the  first  study  infusion.  One  of  these  subjects  was  diagnosed  with 
pulmonary histoplasmosis 1 week after the third infusion of the study extension (5 mg/kg group) and 
died of renal failure and other complications from pulmonary histoplasmosis. The CHMP considered 
that  this  infection  was  likely  related  to  treatment.  During  the  Järnerot  study,  no  deaths  occurred  in 
either treatment group through 1 year. 
8/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious Adverse Events 
ACT 1 and ACT 2 
As  previously  reported  in  the  54-week  SCS,  a  smaller  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  combined 
infliximab  treatment  group  than  in  the  placebo  treatment  group  had  a  serious  adverse  event  (SAE) 
(18.4%  versus  23.4%,  respectively)  and  the  most  frequently  occurring  SAE  was  worsening  of  UC, 
which was reported in 40 (8.3%) subjects in the combined infliximab treatment group and 30 (12.3%) 
subjects in the placebo treatment group. Pneumonia was reported as an SAE in 5 (1.0%) subjects in 
the combined infliximab treatment group and in no subjects in the placebo treatment group. Among 
the 37 subjects whose retrospective data through 54 weeks were available, 12 subjects (6 placebo and 
6 infliximab) had an SAE of worsening of UC or lack of improvement of UC. 
Beyond 54 weeks after the first infusion in ACT 1 and ACT 2, the types of SAEs that occurred were 
consistent with the data through 54 weeks of treatment. SAEs occurred in 11 (5.0%) subjects in the 
infliximab treatment group and 5 (8.6%) subjects in the placebo group. 
Järnerot Study 
Within 3 months postinfusion, 1 (4.2%) subject in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group had SAEs of fever, 
infection,  and  pulmonary  infiltration.  In  the  placebo  group,  3  (15.0%)  subjects  had  SAEs,  including 
1 subject each with abscess, wound infection, and hepatotoxic effect. 
From 3 months postinfusion through 1 year, 3 additional subjects in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group had 
SAEs. All 3 subjects had SAEs of flare of UC, 1 of whom also had an SAE of anaemia. In the placebo 
group, 2 additional subjects had SAEs after the 3-month visit, including 1 subject with flare of UC and 
1 subject with atrioventricular block. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  higher  incidence  of  SAE  in  the  placebo  groups  appears  driven  by  more 
UC-related events, than in the infliximab group.  
AEs Leading to discontinuation of study agent 
As  previously  reported  in  the  54-week  SCS  for  ACT  1  and  2,  34  (7.0%)  subjects  in  the  combined 
infliximab  treatment  group  discontinued  study  infusions  due  to  an  AE  compared  with  23  (9.4%) 
subjects  in  the  placebo  treatment  group.  The  most  frequent  AE  leading  to  discontinuation  of  study 
infusions  in  both  treatment  groups  was  worsening  of  UC,  occurring  in  10  (2.1%)  subjects  in  the 
combined infliximab treatment group and 16 (6.6%) subjects in the placebo treatment group. During 
the Järnerot study, no subject discontinued from the study due to an AE. 
Malignancies 
Four  malignancies  were  reported  in  the  54-week  period  in  ACT  studies.  These  included:  a  prostatic 
adenocarcinoma (5 mg/kg); a rectal adenocarcinoma (5 mg/kg); and 2 basal cell carcinomas 1 placebo 
and one subject in the 10 mg/kg group. Beyond 54 weeks after the first infusion in ACT 1 and ACT 2 
through  the  database  lock,  no  malignancies  were  reported.  Neoplasms  were  reported  in  2  subjects 
(breast neoplasm benign and a lipoma), neither of these neoplasms was malignant. After the database 
lock, the Sponsor became aware of 3 subjects with malignancies. 
In  the  RESULTS  UC  study,  4  subjects  who  had  previously  received  infliximab  had  malignancies 
during  long-term  follow-up.  Nonmelanoma  skin  cancers  occurred  in  3  subjects,  and  1  subject  was 
diagnosed with prostate cancer. No malignancies were observed in the placebo treatment group. 
An  additional  malignancy  was  identified  during  review  of  the  pathology  reports  for  the  colectomy 
narratives  in  a  subject  previously  treated  with  5  mg/kg  infliximab,  who  had  an  incidental 
adenocarcinoma limited to the mucosa, which was identified in a bowel specimen obtained during his 
colectomy surgery. This event was not reported as an SAE. 
No malignancies were reported through 1 year postinfusion in the Järnerot study. 
9/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
Any Infection 
As  reported  in  the  54-week  SCS,  more  subjects  in  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group  had 
infections  than  in  the  placebo  treatment  group  (40.1%  and  32.8%,  respectively).  Infections  occurred 
more frequently in the 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment group than in the 5 mg/kg infliximab treatment 
group  (41.3%  versus  38.8%,  respectively).  Upper  respiratory  tract  infection  was  the  most  common 
infection  in  both  the  combined  infliximab  and  placebo  treatment  groups  (11.6%  and  11.9%, 
respectively). Of note, pneumonia occurred in 9 (1.9%) subjects in the combined infliximab treatment 
group and in no subjects in the placebo treatment group. One additional case of pneumonia (5 mg/kg 
infliximab  treatment  group  in  ACT  1)  occurred,  but  was  not  reported  by  the  investigator  as  an 
infection. 
As reported in the 54-week SCS, TB was reported in 1 subject in the 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment 
group  in  ACT  1.  This  subject  had  both  a  negative  purified  protein  derivative  (PPD)  skin  test  and 
negative chest radiograph at screening. Study infusions were discontinued.  
Beyond  54  weeks  after  the  first  infusion  in  ACT  1  and  ACT  2,  infection  occurred  in  50  (22.5%) 
subjects in the infliximab group and 16 (27.6%) subjects in the placebo group 
In  the  Järnerot  study,  through  3  months  postinfusion,  there  were  no  clinically  notable  differences 
between treatment groups in the incidence or type of infections reported. Nine subjects (37.5%) in the 
5 mg/kg infliximab group and 6 subjects (30.0%) in the placebo group had 1 or more infections. The 
only  infection  that  occurred  in  more  than  1  subject  in  the  5  mg/kg  infliximab  group  was  oral 
moniliasis (3 [12.5%] subjects in the infliximab group and 0 subjects in the placebo group). Through 
1 year postinfusion, 9 subjects (37.5%) in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group and 7 subjects (35.0%) in the 
placebo group had 1 or more infections. 
Serious Infections 
As  reported  in  the  54-week  SCS  for  the  ACT  studies,  serious  infections  occurred  slightly  more 
frequently in the combined infliximab treatment group (19 [3.9%]) than in the placebo treatment group 
(6  [2.5%]).  A  higher  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  10  mg/kg  infliximab  treatment  group  had  serious 
infections  compared  with  the  5  mg/kg  infliximab  treatment  group  (12  [5.0%]  and  7  [2.9%], 
respectively). The most frequent serious infections among infliximab-treated subjects were pneumonia 
(2 subjects in the 5 mg/kg group and 3 subjects in the 10 mg/kg group), abscess (3 subjects in the 10 
mg/kg  group),  and  gastroenteritis  (2  subjects  in  the  5  mg/kg  group  and  1  subject  in  the  10  mg/kg 
group).  
In  the  RESULTS  UC  study,  7  subjects  had  serious  infections  during  long-term  follow-up  through  1 
year;  1  subject  (previously  treated  with  placebo)  had  received  commercial  infliximab.  Of  these  7 
subjects,  3  subjects  had  previously  received  infliximab  and  4  subjects  had  previously  received 
placebo. 
In the Järnerot study, through 3 months postinfusion, 1 subject (4.2%) in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group 
had a serious infection, recorded as infection, fever, and pulmonary infiltration. In the placebo group, 
2 subjects (10%) had a serious infection, including 1 with abscess and 1 with wound infection. 
Infusion Reactions 
In  the  ACT  studies,  the  proportion  of  infusions  that  led  to  infusion  reactions  was  similar  in  the 
combined  infliximab  and  placebo  treatment  groups  (2.9%  and  2.5%,  respectively;  however,  the 
proportion of subjects who had an infusion reaction was greater in the combined infliximab treatment 
group  than  in  the  placebo  treatment  group  (13.4%  versus  9.4%,  respectively).  This  difference  was 
largely  due  to  the  greater  percentage  of  subjects  with  infusion  reactions  in  the  10  mg/kg  infliximab 
treatment group compared with the 5 mg/kg infliximab treatment group (16.1% versus 10.7%). 
Infusion  reactions  beyond  54  weeks  occurred  in  17  (7.7%)  subjects  in  the  infliximab  group.  No 
placebo  infusions  resulted  in  an  infusion  reaction.  The  most  common  infusion  reactions  were  chest 
pain, flushing, infusion syndrome, pruritus, and rash, which each occurred in 3 (1.4%) subjects. 
10/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  Järnerot  study,  no  subject  was  identified  as  having  an  infusion  reaction  according  to  the 
definition noted. However, on review of individual subject data in the Järnerot study, 3 subjects in the 
5  mg/kg  infliximab  group  had  an  AE  on  the  day  of  their  infusion  that  was  considered  an  infusion 
reaction by the Sponsor. 
Possible anaphylactic or delayed hypersensitivity reactions 
In the ACT studies, no possible anaphylactic reactions occurred among subjects in either the placebo 
or  the  combined  infliximab  treatment  group.  Similar  proportions  of  subjects  in  the  combined 
infliximab  and  placebo  treatment  groups  had  1  or  more  possible  delayed  hypersensitivity  (serum 
sickness like) reactions (0.6% and 0.8%, respectively). No possible anaphylactic reactions or delayed 
hypersensitivity  reactions  occurred  among  subjects  in  either  the  placebo  or  the  combined  infliximab 
treatment group beyond 54 weeks after the first infusion. 
In  the  RESULTS  UC  study,  2  (1.2%)  subjects  who  were  in  the  infliximab  treatment  group  and  4 
(3.4%)  subjects  who  were  in  the  placebo  treatment  group  received  commercial  Remicade  and  had 
possible delayed hypersensitivity reactions. 
No subjects reported an AE of anaphylactic reaction in the Järnerot study. 
Dysplasia 
Through 54 weeks of follow-up in the ACT 1 and ACT 2 studies, 1 subject (5 mg/kg infliximab) was 
reported to have developed dysplasia. In the study extensions beyond 54 weeks after the first infusion, 
no subject was reported to have developed dysplasia. 
In the RESULTS UC study, 77 (27%) subjects were identified at screening during the main studies to 
be at high risk for dysplasia. Thirty-three of these 77 subjects had a colonoscopy with biopsy, and 28 
subjects  had  biopsy  results  indicating  no  dysplasia.  Two  subjects  (1  subject  who  had  previously 
received placebo and 1 subject who had previously received infliximab) had biopsy results indicating 
dysplasia.  One  subject  who  had  previously  received  placebo  was  inconclusive  due  to  inflammation. 
Additionally,  the  status  of  2  subjects  was  unknown.  No  malignancies  have  been  reported  for  these 
subjects. 
Data  concerning  dysplasia  was  not  collected  in  the  Järnerot  study.  Per  protocol,  the  signs  and 
symptoms of UC were not to be reported as an AE unless there was reasonable cause to believe that 
the  event  was  caused  by  study  medication,  that  the  event  met  the  criteria  for  serious,  and/or  the 
symptom was inconsistent with the natural history of the disease in the judgment of the investigator. 
Discussion on clinical safety  
The safety profile presented in this variation application was consistent with the known safety profile 
for  infliximab  with  the  well  known  increased  risk  for  infection  and  in  particularly,  opportunistic 
infections. There were no evident signals of increased incidence of adverse events in patients receiving 
a  three  dose  induction  and  8  weekly  administration  of  infliximab.  The  clear  signal  of  increased 
incidence of pneumonia and interstitial lung disease was already reflected in the product information 
through  another  type  II  variation  (II/108).  A  potentially  increased  risk  for  malignancy  remains  a 
concern. Therefore, from a safety point of view the proposed the change to the UC indication is not 
accepted but should be reflected in the product information. 
Risk management plan 
The MAH argued that there was no need for a risk  management  plan (RMP) to be provided for the 
current variation application. The CHMP agreed with this approach.  
11/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes to product information 
The MAH proposed to add information to sections 4.1 and 5.1 of the SPC, regarding reduction of the 
incidence of colectomy in UC. The CHMP did not consider it acceptable to add this as an indication, 
as  it  reflects  an  outcome  of  treatment  of  UC.  However,  the  inclusion  of  information  regarding 
colectomies, hospitalisations and surgical procedures in section 5.1 was agreed. Information from the 
ACT 1, ACT 2 and Järnerot studies was included. The MAH took the opportunity to update the ATC 
code in accordance with the WHO ATC/DDD alterations.  
Benefit risk assessment 
Infliximab is currently approved for treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active UC 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-MP or 
AZA, or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. The approvals for 
treatment of adult UC were based primarily on data from two multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled  studies,  ACT  1  and  ACT  2.  In  the  present  variation  application  submission,  the 
MAH proposed to add information to sections 4.1 and 5.1 of the SPC. 
Benefit 
The  MAH  applied  to  change  the  current  UC  indication  to  reflect  the  reduction  of  the  incidence  of 
colectomy  in  this  patient  population.  The  CHMP  did  not  consider  it  acceptable  to  add  this  as  an 
indication, as it reflects an outcome of treatment of UC and not an indication. In addition, the results 
from the ACT studies did show sufficiently convincing effects with the approved dose 5 mg/kg.  
The  data  from  the  Järnerot  study  was  considered  stronger  although  based  on  fewer  patients.  There 
were  no  indications  that  there  is  a  risk,  on  longer  term,  for  a  rebound  effect  with  more  colectomies 
after a single dose of infliximab. Data on the use of commercial infliximab after the study dose were 
not collected.  
Regarding  hospitalisations  and  surgical  procedures,  the  data  indicates  that  treatment  with  infliximab 
decreases the number of these events.   
The  CHMP  considered  that  it  would  be  relevant  for  the  prescriber  to  include  data  on  colectomy, 
hospitalisations and surgical procedures outcome in section 5.1 of the SPC.  
Risk  
The safety profile seen through 54 weeks in the combined ACT population was similar to that seen in 
other  indications  and  is  consistent  with  the  current  infliximab  prescribing  information.  The  safety 
findings  are  notable  in  the  overall  similarity  between  the  placebo  and  the  combined  infliximab 
treatment  groups.  Pneumonia  and  elevated  transaminases,  which  occurred  with  greater  frequency  in 
the infliximab treatment groups than the placebo treatment group, are already outlined in the current 
prescribing information.  
The  predictable  occurrence  of  infections  such  as  herpes  zoster,  pulmonary  TB,  and  a  single  case  of 
fatal histoplasmosis in the ACT 2 study extension, emphasize the importance, that both patients and 
physicians be aware of the risk of opportunistic infections. Furthermore,  a potentially increased risk 
for malignancy remains a concern.  
No notable differences were observed between the 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment groups 
in the proportions of AEs (86.0% and 86.4%, respectively).  
There  were  no  evident  signals  of  increased  incidence  of  adverse  events  in  patients  receiving  a  three 
dose  induction  and  8  weekly  administration  of  infliximab.  The  product  information  was  already 
approved  regarding  the  noted  increased  incidence  of  pneumonia  and  interstitial  lung  disease  within 
variation II.108.  
12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit-Risk Balance  
The benefit/risk balance for the use in moderately to severely active UC in patients who have had an 
inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-MP or AZA, or who are 
intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies remains positive.  
Conclusion 
On 21 February 2007 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the summary of product characteristics.  
13/13 
 
 
 
 
 
