ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Remsima 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial contains 100 mg of infliximab*. After reconstitution each mL contains 10 mg of infliximab.  
* Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine IgG1 monoclonal antibody produced in murine hybridoma 
cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (powder for concentrate) 
The powder is white. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Remsima, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as 
well as the improvement in physical function in: 
• 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs), including methotrexate, has been inadequate. 
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with 
methotrexate or other DMARDs. 
• 
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured by 
X-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1). 
Adult Crohn’s disease 
Remsima is indicated for: 
• 
treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not 
responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such 
therapies. 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded despite 
a full and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment (including antibiotics, 
drainage and immunosuppressive therapy). 
• 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 
6 to 17 years, who have not responded to conventional therapy including a corticosteroid, an 
immunomodulator and primary nutrition therapy; or who are intolerant to or have contraindications for 
such therapies. Infliximab has been studied only in combination with conventional 
immunosuppressive therapy. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ulcerative colitis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 
6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of severely active ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents 
aged 6 to 17 years, who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and 6-MP or AZA, or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such 
therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis, in adult patients who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when 
the response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. 
Remsima should be administered: 
• 
• 
in combination with methotrexate 
or alone in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom methotrexate is 
contraindicated. 
Infliximab has been shown to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to 
reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with 
polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1). 
Psoriasis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed 
to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including 
ciclosporin, methotrexate or psoralen ultra-violet A (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Remsima treatment is to be initiated and supervised by qualified physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases, ankylosing spondylitis, 
psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis. Remsima should be administered intravenously. Remsima infusions 
should be administered by qualified healthcare professionals trained to detect any infusion-related 
issues. Patients treated with Remsima should be given the package leaflet and the patient reminder 
card. 
During Remsima treatment, other concomitant therapies, e.g. corticosteroids and immunosuppressants 
should be optimised. 
It is important to check the product labels to ensure that the correct formulation (intravenous or 
subcutaneous) is being administered to the patient, as prescribed. Remsima subcutaneous formulation 
is not intended for intravenous administration and should be administered via a subcutaneous injection 
only. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Adults (≥18 years)  
Rheumatoid arthritis 
3 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by additional 3 mg/kg infusion doses at 2 and 
6 weeks after the first infusion, then every 8 weeks thereafter. 
Remsima must be given concomitantly with methotrexate.  
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. If a 
patient has an inadequate response or loses response after this period, consideration may be given to 
increase the dose step-wise by approximately 1.5 mg/kg, up to a maximum of 7.5 mg/kg every 
8 weeks. Alternatively, administration of 3 mg/kg as often as every 4 weeks may be considered. If 
adequate response is achieved, patients should be continued on the selected dose or dose frequency. 
Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic 
benefit within the first 12 weeks of treatment or after dose adjustment. 
Moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease 
5 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by an additional 5 mg/kg infusion 2 weeks after the 
first infusion. If a patient does not respond after 2 doses, no additional treatment with infliximab 
should be given. Available data do not support further infliximab treatment, in patients not responding 
within 6 weeks of the initial infusion. 
In responding patients, the alternative strategies for continued treatment are: 
• 
Maintenance: Additional infusion of 5 mg/kg at 6 weeks after the initial dose, followed by 
infusions every 8 weeks or 
Re-administration: Infusion of 5 mg/kg if signs and symptoms of the disease recur (see 
‘Re-administration’ below and section 4.4). 
• 
Although comparative data are lacking, limited data in patients who initially responded to 5 mg/kg but 
who lost response indicate that some patients may regain response with dose escalation (see 
section 5.1). Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of 
therapeutic benefit after dose adjustment. 
Fistulising, active Crohn’s disease 
5 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by additional 5 mg/kg infusions at 2 and 6 weeks 
after the first infusion. If a patient does not respond after 3 doses, no additional treatment with 
infliximab should be given. 
In responding patients, the alternative strategies for continued treatment are: 
• 
Maintenance: Additional infusions of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks or 
• 
Re-administration: Infusion of 5 mg/kg if signs and symptoms of the disease recur followed by 
infusions of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks (see ‘Re-administration’ below and section 4.4). 
Although comparative data are lacking, limited data in patients who initially responded to 5 mg/kg but 
who lost response indicate that some patients may regain response with dose escalation (see 
section 5.1). Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of 
therapeutic benefit after dose adjustment. 
In Crohn’s disease, experience with re-administration if signs and symptoms of disease recur is limited 
and comparative data on the benefit/risk of the alternative strategies for continued treatment are 
lacking. 
Ulcerative colitis 
5 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by additional 5 mg/kg infusion doses at 2 and 
6 weeks after the first infusion, then every 8 weeks thereafter. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 14 weeks of treatment, i.e. 
three doses. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of 
therapeutic benefit within this time period. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
5 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by additional 5 mg/kg infusion doses at 2 and 
6 weeks after the first infusion, then every 6 to 8 weeks. If a patient does not respond by 6 weeks (i.e. 
after 2 doses), no additional treatment with infliximab should be given. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
5 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by additional 5 mg/kg infusion doses at 2 and 
6 weeks after the first infusion, then every 8 weeks thereafter. 
Psoriasis 
5 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by additional 5 mg/kg infusion doses at 2 and 
6 weeks after the first infusion, then every 8 weeks thereafter. If a patient shows no response after 
14 weeks (i.e. after 4 doses), no additional treatment with infliximab should be given. 
Re-administration for Crohn’s disease and rheumatoid arthritis 
If the signs and symptoms of disease recur, infliximab can be re-administered within 16 weeks 
following the last infusion. In clinical studies, delayed hypersensitivity reactions have been uncommon 
and have occurred after infliximab-free intervals of less than 1 year (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The 
safety and efficacy of re-administration after an infliximab-free interval of more than 16 weeks has not 
been established. This applies to both Crohn’s disease patients and rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
Re-administration for ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of re-administration, other than every 8 weeks, has not been established (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Re-administration for ankylosing spondylitis 
The safety and efficacy of re-administration, other than every 6 to 8 weeks, has not been established 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Re-administration for psoriatic arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of re-administration, other than every 8 weeks, has not been established (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Re-administration for psoriasis 
Limited experience from re-treatment with one single infliximab dose in psoriasis after an interval of 
20 weeks suggests reduced efficacy and a higher incidence of mild to moderate infusion reactions 
when compared to the initial induction regimen (see section 5.1). 
Limited experience from re-treatment following disease flare by a re-induction regimen suggests a 
higher incidence of infusion reactions, including serious ones, when compared to 8-weekly 
maintenance treatment (see section 4.8). 
Re-administration across indications 
In case maintenance therapy is interrupted, and there is a need to restart treatment, use of a 
re-induction regimen is not recommended (see section 4.8). In this situation, infliximab should be 
re-initiated as a single dose followed by the maintenance dose recommendations described above. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Specific studies of infliximab in elderly patients have not been conducted. No major age-related 
differences in clearance or volume of distribution were observed in clinical studies. No dose 
adjustment is required (see section 5.2). For more information about the safety of infliximab in elderly 
patients (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
Infliximab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be made 
(see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
Crohn’s disease (6 to 17 years) 
5 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by additional 5 mg/kg infusion doses at 2 and 
6 weeks after the first infusion, then every 8 weeks thereafter. Available data do not support further 
infliximab treatment in children and adolescents not responding within the first 10 weeks of treatment 
(see section 5.1). 
Some patients may require a shorter dosing interval to maintain clinical benefit, while for others a 
longer dosing interval may be sufficient. Patients who have had their dose interval shortened to less 
than 8 weeks may be at greater risk for adverse reactions. Continued therapy with a shortened interval 
should be carefully considered in those patients who show no evidence of additional therapeutic 
benefit after a change in dosing interval. 
The safety and efficacy of infliximab have not been studied in children with Crohn’s disease below the 
age of 6 years. Currently available pharmacokinetic data are described in section 5.2 but no 
recommendation on a posology can be made in children younger than 6 years. 
Ulcerative colitis (6 to 17 years) 
5 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed by additional 5 mg/kg infusion doses at 2 and 
6 weeks after the first infusion, then every 8 weeks thereafter. Available data do not support further 
infliximab treatment in paediatric patients not responding within the first 8 weeks of treatment (see 
section 5.1). 
The safety and efficacy of infliximab have not been studied in children with ulcerative colitis below 
the age of 6 years. Currently available pharmacokinetic data are described in section 5.2 but no 
recommendation on a posology can be made in children younger than 6 years. 
Psoriasis 
The safety and efficacy of infliximab in children and adolescents younger than 18 years for the 
indication of psoriasis have not been established. Currently available data are described in section 5.2 
but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis 
The safety and efficacy of infliximab in children and adolescents younger than 18 years for the 
indications of juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis have not been 
established. Currently available data are described in section 5.2 but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made. 
Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of infliximab in children and adolescents younger than 18 years for the 
indication of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis have not been established. Currently available data are 
described in sections 4.8 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
Infliximab should be administered intravenously over a 2 hour period. All patients administered 
infliximab are to be observed for at least 1-2 hours post-infusion for acute infusion-related reactions. 
Emergency equipment, such as adrenaline, antihistamines, corticosteroids and an artificial airway must 
be available. Patients may be pre-treated with e.g., an antihistamine, hydrocortisone and/or 
paracetamol and infusion rate may be slowed in order to decrease the risk of infusion-related reactions 
especially if infusion-related reactions have occurred previously (see section 4.4). 
Shortened infusions across adult indications 
In carefully selected adult patients who have tolerated at least 3 initial 2-hour infusions of infliximab 
(induction phase) and are receiving maintenance therapy, consideration may be given to administering 
subsequent infusions over a period of not less than 1 hour. If an infusion reaction occurs in association 
with a shortened infusion, a slower infusion rate may be considered for future infusions if treatment is 
to be continued. Shortened infusions at doses >6 mg/kg have not been studied (see section 4.8). 
For preparation and administration instructions, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to other murine proteins, or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1. 
Patients with tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, abscesses, and opportunistic 
infections (see section 4.4). 
Patients with moderate or severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV) (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infusion reactions and hypersensitivity 
Infliximab has been associated with acute infusion-related reactions, including anaphylactic shock, 
and delayed hypersensitivity reactions (see section 4.8). 
Acute infusion reactions including anaphylactic reactions may develop during (within seconds) or 
within a few hours following infusion. If acute infusion reactions occur, the infusion must be 
interrupted immediately. Emergency equipment, such as adrenaline, antihistamines, corticosteroids 
and an artificial airway must be available. Patients may be pre-treated with e.g., an antihistamine, 
hydrocortisone and/or paracetamol to prevent mild and transient effects. 
Antibodies to infliximab may develop and have been associated with an increased frequency of 
infusion reactions. A low proportion of the infusion reactions was serious allergic reactions. An 
association between development of antibodies to infliximab and reduced duration of response has 
also been observed. Concomitant administration of immunomodulators has been associated with lower 
incidence of antibodies to infliximab and a reduction in the frequency of infusion reactions. The effect 
of concomitant immunomodulator therapy was more profound in episodically-treated patients than in 
patients given maintenance therapy. Patients who discontinue immunosuppressants prior to or during 
infliximab treatment are at greater risk of developing these antibodies. Antibodies to infliximab cannot 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
always be detected in serum samples. If serious reactions occur, symptomatic treatment must be given 
and further infliximab infusions must not be administered (see section 4.8). 
In clinical studies, delayed hypersensitivity reactions have been reported. Available data suggest an 
increased risk for delayed hypersensitivity with increasing infliximab-free interval. Patients should be 
advised to seek immediate medical advice if they experience any delayed adverse reaction (see section 
4.8). If patients are re-treated after a prolonged period, they must be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of delayed hypersensitivity. 
Infections 
Patients must be monitored closely for infections including tuberculosis before, during and after 
treatment with infliximab. Because the elimination of infliximab may take up to six months, 
monitoring should be continued throughout this period. Further treatment with infliximab must not be 
given if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis. 
Caution should be exercised when considering the use of infliximab in patients with chronic infection 
or a history of recurrent infections, including concomitant immunosuppressive therapy. Patients 
should be advised of and avoid exposure to potential risk factors for infection as appropriate. 
Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) mediates inflammation and modulates cellular immune 
responses. Experimental data show that TNFα is essential for the clearing of intracellular infections. 
Clinical experience shows that host defence against infection is compromised in some patients treated 
with infliximab. 
It should be noted that suppression of TNFα may mask symptoms of infection such as fever. Early 
recognition of atypical clinical presentations of serious infections and of typical clinical presentation 
of rare and unusual infections is critical in order to minimise delays in diagnosis and treatment.  
Patients taking TNF-blockers are more susceptible to serious infections. 
Tuberculosis, bacterial infections, including sepsis and pneumonia, invasive fungal, viral, and other 
opportunistic infections have been observed in patients treated with infliximab. Some of these 
infections have been fatal; the most frequently reported opportunistic infections with a mortality rate 
of >5% include pneumocystosis, candidiasis, listeriosis and aspergillosis. 
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with infliximab, should be 
monitored closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of infliximab should 
be discontinued if a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial 
or antifungal therapy should be initiated until the infection is controlled. 
Tuberculosis 
There have been reports of active tuberculosis in patients receiving infliximab. It should be noted that 
in the majority of these reports tuberculosis was extrapulmonary, presenting as either local or 
disseminated disease. 
Before starting treatment with infliximab, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of tuberculosis or possible previous contact with tuberculosis and previous and/or current 
immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests, (e.g. tuberculin skin test, chest X-ray, and/or 
Interferon Gamma Release Assay), should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may 
apply). It is recommended that the conduct of these tests should be recorded in the patient reminder 
card. Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in 
patients who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, infliximab therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3).  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted. In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of infliximab therapy should be 
very carefully considered. 
If inactive (‘latent’) tuberculosis is diagnosed, treatment for latent tuberculosis must be started with 
antituberculosis therapy before the initiation of infliximab, and in accordance with local 
recommendations. 
In patients who have several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis and have a negative test for 
latent tuberculosis, antituberculosis therapy should be considered before the initiation of infliximab.  
Use of antituberculosis therapy should also be considered before the initiation of infliximab in patients 
with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be 
confirmed. 
Some cases of active tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with infliximab during and 
after treatment for latent tuberculosis. 
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g. persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low-grade fever) appear during or after infliximab 
treatment. 
Invasive fungal infections 
In patients treated with infliximab, an invasive fungal infection such as aspergillosis, candidiasis, 
pneumocystosis, histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis should be suspected if they 
develop a serious systemic illness, and a physician with expertise in the diagnosis and treatment of 
invasive fungal infections should be consulted at an early stage when investigating these patients.  
Invasive fungal infections may present as disseminated rather than localised disease, and antigen and 
antibody testing may be negative in some patients with active infection. Appropriate empiric 
antifungal therapy should be considered while a diagnostic workup is being performed taking into 
account both the risk for severe fungal infection and the risks of antifungal therapy. 
For patients who have resided in or travelled to regions where invasive fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis are endemic, the benefits and risks of infliximab 
treatment should be carefully considered before initiation of infliximab therapy. 
Fistulising Crohn’s disease 
Patients with fistulising Crohn’s disease with acute suppurative fistulas must not initiate infliximab 
therapy until a source for possible infection, specifically abscess, has been excluded (see section 4.3). 
Hepatitis B (HBV) reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including infliximab, 
who are chronic carriers of this virus. Some cases have had fatal outcome. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with infliximab. For patients 
who test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of 
hepatitis B is recommended. Carriers of HBV who require treatment with infliximab should be closely 
monitored for signs and symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months 
following termination of therapy. Adequate data of treating patients who are carriers of HBV with 
antiviral therapy in conjunction with TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not 
available. In patients who develop HBV reactivation, infliximab should be stopped and effective 
antiviral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatobiliary events 
Cases of jaundice and non-infectious hepatitis, some with features of autoimmune hepatitis, have been 
observed in the post-marketing experience of infliximab. Isolated cases of liver failure resulting in 
liver transplantation or death have occurred. Patients with symptoms or signs of liver dysfunction 
should be evaluated for evidence of liver injury. If jaundice and/or ALT elevations ≥5 times the upper 
limit of normal develop(s), infliximab should be discontinued, and a thorough investigation of the 
abnormality should be undertaken. 
Concurrent administration of TNF-alpha inhibitor and anakinra 
Serious infections and neutropenia were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and 
another TNFα-blocking agent, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. 
Because of the nature of the adverse reactions seen with combination of etanercept and anakinra 
therapy, similar toxicities may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNFα-blocking 
agents. Therefore, the combination of infliximab and anakinra is not recommended. 
Concurrent administration of TNF-alpha inhibitor and abatacept 
In clinical studies concurrent administration of TNF-antagonists and abatacept has been associated 
with an increased risk of infections including serious infections compared to TNF-antagonists alone, 
without increased clinical benefit. The combination of infliximab and abatacept is not recommended. 
Concurrent administration with other biological therapeutics 
There is insufficient information regarding the concomitant use of infliximab with other biological 
therapeutics used to treat the same conditions as infliximab. The concomitant use of infliximab with 
these biologics is not recommended because of the possibility of an increased risk of infection, and 
other potential pharmacological interactions. 
Switching between biological DMARDs 
Care should be taken and patients should continue to be monitored when switching from one biologic 
to another, since overlapping biological activity may further increase the risk for adverse reactions, 
including infection. 
Vaccinations 
It is recommended that patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all vaccinations in agreement 
with current vaccination guidelines prior to initiating Remsima therapy. Patients on infliximab may 
receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines (see sections 4.5 and 4.6). 
In a subset of 90 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis from the ASPIRE study a similar proportion 
of patients in each treatment group (methotrexate plus: placebo [n = 17], 3 mg/kg [n = 27] or 6 mg/kg 
infliximab [n = 46]) mounted an effective two-fold increase in titers to a polyvalent pneumococcal 
vaccine, indicating that infliximab did not interfere with T-cell independent humoral immune 
responses. However, studies from the published literature in various indications (e.g. rheumatoid 
arthritis, psoriasis, Crohn’s disease) suggest that non-live vaccinations received during treatment with 
anti-TNF therapies, including infliximab may elicit a lower immune response than in patients not 
receiving anti-TNF therapy. 
Live vaccines/therapeutic infectious agents 
In patients receiving anti-TNF therapy, limited data are available on the response to vaccination with 
live vaccines or on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Use of live vaccines can 
result in clinical infections, including disseminated infections. The concurrent administration of live 
vaccines with infliximab is not recommended. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infant exposure in utero 
In infants exposed in utero to infliximab, fatal outcome due to disseminated Bacillus Calmette-Guérin 
(BCG) infection has been reported following administration of BCG vaccine after birth. A twelve 
month waiting period following birth is recommended before the administration of live vaccines to 
infants exposed in utero to infliximab. If infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable or infliximab 
administration was limited to the first trimester of pregnancy, administration of a live vaccine might be 
considered at an earlier timepoint if there is a clear clinical benefit for the individual infant (see 
section 4.6). 
Infant exposure via breast milk 
Administration of a live vaccine to a breastfed infant while the mother is receiving infliximab is not 
recommended unless infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable (see section 4.6). 
Therapeutic infectious agents 
Other uses of therapeutic infectious agents such as live attenuated bacteria (e.g., BCG bladder 
instillation for the treatment of cancer) could result in clinical infections, including disseminated 
infections. It is recommended that therapeutic infectious agents not be given concurrently with 
infliximab. 
Autoimmune processes 
The relative deficiency of TNFα caused by anti-TNF therapy may result in the initiation of an 
autoimmune process. If a patient develops symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following 
treatment with infliximab and is positive for antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further 
treatment with infliximab must not be given (see section 4.8). 
Neurological events 
Use of TNF-blocking agents, including infliximab, has been associated with cases of new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system 
demyelinating disorders, including multiple sclerosis, and peripheral demyelinating disorders, 
including Guillain-Barré syndrome. In patients with pre-existing or recent onset of demyelinating 
disorders, the benefits and risks of anti-TNF treatment should be carefully considered before initiation 
of infliximab therapy. Discontinuation of infliximab should be considered if these disorders develop. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In the controlled portions of clinical studies of TNF-blocking agents, more cases of malignancies 
including lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF blocker compared with 
control patients. During clinical studies of infliximab across all approved indications the incidence of 
lymphoma in infliximab-treated patients was higher than expected in the general population, but the 
occurrence of lymphoma was rare. In the post-marketing setting, cases of leukaemia have been 
reported in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for 
lymphoma and leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, 
inflammatory disease, which complicates risk estimation. 
In an exploratory clinical study evaluating the use of infliximab in patients with moderate to severe 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies were reported in infliximab-
treated patients compared with control patients. All patients had a history of heavy smoking. Caution 
should be exercised in considering treatment of patients with increased risk for malignancy due to 
heavy smoking. 
With the current knowledge, a risk for the development of lymphomas or other malignancies in 
patients treated with a TNF-blocking agent cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). Caution should be 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exercised when considering TNF-blocking therapy for patients with a history of malignancy or when 
considering continuing treatment in patients who develop a malignancy. 
Caution should also be exercised in patients with psoriasis and a medical history of extensive 
immunosuppressant therapy or prolonged PUVA treatment. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-blocking agents (initiation of therapy ≤18 years of age), including 
infliximab in the post-marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other 
cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in patients treated with 
TNF-blockers cannot be excluded. 
Post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL) have been reported in patients 
treated with TNF-blocking agents including infliximab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very 
aggressive disease course and is usually fatal. Almost all patients had received treatment with AZA or 
6-MP concomitantly with or immediately prior to a TNF-blocker. The vast majority of infliximab 
cases have occurred in patients with Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis and most were reported in 
adolescent or young adult males. The potential risk with the combination of AZA or 6-MP and 
infliximab should be carefully considered. A risk for the development for hepatosplenic T-cell 
lymphoma in patients treated with infliximab cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
Melanoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported in patients treated with TNF blocker 
therapy, including infliximab (see section 4.8). Periodic skin examination is recommended, 
particularly for patients with risk factors for skin cancer. 
A population-based retrospective cohort study using data from Swedish national health registries 
found an increased incidence of cervical cancer in women with rheumatoid arthritis treated with 
infliximab compared to biologics-naïve patients or the general population, including those over 
60 years of age. Periodic screening should continue in women treated with infliximab, including those 
over 60 years of age. 
All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon carcinoma (for 
example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing cholangitis), or who had a 
prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for dysplasia at regular intervals 
before therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation should include colonoscopy and 
biopsies per local recommendations. Current data do not indicate that infliximab treatment influences 
the risk for developing dysplasia or colon cancer. 
Since the possibility of increased risk of cancer development in patients with newly diagnosed 
dysplasia treated with infliximab is not established, the risk and benefits of continued therapy to the 
individual patients should be carefully considered by the clinician. 
Heart failure 
Infliximab should be used with caution in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Patients 
should be closely monitored and infliximab must not be continued in patients who develop new or 
worsening symptoms of heart failure (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). 
Haematologic reactions 
There have been reports of pancytopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia in patients 
receiving TNF-blockers, including infliximab. All patients should be advised to seek immediate 
medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias (e.g. persistent 
fever, bruising, bleeding, pallor). Discontinuation of infliximab therapy should be considered in 
patients with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Others 
There is limited safety experience of infliximab treatment in patients who have undergone surgical 
procedures, including arthroplasty. The long half-life of infliximab should be taken into consideration 
if a surgical procedure is planned. A patient who requires surgery while on infliximab should be 
closely monitored for infections, and appropriate actions should be taken. 
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of a fixed fibrotic 
stricture that may require surgical treatment. There is no evidence to suggest that infliximab worsens 
or causes fibrotic strictures. 
Special populations  
Elderly 
The incidence of serious infections in infliximab-treated patients 65 years and older was greater than 
in those under 65 years of age. Some of those had a fatal outcome. Particular attention regarding the 
risk for infection should be paid when treating the elderly (see section 4.8). 
Paediatric population 
Infections 
In clinical studies, infections have been reported in a higher proportion of paediatric patients compared 
to adult patients (see section 4.8). 
Vaccinations 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all vaccinations in 
agreement with current vaccination guidelines prior to initiating infliximab therapy. Paediatric patients 
on infliximab may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines (see sections 4.5 and 4.6). 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-blocking agents (initiation of therapy ≤18 years of age), including 
infliximab in the post-marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other 
cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-blockers cannot be excluded. 
Post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with 
TNF-blocking agents including infliximab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive 
disease course and is usually fatal. Almost all patients had received treatment with AZA or 6-MP 
concomitantly with or immediately prior to a TNF-blocker. The vast majority of infliximab cases have 
occurred in patients with Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis and most were reported in adolescent or 
young adult males. The potential risk with the combination of AZA or 6-MP and infliximab should be 
carefully considered. A risk for the development for hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated 
with infliximab cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
Sodium content 
Remsima contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. Remsima 
is however, diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion. This should be taken into 
consideration for patients on a controlled sodium diet (see section 6.6). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and Crohn's disease patients, there are indications that 
concomitant use of methotrexate and other immunomodulators reduces the formation of antibodies 
against infliximab and increases the plasma concentrations of infliximab. However, the results are 
uncertain due to limitations in the methods used for serum analyses of infliximab and antibodies 
against infliximab. 
Corticosteroids do not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of infliximab to a clinically relevant 
extent. 
The combination of infliximab with other biological therapeutics used to treat the same conditions as 
infliximab, including anakinra and abatacept, is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
It is recommended that live vaccines not be given concurrently with infliximab. It is also 
recommended that live vaccines not be given to infants after in utero exposure to infliximab for 
12 months following birth. If infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable or infliximab 
administration was limited to the first trimester of pregnancy, administration of a live vaccine might be 
considered at an earlier timepoint if there is a clear clinical benefit for the individual infant (see 
section 4.4). 
Administration of a live vaccine to a breastfed infant while the mother is receiving infliximab is not 
recommended unless infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). 
It is recommended that therapeutic infectious agents not be given concurrently with infliximab (see 
section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent 
pregnancy and continue its use for at least 6 months after the last infliximab treatment. 
Pregnancy 
The moderate number of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to infliximab resulting in live 
birth with known outcomes, including approximately 1,100 exposed during the first trimester, does not 
indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn.  
Based on an observational study from Northern Europe, an increased risk (OR, 95% CI; p-value) for 
C-section (1.50, 1.14-1.96; p = 0.0032), preterm birth (1.48, 1.05-2.09; p = 0.024), small for 
gestational age (2.79, 1.54-5.04; p = 0.0007), and low birth weight (2.03, 1.41-2.94; p = 0.0002) was 
observed in women exposed during pregnancy to infliximab (with or without 
immunomodulators/corticosteroids, 270 pregnancies) as compared to women exposed to 
immunomodulators and/or corticosteroids only (6,460 pregnancies). The potential contribution of 
exposure to infliximab and/or the severity of the underlying disease in these outcomes remains 
unclear. 
Due to its inhibition of TNFα, infliximab administered during pregnancy could affect normal immune 
responses in the newborn. In a developmental toxicity study conducted in mice using an analogous 
antibody that selectively inhibits the functional activity of mouse TNFα, there was no indication of 
maternal toxicity, embryotoxicity or teratogenicity (see section 5.3). 
The available clinical experience is limited. Infliximab should only be used during pregnancy if 
clearly needed. 
Infliximab crosses the placenta and has been detected in the serum of infants up to 12 months 
following birth. After in utero exposure to infliximab, infants may be at increased risk of infection, 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
including serious disseminated infection that can become fatal. Administration of live vaccines 
(e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to infliximab in utero is not recommended for 12 months after 
birth (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). If infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable or infliximab 
administration was limited to the first trimester of pregnancy, administration of a live vaccine might be 
considered at an earlier timepoint if there is a clear clinical benefit for the individual infant. Cases of 
agranulocytosis have also been reported (see section 4.8). 
Breast-feeding 
Limited data from published literature indicate infliximab has been detected at low levels in human 
milk at concentrations up to 5% of the maternal serum level. Infliximab has also been detected in 
infant serum after exposure to infliximab via breast milk. While systemic exposure in a breastfed 
infant is expected to be low because infliximab is largely degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, the 
administration of live vaccines to a breastfed infant when the mother is receiving infliximab is not 
recommended unless infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable. Infliximab could be considered 
for use during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
There are insufficient preclinical data to draw conclusions on the effects of infliximab on fertility and 
general reproductive function (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Remsima may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur 
following administration of infliximab (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Upper respiratory tract infection was the most common adverse drug reaction (ADR) reported in 
clinical trials, occurring in 25.3% of infliximab-treated patients compared with 16.5% of control 
patients. The most serious ADRs associated with the use of TNF blockers that have been reported for 
infliximab include HBV reactivation, CHF (congestive heart failure), serious infections (including 
sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), serum sickness (delayed hypersensitivity reactions), 
haematologic reactions, systemic lupus erythematosus/lupus-like syndrome, demyelinating disorders, 
hepatobiliary events, lymphoma, HSTCL, leukaemia, Merkel cell carcinoma, melanoma, paediatric 
malignancy, sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like reaction, intestinal or perianal abscess (in Crohn’s disease), and 
serious infusion reactions (see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 1 lists the ADRs based on experience from clinical studies as well as adverse reactions, some 
with fatal outcome, reported from post-marketing experience. Within the organ system classes, 
adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the following categories: very common 
(≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within 
each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Adverse reactions in clinical studies and from post-marketing experience 
Infections and infestations 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Viral infection (e.g. influenza, herpes virus infection). 
Bacterial infections (e.g. sepsis, cellulitis, abscess).  
Tuberculosis, fungal infections (e.g. candidiasis, onychomycosis). 
Meningitis, opportunistic infections (such as invasive fungal infections 
[pneumocystosis, histoplasmosis, aspergillosis, coccidioidomycosis, 
cryptococcosis, blastomycosis], bacterial infections [atypical 
mycobacterial, listeriosis, salmonellosis], and viral infections 
[cytomegalovirus]), parasitic infections, hepatitis B reactivation. 
Not known: 
Vaccine breakthrough infection (after in utero exposure to 
infliximab)*. 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Rare: 
Not known: 
Lymphoma, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, Hodgkin’s disease, leukaemia, 
melanoma, cervical cancer. 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (primarily in adolescents and young 
adult males with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis), Merkel cell 
carcinoma, Kaposi’s sarcoma. 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Neutropenia, leukopenia, anaemia, lymphadenopathy. 
Thrombocytopenia, lymphopenia, lymphocytosis.  
Agranulocytosis (including infants exposed in utero to infliximab), 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, pancytopenia, haemolytic 
anaemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. 
Immune system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare  
Allergic respiratory symptom. 
Anaphylactic reaction, lupus-like syndrome, serum sickness or serum 
sickness-like reaction. 
Anaphylactic shock, vasculitis, sarcoid-like reaction 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Uncommon: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Dyslipidaemia. 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Depression, insomnia. 
Amnesia, agitation, confusion, somnolence, nervousness. 
Apathy. 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Headache. 
Vertigo, dizziness, hypoaesthesia, paraesthesia. 
Seizure, neuropathy. 
Transverse myelitis, central nervous system demyelinating disorders 
(multiple sclerosis-like disease and optic neuritis), peripheral 
demyelinating disorders (such as Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic 
inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy and multifocal motor 
neuropathy). 
Cerebrovascular accidents in close temporal association with infusion. 
Conjunctivitis 
Keratitis, periorbital oedema, hordeolum 
Endophthalmitis 
Transient visual loss occurring during or within 2 hours of infusion 
16 
Cardiac disorders 
Common  
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Tachycardia, palpitation 
Cardiac failure (new onset or worsening), arrhythmia, syncope, 
bradycardia 
Cyanosis, pericardial effusion 
Myocardial ischaemia/myocardial infarction 
Hypotension, hypertension, ecchymosis, hot flush, flushing 
Peripheral ischaemia, thrombophlebitis, haematoma 
Rare 
Circulatory failure, petechia, vasospasm 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis 
Lower respiratory tract infection (e.g. bronchitis, pneumonia), 
dyspnoea, epistaxis 
Pulmonary oedema, bronchospasm, pleurisy, pleural effusion 
Interstitial lung disease (including rapidly progressive disease, lung 
fibrosis and pneumonitis) 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common:  
Common:  
Uncommon 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Abdominal pain, nausea 
Gastrointestinal haemorrhage, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal 
reflux, constipation 
Intestinal perforation, intestinal stenosis, diverticulitis, pancreatitis, 
cheilitis 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Not known: 
Hepatic function abnormal, transaminases increased. 
Hepatitis, hepatocellular damage, cholecystitis. 
Autoimmune hepatitis, jaundice. 
Liver failure. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Not known: 
New onset or worsening psoriasis including pustular psoriasis 
(primarily palm & soles), urticaria, rash, pruritus, hyperhidrosis, dry 
skin, fungal dermatitis, eczema, alopecia. 
Bullous eruption, seborrhoea, rosacea, skin papilloma, hyperkeratosis, 
abnormal skin pigmentation. 
Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, furunculosis, linear IgA bullous dermatosis (LABD), 
acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), lichenoid 
reactions. 
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis. 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Common: 
Arthralgia, myalgia, back pain. 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Urinary tract infection. 
Pyelonephritis. 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon: 
Vaginitis. 
17 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Infusion-related reaction, pain. 
Chest pain, fatigue, fever, injection site reaction, chills, oedema. 
Impaired healing. 
Granulomatous lesion. 
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Autoantibody positive. 
Complement factor abnormal. 
*  including bovine tuberculosis (disseminated BCG infection), see section 4.4 
Description of selected adverse drug reactions 
Infusion-related reactions 
An infusion-related reaction was defined in clinical studies as any adverse event occurring during an 
infusion or within 1 hour after an infusion. In phase III clinical studies, 18% of infliximab-treated 
patients compared with 5% of placebo-treated patients experienced an infusion-related reaction. 
Overall, a higher proportion of patients receiving infliximab monotherapy experienced an 
infusion-related reaction compared to patients receiving infliximab with concomitant 
immunomodulators. Approximately 3% of patients discontinued treatment due to infusion-related 
reactions and all patients recovered with or without medical therapy. Of infliximab-treated patients 
who had an infusion reaction during the induction period, through week 6, 27% experienced an 
infusion reaction during the maintenance period, week 7 through week 54. Of patients who did not 
have an infusion reaction during the induction period, 9% experienced an infusion reaction during the 
maintenance period. 
In a clinical study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ASPIRE), infusions were to be administered 
over 2 hours for the first 3 infusions. The duration of subsequent infusions could be shortened to not 
less than 40 minutes in patients who did not experience serious infusion reactions. In this trial, sixty 
six percent of the patients (686 out of 1,040) received at least one shortened infusion of 90 minutes or 
less and 44% of the patients (454 out of 1,040) received at least one shortened infusion of 60 minutes 
or less. Of the infliximab-treated patients who received at least one shortened infusion, 
infusion-related reactions occurred in 15% of patients and serious infusion reactions occurred in 0.4% 
of patients. 
In a clinical study of patients with Crohn’s disease (SONIC), infusion-related reactions occurred in 
16.6% (27/163) of patients receiving infliximab monotherapy, 5% (9/179) of patients receiving 
infliximab in combination with AZA, and 5.6% (9/161) of patients receiving AZA monotherapy. One 
serious infusion reaction (<1%) occurred in a patient on infliximab monotherapy. 
In post-marketing experience, cases of anaphylactic-like reactions, including laryngeal/pharyngeal 
oedema and severe bronchospasm, and seizure have been associated with infliximab administration 
(see section 4.4). Cases of transient visual loss occurring during or within 2 hours of infliximab 
infusion have been reported. Events (some fatal) of myocardial ischaemia/infarction and arrhythmia 
have been reported, some in close temporal association with infusion of infliximab; cerebrovascular 
accidents have also been reported in close temporal association with infusion of infliximab. 
Infusion reactions following re-administration of infliximab 
A clinical study in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis was designed to assess the efficacy and 
safety of long-term maintenance therapy versus re-treatment with an induction regimen of infliximab 
(maximum of four infusions at 0, 2, 6 and 14 weeks) following disease flare. Patients did not receive 
any concomitant immunosuppressant therapy. In the re-treatment arm, 4% (8/219) of patients 
experienced a serious infusion reaction versus <1% (1/222) on maintenance therapy. The majority of 
serious infusion reactions occurred during the second infusion at week 2. The interval between the last 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maintenance dose and the first re-induction dose ranged from 35-231 days. Symptoms included, but 
were not limited to, dyspnoea, urticaria, facial oedema, and hypotension. In all cases, infliximab 
treatment was discontinued and/or other treatment instituted with complete resolution of signs and 
symptoms. 
Delayed hypersensitivity 
In clinical studies delayed hypersensitivity reactions have been uncommon and have occurred after 
infliximab-free intervals of less than 1 year. In the psoriasis studies, delayed hypersensitivity reactions 
occurred early in the treatment course. Signs and symptoms included myalgia and/or arthralgia with 
fever and/or rash, with some patients experiencing pruritus, facial, hand or lip oedema, dysphagia, 
urticaria, sore throat and headache. 
There are insufficient data on the incidence of delayed hypersensitivity reactions after infliximab-free 
intervals of more than 1 year but limited data from clinical studies suggest an increased risk for 
delayed hypersensitivity with increasing infliximab-free interval (see section 4.4). 
In a 1-year clinical study with repeated infusions in patients with Crohn's disease (ACCENT I study), 
the incidence of serum sickness-like reactions was 2.4%. 
Immunogenicity 
Patients who developed antibodies to infliximab were more likely (approximately 2-3 fold) to develop 
infusion-related reactions. Use of concomitant immunosuppressant agents appeared to reduce the 
frequency of infusion-related reactions. 
In clinical studies using single and multiple infliximab doses ranging from 1 to 20 mg/kg, antibodies 
to infliximab were detected in 14% of patients with any immunosuppressant therapy, and in 24% of 
patients without immunosuppressant therapy. In rheumatoid arthritis patients who received the 
recommended repeated treatment dose regimens with methotrexate, 8% of patients developed 
antibodies to infliximab. In psoriatic arthritis patients who received 5 mg/kg with and without 
methotrexate, antibodies occurred overall in 15% of patients (antibodies occurred in 4% of patients 
receiving methotrexate and in 26% of patients not receiving methotrexate at baseline). In Crohn's 
disease patients who received maintenance treatment, antibodies to infliximab occurred overall in 
3.3% of patients receiving immunosuppressants and in 13.3% of patients not receiving 
immunosuppressants. The antibody incidence was 2-3 fold higher for patients treated episodically. 
Due to methodological limitations, a negative assay did not exclude the presence of antibodies to 
infliximab. Some patients who developed high titres of antibodies to infliximab had evidence of 
reduced efficacy. In psoriasis patients treated with infliximab as a maintenance regimen in the absence 
of concomitant immunomodulators, approximately 28% developed antibodies to infliximab (see 
section 4.4: "Infusion reactions and hypersensitivity"). 
Infections 
Tuberculosis, bacterial infections, including sepsis and pneumonia, invasive fungal, viral, and other 
opportunistic infections have been observed in patients receiving infliximab. Some of these infections 
have been fatal; the most frequently reported opportunistic infections with a mortality rate of >5% 
include pneumocystosis, candidiasis, listeriosis and aspergillosis (see section 4.4). 
In clinical studies 36% of infliximab-treated patients were treated for infections compared with 25% of 
placebo-treated patients. 
In rheumatoid arthritis clinical studies, the incidence of serious infections including pneumonia was 
higher in infliximab plus methotrexate-treated patients compared with methotrexate alone especially at 
doses of 6 mg/kg or greater (see section 4.4). 
In post-marketing spontaneous reporting, infections are the most common serious adverse reaction. 
Some of the cases have resulted in a fatal outcome. Nearly 50% of reported deaths have been 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
associated with infection. Cases of tuberculosis, sometimes fatal, including miliary tuberculosis and 
tuberculosis with extra-pulmonary location have been reported (see section 4.4). 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In clinical studies with infliximab in which 5,780 patients were treated, representing 5,494 patient 
years, 5 cases of lymphomas and 26 non-lymphoma malignancies were detected as compared with no 
lymphomas and 1 non-lymphoma malignancy in 1,600 placebo-treated patients representing 
941 patient years. 
In long-term safety follow-up of clinical studies with infliximab of up to 5 years, representing 
6,234 patients-years (3,210 patients), 5 cases of lymphoma and 38 cases of non-lymphoma 
malignancies were reported. 
Cases of malignancies, including lymphoma, have also been reported in the post-marketing setting 
(see section 4.4). 
In an exploratory clinical study involving patients with moderate to severe COPD who were either 
current smokers or ex-smokers, 157 adult patients were treated with infliximab at doses similar to 
those used in rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn’s disease. Nine of these patients developed malignancies, 
including 1 lymphoma. The median duration of follow-up was 0.8 years (incidence 5.7% [95% CI 
2.65%-10.6%]. There was one reported malignancy amongst 77 control patients (median duration of 
follow-up 0.8 years; incidence 1.3% [95% CI 0.03%-7.0%]). The majority of the malignancies 
developed in the lung or head and neck. 
A population-based retrospective cohort study found an increased incidence of cervical cancer in 
women with rheumatoid arthritis treated with infliximab compared to biologics-naïve patients or the 
general population, including those over 60 years of age (see section 4.4). 
In addition, post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients 
treated with infliximab with the vast majority of cases occurring in Crohn’s disease and ulcerative 
colitis, and most of whom were adolescent or young adult males (see section 4.4). 
Heart failure 
In a Phase II study aimed at evaluating infliximab in CHF, higher incidence of mortality due to 
worsening of heart failure were seen in patients treated with infliximab, especially those treated with 
the higher dose of 10 mg/kg (i.e. twice the maximum approved dose). In this study 150 patients with 
NYHA Class III-IV CHF (left ventricular ejection fraction ≤35%) were treated with 3 infusions of 
infliximab 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, or placebo over 6 weeks. At 38 weeks, 9 of 101 patients treated with 
infliximab (2 at 5 mg/kg and 7 at 10 mg/kg) died compared to one death among the 49 patients on 
placebo. 
There have been post-marketing reports of worsening heart failure, with and without identifiable 
precipitating factors, in patients taking infliximab. There have also been post-marketing reports of new 
onset heart failure, including heart failure in patients without known pre-existing cardiovascular 
disease. Some of these patients have been under 50 years of age. 
Hepatobiliary events 
In clinical studies, mild or moderate elevations of ALT and AST have been observed in patients 
receiving infliximab without progression to severe hepatic injury. Elevations of ALT ≥5 x Upper 
Limit of Normal (ULN) have been observed (see Table 2). Elevations of aminotransferases were 
observed (ALT more common than AST) in a greater proportion of patients receiving infliximab than 
in controls, both when infliximab was given as monotherapy and when it was used in combination 
with other immunosuppressive agents. Most aminotransferase abnormalities were transient; however, 
a small number of patients experienced more prolonged elevations. In general, patients who developed 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALT and AST elevations were asymptomatic, and the abnormalities decreased or resolved with either 
continuation or discontinuation of infliximab, or modification of concomitant therapy. In 
post-marketing surveillance, cases of jaundice and hepatitis, some with features of autoimmune 
hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving infliximab (see section 4.4).  
Table 2 
Proportion of patients with increased ALT activity in clinical studies 
Number of patients3 
Median follow-up 
(wks)4 
≥3 x ULN 
≥5 x ULN 
placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab 
375 
1,087 
58.1 
58.3 
3.2% 
3.9% 
0.8% 
0.9% 
324 
1,034 
53.7 
54.0 
2.2% 
4.9% 
0.0% 
1.5% 
N/A 
139 
N/A 
53.0 
N/A 
4.4% 
N/A 
1.5% 
242 
N/A 
76 
98 
482 
60 
275 
191 
30.1 
N/A 
30.8 
49.4 
1.2% 
2.5% 
0.4% 
0.6% 
N/A 
6.7% 
N/A 
1.7% 
24.1 
101.9 
0.0% 
9.5% 
0.0% 
3.6% 
18.1 
39.1 
0.0% 
6.8% 
0.0% 
2.1% 
281 
1,175 
16.1 
50.1 
0.4% 
7.7% 
0.0% 
3.4% 
Indication 
Rheumatoid 
arthritis1 
Crohn’s 
disease2 
Paediatric 
Crohn’s 
disease 
Ulcerative 
colitis 
Paediatric 
Ulcerative 
colitis 
Ankylosing 
spondylitis 
Psoriatic 
arthritis 
Plaque 
psoriasis 
1  Placebo patients received methotrexate while infliximab patients received both infliximab and 
methotrexate. 
2  Placebo patients in the 2 Phase III studies in Crohn’s disease, ACCENT I and ACCENT II, 
received an initial dose of 5 mg/kg infliximab at study start and were on placebo in the 
maintenance phase. Patients who were randomised to the placebo maintenance group and then later 
crossed over to infliximab are included in the infliximab group in the ALT analysis. In the Phase 
IIIb trial in Crohn’s disease, SONIC, placebo patients received AZA 2.5 mg/kg/day as active 
control in addition to placebo infliximab infusions. 
3  Number of patients evaluated for ALT. 
4  Median follow-up is based on patients treated. 
Antinuclear antibodies (ANA)/Anti-double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) antibodies 
Approximately half of infliximab-treated patients in clinical studies who were ANA negative at 
baseline developed a positive ANA during the study compared with approximately one fifth of 
placebo-treated patients. Anti-dsDNA antibodies were newly detected in approximately 17% of 
infliximab-treated patients compared with 0% of placebo-treated patients. At the last evaluation, 57% 
of infliximab-treated patients remained anti-dsDNA positive. Reports of lupus and lupus-like 
syndromes, however, remain uncommon (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patients 
Infliximab was studied in a clinical study in 120 patients (age range: 4-17 years old) with active 
juvenile rheumatoid arthritis despite methotrexate. Patients received 3 or 6 mg/kg infliximab as a 
3-dose induction regimen (weeks 0, 2, 6 or weeks 14, 16, 20, respectively) followed by maintenance 
therapy every 8 weeks, in combination with methotrexate. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infusion reactions 
Infusion reactions occurred in 35% of patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis receiving 3 mg/kg 
compared with 17.5% of patients receiving 6 mg/kg. In the 3 mg/kg infliximab group, 4 out of 
60 patients had a serious infusion reaction and 3 patients reported a possible anaphylactic reaction (2 
of which were among the serious infusion reactions). In the 6 mg/kg group, 2 out of 57 patients had a 
serious infusion reaction, one of whom had a possible anaphylactic reaction (see section 4.4). 
Immunogenicity 
Antibodies to infliximab developed in 38% of patients receiving 3 mg/kg compared with 12% of 
patients receiving 6 mg/kg. The antibody titres were notably higher for the 3 mg/kg compared to the 
6 mg/kg group. 
Infections 
Infections occurred in 68% (41/60) of children receiving 3 mg/kg over 52 weeks, 65% (37/57) of 
children receiving infliximab 6 mg/kg over 38 weeks and 47% (28/60) of children receiving placebo 
over 14 weeks (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease patients 
The following adverse reactions were reported more commonly in paediatric Crohn’s disease patients 
in the REACH study (see section 5.1) than in adult Crohn’s disease patients: anaemia (10.7%), blood 
in stool (9.7%), leukopenia (8.7%), flushing (8.7%), viral infection (7.8%), neutropenia (6.8%), 
bacterial infection (5.8%), and respiratory tract allergic reaction (5.8%). In addition, bone fracture 
(6.8%) was reported, however, a causal association has not been established. Other special 
considerations are discussed below. 
Infusion-related reactions 
In REACH, 17.5% of randomised patients experienced 1 or more infusion reactions. There were no 
serious infusion reactions, and 2 subjects in REACH had non-serious anaphylactic reactions. 
Immunogenicity 
Antibodies to infliximab were detected in 3 (2.9%) paediatric patients. 
Infections 
In the REACH study, infections were reported in 56.3% of randomised subjects treated with 
infliximab. Infections were reported more frequently for subjects who received q8 week as opposed to 
q12 week infusions (73.6% and 38.0%, respectively), while serious infections were reported for 
3 subjects in the q8 week and 4 subjects in the q12 week maintenance treatment group. The most 
commonly reported infections were upper respiratory tract infection and pharyngitis, and the most 
commonly reported serious infection was abscess. Three cases of pneumonia (1 serious) and 2 cases of 
herpes zoster (both non-serious) were reported. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis patients 
Overall, the adverse reactions reported in the paediatric ulcerative colitis trial (C0168T72) and adult 
ulcerative colitis (ACT 1 and ACT 2) studies were generally consistent. In C0168T72, the most 
common adverse reactions were upper respiratory tract infection, pharyngitis, abdominal pain, fever, 
and headache. The most common adverse event was worsening of ulcerative colitis, the incidence of 
which was higher in patients on the q12 week vs. the q8 week dosing regimen. 
Infusion-related reactions 
Overall, 8 (13.3%) of 60 treated patients experienced one or more infusion reactions, with 4 of 22 
(18.2%) in the q8 week and 3 of 23 (13.0%) in the q12 week treatment maintenance group. No serious 
infusion reactions were reported. All infusion reactions were mild or moderate in intensity. 
Immunogenicity 
Antibodies to infliximab were detected in 4 (7.7%) patients through week 54. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
Infections were reported in 31 (51.7%) of 60 treated patients in C0168T72 and 22 (36.7%) required 
oral or parenteral antimicrobial treatment. The proportion of patients with infections in C0168T72 was 
similar to that in the paediatric Crohn’s disease study (REACH) but higher than the proportion in the 
adults ulcerative colitis studies (ACT 1 and ACT 2). The overall incidence of infections in C0168T72 
was 13/22 (59%) in the every 8 week maintenance treatment group and 14/23 (60.9%) in the every 
12 week maintenance treatment group. Upper respiratory tract infection (7/60 [12%]) and pharyngitis 
(5/60 [8%]) were the most frequently reported respiratory system infections. Serious infections were 
reported in 12% (7/60) of all treated patients. 
In this study, there were more patients in the 12 to 17 year age group than in the 6 to 11 year age group 
(45/60 [75.0%]) vs.15/60 [25.0%]). While the numbers of patients in each subgroup are too small to 
make any definitive conclusions about the effect of age on safety events, there were higher proportions 
of patients with serious adverse events and discontinuation due to adverse events in the younger age 
group than in the older age group. While the proportion of patients with infections was also higher in 
the younger age group, for serious infections, the proportions were similar in the two age groups. 
Overall proportions of adverse events and infusion reactions were similar between the 6 to 11 and 12 
to 17 year age groups. 
Post-marketing experience 
Post-marketing spontaneous serious adverse reactions with infliximab in the paediatric population 
have included malignancies including hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas, transient hepatic enzyme 
abnormalities, lupus-like syndromes, and positive auto-antibodies (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Other special populations 
Elderly 
In rheumatoid arthritis clinical studies, the incidence of serious infections was greater in infliximab 
plus methotrexate-treated patients 65 years and older (11.3%) than in those under 65 years of age 
(4.6%). In patients treated with methotrexate alone, the incidence of serious infections was 5.2% in 
patients 65 years and older compared to 2.7% in patients under 65 (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No case of overdose has been reported. Single doses up to 20 mg/kg have been administered without 
toxic effects. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunosuppressants, tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB02 
Remsima is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanism of action 
Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to both 
soluble and transmembrane forms of TNFα but not to lymphotoxin α (TNFβ). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Infliximab inhibits the functional activity of TNFα in a wide variety of in vitro bioassays. Infliximab 
prevented disease in transgenic mice that develop polyarthritis as a result of constitutive expression of 
human TNFα and when administered after disease onset, it allowed eroded joints to heal. In vivo, 
infliximab rapidly forms stable complexes with human TNFα, a process that parallels the loss of TNFα 
bioactivity.  
Elevated concentrations of TNFα have been found in the joints of rheumatoid arthritis patients and 
correlate with elevated disease activity. In rheumatoid arthritis, treatment with infliximab reduced 
infiltration of inflammatory cells into inflamed areas of the joint as well as expression of molecules 
mediating cellular adhesion, chemoattraction and tissue degradation. After infliximab treatment, 
patients exhibited decreased levels of serum interleukin 6 (IL-6) and C-reactive protein (CRP), and 
increased haemoglobin levels in rheumatoid arthritis patients with reduced haemoglobin levels, 
compared with baseline. Peripheral blood lymphocytes further showed no significant decrease in 
number or in proliferative responses to in vitro mitogenic stimulation when compared with untreated 
patients’ cells. In psoriasis patients, treatment with infliximab resulted in decreases in epidermal 
inflammation and normalisation of keratinocyte differentiation in psoriatic plaques. In psoriatic 
arthritis, short term treatment with infliximab reduced the number of T-cells and blood vessels in the 
synovium and psoriatic skin. 
Histological evaluation of colonic biopsies, obtained before and 4 weeks after administration of 
infliximab, revealed a substantial reduction in detectable TNFα. Infliximab treatment of Crohn’s 
disease patients was also associated with a substantial reduction of the commonly elevated serum 
inflammatory marker, CRP. Total peripheral white blood cell counts were minimally affected in 
infliximab-treated patients, although changes in lymphocytes, monocytes and neutrophils reflected 
shifts towards normal ranges. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from infliximab-treated 
patients showed undiminished proliferative responsiveness to stimuli compared with untreated 
patients, and no substantial changes in cytokine production by stimulated PBMC were observed 
following treatment with infliximab. Analysis of lamina propria mononuclear cells obtained by biopsy 
of the intestinal mucosa showed that infliximab treatment caused a reduction in the number of cells 
capable of expressing TNFα and interferon γ. Additional histological studies provided evidence that 
treatment with infliximab reduces the infiltration of inflammatory cells into affected areas of the 
intestine and the presence of inflammation markers at these sites. Endoscopic studies of intestinal 
mucosa have shown evidence of mucosal healing in infliximab-treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Adult rheumatoid arthritis 
The efficacy of infliximab was assessed in two multicentre, randomised, double-blind, pivotal clinical 
studies: ATTRACT and ASPIRE. In both studies concurrent use of stable doses of folic acid, oral 
corticosteroids (≤10 mg/day) and/or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) was permitted. 
The primary endpoints were the reduction of signs and symptoms as assessed by the American 
College of Rheumatology criteria (ACR20 for ATTRACT, landmark ACR-N for ASPIRE), the 
prevention of structural joint damage, and the improvement in physical function. A reduction in signs 
and symptoms was defined to be at least a 20% improvement (ACR20) in both tender and swollen 
joint counts, and in 3 of the following 5 criteria: (1) evaluator’s global assessment, (2) patient’s global 
assessment, (3) functional/disability measure, (4) visual analogue pain scale and (5) erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein. ACR-N uses the same criteria as the ACR20, calculated by 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
taking the lowest percent improvement in swollen joint count, tender joint count, and the median of 
the remaining 5 components of the ACR response. Structural joint damage (erosions and joint space 
narrowing) in both hands and feet was measured by the change from baseline in the total van der 
Heijde-modified Sharp score (0-440). The Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ; scale 0-3) was 
used to measure patients’ average change from baseline scores over time, in physical function. 
The ATTRACT study evaluated responses at 30, 54 and 102 weeks in a placebo-controlled study of 
428 patients with active rheumatoid arthritis despite treatment with methotrexate. Approximately 50% 
of patients were in functional Class III. Patients received placebo, 3 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg infliximab at 
weeks 0, 2 and 6, and then every 4 or 8 weeks thereafter. All patients were on stable methotrexate 
doses (median 15 mg/wk) for 6 months prior to enrolment and were to remain on stable doses 
throughout the study. 
Results from week 54 (ACR20, total van der Heijde-modified Sharp score and HAQ) are shown in 
Table 3. Higher degrees of clinical response (ACR50 and ACR70) were observed in all infliximab 
groups at 30 and 54 weeks compared with methotrexate alone. 
A reduction in the rate of the progression of structural joint damage (erosions and joint space 
narrowing) was observed in all infliximab groups at 54 weeks (Table 3). 
The effects observed at 54 weeks were maintained through 102 weeks. Due to a number of treatment 
withdrawals, the magnitude of the effect difference between infliximab and the methotrexate alone 
group cannot be defined. 
Table 3 
Effects on ACR20, Structural Joint Damage and Physical Function at week 54, ATTRACT 
Controla 
3 mg/kg 
q 8 wks 
36/86 
(42%) 
3 mg/kg 
q 4 wks 
41/86 
(48%) 
Infliximabb 
10 mg/kg 
q 8 wks 
51/87 
(59%) 
10 mg/kg 
q 4 wks 
48/81 
(59%) 
All 
infliximabb 
176/340 
(52%) 
1.6 ± 8.5 
1.3 ± 6.0 
15/88 
(17%) 
Patients with ACR20 
response/Patients 
evaluated (%) 
Total scored (van der Heijde-modified Sharp score) 
Change from baseline 
(Mean ± SDc) 
Median 
(Interquartile range) 
Patients with no 
deterioration/patients 
evaluated (%)c 
HAQ change from 
baseline over timee 
(patients evaluated) 
Mean ± SDc 
a  control = All patients had active RA despite treatment with stable methotrexate doses for 6 
7.0 ± 
10.3 
4.0 
(0.5,9.7) 
13/64 
(20%) 
0.5 
(-1.5,2.0) 
37/77 
(48%) 
0.5 
(-1.5,3.0) 
34/71 
(48%) 
-0.5 
(-3.0,1.5) 
44/66 
(67%) 
0.1 
(-2.5,3.0) 
35/71 
(49%) 
-0.7 ± 3.8 
0.2 ± 0.3  
0.2 ± 3.6 
339 
81 
86 
87 
87 
85 
0.6 ± 5.9 
0.0 
(-1.8,2.0) 
150/285 
(53%) 
0.4 ± 0.3   0.5 ± 0.4   0.5 ± 0.5   0.4 ± 0.4   0.4 ± 0.4  
months prior to enrolment and were to remain on stable doses throughout the study. Concurrent 
use of stable doses of oral corticosteroids (≤10 mg/day) and/or NSAIDs was permitted, and 
folate supplementation was given. 
b  all infliximab doses given in combination with methotrexate and folate with some on 
corticosteroids and/or NSAIDs 
c  p <0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs. control 
d  greater values indicate more joint damage. 
e  HAQ = Health Assessment Questionnaire; greater values indicate less disability. 
The ASPIRE study evaluated responses at 54 weeks in 1,004 methotrexate naive patients with early 
(≤3 years disease duration, median 0.6 years) active rheumatoid arthritis (median swollen and tender 
joint count of 19 and 31, respectively). All patients received methotrexate (optimised to 20 mg/wk by 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
week 8) and either placebo, 3 mg/kg or 6 mg/kg infliximab at weeks 0, 2, and 6 and every 8 weeks 
thereafter. Results from week 54 are shown in Table 4. 
After 54 weeks of treatment, both doses of infliximab + methotrexate resulted in statistically 
significantly greater improvement in signs and symptoms compared to methotrexate alone as 
measured by the proportion of patients achieving ACR20, 50 and 70 responses. 
In ASPIRE, more than 90% of patients had at least two evaluable X-rays. Reduction in the rate of 
progression of structural damage was observed at weeks 30 and 54 in the infliximab + methotrexate 
groups compared to methotrexate alone. 
Table 4 
Effects on ACRn, Structural Joint Damage and Physical Function at week 54, ASPIRE 
Infliximab + MTX 
3 mg/kg 
6 mg/kg 
Combined 
Placebo 
+ MTX 
282 
359 
363 
24.8 ± 59.7 
Subjects randomised 
Percentage ACR improvement 
Mean ± SDa 
37.3 ± 52.8 
Change from baseline in total van der Heijde-modified Sharp scoreb 
Mean ± SDa 
0.42 ± 5.82 
3.70 ± 9.61 
0.00 
0.43 
Median 
Improvement from baseline in HAQ averaged over time from week 30 to week 54c 
Mean ± SDd 
0.88 ± 0.65 
a 
b 
c  HAQ = Health Assessment Questionnaire; greater values indicate less disability. 
d 
 p <0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs control. 
greater values indicate more joint damage. 
0.51 ± 5.55 
0.00 
0.68 ± 0.63 
0.80 ± 0.65 
42.0 ± 47.3 
722 
39.6 ± 50.1 
0.46 ± 5.68 
0.00 
0.84 ± 0.65 
p = 0.030 and <0.001 for the 3 mg/kg and 6 mg/kg treatment groups respectively vs. placebo + 
MTX. 
Data to support dose titration in rheumatoid arthritis come from ATTRACT, ASPIRE and the START 
study. START was a randomised, multicentre, double-blind, 3-arm, parallel-group safety study. In one 
of the study arms (group 2, n=329), patients with an inadequate response were allowed to dose titrate 
with 1.5 mg/kg increments from 3 up to 9 mg/kg. The majority (67%) of these patients did not require 
any dose titration. Of the patients who required a dose titration, 80% achieved clinical response and 
the majority (64%) of these required only one adjustment of 1.5 mg/kg. 
Adult Crohn’s disease 
Induction treatment in moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease 
The efficacy of a single dose treatment with infliximab was assessed in 108 patients with active 
Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) ≥220 ≤400) in a randomised, 
double-blinded, placebo-controlled, dose-response study. Of these 108 patients, 27 were treated with 
the recommended dosage of infliximab 5 mg/kg. All patients had experienced an inadequate response 
to prior conventional therapies. Concurrent use of stable doses of conventional therapies was 
permitted, and 92% of patients continued to receive these therapies. 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who experienced a clinical response, defined as a 
decrease in CDAI by ≥70 points from baseline at the 4-week evaluation and without an increase in the 
use of medicinal products or surgery for Crohn’s disease. Patients who responded at week 4 were 
followed to week 12. Secondary endpoints included the proportion of patients in clinical remission at 
week 4 (CDAI <150) and clinical response over time. 
At week 4, following administration of a single dose, 22/27 (81%) of infliximab-treated patients 
receiving a 5 mg/kg dose achieved a clinical response vs. 4/25 (16%) of the placebo-treated patients 
(p <0.001). Also at week 4, 13/27 (48%) of infliximab-treated patients achieved a clinical remission 
(CDAI <150) vs. 1/25 (4%) of placebo-treated patients. A response was observed within 2 weeks, with 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a maximum response at 4 weeks. At the last observation at 12 weeks, 13/27 (48%) of 
infliximab-treated patients were still responding. 
Maintenance treatment in moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in adults 
The efficacy of repeated infusions with infliximab was studied in a 1-year clinical study (ACCENT I). 
A total of 573 patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CDAI ≥220 ≤400) received 
a single infusion of 5 mg/kg at week 0. 178 of the 580 enrolled patients (30.7%) were defined as 
having severe disease (CDAI score > 300 and concomitant corticosteroid and/or immunosuppressants) 
corresponding to the population defined in the indication (see section 4.1). At week 2, all patients were 
assessed for clinical response and randomised to one of 3 treatment groups; a placebo maintenance 
group, 5 mg/kg maintenance group and 10 mg/kg maintenance group. All 3 groups received repeated 
infusions at week 2, 6 and every 8 weeks thereafter. 
Of the 573 patients randomised, 335 (58%) achieved clinical response by week 2. These patients were 
classified as week-2 responders and were included in the primary analysis (see Table 5). Among 
patients classified as non-responders at week 2, 32% (26/81) in the placebo maintenance group and 
42% (68/163) in the infliximab group achieved clinical response by week 6. There was no difference 
between groups in the number of late responders thereafter. 
The co-primary endpoints were the proportion of patients in clinical remission (CDAI <150) at 
week 30 and time to loss of response through week 54. Corticosteroid tapering was permitted after 
week 6. 
Table 5 
Effects on response and remission rate, data from ACCENT I (Week-2 responders) 
ACCENT I (Week-2 responders) 
% of Patients 
Placebo 
Maintenance 
(n=110) 
19 weeks 
27.3 
20.9 
Median time to loss of response 
through week 54 
Week 30 
Clinical Responsea 
Clinical Remission 
Steroid-Free Remission 
10.7 (6/56) 
Week 54 
Clinical Responsea 
Clinical Remission 
15.5 
13.6 
Infliximab 
Maintenance 
5 mg/kg 
(n=113) 
(p value) 
38 weeks 
(0.002) 
51.3 
(<0.001) 
38.9 
(0.003) 
31.0 (18/58) 
(0.008) 
Infliximab 
Maintenance 
10 mg/kg 
(n=112) 
(p value) 
>54 weeks 
(<0.001) 
59.1 
(<0.001) 
45.5 
(<0.001) 
36.8 (21/57) 
(0.001) 
38.1 
(<0.001) 
28.3 
(0.007) 
17.9 (10/56) 
(0.075) 
47.7 
(<0.001) 
38.4 
(<0.001) 
28.6 (16/56) 
(0.002) 
Sustained Steroid-Free 
Remissionb 
a  Reduction in CDAI ≥25% and ≥70 points. 
b   CDAI <150 at both Week 30 and 54 and not receiving corticosteroids in the 3 months prior to 
5.7 (3/53) 
Week 54 among patients who were receiving corticosteroids at baseline. 
Beginning at week 14, patients who had responded to treatment, but subsequently lost their clinical 
benefit, were allowed to cross over to a dose of infliximab 5 mg/kg higher than the dose to which they 
were originally randomised. Eighty nine percent (50/56) of patients who lost clinical response on 
infliximab 5 mg/kg maintenance therapy after week 14 responded to treatment with infliximab 
10 mg/kg. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improvements in quality of life measures, a reduction in disease-related hospitalisations and 
corticosteroid use were seen in the infliximab maintenance groups compared with the placebo 
maintenance group at weeks 30 and 54. 
Infliximab with or without AZA was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, active comparator study 
(SONIC) of 508 adult patients with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease (CDAI ≥220 ≤450) who were 
naive to biologics and immunosuppressants and had a median disease duration of 2.3 years. At 
baseline 27.4% of patients were receiving systemic corticosteroids, 14.2% of patients were receiving 
budesonide, and 54.3% of patients were receiving 5-ASA compounds. Patients were randomised to 
receive AZA monotherapy, infliximab monotherapy, or infliximab plus AZA combination therapy. 
Infliximab was administered at a dose of 5 mg/kg at weeks 0, 2, 6, and then every 8 weeks. AZA was 
given at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg daily. 
The primary endpoint of the study was corticosteroid-free clinical remission at week 26, defined as 
patients in clinical remission (CDAI of <150) who, for at least 3 weeks, had not taken oral systemic 
corticosteroids (prednisone or equivalent) or budesonide at a dose >6 mg/day. For results see Table 6. 
The proportions of patients with mucosal healing at week 26 were significantly greater in the 
infliximab plus AZA combination (43.9%, p<0.001) and infliximab monotherapy groups (30.1%, 
p=0.023) compared to the AZA monotherapy group (16.5%). 
Table 6 
Percent of patients achieving corticosteroid-free clinical remission at Week 26, SONIC 
AZA 
Monotherapy 
Infliximab 
Monotherapy 
Infliximab + AZA 
Combination therapy 
Week 26 
All randomised patients 
30.0% 
(51/170) 
44.4% (75/169) 
(p=0.006)* 
56.8% (96/169) 
(p<0.001)* 
*  p-values represent each infliximab treatment group vs. AZA monotherapy. 
Similar trends in the achievement of corticosteroid-free clinical remission were observed at week 50. 
Furthermore, improved quality of life as measured by IBDQ was observed with infliximab. 
Induction treatment in fistulising active Crohn’s disease 
The efficacy was assessed in a randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study in 94 patients 
with fistulising Crohn’s disease who had fistulae that were of at least 3 months’ duration. Thirty one of 
these patients were treated with infliximab 5 mg/kg. Approximately 93% of the patients had 
previously received antibiotic or immunosuppressive therapy. 
Concurrent use of stable doses of conventional therapies was permitted, and 83% of patients continued 
to receive at least one of these therapies. Patients received three doses of either placebo or infliximab 
at weeks 0, 2 and 6. Patients were followed up to 26 weeks. The primary endpoint was the proportion 
of patients who experienced a clinical response, defined as ≥50% reduction from baseline in the 
number of fistulae draining upon gentle compression on at least two consecutive visits (4 weeks apart), 
without an increase in the use of medicinal products or surgery for Crohn’s disease. 
Sixty eight percent (21/31) of infliximab-treated patients receiving a 5 mg/kg dose regimen achieved a 
clinical response vs. 26% (8/31) placebo-treated patients (p=0.002). The median time to onset of 
response in the infliximab-treated group was 2 weeks. The median duration of response was 12 weeks. 
Additionally, closure of all fistulae was achieved in 55% of infliximab-treated patients compared with 
13% of placebo-treated patients (p=0.001). 
Maintenance treatment in fistulising active Crohn’s disease 
The efficacy of repeated infusions with infliximab in patients with fistulising Crohn’s disease was 
studied in a 1-year clinical study (ACCENT II). A total of 306 patients received 3 doses of infliximab 
5 mg/kg at week 0, 2 and 6. At baseline, 87% of the patients had perianal fistulae, 14% had abdominal 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fistulae, 9% had rectovaginal fistulae. The median CDAI score was 180. At week 14, 282 patients 
were assessed for clinical response and randomised to receive either placebo or 5 mg/kg infliximab 
every 8 weeks through week 46. 
Week-14 responders (195/282) were analysed for the primary endpoint, which was time from 
randomisation to loss of response (see Table 7). Corticosteroid tapering was permitted after week 6. 
Table 7 
Effects on response rate, data from ACCENT II (Week-14 responders) 
Placebo 
Maintenance 
(n=99) 
ACCENT II (Week-14 responders) 
Infliximab 
Maintenance 
(5 mg/kg) 
(n=96) 
>40 weeks 
p-value 
14 weeks 
Median time to loss of response 
through week 54 
Week 54 
Fistula Response (%)a 
Complete fistula response (%)b 
a  A ≥50% reduction from baseline in the number of draining fistulas over a period of ≥4 weeks. 
b  Absence of any draining fistulas. 
0.001 
0.009 
23.5 
19.4 
46.2 
36.3 
<0.001 
Beginning at week 22, patients who initially responded to treatment and subsequently lost their 
response were eligible to cross over to active re-treatment every 8 weeks at a dose of infliximab 
5 mg/kg higher than the dose to which they were originally randomised. Among patients in the 
infliximab 5 mg/kg group who crossed over because of loss of fistula response after week 22, 57% 
(12/21) responded to re-treatment with infliximab 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 
There was no significant difference between placebo and infliximab for the proportion of patients with 
sustained closure of all fistulas through week 54, for symptoms such as proctalgia, abscesses and 
urinary tract infection or for number of newly developed fistulas during treatment. 
Maintenance therapy with infliximab every 8 weeks significantly reduced disease-related 
hospitalisations and surgeries compared with placebo. Furthermore, a reduction in corticosteroid use 
and improvements in quality of life were observed. 
Adult ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of infliximab were assessed in two (ACT 1 and ACT 2) randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in adult patients with moderately to severely active 
ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12; Endoscopy subscore ≥2) with an inadequate response to 
conventional therapies [oral corticosteroids, aminosalicylates and/or immunomodulators (6-MP, 
AZA)]. Concomitant stable doses of oral aminosalicylates, corticosteroids, and/or immunomodulatory 
agents were permitted. In both studies, patients were randomised to receive either placebo, 5 mg/kg 
infliximab, or 10 mg/kg infliximab at weeks 0, 2, 6, 14 and 22, and in ACT 1 at weeks 30, 38 and 46. 
Corticosteroid taper was permitted after week 8. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
Effects on clinical response, clinical remission and mucosal healing at Weeks 8 and 30. 
Combined data from ACT 1 & 2 
Infliximab 
10 mg/kg 
242 
Placebo 
244 
5 mg/kg 
242 
19.3% 
66.9% 
49.6% 
65.3% 
55.4% 
33.2% 
27.9% 
Subjects randomised 
Percentage of subjects in clinical response and in sustained clinical response 
Clinical response at Week 8a 
Clinical response at Week 30a 
Sustained response (clinical 
response at both Week 8 and 
Week 30)a 
Percentage of subjects in clinical remission and sustained remission 
Clinical remission at Week 8a 
Clinical remission at Week 30a 
Sustained remission(in remission 
at both Week 8 and Week 30)a 
5.3% 
Percentage of subjects with mucosal healing 
Mucosal healing at Week 8a 
32.4% 
Mucosal healing at Week 30a 
27.5% 
a 
61.2% 
48.3% 
p <0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs. placebo. 
10.2% 
13.1% 
29.8% 
36.4% 
36.4% 
29.8% 
60.3% 
52.9% 
19.0% 
24.4% 
49.6% 
45.0% 
Combined 
484 
66.1% 
52.5% 
47.3% 
33.1% 
33.1% 
21.7% 
60.7% 
50.6% 
The efficacy of infliximab through week 54 was assessed in the ACT 1 study. 
At 54 weeks, 44.9% of patients in the combined infliximab treatment group were in clinical response 
compared to 19.8% in the placebo treatment group (p<0.001). Clinical remission and mucosal healing 
occurred in a greater proportion of patients in the combined infliximab treatment group compared to 
the placebo treatment group at week 54 (34.6% vs. 16.5%, p<0.001 and 46.1% vs. 18.2%, p<0.001, 
respectively). The proportions of patients in sustained response and sustained remission at week 54 
were greater in the combined infliximab treatment group than in the placebo treatment group (37.9% 
vs. 14.0%, p<0.001; and 20.2% vs. 6.6%, p<0.001, respectively). 
A greater proportion of patients in the combined infliximab treatment group were able to discontinue 
corticosteroids while remaining in clinical remission compared to the placebo treatment group at both 
week 30 (22.3% vs. 7.2%, p <0.001, pooled ACT 1 & ACT 2 data) and week 54 (21.0% vs. 8.9%, 
p=0.022, ACT 1 data). 
The pooled data analysis from the ACT 1 and ACT 2 studies and their extensions, analysed from 
baseline through 54 weeks, demonstrated a reduction of ulcerative colitis-related hospitalisations and 
surgical procedures with infliximab treatment. The number of ulcerative colitis-related hospitalisations 
was significantly lower in the 5 and 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment groups than in the placebo group 
(mean number of hospitalisations per 100 subject-years: 21 and 19 vs. 40 in the placebo group; 
p=0.019 and p=0.007, respectively). The number of ulcerative colitis-related surgical procedures was 
also lower in the 5 and 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment groups than in the placebo group (mean number 
of surgical procedures per 100 subject-years: 22 and 19 vs. 34; p=0.145 and p=0.022, respectively). 
The proportion of subjects who underwent colectomy at any time within 54 weeks following the first 
infusion of study agent were collected and pooled from the ACT 1 and ACT 2 studies and their 
extensions. Fewer subjects underwent colectomy in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group (28/242 or 11.6% 
[N.S.]) and the 10 mg/kg infliximab group (18/242 or 7.4% [p=0.011]) than in the placebo group 
(36/244; 14.8%). 
The reduction in incidence of colectomy was also examined in another randomised, double-blind study 
(C0168Y06) in hospitalised patients (n=45) with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis who 
failed to respond to intravenous corticosteroids and who were therefore at higher risk for colectomy. 
Significantly fewer colectomies occurred within 3 months of study infusion in patients who received a 
single dose of 5 mg/kg infliximab compared to patients who received placebo (29.2% vs. 66.7% 
respectively, p=0.017). 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In ACT 1 and ACT 2, infliximab improved quality of life, confirmed by statistically significant 
improvement in both a disease specific measure, IBDQ, and by improvement in the generic 36-item 
short form survey SF-36. 
Adult ankylosing spondylitis 
Efficacy and safety of infliximab were assessed in two multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity 
Index [BASDAI] score ≥ 4 and spinal pain ≥ 4 on a scale of 1-10). 
In the first study (P01522), which had a 3 month double-blind phase, 70 patients received either 
5 mg/kg infliximab or placebo at weeks 0, 2, 6 (35 patients in each group). At week 12, placebo 
patients were switched to infliximab 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks up to week 54. After the first year of the 
study, 53 patients continued into an open-label extension to week 102. 
In the second clinical study (ASSERT), 279 patients were randomised to receive either placebo 
(Group 1, n=78) or 5 mg/kg infliximab (Group 2, n=201) at 0, 2 and 6 weeks and every 6 weeks to 
week 24. Thereafter, all subjects continued on infliximab every 6 weeks to week 96. Group 1 received 
5 mg/kg infliximab. In Group 2, starting with the week 36 infusion, patients who had a BASDAI ≥3 at 
2 consecutive visits, received 7.5 mg/kg infliximab every 6 weeks thereafter through week 96. 
In ASSERT, improvement in signs and symptoms was observed as early as week 2. At week 24, the 
number of ASAS 20 responders was 15/78 (19%) in the placebo group, and 123/201 (61%) in the 
5 mg/kg infliximab group (p<0.001). There were 95 subjects from group 2 who continued on 5 mg/kg 
every 6 weeks. At 102 weeks there were 80 subjects still on infliximab treatment and among those, 71 
(89%) were ASAS 20 responders. 
In P01522, improvement in signs and symptoms was also observed as early as week 2. At week 12, 
the number of BASDAI 50 responders were 3/35 (9%) in the placebo group, and 20/35 (57%) in the 
5 mg/kg group (p<0.01). There were 53 subjects who continued on 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks. At 
102 weeks there were 49 subjects still on infliximab treatment and among those, 30 (61%) were 
BASDAI 50 responders. 
In both studies, physical function and quality of life as measured by the BASFI and the physical 
component score of the SF-36 were also improved significantly. 
Adult psoriatic arthritis 
Efficacy and safety were assessed in two multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in 
patients with active psoriatic arthritis. 
In the first clinical study (IMPACT), efficacy and safety of infliximab were studied in 104 patients 
with active polyarticular psoriatic arthritis. During the 16-week double-blind phase, patients received 
either 5 mg/kg infliximab or placebo at weeks 0, 2, 6, and 14 (52 patients in each group). Starting at 
week 16, placebo patients were switched to infliximab and all patients subsequently received 5 mg/kg 
infliximab every 8 weeks up to week 46. After the first year of the study, 78 patients continued into an 
open-label extension to week 98. 
In the second clinical study (IMPACT 2), efficacy and safety of infliximab were studied in 
200 patients with active psoriatic arthritis (≥5 swollen joints and ≥5 tender joints). Forty six percent of 
patients continued on stable doses of methotrexate (≤25 mg/week). During the 24-week double-blind 
phase, patients received either 5 mg/kg infliximab or placebo at weeks 0, 2, 6, 14, and 22 (100 patients 
in each group). At week 16, 47 placebo patients with <10% improvement from baseline in both 
swollen and tender joint counts were switched to infliximab induction (early escape). At week 24, all 
placebo-treated patients crossed over to infliximab induction. Dosing continued for all patients 
through week 46. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key efficacy results for IMPACT and IMPACT 2 are shown in Table 9 below: 
Table 9 
Effects on ACR and PASI in IMPACT and IMPACT 2 
Placebo 
(Week 16) 
52 
IMPACT 
Infliximab 
(Week 16) 
52 
Infliximab 
(Week 98) 
N/Aa 
Placebo 
(Week 24) 
100 
IMPACT 2* 
Infliximab 
(Week 24) 
100 
Infliximab 
(Week 54) 
100 
52 
52 
78 
100 
100 
100 
0 (0%) 
5 (10%) 
48 (62%) 
16 (16%) 
24 (46%) 
34 (65%) 
Patients 
randomised 
ACR response  
(% of 
patients) 
N 
  ACR 20 
response* 
  ACR 50 
response* 
  ACR 70 
response* 
PASI 
response 
(% of 
patients)b 
N 
  PASI 75 
response** 
* 
a  Week 98 data for IMPACT includes combined placebo crossover and infliximab patients who 
ITT-analysis where subjects with missing data were included as non-responders. 
15 (29%) 
27 (27%) 
54 (54%) 
50 (60%) 
41 (41%) 
35 (45%) 
27 (35%) 
0 (0%) 
4 (4%) 
1 (1%) 
2 (2%) 
20 (20%) 
53 (53%) 
33 (33%) 
83 
82 
87 
40 (48.8%) 
entered the open-label extension. 
b  Based on patients with PASI >2.5 at baseline for IMPACT, and patients with >3% BSA 
psoriasis skin involvement at baseline in IMPACT 2. 
**  PASI 75 response for IMPACT not included due to low N; p<0.001 for infliximab vs. placebo 
at week 24 for IMPACT 2. 
In IMPACT and IMPACT 2, clinical responses were observed as early as week 2 and were maintained 
through week 98 and week 54, respectively. Efficacy has been demonstrated with or without 
concomitant use of methotrexate. Decreases in parameters of peripheral activity characteristic of 
psoriatic arthritis (such as number of swollen joints, number of painful/tender joints, dactylitis and 
presence of enthesopathy) were seen in the infliximab-treated patients. 
Radiographic changes were assessed in IMPACT 2. Radiographs of hands and feet were collected at 
baseline, weeks 24 and 54. Infliximab treatment reduced the rate of progression of peripheral joint 
damage compared with placebo treatment at the week 24 primary endpoint as measured by change 
from baseline in total modified vdH-S score (mean ± SD score was 0.82 ± 2.62 in the placebo group 
compared with -0.70 ± 2.53 in the infliximab group; p<0.001). In the infliximab group, the mean 
change in total modified vdH-S score remained below 0 at the week 54 timepoint. 
Infliximab-treated patients demonstrated significant improvement in physical function as assessed by 
HAQ. Significant improvements in health-related quality of life were also demonstrated as measured 
by the physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 in IMPACT 2. 
Adult psoriasis 
The efficacy of infliximab was assessed in two multicentre, randomised, double-blind studies: SPIRIT 
and EXPRESS. Patients in both studies had plaque psoriasis (Body Surface Area [BSA] ≥10% and 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriasis Area and Severity Index [PASI] score ≥12). The primary endpoint in both studies was the 
percent of patients who achieved ≥75% improvement in PASI from baseline at week 10. 
SPIRIT evaluated the efficacy of infliximab induction therapy in 249 patients with plaque psoriasis 
that had previously received PUVA or systemic therapy. Patients received either 3 or 5 mg/kg 
infliximab or placebo infusions at weeks 0, 2 and 6. Patients with a PGA score ≥3 were eligible to 
receive an additional infusion of the same treatment at week 26. 
In SPIRIT, the proportion of patients achieving PASI 75 at week 10 was 71.7% in the 3 mg/kg 
infliximab group, 87.9% in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group, and 5.9% in the placebo group (p<0.001). 
By week 26, twenty weeks after the last induction dose, 30% of patients in the 5 mg/kg group and 
13.8% of patients in the 3 mg/kg group were PASI 75 responders. Between weeks 6 and 26, symptoms 
of psoriasis gradually returned with a median time to disease relapse of >20 weeks. No rebound was 
observed. 
EXPRESS evaluated the efficacy of infliximab induction and maintenance therapy in 378 patients 
with plaque psoriasis. Patients received 5 mg/kg infliximab- or placebo-infusions at weeks 0, 2 and 6 
followed by maintenance therapy every 8 weeks through week 22 in the placebo group and through 
week 46 in the infliximab group. At week 24, the placebo group crossed over to infliximab induction 
therapy (5 mg/kg) followed by infliximab maintenance therapy (5 mg/kg). Nail psoriasis was assessed 
using the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI). Prior therapy with PUVA, methotrexate, ciclosporin, 
or acitretin had been received by 71.4% of patients, although they were not necessarily therapy 
resistant. Key results are presented in Table 10. In infliximab treated subjects, significant PASI 50 
responses were apparent at the first visit (week 2) and PASI 75 responses by the second visit (week 6). 
Efficacy was similar in the subgroup of patients that were exposed to previous systemic therapies 
compared to the overall study population. 
Table 10 
Summary of PASI response, PGA response and percent of patients with all nails cleared at 
Weeks 10, 24 and 50. EXPRESS 
Placebo → Infliximab 
5 mg/kg 
(at week 24) 
Infliximab 
5 mg/kg 
Week 10 
N 
≥90% improvement 
≥75% improvement  
≥50% improvement 
PGA of cleared (0) or minimal (1) 
PGA of cleared (0), minimal (1), or 
mild (2) 
Week 24 
N 
≥90% improvement 
≥75% improvement  
≥50% improvement 
PGA of cleared (0) or minimal (1) 
PGA of cleared (0), minimal (1), or 
mild (2) 
Week 50 
N 
≥90% improvement 
≥75% improvement  
≥50% improvement 
PGA of cleared (0) or minimal (1) 
PGA of cleared (0), minimal (1), or 
mild (2) 
77 
1 (1.3%) 
2 (2.6%) 
6 (7.8%) 
3 (3.9%) 
14 (18.2%) 
77 
1 (1.3%) 
3 (3.9%) 
5 (6.5%) 
2 (2.6%) 
15 (19.5%) 
68 
34 (50.0%) 
52 (76.5%) 
61 (89.7%) 
46 (67.6%) 
59 (86.8%) 
33 
301 
172 (57.1%) a 
242 (80.4%) a 
274 (91.0%) 
242 (82.9%) ab 
275 (94.2%) ab 
276 
161 (58.3%) a 
227 (82.2%) a 
248 (89.9%) 
203 (73.6%) a 
246 (89.1%) a 
281 
127 (45.2%) 
170 (60.5%) 
193 (68.7%) 
149 (53.0%) 
189 (67.3%) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Placebo → Infliximab 
5 mg/kg 
(at week 24) 
Infliximab 
5 mg/kg 
All nails clearedc  
Week 10 
Week 24 
Week 50 
a 
b 
c  Analysis was based on subjects with nail psoriasis at baseline (81.8% of subjects). Mean 
1/65(1.5%) 
3/65 (4.6%) 
27/64 (42.2%) 
p <0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs. control. 
n = 292. 
16/235 (6.8%) 
58/223 (26.0%) a 
92/226 (40.7%) 
baseline NAPSI scores were 4.6 and 4.3 in infliximab and placebo group. 
Significant improvements from baseline were demonstrated in DLQI (p<0.001) and the physical and 
mental component scores of the SF 36 (p<0.001 for each component comparison).  
Paediatric population 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease (6 to 17 years) 
In the REACH study, 112 patients (6 to 17 years, median age 13.0 years) with moderate to severe, 
active Crohn’s disease (median paediatric CDAI of 40) and an inadequate response to conventional 
therapies were to receive 5 mg/kg infliximab at weeks 0, 2, and 6. All patients were required to be on a 
stable dose of 6-MP, AZA or MTX (35% were also receiving corticosteroids at baseline). Patients 
assessed by the investigator to be in clinical response at week 10 were randomised and received 
5 mg/kg infliximab at either q8 weeks or q12 weeks as a maintenance treatment regimen. If response 
was lost during maintenance treatment, crossing over to a higher dose (10 mg/kg) and/or shorter 
dosing interval (q8 weeks) was allowed. Thirty two (32) evaluable paediatric patients crossed over 
(9 subjects in the q8 weeks and 23 subjects in the q12 weeks maintenance groups). Twenty four of 
these patients (75.0%) regained clinical response after crossing over. 
The proportion of subjects in clinical response at week 10 was 88.4% (99/112). The proportion of 
subjects achieving clinical remission at week 10 was 58.9% (66/112). 
At week 30, the proportion of subjects in clinical remission was higher in the q8 week (59.6%, 31/52) 
than the q12 week maintenance treatment group (35.3%, 18/51; p=0.013). At week 54, the figures 
were 55.8% (29/52) and 23.5% (12/51) in the q8 weeks and q12 weeks maintenance groups, 
respectively (p < 0.001). 
Data about fistulas were derived from PCDAI scores. Of the 22 subjects that had fistulas at baseline, 
63.6% (14/22), 59.1% (13/22) and 68.2% (15/22) were in complete fistula response at week 10, 30 and 
54, respectively, in the combined q8 weeks and q12 weeks maintenance groups. 
In addition, statistically and clinically significant improvements in quality of life and height, as well as 
a significant reduction in corticosteroid use, were observed versus baseline. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis (6 to 17 years) 
The safety and efficacy of infliximab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, open-label, 
parallel-group clinical study (C0168T72) in 60 paediatric patients aged 6 through 17 years (median 
age 14.5 years) with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score of 6 to 12; 
endoscopic subscore ≥ 2) with an inadequate response to conventional therapies. At baseline 53% of 
patients were receiving immunomodulator therapy (6-MP, AZA and/or MTX) and 62% of patients 
were receiving corticosteroids. Discontinuation of immunomodulators and corticosteroid taper were 
permitted after week 0. 
All patients received an induction regimen of 5 mg/kg infliximab at weeks 0, 2, and 6. Patients who 
did not respond to infliximab at week 8 (n=15) received no further medicinal product and returned for 
safety follow-up. At week 8, 45 patients were randomised and received 5 mg/kg infliximab at either 
q8 weeks or q12 weeks as a maintenance treatment regimen. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of patients in clinical response at week 8 was 73.3% (44/60). Clinical response at week 
8 was similar between those with or without concomitant immunomodulator use at baseline. Clinical 
remission at week 8 was 33.3% (17/51) as measured by the Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis Activity 
Index (PUCAI) score. 
At week 54, the proportion of patients in clinical remission as measured by the PUCAI score was 38% 
(8/21) in the q8 week maintenance group and 18% (4/22) in the q12 week maintenance treatment 
group. For patients receiving corticosteroids at baseline, the proportion of patients in remission and not 
receiving corticosteroids at week 54 was 38.5% (5/13) for the q8 week and 0% (0/13) for the 
q12 week maintenance treatment group. 
In this study, there were more patients in the 12 to 17 year age group than in the 6 to 11 year age 
group (45/60 vs.15/60). While the numbers of patients in each subgroup are too small to draw 
definitive conclusions about the effect of age, there was a higher number of patients in the younger age 
group who stepped up in dose or discontinued treatment due to inadequate efficacy. 
Other paediatric indications 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with the 
reference medicinal product containing infliximab in all subsets of the paediatric population in 
rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis 
and Crohn's disease (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Single intravenous infusions of 1, 3, 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg of infliximab yielded dose proportional 
increases in the maximum serum concentration (Cmax) and area under the concentration-time curve 
(AUC). The volume of distribution at steady state (median Vd of 3.0 to 4.1 litres) was not dependent 
on the administered dose and indicated that infliximab is predominantly distributed within the vascular 
compartment. No time-dependency of the Pharmacokinetics was observed. The elimination pathways 
for infliximab have not been characterised. Unchanged infliximab was not detected in urine. No major 
age- or weight-related differences in clearance or volume of distribution were observed in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients. The pharmacokinetics of infliximab in elderly patients has not been studied. Studies 
have not been performed in patients with liver or renal disease. 
At single doses of 3, 5, or 10 mg/kg, the median Cmax values were 77, 118 and 277 micrograms/mL, 
respectively. The median terminal half-life at these doses ranged from 8 to 9.5 days. In most patients, 
infliximab could be detected in the serum for at least 8 weeks after the recommended single dose of 
5 mg/kg for Crohn’s disease and the rheumatoid arthritis maintenance dose of 3 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 
Repeated administration of infliximab (5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks in fistulising Crohn’s disease, 3 or 
10 mg/kg every 4 or 8 weeks in rheumatoid arthritis) resulted in a slight accumulation of infliximab in 
serum after the second dose. No further clinically relevant accumulation was observed. In most 
fistulising Crohn’s disease patients, infliximab was detected in serum for 12 weeks (range 4-28 weeks) 
after administration of the regimen. 
Paediatric population 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis based on data obtained from patients with ulcerative colitis 
(N=60), Crohn’s disease (N=112), juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (N=117) and Kawasaki disease 
(N=16) with an overall age range from 2 months to 17 years indicated that exposure to infliximab was 
dependent on body weight in a non-linear way. Following administration of 5 mg/kg infliximab every 
8 weeks, the predicted median steady-state infliximab exposure (area under concentration-time curve 
at steady state, AUCss) in paediatric patients aged 6 years to 17 years was approximately 20% lower 
than the predicted median steady-state medicinal product exposure in adults. The median AUCss in 
paediatric patients aged 2 years to less than 6 years was predicted to be approximately 40% lower than 
that in adults, although the number of patients supporting this estimate is limited. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Infliximab does not cross react with TNFα from species other than human and chimpanzees. Therefore, 
conventional preclinical safety data with infliximab are limited. In a developmental toxicity study 
conducted in mice using an analogous antibody that selectively inhibits the functional activity of 
mouse TNFα, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. In a 
fertility and general reproductive function study, the number of pregnant mice was reduced following 
administration of the same analogous antibody. It is not known whether this finding was due to effects 
on the males and/or the females. In a 6-month repeated dose toxicity study in mice, using the same 
analogous antibody against mouse TNFα, crystalline deposits were observed on the lens capsule of 
some of the treated male mice. No specific ophthalmologic examinations have been performed in 
patients to investigate the relevance of this finding for humans. 
Long-term studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of infliximab. 
Studies in mice deficient in TNFα demonstrated no increase in tumours when challenged with known 
tumour initiators and/or promoters. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sucrose 
Polysorbate 80 
Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate 
Disodium phosphate dihydrate  
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Before reconstitution: 
5 years at 2°C – 8°C. 
Remsima may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to 6 
months, but not exceeding the original expiry date. The new expiry date must be written on the carton. 
Upon removal from refrigerated storage, Remsima must not be returned to refrigerated storage. 
After reconstitution and dilution: 
Chemical and physical in use stability of the diluted solution has been demonstrated for up to 60 days 
at 2 °C to 8 °C and for an additional 24 hours at 25°C after removal from refrigeration. From a 
microbiological point of view, the infusion solution should be administered immediately, in use 
storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and would normally not be 
longer than 24 hours at 2°C – 8°C, unless reconstitution/dilution has been taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
For storage conditions up to 25°C before reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type 1 glass vial with a (butyl) rubber stopper and an aluminium seal with a flip-off button. 
Pack sizes of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
The dose and the number of Remsima vials have to be calculated. Each Remsima vial contains 
100 mg infliximab. The required total volume of reconstituted Remsima solution has to be 
calculated. 
Under aseptic conditions, each Remsima vial should be reconstituted with 10 mL of water for 
injections, using a syringe equipped with a 21-gauge (0.8 mm) or smaller needle. The flip-top 
from the vial has to be removed and the top has to be wiped with a 70% alcohol swab. The 
syringe needle should be inserted into the vial through the centre of the rubber stopper and the 
stream of water for injections directed to the glass wall of the vial. The solution has to be gently 
swirled by rotating the vial to dissolve the powder. Prolonged or vigorous agitation must be 
avoided. THE VIAL MUST NOT BE SHAKEN. Foaming of the solution on reconstitution may 
occur. The reconstituted solution should stand for 5 minutes. The solution should be colourless 
to light yellow and opalescent. The solution may develop a few fine translucent particles, as 
infliximab is a protein. The solution must not be used if opaque particles, discolouration, or 
other foreign particles are present. 
The required volume of the reconstituted Remsima solution should be diluted to 250 mL with 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for infusion. Do not dilute the reconstituted Remsima 
solution with any other diluent. The dilution can be accomplished by withdrawing a volume of 
the sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for infusion from the 250-mL glass bottle or 
infusion bag equal to the volume of reconstituted Remsima. The required volume of 
reconstituted Remsima solution should slowly be added to the 250-mL infusion bottle or bag 
and gently be mixed. For volumes greater than 250 ml, either use a larger infusion bag (e.g. 
500 ml, 1000 ml) or use multiple 250 ml infusion bags to ensure that the concentration of the 
infusion solution does not exceed 4 mg/ml. If stored refrigerated after reconstitution and 
dilution, the infusion solution must be allowed to equilibrate at room temperature to 25 °C for 3 
hours prior to Step 4 (infusion). Storage beyond 24 hours at 2 °C - 8 °C applies to preparation of 
Remsima in the infusion bag only. 
The infusion solution has to be administered over a period of not less than the infusion time 
recommended (see section 4.2). Only an infusion set with an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low 
protein-binding filter (pore size 1.2 micrometre or less) should be used. Since no preservative is 
present, it is recommended that the administration of the solution for infusion is to be started as 
soon as possible and within 3 hours of reconstitution and dilution. If not used immediately, in 
use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and would 
normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C, unless reconstitution/dilution has been 
taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions (see section 6.3 above). Any unused 
portion of the infusion solution should not be stored for reuse. 
5. 
Remsima should be visually inspected for particulate matter or discolouration prior to 
administration. If visibly opaque particles, discolouration or foreign particles are observed it 
should not be used. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/853/001 
EU/1/13/853/002 
EU/1/13/853/003 
EU/1/13/853/004 
EU/1/13/853/005 
9.  DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 10 September 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 21 June 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each 1 mL single dose pre-filled syringe contains 120 mg of infliximab*. 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Each 1 mL single dose pre-filled pen contains 120 mg of infliximab*.  
* Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine IgG1 monoclonal antibody produced in murine hybridoma 
cells by recombinant DNA technology.  
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Sorbitol 45 mg per 1 mL  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection). 
Clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  THERAPEUTIC INDICATIONS 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Remsima, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as 
well as the improvement in physical function in:  
• 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs), including methotrexate, has been inadequate.  
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with 
methotrexate or other DMARDs.  
• 
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured by 
X-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1).  
Crohn’s disease 
Remsima is indicated for: 
• 
treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not 
responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such 
therapies. 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded despite 
a full and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment (including antibiotics, 
drainage and immunosuppressive therapy). 
• 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ulcerative colitis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 
6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis, in adult patients who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when 
the response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. 
Remsima should be administered 
• 
• 
in combination with methotrexate 
or alone in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom methotrexate is 
contraindicated. 
Infliximab has been shown to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to 
reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with 
polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1). 
Psoriasis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed 
to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including 
ciclosporin, methotrexate or psoralen ultra-violet A (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Remsima treatment is to be initiated and supervised by qualified physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Remsima is indicated. Patients treated with Remsima 
should be given the package leaflet and the patient reminder card. Instruction for use is provided in the 
package leaflet.  
For subsequent injections and after proper training in subcutaneous injection technique, patients may 
self-inject with Remsima if their physician determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-
up as necessary. Suitability of the patient for subcutaneous home use should be assessed and patients 
should be advised to inform their healthcare professional if they experience symptoms of an allergic 
reaction before administering the next dose. Patients should seek immediate medical attention if 
developing symptoms of serious allergic reactions (see section 4.4). 
During Remsima treatment, other concomitant therapies, e.g., corticosteroids and immunosuppressants 
should be optimised.  
It is important to check the product labels to ensure that the correct formulation (intravenous or 
subcutaneous) is being administered to the patient, as prescribed. Remsima subcutaneous formulation 
is not intended for intravenous administration and should be administered via a subcutaneous injection 
only. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Adults (≥18 years) 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Treatment with Remsima subcutaneous formulation should be initiated with loading doses of 
infliximab which may be intravenous or subcutaneous. When subcutaneous loading is used, Remsima 
120 mg should be given as a subcutaneous injection followed by additional subcutaneous injections at 
1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks after the first injection, then every 2 weeks thereafter. If intravenous loading doses 
of infliximab are given to initiate treatment, 2 intravenous infusions of infliximab 3 mg/kg should be 
given 2 weeks apart. The first treatment with Remsima administered subcutaneously should be 
initiated as maintenance therapy 4 weeks after the second intravenous administration. The 
recommended maintenance dose for Remsima subcutaneous formulation is 120 mg once every 2 
weeks.  
Remsima must be given concomitantly with methotrexate.  
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic 
benefit within the first 12 weeks of treatment (see section 5.1).  
Moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease 
Treatment with Remsima administered subcutaneously should be initiated as maintenance therapy 4 
weeks after the last administration of two intravenous infusions of infliximab 5 mg/kg given 2 weeks 
apart. The recommended dose for Remsima subcutaneous formulation is 120 mg once every 2 weeks. 
If a patient does not respond after 2 doses of intravenous infusions, no additional treatment with 
infliximab should be given. Available data do not support further infliximab treatment, in patients not 
responding within 6 weeks of the initial infusion. 
Fistulising, active Crohn’s disease 
Remsima 120 mg given as a subcutaneous injection 4 weeks after the last administration of two 
intravenous infusions of infliximab 5 mg/kg given 2 weeks apart. The recommended dose for 
Remsima subcutaneous formulation is 120 mg once every 2 weeks. If a patient does not respond after 
6 doses (i.e. 2 intravenous infusions and 4 subcutaneous injections), no additional treatment with 
infliximab should be given. 
In Crohn’s disease, experience with re-administration if signs and symptoms of disease recur is limited 
and comparative data on the benefit/risk of the alternative strategies for continued treatment are 
lacking. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Treatment with Remsima administered subcutaneously should be initiated as maintenance therapy 4 
weeks after the last administration of two intravenous infusions of infliximab 5 mg/kg given 2 weeks 
apart. The recommended dose for Remsima subcutaneous formulation is 120 mg once every 2 weeks.  
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 14 weeks of treatment, i.e. 
2 intravenous infusions and 4 subcutaneous injections (see section 5.1). Continued therapy should be 
carefully reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic benefit within this time period. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Treatment with Remsima administered subcutaneously should be initiated as maintenance therapy 4 
weeks after the last administration of two intravenous infusions of infliximab 5 mg/kg given 2 weeks 
apart. The recommended dose for Remsima subcutaneous formulation is 120 mg once every 2 weeks. 
If a patient does not respond by 6 weeks (i.e. after 2 intravenous infusions), no additional treatment 
with infliximab should be given. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment with Remsima administered subcutaneously should be initiated as maintenance therapy 4 
weeks after the last administration of two intravenous infusions of infliximab 5 mg/kg given 2 weeks 
apart. The recommended dose for Remsima subcutaneous formulation is 120 mg once every 2 weeks. 
Psoriasis 
Treatment with Remsima administered subcutaneously should be initiated as maintenance therapy 4 
weeks after the last administration of two intravenous infusions of infliximab 5 mg/kg given 2 weeks 
apart. The recommended dose for Remsima subcutaneous formulation is 120 mg once every 2 weeks. 
If a patient shows no response after 14 weeks (i.e. 2 intravenous infusions and 5 subcutaneous 
injections), no additional treatment with infliximab should be given. 
Re-administration for Crohn’s disease and rheumatoid arthritis 
From experience with intravenous infliximab, if the signs and symptoms of disease recur, infliximab 
can be re-administered within 16 weeks following the last administration. In clinical studies with 
intravenous infliximab, delayed hypersensitivity reactions have been uncommon and have occurred 
after infliximab-free intervals of less than 1 year (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The safety and efficacy of 
re-administration after an infliximab-free interval of more than 16 weeks has not been established. 
This applies to both Crohn’s disease patients and rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
Re-administration for ulcerative colitis 
From experience with intravenous infliximab, the safety and efficacy of re-administration, other than 
every 8 weeks, has not been established (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Re-administration for ankylosing spondylitis 
From experience with intravenous infliximab, the safety and efficacy of re-administration, other than 
every 6 to 8 weeks, has not been established (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Re-administration for psoriatic arthritis 
From experience with intravenous infliximab, the safety and efficacy of re-administration, other than 
every 8 weeks, has not been established (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Re-administration for psoriasis 
Limited experience from re-treatment with one single intravenous infliximab dose in psoriasis after an 
interval of 20 weeks suggests reduced efficacy and a higher incidence of mild to moderate infusion 
reactions when compared to the initial induction regimen (see section 5.1). 
Limited experience from re-treatment of intravenous infliximab following disease flare by a 
re-induction regimen suggests a higher incidence of infusion reactions, including serious ones, when 
compared to 8-weekly maintenance treatment of intravenous infliximab (see section 4.8). 
Re-administration across indications 
In case maintenance therapy is interrupted, and there is a need to restart treatment, use of a 
re-induction regimen of intravenous infliximab is not recommended (see section 4.8). In this situation, 
infliximab should be re-initiated as a single dose of intravenous infliximab followed by the 
maintenance dose recommendations of subcutaneous infliximab described above given 4 weeks after 
the last administration of intravenous infliximab. 
Switching to and from Remsima subcutaneous formulation across indications 
When switching from the maintenance therapy of infliximab intravenous formulation to the 
subcutaneous formulation of Remsima, the subcutaneous formulation may be administered 8 weeks 
after the last administration of the intravenous infusions of infliximab.  
There is insufficient information regarding the switching of patients who received the intravenous 
infusions of infliximab higher than 3 mg/kg for rheumatoid arthritis or 5 mg/kg for Crohn’s disease 
every 8 weeks to the subcutaneous formulation of Remsima. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information regarding switching patients from the subcutaneous formulation to the intravenous 
formulation of Remsima is not available.  
Missed dose 
If patients miss an injection of Remsima subcutaneous formulation, they should be instructed to take 
the missed dose immediately in case this happens within 7 days from the missed dose, and then remain 
on their original dosing schedule. If the dose is delayed by 8 days or more, the patients should be 
instructed to skip the missed dose, wait until their next scheduled dose, and then remain on their 
original dosing schedule. 
Special populations 
Elderly  
Specific studies of infliximab in elderly patients have not been conducted. No major age-related 
differences in clearance or volume of distribution were observed in clinical studies with infliximab 
intravenous formulations and the same is expected for subcutaneous formulation. No dose adjustment 
is required (see section 5.2). For more information about the safety of infliximab in elderly patients 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.8).  
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
Infliximab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be made 
(see section 5.2).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Remsima subcutaneous therapy in children aged below 18 years of age have 
not yet been established. No data are available. Therefore, subcutaneous use of Remsima is 
recommended for use only in adults. 
Method of administration  
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe or in pre-filled pen are administered by 
subcutaneous injection only. Full instructions for use are provided in the package leaflet. For the two 
initial intravenous infusions, patients may be pre-treated with, e.g., an antihistamine, hydrocortisone 
and/or paracetamol and infusion rate may be slowed in order to decrease the risk of infusion-related 
reactions especially if infusion-related reactions have occurred previously (see section 4.4). The 
physician should ensure appropriate follow-up of patients for any systemic injection reaction and 
localised injection site reaction after the initial subcutaneous injection is administered.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to other murine proteins or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1.  
Patients with tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, abscesses and opportunistic 
infections (see section 4.4).  
Patients with moderate or severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV) (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Systemic injection reaction/ localised injection site reaction/ hypersensitivity 
Infliximab has been associated with systemic injection reactions, anaphylactic shock and delayed 
hypersensitivity reactions (see section 4.8). 
Acute reactions including anaphylactic reactions may develop during (within seconds) or within a few 
hours following administration of infliximab. If acute reactions occur, medical treatment should be 
sought immediately. For this reason, the initial intravenous administrations should take place where 
emergency equipment, such as adrenaline, antihistamines, corticosteroids and an artificial airway is 
immediately available. Patients may be pre-treated with e.g., an antihistamine, hydrocortisone and/or 
paracetamol to prevent mild and transient effects.  
Localised injection site reactions predominantly of mild to moderate in nature included the following 
reactions limited to injection site: erythema, pain, pruritus, swelling, induration, bruising, haematoma, 
oedema, coldness, paraesthesia, haemorrhage, irritation, rash, ulcer, urticaria, application site vesicles 
and scab were reported to be associated with infliximab subcutaneous treatment. Most of these 
reactions may occur immediately or within 24 hours after subcutaneous injection. Most of these 
reactions resolved spontaneously without any treatment. 
Antibodies to infliximab may develop and have been associated with an increased frequency of 
infusion reactions when administered by intravenous infusion. A low proportion of the infusion 
reactions was serious allergic reactions. An association between development of antibodies to 
infliximab and reduced duration of response has also been observed with intravenously administered 
infliximab. Concomitant administration of immunomodulators has been associated with lower 
incidence of antibodies to infliximab and in the case of intravenously administered infliximab, a 
reduction in the frequency of infusion reactions. The effect of concomitant immunomodulator therapy 
was more profound in episodically-treated patients than in patients given maintenance therapy. 
Patients who discontinue immunosuppressants prior to or during infliximab treatment are at greater 
risk of developing these antibodies. Antibodies to infliximab cannot always be detected in serum 
samples. If serious reactions occur, symptomatic treatment must be given and further infliximab must 
not be administered (see section 4.8). 
In clinical studies, delayed hypersensitivity reactions have been reported. Available data suggest an 
increased risk for delayed hypersensitivity with increasing infliximab free interval. Patients should be 
advised to seek immediate medical advice if they experience any delayed adverse reaction (see section 
4.8). If patients are re-treated after a prolonged period, they must be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of delayed hypersensitivity. 
Infections 
Patients must be monitored closely for infections including tuberculosis before, during and after 
treatment with infliximab. Because the elimination of infliximab may take up to six months, 
monitoring should be continued throughout this period. Further treatment with infliximab must not be 
given if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis. 
Caution should be exercised when considering the use of infliximab in patients with chronic infection 
or a history of recurrent infections, including concomitant immunosuppressive therapy. Patients 
should be advised of and avoid exposure to potential risk factors for infection as appropriate. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) mediates inflammation and modulates cellular immune 
responses. Experimental data show that TNFα is essential for the clearing of intracellular infections. 
Clinical experience shows that host defence against infection is compromised in some patients treated 
with infliximab. 
It should be noted that suppression of TNFα may mask symptoms of infection such as fever. Early 
recognition of atypical clinical presentations of serious infections and of typical clinical presentation 
of rare and unusual infections is critical in order to minimise delays in diagnosis and treatment.  
Patients taking TNF-blockers are more susceptible to serious infections. 
Tuberculosis, bacterial infections, including sepsis and pneumonia, invasive fungal, viral, and other 
opportunistic infections have been observed in patients treated with infliximab. Some of these 
infections have been fatal; the most frequently reported opportunistic infections with a mortality rate 
of >5% include pneumocystosis, candidiasis, listeriosis and aspergillosis. 
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with infliximab, should be 
monitored closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of infliximab should 
be discontinued if a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial 
or antifungal therapy should be initiated until the infection is controlled. 
Tuberculosis 
There have been reports of active tuberculosis in patients receiving infliximab. It should be noted that 
in the majority of these reports tuberculosis was extrapulmonary, presenting as either local or 
disseminated disease.  
Before starting treatment with infliximab, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of tuberculosis or possible previous contact with tuberculosis and previous and/or current 
immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests, (e.g. tuberculin skin test, chest X-ray, and/or 
Interferon Gamma Release Assay), should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may 
apply). It is recommended that the conduct of these tests should be recorded in the patient reminder 
card. Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in 
patients who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, infliximab therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3). 
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted. In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of infliximab therapy should be 
very carefully considered. 
If inactive (‘latent’) tuberculosis is diagnosed, treatment for latent tuberculosis must be started with 
antituberculosis therapy before the initiation of infliximab, and in accordance with local 
recommendations. 
In patients who have several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis and have a negative test for 
latent tuberculosis, antituberculosis therapy should be considered before the initiation of infliximab. 
Use of antituberculosis therapy should also be considered before the initiation of infliximab in patients 
with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be 
confirmed. 
Some cases of active tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with infliximab during and 
after treatment for latent tuberculosis. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g. persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low-grade fever) appear during or after infliximab 
treatment. 
Invasive fungal infections 
In patients treated with infliximab, an invasive fungal infection such as aspergillosis, candidiasis, 
pneumocystosis, histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis should be suspected if they 
develop a serious systemic illness, and a physician with expertise in the diagnosis and treatment of 
invasive fungal infections should be consulted at an early stage when investigating these patients.  
Invasive fungal infections may present as disseminated rather than localised disease, and antigen and 
antibody testing may be negative in some patients with active infection. Appropriate empiric 
antifungal therapy should be considered while a diagnostic workup is being performed taking into 
account both the risk for severe fungal infection and the risks of antifungal therapy.  
For patients who have resided in or travelled to regions where invasive fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis are endemic, the benefits and risks of infliximab 
treatment should be carefully considered before initiation of infliximab therapy. 
Fistulising Crohn’s disease 
Patients with fistulising Crohn’s disease with acute suppurative fistulas must not initiate infliximab 
therapy until a source for possible infection, specifically abscess, has been excluded (see section 4.3). 
Hepatitis B (HBV) reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including infliximab, 
who are chronic carriers of this virus. Some cases have had fatal outcome. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with infliximab. For patients 
who test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of 
hepatitis B is recommended. Carriers of HBV who require treatment with infliximab should be closely 
monitored for signs and symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months 
following termination of therapy. Adequate data of treating patients who are carriers of HBV with 
antiviral therapy in conjunction with TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not 
available. In patients who develop HBV reactivation, infliximab should be stopped and effective 
antiviral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Hepatobiliary events 
Cases of jaundice and non-infectious hepatitis, some with features of autoimmune hepatitis, have been 
observed in the post-marketing experience of infliximab. Isolated cases of liver failure resulting in 
liver transplantation or death have occurred. Patients with symptoms or signs of liver dysfunction 
should be evaluated for evidence of liver injury. If jaundice and/or ALT elevations ≥5 times the upper 
limit of normal develop(s), infliximab should be discontinued, and a thorough investigation of the 
abnormality should be undertaken. 
Concurrent administration of TNF-alpha inhibitor and anakinra 
Serious infections and neutropenia were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and 
another TNFα-blocking agent, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. 
Because of the nature of the adverse reactions seen with combination of etanercept and anakinra 
therapy, similar toxicities may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNFα-blocking 
agents. Therefore, the combination of infliximab and anakinra is not recommended. 
Concurrent administration of TNF-alpha inhibitor and abatacept 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In clinical studies concurrent administration of TNF-antagonists and abatacept has been associated 
with an increased risk of infections including serious infections compared to TNF-antagonists alone, 
without increased clinical benefit. The combination of infliximab and abatacept is not recommended. 
Concurrent administration with other biological therapeutics 
There is insufficient information regarding the concomitant use of infliximab with other biological 
therapeutics used to treat the same conditions as infliximab. The concomitant use of infliximab with 
these biologics is not recommended because of the possibility of an increased risk of infection, and 
other potential pharmacological interactions. 
Switching between biological DMARDs 
Care should be taken and patients should continue to be monitored when switching from one biologic 
to another, since overlapping biological activity may further increase the risk for adverse reactions, 
including infection. 
Vaccinations 
It is recommended that patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all vaccinations in agreement 
with current vaccination guidelines prior to initiating Remsima therapy. Patients on infliximab may 
receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines (see sections 4.5 and 4.6). 
In a subset of 90 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis from the ASPIRE study a similar proportion 
of patients in each treatment group (methotrexate plus: placebo [n = 17], 3 mg/kg [n = 27] or 6 mg/kg 
infliximab [n = 46]) mounted an effective two-fold increase in titers to a polyvalent pneumococcal 
vaccine, indicating that infliximab did not interfere with T-cell independent humoral immune 
responses. However, studies from the published literature in various indications (e.g. rheumatoid 
arthritis, psoriasis, Crohn’s disease) suggest that non-live vaccinations received during treatment with 
anti-TNF therapies, including infliximab may elicit a lower immune response than in patients not 
receiving anti-TNF therapy. 
Live vaccines/therapeutic infectious agents 
In patients receiving anti-TNF therapy, limited data are available on the response to vaccination with 
live vaccines or on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines. Use of live vaccines can 
result in clinical infections, including disseminated infections. The concurrent administration of live 
vaccines with infliximab is not recommended. 
Infant exposure in utero 
In infants exposed in utero to infliximab, fatal outcome due to disseminated Bacillus Calmette-Guérin 
(BCG) infection has been reported following administration of BCG vaccine after birth. A twelve 
month waiting period following birth is recommended before the administration of live vaccines to 
infants exposed in utero to infliximab. If infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable or infliximab 
administration was limited to the first trimester of pregnancy, administration of a live vaccine might be 
considered at an earlier timepoint if there is a clear clinical benefit for the individual infant (see 
section 4.6). 
Infant exposure via breast milk 
Administration of a live vaccine to a breastfed infant while the mother is receiving infliximab is not 
recommended unless infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable (see section 4.6). 
Therapeutic infectious agents 
Other uses of therapeutic infectious agents such as live attenuated bacteria (e.g., BCG bladder 
instillation for the treatment of cancer) could result in clinical infections, including disseminated 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections. It is recommended that therapeutic infectious agents not be given concurrently with 
infliximab. 
Autoimmune processes 
The relative deficiency of TNFα caused by anti-TNF therapy may result in the initiation of an 
autoimmune process. If a patient develops symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following 
treatment with infliximab and is positive for antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further 
treatment with infliximab must not be given (see section 4.8). 
Neurological events 
Use of TNF-blocking agents, including infliximab, has been associated with cases of new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system 
demyelinating disorders, including multiple sclerosis, and peripheral demyelinating disorders, 
including Guillain-Barré syndrome. In patients with pre-existing or recent onset of demyelinating 
disorders, the benefits and risks of anti-TNF treatment should be carefully considered before initiation 
of infliximab therapy. Discontinuation of infliximab should be considered if these disorders develop.  
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In the controlled portions of clinical studies of TNF-blocking agents, more cases of malignancies 
including lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF blocker compared with 
control patients. During clinical studies of infliximab across all approved indications the incidence of 
lymphoma in infliximab-treated patients was higher than expected in the general population, but the 
occurrence of lymphoma was rare. In the post-marketing setting, cases of leukaemia have been 
reported in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for 
lymphoma and leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, 
inflammatory disease, which complicates risk estimation.  
In an exploratory clinical study evaluating the use of infliximab in patients with moderate to severe 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies were reported in infliximab-
treated patients compared with control patients. All patients had a history of heavy smoking. Caution 
should be exercised in considering treatment of patients with increased risk for malignancy due to 
heavy smoking. 
With the current knowledge, a risk for the development of lymphomas or other malignancies in 
patients treated with a TNF-blocking agent cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). Caution should be 
exercised when considering TNF-blocking therapy for patients with a history of malignancy or when 
considering continuing treatment in patients who develop a malignancy. 
Caution should also be exercised in patients with psoriasis and a medical history of extensive 
immunosuppressant therapy or prolonged PUVA treatment. 
Although subcutaneous administration is not indicated for children under age of 18 years, it should be 
noted that malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults 
(up to 22 years of age) treated with TNF-blocking agents (initiation of therapy ≤18 years of age), 
including infliximab in the post-marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. 
The other cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually 
associated with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in patients treated 
with TNF-blockers cannot be excluded. 
Post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL) have been reported in patients 
treated with TNF-blocking agents including infliximab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very 
aggressive disease course and is usually fatal. Almost all patients had received treatment with AZA or 
6-MP concomitantly with or immediately prior to a TNF-blocker. The vast majority of infliximab 
cases have occurred in patients with Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis and most were reported in 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adolescent or young adult males. The potential risk with the combination of AZA or 6-MP and 
infliximab should be carefully considered. A risk for the development for hepatosplenic T-cell 
lymphoma in patients treated with infliximab cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
Melanoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported in patients treated with TNF blocker 
therapy, including infliximab (see section 4.8). Periodic skin examination is recommended, 
particularly for patients with risk factors for skin cancer. 
A population-based retrospective cohort study using data from Swedish national health registries 
found an increased incidence of cervical cancer in women with rheumatoid arthritis treated with 
infliximab compared to biologics-naïve patients or the general population, including those over 60 
years of age. Periodic screening should continue in women treated with infliximab, including those 
over 60 years of age. 
All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon carcinoma (for 
example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing cholangitis), or who had a 
prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for dysplasia at regular intervals 
before therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation should include colonoscopy and 
biopsies per local recommendations. Current data do not indicate that infliximab treatment influences 
the risk for developing dysplasia or colon cancer. 
Since the possibility of increased risk of cancer development in patients with newly diagnosed 
dysplasia treated with infliximab is not established, the risk and benefits of continued therapy to the 
individual patients should be carefully considered by the clinician. 
Heart failure 
Infliximab should be used with caution in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Patients 
should be closely monitored and infliximab must not be continued in patients who develop new or 
worsening symptoms of heart failure (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). 
Haematologic reactions 
There have been reports of pancytopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia in patients 
receiving TNF-blockers, including infliximab. All patients should be advised to seek immediate 
medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias (e.g. persistent 
fever, bruising, bleeding, pallor). Discontinuation of infliximab therapy should be considered in 
patients with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities. 
Others 
There is limited safety experience of infliximab treatment in patients who have undergone surgical 
procedures, including arthroplasty. The long half-life of infliximab should be taken into consideration 
if a surgical procedure is planned. A patient who requires surgery while on infliximab should be 
closely monitored for infections, and appropriate actions should be taken. 
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of a fixed fibrotic 
stricture that may require surgical treatment. There is no evidence to suggest that infliximab worsens 
or causes fibrotic strictures. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
The incidence of serious infections in infliximab-treated patients 65 years and older was greater than 
in those under 65 years of age. Some of those had a fatal outcome. Particular attention regarding the 
risk for infection should be paid when treating the elderly (see section 4.8). 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium and sorbitol contents 
Remsima contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’ and 45 mg 
sorbitol per 1 mL (in each 120 mg dose).  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed.  
In rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and Crohn's disease patients, there are indications that 
concomitant use of methotrexate and other immunomodulators reduces the formation of antibodies 
against infliximab and increases the plasma concentrations of infliximab. However, the results are 
uncertain due to limitations in the methods used for serum analyses of infliximab and antibodies 
against infliximab. 
Corticosteroids do not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of infliximab to a clinically relevant 
extent. 
The combination of infliximab with other biological therapeutics used to treat the same conditions as 
infliximab, including anakinra and abatacept, is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
It is recommended that live vaccines not be given concurrently with Remsima. It is also recommended 
that live vaccines not be given to infants after in utero exposure to infliximab for 12 months following 
birth. If infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable or infliximab administration was limited to the 
first trimester of pregnancy, administration of a live vaccine might be considered at an earlier 
timepoint if there is a clear clinical benefit for the individual infant (see section 4.4). 
Administration of a live vaccine to a breastfed infant while the mother is receiving infliximab is not 
recommended unless infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). 
It is recommended that therapeutic infectious agents not be given concurrently with infliximab (see 
section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent 
pregnancy and continue its use for at least 6 months after the last infliximab treatment.  
Pregnancy 
The moderate number of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to infliximab resulting in live 
birth with known outcomes, including approximately 1,100 exposed during the first trimester, does not 
indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn.  
Based on an observational study from Northern Europe, an increased risk (OR, 95% CI; p-value) for 
C-section (1.50, 1.14-1.96; p = 0.0032), preterm birth (1.48, 1.05-2.09; p = 0.024), small for 
gestational age (2.79, 1.54-5.04; p = 0.0007), and low birth weight (2.03, 1.41-2.94; p = 0.0002) was 
observed in women exposed during pregnancy to infliximab (with or without 
immunomodulators/corticosteroids, 270 pregnancies) as compared to women exposed to 
immunomodulators and/or corticosteroids only (6,460 pregnancies). The potential contribution of 
exposure to infliximab and/or the severity of the underlying disease in these outcomes remains 
unclear.  
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to its inhibition of TNFα, infliximab administered during pregnancy could affect normal immune 
responses in the newborn. In a developmental toxicity study conducted in mice using an analogous 
antibody that selectively inhibits the functional activity of mouse TNFα, there was no indication of 
maternal toxicity, embryotoxicity or teratogenicity (see section 5.3).  
The available clinical experience is limited. Infliximab should only be used during pregnancy if 
clearly needed. 
Infliximab crosses the placenta and has been detected in the serum of infants up to 12 months 
following birth. After in utero exposure to infliximab, infants may be at increased risk of infection, 
including serious disseminated infection that can become fatal. Administration of live vaccines (e.g., 
BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to infliximab in utero is not recommended for 12 months after birth 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.5). If infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable or infliximab 
administration was limited to the first trimester of pregnancy, administration of a live vaccine might be 
considered at an earlier timepoint if there is a clear clinical benefit for the individual infant. Cases of 
agranulocytosis have also been reported (see section 4.8).  
Breast-feeding 
Limited data from published literature indicate infliximab has been detected at low levels in human 
milk at concentrations up to 5% of the maternal serum level. Infliximab has also been detected in 
infant serum after exposure to infliximab via breast milk. While systemic exposure in a breastfed 
infant is expected to be low because infliximab is largely degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, the 
administration of live vaccines to a breastfed infant when the mother is receiving infliximab is not 
recommended unless infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable. Infliximab could be considered 
for use during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
There are insufficient preclinical data to draw conclusions on the effects of infliximab on fertility and 
general reproductive function (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Remsima may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur 
following administration of infliximab (see section 4.8).  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile  
Upper respiratory tract infection was the most common adverse drug reaction (ADR) reported in 
clinical trials with infliximab, occurring in 25.3% of infliximab-treated patients compared with 16.5% 
of control patients. The most serious ADRs associated with the use of TNF blockers that have been 
reported for infliximab include HBV reactivation, CHF (congestive heart failure), serious infections 
(including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), serum sickness (delayed hypersensitivity 
reactions), haematologic reactions, systemic lupus erythematosus/lupus-like syndrome, demyelinating 
disorders, hepatobiliary events, lymphoma, HSTCL, leukaemia, Merkel cell carcinoma, melanoma, 
sarcoidosis/sarcoid-like reaction, intestinal or perianal abscess (in Crohn’s disease) and serious 
infusion reactions (see section 4.4). 
The safety profile of Remsima subcutaneous formulation from active rheumatoid arthritis (evaluated 
in 168 and 175 patients for the subcutaneous infliximab group and the intravenous infliximab group, 
respectively), active Crohn’s disease (evaluated in 59 and 38 patients for the subcutaneous infliximab 
group and the intravenous infliximab group, respectively) and active ulcerative colitis patients 
(evaluated in 38 and 40 patients for the subcutaneous infliximab group and the intravenous infliximab 
group, respectively) was overall similar to the safety profile of the intravenous formulation.  
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions  
Table 1 lists the ADRs based on experience from clinical studies as well as adverse reactions, some 
with fatal outcome, reported from post-marketing experience. Within the organ system classes, 
adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the following categories: very common 
(≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within 
each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1 
Adverse reactions in clinical studies and from post-marketing experience of intravenous 
infliximab  
Infections and infestations 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Viral infection (e.g. influenza, herpes virus infection). 
Bacterial infections (e.g. sepsis, cellulitis, abscess).  
Tuberculosis, fungal infections (e.g. candidiasis, onychomycosis). 
Meningitis, opportunistic infections (such as invasive fungal infections 
[pneumocystosis, histoplasmosis, aspergillosis, coccidioidomycosis, 
cryptococcosis, blastomycosis], bacterial infections [atypical 
mycobacterial, listeriosis, salmonellosis], and viral infections 
[cytomegalovirus]), parasitic infections, hepatitis B reactivation. 
Not known: 
Vaccine breakthrough infection (after in utero exposure to 
infliximab)*. 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Rare: 
Not known: 
Lymphoma, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, Hodgkin’s disease, leukaemia, 
melanoma, cervical cancer. 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (primarily in adolescents and young 
adult males with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis), Merkel cell 
carcinoma, Kaposi’s sarcoma. 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Neutropenia, leukopenia, anaemia, lymphadenopathy. 
Thrombocytopenia, lymphopenia, lymphocytosis.  
Agranulocytosis (including infants exposed in utero to infliximab), 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, pancytopenia, haemolytic 
anaemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. 
Immune system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare  
Allergic respiratory symptom. 
Anaphylactic reaction, lupus-like syndrome, serum sickness or serum 
sickness-like reaction. 
Anaphylactic shock, vasculitis, sarcoid-like reaction 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Uncommon: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Dyslipidaemia. 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Depression, insomnia. 
Amnesia, agitation, confusion, somnolence, nervousness. 
Apathy. 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Headache. 
Vertigo, dizziness, hypoaesthesia, paraesthesia. 
Seizure, neuropathy. 
52 
 
 
Rare: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Cardiac disorders 
Common  
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Transverse myelitis, central nervous system demyelinating disorders 
(multiple sclerosis-like disease and optic neuritis), peripheral 
demyelinating disorders (such as Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic 
inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy and multifocal motor 
neuropathy). 
Cerebrovascular accidents in close temporal association with infusion. 
Conjunctivitis 
Keratitis, periorbital oedema, hordeolum 
Endophthalmitis 
Transient visual loss occurring during or within 2 hours of infusion 
Tachycardia, palpitation 
Cardiac failure (new onset or worsening), arrhythmia, syncope, 
bradycardia 
Cyanosis, pericardial effusion 
Myocardial ischaemia/myocardial infarction 
Hypotension, hypertension, ecchymosis, hot flush, flushing 
Peripheral ischaemia, thrombophlebitis, haematoma 
Rare 
Circulatory failure, petechia, vasospasm 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis 
Lower respiratory tract infection (e.g. bronchitis, pneumonia), 
dyspnoea, epistaxis 
Pulmonary oedema, bronchospasm, pleurisy, pleural effusion 
Interstitial lung disease (including rapidly progressive disease, lung 
fibrosis and pneumonitis) 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common:  
Common:  
Uncommon 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Abdominal pain, nausea 
Gastrointestinal haemorrhage, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal 
reflux, constipation 
Intestinal perforation, intestinal stenosis, diverticulitis, pancreatitis, 
cheilitis 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Not known: 
Hepatic function abnormal, transaminases increased. 
Hepatitis, hepatocellular damage, cholecystitis. 
Autoimmune hepatitis, jaundice. 
Liver failure. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Not known: 
New onset or worsening psoriasis including pustular psoriasis 
(primarily palm & soles), urticaria, rash, pruritus, hyperhidrosis, dry 
skin, fungal dermatitis, eczema, alopecia. 
Bullous eruption, seborrhoea, rosacea, skin papilloma, hyperkeratosis, 
abnormal skin pigmentation. 
Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, furunculosis, linear IgA bullous dermatosis (LABD), 
acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), lichenoid 
reactions. 
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis. 
53 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Common: 
Arthralgia, myalgia, back pain. 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Urinary tract infection. 
Pyelonephritis. 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon: 
Vaginitis. 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Infusion-related reaction, pain. 
Chest pain, fatigue, fever, injection site reaction, chills, oedema. 
Impaired healing. 
Granulomatous lesion. 
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Autoantibody positive. 
Complement factor abnormal. 
*  including bovine tuberculosis (disseminated BCG infection), see section 4.4 
Description of selected adverse drug reactions 
Systemic injection reaction and localised injection site reaction in adult patients administered with 
Remsima subcutaneous formulation 
The safety profile of Remsima subcutaneous formulation in combination with methotrexate was 
evaluated in a Phase I/III parallel group study in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. The safety 
population consisted of 168 patients in the Remsima subcutaneous group and 175 patients in the 
Remsima intravenous group. For study details, see Section 5.1. 
The incidence rate of systemic injection reactions (e.g. rash, pruritus, flushing and oedema) was 1.2 
patients per 100 patient-years in the Remsima subcutaneous group (from Week 6) and 2.1 patients per 
100 patient-years in the Remsima intravenous group who switched to Remsima subcutaneous 
administration (from Week 30). All systemic injection reactions were mild to moderate.  
The incidence rate of localised injection site reactions (e.g. injection site erythema, pain, pruritus and 
swelling) was 17.6 patients per 100 patient-years in the Remsima subcutaneous group (from Week 6) 
and 21.4 patients per 100 patient-years in those who switched to Remsima subcutaneous 
administration (from Week 30). Most of these reactions were mild to moderate and resolved 
spontaneously without any treatment within a day. 
In a Phase I study conducted in patients with active Crohn’s disease and active ulcerative colitis, the 
safety population consisted of 97 patients in the Remsima subcutaneous group (59 patients with active 
Crohn’s disease and 38 patients with active ulcerative colitis) and 78 patients in the Remsima 
intravenous group (38 patients with active Crohn’s disease and 40 patients with active ulcerative 
colitis) from Part 1 and Part 2 of the study. For study details, see Section 5.1. 
The incidence rate of systemic injection reactions (e.g. nausea and dizziness) was 2.3 patients per 100 
patient-years in the Remsima subcutaneous group (from Week 6) and there were no systemic injection 
reactions reported in the Remsima intravenous group who switched to Remsima subcutaneous 
administration (from Week 30). 
The incidence rate of localised injection site reactions (e.g. injection site erythema, pain, pruritus, 
bruising) was 23.3 patients per 100 patient-years in the Remsima subcutaneous group (from Week 6) 
and 7.5 patients per 100 patient-years in the Remsima intravenous group who switched to Remsima 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subcutaneous administration (from Week 30). All of these reactions were mild to moderate and mostly 
resolved spontaneously without any treatment within a few days. 
In post-marketing experience, cases of anaphylactic-like reactions, including laryngeal/pharyngeal 
oedema and severe bronchospasm, and seizure have been associated with infliximab intravenous 
administration (see section 4.4). Cases of transient visual loss occurring during or within 2 hours of 
infliximab infusion have been reported. Events (some fatal) of myocardial ischaemia/infarction and 
arrhythmia have been reported, some in close temporal association with infusion of infliximab; 
cerebrovascular accidents have also been reported in close temporal association with infusion of 
infliximab. 
Delayed hypersensitivity 
In clinical studies delayed hypersensitivity reactions have been uncommon and have occurred after 
infliximab-free intervals of less than 1 year. In the psoriasis studies with intravenous infliximab, 
delayed hypersensitivity reactions occurred early in the treatment course. Signs and symptoms 
included myalgia and/or arthralgia with fever and/or rash, with some patients experiencing pruritus, 
facial, hand or lip oedema, dysphagia, urticaria, sore throat and headache. 
There are insufficient data on the incidence of delayed hypersensitivity reactions after infliximab-free 
intervals of more than 1 year but limited data from clinical studies suggest an increased risk for 
delayed hypersensitivity with increasing infliximab-free interval (see section 4.4). 
In a 1-year clinical study with repeated infusions of IV infliximab in patients with Crohn's disease 
(ACCENT I study), the incidence of serum sickness-like reactions was 2.4%. 
Immunogenicity  
Intravenous formulation 
Patients who developed antibodies to infliximab were more likely (approximately 2-3 fold) to develop 
infusion-related reactions. Use of concomitant immunosuppressant agents appeared to reduce the 
frequency of infusion-related reactions. 
In clinical studies using single and multiple infliximab doses ranging from 1 to 20 mg/kg, antibodies 
to infliximab were detected in 14% of patients with any immunosuppressant therapy, and in 24% of 
patients without immunosuppressant therapy. In rheumatoid arthritis patients who received the 
recommended repeated treatment dose regimens with methotrexate, 8% of patients developed 
antibodies to infliximab. In psoriatic arthritis patients who received 5 mg/kg with and without 
methotrexate, antibodies occurred overall in 15% of patients (antibodies occurred in 4% of patients 
receiving methotrexate and in 26% of patients not receiving methotrexate at baseline). In Crohn's 
disease patients who received maintenance treatment, antibodies to infliximab occurred overall in 
3.3% of patients receiving immunosuppressants and in 13.3% of patients not receiving 
immunosuppressants. The antibody incidence was 2-3 fold higher for patients treated episodically. 
Due to methodological limitations, a negative assay did not exclude the presence of antibodies to 
infliximab. Some patients who developed high titres of antibodies to infliximab had evidence of 
reduced efficacy. In psoriasis patients treated with infliximab as a maintenance regimen in the absence 
of concomitant immunomodulators, approximately 28% developed antibodies to infliximab (see 
section 4.4: "Systemic injection reaction/ localised injection site reaction/ hypersensitivity"). 
Because immunogenicity analyses are assay-specific, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to 
infliximab reported in this section with the incidence of antibodies in other studies may be misleading. 
Subcutaneous formulation 
In rheumatoid arthritis patients on maintenance treatment, the incidence of anti-infliximab antibodies 
following the subcutaneous infliximab was demonstrated to be not higher than that of the intravenous 
infliximab and anti-infliximab antibodies had no significant impact on efficacy (determined by disease 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
activity score in 28 joints [DAS28] and American College of Rheumatology criteria 20 [ACR20]) and 
the safety profile.  
In Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis patients on maintenance treatment, the incidence of 
anti-infliximab antibodies was not higher in patients who received subcutaneous infliximab in 
comparison to those who received intravenous infliximab and anti-infliximab antibodies had no 
significant impact on efficacy (determined by clinical response and clinical remission according to 
CDAI score for Crohn's disease patients or partial Mayo score for ulcerative colitis patients) and the 
safety profile. 
Infections 
Tuberculosis, bacterial infections, including sepsis and pneumonia, invasive fungal, viral, and other 
opportunistic infections have been observed in patients receiving infliximab. Some of these infections 
have been fatal; the most frequently reported opportunistic infections with a mortality rate of >5% 
include pneumocystosis, candidiasis, listeriosis and aspergillosis (see section 4.4). 
In clinical studies 36% of infliximab-treated patients were treated for infections compared with 25% of 
placebo-treated patients. 
In rheumatoid arthritis clinical studies, the incidence of serious infections including pneumonia was 
higher in infliximab plus methotrexate-treated patients compared with methotrexate alone especially at 
doses of 6 mg/kg or greater (see section 4.4). 
In post-marketing spontaneous reporting, infections are the most common serious adverse reaction. 
Some of the cases have resulted in a fatal outcome. Nearly 50% of reported deaths have been 
associated with infection. Cases of tuberculosis, sometimes fatal, including miliary tuberculosis and 
tuberculosis with extra-pulmonary location have been reported (see section 4.4). 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In clinical studies with infliximab in which 5,780 patients were treated, representing 5,494 patient 
years, 5 cases of lymphomas and 26 non-lymphoma malignancies were detected as compared with no 
lymphomas and 1 non-lymphoma malignancy in 1,600 placebo-treated patients representing 
941 patient years. 
In long-term safety follow-up of clinical studies with infliximab of up to 5 years, representing 
6,234 patients-years (3,210 patients), 5 cases of lymphoma and 38 cases of non-lymphoma 
malignancies were reported. 
Cases of malignancies, including lymphoma, have also been reported in the post-marketing setting 
(see section 4.4). 
In an exploratory clinical study involving patients with moderate to severe COPD who were either 
current smokers or ex-smokers, 157 adult patients were treated with infliximab at doses similar to 
those used in rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn’s disease. Nine of these patients developed malignancies, 
including 1 lymphoma. The median duration of follow-up was 0.8 years (incidence 5.7% [95% CI 
2.65%-10.6%]. There was one reported malignancy amongst 77 control patients (median duration of 
follow-up 0.8 years; incidence 1.3% [95% CI 0.03%-7.0%]). The majority of the malignancies 
developed in the lung or head and neck. 
A population-based retrospective cohort study found an increased incidence of cervical cancer in 
women with rheumatoid arthritis treated with infliximab compared to biologics-naïve patients or the 
general population, including those over 60 years of age (see section 4.4). 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients 
treated with infliximab with the vast majority of cases occurring in Crohn’s disease and ulcerative 
colitis, and most of whom were adolescent or young adult males (see section 4.4). 
Heart failure 
In a Phase II study aimed at evaluating infliximab in CHF, higher incidence of mortality due to 
worsening of heart failure were seen in patients treated with infliximab, especially those treated with 
the higher dose of 10 mg/kg (i.e. twice the maximum approved dose). In this study 150 patients with 
NYHA Class III-IV CHF (left ventricular ejection fraction ≤35%) were treated with 3 infusions of 
infliximab 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, or placebo over 6 weeks. At 38 weeks, 9 of 101 patients treated with 
infliximab (2 at 5 mg/kg and 7 at 10 mg/kg) died compared to one death among the 49 patients on 
placebo. 
There have been post-marketing reports of worsening heart failure, with and without identifiable 
precipitating factors, in patients taking infliximab. There have also been post-marketing reports of new 
onset heart failure, including heart failure in patients without known pre-existing cardiovascular 
disease. Some of these patients have been under 50 years of age. 
Hepatobiliary events 
In clinical studies, mild or moderate elevations of ALT and AST have been observed in patients 
receiving infliximab without progression to severe hepatic injury. Elevations of ALT ≥5 x Upper 
Limit of Normal (ULN) have been observed (see Table 2). Elevations of aminotransferases were 
observed (ALT more common than AST) in a greater proportion of patients receiving infliximab than 
in controls, both when infliximab was given as monotherapy and when it was used in combination 
with other immunosuppressive agents. Most aminotransferase abnormalities were transient; however, 
a small number of patients experienced more prolonged elevations. In general, patients who developed 
ALT and AST elevations were asymptomatic, and the abnormalities decreased or resolved with either 
continuation or discontinuation of infliximab, or modification of concomitant therapy. In 
post-marketing surveillance, cases of jaundice and hepatitis, some with features of autoimmune 
hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving infliximab (see section 4.4).  
Table 2 
Proportion of patients with increased ALT activity in clinical studies using intravenous 
infliximab 
Indication 
Rheumatoid 
arthritis1 
Crohn’s 
disease2 
Ulcerative 
colitis 
Number of patients3 
Median follow-up 
(wks)4 
≥ 3 x ULN 
≥ 5 x ULN 
placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab 
375 
324 
242 
1,087 
58.1 
58.3 
3.2% 
3.9% 
0.8% 
0.9% 
1,034 
53.7 
54.0 
2.2% 
4.9% 
0.0% 
1.5% 
482 
30.1 
30.8 
1.2% 
2.5% 
0.4% 
0.6% 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indication 
Ankylosing 
spondylitis 
Psoriatic 
arthritis 
Plaque 
psoriasis 
Number of patients3 
Median follow-up 
(wks)4 
≥ 3 x ULN 
≥ 5 x ULN 
placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab  placebo 
infliximab 
76 
98 
275 
191 
24.1 
101.9 
0.0% 
9.5% 
0.0% 
3.6% 
18.1 
39.1 
0.0% 
6.8% 
0.0% 
2.1% 
281 
1,175 
16.1 
50.1 
0.4% 
7.7% 
0.0% 
3.4% 
1  Placebo patients received methotrexate while infliximab patients received both infliximab and 
methotrexate. 
2  Placebo patients in the 2 Phase III studies in Crohn’s disease, ACCENT I and ACCENT II, 
received an initial dose of 5 mg/kg infliximab at study start and were on placebo in the 
maintenance phase. Patients who were randomised to the placebo maintenance group and then later 
crossed over to infliximab are included in the infliximab group in the ALT analysis. In the Phase 
IIIb trial in Crohn’s disease, SONIC, placebo patients received AZA 2.5 mg/kg/day as active 
control in addition to placebo infliximab infusions. 
3  Number of patients evaluated for ALT. 
4  Median follow-up is based on patients treated. 
Antinuclear antibodies (ANA)/Anti-double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) antibodies 
Approximately half of infliximab-treated patients in clinical studies who were ANA negative at 
baseline developed a positive ANA during the study compared with approximately one fifth of 
placebo-treated patients. Anti-dsDNA antibodies were newly detected in approximately 17% of 
infliximab-treated patients compared with 0% of placebo-treated patients. At the last evaluation, 57% 
of infliximab-treated patients remained anti-dsDNA positive. Reports of lupus and lupus-like 
syndromes, however, remain uncommon (see section 4.4). 
Other special populations 
Elderly 
In rheumatoid arthritis clinical studies, the incidence of serious infections was greater in infliximab 
plus methotrexate-treated patients 65 years and older (11.3%) than in those under 65 years of age 
(4.6%). In patients treated with methotrexate alone, the incidence of serious infections was 5.2% in 
patients 65 years and older compared to 2.7% in patients under 65 (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Single intravenous doses up to 20 mg/kg have been administered without toxic effects and repeated 
doses of Remsima subcutaneous formulation up to 240 mg have been administered without toxic 
effects. There is no specific treatment for Remsima overdose. In the event of an overdose, the patient 
should be treated symptomatically and supportive measures instituted as required.  
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunosuppressants, tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB02 
Remsima is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mechanism of action 
Infliximab is a chimeric human-murine monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to both 
soluble and transmembrane forms of TNFα but not to lymphotoxin α (TNFβ). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Infliximab inhibits the functional activity of TNFα in a wide variety of in vitro bioassays. Infliximab 
prevented disease in transgenic mice that develop polyarthritis as a result of constitutive expression of 
human TNFα and when administered after disease onset, it allowed eroded joints to heal. In vivo, 
infliximab rapidly forms stable complexes with human TNFα, a process that parallels the loss of TNFα 
bioactivity. 
Elevated concentrations of TNFα have been found in the joints of rheumatoid arthritis patients and 
correlate with elevated disease activity. In rheumatoid arthritis, treatment with infliximab reduced 
infiltration of inflammatory cells into inflamed areas of the joint as well as expression of molecules 
mediating cellular adhesion, chemoattraction and tissue degradation. After infliximab treatment, 
patients exhibited decreased levels of serum interleukin 6 (IL-6) and C-reactive protein (CRP), and 
increased haemoglobin levels in rheumatoid arthritis patients with reduced haemoglobin levels, 
compared with baseline. Peripheral blood lymphocytes further showed no significant decrease in 
number or in proliferative responses to in vitro mitogenic stimulation when compared with untreated 
patients’ cells. In psoriasis patients, treatment with infliximab resulted in decreases in epidermal 
inflammation and normalisation of keratinocyte differentiation in psoriatic plaques. In psoriatic 
arthritis, short term treatment with infliximab reduced the number of T-cells and blood vessels in the 
synovium and psoriatic skin. 
Histological evaluation of colonic biopsies, obtained before and 4 weeks after administration of 
infliximab, revealed a substantial reduction in detectable TNFα. Infliximab treatment of Crohn’s 
disease patients was also associated with a substantial reduction of the commonly elevated serum 
inflammatory marker, CRP. Total peripheral white blood cell counts were minimally affected in 
infliximab-treated patients, although changes in lymphocytes, monocytes and neutrophils reflected 
shifts towards normal ranges. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from infliximab-treated 
patients showed undiminished proliferative responsiveness to stimuli compared with untreated 
patients, and no substantial changes in cytokine production by stimulated PBMC were observed 
following treatment with infliximab. Analysis of lamina propria mononuclear cells obtained by biopsy 
of the intestinal mucosa showed that infliximab treatment caused a reduction in the number of cells 
capable of expressing TNFα and interferon γ. Additional histological studies provided evidence that 
treatment with infliximab reduces the infiltration of inflammatory cells into affected areas of the 
intestine and the presence of inflammation markers at these sites. Endoscopic studies of intestinal 
mucosa have shown evidence of mucosal healing in infliximab-treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Adult rheumatoid arthritis 
Intravenous formulation 
The efficacy of infliximab intravenous formulation was assessed in two multicentre, randomised, 
double-blind, pivotal clinical studies: ATTRACT and ASPIRE. In both studies concurrent use of 
stable doses of folic acid, oral corticosteroids (≤10 mg/day) and/or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NSAIDs) was permitted. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoints were the reduction of signs and symptoms as assessed by the ACR criteria 
(ACR20 for ATTRACT, landmark ACR-N for ASPIRE), the prevention of structural joint damage, 
and the improvement in physical function. A reduction in signs and symptoms was defined to be at 
least a 20% improvement (ACR20) in both tender and swollen joint counts, and in 3 of the following 
5 criteria: (1) evaluator’s global assessment, (2) patient’s global assessment, (3) functional/disability 
measure, (4) visual analogue pain scale and (5) erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein. 
ACR-N uses the same criteria as the ACR20, calculated by taking the lowest percent improvement in 
swollen joint count, tender joint count, and the median of the remaining 5 components of the ACR 
response. Structural joint damage (erosions and joint space narrowing) in both hands and feet was 
measured by the change from baseline in the total van der Heijde-modified Sharp score (0-440). The 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ; scale 0-3) was used to measure patients’ average change 
from baseline scores over time, in physical function. 
The ATTRACT study evaluated responses at 30, 54 and 102 weeks in a placebo-controlled study of 
428 patients with active rheumatoid arthritis despite treatment with methotrexate. Approximately 50% 
of patients were in functional Class III. Patients received placebo, 3 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg infliximab at 
weeks 0, 2 and 6, and then every 4 or 8 weeks thereafter. All patients were on stable methotrexate 
doses (median 15 mg/wk) for 6 months prior to enrolment and were to remain on stable doses 
throughout the study. 
Results from week 54 (ACR20, total van der Heijde-modified Sharp score and HAQ) are shown in 
Table 3. Higher degrees of clinical response (ACR50 and ACR70) were observed in all infliximab 
groups at 30 and 54 weeks compared with methotrexate alone. 
A reduction in the rate of the progression of structural joint damage (erosions and joint space 
narrowing) was observed in all infliximab groups at 54 weeks (Table 3). 
The effects observed at 54 weeks were maintained through 102 weeks. Due to a number of treatment 
withdrawals, the magnitude of the effect difference between infliximab and the methotrexate alone 
group cannot be defined. 
Table 3 
Effects on ACR20, Structural Joint Damage and Physical Function at week 54, ATTRACT 
Controla 
3 mg/kg 
q 8 wks 
36/86 
(42%) 
3 mg/kg 
q 4 wks 
41/86 
(48%) 
Infliximabb 
10 mg/kg 
q 8 wks 
51/87 
(59%) 
10 mg/kg 
q 4 wks 
48/81 
(59%) 
All 
infliximabb 
176/340 
(52%) 
1.3 ± 6.0 
0.6 ± 5.9 
1.6 ± 8.5 
0.2 ± 3.6 
-0.7 ± 3.8 
15/88 
(17%) 
7.0 ± 
10.3 
4.0 
(0.5,9.7) 
13/64 
(20%) 
Patients with ACR20 
response/Patients 
evaluated (%) 
Total scored (van der Heijde-modified Sharp score) 
Change from baseline 
(Mean ± SDc) 
Median 
(Interquartile range) 
Patients with no 
deterioration/patients 
evaluated (%)c 
HAQ change from 
baseline over timee 
(patients evaluated) 
Mean ± SDc 
a 
prior to enrolment and were to remain on stable doses throughout the study. Concurrent use of stable doses of 
oral corticosteroids (≤10 mg/day) and/or NSAIDs was permitted, and folate supplementation was given. 
b 
and/or NSAIDs 
all infliximab doses given in combination with methotrexate and folate with some on corticosteroids 
control = All patients had active RA despite treatment with stable methotrexate doses for 6 months 
0.4 ± 0.3   0.5 ± 0.4   0.5 ± 0.5   0.4 ± 0.4   0.4 ± 0.4  
0.5 
(-1.5,3.0) 
34/71 
(48%) 
0.5 
(-1.5,2.0) 
37/77 
(48%) 
0.0 
(-1.8,2.0) 
150/285 
(53%) 
-0.5 
(-3.0,1.5) 
44/66 
(67%) 
0.1 
(-2.5,3.0) 
35/71 
(49%) 
0.2 ± 0.3  
339 
86 
81 
87 
87 
85 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Controla 
3 mg/kg 
q 8 wks 
3 mg/kg 
q 4 wks 
Infliximabb 
10 mg/kg 
q 8 wks 
10 mg/kg 
q 4 wks 
All 
infliximabb 
c 
d 
e 
p <0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs. control 
greater values indicate more joint damage. 
HAQ = Health Assessment Questionnaire; greater values indicate less disability. 
The ASPIRE study evaluated responses at 54 weeks in 1,004 methotrexate naive patients with early 
(≤3 years disease duration, median 0.6 years) active rheumatoid arthritis (median swollen and tender 
joint count of 19 and 31, respectively). All patients received methotrexate (optimised to 20 mg/wk by 
week 8) and either placebo, 3 mg/kg or 6 mg/kg infliximab at weeks 0, 2, and 6 and every 8 weeks 
thereafter. Results from week 54 are shown in Table 4. 
After 54 weeks of treatment, both doses of infliximab + methotrexate resulted in statistically 
significantly greater improvement in signs and symptoms compared to methotrexate alone as 
measured by the proportion of patients achieving ACR20, 50 and 70 responses. 
In ASPIRE, more than 90% of patients had at least two evaluable X-rays. Reduction in the rate of 
progression of structural damage was observed at weeks 30 and 54 in the infliximab + methotrexate 
groups compared to methotrexate alone. 
Table 4 
Effects on ACRn, Structural Joint Damage and Physical Function at week 54, ASPIRE 
Infliximab + MTX 
3 mg/kg 
6 mg/kg 
Combined 
Placebo 
+ MTX 
282 
363 
359 
24.8 ± 59.7 
Subjects randomised 
Percentage ACR improvement 
Mean ± SDa 
37.3 ± 52.8 
Change from baseline in total van der Heijde-modified Sharp scoreb 
Mean ± SDa 
0.42 ± 5.82 
3.70 ± 9.61 
Median 
0.00 
0.43 
Improvement from baseline in HAQ averaged over time from week 30 to week 54c 
Mean ± SDd 
0.88 ± 0.65 
a 
b 
c 
d 
 p <0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs control. 
greater values indicate more joint damage. 
HAQ = Health Assessment Questionnaire; greater values indicate less disability. 
p = 0.030 and <0.001 for the 3 mg/kg and 6 mg/kg treatment groups respectively vs. placebo + MTX. 
722 
39.6 ± 50.1 
0.46 ± 5.68 
0.00 
0.84 ± 0.65 
0.51 ± 5.55 
0.00 
0.68 ± 0.63 
0.80 ± 0.65 
42.0 ± 47.3 
Data to support dose titration in rheumatoid arthritis come from ATTRACT, ASPIRE and the START 
study. START was a randomised, multicentre, double-blind, 3-arm, parallel-group safety study. In one 
of the study arms (group 2, n=329), patients with an inadequate response were allowed to dose titrate 
with 1.5 mg/kg increments from 3 up to 9 mg/kg. The majority (67%) of these patients did not require 
any dose titration. Of the patients who required a dose titration, 80% achieved clinical response and 
the majority (64%) of these required only one adjustment of 1.5 mg/kg. 
Subcutaneous formulation 
The efficacy of subcutaneous infliximab in rheumatoid arthritis patients was assessed in a randomised, 
parallel-group pivotal Phase I/III study consisting of two parts: Part 1 to determine the optimal dose of 
subcutaneous infliximab and Part 2 to demonstrate non-inferiority in terms of efficacy of subcutaneous 
infliximab compared to intravenous infliximab treatment in a double-blind setting.  
In Part 2 of this study, among 357 patients who were enrolled to receive 2 doses of Remsima 3 mg/kg 
intravenously at Weeks 0 and 2, 167 patients were randomised to receive Remsima 120 mg 
subcutaneously at Week 6 and every 2 weeks up to Week 54, while 176 patients were randomised to 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receive Remsima 3 mg/kg intravenously at Weeks 6, 14 and 22 and then switched to Remsima 120 mg 
subcutaneous at Week 30 once-every 2 weeks up to Week 54. Methotrexate was given concomitantly.  
The primary endpoint of the study was the treatment difference of the change from baseline of DAS28 
(CRP) at Week 22. The estimate of treatment difference was 0.27 with corresponding lower limit of 
the two-sided 95% confidence interval [CI] of 0.02 (95% CI: 0.02, 0.52), which was greater than the 
pre-specified non-inferiority margin of -0.6 indicating non-inferiority of Remsima subcutaneous 
formulation to Remsima intravenous formulation. 
The analysis of other efficacy endpoints showed that efficacy profile of Remsima subcutaneous 
formulation compared to Remsima intravenous formulation in RA patients was generally comparable 
in terms of disease activity measured by DAS28 (CRP and ESR) and ACR response up to Week 54. 
The mean scores for DAS28 (CRP) and DAS28 (ESR) gradually decreased from baseline at each time 
point until Week 54 in each treatment arm (see Table 5 and Table 6, respectively). 
Table 5 
Mean (SD) Actual Values of DAS28 (CRP and ESR) 
DAS28 (CRP) 
DAS28 (ESR) 
Remsima IV 
3 mg/kgb 
(N=174) 
Remsima SC 
120 mg 
(N=165) 
Remsima IV 
3 mg/kgb 
(N=174) 
Remsima SC 
120 mg 
(N=165) 
5.9 (0.8) 
4.1 (1.2) 
3.5 (1.2)a 
6.0 (0.8) 
4.0 (1.2) 
3.3 (1.1)a 
6.6 (0.8) 
4.8 (1.3) 
4.1 (1.3) 
6.7 (0.8) 
4.6 (1.2) 
4.0 (1.1) 
Visit 
Baseline 
Week 6 
Week 22 
Week 54 
2.8 (1.1) 
Two-sided 95% CI for difference in the mean change from baseline for DAS28 (CRP) at Week 22 was 
3.4 (1.2) 
3.4 (1.3)b 
2.9 (1.2)b 
a 
well above the pre-defined non-inferiority margin of -0.6 
b  
Remsima IV was switched to Remsima SC at Week 30 
Table 6 
Proportions of Patients Achieving Clinical Response According to the ACR Criteria  
ACR70 
ACR20 
ACR50 
Remsima IV 
3 mg/kga 
(N=174) 
Remsima SC 
120 mg 
(N=165) 
Remsima IV 
3 mg/kga 
(N=174) 
Remsima SC 
120 mg 
(N=165) 
Remsima IV 
3 mg/kga 
(N=174) 
Remsima SC 
120 mg 
(N=165) 
103 (59.2%) 
107 (64.8%) 
45 (25.9%) 
47 (28.5%) 
18 (10.3%) 
19 (11.5%) 
Visit 
Week 6 
Week 22  137 (78.7%) 
139 (84.2%) 
90 (51.7%) 
85 (51.5%) 
49 (28.2%) 
46 (27.9%) 
Week 54  125 (71.8%)a 
a 
Remsima IV was switched to Remsima SC at Week 30 
132 (80.0%) 
101 (58.0%)a 
108 (65.5%) 
68 (39.1%)a 
77 (46.7%) 
There are no clinical trials with Remsima 120 mg given subcutaneously without intravenous loading 
doses of infliximab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. However, population pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation predicted comparable infliximab 
exposure (AUC over 8 weeks) and efficacy (DAS28 and ACR20 response) from Week 6 onward in 
rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with Remsima 120 mg given without intravenous loading doses of 
infliximab when compared with Remsima 3 mg/kg given intravenously at Weeks 0, 2 and 6, and then 
every 8 weeks. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adult Crohn’s disease 
Intravenous formulation 
Induction treatment in moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease 
The efficacy of a single dose treatment with infliximab intravenous formulation was assessed in 
108 patients with active Crohn’s disease (CDAI ≥220 ≤400) in a randomised, double-blinded, 
placebo-controlled, dose-response study. Of these 108 patients, 27 were treated with the recommended 
dosage of infliximab 5 mg/kg. All patients had experienced an inadequate response to prior 
conventional therapies. Concurrent use of stable doses of conventional therapies was permitted, and 
92% of patients continued to receive these therapies. 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who experienced a clinical response, defined as a 
decrease in CDAI by ≥70 points from baseline at the 4-week evaluation and without an increase in the 
use of medicinal products or surgery for Crohn’s disease. Patients who responded at week 4 were 
followed to week 12. Secondary endpoints included the proportion of patients in clinical remission at 
week 4 (CDAI <150) and clinical response over time. 
At week 4, following administration of a single dose, 22/27 (81%) of infliximab-treated patients 
receiving a 5 mg/kg dose achieved a clinical response vs. 4/25 (16%) of the placebo-treated patients 
(p <0.001). Also at week 4, 13/27 (48%) of infliximab-treated patients achieved a clinical remission 
(CDAI <150) vs. 1/25 (4%) of placebo-treated patients. A response was observed within 2 weeks, with 
a maximum response at 4 weeks. At the last observation at 12 weeks, 13/27 (48%) of 
infliximab-treated patients were still responding. 
Maintenance treatment in moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in adults 
The efficacy of repeated infusions with intravenous infliximab was studied in a 1-year clinical study 
(ACCENT I). A total of 573 patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CDAI ≥220 
≤400) received a single infusion of 5 mg/kg at week 0. 178 of the 580 enrolled patients (30.7%) were 
defined as having severe disease (CDAI score > 300 and concomitant corticosteroid and/or 
immunosuppressants) corresponding to the population defined in the indication (see section 4.1). At 
week 2, all patients were assessed for clinical response and randomised to one of 3 treatment groups; a 
placebo maintenance group, 5 mg/kg maintenance group and 10 mg/kg maintenance group. All 
3 groups received repeated infusions at week 2, 6 and every 8 weeks thereafter. 
Of the 573 patients randomised, 335 (58%) achieved clinical response by week 2. These patients were 
classified as week-2 responders and were included in the primary analysis (see Table 7). Among 
patients classified as non-responders at week 2, 32% (26/81) in the placebo maintenance group and 
42% (68/163) in the infliximab group achieved clinical response by week 6. There was no difference 
between groups in the number of late responders thereafter. 
The co-primary endpoints were the proportion of patients in clinical remission (CDAI <150) at 
week 30 and time to loss of response through week 54. Corticosteroid tapering was permitted after 
week 6. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 
Effects on response and remission rate, data from ACCENT I (Week-2 responders) 
ACCENT I (Week-2 responders) 
% of Patients 
Placebo 
Maintenance 
(n=110) 
19 weeks 
27.3 
20.9 
Median time to loss of response 
through week 54 
Week 30 
Clinical Responsea 
Clinical Remission 
Steroid-Free Remission 
10.7 (6/56) 
Week 54 
Clinical Responsea 
Clinical Remission 
15.5 
13.6 
Infliximab 
Maintenance 
5 mg/kg 
(n=113) 
(p value) 
38 weeks 
(0.002) 
51.3 
(<0.001) 
38.9 
(0.003) 
31.0 (18/58) 
(0.008) 
Infliximab 
Maintenance 
10 mg/kg 
(n=112) 
(p value) 
>54 weeks 
(<0.001) 
59.1 
(<0.001) 
45.5 
(<0.001) 
36.8 (21/57) 
(0.001) 
38.1 
(<0.001) 
28.3 
(0.007) 
17.9 (10/56) 
(0.075) 
47.7 
(<0.001) 
38.4 
(<0.001) 
28.6 (16/56) 
(0.002) 
Sustained Steroid-Free 
Remissionb 
a  Reduction in CDAI ≥25% and ≥70 points. 
b   CDAI <150 at both Week 30 and 54 and not receiving corticosteroids in the 3 months prior to 
5.7 (3/53) 
Week 54 among patients who were receiving corticosteroids at baseline. 
Beginning at week 14, patients who had responded to treatment, but subsequently lost their clinical 
benefit, were allowed to cross over to a dose of infliximab 5 mg/kg higher than the dose to which they 
were originally randomised. Eighty nine percent (50/56) of patients who lost clinical response on 
infliximab 5 mg/kg maintenance therapy after week 14 responded to treatment with infliximab 
10 mg/kg. 
Improvements in quality of life measures, a reduction in disease-related hospitalisations and 
corticosteroid use were seen in the infliximab maintenance groups compared with the placebo 
maintenance group at weeks 30 and 54. 
Infliximab with or without AZA was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, active comparator study 
(SONIC) of 508 adult patients with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease (CDAI ≥220 ≤450) who were 
naive to biologics and immunosuppressants and had a median disease duration of 2.3 years. At 
baseline 27.4% of patients were receiving systemic corticosteroids, 14.2% of patients were receiving 
budesonide, and 54.3% of patients were receiving 5-ASA compounds. Patients were randomised to 
receive AZA monotherapy, infliximab monotherapy, or infliximab plus AZA combination therapy. 
Infliximab was administered at a dose of 5 mg/kg at weeks 0, 2, 6, and then every 8 weeks. AZA was 
given at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg daily. 
The primary endpoint of the study was corticosteroid-free clinical remission at week 26, defined as 
patients in clinical remission (CDAI of <150) who, for at least 3 weeks, had not taken oral systemic 
corticosteroids (prednisone or equivalent) or budesonide at a dose >6 mg/day. For results see Table 8. 
The proportions of patients with mucosal healing at week 26 were significantly greater in the 
infliximab plus AZA combination (43.9%, p<0.001) and infliximab monotherapy groups (30.1%, 
p=0.023) compared to the AZA monotherapy group (16.5%). 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
Percent of patients achieving corticosteroid-free clinical remission at Week 26, SONIC 
AZA 
Monotherapy 
Infliximab 
Monotherapy 
Infliximab + AZA 
Combination therapy 
Week 26 
All randomised patients 
30.0% 
(51/170) 
44.4% (75/169) 
(p=0.006)* 
56.8% (96/169) 
(p<0.001)* 
*  p-values represent each infliximab treatment group vs. AZA monotherapy. 
Similar trends in the achievement of corticosteroid-free clinical remission were observed at week 50. 
Furthermore, improved quality of life as measured by IBDQ was observed with infliximab. 
Induction treatment in fistulising active Crohn’s disease 
The efficacy was assessed in a randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study in 94 patients 
with fistulising Crohn’s disease who had fistulae that were of at least 3 months’ duration. Thirty one of 
these patients were treated with infliximab intravenous formulation 5 mg/kg. Approximately 93% of 
the patients had previously received antibiotic or immunosuppressive therapy. 
Concurrent use of stable doses of conventional therapies was permitted, and 83% of patients continued 
to receive at least one of these therapies. Patients received three doses of either placebo or infliximab 
at weeks 0, 2 and 6. Patients were followed up to 26 weeks. The primary endpoint was the proportion 
of patients who experienced a clinical response, defined as ≥50% reduction from baseline in the 
number of fistulae draining upon gentle compression on at least two consecutive visits (4 weeks apart), 
without an increase in the use of medicinal products or surgery for Crohn’s disease. 
Sixty eight percent (21/31) of infliximab-treated patients receiving a 5 mg/kg dose regimen achieved a 
clinical response vs. 26% (8/31) placebo-treated patients (p=0.002). The median time to onset of 
response in the infliximab-treated group was 2 weeks. The median duration of response was 12 weeks. 
Additionally, closure of all fistulae was achieved in 55% of infliximab-treated patients compared with 
13% of placebo-treated patients (p=0.001). 
Maintenance treatment in fistulising active Crohn’s disease 
The efficacy of repeated infusions with infliximab in patients with fistulising Crohn’s disease was 
studied in a 1-year clinical study (ACCENT II). A total of 306 patients received 3 doses of intravenous 
infliximab 5 mg/kg at week 0, 2 and 6. At baseline, 87% of the patients had perianal fistulae, 14% had 
abdominal fistulae, 9% had rectovaginal fistulae. The median CDAI score was 180. At week 14, 
282 patients were assessed for clinical response and randomised to receive either placebo or 5 mg/kg 
infliximab every 8 weeks through week 46. 
Week-14 responders (195/282) were analysed for the primary endpoint, which was time from 
randomisation to loss of response (see Table 9). Corticosteroid tapering was permitted after week 6. 
Table 9 
Effects on response rate, data from ACCENT II (Week-14 responders) 
Median time to loss of response 
through week 54 
Week 54 
Fistula Response (%)a 
Complete fistula response (%)b 
Placebo 
Maintenance 
(n=99) 
14 weeks 
ACCENT II (Week-14 responders) 
Infliximab 
Maintenance 
(5 mg/kg) 
(n=96) 
>40 weeks 
p-value 
<0.001 
0.001 
0.009 
46.2 
36.3 
23.5 
19.4 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  A ≥50% reduction from baseline in the number of draining fistulas over a period of ≥4 weeks. 
b  Absence of any draining fistulas. 
Beginning at week 22, patients who initially responded to treatment and subsequently lost their 
response were eligible to cross over to active re-treatment every 8 weeks at a dose of infliximab 
5 mg/kg higher than the dose to which they were originally randomised. Among patients in the 
infliximab 5 mg/kg group who crossed over because of loss of fistula response after week 22, 57% 
(12/21) responded to re-treatment with infliximab 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 
There was no significant difference between placebo and infliximab for the proportion of patients with 
sustained closure of all fistulas through week 54, for symptoms such as proctalgia, abscesses and 
urinary tract infection or for number of newly developed fistulas during treatment. 
Maintenance therapy with infliximab every 8 weeks significantly reduced disease-related 
hospitalisations and surgeries compared with placebo. Furthermore, a reduction in corticosteroid use 
and improvements in quality of life were observed. 
Subcutaneous formulation 
The efficacy of subcutaneous infliximab in active Crohn’s disease and active ulcerative colitis patients 
was assessed in an open-label, randomised, parallel-group, Phase I study consisting of two parts: Part 
1 to determine the optimal dose of subcutaneous infliximab and Part 2 to demonstrate non-inferiority 
in terms of PK of subcutaneous infliximab compared to intravenous infliximab treatment. 
In Part 1 of this study, 45 patients with active Crohn’s disease were enrolled to receive 2 doses of 
Remsima 5 mg/kg intravenously at Weeks 0 and 2 and subsequently 44 patients were randomised into 
four cohorts to receive Remsima 5 mg/kg intravenously (n=13) at Week 6 and every 8 weeks up to 
Week 54, Remsima 120 mg subcutaneously (n=11), Remsima 180 mg subcutaneously (n=12) or 
Remsima 240 mg subcutaneously (n=8) at Week 6 and every 2 weeks up to Week 54.  
In Part 2 of this study, among 136 patients (57 patients with active Crohn’s disease and 79 patients 
with active ulcerative colitis) who were enrolled to receive 2 doses of Remsima 5 mg/kg intravenously 
at Weeks 0 and 2, 66 patients (28 patients with active Crohn’s disease and 38 patients with active 
ulcerative colitis) were randomised to receive Remsima 120/ 240 mg subcutaneously at Week 6 and 
every 2 weeks up to Week 54, while 65 patients (25 patients with active Crohn’s disease and 40 
patients with active ulcerative colitis) were randomised to receive Remsima 5 mg/kg intravenously at 
Week 6, 14 and 22 and then switched to Remsima 120/ 240 mg subcutaneous formulation at Week 30 
once-every 2 weeks up to Week 54. The dosage of Remsima 120/ 240 mg subcutaneous formulation 
was determined based on the patient’s body weight at Week 6 for those who received Remsima 
subcutaneously and at Week 30 for those who switched to Remsima subcutaneous formulation 
(Remsima subcutaneous 120 mg for patients <80 kg; 240 mg for patients ≥80 kg). 
In active Crohn’s disease patients, the descriptive efficacy results following Remsima 120 mg 
subcutaneous formulation were generally comparable to Remsima 5 mg/kg intravenous formulation in 
terms of clinical response (CDAI-70 response defined as a decrease in CDAI by ≥70 points and 
CDAI-100 response defined as ≥100 points from baseline), clinical remission (defined as an absolute 
CDAI score of <150 points) and endoscopy assessments (endoscopic response defined as a decrease in 
≥50% of overall Simplified Endoscopic Activity Score for Crohn’s Disease (SES-CD) score from the 
baseline value and endoscopic remission defined as an absolute SES-CD score of ≤2 points). 
Adult ulcerative colitis 
Intravenous formulation 
The safety and efficacy of intravenous infliximab were assessed in two (ACT 1 and ACT 2) 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in adult patients with moderately to 
severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12; Endoscopy subscore ≥ 2) with an inadequate 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
response to conventional therapies [oral corticosteroids, aminosalicylates and/or immunomodulators 
(6-MP, AZA)]. Concomitant stable doses of oral aminosalicylates, corticosteroids, and/or 
immunomodulatory agents were permitted. In both studies, patients were randomised to receive either 
placebo, 5 mg/kg infliximab, or 10 mg/kg infliximab at weeks 0, 2, 6, 14 and 22, and in ACT 1 at 
weeks 30, 38 and 46. Corticosteroid taper was permitted after week 8. 
Table 10 
Effects on clinical response, clinical remission and mucosal healing at Weeks 8 and 30. 
Combined data from ACT 1 & 2 
Infliximab 
10 mg/kg 
242 
Placebo 
244 
5 mg/kg 
242 
19.3% 
65.3% 
55.4% 
66.9% 
49.6% 
33.2% 
27.9% 
Subjects randomised 
Percentage of subjects in clinical response and in sustained clinical response 
Clinical response at Week 8a 
Clinical response at Week 30a 
Sustained response (clinical 
response at both Week 8 and 
Week 30)a 
Percentage of subjects in clinical remission and sustained remission 
Clinical remission at Week 8a 
Clinical remission at Week 30a 
Sustained remission(in remission 
at both Week 8 and Week 30)a 
5.3% 
Percentage of subjects with mucosal healing 
Mucosal healing at Week 8a 
32.4% 
Mucosal healing at Week 30a 
27.5% 
a  p <0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs. placebo. 
61.2% 
48.3% 
60.3% 
52.9% 
10.2% 
13.1% 
36.4% 
29.8% 
29.8% 
36.4% 
24.4% 
19.0% 
49.6% 
45.0% 
Combined 
484 
66.1% 
52.5% 
47.3% 
33.1% 
33.1% 
21.7% 
60.7% 
50.6% 
The efficacy of infliximab through week 54 was assessed in the ACT 1 study. 
At 54 weeks, 44.9% of patients in the combined infliximab treatment group were in clinical response 
compared to 19.8% in the placebo treatment group (p<0.001). Clinical remission and mucosal healing 
occurred in a greater proportion of patients in the combined infliximab treatment group compared to 
the placebo treatment group at week 54 (34.6% vs. 16.5%, p<0.001 and 46.1% vs. 18.2%, p<0.001, 
respectively). The proportions of patients in sustained response and sustained remission at week 54 
were greater in the combined infliximab treatment group than in the placebo treatment group (37.9% 
vs. 14.0%, p<0.001; and 20.2% vs. 6.6%, p<0.001, respectively). 
A greater proportion of patients in the combined infliximab treatment group were able to discontinue 
corticosteroids while remaining in clinical remission compared to the placebo treatment group at both 
week 30 (22.3% vs. 7.2%, p <0.001, pooled ACT 1 & ACT 2 data) and week 54 (21.0% vs. 8.9%, 
p=0.022, ACT 1 data). 
The pooled data analysis from the ACT 1 and ACT 2 studies and their extensions, analysed from 
baseline through 54 weeks, demonstrated a reduction of ulcerative colitis-related hospitalisations and 
surgical procedures with infliximab treatment. The number of ulcerative colitis-related hospitalisations 
was significantly lower in the 5 and 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment groups than in the placebo group 
(mean number of hospitalisations per 100 subject-years: 21 and 19 vs. 40 in the placebo group; 
p=0.019 and p=0.007, respectively). The number of ulcerative colitis-related surgical procedures was 
also lower in the 5 and 10 mg/kg infliximab treatment groups than in the placebo group (mean number 
of surgical procedures per 100 subject-years: 22 and 19 vs. 34; p=0.145 and p=0.022, respectively). 
The proportion of subjects who underwent colectomy at any time within 54 weeks following the first 
infusion of study agent were collected and pooled from the ACT 1 and ACT 2 studies and their 
extensions. Fewer subjects underwent colectomy in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group (28/242 or 11.6% 
[N.S.]) and the 10 mg/kg infliximab group (18/242 or 7.4% [p=0.011]) than in the placebo group 
(36/244; 14.8%). 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The reduction in incidence of colectomy was also examined in another randomised, double-blind study 
(C0168Y06) in hospitalised patients (n=45) with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis who 
failed to respond to intravenous corticosteroids and who were therefore at higher risk for colectomy. 
Significantly fewer colectomies occurred within 3 months of study infusion in patients who received a 
single dose of 5 mg/kg infliximab compared to patients who received placebo (29.2% vs. 66.7% 
respectively, p=0.017). 
In ACT 1 and ACT 2, infliximab improved quality of life, confirmed by statistically significant 
improvement in both a disease specific measure, IBDQ, and by improvement in the generic 36-item 
short form survey SF-36. 
Subcutaneous formulation 
The efficacy of subcutaneous infliximab in active ulcerative colitis patients was assessed in Part 2 of 
an open-label, randomised, parallel-group, Phase I study. For study details, see Section 5.1 on Crohn’s 
disease, subcutaneous formulation. 
In active ulcerative colitis patients, the descriptive efficacy results following Remsima 120 mg 
subcutaneous formulation were generally comparable to Remsima 5 mg/kg intravenous formulation in 
terms of clinical response (defined as a decrease from baseline in total Mayo score of at least 3 points 
and at least 30% or a decrease from baseline in partial Mayo score at least 2 points, with an 
accompanying decrease from baseline in the subscore for rectal bleeding of at least 1 point, or an 
absolute subscore for rectal bleeding of 0 or 1), clinical remission (defined as a total Mayo score of ≤2 
points with no individual subscore exceeding 1 point, or partial Mayo score of ≤1 point) and mucosal 
healing (defined as absolute endoscopic subscore of 0 or 1 from Mayo Scoring System). 
Adult ankylosing spondylitis 
Intravenous formulation 
Efficacy and safety of infliximab intravenous formulation were assessed in two multicentre, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (Bath 
Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index [BASDAI] score ≥ 4 and spinal pain ≥ 4 on a scale of 
1-10). 
In the first study (P01522), which had a 3-month double-blind phase, 70 patients received either 
5 mg/kg infliximab or placebo at weeks 0, 2, 6 (35 patients in each group). At week 12, placebo 
patients were switched to infliximab 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks up to week 54. After the first year of the 
study, 53 patients continued into an open-label extension to week 102. 
In the second clinical study (ASSERT), 279 patients were randomised to receive either placebo 
(Group 1, n=78) or 5 mg/kg infliximab (Group 2, n=201) at 0, 2 and 6 weeks and every 6 weeks to 
week 24. Thereafter, all subjects continued on infliximab every 6 weeks to week 96. Group 1 received 
5 mg/kg infliximab. In Group 2, starting with the week 36 infusion, patients who had a BASDAI ≥3 at 
2 consecutive visits, received 7.5 mg/kg infliximab every 6 weeks thereafter through week 96. 
In ASSERT, improvement in signs and symptoms was observed as early as week 2. At week 24, the 
number of ASAS 20 responders was 15/78 (19%) in the placebo group, and 123/201 (61%) in the 
5 mg/kg infliximab group (p<0.001). There were 95 subjects from group 2 who continued on 5 mg/kg 
every 6 weeks. At 102 weeks there were 80 subjects still on infliximab treatment and among those, 71 
(89%) were ASAS 20 responders. 
In P01522, improvement in signs and symptoms was also observed as early as week 2. At week 12, 
the number of BASDAI 50 responders were 3/35 (9%) in the placebo group, and 20/35 (57%) in the 
5 mg/kg group (p<0.01). There were 53 subjects who continued on 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks. At 
102 weeks there were 49 subjects still on infliximab treatment and among those, 30 (61%) were 
BASDAI 50 responders. 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In both studies, physical function and quality of life as measured by the BASFI and the physical 
component score of the SF-36 were also improved significantly. 
Adult psoriatic arthritis 
Intravenous formulation 
Efficacy and safety of infliximab intravenous formulation were assessed in two multicentre, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in patients with active psoriatic arthritis. 
In the first clinical study (IMPACT), efficacy and safety of infliximab were studied in 104 patients 
with active polyarticular psoriatic arthritis. During the 16-week double-blind phase, patients received 
either 5 mg/kg infliximab or placebo at weeks 0, 2, 6, and 14 (52 patients in each group). Starting at 
week 16, placebo patients were switched to infliximab and all patients subsequently received 5 mg/kg 
infliximab every 8 weeks up to week 46. After the first year of the study, 78 patients continued into an 
open-label extension to week 98. 
In the second clinical study (IMPACT 2), efficacy and safety of infliximab were studied in 
200 patients with active psoriatic arthritis (≥5 swollen joints and ≥5 tender joints). Forty six percent of 
patients continued on stable doses of methotrexate (≤25 mg/week). During the 24-week double-blind 
phase, patients received either 5 mg/kg infliximab or placebo at weeks 0, 2, 6, 14, and 22 (100 patients 
in each group). At week 16, 47 placebo patients with <10% improvement from baseline in both 
swollen and tender joint counts were switched to infliximab induction (early escape). At week 24, all 
placebo-treated patients crossed over to infliximab induction. Dosing continued for all patients 
through week 46. 
Key efficacy results for IMPACT and IMPACT 2 are shown in Table 11 below: 
Patients 
randomised 
ACR response  
(% of 
patients) 
N 
ACR 20 
response* 
ACR 50 
response* 
ACR 70 
response* 
PASI 
response 
(% of 
patients)b 
N 
PASI 
75 response** 
Table 11 
Effects on ACR and PASI in IMPACT and IMPACT 2 
Placebo 
(Week 16) 
52 
IMPACT 
Infliximab 
(Week 16) 
52 
Infliximab 
(Week 98) 
N/Aa 
Placebo 
(Week 24) 
100 
IMPACT 2* 
Infliximab 
(Week 24) 
100 
Infliximab 
(Week 54) 
100 
52 
52 
78 
100 
100 
100 
5 (10%) 
34 (65%) 
48 (62%) 
16 (16%) 
54 (54%) 
53 (53%) 
0 (0%) 
24 (46%) 
35 (45%) 
4 (4%) 
41 (41%) 
33 (33%) 
0 (0%) 
15 (29%) 
27 (35%) 
2 (2%) 
27 (27%) 
20 (20%) 
87 
83 
82 
1 (1%) 
50 (60%) 
40 (48.8%) 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*  ITT-analysis where subjects with missing data were included as non-responders. 
a  Week 98 data for IMPACT includes combined placebo crossover and infliximab patients who 
entered the open-label extension. 
b  Based on patients with PASI >2.5 at baseline for IMPACT, and patients with >3% BSA psoriasis 
skin involvement at baseline in IMPACT 2. 
** PASI 75 response for IMPACT not included due to low N; p<0.001 for infliximab vs. placebo at 
week 24 for IMPACT 2. 
In IMPACT and IMPACT 2, clinical responses were observed as early as week 2 and were maintained 
through week 98 and week 54, respectively. Efficacy has been demonstrated with or without 
concomitant use of methotrexate. Decreases in parameters of peripheral activity characteristic of 
psoriatic arthritis (such as number of swollen joints, number of painful/tender joints, dactylitis and 
presence of enthesopathy) were seen in the infliximab-treated patients. 
Radiographic changes were assessed in IMPACT 2. Radiographs of hands and feet were collected at 
baseline, weeks 24 and 54. Infliximab treatment reduced the rate of progression of peripheral joint 
damage compared with placebo treatment at the week 24 primary endpoint as measured by change 
from baseline in total modified vdH-S score (mean ± SD score was 0.82 ± 2.62 in the placebo group 
compared with -0.70 ± 2.53 in the infliximab group; p<0.001). In the infliximab group, the mean 
change in total modified vdH-S score remained below 0 at the week 54 timepoint. 
Infliximab-treated patients demonstrated significant improvement in physical function as assessed by 
HAQ. Significant improvements in health-related quality of life were also demonstrated as measured 
by the physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 in IMPACT 2. 
Adult psoriasis 
Intravenous formulation 
The efficacy of infliximab intravenous formulation was assessed in two multicentre, randomised, 
double-blind studies: SPIRIT and EXPRESS. Patients in both studies had plaque psoriasis (Body 
Surface Area [BSA] ≥10% and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index [PASI] score ≥12). The primary 
endpoint in both studies was the percent of patients who achieved ≥75% improvement in PASI from 
baseline at week 10. 
SPIRIT evaluated the efficacy of infliximab induction therapy in 249 patients with plaque psoriasis 
that had previously received PUVA or systemic therapy. Patients received either 3 or 5 mg/kg 
infliximab or placebo infusions at weeks 0, 2 and 6. Patients with a PGA score ≥3 were eligible to 
receive an additional infusion of the same treatment at week 26. 
In SPIRIT, the proportion of patients achieving PASI 75 at week 10 was 71.7% in the 3 mg/kg 
infliximab group, 87.9% in the 5 mg/kg infliximab group, and 5.9% in the placebo group (p<0.001). 
By week 26, twenty weeks after the last induction dose, 30% of patients in the 5 mg/kg group and 
13.8% of patients in the 3 mg/kg group were PASI 75 responders. Between weeks 6 and 26, symptoms 
of psoriasis gradually returned with a median time to disease relapse of >20 weeks. No rebound was 
observed. 
EXPRESS evaluated the efficacy of infliximab induction and maintenance therapy in 378 patients 
with plaque psoriasis. Patients received 5 mg/kg infliximab- or placebo-infusions at weeks 0, 2 and 6 
followed by maintenance therapy every 8 weeks through week 22 in the placebo group and through 
week 46 in the infliximab group. At week 24, the placebo group crossed over to infliximab induction 
therapy (5 mg/kg) followed by infliximab maintenance therapy (5 mg/kg). Nail psoriasis was assessed 
using the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI). Prior therapy with PUVA, methotrexate, ciclosporin, 
or acitretin had been received by 71.4% of patients, although they were not necessarily therapy 
resistant. Key results are presented in Table 12. In infliximab treated subjects, significant PASI 50 
responses were apparent at the first visit (week 2) and PASI 75 responses by the second visit (week 6). 
Efficacy was similar in the subgroup of patients that were exposed to previous systemic therapies 
compared to the overall study population. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 
Summary of PASI response, PGA response and percent of patients with all nails cleared at 
Weeks 10, 24 and 50. EXPRESS 
Placebo → Infliximab 
5 mg/kg 
(at week 24) 
Infliximab 
5 mg/kg 
77 
1 (1.3%) 
3 (3.9%) 
5 (6.5%) 
2 (2.6%) 
15 (19.5%) 
77 
1 (1.3%) 
2 (2.6%) 
6 (7.8%) 
3 (3.9%) 
14 (18.2%) 
301 
172 (57.1%) a 
242 (80.4%) a 
274 (91.0%) 
242 (82.9%) ab 
275 (94.2%) ab 
Week 10 
N 
≥90% improvement 
≥75% improvement  
≥50% improvement 
PGA of cleared (0) or minimal (1) 
PGA of cleared (0), minimal (1), or 
mild (2) 
Week 24 
N 
≥90% improvement 
≥75% improvement  
≥50% improvement 
PGA of cleared (0) or minimal (1) 
PGA of cleared (0), minimal (1), or 
mild (2) 
Week 50 
N 
≥90% improvement 
≥75% improvement  
≥50% improvement 
PGA of cleared (0) or minimal (1) 
PGA of cleared (0), minimal (1), or 
mild (2) 
All nails clearedc  
Week 10 
Week 24 
Week 50 
a  p <0.001, for each infliximab treatment group vs. control. 
b  n = 292. 
c  Analysis was based on subjects with nail psoriasis at baseline (81.8% of subjects). Mean baseline 
276 
161 (58.3%) a 
227 (82.2%) a 
248 (89.9%) 
203 (73.6%) a 
246 (89.1%) a 
281 
127 (45.2%) 
170 (60.5%) 
193 (68.7%) 
149 (53.0%) 
189 (67.3%) 
68 
34 (50.0%) 
52 (76.5%) 
61 (89.7%) 
46 (67.6%) 
59 (86.8%) 
16/235 (6.8%) 
58/223 (26.0%) a 
92/226 (40.7%) 
1/65(1.5%) 
3/65 (4.6%) 
27/64 (42.2%) 
NAPSI scores were 4.6 and 4.3 in infliximab and placebo group. 
Significant improvements from baseline were demonstrated in DLQI (p<0.001) and the physical and 
mental component scores of the SF 36 (p<0.001 for each component comparison). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with the 
reference  medicinal  product  containing  infliximab  in  all  subsets  of  the  paediatric  population  in 
rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis and 
Crohn’s disease (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption and distribution  
Single subcutaneous injections of 120, 180 and 240 mg of infliximab yielded approximately dose 
proportional increases in the maximum serum concentration (Cmax) and area under the concentration-
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
time curve (AUC). The apparent volume of distribution during the terminal phase (mean of 7.3 to 8.8 
litres) was not dependent on the administered dose.  
After single doses of 120, 180 and 240 mg of subcutaneous infliximab administered to healthy 
subjects, the mean Cmax values were 10.0, 15.1 and 23.1 µg/mL, respectively, and for all doses 
infliximab could be detected in the serum for at least 12 weeks thereafter.  
The bioavailability of subcutaneous infliximab, estimated in a population PK model, was 62% (95% 
CI: 60% - 64%).  
After administration of infliximab 120 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks (from Week 6 after 2 doses 
of intravenous infliximab at Weeks 0 and 2) to patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
concomitantly treated with MTX, the median (CV%) Ctrough level at Week 22 (steady state) was 
12.8 µg/mL (80.1%).  
After administration of infliximab 120 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks (from Week 6 after 2 doses 
of intravenous infliximab at Weeks 0 and 2) to patients with active Crohn’s disease and active 
ulcerative colitis, the median (CV%) Ctrough level at Week 22 (steady state) was 20.1 µg/mL (48.9%). 
Based on PK results from clinical studies in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis, active Crohn’s 
disease and active ulcerative colitis and population PK modelling, Ctrough levels at steady state would 
be higher after administration of infliximab 120 mg subcutaneous formulation given every 2 weeks 
compared with infliximab 5 mg/kg intravenous formulation given every 8 weeks. 
For the dosing regimen with subcutaneous loading in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, the predicted 
median AUC value was 17,400 μg·h/mL from Week 0 to 6 which was approximately 1.8 fold lower 
than the predicted median AUC value for the dosing regimen with infliximab intravenous loading 
doses (32,100 μg·h/mL). Whereas, the predicted median AUC values from Week 6 to 14 were 
comparable between the two dosing regimens with subcutaneous loading and intravenous loading 
(19,600 and 18,100 μg·h/mL, respectively).  
Elimination 
The elimination pathways for infliximab have not been characterised. Unchanged infliximab was not 
detected in urine. No major age- or weight-related differences in clearance or volume of distribution 
were observed in rheumatoid arthritis patients.  
In studies in healthy subjects, the mean (± SD) apparent clearance of Remsima 120 mg administered 
subcutaneously was 19.3 ± 6.9 mL/hr.  
In the RA patients, the mean (± SD) apparent clearance of Remsima 120 mg subcutaneous at steady 
state was 18.8 ± 8.3 mL/hr. In the active Crohn’s disease and active ulcerative colitis patients, the 
mean (± SD) apparent clearance of Remsima 120 mg subcutaneous at steady state was 16.1 ± 
6.9 mL/hr. 
The mean terminal half-life ranged from 11.3 days to 13.7 days for 120, 180 and 240 mg of 
subcutaneous infliximab administered to healthy subjects.  
Special populations 
Elderly 
The pharmacokinetics of infliximab injected via subcutaneous route in elderly patients has not been 
studied.  
Paediatric population 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subcutaneous administration of Remsima is not recommended for paediatric use and no data are 
available on the use of Remsima administered subcutaneously in the paediatric population. 
Hepatic and renal impairment 
Studies with infliximab have not been performed in patients with liver or renal disease. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Infliximab does not cross react with TNFα from species other than human and chimpanzees. 
Therefore, conventional preclinical safety data with infliximab are limited. In a developmental toxicity 
study conducted in mice using an analogous antibody that selectively inhibits the functional activity of 
mouse TNFα, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. In a 
fertility and general reproductive function study, the number of pregnant mice was reduced following 
administration of the same analogous antibody. It is not known whether this finding was due to effects 
on the males and/or the females. In a 6-month repeated dose toxicity study in mice, using the same 
analogous antibody against mouse TNFα, crystalline deposits were observed on the lens capsule of 
some of the treated male mice. No specific ophthalmologic examinations have been performed in 
patients to investigate the relevance of this finding for humans. 
Long-term studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of infliximab. 
Studies in mice deficient in TNFα demonstrated no increase in tumours when challenged with known 
tumour initiators and/or promoters. 
The subcutaneous administration of Remsima to New Zealand White rabbits was well tolerated at the 
actual concentration to be used in humans. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Acetic acid 
Sodium acetate trihydrate 
Sorbitol 
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products.  
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).  
Do not freeze. Keep the medicinal product in its outer carton in order to protect from light.  
The medicinal product may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a period of up to 
28 days. The medicinal product must be discarded if not used within the 28-day period.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in single-use pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a plunger 
stopper (flurotec-coated elastomer) and needle with a rigid needle shield. 
Packs of: 
•  1 prefilled syringe (1 mL sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
•  2 prefilled syringes (1 mL sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
•  4 prefilled syringes (1 mL sterile solution) with 4 alcohol pads. 
•  6 prefilled syringes (1 mL sterile solution) with 6 alcohol pads. 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in single-use pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard. 
The syringe is made from type I glass with a plunger stopper (flurotec-coated elastomer) and needle 
with a rigid needle shield. 
Packs of: 
•  1 prefilled syringe with automatic needle guard (1 mL sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
•  2 prefilled syringes with automatic needle guard (1 mL sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
•  4 prefilled syringes with automatic needle guard (1 mL sterile solution) with 4 alcohol pads. 
•  6 prefilled syringes with automatic needle guard (1 mL sterile solution) with 6 alcohol pads. 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in single-use pre-filled pen. The syringe inside the pen is made 
from type 1 glass with a plunger stopper (flurotec-coated elastomer) and needle with a rigid needle 
shield. 
Packs of: 
•  1 prefilled pen (1 mL sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
•  2 prefilled pens (1 mL sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
•  4 prefilled pens (1 mL sterile solution) with 4 alcohol pads.  
•  6 prefilled pens (1 mL sterile solution) with 6 alcohol pads.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Remsima is a solution that is clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown. Do not use if the solution is 
cloudy, discoloured or contains visible particulate matter. 
After use, place the pre-filled syringe/ pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard/ pre-filled pen 
into a puncture resistant container and discard as required by local regulations. Do not recycle the 
injecting device. Always keep the medicinal product out of the sight and reach of children. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/853/006 
EU/1/13/853/007 
EU/1/13/853/008 
EU/1/13/853/009 
EU/1/13/853/010 
EU/1/13/853/011 
EU/1/13/853/012 
EU/1/13/853/013 
EU/1/13/853/014 
EU/1/13/853/015 
EU/1/13/853/016 
EU/1/13/853/017 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 November 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
CELLTRION, Inc. 
23, Academy-ro, 
Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 22014 
Republic of Korea 
CELLTRION, Inc. (Plant II, CLT2) 
20, Academy-ro 51 beon-gil, 
Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 22014 
Republic of Korea 
Lonza Biologics Tuas Pte Ltd  
35 Tuas South Avenue 6,  
Singapore 637377, Singapore 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstraße 13,  
89231 Neu Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Kymos, SL 
Ronda De Can Fatjó 7B, Parc Tecnològic del Vallès, 
Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona, 08290, 
Spain 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstraße 49 
55218 Ingelheim am Rhein 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)  
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The educational programme consists of a patient reminder card to be held by the patient. The card is 
aimed at both serving as a reminder to record the dates and outcomes of specific tests and to facilitate 
the patient sharing of special information with healthcare professionals(s) (HCPs) treating the patient 
about on-going treatment with the product. 
The patient reminder card shall contain the following key messages: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
A reminder to patients to show the patient reminder card to all treating HCPs, including in 
conditions of emergency, and a message for HCPs that the patient is using Remsima 
A statement that the brand name and batch number should be recorded 
Provision to record the type, date, and result of TB screenings 
That treatment with Remsima may increase the risks of serious infections/sepsis, opportunistic 
infections, tuberculosis, hepatitis B reactivation, and BCG breakthrough in infants with in utero 
or breast-feeding exposure to infliximab, and when to seek attention from a HCP 
Contact details of the prescriber 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Remsima 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
infliximab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial contains 100 mg of infliximab.  
After reconstitution one ml contains 10 mg of infliximab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sucrose, polysorbate 80, sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, disodium phosphate 
dihydrate. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion.  
1 vial 
2 vials 
3 vials 
4 vials 
5 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use. 
Reconstitute and dilute before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP, if not refrigerated ___________________ 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Can be stored at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a single period up to 6 months, but not exceeding 
the original expiry date. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/853/001 1 vial 
EU/1/13/853/002 2 vials 
EU/1/13/853/003 3 vials 
EU/1/13/853/004 4 vials 
EU/1/13/853/005 5 vials 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Remsima 100 mg 
17.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
83 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Remsima 100 mg powder for concentrate 
infliximab 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
100 mg 
6. 
OTHER 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE WITH AUTOMATIC NEEDLE GUARD 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
infliximab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 1 mL single dose pre-filled syringe contains 120 mg of infliximab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, sorbitol, polysorbate 80, water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe with 2 alcohol pads 
1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard with 2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled syringes with 2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled syringes with needle guard with 2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled syringes with 4 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled syringes with needle guard with 4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled syringes with 6 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled syringes with needle guard with 6 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. Keep the pre-filled syringe in its package in order to protect from 
light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
CELLTRION Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/853/006 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/13/853/009 1 pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard 
EU/1/13/853/007 2 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/13/853/010 2 pre-filled syringes with automatic needle guard 
EU/1/13/853/008 4 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/13/853/011 4 pre-filled syringes with automatic needle guard 
EU/1/13/853/015 6 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/13/853/016 6 pre-filled syringes with automatic needle guard 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Remsima 120 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN 
87 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
LABEL FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE WITH AUTOMATIC NEEDLE GUARD 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Remsima 120 mg injection 
infliximab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
120 mg 
6. 
OTHER 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
infliximab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 1 mL single dose pre-filled pen contains 120 mg of infliximab.  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, sorbitol, polysorbate 80, water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled pen with 2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled pens with 2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled pens with 4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled pens with 6 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. Keep the pre-filled pen in its package in order to protect from 
light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
CELLTRION Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/853/012 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/13/853/013 2 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/13/853/014 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/13/853/017 6 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Remsima 120 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN  
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
LABEL FOR PRE-FILLED PEN  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Remsima 120 mg injection 
infliximab 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
120 mg 
6. 
OTHER 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
Before treatment with Remsima 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have an infection 
even if it is a very minor one. 
It is very important that you tell your 
doctor if you have ever had tuberculosis 
(TB), or if you have been in close contact 
with someone who has had TB. Your 
doctor will test you to see if you have TB. 
Ask your doctor to record the type and 
date of your last screening(s) for TB on 
the card. 
Tell your doctor if you have hepatitis B or 
if you know or suspect you are a carrier of 
the hepatitis B virus. 
During treatment with Remsima 
• 
Tell your doctor straight away if you have 
signs of an infection. Signs include a fever, 
feeling tired, (persistent) cough, shortness 
of breath, weight loss, night sweats, 
diarrhoea, wounds, dental problems, 
burning when urinating or ‘flu-like’ signs. 
Pregnancy, Breast-feeding and 
Vaccinations 
• 
In case you have received Remsima while 
you were pregnant or if you are breast-
feeding, it is important that you inform your 
baby’s doctor about it before your baby 
receives any vaccine. Your baby should not 
receive a ‘live vaccine’, such as BCG (used 
to prevent tuberculosis) within 12 months 
after birth or while you are breast-feeding, 
unless your baby’s doctor recommends 
otherwise. 
Keep this card with you for 4 months after your 
last dose of Remsima, or in case of pregnancy, 
for 12 months after the birth of your baby. Side 
effects may occur a long time after your last 
dose. 
Remsima 
Infliximab 
Patient Reminder Card 
Show this card to any doctor involved in your 
treatment. 
This Patient Reminder Card contains important 
safety information that you need to be aware of 
before and during treatment with Remsima. 
Name patient: 
Name doctor: 
Telephone number doctor: 
When starting a new card, please keep this card 
as a reference for 4 months after your last dose 
of Remsima. 
Please read the Remsima ‘Package Leaflet’ 
carefully before you start using this medicine. 
Date of Remsima therapy initiation: 
Current administrations: 
It is important that you and your doctor record 
the brand name and batch number of your 
medicine. 
Brand name: 
Batch number: 
Ask your doctor to record the type and date of 
last screening(s) for tuberculosis (TB) below: 
Test:   
Date:   
Result:  
Test: 
Date: 
Result: 
Please make sure you also have a list of all other 
medicines that you are using with you at any 
visit to a healthcare professional. 
List of allergies: 
List of other medicines: 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Remsima 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
infliximab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a patient reminder card, which contains important safety 
information you need to be aware of before and during your treatment with Remsima. 
•  When starting a new card, keep this card as a reference for 4 months after your last dose of 
• 
• 
• 
Remsima. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Remsima is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Remsima 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Remsima will be given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Remsima 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Remsima is and what it is used for 
Remsima contains the active substance infliximab. Infliximab is a monoclonal antibody - a type of 
protein that attaches to a specific target in the body called TNF (tumour necrosis factor) alpha. 
Remsima belongs to a group of medicines called ‘TNF blockers’. It is used in adults for the following 
inflammatory diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease) 
Psoriasis. 
Remsima is also used in adults and children 6 years of age or older for: 
• 
• 
Crohn’s disease 
Ulcerative colitis. 
Remsima works by selectively attaching to TNF alpha and blocking its action. TNF alpha is involved 
in inflammatory processes of the body so blocking it can reduce the inflammation in your body. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. If you have active rheumatoid arthritis 
you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given 
Remsima which you will take with another medicine called methotrexate to: 
• 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
slow down the damage in your joints, 
improve your physical function. 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints, usually accompanied by psoriasis. If you 
have active psoriatic arthritis you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Remsima to: 
• 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
slow down the damage in your joints, 
improve your physical function. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease) 
Ankylosing spondylitis is an inflammatory disease of the spine. If you have ankylosing spondylitis 
you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given 
Remsima to: 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
improve your physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Psoriasis is an inflammatory disease of the skin. If you have moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, you 
will first be given other medicines or treatments, such as phototherapy. If these medicines or 
treatments do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to reduce the signs and symptoms of 
your disease. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the bowel. If you have ulcerative colitis you will first 
be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to 
treat your disease. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the bowel. If you have Crohn’s disease you will first be 
given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to: 
• 
• 
treat active Crohn’s disease, 
reduce the number of abnormal openings (fistulae) between your bowel and your skin that have 
not been controlled by other medicines or surgery. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Remsima 
You must not be given Remsima if 
• 
you are allergic to infliximab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6), 
you are allergic to proteins that come from mice, 
you have tuberculosis (TB) or another serious infection such as pneumonia or sepsis (serious 
bacterial infection of the blood), 
you have heart failure that is moderate or severe. 
• 
• 
• 
Do not use Remsima if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor before 
you are given Remsima. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before or during treatment with Remsima if you have: 
Had treatment with any medicine containing infliximab before 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have had treatment with medicines containing infliximab in the past and 
are now starting Remsima treatment again. 
If you have had a break in your treatment with infliximab of more than 16 weeks, there is a 
higher risk for allergic reactions when you start the treatment again. 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have an infection even if it is a very 
minor one. 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have ever lived in or travelled to an area 
where infections called histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis are common. 
These infections are caused by specific types of fungi that can affect the lungs or other parts of 
your body. 
You may get infections more easily when you are being treated with Remsima. If you are 
65 years of age or older, you have a greater risk. 
These infections may be serious and include tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, 
bacteria or other organisms in the environment and sepsis that may be life-threatening. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get signs of infection during treatment with Remsima. Signs 
include fever, cough, flu-like signs, feeling unwell, red or hot skin, wounds or dental problems. Your 
doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Remsima. 
• 
Tuberculosis (TB) 
• 
• 
• 
It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had TB or if you have been in 
close contact with someone who has had or has TB. 
Your doctor will test you to see if you have TB. Cases of TB have been reported in patients 
treated with infliximab, even in patients who have already been treated with medicines for TB. 
Your doctor will record these tests on your patient reminder card. 
If your doctor feels that you are at risk for TB, you may be treated with medicines for TB before 
you are given Remsima. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get signs of TB during treatment with Remsima. Signs include 
persistent cough, weight loss, feeling tired, fever, night sweats. 
Hepatitis B virus 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you are a carrier of hepatitis B or have ever 
had it. 
Tell your doctor if you think you might be at risk of contracting hepatitis B. 
Your doctor should test you for hepatitis B virus. 
Treatment with TNF blockers such as Remsima may result in reactivation of hepatitis B virus in 
patients who carry this virus, which can be life-threatening in some cases. 
If you experience reactivation of hepatitis B, your doctor may need to stop your treatment and 
may give you medicines such as effective antiviral therapy with supportive treatment. 
Heart problems 
Tell your doctor if you have any heart problems, such as mild heart failure. 
Your doctor will want to closely monitor your heart. 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get new or worsening signs of heart failure during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include shortness of breath or swelling of your feet. 
Cancer and lymphoma 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type 
of blood cancer) or any other cancer. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher risk of developing lymphoma. 
Children and adults taking Remsima may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Some patients who have received TNF-blockers, including infliximab have developed a rare 
type of cancer called hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma. Of these patients, most were teenage boys 
or young men and most had either Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis. This type of cancer has 
usually resulted in death. Almost all patients had also received medicines containing 
azathioprine or mercaptopurine in addition to TNF-blockers. 
Some patients treated with infliximab have developed certain kinds of skin cancer. If there are 
any changes in your skin or growths on the skin during or after therapy, tell your doctor. 
Some women being treated for rheumatoid arthritis with infliximab have developed cervical 
cancer. For women taking Remsima including those over 60 years of age, your doctor may 
recommend regular screening for cervical cancer. 
Lung disease or heavy smoking 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have a lung disease called chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or if you are a heavy smoker. 
Patients with COPD and patients who are heavy smokers may have a higher risk of developing 
cancer with Remsima treatment. 
Nervous system disease 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have or have ever had a problem that 
affects your nervous system. This includes multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barré syndrome, if you 
have fits or have been diagnosed with ‘optic neuritis’. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of a nerve disease during treatment with Remsima. 
Signs include changes in your vision, weakness in your arms or legs, numbness or tingling in any part 
of your body. 
Abnormal skin openings 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have any abnormal skin openings (fistulae) before you are given 
Remsima. 
Vaccinations 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you recently have had or are due to have a vaccine. 
You should receive recommended vaccinations before starting Remsima treatment. You may 
receive some vaccines during treatment with Remsima but you should not receive live vaccines 
(vaccines that contain a living but weakened infectious agent) while using Remsima because 
they may cause infections. 
If you received Remsima while you were pregnant, your baby may also be at higher risk for 
getting an infection as a result of receiving a live vaccine during the first year of life. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Remsima use so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine, including live 
vaccines such as the BCG vaccine (used to prevent tuberculosis).  
If you are breast-feeding, it is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare 
professionals about your Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. For more 
information see section on Pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
Therapeutic infectious agents 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you have recently received or are scheduled to receive treatment with a 
therapeutic infectious agent (such as BCG instillation used for the treatment of cancer). 
Operations or dental procedures 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are going to have any operations or dental procedures. 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Tell your surgeon or dentist that you are having treatment with Remsima by showing them your 
patient reminder card. 
Liver problems 
• 
• 
Some patients receiving infliximab have developed serious liver problems. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of liver problems during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include yellowing of the skin and eyes, dark-brown coloured urine, pain or 
swelling in the upper right side of the stomach area, joint pain, skin rashes, or fever. 
Low blood counts 
• 
• 
In some patients receiving infliximab, the body may not make enough of the blood cells that 
help fight infections or help stop bleeding. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of low blood counts during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include persistent fever, bleeding or bruising more easily, small red or purple 
spots caused by bleeding under the skin, or looking pale. 
Immune system disorder 
• 
• 
Some patients receiving infliximab have developed symptoms of an immune system disorder 
called lupus. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you develop symptoms of lupus during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include joint pain or a rash on cheeks or arms that is sensitive to the sun. 
Children and adolescents 
The information above also applies to children and adolescents. In addition: 
• 
• 
• 
Some children and teenage patients who have received TNF-blockers such as infliximab have 
developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted in death. 
More children taking infliximab developed infections as compared to adults. 
Children should receive recommended vaccinations before starting Remsima treatment. 
Children may receive some vaccines during treatment with Remsima but should not receive live 
vaccines while using Remsima. 
Remsima should only be used in children if they are being treated for Crohn’s disease or ulcerative 
colitis. These children must be 6 years of age or older. 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor before you are given 
Remsima. 
Other medicines and Remsima 
Patients who have inflammatory diseases already take medicines to treat their problem. These 
medicines may cause side effects. Your doctor will advise you what other medicines you must keep 
using while you are having Remsima. 
Tell your doctor if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines, including any 
other medicines to treat Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis or medicines obtained without a prescription, such as 
vitamins and herbal medicines. 
In particular, tell your doctor if you are using any of the following medicines: 
• 
• 
• 
Medicines that affect your immune system. 
Kineret (which contains anakinra). Remsima and Kineret should not be used together. 
Orencia (which contains abatacept). Remsima and Orencia should not be used together. 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While using Remsima you should not receive live vaccines. If you were using Remsima during 
pregnancy or if you are receiving Remsima while breast-feeding, tell your baby’s doctor and other 
health care professionals caring for your baby about your Remsima use before the baby receives any 
vaccines. 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using 
Remsima. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
• 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. Remsima should only be used during 
pregnancy or while breast-feeding if your doctor feels it is necessary for you. 
You should avoid getting pregnant when you are being treated with Remsima and for 6 months 
after you stop being treated with it. Discuss the use of contraception during this time with your 
doctor. 
If you received Remsima during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting 
an infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about your 
Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. If you received Remsima while pregnant, 
giving BCG vaccine (used to prevent tuberculosis) to your baby within 12 months after birth 
may result in infection with serious complications, including death. Live vaccines such as the 
the BCG vaccine should not be given to your baby within 12 months after birth, unless your 
baby’s doctor recommends otherwise. For more information see section on vaccination. 
If you are breast-feeding, it is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare 
professionals about your Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. Live vaccines 
should not be given to your baby while you are breast-feeding unless your baby’s doctor 
recommends otherwise. 
Severely decreased numbers of white blood cells have been reported in infants born to women 
treated with infliximab during pregnancy. If your baby has continual fevers or infections, 
contact your baby’s doctor immediately. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Driving and using machines 
Remsima is not likely to affect your ability to drive or use tools or machines. If you feel tired, dizzy, 
or unwell after having Remsima, do not drive or use any tools or machines. 
Remsima contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
However, before Remsima is given to you, it is mixed with a solution that contains sodium. Talk to 
your doctor if you are on a low salt diet. 
3. 
How to use Remsima 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
The usual dose is 3 mg for every kg of body weight. 
Psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease), psoriasis, ulcerative colitis and 
Crohn's disease 
The usual dose is 5 mg for every kg of body weight. 
How Remsima is given 
• 
• 
• 
Remsima will be given to you by your doctor or nurse. 
Your doctor or nurse will prepare the medicine for infusion. 
The medicine will be given as an infusion (drip) (over 2 hours) into one of your veins, usually in 
your arm. After the third treatment, your doctor may decide to give your dose of Remsima over 
1 hour. 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
You will be monitored while you are given Remsima and also for 1 to 2 hours afterwards. 
How much Remsima is given 
• 
The doctor will decide your dose and how often you will be given Remsima. This will depend 
on your disease, weight and how well you respond to Remsima. 
The table below shows how often you will usually have this medicine after your first dose. 
• 
2nd dose 
3rd dose 
Further doses 
2 weeks after your 1st dose 
6 weeks after your 1st dose 
Every 6 to 8 weeks depending on your disease  
Use in children and adolescents 
In children (6 years of age or older) treated for Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis, the recommended 
dose is the same as for adults. 
If you are given too much Remsima 
As this medicine is being given by your doctor or nurse, it is unlikely that you will be given too much. 
There are no known side effects of having too much of Remsima. 
If you forget or miss your Remsima infusion 
If you forget or miss an appointment to receive Remsima, make another appointment as soon as 
possible. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However some patients may experience serious side effects and may 
require treatment. Side effects may also occur after your treatment with Remsima has stopped. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following: 
• 
Signs of an allergic reaction such as swelling of your face, lips, mouth or throat which may 
cause difficulty in swallowing or breathing, skin rash, hives, swelling of the hands, feet or 
ankles. Some of these reactions may be serious or life-threatening. An allergic reaction could 
happen within 2 hours of your injection or later. More signs of allergic side effects that may 
happen up to 12 days after your injection include pain in the muscles, fever, joint or jaw pain, 
sore throat or headache. 
Signs of a heart problem such as chest discomfort or pain, arm pain, stomach pain, shortness 
of breath, anxiety, lightheadedness, dizziness, fainting, sweating, nausea (feeling sick), 
vomiting, fluttering or pounding in your chest, a fast or a slow heartbeat, and swelling of your 
feet. 
Signs of infection (including TB) such as fever, feeling tired, cough which may be persistent, 
shortness of breath, flu-like symptoms, weight loss, night sweats, diarrhoea, wounds, collection 
of pus in the gut or around the anus (abscess), dental problems or burning sensation when 
urinating. 
Possible signs of cancer including but not limited to swelling of lymph nodes, weight loss, 
fever, unusual skin nodules, changes in moles or skin colouring, or unusual vaginal bleeding. 
Signs of a lung problem such as coughing, breathing difficulties or tightness in the chest. 
Signs of a nervous system problem (including eye problems) such as signs of a stroke 
(sudden numbness or weakness of your face, arm or leg, especially on one side of your body; 
sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; trouble seeing in one or both eyes, trouble 
walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination or a severe headache), fits, 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
tingling/numbness in any part of your body, or weakness in arms or legs, changes in eyesight 
such as double vision or other eye problems.  
Signs of a liver problem (including hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the 
past) such as yellowing of the skin or eyes, dark-brown coloured urine, pain or swelling in the 
upper right side of the stomach area, joint pain, skin rashes, or fever. 
Signs of an immune system disorder called lupus such as joint pain or a rash on cheeks or 
arms that is sensitive to the sun (lupus) or cough, shortness of breath, fever or skin rash 
(sarcoidosis). 
Signs of low blood counts such as persistent fever, bleeding or bruising more easily, small red 
or purple spots caused by bleeding under the skin, or looking pale. 
Signs of serious skin problems such as reddish-target-like spots or circular patches often with 
central blisters on the trunk, large areas of peeling and shedding (exfoliating) skin, ulcers of 
mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes or small pus-filled bumps that can spread over the body. 
These skin reactions can be accompanied by fever. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the above. 
The following side effects have been observed with Remsima: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Stomach pain, feeling sick 
Viral infections such as herpes or flu 
Upper respiratory infections such as sinusitis 
Headache 
Side effect due to an infusion 
Pain. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Changes in how your liver works, increase in liver enzymes (shown in blood tests) 
Lung or chest infections such as bronchitis or pneumonia 
Difficult or painful breathing, chest pain 
Bleeding in the stomach or intestines, diarrhoea, indigestion, heartburn, constipation 
Nettle-type rash (hives), itchy rash or dry skin 
Balance problems or feeling dizzy 
Fever, increased sweating 
Circulation problems such as low or high blood pressure 
Bruising, hot flush or nosebleed, warm, red skin (flushing) 
Feeling tired or weak 
Bacterial infections such as blood poisoning, abscess or infection of the skin (cellulitis) 
Infection of the skin due to a fungus 
Blood problems such as anaemia or low white blood cell count 
Swollen lymph nodes 
Depression, problems sleeping 
Eye problems, including red eyes and infections 
Fast heart beat (tachycardia) or palpitations 
Pain in the joints, muscles or back 
Urinary tract infection 
Psoriasis, skin problems such as eczema and hair loss 
Reactions at the injection site such as pain, swelling, redness or itching 
Chills, a build-up of fluid under the skin causing swelling 
Feeling numb or having a tingling feeling. 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
Shortage of blood supply, swelling of a vein 
Collection of blood outside the blood vessels (haematoma) or bruising 
Skin problems such as blistering, warts, abnormal skin colouration or pigmentation, or swollen 
lips, or thickening of the skin, or red, scaly, and flaky skin 
Severe allergic reactions (e.g. anaphylaxis), an immune system disorder called lupus, allergic 
reactions to foreign proteins 
• 
•  Wounds taking longer to heal 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Swelling of the liver (hepatitis) or gall bladder, liver damage 
Feeling forgetful, irritable, confused, nervous 
Eye problems including blurred or reduced vision, puffy eyes or sties 
New or worsening heart failure, slow heart rate 
Fainting 
Convulsions, nerve problems 
A hole in the bowel or blockage of the intestine, stomach pain or cramps 
Swelling of your pancreas (pancreatitis) 
Fungal infections such as yeast infection, or fungal infection of the nails 
Lung problems (such as oedema) 
Fluid around the lungs (pleural effusion) 
Narrowed airway in the lungs, causing difficulty breathing 
Inflamed lining of the lung, causing sharp chest pains that feel worse with breathing (pleurisy) 
Tuberculosis 
Kidney infections 
Low platelet count, too many white blood cells 
Infections of the vagina 
Blood test result showing ‘antibodies’ against your own body. 
Changes in cholesterol and fat levels in the blood. 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
• 
• 
A type of blood cancer (lymphoma) 
Your blood not supplying enough oxygen to your body, circulation problems such as narrowing 
of a blood vessel 
Inflammation of the lining of the brain (meningitis) 
Infections due to a weakened immune system 
Hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past 
Inflamed liver caused by a problem with the immune system (autoimmune hepatitis)  
Liver problem that causes yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice) 
Abnormal tissue swelling or growth 
Severe allergic reaction that may cause loss of consciousness and could be life-threatening 
(anaphylactic shock) 
Swelling of small blood vessels (vasculitis) 
Immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (such as sarcoidosis) 
Collections of immune cells resulting from an inflammatory response (granulomatous lesions) 
Lack of interest or emotion 
Serious skin problems such as toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and acute 
generalised exanthematous pustulosis 
Other skin problems such as erythema multiforme, blisters and peeling skin, or boils 
(furunculosis) 
Serious nervous system disorders such as transverse myelitis, multiple sclerosis-like disease, 
optic neuritis and Guillain-Barré syndrome 
Inflammation in the eye that may cause changes in the vision, including blindness 
Fluid in the lining of the heart (pericardial effusion) 
Serious lung problems (such as interstitial lung disease) 
Melanoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Cervical cancer 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
102 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Low blood counts, including a severely decreased number of white blood cells 
Small red or purple spots caused by bleeding under the skin 
Abnormal values of a blood protein called ‘complement factor’ which is part of the immune 
system 
Lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on 
mucous membranes).  
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
• 
• 
Cancer in children and adults 
A rare blood cancer affecting mostly teenage boys or young men (hepatosplenic T-cell 
lymphoma) 
Liver failure 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
• 
• 
• 
•  Worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness) 
Heart attack 
Stroke 
Temporary loss of sight during or within 2 hours of infusion 
Infection due to a live vaccine because of a weakened immune system.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents 
Children who took infliximab for Crohn’s disease showed some differences in side effects compared 
with adults who took infliximab for Crohn's disease. The side effects that happened more in children 
were: low red blood cells (anaemia), blood in stool, low overall levels of white blood cells 
(leukopenia), redness or blushing (flushing), viral infections, low levels of white blood cells that fight 
infection (neutropenia), bone fracture, bacterial infection and allergic reactions of the breathing tract. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Remsima 
Remsima will generally be stored by the health professionals. The storage details should you need 
them are as follows: 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and the carton after 
“EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
This medicine can also be stored in the original carton outside of refrigerated storage up to a 
maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to six months, but not beyond the original expiry 
date. In this situation, do not return to refrigerated storage again. Write the new expiry date on 
the carton including day/month/year. Discard this medicine if not used by the new expiry date 
or the expiry date printed on the carton, whichever is earlier. 
It is recommended that when Remsima is prepared for infusion, it is used as soon as possible 
(within 3 hours). However, if the solution is prepared in germ-free conditions, it can be stored in 
a refrigerator at 2°C – 8°C up to 60 days and for an additional 24 hours at 25 °C after removal 
from the refrigerator. 
Do not use this medicine if it is discoloured or if there are particles present. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Remsima contains 
• 
The active substance is infliximab. Each vial contains 100 mg of infliximab. After preparation 
each mL contains 10 mg of infliximab. 
The other ingredients are sucrose, polysorbate 80, sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate 
and disodium phosphate dihydrate. 
• 
What Remsima looks like and contents of the pack 
Remsima is supplied as a glass vial containing a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
powder is white. 
Remsima is produced in packs of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 vials. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstraße 13,  
89231 Neu Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Kymos, SL 
Ronda De Can Fatjó 7B, Parc Tecnològic del Vallès, 
Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona, 08290, 
Spain 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstraße 49 
55218 Ingelheim am Rhein 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 231 0493 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Teл.: + 36 1 231 0493 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 231 0493 
Danmark 
Orion Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 86 14 00 00 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: + 356 2093 9800 
info@mint.com.mt 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 888 7300 
Eesti 
Orion Pharma Eesti OÜ 
Tel: + 372 6 644 550  
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε.  
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 – 120 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: + 34 93 700 25 25 
France 
Celltrion Healthcare France SAS 
Tel: +33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Hrvatska 
OKTAL PHARMA d.o.o.  
Tel: + 385 1 6595 777 
oktal-pharma@oktal-pharma.hr 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Norge 
Orion Pharma AS 
Tlf: + 47 40 00 42 10 
Österreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel.: +43 1 97 99 860 
office@astropharma.at 
Polska 
CELLTRION Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 231 0493 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal – Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda.  
Tel: + 351 214 200 290  
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 231 0493 
Slovenija 
OPH Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: + 386 1 519 29 22 
info@oktal-pharma.si 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 231 0493 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Via Luigi Galvani, 24 - 20124 Milano (MI) 
Tel: +39 0247 927040 
Suomi/Finland 
Orion Pharma 
Puh/Tel: + 358 10 4261  
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22741741 
Sverige 
Orion Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46 8 623 64 40 
Latvija 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 231 0493 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Patients treated with Remsima should be given the patient reminder card. 
Instructions for use and handling – storage conditions 
Store at 2°C – 8°C. 
Remsima may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to 6 
months, but not exceeding the original expiry date. The new expiry date must be written on the carton. 
Upon removal from refrigerated storage, Remsima must not be returned to refrigerated storage. 
Instructions for use and handling – reconstitution, dilution and administration 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and batch number 
of the administered medicinal product should be clearly recorded. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
The dose and the number of Remsima vials have to be calculated. Each Remsima vial contains 
100 mg infliximab. The required total volume of reconstituted Remsima solution has to be 
calculated. 
Under aseptic conditions, each Remsima vial should be reconstituted with 10 mL of water for 
injections, using a syringe equipped with a 21-gauge (0.8 mm) or smaller needle. The flip-top 
from the vial has to be removed and the top has to be wiped with a 70% alcohol swab. The 
syringe needle should be inserted into the vial through the centre of the rubber stopper and the 
stream of water for injections directed to the glass wall of the vial. The solution has to be gently 
swirled by rotating the vial to dissolve the powder. Prolonged or vigorous agitation must be 
avoided. THE VIAL MUST NOT BE SHAKEN. Foaming of the solution on reconstitution may 
occur. The reconstituted solution should stand for 5 minutes. The solution should be colourless 
to light yellow and opalescent. The solution may develop a few fine translucent particles, as 
infliximab is a protein. The solution must not be used if opaque particles, discolouration, or 
other foreign particles are present. 
The required volume of the reconstituted Remsima solution should be diluted to 250 mL with 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for infusion. Do not dilute the reconstituted Remsima 
solution with any other diluent. The dilution can be accomplished by withdrawing a volume of 
the sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for infusion from the 250-mL glass bottle or 
infusion bag equal to the volume of reconstituted Remsima. The required volume of 
reconstituted Remsima solution should slowly be added to the 250-mL infusion bottle or bag 
and gently be mixed. For volumes greater than 250 ml, either use a larger infusion bag (e.g. 
500 ml, 1000 ml) or use multiple 250 ml infusion bags to ensure that the concentration of the 
infusion solution does not exceed 4 mg/ml. If stored refrigerated after reconstitution and 
dilution, the infusion solution must be allowed to equilibrate at room temperature to 25 °C for 3 
hours prior to Step 4 (infusion). Storage beyond 24 hours at 2 °C - 8 °C applies to preparation of 
Remsima in the infusion bag only. 
The infusion solution has to be administered over a period of not less than the infusion time 
recommended (see section 3). Only an infusion set with an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low 
protein-binding filter (pore size 1.2 micrometre or less) should be used. Since no preservative is 
present, it is recommended that the administration of the solution for infusion is to be started as 
soon as possible and within 3 hours of reconstitution and dilution. If not used immediately, in 
use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and would 
normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C – 8°C, unless reconstitution/dilution has been taken 
place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. Any unused portion of the infusion solution 
should not be stored for reuse. 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
6. 
Remsima should be visually inspected for particulate matter or discolouration prior to 
administration. If visibly opaque particles, discolouration or foreign particles are observed it 
should not be used. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements. 
108 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
infliximab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a patient reminder card, which contains important safety 
information you need to be aware of before and during your treatment with Remsima. 
•  When starting a new card, keep this card as a reference for 4 months after your last dose of 
• 
• 
• 
Remsima. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Remsima is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Remsima  
3.  How to use Remsima  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Remsima 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
7. 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Remsima is and what it is used for 
Remsima contains the active substance infliximab. Infliximab is a monoclonal antibody - a type of 
protein that attaches to a specific target in the body called TNF (tumour necrosis factor) alpha. 
Remsima belongs to a group of medicines called ‘TNF blockers’. It is used in adults for the following 
inflammatory diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease) 
Psoriasis 
Crohn’s disease 
Ulcerative colitis. 
Remsima works by selectively attaching to TNF alpha and blocking its action. TNF alpha is involved 
in inflammatory processes of the body so blocking it can reduce the inflammation in your body. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. If you have active rheumatoid arthritis 
you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given 
Remsima which you will take with another medicine called methotrexate to: 
• 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
slow down the damage in your joints, 
improve your physical function. 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints, usually accompanied by psoriasis. If you 
have active psoriatic arthritis you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Remsima to: 
• 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
slow down the damage in your joints, 
improve your physical function. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease) 
Ankylosing spondylitis is an inflammatory disease of the spine. If you have ankylosing spondylitis 
you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given 
Remsima to: 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
improve your physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Psoriasis is an inflammatory disease of the skin. If you have moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, you 
will first be given other medicines or treatments, such as phototherapy. If these medicines or 
treatments do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to reduce the signs and symptoms of 
your disease. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the bowel. If you have ulcerative colitis you will first 
be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to 
treat your disease. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the bowel. If you have Crohn’s disease you will first be 
given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to: 
• 
• 
treat active Crohn’s disease, 
reduce the number of abnormal openings (fistulae) between your bowel and your skin that have 
not been controlled by other medicines or surgery. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Remsima  
You must not use Remsima if 
• 
you are allergic to infliximab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6), 
you are allergic to proteins that come from mice, 
you have tuberculosis (TB) or another serious infection such as pneumonia or sepsis (serious 
bacterial infection of the blood), 
you have heart failure that is moderate or severe. 
• 
• 
• 
Do not use Remsima if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor before 
you are given Remsima. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before or during treatment with Remsima if you have: 
Had treatment with any medicine containing infliximab before 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have had treatment with medicines containing infliximab in the past and 
are now starting Remsima treatment again. 
If you have had a break in your treatment with infliximab of more than 16 weeks, there is a 
higher risk for allergic reactions when you start the treatment again. 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local injection site reactions 
• 
• 
Some patients receiving infliximab via injection under the skin have experienced local injection 
site reactions. Signs of a local injection site reaction can include redness, pain, itching, swelling, 
hardness, bruising, bleeding, cold sensation, tingling sensation, irritation, rash, ulcer, hives, 
blisters and scab on the skin of the injection site. 
Most of these reactions are mild to moderate and mostly resolve on their own within a day. 
Infections 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have an infection even if it is a very 
minor one. 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have ever lived in or travelled to an area 
where infections called histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis are common. 
These infections are caused by specific types of fungi that can affect the lungs or other parts of 
your body. 
You may get infections more easily when you are being treated with Remsima. If you are 65 
years of age or older, you have a greater risk. 
These infections may be serious and include tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, 
bacteria or other organisms in the environment and sepsis that may be life-threatening. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get signs of infection during treatment with Remsima. Signs 
include fever, cough, flu-like signs, feeling unwell, red or hot skin, wounds or dental problems. Your 
doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Remsima. 
• 
• 
Tuberculosis (TB) 
• 
• 
• 
It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had TB or if you have been in 
close contact with someone who has had or has TB. 
Your doctor will test you to see if you have TB. Cases of TB have been reported in patients 
treated with infliximab, even in patients who have already been treated with medicines for TB. 
Your doctor will record these tests on your patient reminder card. 
If your doctor feels that you are at risk for TB, you may be treated with medicines for TB before 
you are given Remsima. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get signs of TB during treatment with Remsima. Signs include 
persistent cough, weight loss, feeling tired, fever, night sweats. 
Hepatitis B virus 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are using Remsima if you are a carrier of hepatitis B or have ever 
had it. 
Tell your doctor if you think you might be at risk of contracting hepatitis B. 
Your doctor should test you for hepatitis B virus. 
Treatment with TNF blockers such as Remsima may result in reactivation of hepatitis B virus in 
patients who carry this virus, which can be life-threatening in some cases. 
If you experience reactivation of hepatitis B, your doctor may need to stop your treatment and 
may give you medicines such as effective antiviral therapy with supportive treatment. 
Heart problems 
Tell your doctor if you have any heart problems, such as mild heart failure. 
Your doctor will want to closely monitor your heart. 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get new or worsening signs of heart failure during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include shortness of breath or swelling of your feet. 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cancer and lymphoma 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type 
of blood cancer) or any other cancer. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher risk of developing lymphoma. 
Patients taking Remsima may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or another 
cancer. 
Some patients who have received TNF-blockers, including infliximab have developed a rare 
type of cancer called hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma. Of these patients, most were teenage boys 
or young men and most had either Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis. This type of cancer has 
usually resulted in death. Almost all patients had also received medicines containing 
azathioprine or mercaptopurine in addition to TNF-blockers.  
Some patients treated with infliximab have developed certain kinds of skin cancer. If there are 
any changes in your skin or growths on the skin during or after therapy, tell your doctor. 
Some women being treated for rheumatoid arthritis with infliximab have developed cervical 
cancer. For women taking Remsima including those over 60 years of age, your doctor may 
recommend regular screening for cervical cancer. 
Lung disease or heavy smoking 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have a lung disease called chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or if you are a heavy smoker. 
Patients with COPD and patients who are heavy smokers may have a higher risk of developing 
cancer with Remsima treatment. 
Nervous system disease 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have or have ever had a problem that 
affects your nervous system. This includes multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barré syndrome, if you 
have fits or have been diagnosed with ‘optic neuritis’. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of a nerve disease during treatment with Remsima. 
Signs include changes in your vision, weakness in your arms or legs, numbness or tingling in any part 
of your body. 
Abnormal skin openings 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have any abnormal skin openings (fistulae) before you are given 
Remsima. 
Vaccinations 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you recently have had or are due to have a vaccine. 
You should receive recommended vaccinations before starting Remsima treatment. You may 
receive some vaccines during treatment with Remsima but you should not receive live vaccines 
(vaccines that contain a living but weakened infectious agent) while using Remsima because 
they may cause infections. 
If you received Remsima while you were pregnant, your baby may also be at higher risk for 
getting an infection as a result of receiving a live vaccine during the first year of life. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Remsima use so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine, including live 
vaccines such as the BCG vaccine (used to prevent tuberculosis).  
If you are breast-feeding, it is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare 
professionals about your Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. For more 
information see section on Pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therapeutic infectious agents 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you have recently received or are scheduled to receive treatment with a 
therapeutic infectious agent (such as BCG instillation used for the treatment of cancer). 
Operations or dental procedures 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are going to have any operations or dental procedures. 
Tell your surgeon or dentist that you are having treatment with Remsima by showing them your 
patient reminder card. 
Liver problems 
• 
• 
Some patients receiving infliximab have developed serious liver problems. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of liver problems during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include yellowing of the skin and eyes, dark-brown coloured urine, pain or 
swelling in the upper right side of the stomach area, joint pain, skin rashes, or fever. 
Low blood counts 
• 
• 
In some patients receiving infliximab, the body may not make enough of the blood cells that 
help fight infections or help stop bleeding.  
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of low blood counts during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include persistent fever, bleeding or bruising more easily, small red or purple 
spots caused by bleeding under the skin, or looking pale. 
Immune system disorder 
• 
• 
Some patients receiving infliximab have developed symptoms of an immune system disorder 
called lupus.  
Tell your doctor straight away if you develop symptoms of lupus during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include joint pain or a rash on cheeks or arms that is sensitive to the sun. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents under 18 years of age because there are no data 
that show that this medicine is safe and works in this age group.  
Other medicines and Remsima 
Patients who have inflammatory diseases already take medicines to treat their problem. These 
medicines may cause side effects. Your doctor will advise you what other medicines you must keep 
using while you are having Remsima. 
Tell your doctor if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines, including any 
other medicines to treat Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis or medicines obtained without a prescription, such as 
vitamins and herbal medicines.  
In particular, tell your doctor if you are using any of the following medicines: 
• 
Medicines that affect your immune system. 
• 
Kineret (which contains anakinra). Remsima and Kineret should not be used together. 
• 
Orencia (which contains abatacept). Remsima and Orencia should not be used together. 
While using Remsima you should not receive live vaccines. If you were using Remsima during 
pregnancy or if you are receiving Remsima while breast-feeding, tell your baby’s doctor and other 
health care professionals caring for your baby about your Remsima use before the baby receives any 
vaccines. 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
using Remsima. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
• 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. Remsima should only be used during 
pregnancy or while breast-feeding if your doctor feels it is necessary for you. 
You should avoid getting pregnant when you are being treated with Remsima and for 6 months 
after you stop being treated with it. Discuss the use of contraception during this time with your 
doctor. 
If you received Remsima during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting 
an infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about your 
Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. If you received Remsima while pregnant, 
giving BCG vaccine (used to prevent tuberculosis) to your baby within 12 months after birth 
may result in infection with serious complications, including death. Live vaccines such as the 
BCG vaccine should not be given to your baby within 12 months after birth, unless your baby’s 
doctor recommends otherwise. For more information see section on vaccination. 
If you are breast-feeding, it is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare 
professionals about your Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. Live vaccines 
should not be given to your baby while you are breast-feeding unless your baby’s doctor 
recommends otherwise. 
Severely decreased numbers of white blood cells have been reported in infants born to women 
treated with infliximab during pregnancy. If your baby has continual fevers or infections, 
contact your baby’s doctor immediately. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Driving and using machines 
Remsima is not likely to affect your ability to drive or use tools or machines. If you feel tired, dizzy, or 
unwell after having Remsima, do not drive or use any tools or machines. 
Remsima contains sodium and sorbitol 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’ and 
45 mg sorbitol in each 120 mg dose.  
3. 
How to use Remsima 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure.  
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Your doctor will start your treatment with or without two Remsima intravenous infusion doses of 3 mg 
for every kg of body weight (given to you into a vein, usually in your arm, over a period of 2 hours). If 
Remsima intravenous infusion doses are given to start the treatment, they are administered 2 weeks 
apart via intravenous infusion. After 4 weeks from the last intravenous infusion, you will be given 
Remsima via injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection).  
The usual recommended dose of Remsima subcutaneous injection is 120 mg once every 2 weeks 
regardless of weight. 
Psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease) and psoriasis  
Your doctor will start your treatment with two Remsima intravenous infusion doses of 5 mg for every 
kg of body weight (given to you into a vein, usually in your arm, over a period of 2 hours). They are 
administered 2 weeks apart via intravenous infusion. After 4 weeks from the last intravenous infusion, 
you will be given Remsima via injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection).  
The usual recommended dose of Remsima subcutaneous injection is 120 mg once every 2 weeks 
regardless of weight.  
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis 
Your doctor will start your treatment with two Remsima intravenous infusion doses of 5 mg for every 
kg of body weight (given to you into a vein, usually in your arm, over a period of 2 hours). They are 
administered 2 weeks apart via intravenous infusion. After 4 weeks from the last intravenous infusion, 
you will be given Remsima via injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection).  
The usual recommended dose of Remsima subcutaneous injection is 120 mg once every 2 weeks 
regardless of weight. 
How Remsima is given 
• 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection is administered by injection under the skin 
(subcutaneous use) only. It is important to check the product labels to ensure that the correct 
formulation is being given as prescribed. 
For patients with rheumatoid arthritis, your doctor may start your Remsima treatment with or 
without two Remsima intravenous infusion doses. For patients with Crohn’s disease, ulcerative 
colitis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis, two Remsima infusion doses will 
be given to start your Remsima treatment. 
If Remsima treatment is initiated without two Remsima intravenous infusion doses, the table 
below shows how often you will usually have this medicine after your first dose. 
2nd dose 
3rd dose 
4th dose 
5th dose 
Further doses 
1 week after your 1st dose 
2 weeks after your 1st dose 
3 weeks after your 1st dose 
4 weeks after your 1st dose 
6 weeks after your 1st dose and every 2 weeks 
thereafter 
If two Remsima intravenous infusion doses are given by your doctor or nurse to start the 
treatment, they will be given 2 weeks apart and the first Remsima subcutaneous injection will 
be given 4 weeks after the last intravenous infusion followed by Remsima subcutaneous 
injections given every 2 weeks.  
The first subcutaneous injection of Remsima will be administered under the supervision of your 
doctor. 
After proper training, if you feel you are well-trained and confident to inject Remsima yourself, 
your doctor may allow you to inject subsequent doses of Remsima yourself at home. 
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about giving yourself an injection. You will find 
detailed “Instructions for Use” at the end of this leaflet.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you use more Remsima than you should 
If you have used more Remsima than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or 
by using it too frequently), talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. Always have the outer 
carton of the medicine with you, even if it is empty.  
If you forget to use Remsima 
Missed dose for up to 7 days 
If you miss a dose of Remsima for up to 7 days, after the original scheduled dose, you should take the 
missed dose immediately. Take your next dose on the next originally planned date and then follow the 
original dosing schedule. 
Missed dose for 8 days or more  
If you miss a dose of Remsima for 8 days or more, after the original scheduled dose, you should not take 
the missed dose. Take your next dose on the next originally planned date and then follow the original 
dosing schedule.  
If you are not sure when to inject Remsima, call your doctor.  
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However some patients may experience serious side effects and may 
require treatment. Side effects may also occur after your treatment with Remsima has stopped.  
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following: 
• 
Signs of an allergic reaction such as swelling of your face, lips, mouth or throat which may 
cause difficulty in swallowing or breathing, skin rash, hives, swelling of the hands, feet or 
ankles. Some of these reactions may be serious or life-threatening. An allergic reaction could 
happen within 2 hours of your injection or later. More signs of allergic side effects that may 
happen up to 12 days after your injection include pain in the muscles, fever, joint or jaw pain, 
sore throat or headache. 
Signs of a local injection site reaction such as redness, pain, itching, swelling, hardness, 
bruising, bleeding, cold sensation, tingling sensation, irritation, rash, ulcer, hives, blisters and 
scab.  
Signs of a heart problem such as chest discomfort or pain, arm pain, stomach pain, shortness 
of breath, anxiety, lightheadedness, dizziness, fainting, sweating, nausea (feeling sick), 
vomiting, fluttering or pounding in your chest, a fast or a slow heartbeat, and swelling of your 
feet. 
Signs of infection (including TB) such as fever, feeling tired, cough which may be persistent, 
shortness of breath, flu-like symptoms, weight loss, night sweats, diarrhoea, wounds, collection 
of pus in the gut or around the anus (abscess), dental problems or burning sensation when 
urinating. 
Possible signs of cancer including but not limited to swelling of lymph nodes, weight loss, 
fever, unusual skin nodules, changes in moles or skin colouring, or unusual vaginal bleeding. 
Signs of a lung problem such as coughing, breathing difficulties or tightness in the chest. 
Signs of a nervous system problem (including eye problems) such as signs of a stroke 
(sudden numbness or weakness of your face, arm or leg, especially on one side of your body; 
sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; trouble seeing in one or both eyes, trouble 
walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination or a severe headache), fits, 
tingling/numbness in any part of your body, or weakness in arms or legs, changes in eyesight 
such as double vision or other eye problems. 
Signs of a liver problem (including hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the 
past) such as yellowing of the skin or eyes, dark-brown coloured urine, pain or swelling in the 
upper right side of the stomach area, joint pain, skin rashes, or fever. 
Signs of an immune system disorder called lupus such as joint pain or a rash on cheeks or 
arms that is sensitive to the sun (lupus) or cough, shortness of breath, fever or skin rash 
(sarcoidosis). 
Signs of low blood counts such as persistent fever, bleeding or bruising more easily, small red 
or purple spots caused by bleeding under the skin, or looking pale. 
Signs of serious skin problems such as reddish-target-like spots or circular patches often with 
central blisters on the trunk, large areas of peeling and shedding (exfoliating) skin, ulcers of 
mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes or small pus-filled bumps that can spread over the body. 
These skin reactions can be accompanied by fever. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the above. 
The following side effects have been observed with Remsima: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
Stomach pain, feeling sick 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Viral infections such as herpes or flu 
Upper respiratory infections such as sinusitis 
Headache 
Side effect due to an injection 
Pain. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Changes in how your liver works, increase in liver enzymes (shown in blood tests) 
Lung or chest infections such as bronchitis or pneumonia 
Difficult or painful breathing, chest pain 
Bleeding in the stomach or intestines, diarrhoea, indigestion, heartburn, constipation 
Nettle-type rash (hives), itchy rash or dry skin 
Balance problems or feeling dizzy 
Fever, increased sweating 
Circulation problems such as low or high blood pressure 
Bruising, hot flush or nosebleed, warm, red skin (flushing) 
Feeling tired or weak 
Bacterial infections such as blood poisoning, abscess or infection of the skin (cellulitis) 
Infection of the skin due to a fungus 
Blood problems such as anaemia or low white blood cell count 
Swollen lymph nodes 
Depression, problems sleeping 
Eye problems, including red eyes and infections 
Fast heart beat (tachycardia) or palpitations 
Pain in the joints, muscles or back 
Urinary tract infection 
Psoriasis, skin problems such as eczema and hair loss 
Reactions at the injection site such as pain, swelling, redness or itching 
Chills, a build-up of fluid under the skin causing swelling 
Feeling numb or having a tingling feeling. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
Shortage of blood supply, swelling of a vein 
Collection of blood outside the blood vessels (haematoma) or bruising 
Skin problems such as blistering, warts, abnormal skin colouration or pigmentation, or swollen 
lips, or thickening of the skin, or red, scaly, and flaky skin 
Severe allergic reactions (e.g. anaphylaxis), an immune system disorder called lupus, allergic 
reactions to foreign proteins 
• 
•  Wounds taking longer to heal 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Swelling of the liver (hepatitis) or gall bladder, liver damage 
Feeling forgetful, irritable, confused, nervous 
Eye problems including blurred or reduced vision, puffy eyes or sties 
New or worsening heart failure, slow heart rate 
Fainting 
Convulsions, nerve problems 
A hole in the bowel or blockage of the intestine, stomach pain or cramps 
Swelling of your pancreas (pancreatitis) 
Fungal infections such as yeast infection, or fungal infection of the nails 
Lung problems (such as oedema) 
Fluid around the lungs (pleural effusion) 
Narrowed airway in the lungs, causing difficulty breathing 
Inflamed lining of the lung, causing sharp chest pains that feel worse with breathing (pleurisy) 
Tuberculosis 
Kidney infections 
117 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Low platelet count, too many white blood cells 
Infections of the vagina 
Blood test result showing ‘antibodies’ against your own body 
Changes in cholesterol and fat levels in the blood. 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
• 
• 
A type of blood cancer (lymphoma) 
Your blood not supplying enough oxygen to your body, circulation problems such as narrowing 
of a blood vessel 
Inflammation of the lining of the brain (meningitis) 
Infections due to a weakened immune system 
Hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past 
Inflamed liver caused by a problem with the immune system (autoimmune hepatitis)  
Liver problem that causes yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice) 
Abnormal tissue swelling or growth 
Severe allergic reaction that may cause loss of consciousness and could be life-threatening 
(anaphylactic shock) 
Swelling of small blood vessels (vasculitis) 
Immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (such as sarcoidosis) 
Collections of immune cells resulting from an inflammatory response (granulomatous lesions) 
Lack of interest or emotion 
Serious skin problems such as toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and acute 
generalised exanthematous pustulosis 
Other skin problems such as erythema multiforme, blisters and peeling skin, or boils 
(furunculosis) 
Serious nervous system disorders such as transverse myelitis, multiple sclerosis-like disease, 
optic neuritis and Guillain-Barré syndrome 
Inflammation in the eye that may cause changes in the vision, including blindness 
Fluid in the lining of the heart (pericardial effusion) 
Serious lung problems (such as interstitial lung disease) 
Melanoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Cervical cancer 
Low blood counts, including a severely decreased number of white blood cells 
Small red or purple spots caused by bleeding under the skin 
Abnormal values of a blood protein called ‘complement factor’ which is part of the immune 
system 
Lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on 
mucous membranes).  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Cancer 
A rare blood cancer affecting mostly young men (hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma) 
Liver failure 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
•  Worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness) 
Heart attack 
Stroke 
Temporary loss of sight during or within 2 hours of infusion 
Infection due to a live vaccine because of a weakened immune system.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects 
118 
 
 
 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Remsima 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and the carton after 
“EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. Keep the medicinal product in its outer carton 
to protect from light.  
This medicine can also be stored in the original carton outside of refrigerated storage up to a 
maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to 28 days, but not beyond the original expiry date. 
In this situation, do not return to refrigerated storage again. Write the new expiry date on the 
carton including day/month/year. Discard this medicine if not used by the new expiry date or 
the expiry date printed on the carton, whichever is earlier. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Remsima contains  
• 
The active substance is infliximab. Each 1 ml single dose pre-filled syringe contains 120 mg of 
infliximab.  
The other ingredients are acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, sorbitol, polysorbate 80 and 
water for injections.  
• 
What Remsima looks like and contents of the pack 
Remsima is a clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution which is supplied as a single use 
pre-filled syringe.  
Each pack contains 1 pre-filled syringe with 2 alcohol pads, 2 pre-filled syringes with 2 alcohol pads, 
4 pre-filled syringes with 4 alcohol pads or 6 pre-filled syringes with 6 alcohol pads.  
Each pack contains 1 pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard with 2 alcohol pads, 2 pre-filled 
syringes with automatic needle guard with 2 alcohol pads, 4 pre-filled syringes with automatic needle 
guard with 4 alcohol pads or 6 pre-filled syringes with automatic needle guard with 6 alcohol pads.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder   
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus 
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstraße 13,  
89231 Neu Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Kymos, SL 
Ronda De Can Fatjó 7B, Parc Tecnològic del Vallès, 
Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona, 08290, 
Spain 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstraße 49 
55218 Ingelheim am Rhein 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA  
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
BEinfo@celltrionhc.com 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Унгария 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Maďarsko 
Danmark 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungarn 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Vengrija 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
BEinfo@celltrionhc.com 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Magyarország 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: +356 2093 9800 
info@mint.com.mt 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 20 888 7300 
NLinfo@celltrionhc.com 
Eesti 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungari 
Norge 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungarn 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 – 120 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 700 25 25 
France 
Celltrion Healthcare France SAS 
Tél: + 33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Hrvatska 
OKTAL PHARMA d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6595 777 
oktal-pharma@oktal-pharma.hr 
Österreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 97 99 860 
office@astropharma.at 
Polska 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Węgry 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal – Produtos 
Farmacêuticos, 
Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214 200 290 
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungaria 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Slovenija 
OKTAL PHARMA d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 519 29 22 
info@oktal-pharma.si 
Ísland 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungverjaland 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Maďarsko 
Suomi/Finland 
Celltrion Healthcare Finland Oy. 
Puh/Tel: +358 29 170 7755 
Sverige 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungern 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Via Luigi Galvani, 24 - 20124 Milano (MI) 
Tel: +39 0247 927040 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22741741 
Latvija 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungārija 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
122 
 
 
 
7. 
Instructions for use 
Read carefully these instructions before using the Remsima syringe. Consult your healthcare provider 
if you have questions about using the Remsima syringe. 
Important information 
•  Use the syringe ONLY if your healthcare provider has trained you on the right way to prepare for 
and to give an injection. 
•  Ask your healthcare provider how often you will need to give an injection. 
•  Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection. Each new injection site should be at least 
3 cm away from the previous injection site. 
•  Do not use the syringe if it has been dropped or is visibly damaged. A damaged syringe may not 
function properly. 
•  Do not reuse the syringe. 
•  Do not shake the syringe at any time.   
About the Remsima syringe 
Parts of the syringe (see Figure A): 
Figure A 
•  Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject. Once you remove the cap, do not recap the 
syringe. 
Prepare for the injection 
1. Gather the supplies for the injection. 
a.  Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
b.  Remove the syringe from the carton stored in your refrigerator by holding the middle of the 
syringe body. 
c.  Ensure you have the following supplies: 
• 
Syringe 
•  Alcohol swab 
•  Cotton ball or gauze* 
•  Adhesive bandage* 
• 
*Items not included in the carton. 
Sharps disposal container* 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Inspect the syringe. 
Do not use the syringe if: 
• 
It is cracked or damaged. 
•  The expiration date has passed. 
3. Inspect the medicine (see Figure B). 
The liquid should be clear and colourless to pale brown. 
Do not use the syringe if the liquid is cloudy, 
discoloured or contains particles in it.  
Note: You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is 
normal. 
4. Wait 30 minutes. 
a.  Leave the syringe at room temperature for 30 minutes to allow it to naturally warm up.  
Do not warm the syringe using heat sources such as hot water or a microwave. 
                      Figure B 
5. Choose an injection site (see Figure C). 
a.  Select an injection site. You may inject into: 
•  The front of the thighs. 
•  The abdomen except for the 5 cm around the 
belly button (navel). 
•  The outer area of the upper arms (caregiver 
ONLY). 
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm of your belly 
button (navel), or is tender, damaged, bruised, or scarred. 
Note: Rotate the injection site each time you give an 
injection. Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm 
away from the previous injection site. 
Figure C 
6. Wash your hands. 
a.  Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. 
7. Clean the injection site. 
a.  Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab. 
b.  Let the skin dry before injecting. 
Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before giving the injection. 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Give the injection 
8. Remove the cap (see Figure D). 
a.  Pull the cap straight off and set it aside. 
Do not touch the needle. Doing so may result in a needle 
stick injury. 
Note: It is normal to see a drop of liquid at the end of the 
needle. 
9. Insert the syringe into the injection site (see Figure E). 
a.  Hold the syringe by its body in one hand 
between your thumb and index finger. 
b.  Using your other hand, gently pinch a fold of 
skin you cleaned. 
c.  With a quick and “dart-like” motion, insert the 
needle completely into the fold of the skin at a 
45-degree angle. 
10. Give the injection (see Figure F). 
a.  After the needle is inserted, let go of the pinched 
skin. 
b.  Push the plunger down slowly and as far as it 
will go until the syringe is empty. 
Figure D 
Figure E 
125 
                 Figure F 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Remove the needle from the injection site (see Figure G). 
a.  Remove the needle from the skin at the same 
angle it was inserted. 
b.  Gently press a cotton ball or gauze over the 
injection site and hold for 10 seconds. 
c.  Apply an adhesive bandage, if necessary. 
Do not rub the injection site. 
After the injection 
12. Dispose of the syringe (see Figure H). 
a.  Put the used syringe in an approved sharps 
b. 
disposal container immediately after use. 
If you do not have an approved sharps disposal 
container, you may use a household container 
that is: 
•  made of a heavy-duty plastic; 
• 
able to close with a tight-fitting, 
puncture-resistant lid, without sharps being 
able to come out; 
upright and stable during use; 
leak-resistant; and 
properly labelled to warn of hazardous 
waste inside the container. 
• 
• 
• 
c.  When your sharps disposal container is almost 
full, it should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements. 
Do not recap the syringe. 
Note: Keep the syringe and sharps disposal container 
out of the sight and reach of children. 
126 
 Figure G 
Figure H 
 
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Read carefully these instructions before using the Remsima syringe. Consult your healthcare provider 
if you have questions about using the Remsima syringe. 
Important information 
•  Use the syringe ONLY if your healthcare provider has trained you on the right way to prepare for 
and to give an injection. 
•  Ask your healthcare provider how often you will need to give an injection. 
•  Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection. Each new injection site should be at least 
3 cm away from the previous injection site. 
•  Do not use the syringe if it has been dropped or is visibly damaged. A damaged syringe may not 
function properly. 
•  Do not reuse the syringe. 
•  Do not shake the syringe at any time. 
About the Remsima syringe 
Parts of the syringe (see Figure A): 
Figure A 
•  Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject. Once you remove the cap, do not recap the 
syringe. 
Prepare for the injection 
1. Gather the supplies for the injection. 
a.  Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
b.  Remove the syringe from the carton stored in your refrigerator by holding the middle of the 
syringe body.  
c.  Ensure you have the following supplies: 
• 
Syringe 
•  Alcohol swab 
•  Cotton ball or gauze* 
•  Adhesive bandage* 
• 
*Items not included in the carton. 
Sharps disposal container* 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Inspect the syringe. 
Do not use the syringe if: 
• 
It is cracked or damaged. 
•  The expiration date has passed. 
3. Inspect the medicine (see Figure B). 
The liquid should be clear and colourless to pale brown. 
Do not use the syringe if the liquid is cloudy, 
discoloured or contains particles in it. 
Note: You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is 
normal. 
4. Wait 30 minutes. 
a.  Leave the syringe at room temperature for 30 minutes to allow it to naturally warm up. 
Do not warm the syringe using heat sources such as hot water or a microwave. 
Figure B 
5. Choose an injection site (see Figure C). 
a.  Select an injection site. You may inject into: 
•  The front of the thighs. 
•  The abdomen except for the 5 cm around the 
belly button (navel). 
•  The outer area of the upper arms (caregiver 
ONLY). 
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm of your belly 
button (navel), or is tender, damaged, bruised, or scarred. 
Note: Rotate the injection site each time you give an 
injection. Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm 
away from the previous injection site. 
6. Wash your hands. 
a.  Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. 
7. Clean the injection site. 
a.  Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab.  
b.  Let the skin dry before injecting. 
Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before giving the injection. 
Figure C 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Give the injection 
8. Remove the cap (see Figure D). 
a.  Pull the cap straight off and set it aside. 
Do not touch the needle. Doing so may result in a needle 
stick injury. 
Note: It is normal to see a drop of liquid at the end of the 
needle. 
9. Insert the syringe into the injection site (see Figure E). 
a.  Hold the syringe by its body in one hand between 
your thumb and index finger. 
b.  Using your other hand, gently pinch a fold of skin 
you cleaned. 
c.  With a quick and “dart-like” motion, insert the 
needle completely into the fold of the skin at a 
45-degree angle. 
129 
Figure D 
Figure E 
 
 
 
 
10. Give the injection (see Figure F). 
a.  After the needle is inserted, let go of the pinched 
skin. 
b.  Push the plunger down slowly and as far as it will 
go until the syringe is empty. 
11. Remove the syringe from the injection site (see Figure G). 
a.  After the syringe is empty, slowly lift your thumb 
from the plunger until needle is completely 
covered by the automatic needle guard. 
b.  Gently press a cotton ball or gauze over the 
injection site and hold for 10 seconds. 
c.  Apply an adhesive bandage, if necessary. 
Do not rub the injection site. 
Figure F 
Figure G 
130 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
After the injection 
12. Dispose of the syringe (see Figure H). 
a.  Put the used syringe in an approved sharps 
b. 
disposal container immediately after use. 
If you do not have an approved sharps disposal 
container, you may use a household container 
that is: 
•  made of a heavy-duty plastic; 
• 
able to close with a tight-fitting, 
puncture-resistant lid, without sharps being 
able to come out; 
upright and stable during use; 
leak-resistant; and 
properly labelled to warn of hazardous 
waste inside the container. 
• 
• 
• 
c.  When your sharps disposal container is almost 
full, it should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements. 
Do not recap the syringe. 
Note: Keep the syringe and sharps disposal container 
out of the sight and reach of children. 
Figure H 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
infliximab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a patient reminder card, which contains important safety 
information you need to be aware of before and during your treatment with Remsima. 
•  When starting a new card, keep this card as a reference for 4 months after your last dose of 
• 
• 
• 
Remsima. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Remsima is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Remsima  
3.  How to use Remsima  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Remsima 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
7. 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Remsima is and what it is used for 
Remsima contains the active substance infliximab. Infliximab is a monoclonal antibody - a type of 
protein that attaches to a specific target in the body called TNF (tumour necrosis factor) alpha. 
Remsima belongs to a group of medicines called ‘TNF blockers’. It is used in adults for the following 
inflammatory diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease) 
Psoriasis 
Crohn’s disease 
Ulcerative colitis. 
Remsima works by selectively attaching to TNF alpha and blocking its action. TNF alpha is involved 
in inflammatory processes of the body so blocking it can reduce the inflammation in your body. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. If you have active rheumatoid arthritis 
you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given 
Remsima which you will take with another medicine called methotrexate to: 
• 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
slow down the damage in your joints, 
improve your physical function. 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints, usually accompanied by psoriasis. If you 
have active psoriatic arthritis you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Remsima to: 
• 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
slow down the damage in your joints, 
improve your physical function. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease) 
Ankylosing spondylitis is an inflammatory disease of the spine. If you have ankylosing spondylitis 
you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given 
Remsima to: 
• 
• 
reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease, 
improve your physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Psoriasis is an inflammatory disease of the skin. If you have moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, you 
will first be given other medicines or treatments, such as phototherapy. If these medicines or 
treatments do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to reduce the signs and symptoms of 
your disease. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the bowel. If you have ulcerative colitis you will first 
be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to 
treat your disease. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the bowel. If you have Crohn’s disease you will first be 
given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Remsima to: 
• 
• 
treat active Crohn’s disease, 
reduce the number of abnormal openings (fistulae) between your bowel and your skin that have 
not been controlled by other medicines or surgery. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Remsima  
You must not use Remsima if 
• 
you are allergic to infliximab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6), 
you are allergic to proteins that come from mice, 
you have tuberculosis (TB) or another serious infection such as pneumonia or sepsis (serious 
bacterial infection of the blood), 
you have heart failure that is moderate or severe. 
• 
• 
• 
Do not use Remsima if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor before 
you are given Remsima. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before or during treatment with Remsima if you have: 
Had treatment with any medicine containing infliximab before 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have had treatment with medicines containing infliximab in the past and 
are now starting Remsima treatment again. 
If you have had a break in your treatment with infliximab of more than 16 weeks, there is a 
higher risk for allergic reactions when you start the treatment again. 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local injection site reactions 
• 
• 
Some patients receiving infliximab via injection under the skin have experienced local injection 
site reactions. Signs of a local injection site reaction can include redness, pain, itching, swelling, 
hardness, bruising, bleeding, cold sensation, tingling sensation, irritation, rash, ulcer, hives, 
blisters and scab on the skin of the injection site. 
Most of these reactions are mild to moderate and mostly resolve on their own within a day. 
Infections 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have an infection even if it is a very 
minor one. 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have ever lived in or travelled to an area 
where infections called histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis are common. 
These infections are caused by specific types of fungi that can affect the lungs or other parts of 
your body. 
You may get infections more easily when you are being treated with Remsima. If you are 65 
years of age or older, you have a greater risk. 
These infections may be serious and include tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, 
bacteria or other organisms in the environment and sepsis that may be life-threatening. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get signs of infection during treatment with Remsima. Signs 
include fever, cough, flu-like signs, feeling unwell, red or hot skin, wounds or dental problems. Your 
doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Remsima. 
• 
• 
Tuberculosis (TB) 
• 
• 
• 
It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had TB or if you have been in 
close contact with someone who has had or has TB. 
Your doctor will test you to see if you have TB. Cases of TB have been reported in patients 
treated with infliximab, even in patients who have already been treated with medicines for TB. 
Your doctor will record these tests on your patient reminder card. 
If your doctor feels that you are at risk for TB, you may be treated with medicines for TB before 
you are given Remsima. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get signs of TB during treatment with Remsima. Signs include 
persistent cough, weight loss, feeling tired, fever, night sweats. 
Hepatitis B virus 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are using Remsima if you are a carrier of hepatitis B or have ever 
had it. 
Tell your doctor if you think you might be at risk of contracting hepatitis B. 
Your doctor should test you for hepatitis B virus. 
Treatment with TNF blockers such as Remsima may result in reactivation of hepatitis B virus in 
patients who carry this virus, which can be life-threatening in some cases. 
If you experience reactivation of hepatitis B, your doctor may need to stop your treatment and 
may give you medicines such as effective antiviral therapy with supportive treatment. 
Heart problems 
Tell your doctor if you have any heart problems, such as mild heart failure. 
Your doctor will want to closely monitor your heart. 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get new or worsening signs of heart failure during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include shortness of breath or swelling of your feet. 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cancer and lymphoma 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type 
of blood cancer) or any other cancer. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher risk of developing lymphoma. 
Patients taking Remsima may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or another 
cancer. 
Some patients who have received TNF-blockers, including infliximab have developed a rare 
type of cancer called hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma. Of these patients, most were teenage boys 
or young men and most had either Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis. This type of cancer has 
usually resulted in death. Almost all patients had also received medicines containing 
azathioprine or mercaptopurine in addition to TNF-blockers.  
Some patients treated with infliximab have developed certain kinds of skin cancer. If there are 
any changes in your skin or growths on the skin during or after therapy, tell your doctor. 
Some women being treated for rheumatoid arthritis with infliximab have developed cervical 
cancer. For women taking Remsima including those over 60 years of age, your doctor may 
recommend regular screening for cervical cancer. 
Lung disease or heavy smoking 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have a lung disease called chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or if you are a heavy smoker. 
Patients with COPD and patients who are heavy smokers may have a higher risk of developing 
cancer with Remsima treatment. 
Nervous system disease 
• 
Tell your doctor before you are given Remsima if you have or have ever had a problem that 
affects your nervous system. This includes multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barré syndrome, if you 
have fits or have been diagnosed with ‘optic neuritis’. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of a nerve disease during treatment with Remsima. 
Signs include changes in your vision, weakness in your arms or legs, numbness or tingling in any part 
of your body. 
Abnormal skin openings 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have any abnormal skin openings (fistulae) before you are given 
Remsima. 
Vaccinations 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you recently have had or are due to have a vaccine. 
You should receive recommended vaccinations before starting Remsima treatment. You may 
receive some vaccines during treatment with Remsima but you should not receive live vaccines 
(vaccines that contain a living but weakened infectious agent) while using Remsima because 
they may cause infections. 
If you received Remsima while you were pregnant, your baby may also be at higher risk for 
getting an infection as a result of receiving a live vaccine during the first year of life. It is 
important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Remsima use so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine, including live 
vaccines such as the BCG vaccine (used to prevent tuberculosis).  
If you are breast-feeding, it is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare 
professionals about your Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. For more 
information see section on Pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therapeutic infectious agents 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you have recently received or are scheduled to receive treatment with a 
therapeutic infectious agent (such as BCG instillation used for the treatment of cancer). 
Operations or dental procedures 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are going to have any operations or dental procedures. 
Tell your surgeon or dentist that you are having treatment with Remsima by showing them your 
patient reminder card. 
Liver problems 
• 
• 
Some patients receiving infliximab have developed serious liver problems. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of liver problems during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include yellowing of the skin and eyes, dark-brown coloured urine, pain or 
swelling in the upper right side of the stomach area, joint pain, skin rashes, or fever. 
Low blood counts 
• 
• 
In some patients receiving infliximab, the body may not make enough of the blood cells that 
help fight infections or help stop bleeding.  
Tell your doctor straight away if you get symptoms of low blood counts during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include persistent fever, bleeding or bruising more easily, small red or purple 
spots caused by bleeding under the skin, or looking pale. 
Immune system disorder 
• 
• 
Some patients receiving infliximab have developed symptoms of an immune system disorder 
called lupus. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you develop symptoms of lupus during treatment with 
Remsima. Signs include joint pain or a rash on cheeks or arms that is sensitive to the sun. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents under 18 years of age because there are no data 
that show that this medicine is safe and works in this age group. 
Other medicines and Remsima 
Patients who have inflammatory diseases already take medicines to treat their problem. These 
medicines may cause side effects. Your doctor will advise you what other medicines you must keep 
using while you are having Remsima. 
Tell your doctor if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines, including any 
other medicines to treat Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis or medicines obtained without a prescription, such as 
vitamins and herbal medicines.  
In particular, tell your doctor if you are using any of the following medicines: 
• 
Medicines that affect your immune system. 
• 
Kineret (which contains anakinra). Remsima and Kineret should not be used together. 
• 
Orencia (which contains abatacept). Remsima and Orencia should not be used together. 
While using Remsima you should not receive live vaccines. If you were using Remsima during 
pregnancy or if you are receiving Remsima while breast-feeding, tell your baby’s doctor and other 
health care professionals caring for your baby about your Remsima use before the baby receives any 
vaccines. 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
using Remsima. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
• 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. Remsima should only be used during 
pregnancy or while breast-feeding if your doctor feels it is necessary for you. 
You should avoid getting pregnant when you are being treated with Remsima and for 6 months 
after you stop being treated with it. Discuss the use of contraception during this time with your 
doctor. 
If you received Remsima during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting 
an infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about your 
Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. If you received Remsima while pregnant, 
giving BCG vaccine (used to prevent tuberculosis) to your baby within 12 months after birth 
may result in infection with serious complications, including death. Live vaccines such as the 
BCG vaccine should not be given to your baby within 12 months after birth, unless your baby’s 
doctor recommends otherwise. For more information LOsee section on vaccination. 
If you are breast-feeding, it is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other healthcare 
professionals about your Remsima use before your baby is given any vaccine. Live vaccines 
should not be given to your baby while you are breast-feeding unless your baby’s doctor 
recommends otherwise. 
Severely decreased numbers of white blood cells have been reported in infants born to women 
treated with infliximab during pregnancy. If your baby has continual fevers or infections, 
contact your baby’s doctor immediately. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Driving and using machines 
Remsima is not likely to affect your ability to drive or use tools or machines. If you feel tired, dizzy, or 
unwell after having Remsima, do not drive or use any tools or machines. 
Remsima contains sodium and sorbitol 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’ and 
45 mg sorbitol in each 120 mg dose.  
3. 
How to use Remsima 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure.  
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Your doctor will start your treatment with or without two Remsima intravenous infusion doses of 3 mg 
for every kg of body weight (given to you into a vein, usually in your arm, over a period of 2 hours). If 
Remsima intravenous infusion doses are given to start the treatment, they are administered 2 weeks 
apart via intravenous infusion. After 4 weeks from the last intravenous infusion, you will be given 
Remsima via injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection).  
The usual recommended dose of Remsima subcutaneous injection is 120 mg once every 2 weeks 
regardless of weight. 
Psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis (Bechterew’s disease) and psoriasis  
Your doctor will start your treatment with two Remsima intravenous infusion doses of 5 mg for every 
kg of body weight (given to you into a vein, usually in your arm, over a period of 2 hours). They are 
administered 2 weeks apart via intravenous infusion. After 4 weeks from the last intravenous infusion, 
you will be given Remsima via injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection).  
The usual recommended dose of Remsima subcutaneous injection is 120 mg once every 2 weeks 
regardless of weight.  
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis 
Your doctor will start your treatment with two Remsima intravenous infusion doses of 5 mg for every 
kg of body weight (given to you into a vein, usually in your arm, over a period of 2 hours). They are 
administered 2 weeks apart via intravenous infusion. After 4 weeks from the last intravenous infusion, 
you will be given Remsima via injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection).  
The usual recommended dose of Remsima subcutaneous injection is 120 mg once every 2 weeks 
regardless of weight. 
How Remsima is given 
• 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection is administered by injection under the skin 
(subcutaneous use) only. It is important to check the product labels to ensure that the correct 
formulation is being given as prescribed. 
For patients with rheumatoid arthritis, your doctor may start your Remsima treatment with or 
without two Remsima intravenous infusion doses. For patients with Crohn’s disease, ulcerative 
colitis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis, two Remsima infusion doses will 
be given to start your Remsima treatment.   
If Remsima treatment is initiated without two Remsima intravenous infusion doses, the table 
below shows how often you will usually have this medicine after your first dose. 
2nd dose 
3rd dose 
4th dose 
5th dose 
Further doses 
1 week after your 1st dose 
2 weeks after your 1st dose 
3 weeks after your 1st dose 
4 weeks after your 1st dose 
6 weeks after your 1st dose and every 2 weeks 
thereafter 
If two Remsima intravenous infusion doses are given by your doctor or nurse to start the 
treatment, they will be given 2 weeks apart and the first Remsima subcutaneous injection will 
be given 4 weeks after the last intravenous infusion followed by Remsima subcutaneous 
injections given every 2 weeks.  
The first subcutaneous injection of Remsima will be administered under the supervision of your 
doctor. 
After proper training, if you feel you are well-trained and confident to inject Remsima yourself, 
your doctor may allow you to inject subsequent doses of Remsima yourself at home. 
Talk to your doctor if you have any questions about giving yourself an injection. You will find 
detailed “Instructions for Use” at the end of this leaflet.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you use more Remsima than you should 
If you have used more Remsima than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or 
by using it too frequently), talk to a doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. Always have the outer 
carton of the medicine with you, even if it is empty.  
If you forget to use Remsima 
Missed dose for up to 7 days 
If you miss a dose of Remsima for up to 7 days, after the original scheduled dose, you should take the 
missed dose immediately. Take your next dose on the next originally planned date and then follow the 
original dosing schedule. 
Missed dose for 8 days or more  
If you miss a dose of Remsima for 8 days or more, after the original scheduled dose, you should not take 
the missed dose. Take your next dose on the next originally planned date and then follow the original 
dosing schedule.  
If you are not sure when to inject Remsima, call your doctor.  
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However some patients may experience serious side effects and may 
require treatment. Side effects may also occur after your treatment with Remsima has stopped.  
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following: 
• 
Signs of an allergic reaction such as swelling of your face, lips, mouth or throat which may 
cause difficulty in swallowing or breathing, skin rash, hives, swelling of the hands, feet or 
ankles. Some of these reactions may be serious or life-threatening. An allergic reaction could 
happen within 2 hours of your injection or later. More signs of allergic side effects that may 
happen up to 12 days after your injection include pain in the muscles, fever, joint or jaw pain, 
sore throat or headache. 
Signs of a local injection site reaction such as redness, pain, itching, swelling, hardness, 
bruising, bleeding, cold sensation, tingling sensation, irritation, rash, ulcer, hives, blisters and 
scab.  
Signs of a heart problem such as chest discomfort or pain, arm pain, stomach pain, shortness 
of breath, anxiety, lightheadedness, dizziness, fainting, sweating, nausea (feeling sick), 
vomiting, fluttering or pounding in your chest, a fast or a slow heartbeat, and swelling of your 
feet. 
Signs of infection (including TB) such as fever, feeling tired, cough which may be persistent, 
shortness of breath, flu-like symptoms, weight loss, night sweats, diarrhoea, wounds, collection 
of pus in the gut or around the anus (abscess), dental problems or burning sensation when 
urinating. 
Possible signs of cancer including but not limited to swelling of lymph nodes, weight loss, 
fever, unusual skin nodules, changes in moles or skin colouring, or unusual vaginal bleeding. 
Signs of a lung problem such as coughing, breathing difficulties or tightness in the chest. 
Signs of a nervous system problem (including eye problems) such as signs of a stroke 
(sudden numbness or weakness of your face, arm or leg, especially on one side of your body; 
sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; trouble seeing in one or both eyes, trouble 
walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination or a severe headache), fits, 
tingling/numbness in any part of your body, or weakness in arms or legs, changes in eyesight 
such as double vision or other eye problems. 
Signs of a liver problem (including hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the 
past) such as yellowing of the skin or eyes, dark-brown coloured urine, pain or swelling in the 
upper right side of the stomach area, joint pain, skin rashes, or fever. 
Signs of an immune system disorder called lupus such as joint pain or a rash on cheeks or 
arms that is sensitive to the sun (lupus) or cough, shortness of breath, fever or skin rash 
(sarcoidosis). 
Signs of low blood counts such as persistent fever, bleeding or bruising more easily, small red 
or purple spots caused by bleeding under the skin, or looking pale. 
Signs of serious skin problems such as reddish-target-like spots or circular patches often with 
central blisters on the trunk, large areas of peeling and shedding (exfoliating) skin, ulcers of 
mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes or small pus-filled bumps that can spread over the body. 
These skin reactions can be accompanied by fever. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the above. 
The following side effects have been observed with Remsima: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
Stomach pain, feeling sick 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Viral infections such as herpes or flu 
Upper respiratory infections such as sinusitis 
Headache 
Side effect due to an injection 
Pain. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Changes in how your liver works, increase in liver enzymes (shown in blood tests) 
Lung or chest infections such as bronchitis or pneumonia 
Difficult or painful breathing, chest pain 
Bleeding in the stomach or intestines, diarrhoea, indigestion, heartburn, constipation 
Nettle-type rash (hives), itchy rash or dry skin 
Balance problems or feeling dizzy 
Fever, increased sweating 
Circulation problems such as low or high blood pressure 
Bruising, hot flush or nosebleed, warm, red skin (flushing) 
Feeling tired or weak 
Bacterial infections such as blood poisoning, abscess or infection of the skin (cellulitis) 
Infection of the skin due to a fungus 
Blood problems such as anaemia or low white blood cell count 
Swollen lymph nodes 
Depression, problems sleeping 
Eye problems, including red eyes and infections 
Fast heart beat (tachycardia) or palpitations 
Pain in the joints, muscles or back 
Urinary tract infection 
Psoriasis, skin problems such as eczema and hair loss 
Reactions at the injection site such as pain, swelling, redness or itching 
Chills, a build-up of fluid under the skin causing swelling 
Feeling numb or having a tingling feeling. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
Shortage of blood supply, swelling of a vein 
Collection of blood outside the blood vessels (haematoma) or bruising 
Skin problems such as blistering, warts, abnormal skin colouration or pigmentation, or swollen 
lips, or thickening of the skin, or red, scaly, and flaky skin 
Severe allergic reactions (e.g. anaphylaxis), an immune system disorder called lupus, allergic 
reactions to foreign proteins 
• 
•  Wounds taking longer to heal 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Swelling of the liver (hepatitis) or gall bladder, liver damage 
Feeling forgetful, irritable, confused, nervous 
Eye problems including blurred or reduced vision, puffy eyes or sties 
New or worsening heart failure, slow heart rate 
Fainting 
Convulsions, nerve problems 
A hole in the bowel or blockage of the intestine, stomach pain or cramps 
Swelling of your pancreas (pancreatitis) 
Fungal infections such as yeast infection, or fungal infection of the nails 
Lung problems (such as oedema) 
Fluid around the lungs (pleural effusion) 
Narrowed airway in the lungs, causing difficulty breathing 
Inflamed lining of the lung, causing sharp chest pains that feel worse with breathing (pleurisy) 
Tuberculosis 
Kidney infections 
140 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Low platelet count, too many white blood cells 
Infections of the vagina 
Blood test result showing ‘antibodies’ against your own body 
Changes in cholesterol and fat levels in the blood. 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
• 
• 
A type of blood cancer (lymphoma) 
Your blood not supplying enough oxygen to your body, circulation problems such as narrowing 
of a blood vessel 
Inflammation of the lining of the brain (meningitis) 
Infections due to a weakened immune system 
Hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past 
Inflamed liver caused by a problem with the immune system (autoimmune hepatitis)  
Liver problem that causes yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice) 
Abnormal tissue swelling or growth 
Severe allergic reaction that may cause loss of consciousness and could be life-threatening 
(anaphylactic shock) 
Swelling of small blood vessels (vasculitis) 
Immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (such as sarcoidosis) 
Collections of immune cells resulting from an inflammatory response (granulomatous lesions) 
Lack of interest or emotion 
Serious skin problems such as toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and acute 
generalised exanthematous pustulosis 
Other skin problems such as erythema multiforme, blisters and peeling skin, or boils 
(furunculosis) 
Serious nervous system disorders such as transverse myelitis, multiple sclerosis-like disease, 
optic neuritis and Guillain-Barré syndrome 
Inflammation in the eye that may cause changes in the vision, including blindness 
Fluid in the lining of the heart (pericardial effusion) 
Serious lung problems (such as interstitial lung disease) 
Melanoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Cervical cancer 
Low blood counts, including a severely decreased number of white blood cells 
Small red or purple spots caused by bleeding under the skin 
Abnormal values of a blood protein called ‘complement factor’ which is part of the immune 
system 
Lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on 
mucous membranes).  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Cancer 
A rare blood cancer affecting mostly young men (hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma) 
Liver failure 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
•  Worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness) 
Heart attack 
Stroke 
Temporary loss of sight during or within 2 hours of infusion 
Infection due to a live vaccine because of a weakened immune system.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects 
141 
 
 
 
 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Remsima 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and the carton after 
“EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. Keep the medicinal product in its outer carton 
to protect from light.  
This medicine can also be stored in the original carton outside of refrigerated storage up to a 
maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to 28 days, but not beyond the original expiry date. 
In this situation, do not return to refrigerated storage again. Write the new expiry date on the 
carton including day/month/year. Discard this medicine if not used by the new expiry date or 
the expiry date printed on the carton, whichever is earlier. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Remsima contains  
• 
The active substance is infliximab. Each 1 ml single dose pre-filled pen contains 120 mg of 
infliximab.  
The other ingredients are acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, sorbitol, polysorbate 80 and 
water for injections.  
• 
What Remsima looks like and contents of the pack 
Remsima is a clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution which is supplied as a single use 
pre-filled pen.  
Each pack contains 1 pre-filled pen with 2 alcohol pads, 2 pre-filled pens with 2 alcohol pads, 4 
pre-filled pens with 4 alcohol pads or 6 pre-filled pens with 6 alcohol pads. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder   
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus 
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstraße 13,  
89231 Neu Ulm,  
Germany 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Kymos, SL 
Ronda De Can Fatjó 7B, Parc Tecnològic del Vallès, 
Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona, 08290, 
Spain 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstraße 49 
55218 Ingelheim am Rhein 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA  
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
BEinfo@celltrionhc.com 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Унгария 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Maďarsko 
Danmark 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungarn 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Vengrija 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
BEinfo@celltrionhc.com 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Magyarország 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: +356 2093 9800 
info@mint.com.mt 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 20 888 7300 
NLinfo@celltrionhc.com 
Eesti 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungari 
Norge 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungarn 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 – 120 
Österreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 97 99 860 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 700 25 25 
France 
Celltrion Healthcare France SAS 
Tél: + 33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Hrvatska 
OKTAL PHARMA d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6595 777 
oktal-pharma@oktal-pharma.hr 
office@astropharma.at 
Polska 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Węgry 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal – Produtos 
Farmacêuticos, 
Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214 200 290 
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungaria 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Slovenija 
OKTAL PHARMA d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 519 29 22 
info@oktal-pharma.si 
Ísland 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungverjaland 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Maďarsko 
Suomi/Finland 
Celltrion Healthcare Finland Oy. 
Puh/Tel: +358 29 170 7755 
Sverige 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungern 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Via Luigi Galvani, 24 - 20124 Milano (MI) 
Tel: +39 0247 927040 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22741741 
Latvija 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Ungārija 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Instructions for use 
Read carefully these instructions before using the Remsima pen. Consult your healthcare provider if 
you have questions about using the Remsima pen. 
Important information 
•  Use the pen ONLY if your healthcare provider has trained you on the right way to prepare for and 
to give an injection. 
•  Ask your healthcare provider how often you will need to give an injection. 
•  Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection. Each new injection site should be at least 
3 cm away from the previous injection site. 
•  Do not use the pen if it has been dropped or is visibly damaged. A damaged pen may not function 
properly. 
•  Do not reuse the pen. 
•  Do not shake the pen at any time.  
About the Remsima pen 
Parts of the pen (see Figure A): 
Figure A 
•  Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject. Once you remove the cap, do not recap the 
pen. 
Prepare for the injection 
1. Gather the supplies for the injection. 
a.  Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
b.  Remove the pen from the carton stored in your refrigerator. 
c.  Ensure you have the following supplies: 
Pen 
• 
•  Alcohol swab 
•  Cotton ball or gauze* 
•  Adhesive bandage* 
• 
Sharps disposal container*  
*Items not included in the carton. 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Inspect the pen. 
Do not use the pen if: 
• 
It is cracked or damaged. 
•  The expiration date has passed. 
3. Inspect the medicine (see Figure B). 
The liquid should be clear and colourless to pale brown. 
Do not use the pen if the liquid is cloudy, discoloured or 
contains particles in it. 
Note: You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is 
normal. 
Figure B 
Figure C 
4. Wait 30 minutes. 
a.  Leave the pen at room temperature for 30 minutes to allow it to naturally warm up. 
Do not warm the pen using heat sources such as hot water or a microwave. 
5. Choose an injection site (see Figure C). 
a.  Select an injection site. You may inject into: 
•  The front of the thighs. 
•  The abdomen except for the 5 cm around 
the belly button (navel). 
•  The outer area of the upper arms (caregiver 
ONLY). 
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm of your belly 
button (navel), or is tender, damaged, bruised, or 
scarred. 
Note: Rotate the injection site each time you give an 
injection. Each new injection site should be at least 3 
cm away from the previous injection site. 
6. Wash your hands. 
a.  Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. 
7. Clean the injection site. 
a.  Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab. 
b.  Let the skin dry before injecting. 
Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before giving the injection. 
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Give the injection 
8. Remove the cap (see Figure D). 
a.  Pull the olive green cap straight off and set it 
aside. 
Do not touch the needle cover. Doing so may result in a 
needle stick injury.  
Note: It is normal to see a drop of liquid at the end of 
the needle. 
9. Place the pen on the injection site (see Figure E). 
a.  Hold the pen so that you can see the window. 
b.  Without pinching or stretching the skin, place the 
pen over the injection site at a 90-degree angle. 
147 
Figure D 
Figure E 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Start the injection (see Figure F). 
a.  Press the pen firmly against the skin. 
Note: When the injection starts you will hear the 1st loud 
“click” and the olive green plunger rod will begin to fill 
the window. 
b.  Keep holding the pen firmly against the skin and 
listen for the 2nd loud “click.” 
11. Finish the injection (see Figure G). 
a.  After you hear the 2nd loud “click,” continue to 
hold the pen firmly against the skin and count 
slowly to at least five to ensure you inject the full 
dose. 
148 
Figure F 
Figure G 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Remove the pen from the injection site. 
a.  Look at the pen and confirm that the olive green 
plunger rod is filling the window completely. 
b.  Lift the pen from the injection site (see Figure H). 
c.  Gently press a cotton ball or gauze over the 
injection site and apply an adhesive bandage, if 
necessary. 
Do not rub the injection site. 
Note: After you remove the pen from the injection site, the 
needle will be automatically covered (see Figure I). 
Note: If the olive green plunger rod does not fill the 
window completely, you did not receive your full dose. 
Do not reuse the pen in this case. Call your healthcare 
provider immediately. 
Figure H 
Figure I 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the injection 
13. Dispose of the pen (see Figure J). 
a.  Put the used pen in an approved sharps disposal 
container immediately after use. 
b.  If you do not have an approved sharps disposal 
container, you may use a household container that 
is: 
•  made of a heavy-duty plastic; 
• 
able to close with a tight-fitting, 
puncture-resistant lid, without sharps being 
able to come out; 
upright and stable during use; 
leak-resistant; and 
properly labelled to warn of hazardous waste 
inside the container. 
• 
• 
• 
c.  When your sharps disposal container is almost 
full, it should be disposed of in accordance with 
local requirements. 
Do not recap the pen. 
Note: Keep the pen and sharps disposal container out of 
the sight and reach of children. 
Figure J 
150 
 
 
 
 
