SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects the initial scientific  discussion for the approval of Renagel. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  March  2003.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date, 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Hyperphosphataemia is common in patients with end-stage renal failure (ESRF) and may be associated 
with debilitating sequelae. 
Treatment  of  hyperphosphataemia  consists  of  dietary  phosphorus  restriction  and/or  dialysis  and 
phosphate  binders.  Almost  all  dialysis  patients  require  phosphate  binders  (calcium  acetate,  calcium 
carbonate,  aluminium  hydroxide).  The  use  of  calcium-based  phosphate  binders  can  result  in  chronic 
calcium overload, hypercalcemia and soft tissue calcification. Hypercalcemia is particularly common 
in patients treated with calcitriol and other vitamin D analogues. Aluminium-based phosphate binders 
are associated with significant toxicity due to small amounts of absorbed aluminium (encephalopathy, 
osteomalacia, myopathy). 
Sevelamer  is  a  non-absorbed  phosphate  binding  poly  (allylamine  hydrochloride)  polymer,  free  of 
aluminium  and  calcium.  It  contains  multiple  amines  separated  by  one  carbon  from  the  polymer 
backbone. These amines become partially protonated in the intestine and interact with phosphate ions 
through  ionic  and  hydrogen  bonding.  By  binding  phosphate  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract,  sevelamer 
lowers the phosphate concentration in the serum. Sevelamer decreases the incidence of hypercalcaemic 
episodes as compared to patients using calcium based phosphate binders alone, probably because the 
product itself does not contain calcium. 
Renagel capsules are indicated for the control of hyperphosphatemia in adult haemodialysis patients. 
Renagel  should  be  used  within  the  context  of  a  multiple  therapeutic  approach,  which  could  include 
calcium supplements, 1,25 – dihydroxy Vitamin D3 or one of its analogues to control the development 
of renal bone disease. 
The  dosage  of  sevelamer  is  determined  individually  based  on  serum  phosphate  concentration.  If 
Renagel is prescribed as an alternative phosphate binder, Renagel should be given in equivalent doses 
on  a  mg  weight  basis  compared  to  the  patient’s  previous  calcium  based  phosphate  binder.  Serum 
phosphate levels should be closely monitored and the dose of Renagel adjusted accordingly with the 
goal of lowering serum phosphate to 1.94 mmol/l or less. Serum phosphate should be tested every one 
to three  weeks until a  stable  serum  phosphate level is reached and  on a regular basis thereafter. The 
dose range may vary between 1 and 10 capsules per day. 
2. 
Chemical and pharmaceutical aspects  
Renagel hard capsules: 
Composition 
Renagel is presented as white opaque hard gelatin capsules containing 403 mg of sevelamer as active 
ingredient  and  silica,  colloidal  anhydrous  and  stearic  acid  as  excipients.  The  capsules  are  imprinted 
with  the  identification  code  G403.  The  primary  packaging  material  is  composed  of  high  density 
polyethylene bottles (HDPE) with a desiccant canister and pharmaceutical polyester coil. The closure 
consists of a polypropylene child resistant cap with a polystyrene foam inner seal.  
Active substance 
Sevelamer is a non-absorbed phosphate binding poly (allylamine hydrochloride) polymer consisting of 
60  %  free  amine  and  40  %  amine  hydrochloride.  It  is  a  white  to  off-white  hygroscopic  powder, 
insoluble inaqueous and organic solvents.  
1/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sevelamer does not have a distinct melting point. Differential Scanning Calorimetry demonstrates that 
sevelamer  is  an  amorphous  polymer  with  a  single  glass  transition  at  about  118°C.  X-ray  powder 
diffraction analysis has also shown that sevelamer is amorphous with no crystalline structure. 
The  synthesis  of  sevelamer  consists  of  crosslinking  poly  (allylamine  hydrochloride)  with 
epichlorohydrin.The product is washed, dried and ground to the desired particle size to give the active 
substance sevelamer.  
Several  analytical  techniques  have  been  used  to  characterise  sevelamer.  The  quality  of  the  active 
substance is assured by the specifications and the proposed methods are adequately validated.  
Impurities  described  for  the active substance are residual starting materials, inorganic impurities  and 
residual  solvents.  There  are  no  significant  degradation  products.  Impurities  have  been  shown  to  be 
adequately removed in the washing steps or their levels are controlled through preset specifications. 
A  re-test  period  of  12-months  for  the  active  substance,  when  stored  at  25°C,  was  considered 
acceptable. 
Other ingredients 
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation,  colloidal  anhydrous  silica  and  stearic  acid,  are  added  to 
improve the flow of the blend. The excipients comply with Pharmacopoeial monographs. 
The capsule shells arehard gelatin capsules (elongated, size 0) containing gelatin and titanium dioxide. 
Sodium lauryl sulphate and silicon dioxide are added as manufacturing aids to the gelatin. 
Two  of  the  excipients,  stearic  acid  and  gelatin,  may  be  of  bovine  origin.  Satisfactory  assurance  of 
compliance  with  the  CPMP  Note  for  guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  for  transmitting  animal 
spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products (CPMP/BWP/1230/98) has been provided.  
Product development and finished product 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to prepare an immediate release oral dosage form that 
would  disintegrate  in  the  stomach.  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  excipients  do  not  affect  the  in 
vitro  phosphate  binding.  The  final  formulation  enables  high  speed  encapsulation  while  producing 
capsules containing a large amount of active substance.  
The manufacturing process is a conventional process for oral solid capsules consisting of 3 principal 
steps:  sieving,  blending  and  capsule  filling.  Validation  of  the  process  has  been  carried  out  and  in-
process controls are acceptable. 
Control  tests  on  the  finished  product  include  identification  of  the  active  substance,  determination  of 
phosphate  binding  capacity,  uniformity  of  mass,  loss  on  drying,  disintegration  time  and  visual 
description. Results from analyses of 12 commercial scale batches confirm the satisfactory uniformity 
of the product at release.  
For the finished product 24 months stability data at 25°C/60%RH and 12 months at 40°C/75% RH are 
available, and support the storage conditions and shelf-life as defined in the SPC.  
Renagel Film coated tablets: 
Renagel  is  presented  in  this  formulation  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  400  mg  or  800  mg  of 
sevelamer.  
Tablets  are  off-white;  oval  shaped  and  imprinted  with  “RENAGEL  400”  or  “RENAGEL  800”on 
crown in black ink, single side. 
The primary packaging material is composed of high-density polyethylene bottles (HDPE) bottles. The 
closure consists of a polypropylene child resistant cap. 
Active substance 
Sevelamer is the same active substance as that used in the previously approved Renagel 403 mg hard 
capsules. Genzyme Ltd, Haverhill, UK, can supply it by the Dow Chemical Company or. 
2/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other ingredients 
The  tablet  cores  contain  the  same  excipients  as  the  approved  capsules  formulation,  although  in 
different quantities: Silica colloidal anhydrous and stearic acid complient with the specifications and 
test methods of the Ph. Eur. 
The film coating contains hypromellose, purified water and diacetylated monoglycerides. 
guideline 
the  TSE 
covered 
Substances 
(EMEA/CPMP/BWP/1230/98/rev.1)  are  not  included  in,  or  used  during  the  manufacture  of  Renagel 
film-coated tablets. 
Stearic acid and diacetylated monoglycerides are of vegetable origin. 
animal 
origin 
scope 
the 
by 
of 
of 
Product development and finished product 
Sevelamer  in  an  insoluble  non-absorbed  crosslinked  polymer  that  binds  phosphate  in  the  small 
intestine. The manner of dosage is such that Renagel is titrated until the desired serum phospate level 
is achieved. 
The objective of the Renagel film-coated tablet development program was to reduce dosage size and/or 
decrease  the  number  of  units  required  for  dosage  administration.  To  accomplish  these  objectives,  it 
was  necessary  to  maintain  a  high  concentration  of  active  substance  in  the  formulation.  The  tablet 
dosage  form  also  needed  to  retain  the  efficacy  and  immediate  release  characteristics  of  the  capsule 
dosage form. 
The  objective  of  the  tablet  coating  was  to  provide  a  swallowable  tablet,  which  would  retain  the 
immediate  release  characteristics  of  the  capsule  formulation.  Coating  strength  and  elasticity  were 
evaluated  by  exposing  tablets  (open  container)  to  accelerated  stability  conditions,  40°C/75%  RH. 
Under these conditions the tablets absorb moisture (about 30% by weight), which tests the strength and 
elasticity  of  the  coating  and  allows  "weak"  coatings  to  be  identified  because  the  coatings  split.  A 
conventional hypromellose coating was identified which had the desired characteristics when coating 
levels were greater than 4%. Tablets with this coating were prepared on scales from 5 to 170 kg, and 
these  runs  confirmed  that  the  desired  characteristics  (coating  strength,  disintegration  times)  were 
achieved. 
No overages are included in the formulations. 
Stability of the Product 
The stability data show that the tablets meet the proposed shelf life specifications during storage for 12 
months at the long-term conditions (25°C±2°C / 60%± 5% RH) and also at the accelerated conditions 
(40°C±2°C  /  75%±5%  RH).  The  loss  on  drying  results  slightly  increased  at  all  conditions  and  were 
more pronounced at 40°C±2°C / 75%±5% RH. The results showed no increase in the microbial burden 
of Renagel tablets; total aerobic count was always < 100 CFU/g, total moulds and yeasts < 100 CFU/g 
and St. aureus, Ps. aeruginosa, Salmonella and E. coli were absent. 
The proposed shelf life is 24 months when stored at the recommended storage conditions (not above 
25°C, the container tightly closed). 
Bioequivalence 
Because  Renagel  is  not  absorbed,  a  conventional  human  pharmacokinetic  study  to  demonstrate  that 
Renagel film-coated tablet is bioequivalent to the capsule formulation is not appropriate. Therefore in 
vitro phosphate binding studies for the purpose of showing equivalence have been used. The objective 
of  the  studies  was  to  determine  if  the  disintegration  times  and  phosphate  uptake  profiles  of  the  two 
dosage  forms  are  comparable.  All  results  demonstrate  that  the  film-coated  tablet  and  capsule 
disintegration and subsequent phosphate binding are equivalent. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic action of sevelamer has been studied in vitro and in vivo.  
3/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sevelamer contains partially protonated polymer amines, which become close to fully protonated after 
the capsule disintegrates in the stomach. As phosphate is liberated during digestion, the free phosphate 
can diffuse into the polymer and interact with the protonated (cationic) polymer amines. Phosphate is 
preferentially  bound  because  it  is  polyvalent.  The  four  oxygen  atoms  in  the  phosphate  molecule  are 
capable  of  ionic  or  hydrogen  bonding  interactions  with  the  protonated  or  unprotonated  amines  of 
sevelamer.  
Several  short  term  (4-5  day)  animal  studies  were  conducted  to  investigate  the  phosphate  binding 
capacity  of  sevelamer in  vivo.  Oral  administration  of  sevelamer  to  rats  significantly  increased  faecal 
excretion of phosphate and decreased urinary phosphorus levels.  
Studies on urinary and serum electrolytes in rats provide evidence that sevelamer releases chloride ions 
(Cl-  )  in  exchange  for  hydrogen  phosphate  (HPO4).  This  was  confirmed  in  the  repeat  dose  toxicity 
studies in rats and dogs.  In addition  to binding  dietary  phosphates, sevelamer significantly increased 
faecal  excretion  of  bile  acids  which  indicates  that  it  also  binds  bile  acids  due  to  its  ion  exchange 
properties. This may lead to changes in absorption of fat-soluble vitamins and cholesterol. It may also 
affect the pharmacokinetics of drugs having enterohepatic circulation.  
The  applicant  did  not  test  the  receptor  binding  profile  of  sevelamer,  which  was  accepted  due  to  the 
physiochemical  properties  of  the  compound  and  the  absence  of  any  measurable  pharmacodynamic 
effects excluding its phosphate binding properties. 
The  secondary  pharmacology  of  sevelamer  has  been  adequately  investigated.  The  only  effect  of 
sevelamer  found  in  secondary  pharmacology  studies  was  an  increased  resting  tension  of  guinea  pig 
ileum and rat gastric fundus. Sevelamer was devoid of any measurable effects on general behaviour, 
locomotor  activity  or  other  CNS  activity,  body  temperature,  cardiovascular  or  respiratory  control  in 
experimental animals. These findings are in line with the known mode of action of sevelamer and the 
lack  of  absorption  from  the  intestine.  An  additional  safety  pharmacology  study  was  conducted  to 
investigate  the  effects  of  chronic  sevelamer  treatment  (10%  w/w  in  diet  for  2  weeks)  on  blood 
coagulation  in  rats.  At  necropsy,  haemorrhages  in  the  testes and epididymides were  observed in  one 
male.  In  both  males  and  females,  activated  partial  thromboplastin  time  (APTT)  was  significantly 
prolonged  when  compared  to  the  untreated  animals.  Platelet  counts  were  also  lower  in  sevelamer 
treated  animals.  No  changes  were  observed  in  the  fibrinolytic  system  as  measured  by  euglobin  clot 
lysis time. This may be due to reduced absorption of dietary vitamin K. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single  dose  and  repeated  dose  pharmacokinetics  have  been  investigated  in  the  rat  and  dog  using 
radiolabelled  sevelamer.  Neither  whole  body  autoradiography  nor  liquid  scintillation  counting  of 
blood, urine, bile and tissue samples could detect significant amount of radioactivity. It was therefore, 
concluded  that  sevelamer  is  not  absorbed  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract.  In  in  vitro  studies,  no 
significant degradation of sevelamer was demonstrated in simulated gastric fluid (pH 1.2 + pepsin) and 
in the gastrointestinal contents of rats. 
In  rats,  excretion  of  radioactivity  in  the  faeces  following  intake  of  radiolabelled  sevelamer  was  20-
80 % after 12 hours and more than 90 % after 24 hours. Faecal excretion was a little slower in dogs: 30 
%  after  12  hours,  50-75  %  after  24  hours  and  90%  after  48  hours.  Sevelamer  is  excreted  almost 
entirely in the faeces. Only trace amounts of radioactivity were found in the urine. 
The applicant conducted some preclinical drug interaction studies. Studies in beagle dogs showed that 
absorption  of  estrone,  propranolol  and  thyroxine  may  be  delayed  by  concomitant  absorption  with 
sevelamer. In vitro, sevelamer was shown to bind a number of anionic drugs. However, the relevance 
of in vitro data is very limited since a number of compounds, including phosphates will compete with 
drug binding to sevelamer.  
Toxicology  
Single  dose  toxicity  in  rodents  and  dogs  showed  that  sevelamer-administered  p.o.  has  a  low  acute 
toxicity profile, with the highest doses tested being well tolerated.  
Repeated dose toxicity of sevelamer after oral administration was studied in rats (up to 26 weeks) and 
dogs  (up  to  52  weeks).  Chronic  sevelamer  treatment  was  generally  well  tolerated.  In  the  rat  studies 
increased  numbers  of  hemorrhages  were  found,  particularly  in  males  at  high  dose  groups  (10 
4/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
g/kg/day). The applicant considered that this effect was likely to be due to reduced absorption of fat-
soluble  vitamins  and  particularly  that  of  vitamin  K.  Evidence  for  that  was  seen  in  prolongation  of 
protrombin  time  and/or  APTT.  When high dose sevelamer was given with fat-soluble vitamins D, E 
and K, no hemorrhages were seen in groups of mice or rats. No target organ toxicity was observed in 
rats  or  dogs  as  evidenced  by  gross  anatomical  observations  and  histopathological  studies.  Some 
evidence of gastrointestinal toxicity was found in rats, as gastric mucosa thickening was occasionally 
seen (a dose-dependent phenomen in female rats). In addition, eosinophilic crystalloid material, which 
is likely to be sevelamer based, was found in intestinal lumen in high dose rats. A possible explanation 
for  this  is  that  high  dose  sevelamer  could  induce  submucosal  oedema  due  to  increased  osmotic 
pressure. These findings were not considered to be of clinical relevance.  
Other observations in rats and dogs were decreased levels of vitamin D and E, and serum cholesterol. 
The  preclinical  observations  on  fat-soluble  vitamins  have  been  noted  in  section  5.3  of  the  SPC. 
Furthermore,  in  rats  sevelamer  seemed  to  increase  serum  levels  of  copper  at  high  doses  (15-30  x 
human  doses).  In  a  number  of  studies  serum  levels  of  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT),  aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (AP) and blood urea nitrogen increased in both male and 
female animals. Possible mechanisms for these enzyme level rises remain unexplained. However, since 
rises  were  moderate  and  there  were  no  histopathological  findings  in  organs,  these  observations  are 
probably of no clinical relevance. 
Reproduction  toxicity  was  adequately  investigated  in  rats  and  rabbits,  although  peri-and  postnatal 
studies were not performed. Given the intended use of sevelamer and lack of its systemic absorption, 
this  can  be  accepted.  In  high  doses  (1  to  4.0  g/kg/day)  reduction  in  foetal  ossification  was  found  in 
rats. This was probably related to reductions in vitamin D and/or reduction in absorption of phosphates 
from the gastrointestinal tract.  
Sevelamer was non-mutagenic in the Ames test. In Chinese Hamster Ovary cells, sevelamer induced a 
slight increase of structural chromosomal aberrations at high concentrations only. This was suggested 
to  be  due  to  sevelamer's  ability  to  absorb  the  culture  medium  and  not  direct  action.  In  the  mouse 
micronucleus test in vivo sevelamer was negative.  
Currently, no formal carcinogenicity data are available. However, in vitro and in vivo studies have 
indicated that Renagel does not have genotoxic potential. Also the medicinal product is not absorbed in 
the gastrointestinal tract. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  clinical  program  aimed  to  demonstrate  that  Renagel  is  an  effective  phosphate  binder  for  the 
reduction of serum phosphate levels in patients with end-stage renal failure (ESRF) onhaemodialysis. 
The  clinical  documentation  consisted  of  a  total  of  12  studies,  6  phases  I  studies  in  136  healthy 
volunteers,  3  phase  II  studies  and  3  phase  III  studies  in  a  total  of  408  ESRF  patients,  with  one 
extension study in 192 patients.  
Clinical pharmacology 
A summary of phase I studies conducted with Renagel is provided in Table 1. 
5/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No. 
Healthy 
Volunteers 
24 
20 
28 
31 
14 
19 
Dose of 
Renagel 
(g/day)* 
2.85 to 
14.25 
Other 
Therapy 
Placebo 
6.6 to 7.1 
None 
Duration 
Single dose 
7 day washout 
8 days multiple 
dose (tid) 
Mutiple dose for 
up to 32 days 
2.418 
Enalapril, 
single dose 
Single dose, 7-
day washout 
Table 1: Overview of Phase I studies with Renagel 
Protocol/ 
Reference 
Study Design 
Double blind, 
placebo 
controlled, 
parallel group  
Open label, 
parallel group, 
pk study 
Open label, 
crossover, pk 
interaction 
study 
As above 
GTC-02-101/1 
GTC-10-801/2 
45/804 
45/803 
013821 
013769 
As above 
As above 
2.418 for  
2 days 
“ 
“ 
Metoprolol 
tartrate, 
single dose 
Warfarin, 
single dose 
Digoxin, 
single dose 
“ 
2 days, 14 day 
washout 
“ 
*  
Actual doses expressed as anhydrous dose 
Pharmacodynamics 
One  pharmacodynamic  study  (study  101)  was  conducted  in  24  healthy  volunteers  on  a  phosphate-
controlled diet. The objectives of the study were to determine the safety and tolerance of single doses 
of sevelamer (1, 2.5 and 5 g) and to determine the safety, tolerance and efficacy of multiple doses of 
sevelamer (placebo or 1, 2.5 and 5 g t.i.d. for 8 days). This study demonstrated the phosphate-binding 
capacity  of  sevelamer  following  repeated  administration.  A  dose-dependent  decrease  in  total  urine 
phosphorus and increases in the ratio of stool to urine phosphorus were observed. Consistent changes 
in  serum  phosphorus  or  calcium  concentrations  were  not  observed.  Serum  cholesterol  decreased 
clinically significantly from baseline in all sevelamer groups (up to 24 % decrease at the highest dose 
compared to 3 % increases in the placebo group). No serious adverse events occurred during the study. 
Slight decreases in prothrombin time and vitamin D25 were observed during sevelamer treatment. 
Pharmacokinetics 
One  pharmacokinetic  study  in  20  healthy  young  and  elderly  subjects  was  conducted.  Subjects  were 
given  non-radiolabelled  sevelamer  for  28  days,  followed  by  5  x  465  mg  capsules  of  14C-labelled 
sevelamer  as  a  single  dose,  then  2.325  g  t.i.d.  of  non-radiolabelled  sevelamer  for  4  days.  Detectable 
amounts of sevelamer were not present in whole blood. In approximately one third of subjects, 0.02 % 
or less of the dose was recovered in urine and in all of the subjects except one, at least 90 % of the 
dose was recovered in faeces within 7 days (mean 99.57 %). The small amount of radioactivity in urine 
is  considered  to  represent  absorbed  unbound  radiolabel.  According  to  this  study,  no  absorption 
occurred  in  healthy  subjects  at  the  clinically  relevant  daily  dose  of  approximately  7g.  However,  it 
cannot  be  ruled  out  that  absorption  may  increase  in  presence  of  bowel  obstruction  or  inflammatory 
bowel disease. 
The pharmacokinetics of sevelamer have not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease or in 
any special patient groups.  
According to preclinical studies, sevelamer is a bile-acid binding compound. In contrast, four clinical 
pharmacokinetic  interaction  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  did  not  reveal  any  clinically  significant 
interactions  between  sevelamer  and  digoxin  (known  to  interact  with  cholestyramine,  enterohepatic 
circulation), warfarin (known to interact with cholestyramine, positive in vitro binding to sevelamer), 
enalapril (positive in vitro binding) and metoprolol. All these drugs are frequently used and medically 
relevant in the ESRF population. Interaction studies have not been conducted in ESRF patients, where 
6/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
drug  elimination  in  faeces  becomes  even  more  important  than  in  healthy  volunteers.    Therefore  it  is 
advised to check for interactions on a regular basis.  
Efficacy 
The applicant presented six clinical studies, one of which was an open extension trial. An overview of 
these studies is provided in tables 2 and 3.  
Description of studies: 
Patient  population:  The  efficacy  studies  enrolled  patients  with  ESRF.  The  mean  age  of  the  patients 
was  approximately  55  years.  Approximately  half  of  the  patients  were  African-Americans.  The 
aetiology of ESRF was hypertension in approximately 30 % and diabetes in 23 % to 37 % of patients. 
Only 0-16 % had received prior aluminium-based phosphate binders, the rest of the patient population 
had received calcium carbonate or calcium acetate. Approximately 50-67 % received vitamin D. The 
proportion  of  patients  who  had  undergone  parathyroidectomy  ranged  from  1%  to  13%.  The  median 
duration of dialysis ranged from 3.0 to 4.3 years and the mean Kt/V as a measure of effectiveness of 
dialysis therapy ranged from 1.4 to 1.5, indicating adequate control. 
The safety and efficacy of Renagel has not been studied in children, predialysis patients and in patients 
receiving peritoneal dialysis. The major inclusion criteria in the clinical studies were age = 18 years, 
haemodialysis  for  three  months  or  longer,  oral  phosphate  binder  treatment  (calcium  or  aluminium), 
stable  vitamin  D  dose  (or  no  vitamin  D),  stable  diet,  negative  pregnancy  test  and  an  acceptable 
contraceptive  method.  Patients  with  poorly  controlled  diabetes  mellitus  or  hypertension,  intestinal 
motility  disorder,  abnormal  or  irregular  bowel  function  or  history  of  major  gastrointestinal  tract 
surgery  were  excluded  from  the  efficacy  and  safety  studies.  Other  major  exclusion  criteria  included 
history of swallowing disorders, use of antiarrhythmic or seizure medications, evidence of malignancy 
except for basal cell carcinoma of the skin, and substance abuse. This information has been included in 
the SPC. 
Efficacy  parameters:  The  primary  efficacy  measure  in  all  of  the  studies  was  the  change  in  serum 
phosphorus  (Pi)  from  washout  to  end  of  treatment.  Secondary  variables  included  serum  calcium, 
calcium  x  phosphorus,  serum  intact  parathyroid  hormone  (iPTH),  cholesterol,  LDL  cholesterol  and 
triglycerides.  
There  is,  currently,  no  well-defined  threshold  for  the  benefit  of  lowering  S-Pi.  The  study  protocols 
defined S-Pi response as a decrease to 1.78 mmol/l [5.5 mg/dl] or less, or return to prewashout levels 
(i.e. concentration preceding washout). At the request of the CPMP the effect of sevelamer in all the 
dose titration trials was analysed with a responder defined as a decrease to less than 1.78 mmol/l 
[5.5 mg/dl]. 
Exploratory  studies/Phase  II:  three  phases  II  studies  enrolling  a  total  of  180  patients  (147  received 
sevelamer) have been carried out, as summarised in Table 2 below.  
Table 2: Overview of Phase II studies with Renagel 
Protocol/ 
Reference 
Study Design 
GTC-10-201/3 
GTC-10-202/4 
GTC-36-203/5 
Double blind, 
placebo 
controlled, 
parallel group 
Open label, 
dose titration 
Open label, 
dose titration, 
parallel group 
Dose of 
Renagel 
(g/day)* 
0.95 to 8.0 
Other 
Therapy 
Placebo 
0.76 to 7.4  None 
0 to 11.0 
CaCO3 
supplements 
(2.25 g/day) 
*  
Actual doses expressed as anhydrous dose 
No. 
Patients 
Treated 
36 
48 
75 
Duration 
2 weeks CaCO3 or 
CaAC  
2 weeks washout 
2 weeks Renagel or 
placebo 
2 weeks washout 
8 weeks Renagel  
2 weeks washout 
2 weeks washout 
12 weeks Renagel or 
Renagel + CaCO3 
2 weeks washout 
7/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study 201, dose titration was not possible as the treatment phase of the study was limited to 2 weeks. 
A total of 38 patients were enrolled and 36 patients received sevelamer (n=24) or placebo (n=12).   
In  study  202  patients  who  were  hyperphosphatemic  following  washout  were  enrolled.  Patients  were 
treated  with  sevelamer  for  8  weeks;  the  starting  dose  was  determined  on  the  basis  of  washout  S-Pi 
(500-1500  mg  t.i.d.  with  meals).  A  total  of  48  patients  received  sevelamer  in  the  study,  28  patients 
were  included  in  the  per  protocol  analysis  (6  did  not  complete  the  study,  1  discontinued,  15  non 
compliers). The final prescribed dose was 12-18 capsules/day (6-9 g/day) in the majority of patients.  
Study  203  was  a  12-week  dose  titration  study  of  Renagel  vs.  Renagel  with  evening  dose  of  calcium 
carbonate. Calcium supplements were given to overcome possible hypocalcaemia. Patients who were 
hyperphosphatemic following washout were enrolled. A total of 94 patients were screened, 75 received 
study  medication  and  55  patients  completed  the  study.  The  starting  dose  was  adjusted  according  to 
washout S-Pi. The mean dose was 3.9 g/d for week 1-3 of treatment, 4.4 g/d for week 4-6, 5.0 g/d for 
week 7-9, and 5.1 g/d for week 10-12 of treatment.  
Main studies:  
The  phase  III  studies  were  of  open-label  design.  The  studies  consisted  of  one  crossover  study 
comparing sevelamer and calcium acetate (8 weeks) and one dose titration study (8 weeks, sevelamer 
alone) enrolled a total of 326 patients (256 received sevelamer). There was one uncontrolled, extended 
use study (up to 44 weeks) in 192 patients. 
Table 3: Overview of Phase III studies with Renagel 
Protocol/ 
Reference 
Study Design 
GTC-36-301/6  
Open label, 
dose titration, 
crossover 
Dose of 
Renagel 
(g/day)* 
0 to 12.6 
Other 
Therapy 
CaAc (2 to 
12 g/day) 
GTC-36-302/7 
GTC-36-901/8 
Open label, 
dose titration 
Open label, 
dose extension 
0.88 to 11.0  None 
1.8 to 10.3  None 
Duration 
2 weeks washout 
8 weeks Renagel or 
CaAc 
2 weeks washout 
8 weeks Renagel or 
CaAc 
2 weeks washout 
2 weeks washout 
8 weeks Renagel 
2 weeks washout 
2 weeks washout 
44 weeks Renagel 
2 weeks wshout 
No. 
Patients 
Treated 
84 
172 
192 + 
*  
+  
Actual doses expressed as anhydrous dose 
Patients who previously received Renagel in a clinical study (includes 7 treatment naive 
patients).  
Study 301 was an open-label crossover study of Renagel and calcium acetate. Treatment duration was 
8 weeks and the starting dose was based on the degree of hyperphosphataemia and ranged from 0.93 to 
1.86  g  t.i.d.  The  starting  doses  of  calcium  acetate  ranged  from  0.677  to  2.0  g  t.i.d.  Dose  were 
subsequently  adjusted  to  achieve  a  S-Pi  of  2.5-5.5  mg/dl.  The  Intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population 
consisted  of  83  patients  and  the  per-protocol  (PP)  population  of  35  patients.  Fourteen  patients  were 
excluded due to less than 8 weeks of treatment, 27 due to less than 70 % compliance, and 7 patients 
due to failure to maintain a stable vitamin D dose. The overall mean actual daily dose for Renagel and 
calcium  acetate  in  the  ITT  population  was  4.3  and  4.4  g/day.  Compliance  was  comparable  in  the 
groups (79% and 78%) in the ITT population.  
Study  302  was  an  open-label,  uncontrolled  dose  titration  study  of  8  weeks  duration.  Following  the 
screening period, patients entered a 2-week phosphate binder washout period. Renagel treatment was 
given  to  patients  who  became  hyperphosphatemic  (serum phosphate > 6.0 mg/dL). Starting doses of 
sevelamer  were  0.93-1.86 g  t.i.d  depending  on  washout  S-Pi.  Dose  was  subsequently  adjusted  as  in 
study  301.  The  ITT  population  consisted  of  168  patients  and  the  PP  population  of  107  patients.  28 
8/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients were excluded due to less than 8 weeks of treatment, 25 due to less than 70 % compliance, 8 
patients due to failure to maintain a stable vitamin D dose, and 2 patients prescribed calcium carbonate. 
The mean actual daily dose for Renagel in the ITT and PP populations was 10.7 and 11.4 capsules per 
day respectively. Compliance was 85 % in the ITT population. 
Study  901  is  an  extended-use  (up  to  44  weeks)  study  in  192  patients,  which  focused  on  long-term 
safety.  The  majority  of  patients  had  received  Renagel  for  8-12  weeks  in  their  preceding  study  (202, 
203, 301 or 302). The extension  protocol allowed the use of variable vitamin D and dietary calcium 
supplements, which were adjusted at the discretion of the investigators. Of the 192 patients, 34% used 
Renagel plus calcium supplements with average doses of 800 mg of elemental calcium. At study entry, 
74% of patients were using vitamin D (66% i.v. and 8% oral). During the study 34% had a net increase 
in vitamin D with 11% initiating vitamin D. Eleven percent of patients had a net decrease in vitamin D 
dose. 
Results 
Serum phosphate: The mean changes observed in the primary efficacy variable S-Pi are summarised in 
table 4 below: 
Table 4: Changes in serum phosphate (mmol/L) 
Study 
Number 
202* 
203* 
301* 
302* 
901** 
Renagel 
35 
-0.77 
-0.87 
0.58 
-0.96 
Renagel 
+Calcium 
36 
-0.74 
-0.68 
0.71 
-0.97 
Renagel 
Calcium 
Acetate 
80 
-0.65 
-0.68 
0.74 
-0.81 
-0.68 
-0.71 
0.61 
-0.81 
48 
-0.45 
-0.42 
0.65 
-0.63 
166 
-0.81 
-0.81 
0.74 
-0.92 
192 
-0.71 
-0.71 
0.77 
-0.82 
-0.27 
-0.58 
-0.51 
-0.49 
-0.55 
-0.70 
-0.60 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
N 
Mean 
Median 
Std dev 
Lower 
95% CI 
Upper 
95% CI 
p-value 
*  
** 
0.0001 
ITT population 
Safety population 
Renagel resulted in a statistically significant decrease in serum Pi from baseline (washout). Using the 
definition of S-Pi response as defined in the protocols (decrease to 1.78 mmol/l [5.5 mg/dl] or less, or 
return  to  prewashout  levels),  there  were no statistically significant differences between treatments  in 
studies 203 and 301.  
At  the  request  of  the  CPMP  the  effect  of  sevelamer  was  analysed  with  a  responder  defined  as  a 
decrease to less than or equal to 1.78 mmol/l [5.5 mg/dl]. Dose response was modelled in the largest of 
the  phase  III  studies  (study  302).  To  provide  information  on  the  average  dose,  patients  were 
categorised by the severity of their baseline hyperphosphataemia into one of three levels as specified in 
the protocol. The results are provided in table 5. 
9/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  5:  The  mean  doses  of  Renagel  required  to  lower  S-Pi  to  less  than  or  equal  to  1.78  mmol/l  in 
study 302 
Mean Dose of Renagel (grams) 
3.4 
5.3 
6.3 
Baseline serum phosphate (mmol/l) 
1.78 to <2.42 
 2.42 to < 2.91 
 = 2.91 
The results support the starting doses of 2.4 grams, 3.6 grams and 4.8 grams based on serum phosphate 
level as recommended in the SPC. 
Serum calcium: Generally, a modest effect (increase) on serum calcium was observed when Renagel 
was used alone. When combined with 3 x 750 mg calcium carbonate, slight increases were observed. 
However, in study 301, statistically significant increases in S-Ca were observed in both Renagel and 
calcium  acetate  groups,  although  the  increases  were  clearly  more  marked  in  the  latter  group.  When 
used alone (without calcium supplements), the risk of hypercalcemia may be smaller during Renagel 
treatment  compared  with  calcium  acetate.  This  is  reflected  in  the  results  of  study  301(incidence  of 
hypercalcemic  events  was  18.5%  in  the  Renagel  group  and  45.1%  in  the  calcium  acetate  group, 
p=0.002). There is no data on the relative risk of hypercalcemias compared with alternatives (Ca-based 
phosphate  binders)  when  Renagel  is  used  in  combination  with  both  calcium  supplements  and 
adjustable  vitamin  D  (actually  in  the  majority  of  patients  in  the  clinical  setting).  This  issue  will  be 
addressed further in a long term comparative study which will be undertaken by the applicant. 
Serum  intact  parathyroid  hormone  (iPTH):  Renagel  alone  did  not  consistently  suppress  iPTH  to  a 
clinically  significant  degree  and  was  clearly  less  effective  in  iPTH  control  than  calcium  acetate. 
Renagel should, therefore, be used in a multitherapeutic approach including vitamin D and/or calcium 
"supplements" (see SPC).  
Calcium  x  Phosphorus  product  (Ca  x  Pi):  A  consistent  and  significant  reduction  in  Ca  x  Pi  product 
was observed with Renagel alone or combined with calcium supplements. The reduction after 8 weeks 
was of similar magnitude to that observed during calcium acetate treatment. At this stage conclusions 
cannot  be  drawn  on  the  effect  of  Renagel  on  Ca  x  Pi  product  when  used  together  with  calcium 
supplements  and/or  adjustable  vitamin  D  compared  to  established  treatment,  but  the  use  of  Renagel 
with  calcium  supplementation  does  not  pose  a  safety  risk  with  regard  to  calcium  x  phosphorous 
product.  The  CPMP,  therefore,  agreed  that  this  could  be  addressed  further  in  the  randomised 
comparative study, which will be undertaken by the applicant.  
Cholesterol,  LDL  cholesterol  and  triglycerides:  Total  cholesterol  and  LDL  cholesterol  decreased 
during  Renagel  treatment,  while  HDL  cholesterol  and  triglycerides  did  not  change.  This  has  been 
reflected in the SPC. Low HDL and elevated triglycerides are not an uncommon combination in ESRF 
patients.  
Interestingly, the changes in serum phosphorus and LDL cholesterol were significantly greater in non-
African-American  as  compared  to  African-American.  As  Renagel  dose  will  be  individualised 
according to serum Pi concentration, this difference is not considered to warrant special precautions.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
The safety and efficacy of Renagel has not been studied in children. This information is included in the 
SPC. 
Clinical safety 
The assessment of safety of sevelamer is based on data from 384 patients who received sevelamer and 
includes phase II and III studies, with the exception of study 201 (excluded due to the short treatment 
period and low doses of sevelamer used).  
With regard to sevelamer dose, 28% of the patients were in the low group (<4.5 g), 28% were in the 
medium dose group (4.5-6.0 g) and 43% were in the high dose group (>6.0 g). The mean duration of 
exposure was 172 days (25 weeks). There was a significant difference across the dose groups for age 
category: the percentage of patients less than 55 years of age was 28% in the low dose group and 66% 
in the high dose group. Mean length of exposure was higher in the high dose group compared to low 
dose group. 
10/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 384 patients exposed to Renagel in the pooled analysis, 58 discontinued due to adverse events, 
20  withdrew  consent,  13  terminated  due  to  death,  2  were  terminated  due  to  non-compliance,  4  were 
lost  to  follow-up  and  22  were  discontinued  due  to  “other  reason”.  Six  additional  patients  died 
following study discontinuation or completion.  
Overall, a total of 81 adverse events required discontinuation. Of these, 17 adverse events were judged 
possibly  or  probably  related.  These  consisted  of  vomiting,  nausea,  heartburn, gagging, insomnia  and 
poor appetite, abdominal pain, acne and dry skin, worsened hair loss, diarrhoea and dyspepsia. 
The  relatively  large  overall  rate  of  adverse  events  (91%)  is  probably  a  reflection  of  the  patient 
population. Body as a whole was the body system with most frequent occurrence (68%). Within this 
body  system,  pain  was the most frequent adverse event  (30%). The  next most frequent  body system 
was the digestive system (63%). Gastrointestinal undesirable effects are expected. 
Overall,  27%  of  patients  had  mild  AEs,  37%  experienced  moderate  and  28%  experienced  severe 
adverse  events.  There  was  no  overall  difference  between  males  and  females  in  the  frequency  of 
adverse events. 
Treatment-emergent  adverse  events  judged  as  possibly  or  probably  related  to  study  treatment  were 
experienced  by  35%  of  patients  and  the  frequencies  were  comparable  across  the  dose  groups.  18% 
experienced  mild,  16%  moderate  and  1%  severe  adverse  events.  There  was  no  clear  relationship 
between dose and severity or dose and  frequency. Five treatment-emergent  adverse events showed a 
significant trend with regard to sevelamer dose: accidental injury (10%, 11% and 19%), cardiovascular 
disorder (1%, 2% and 7%), coughs increase (7%, 12% and 19%), pharyngitis (1%, 5% and 10%) and 
rash (0%, 2% and 5%). The clinical significance of these findings remains unclear, and they have been 
listed in the SPC accordingly. 
Case  narratives  of  all  deaths  were  provided  in  the  dossier.  Fourteen  of  the  19  deaths  were  due  to 
cardiovascular causes, three due to infection, one due to renal carcinoma and one due to homicide. It is 
recognized that 40% of deaths in ESRF patients are due to cardiovascular causes. None of the deaths 
were judged related to Renagel treatment. 
Altogether  290  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  in  140  patients  (37%).  A  dose  trend  was  only 
observed  for  congestive  heart  failure  (inverse  trend)  and  gastrointestinal  hemorrhage  (inverse  trend). 
The largest proportion of SAEs was reported for the cardiovascular system. 
No  consistent  or  clinically  meaningful  changes  in  serum  electrolytes  attributable  to  treatment  were 
evident.  Dose-related  increases  were  observed  in  serum  alkaline  phosphatase  and  bone-specific 
alkaline phosphatase. In the highest dose  group  serum  alkaline phosphatase increased from a normal 
mean  value  to  a  mean  value  at  the  upper  limit  of  normal.  The  increase  in  bone-AFOS  was 
approximately  54-56%.  Liver  alkaline  phosphatase  tended  to  decrease.  The  increases  observed  in 
bone-AFOS raise concern with regard to the risk of osteitis fibrosa, although the applicant considered 
these changes clinically unimportant. No clinically significant changes were observed in ALT, serum 
protein, prealbumin or globulin. 
With  regard  to  complete  blood  cell  count  data,  slight,  but  statistically  significant  changes  were 
observed  in  platelet  count,  red  cell  count  (decrease),  Hb  (decrease),  MCHC  (decrease),  MCV 
(increase). Any possible effect on iron absorption would be hidden due to changes in iron preparation 
dose  on  demand  based  on  follow-up  of  iron  status.  In  the  absence  of  comparative  long  term  data, 
clinically significant effects on iron absorption cannot be excluded. However, iron status is routinely 
monitored in dialysis patients. 
With regard to folate, a trendwise decrease during only 8 weeks of treatment is suggested by the data 
based on one small (n=83) uncontrolled study. Possible development of folate deficiency during long 
term treatment cannot be excluded. Folate status is not part of routine follow up. A recommendation to 
monitor folate status during treatment has been included in Section 4.4. of the SPC. 
Fat soluble vitamins are of special interest due to the bile acid binding characteristics of sevelamer.  
As  expected  due  to  the  LDL  cholesterol  lowering  effect  of  sevelamer,  vitamin  E  levels  decreased 
slightly. Sevelamer did not appear to have clinically significant effects on the absorption of vitamin A 
in  short-term  studies,  and  based  on  coagulation  parameters,  vitamin  K  status  was  not  adversely 
affected. However,  clinically  significant effects  cannot be ruled out in the intended long-term use of 
11/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sevelamer. Furthermore, the patients included in these studies were probably not undernourished and 
did not have significant gastrointestinal pathology. Until more experience of long-term use is gained, a 
warning that patients may develop low vitamin A, D, E and K levels has been included in section4.4 of 
the  SPC,  with  a  recommendation  that  levels  of  these  vitamins  be  monitored  and  supplemented  if 
necessary. 
Serum chloride may increase during Renagel treatment as chloride may be exchanged for phosphate in 
the  intestinal  lumen.  Although,  no  clinically  significant  increase  in  serum  chloride  was  observed 
during  clinical  studies,  a  recommendation  that  serum  chloride  be  monitored  as  done  in  the  normal 
follow up of a dialysis patient is included in the SPC.   
5. 
Overall Conclusions and benefit risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  Summary  of  Products  Characteristics  (SPC).  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects 
relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled 
in a satisfactory way. A number of minor chemical and pharmaceutical issues remained at the time of 
the CPMP Opinion and will be resolved as follow-up measures. 
Pre-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  main  pharmacodynamic  effect  of  sevelamer  and  its  mechanism  of  action  have  been  adequately 
demonstrated in the primary pharmacodynamic studies. The secondary pharmacology studies showed 
that sevelamer is devoid of any measurable effects on general behaviour, locomotor activity or other 
CNS  activity,  body  temperature,  cardiovascular  or  respiratory  control  in  experimental  animals. 
Preclinical  pharmacokinetic  studies  demonstrated  that  sevelamer  is  excreted  entirely  in  the  faeces 
without significant systemic absorption. 
Overall, the toxicology program revealed that sevelamer is generally well tolerated without any major 
signs of systemic toxicity. The decreased serum levels of vitamin D, vitamin E and folic acid as well as 
the coagulation defect detected at high doses in rats, likely to result from vitamin K deficiency, can be 
ascribed  to  adsorption  of  the  vitamin  itself  (folic  acid)  or  of  biliary  acids  to  the  polymer.  This 
information has been included in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
A  consistent  and  clinically  significant  effect  of  sevelamer  on  serum  phosphorus  in  haemodialysis 
patients has been demonstrated in short term (up to 2 weeks double-blind vs. placebo, up to 8 weeks 
open vs. calcium acetate) crossover trials. No comparative long-term data are available on the effects 
of Renagel on serum phosphorus in haemodialysis patients. The CPMP accepted, however, that in the 
ESRF population receiving haemodialysis treatment, it would be ethically problematic to perform long 
term  double  blind  placebo-controlled  studies  due  to  risks  involved  with  hyperphosphatemia.  It  was 
also recognised that suitably masked controlled parallel group studies vs. calcium-based binders can be 
problematic because calcium based binders may be easily identified by experienced patients because of 
their texture  and because they lead to predictable increases in serum calcium, whereas Renagel does 
not. This was highlighted in the open-label randomised cross-over study 301. 
The clinical programme was limited in that the studies were performed in a relatively small number of 
patients  who  were  on  chronic  haemodialysis  treatment.  Predialysis  patients,  paediatric  patients  and 
patients  receiving  peritoneal  dialysis  were  excluded.  None  of  the  controlled  studies  were  carried  out 
under conditions mimicking the actual setting in which this treatment option would be used. In ESRF 
patients  the  control  of  hyperparathyroidism  is  closely  linked  to  the  treatment  of  hyperphosphatemia. 
The  standard  management  of  both  conditions  consists  of  dietary  phosphate  restriction,  dialysis, 
phosphate binders and vitamin D. Calcium based phosphate binders decrease S-Pi and increase S-Ca. 
Both factors suppress iPTH. If iPTH suppression is not sufficient, vitamin D is used.  
Renagel  decreases  S-Pi,  but  has  a  modest  effect  on  calcium.  Whether  Renagel  has  a  clinically 
significant effect on iPTH has not been consistently demonstrated. In clinical practice the majority of 
ESRF patients will need vitamin D to control secondary hyperparathyroidism and calcium supplements 
12/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in case of hypocalcaemia, as noted in the SPC.  Only the uncontrolled extension study 901 provided 
information on the combined use of Renagel with calcium supplements and/or adjustable vitamin D in 
the "real life setting".  
To clarify the role of Renagel in the management of secondary hyperparathyroidism in the unavoidable 
combination  treatment  setting,  a  long  term  comparative  study  vs.  calcium-based  phosphate  binders 
with or without adjustable vitamin Dwill be conducted.  
Safety 
The safety database had its limitations, in that there was a ”relative lack” of controlled trials. However, 
on the basis of the data provided, the CPMP considered the overall safety profile of sevelamer to be 
acceptable.  Safety  has  been  adequately  demonstrated  during  short-term  treatment,  with  undesirable 
effects consisting of mainly gastrointestinal symptoms and the extension trial (study 901) suggested a 
similar safety profile.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Although  there  were  limitations  in  the  clinical  data,  the  CPMP  acknowledged  that  a  consistent  and 
clinically  significant  effect  of  sevelamer  on  serum  phosphorus  in  haemodialysis  patients  had  been 
demonstrated. The safety profile of sevelamer is acceptable. Further data from a longer term controlled 
clinical trial was requested by the CPMP.  
During an oral explanation held before the CPMP on 21 September 1999, the applicant addressed the 
place of Renagel compared to standard therapy and the additional clinical data that would be provided 
as post-authorisation commitments.  
To address the need for comparative long term data on the effects of Renagel on serum phosphorous, 
calcium  and  iPTH  in  haemodialysis  patients,  as  well  as  effects  on  bone,  the  applicant  committed  to 
perform additional clinical studies.  
Based on the data available on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus that the 
provisional  overall  benefit/risk  profile  of  Renagel  is  favourable.  The  CPMP  adopted  a  favourable 
opinion  under  exceptional  circumstances  for  granting  a  marketing  authorisation  for  Renagel  for  the 
control  of  hyperphosphatemia  in  adult  patients  on  haemodialysis,  within  the  context  of  a  multiple 
therapeutic approach. 
The  applicant  agreed  to  provide  the  additional  clinical  data  requested  within  a  specific  timeframe. 
These data will form the basis of a re-assessment of the benefit/risk ratio of Renagel. 
13/13 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
