EMA/637201/2014 
EMEA/H/C/000254 
EPAR summary for the public 
Renagel 
sevelamer hydrochloride 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Renagel. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Renagel. 
What is Renagel? 
Renagel is a medicine that contains the active substance sevelamer hydrochloride. It is available as 
tablets (400 and 800 mg). 
What is Renagel used for? 
Renagel is used to control hyperphosphataemia (high blood phosphate levels) in adults on dialysis (a 
blood clearance technique used in patients with kidney disease). It can be used in patients undergoing 
haemodialysis (dialysis using a blood filtration machine) or peritoneal dialysis (where fluid is pumped 
into the abdomen and an internal body membrane filters the blood). Renagel should be used with other 
treatments such as calcium or vitamin D supplements to control the development of bone disease. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Renagel used? 
The recommended starting dose of Renagel depends on the level of phosphate in the blood and ranges 
from 800 to 1,600 mg three times a day. The dose of Renagel should be adjusted to ensure that the 
blood phosphate level stays below 1.76 mmol/l. Patients should take Renagel tablets whole with meals 
and stick to their prescribed diets. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Renagel work? 
Patients with long-term kidney disease cannot eliminate phosphate from their bodies. This leads to 
hyperphosphataemia, which, in the long term, can cause complications such as heart and bone 
disease. The active substance in Renagel, sevelamer hydrochloride, is a phosphate binder. When taken 
with meals, it attaches to phosphate from food within the gut, preventing it from being absorbed into 
the body. This helps to reduce the phosphate levels in the blood. 
How has Renagel been studied? 
In haemodialysis, Renagel has been studied in two short-term studies lasting eight weeks and one 
longer study lasting 44 weeks. The first study compared Renagel with calcium acetate (another 
phosphate-lowering medicine) in 84 patients. The second, which did not compare Renagel with any 
other medicines, included 172 patients. The longer study looked at the use of Renagel in 192 patients, 
the majority of whom had taken Renagel in previous studies. 
In peritoneal dialysis, there has been one study comparing Renagel with calcium acetate in 143 
patients over 12 weeks. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in blood phosphate levels 
between the start and the end of treatment. 
What benefit has Renagel shown during the studies? 
Renagel produced a significant decrease in serum phosphate in all of the studies. 
In the comparative study of patients undergoing haemodialysis, there was an average fall of 0.65 
mmol/l over the eight weeks of Renagel treatment, compared with 0.68 mmol/l when the patients 
were taking calcium acetate. Patients taking Renagel had a similar fall in phosphate levels in the 
second study. In the third, there was an average fall of 0.71 mmol/l over 44 weeks. 
In the study of patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis, the patients receiving Renagel had similar falls 
in phosphate as the patients receiving calcium acetate (0.52 and 0.58 mmol/l, respectively). 
What is the risk associated with Renagel? 
The most common side effects with Renagel (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are nausea (feeling 
sick) and vomiting. For the full list of all side effects reported with Renagel, see the package leaflet. 
Renagel must not be used in people with hypophosphataemia (low blood phosphate levels) or with 
bowel obstruction (a blockage in the gut). 
Why has Renagel been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Renagel’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Renagel? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Renagel is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Renagel, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Renagel  
EMA/637201/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Renagel 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Renagel on 28 January 2000.  
The full EPAR for Renagel can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Renagel, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2014. 
Renagel  
EMA/637201/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
