EMA/357790/2019  
EMEA/H/C/000993 
Renvela (sevelamer carbonate) 
An overview of Renvela and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Renvela and what is it used for? 
Renvela is a medicine used to control hyperphosphataemia (high blood phosphate levels) in: 
• 
• 
adult patients on dialysis (a technique to remove unwanted substances from the blood); 
adults and children from 6 years of age with chronic (long-term) kidney disease. 
Renvela should be used with other treatments such as calcium supplements and vitamin D to prevent 
the development of bone disease. 
It contains the active substance sevelamer carbonate. 
How is Renvela used? 
Renvela is available as tablets (800 mg) and as powder (0.8 g, 1.6 g and 2.4 g) in a sachet to be taken 
3 times a day with meals.  
The dose to take depends on the patient’s level of blood phosphate and, in case of children, their 
height and weight. Renvela must not be taken on an empty stomach and patients should keep to their 
prescribed diets.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Renvela, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Renvela work? 
The active substance in Renvela, sevelamer carbonate, is a phosphate binder. When taken with meals, 
it attaches in the gut to phosphate from food, thereby preventing the phosphate from being absorbed 
into the body and helping reduce phosphate levels in the blood. 
What benefits of Renvela have been shown in studies? 
Renvela has been shown in studies to be effective at lowering levels of blood phosphate in patients 
with hyperphosphataemia. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
In two main studies in 110 adults with kidney disease who were on dialysis, Renvela brought 
phosphate levels down to around 1.5-1.6 mmol/l (which is within or close to the normal range) and 
was as effective as another authorised medicine Renagel.  
In a third main study in 49 adults who were not on dialysis, Renvela reduced phosphate levels from 
2.0 mmol/l to 1.6 mmol/l. 
Finally, a main study also showed that Renvela was effective at lowering phosphate levels in 100 
children: children who took Renvela had a greater reduction in phosphorous (0.87 mg/dl) than those 
taking placebo (a dummy treatment) who had a rise in phosphorous of 0.04 mg/dl. 
What are the risks associated with Renvela? 
The most common side effects with Renvela (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea 
(feeling sick), vomiting, upper abdominal (belly) pain and constipation. For the full list of side effects 
with Renvela, see the package leaflet. 
Renvela must not be used in people with low blood phosphate levels or with bowel obstruction (a 
blockage in the gut). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Renvela authorised in the EU? 
Studies show that Renvela is effective at reducing levels of blood phosphate in patients with 
hyperphosphataemia, and its side effects are considered manageable. The European Medicines Agency 
therefore concluded that Renvela’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Renvela? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Renvela have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Renvela are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Renvela are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Renvela 
Renvela received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 10 June 2009. 
Further information on Renvela can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/renvela.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2019.  
Renvela (sevelamer carbonate)  
EMA/357790/2019  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
