20 October 2011 
EMA/9712/2012  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP)  
Assessment report 
Repaglinide Accord 
International nonproprietary name: Repaglinide  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002318 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
Information on paediatric requirements ....................................................................... 4 
Scientific advice ....................................................................................................... 5 
Licensing status ....................................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 6 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 8 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 12 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 13 
4. Recommendation................................................................................... 13 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 2/14
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
CHMP  Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
EMA 
European Medicines Agency 
ERA  
Environmental Risk Assessment 
MA 
Marketing Authorisation 
MAH  Marketing Authorisation Holder 
PL 
Package Leaflet 
PSUR  Periodic Safety Update Report 
RMP 
Risk Management Plan 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 3/14
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare Limited submitted on 18 November 2010 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Repaglinide Accord, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 
21 April 2010. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC .  
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
Repaglinide  is  indicated  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  (Non  Insulin-Dependent  Diabetes  Mellitus 
(NIDDM))  whose  hyperglycaemia  can  no  longer  be  controlled  satisfactorily  by  diet,  weight  reduction 
and  exercise.  Repaglinide  is  also  indicated  in  combination  with  metformin  in  type  2  diabetes  patients 
who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone.  
Treatment should be initiated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to lower the blood glucose in relation 
to meals. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product NovoNorm.  
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: NovoNorm 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg Tablets     
Marketing authorisation holder:  Novo Nordisk A/S, Denmark     
Date of authorisation: 17 August 1998     
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/076   
■  
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made 
or European reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:  NovoNorm 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg Tablets    
Marketing authorisation holder: Novo Nordisk A/S, Denmark       
Date of authorisation: 17 August 1998   
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 4/14
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/076  
■  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Prandin 2 mg Tablets   
Marketing authorisation holder: Novo Nordisk A/S, Denmark 
Date of authorisation: 29 January 2001  
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/00/162/016 
Bioavailability study number(s):336-09 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Prof. Dr. J. Borvendég 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 25 November 2010.  
The procedure started on 15 December 2010. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 04 March 
2011. 
During the meeting on 11 – 14 April 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 14 April 2011 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 04 
August 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 29 September 2011  
The Rapporteur circulated an amended Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
List of Questions to all CHMP members on 14 October 2011 
During the meeting on 17-20 October 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Repaglinide Accord on 20 October 2011. 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 5/14
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Repaglinide Accord 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg tablets is a generic medicinal product containing 
repaglinide as the active substance. 
Repaglinide is a meglitinide antidiabetic used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes (Non Insulin-
Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (NIDDM)). Repaglinide lowers blood glucose levels by stimulation of 
insulin production from the pancreas. It has a chemical structure which is different from the 
sulfonylureas, but has a similar mode of action. 
The efficacy and safety of repaglinide has been demonstrated in several well-controlled studies, with 
sulphonylureas as comparators. In one study the effect of adding repaglinide to metformin was 
investigated. A summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of the reference medicinal product 
NovoNorm. 
The indication proposed for Repaglinide Accord is the same as the authorised indication for the 
reference medicinal product. 
In  addition  to  the  presentations  authorised  for  reference  medicinal  product,  the  applicant  has  added 
the 100 tablet pack size. The proposed pack sizes are consistent with the dosage regimen and duration 
of use. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Repaglinide  Accord  is  presented  as  tablets  containing  0.5  mg,  1  mg  &  2  mg  of  repaglinide  as  active 
substance, like the reference product. 
Other  ingredients  are  cellulose,  microcrystalline  (E460),  calcium  hydrogen  phosphate,  anhydrous, 
maize starch, povidone, glycerine, magnesium stearate, meglumine, poloxamer 188, and iron oxide,    
The tablets are packed in Aluminium/aluminium blisters and HDPE bottles. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
The active substance is repaglinide a well known active substance described in Ph. Eur. (monograph n° 
2135).  Its  chemical  name  is  (+)-2-Ethoxy-a-[[(S)-cx-isobutyl-o-piperidinobenzyl]carbamoyl]-p-toluic 
acid. It is a white or almost white powder, practically insoluble in water, but freely soluble in organic 
solvents like methanol and methylene chloride. Repaglinide has one chiral centre and is dextrorotatory.  
The manufacturer of the active substance, has been granted a Certificate of Suitability of the European 
Pharmacopoeia (CEP) for Repaglinide (R0-CEP 2008-093-Rev 00) that has been provided within the 
current Marketing Authorisation Application. Therefore no further information about the manufacture, 
characterisation and stability of the active substance has been provided. 
Manufacture 
A Certificate of Suitability (CEP) has been granted for the drug substance. The relevant information has 
been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the Certificate of Suitability. 
Specification 
The  control  tests  were  carried  out  to  comply  with  the  specifications  and  test  methods  of  the  Ph. Eur. 
monograph  n°  2135.  Additional  specifications  have  been  set  for  any  other  detectable  impurity  (other 
than  those  mentioned  in  the  monograph),  for  residual  solvents  (GC)  and  for  particle  size  distribution 
(Laser Diffraction). These additional methods have been adequately validated. 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 6/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certificates of analyses for the active substances  were provided and all batch analysis results comply 
with the specifications and show a good uniformity from batch to batch. 
Stability 
The proposed re-test period is covered by the Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia. 
2.2.3.  Medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the product development was to formulate a medicinal product essentially similar, robust, 
stable and bioequivalent to the reference medicinal product. 
After  characterisation  of  the  reference  medicinal  product  including  physical,  chemical  and  dissolution 
attributes  several  formulations  were  manufactured  and  the  physical  characteristic  and  dissolution 
profile of the produced test products were compared with the reference medicinal product. 
The development work was initiated using the same excipients as in reference product. The poor flow 
properties  of  the  active  substance  indicated  to  apply  granulation  technology.  A  trial  batch  was 
manufactured  by  wet  granulation  process.  A  number  of  modifications  were  necessary  to  achieve 
matching dissolution profile with the reference medicinal product. 
Similarity  of the  dissolution  profiles  of  the  tablets  with  the  0.5 mg,  1 mg  and  2  mg  strength  at  three 
different pHs was demonstrated. This was acceptable for granting a waiver of the lower strengths. 
According to the citation in the clinical assessment Repaglinide demonstrated pharmacokinetic linearity 
over the 0.5 - 4 mg dose range. The kinetic is linear so it is acceptable that the highest strength was 
used in the study. 
The  excipients  used  are  commonly  used  in  the  pharmaceutical  industry.  A  compatibility  study  with 
different excipients was carried out using the ratios applied in the final developed composition. Results 
of the study prove that the applied excipients are compatible with the active substance. 
Tablets are packed in: 
-  alu-alu  blisters.  Certificate  of  analysis  and  typical  IR  spectra  of  aluminium  foil  is  presented. 
Declaration  as  concerns  the  compliance  with  Ph.Eur.  requirements  and  EU  guidelines  for  materials 
planned to be used for food and drug packaging is provided. 
-  HDPE  bottle  pack  fitted  with  child  resistant  closure.  Certificates  of  analysis,  IR  spectra  and 
thermogram of HDPE and PP are provided. 
Adventitious agents 
Not applicable. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process consists of four main steps: raw material sifting, granulation, compression 
of tablets and packaging. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing process and is satisfactory. The in process controls are adequate for this product. 
The batch analysis data provided show that this tablet can be manufactured reproducibly according to 
the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 7/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product specification  
The finished product specifications include appropriate tests for appearance, identification (HPLC, UV), 
average  weight,  resistance  to  crushing  (Ph.  Eur.),  loss  of  drying,  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (HPLC), 
dissolution (HPLC), , assay (95.0% - 105.0%, HPLC), related substances, (HPLC), and microbiological 
enumeration test (Ph. Eur.).  
Batch analysis results confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process 
is under control. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies were performed on 8 batches in total. The studies were carried out in accordance with 
current ICH/CHMP guidelines and the characteristics tested were as presented in the Finished Product 
Specifications at release except identification and average weight. Stability data submitted covers long-
term up to 12 months at 25°C/60%RH, accelerated 6 months at 40°C/75% RH for the finished product 
packed  in  alu/alu  blister  and  HPDE  bottle.  In-use  stability  study  was  also  perforemed  in  the  HPDE 
bottle pack. Photostability testing according to ICH Q1B Guideline was performed and the product was 
considered photostable in the proposed packaging materials. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SmPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Repaglinide Accord manufactured by Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited and Accord 
Healthcare Limited is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales 
volumes for all repaglinide containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active 
substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 8/14
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for tablets containing repaglinide. To support the marketing authorisation 
application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with a cross-over design under fasting 
conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Exemption  
According to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1, if 
the generic medicinal product has the same manufacturer, same qualitative composition, same ratio 
between active substance and excipients, comparable in vitro dissolution profile as the reference 
product, these aspects could be used to justify an exemption from the requirement to perform 
bioequivalence studies.  
According to the “The Canadian Product Monograph of repaglinide”, repaglinide demonstrated 
pharmacokinetic linearity over the 0.5 - 4 mg dose range.   
To support this application the applicant conducted a bioequivalence study using the 2 mg dose and a 
biowaiver  was  granted  for  the  lower  strengths  based  on  the  criteria  mentioned  above  from  the 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence.   
Additionally, the applicant provided dissolution curves of the 0.5, 1 and 2 mg strength tablets. 
Dissolutions were compared to that of the 2 mg strength tablets at three different pH-s (0.1N HCl, pH= 
5 and pH= 6.8). In each case the dissolution was complete and the dissolution profiles were similar. 
There was some deviation from quantitatively proportional composition, however this condition was 
still considered fulfilled as condition i) and iii) below apply to the strength used in the bioequivalence 
study and the strength(s) for which a waiver is considered: 
i. 
the amount of the active substance(s) is less than 5 % of the tablet core weight,  
the weight of the capsule content  
ii. 
the amounts of the different core excipients or capsule content are the same for  
the concerned strengths and only the amount of active substance is changed  
iii. 
the amount of a filler is changed to account for the change in amount of active  
substance. The amounts of other core excipients or capsule content should be  the same for 
the concerned strengths 
Based on these results the CHMP concluded that a biowaiver can be granted for the lower strengths.  
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 9/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies 
A single bioequivalence study has been submitted in support of the application. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
The study presented (Lambda 336-09) was an open label, balanced, randomized, two-sequence, two-
treatment, two-period, single oral dose, crossover bioequivalence study in healthy, adult, human male 
subjects under fasting conditions. In each study period, the venous blood samples were collected pre-
dose and at 0.167, 0.333, 0.50, 0.667, 0.833, 1.00, 1.25, 1.50, 1.75, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00, 4.00, 5.00, 
6.00, 8.00, 10.00 and 12.00 hours post dose administration in each period. 
This study was sponsored by Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India). The study was 
conducted in the site of Lambda Therapeutic Research Ltd (Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India) from 21 
December 2009 to 26 December 2009. The bioanalytic facility was Lambda Therapeutic Research Ltd 
(Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India). The data analysis was performed by Lambda Therapeutic Research Ltd 
(Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India). 
The principal investigator was Dr. Pankaj Kumar Jha. 
Test and reference products  
Population(s) studied   
Seventy healthy, adult, human male volunteers between 18 to 55 years of age (both inclusive), having 
a Body Mass Index (BMI) between 18.5 to 24.9 kg / m2 (both inclusive) and having given their written 
informed consent were enrolled and dosed in the trial. Out of the dosed 70 subjects, 68 subjects 
completed the clinical phase of the study successfully. Plasma samples of all the 68 subjects were 
analysed. 
The power of the study was adequate to reach the stated goal of the study. The study population is 
acceptable.  All subjects who had adequate data were included in the statistical analysis. 
Analytical methods   
A LC/MS/MS method for quantification of repaglinide in human plasma has been developed and it has 
been fully validated.  
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 10/14
 
 
 
 
The concentrations of repaglinide in human plasma were measured using an 8-point calibration curve. 
The concentrations of the standards from 0.254ng/ml to 30.367ng/ml for repaglinide were calculated 
using linear regression analysis with a weighting factor. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
The pharmacokinetic parameters of interest in this study were AUC0-t, AUC0-inf, AUCt/inf, Cmax, 
Residual area, Tmax, Kel and T½ el. 
Statistical methods   
Descriptive statistics was computed and reported for all pharmacokinetic parameters.  An analysis of 
variance (ANOVA) was conducted on the log-transformed Cmax, AUC0-t, and AUC0-∞ parameters. The 
90% parametric confidence intervals were calculated for the ln-transformed pharmacokinetic 
parameters. Bioequivalence of the reference vs. test product was concluded if the 90% confidence 
interval fell within the 80-125% acceptance range. 
Results 
The Figure below shows the observed concentration profiles (A: reference, B: test products). 
The table below shows the relevant pharmacokinetic results. 
Safety data 
A total of four adverse events (AEs) were reported by four subjects during the conduct of the study. 
Out of these, two AEs were reported in those subjects who had received the reference product and the 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 11/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
other two AEs events were reported in subjects who had received the test product. All the AEs were 
mild in nature and were followed up till resolution.   
From this data it was concluded that both the test and reference products were well tolerated. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Repaglinide Accord is considered bioequivalent with 
Prandin. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
One bioequivalence study was provided for Repaglinide Accord application. The bioequivalence study 
and statistical evaluation were in accordance with accepted standards for bioequivalence testing, as 
stated in the Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98). The parameters used to establish bioavailability included the area under 
the plasma concentration-time curve and the maximal plasma concentration of the parameter 
compound of repaglinide. Bioequivalence has been established as the calculated 90% confidence 
intervals for In-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax fell within the acceptance range of 80-125% for the 
parent drug repaglinide as required by the above mentioned guideline. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The applicant has documented bioequivalence between Prandin and Repaglinide Accord and therefore, 
a similar safety and efficacy profile to the reference medicinal product can be assumed. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk management plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because the application is 
based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring additional risk 
minimisation activities have been identified. 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 12/14
 
 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product, which 
currently is on a 3-yearly cycle. The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 
31 December 2011. 
User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package 
leaflet has been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable since the package leaflet of 
this generic application is identical to the reference product except for the product name.  
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a generic version of repaglinide tablets. The reference product is indicated for 
the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes (Non Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (NIDDM)) 
whose hyperglycaemia can no longer be controlled satisfactorily by diet, weight reduction and exercise. 
It is also indicated in combination with metformin in type 2 diabetes patients who are not satisfactorily 
controlled on metformin alone. Treatment should be initiated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to 
lower the blood glucose in relation to meals. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a cross-over design under fasting conditions. The 
study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in 
line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling 
times as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. 
Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Repaglinide Accord met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with Prandin. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters 
AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80 to 125%. 
Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk balance comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers that the benefit-
risk balance of Repaglinide Accord in the treatment of in patients with type 2 diabetes (Non Insulin-
Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (NIDDM)) whose hyperglycaemia can no longer be controlled satisfactorily 
by diet, weight reduction and exercise. Repaglinide is also indicated in combination with metformin in 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 13/14
 
 
 
type 2 diabetes patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone. Treatment should be 
initiated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to lower the blood glucose in relation to meals, is 
favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Repaglinide Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/9712/2012  
Page 14/14
 
 
 
 
