PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
A summary of the RMP for evolocumab is presented below. 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Repatha (Evolocumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Repatha.  The RMP details 
important risks of Repatha, how these risks can be minimized, and how more 
information will be obtained about Repatha's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Repatha's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Repatha should 
be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Repatha should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all of which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Repatha's RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used for 
Repatha is authorized for homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia, and established atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease (see SmPC for the full indication).  It contains evolocumab as the 
active substance and it is given by subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Repatha’s benefits can be found in 
Repatha’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/Repatha. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or further 
characterize the risks  
Important risks of Repatha, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Repatha's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the public (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) 
assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary.  These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Repatha is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A.  List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Repatha are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered.  Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks 
are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Repatha.  
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is 
possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the 
long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
None 
None 
Missing information 
  Use in pregnant/lactating women 
  Long-term use including effects of low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol  40 mg/dL ( 1.03 mmol/L) 
II.B.  Summary of Important Risks 
Missing information:  Use in pregnant/lactating women 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
  SmPC Section 4.6, where advice is given that Repatha should 
not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of 
the woman requires treatment with evolocumab 
  PL Section 2 
Additional risk minimization measures:   
  None 
Missing information:  Long-term use including effects of low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol  40 mg/dL or  1.03 mmol/L 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
  Section 5 
Additional risk minimization measures:   
  None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
  Study 20130295 
  Study 20160250 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
postauthorization development plan. 
II.C.  Postauthorization Development Plan 
II.C.1.  Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Repatha. 
II.C.2  Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
Study Short Name 
Purpose of the Study 
Study 20130295 
Study 20160250 
To characterize the safety and tolerability of extended long-term 
administration of evolocumab in subjects having received 
evolocumab or placebo in the completed FOURIER trial 
Safety concerns addressed:  Long-term use including effects of 
LDL-C  40 mg/dL or  1.03 mmol/L 
To describe the safety and tolerability of long-term administration of 
evolocumab in a cohort of Western European subjects having 
received evolocumab or placebo in the completed FOURIER trial 
Safety concerns addressed:  Long-term use including effects of 
LDL-C  40 mg/dL or  1.03 mmol/L 
 
 
