European Medicines Agency  
Repaglinide Teva 
repaglinide 
EPAR summary for the public 
EMEA/H/C/ 1067 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis of the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also part 
of the EPAR). 
What is Repaglinide Teva? 
Repaglinide Teva is a medicine that contains the active substance repaglinide. It is available as round 
tablets (blue: 0.5 mg; yellow: 1 mg; peach: 2 mg). 
Repaglinide Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Repaglinide Teva is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called NovoNorm. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Repaglinide Teva used for? 
Repaglinide Teva is used in patients who have type 2 diabetes (non-insulin-dependent diabetes). It is 
used together with diet and exercise to lower blood glucose (sugar) levels in patients whose 
hyperglycaemia (high blood glucose levels) cannot be controlled by diet, weight reduction and 
exercise. Repaglinide Teva may also be used with metformin (another anti-diabetes medicine) in 
type 2 diabetes patients whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin 
alone. 
How is Repaglinide Teva used? 
Repaglinide Teva is taken before meals, normally up to 15 minutes before each main meal. The dose 
is adjusted to give the best control. A doctor should regularly test the patient’s blood glucose to find 
the lowest effective dose. Repaglinide Teva can also be used for type 2 diabetes patients whose blood 
glucose  levels  are  usually  controlled  well  on  diet,  but  are  experiencing  temporary  loss  of  blood 
glucose control. 
The recommended starting dose is 0.5 mg. This dose may need to be increased after one or two weeks. 
If  patients  are  transferred  from  another  anti-diabetes  medicine,  the  recommended  starting  dose  is 
1 mg. 
How does Repaglinide Teva work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Repaglinide Teva helps the 
pancreas to produce more insulin at mealtimes and is used to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Repaglinide Teva been studied? 
Because Repaglinide Teva is a generic medicine, studies have been limited to tests to determine that it 
is bioequivalent to the reference medicine (this means that the two medicines produce the same levels 
of the active substance in the body). 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What are the benefit and risk of Repaglinide Teva?   
Because Repaglinide Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicine. 
Why has Repaglinide Teva been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance with 
EU requirements, Repaglinide Teva has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to NovoNorm. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for NovoNorm, the benefit 
outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Repaglinide Teva be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Other information about Repaglinide Teva: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Repaglinide Teva to Teva Pharma B.V. on 29 June 2009. 
The full EPAR for Repaglinide Teva can be found here. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2009. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
