European Medicines Agency  
Repaglinide Krka 
repaglinide 
EPAR summary for the public 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/634501/2009 
EMEA/H/C/1066 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis for the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also 
part of the EPAR). 
What is Repaglinide Krka? 
Repaglinide Krka is a medicine that contains the active substance repaglinide. It is available as round 
tablets (white: 0.5 mg; yellow: 1 mg; pink: 2 mg). 
Repaglinide Krka is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Repaglinide Krka is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called NovoNorm. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Repaglinide Krka used for? 
Repaglinide Krka is used in patients who have type 2 diabetes (non-insulin-dependent diabetes). It is 
used together with diet and exercise to lower blood glucose (sugar) levels in patients whose 
hyperglycaemia (high blood glucose levels) cannot be controlled by diet, weight reduction and 
exercise.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Repaglinide Krka used? 
Repaglinide Krka is taken before meals, normally up to 15 minutes before each main meal. The dose 
is adjusted to give the best control. A doctor should regularly test the patient’s blood glucose to find 
the lowest effective dose. Repaglinide Krka can also be used for type 2 diabetes patients whose blood 
glucose levels are usually controlled well on diet, but are experiencing temporary loss of blood 
glucose control. 
The recommended starting dose is 0.5 mg. This dose may need to be increased after one or two weeks. 
If patients are transferred from another anti-diabetes medicine, the recommended starting dose is 
1 mg. 
Repaglinide Krka is not recommended for patients below 18 years of age because of a lack of 
information on safety and effectiveness in this age group. 
How does Repaglinide Krka work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Repaglinide Krka helps the 
pancreas to produce more insulin at mealtimes and is used to control type 2 diabetes. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How has Repaglinide Krka been studied? 
Because Repaglinide Krka is a generic medicine, studies have been limited to tests to determine that it 
is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, NovoNorm. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefit and risk of Repaglinide Krka? 
Because Repaglinide Krka is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicine. 
Why has Repaglinide Krka been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance with 
EU requirements, Repaglinide Krka has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to NovoNorm. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for NovoNorm, the benefit 
outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Repaglinide Krka be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Other information about Repaglinide Krka: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Repaglinide Krka to Krka, d.d., Novo mesto on 4 November 2009.  
The full EPAR for Repaglinide Krka can be found here. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2009. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
