European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref: EMEA/583070/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Repaglinide Teva 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Repaglinide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001067 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 7 
Clinical Aspects ....................................................................................................................... 7 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 10 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ...................................... 10 
2/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  submitted  on  03  September  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Repaglinide Teva, in accordance with 
the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  under 
Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(1)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC  and  refers  to  a  reference  product  for  which  a  Marketing  Authorisation  is  or  has  been 
granted  in  the  Community  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  Article  8(3)  of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131) Product name, strength(s), pharmaceutical form(s): NovoNorm 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg, Tablets  
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation holder: NovoNordisk A/S  
(cid:131) Date of authorisation : 1998-08-17 
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation granted by: EU registration 
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/076/004-7, EU/1/98/076/011-14,  EU/1/98/076/018-24  
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength(s), pharmaceutical form(s): NovoNorm, 2 mg, Tablet 
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation holder4: Novo Nordisk A/S 
(cid:131) Date of authorisation: 1998-08-17 
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation(s) granted by: EU registration 
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/076/018-22   
(cid:131) Member State of source: Germany 
(cid:131) Bioavailability study(ies) reference number(s)/EudraCT number(s): 2007-1438 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation team was: Prof. Dr. János Borvendég 
Scientific Advise: 
The Applicant did not seek Scientific Advice at the CHMP. 
3/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Licensing status: 
Repaglinide Armstrong has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Argentina on April 2000. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 03 September 2008.  
The procedure started on 24 September 2008. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  11 
December 2008 (Annex 1).  
During  the  meeting  on  19-22  January  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on  22 January 2009 (Annex 2). 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  19 
February 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  31 March 2009 (Annex 3).  
The applicant submitted additional minor clarifications on 06 April 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  a  revised  Assessment  Report  to  all  CHMP  members  on  15  April 
2009 (Annex 4).  
During the meeting on 20-23 April 2009 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Repaglinide Teva on 23 April 2009.  
4/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Repaglinide Teva 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg tablets is a generic medicinal product containing repaglinide 
as the active substance. 
Repaglinide  is  a  meglitinide  antidiabetic  used  for  the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  (Non  Insulin-
Dependent  Diabetes  Mellitus  (NIDDM)).  Repaglinide  lowers  blood  glucose  levels  by  stimulation  of 
insulin  production  from  the  pancreas.  It  has  a  chemical  structure  which  is  different  from  the 
sulfonylureas, but has a similar mode of action. 
The efficacy and safety of repaglinide has been demonstrated in several well-controlled studies, with 
sulphonylureas as comparators. In one study the effect of adding repaglinide to metformin was 
investigated. A summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of the reference product 
NovoNorm. 
The indication proposed for Repaglinide Teva is the same as the authorised indication for the 
reference medicinal product. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Composition 
Repaglinide Teva is presented as capsule-shaped immediate release tablets, containing 0.5, 1.0 
and 2.0 mg of repaglinide as the active substance. 
Other ingredients include anhydrous calcium hydrogen phosphate, microcrystalline cellulose, 
pre-gelatinised  starch,  povidone,  colloidal  anhydrous  silica,  magnesium  stearate,  poloxamer  188, 
meglumine, polacrilin potassium and ferric oxide colorants.. 
The tablets are packaged in Alu-Alu blister packs. 
Active Substance 
n° 
2135). 
The  active  substance  is  repaglinide  a  well  known  active  substance  described  in  Ph.  Eur 
(monograph 
(+)-2-Ethoxy-a-[[(S)-α-isobutyl-o-
name 
piperidinobenzyl]carbamoyl]-p-toluic acid. It is a white or almost white powder, practically insoluble 
in water, but freely soluble in organic solvents like methanol and methylene chloride. Repaglinide has 
one  chiral  centre  and  is  dextrorotatory.  The  chemical  structure  repaglinide  has  been  confirmed  with 
IR, UV, 1H NMR and mass spectroscopic studies. 
chemical 
Its 
is 
• 
Specification 
The active substance is analysed according to the Pharm. Eur. monograph.  
Batch  analysis  data  from  3  batches  used  in  the  manufacturing  of  the  biobatch  and  other  pilot 
batches have been provided. The results demonstrated compliance to the Pharm. Eur. monograph and 
the additional specifications. 
•  Stability 
The active substance has a retest period of 2 years when the active substance is stored in a triple low-
density polyethylene bag placed inside a high-density polyethylene container. 
No additional stability data have been presented. 
5/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to obtain immediate-release tablets containing 
qualitatively  and  quantitatively  the  same  active  substance  and  exhibiting  the  same  bioavailability  as 
the  already  marketed  reference  product  NovoNorm®  tablets  marketed  by  Novo  Nordisk,  in  order  to 
comply with the regulations pertaining to abridged applications in the European Union. 
 The qualitative composition for Repaglinide Teva and the EU reference product is similar 
A common manufacturing process was developed for all strengths.  
The  bioequivalence  study  was  performed  using  Repaglinide  2  mg  tablets,  (pilot)  versus 
NovoNorm® 2mg tablets,. Given that: 
o  The pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process  
o  The drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic dose range (from 0.125 to 
20mg). 
o  The qualitative composition of the strengths is the same and the quantitative formula is also 
essentially similar. 
o  The ratio between amounts of active substance and excipients is similar.  
o  The dissolution profile for the 0.5, 1.0  and 2.0 mg strengths is similar under identical 
conditions. 
It is acceptable to rely on the 2 mg bioequivalence study for the 0.5 mg and 1 mg strengths.  
Manufacture of the Product 
• 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  process  and  consists  of  the  following  steps:  mixing,  final 
mixing, compression and packaging.  
All critical process parameters have been identified and controlled by appropriate in process controls. 
The  validation  report  from  3  production  scale  batches  demonstrates  that  the  process  is  reproducible 
and provides a product that complies with the in-process and finished product specifications.  
• 
Product Specification 
The finished product specification includes tests for description, appearance, identification, 
assay (HPLC), dissolution, content uniformity (Ph. Eur.), friability (Ph. Eur.), thickness, resistance to 
crushing (Ph. Eur.), impurities and degradation products (HPLC), microbial count, water content and 
colour identification. 
Batch analysis data from 3 production scale batches for each strength have been presented. All 
batches met the test limits as defined in the release specification and test methodology valid at the time 
of batch release. The batch analyses data together with the results obtained from the stability testing 
confirm consistency and uniformity of the product and indicate the reproducibility of the 
manufacturing process. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Data  from  stability  studies  on  three  production  scale  batches  for  each  strength  have  been 
provided. Samples were stored  for up to 24 months at long term conditions (25°C/60% RH) and for 6 
months at accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH) in accordance with ICH requirements.  All batches 
have  been  tested  for  physical  and  technological  (appearance,  colour,  dissolution),  chemical  (assay, 
degradation products) and microbiological parameters using stability indicating methods.  In all cases 
the  parameters  tested  remained  within  the  proposed  specifications  and  no  significant  trends  were 
observed.  
The results of photostability studies show that the finished product is sensitive to light and that 
the  aluminium  blister  packaging  provides  adequate  protection  against  the  light  influence.  For  this 
reason a warning to keep the product in the original packaging in order to protect from light has been 
added in the carton, PIL and SmPC. 
As a conclusion the proposed shelf-life of 2 years (store in the original packaging in order to protect 
from light) has been sufficiently supported by the stability studies performed. 
6/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The quality of Repaglinide Teva is adequately established. In general, satisfactory chemical and 
pharmaceutical documentation has been submitted for marketing authorization. There are no major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The active substance is well known and has is described in a Ph. Eur. monograph. The quality of the 
active  substance  is  regarded  to  be  suitable  for  the  intended  use  and  appropriately  controlled  by  the 
applicant. The excipients are commonly used in these types of formulations and comply with Ph. Eur. 
requirements. The packaging material is commonly used and well documented. Stability tests indicate 
that the product under ICH guidelines conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
In  comparison  with  the  EU  reference  product  Repaglinide  Teva  has  been  shown  to  have  the  same 
qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  in  terms  of  the  active  substance.  The  excipients  used  are 
mostly  the  same.  Both  the  EU  reference  product  and  Repaglinide  Teva  exhibit  similar  dissolution 
profiles. 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
No further studies are required and the applicant has justified why no such data was provided. 
No ERA has been submitted and the applicant has presented a justification. The introduction of 
Repaglinide Teva is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all 
repaglinide containing products. The risk of an environmental impact from the use of Repaglinide 
Teva is of no concern.  
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of a bioequivalence study.  
GCP  
The submitted bioequivalence study complied with GCP as claimed by the applicant.    
The clinical and bioanalytical parts of the study have been conducted by CROs in Canada..   
The  applicant  has  clarified  that  the  clinical  investigational  site  has  been  inspected  by  Regulatory 
Agencies, the sponsor fulfilled its quality control obligations to oversee the bioequivalence trial.    
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study, study 2007-1438.   
Pharmacokinetics  
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
Study 2007-1438 is an open-label, single-dose, randomized, two-period, two-sequence, two-treatment, 
crossover  study,  designed  to  evaluate  the  comparative  bioavailability  of  two  formulations  of 
repaglinide 2 mg tablets administered to healthy male and female subjects under fasting conditions. 
Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  one  of  the  two  dosing  sequences  AB  or  BA  under  fasting 
conditions.  Concentrations  of  repaglinide  were  measured  from  samples  collected  over  a  12-hour 
interval after dosing in each period. 
7/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During each study period, blood samples were collected prior to drug administration and at the times 
specified in the protocol following drug administration 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
Repaglinide 2mg Tablets by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd has been compared to NovoNorm® 
2mg (sourced from DE) 
The  reference  product  can  be  accepted  as  European  reference  product.  The  batch  size  of  the  test 
product is in line with requirements of the CHMP Note for Guidance on Bioequivalence. 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
Diagnosis and main criteria for inclusion: 
The study population included non-smoking, male and female volunteers between 18-55 years of age 
(inclusive) with a BMI between 19 and 30 (inclusive), who were judged to be healthy based on a 
medical examination.  
Number of subjects (planned and analysed): 
•  Seventy (70) subjects were dosed in Period 1. 
•  Sixty-six (66) subjects completed the study and are included in the analysis. 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
The analytical validation and the analytical report were missing in the initial application and the 
Applicant was requested to submit these data. The full Analytical Report for the Bioequivalence study 
was provided in the applicant`s response to the Day120 CHMP LOQ.  
The  submitted  analytical  report  describes  an  HPLC-MS-MS  method  for  the  determination  of 
repaglinide  in  human  plasma.  The  method  was  validated  by  the  bioanalytical  division  of  the  CRO 
which  is  a  well-known  investigational  site.    The  CRO  validated  the  method  according  to  FDA 
bioanalytical  method  validation  guideline  which  is  currently  the  industry  standard  guideline.  Long-
term  stability  of  the  clinical  samples  has  been  demonstrated  for  more  than  100  days  which  greatly 
exceeds the actual storage period of the clinical samples (57 days).  
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
Pharmacokinetic parameters: AUCt, AUCinf, Cmax, Tmax, Kel and T1/2 were estimated based on plasma 
repaglinide levels. 
The calculation of the original pharmacokinetic parameters was conducted with AS. In order to verify 
the values obtained, the calculation of the same pharmacokinetic parameters was repeated using Excel 
and WinNonLin software. The results of the second approach confirmed the original values. 
Criteria for Evaluation: 
Based  on  the  log-transformed  parameters  the  following  criteria  were  used  to  evaluate  the 
bioequivalence between the test and reference products: 
•  The 90% confidence intervals of the relative mean plasma repaglinide AUCt, AUCinf and Cmax of 
the test to reference products should be between 80% and 125%. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
Descriptive  statistics  were  calculated  by  treatments  for  the  estimated  pharmacokinetic  parameters. 
Analysis  of  Variance  (ANOVA)  was  also  carried  out  on  the  natural  log-transformed  AUCt,  AUCinf, 
Cmax,  Tmax,  Kel  and  T1/2  data.  Values  for  the  Tmax  parameter  were  analyzed  by  a  non-parametric 
approach. The following results are included: 
Geometric and arithmetic means of AUCs and Cmax for the test product and reference product. 
•  Ratios of geometric means of the test product versus the reference product for AUCs and 
Cmax. 
8/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  90% confidence intervals of the above ratios. 
The statistics described were adequate and the methods acceptable. 
• 
Results 
Pharmacokinetics: 
The pharmacokinetic results are presented in table 1 and Figure 1and 2 below: 
Table 1. PK results for analyte: repaglinide (N=66) 
Based  on  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  repaglinide,  the  reference  and  test  are  considered 
bioequivalent  with  respect  to  the  extent  and  rate  of  absorption  for  the  2  mg  tablet.  The  90% 
confidence  intervals  calculated  for  AUC(0-t),  AUC(0-inf)  and  Cmax  of  repaglinide    are  within  the 
range of acceptability  0.8-1.25. 
The Applicant submitted comparative dissolution curves of the different strengths at pH 6.8.  
The  formula  of  the  0.5  and  1  mg  tablets  fulfils  the  conditions  for  exemption  of  a  biostudy.  In 
accordance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, section 5.1 an exemption for the lower strengths was agreed because: 
the kinetic is dose-proportional 
• 
•  dissolution is very fast at 3 substantially different pH values (more than 85% of each strength 
dissolve in less than 15 minutes at pH 2, 5 and 6.8 respectively) 
the composition of tablets of different strengths is essentially the same 
there is one single manufacturer   
• 
• 
Therefore the Applicant’s request for biowaver is justified according to the Note for Guidance on the 
Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  MP/EWP/QWP/1401/98,  and  separate 
bioequivalence studies  for the 0,5 and  1  mg strengths are  not needed. 
Safety 
No serious AEs were reported during the conduct of this study. 
9/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
None of the AEs had a significant impact on the safety of the subjects or on the integrity of the study 
results. 
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Repaglinide Teva is considered bioequivalent with 
NovoNorm. 
The results of study 2007-1438 with the 2 mg formulation can be extrapolated to other strengths 
0.5mg and 1mg, according to conditions in the Note for Guidance on the Investigation of 
Bioavailability and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule for Repaglinide Teva should follow the PSUR submission schedule 
for the reference medicinal product. 
(cid:131)  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before 
the product is placed on the market. 
(cid:131)  Risk Management Plan 
No  description  of  Risk  Management  plan  has  been  provided  by  the  applicant.  Since  the  application 
concerns  a  generic  with  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring 
additional risk management activities have been identified this approach is considered acceptable. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The application contains adequate quality, non clinical and clinical information and the bioequivalence 
has been shown. A benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
10/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered that the benefit/risk ratio of 
Repaglinide Teva in the treatment of: 
-“Patients with type 2 diabetes (Non Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (NIDDM)) whose 
hyperglycaemia can no longer be controlled satisfactorily by diet, weight reduction and 
exercise. Repaglinide is also indicated in combination with metformin in type 2 diabetes 
patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone. Treatment should be 
initiated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to lower the blood glucose in relation to meals”.”   
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
11/11 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
