15 December 2016 
EMA/140771/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation 
Repatha 
International non-proprietary name: evolocumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003766/X/0002 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product .................................................................................. 9 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects.............................. 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 15 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 15 
2.4.3. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 17 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 17 
2.5.1. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................... 18 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 18 
2.6.1. Conclusions on the clinical safety ...................................................................... 21 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 21 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 22 
2.9. Product information ............................................................................................ 22 
2.9.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 22 
2.9.2. Additional monitoring ....................................................................................... 23 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 23 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 24 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 2/25 
 
 
 
  
  
List of abbreviations 
AE adverse event 
AI/pen prefilled autoinjector/pen 
AMD automated mini doser (formerly referred to as LVI [larger volume injector] and 3.5 mL personal injector) 
ApoA1 apolipoprotein A1 
ApoB apolipoprotein B 
ApoB Apolipoprotein B 
AUC Area under the curve 
AUC area under the concentration time curve 
AUCinf area under the concentration-time curve from time 0 to infinity 
AUClast area under the concentration time curve from time 0 to the last quantifiable concentration 
AUCx-y area under the concentration-time curve from time x to time y 
AUECx-y area under the effect curve from time x to time y 
BA bioavailability 
BE bioequivalence 
CAS completer analysis set 
CHD coronary heart disease 
CHMP Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
CHO Chinese Hamster Ovary 
CI confidence interval 
CK creatine kinase 
CL clearance 
CL/F estimated mean apparent clearance 
Cmax Maximum concentration 
Cmax maximum concentration 
CMC Chemistry, Manufacturing, and Controls 
CrCL creatinine clearance 
CTCAE Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
EC50 area under the concentration-time curve from week 8 to week 12 required to achieve half-maximal 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 3/25 
 
  
  
response 
Eff effect magnitude 
ELISA Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
ELISA enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
EPD Embryo-foetal and Postnatal Development 
EvoMab evolocumab (AMG 145) 
F bioavailability 
FAS full analysis set 
FcRn neonatal Fc receptor 
FH familial hypercholesterolemia 
GLP Good Laboratory Practice 
GOF Gain of Function 
HDL C high density lipoprotein cholesterol 
HDL-c High Density Lipoprotein cholesterol 
IDL C intermediate density lipoprotein cholesterol 
IP investigational product 
IV Intravenous 
IV intravenous(ly) 
Ka absorption rate constant 
Km concentration of half maximal nonlinear clearance 
LDL C low density lipoprotein cholesterol 
LDL low density lipoprotein 
LDL-c High Density Lipoprotein cholesterol 
LDLR High Density Lipoprotein receptor 
LDLR low density lipoprotein receptor 
LLOQ lower limit of quantification 
LOF Loss of Function 
LOF loss of function 
Lp(a) lipoprotein(a) 
LS least squares 
mAb Monoclonal antibody 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 4/25 
  
  
non HDL C non high density lipoprotein cholesterol 
OLE open label extension 
PCSK9 proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 
PD pharmacodynamic(s) 
PFS prefilled syringe 
PK / PD Pharmacokinetics / Pharmacodynamics 
PK pharmacokinetic(s) 
Q2W Once every two weeks 
QD once daily 
QM Once monthly 
QTcF QT interval using Fridericia’s correction 
QW Once weekly 
RBC red blood cells 
RES reticuloendothelial system 
SC Subcutaneous 
SD standard deviation 
SE standard error 
SoC standard of care 
SOC system organ class 
Statin hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitor 
TC total cholesterol 
TCR Tissue Cross Reactivity 
TDAR T-cell dependent antibody response 
TG Triglycerides 
Tmax Time at maximum concentration 
tmax time to maximum concentration 
ULN upper limit of normal 
VLDL C very low density lipoprotein cholesterol 
VLDL-c Very low density lipoprotein cholesterol 
VLDLR Very low density lipoprotein receptor 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 5/25 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) Amgen Europe B.V. submitted on 8 October 2015 an extension of the 
Marketing Authorisation.  
The MAH applied for the addition a new strength of 420 mg solution for injection in cartridge, for subcutaneous 
administration by an automated mini-doser device.  
Repatha is approved in the following indications: 
Hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and non familial) or 
mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
• 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid lowering therapies in patients unable to reach LDL 
C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin or, 
• 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-intolerant, or for 
whom a statin is contraindicated. 
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and over with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies.  
The effect of Repatha on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined. 
The indications for the new strength are the same.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 19 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008 and Annex I of Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008,  (2) 
point (c) - Extensions of marketing authorisations. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to the 
proposed indication. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP in relation to this line extension application. 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 6/25 
 
 
  
  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Johann Lodewijk Hillege 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 08 October 2015. 
•  The procedure started on 29 October 2015.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 22 January 2016. The 
PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 26 January 2016.  
•  During the PRAC meeting on 11 February 2016, the PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and 
Advice to CHMP.  
•  During the meeting on 25 February 2016, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent 
to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 1 March 2016. 
• 
The MAH submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 March 2016. 
•  The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions to 
all CHMP members on 2 May 2016. The PRAC Rapporteur's Assessment Report on the applicant’s 
responses to the List of Questions was circulated to all PRAC members on 3 May 2016. 
•  During the PRAC meeting on 13 May 2016, the PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice 
to CHMP.  
•  During the CHMP meeting on 26 May 2016, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  The MAH submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 17 November 2016. 
• 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions to 
all CHMP members on 7 December 2016. 
•  During the meeting on 15 December 2016, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for an extension of the marketing 
authorisation for Repatha.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
A large body of epidemiological evidence exists demonstrating a strong positive correlation and causal 
relationship between serum low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and the risk of coronary 
heart disease (CHD). Other clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis also appear linked to plasma LDL-C 
levels such as cerebrovascular disease (i.e. stroke) or peripheral vascular disease. In addition, clinical trials have 
shown that LDL lowering therapy with HMG-Co A reductase inhibitors (and possibly ezetimibe) reduces risk for 
CHD. The relationship between LDL-C levels and CHD risk is present over a broad range of LDL levels. 
Epidemiologic data indicate a continuous increasing risk from very low to “normal” and high levels of LDL-C. A 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 7/25 
 
 
  
  
list of interventions to achieve LDL-C control in patients with elevated LDL-C and with high cardiovascular risk 
are available, such as statins and other lipid-lowering therapies. Often however these are not sufficiently 
effective or their use is limited by toxicity. There is an undisputed medical need for new effective and well 
tolerated treatments of lipid disorders. The primary goal of treating lipid disorders is to prevent cardiovascular 
morbidity and mortality associated with disturbed lipid levels and ideally this effect should be demonstrated 
pre-approval. Nevertheless, for medicinal products acting on LDL-C, at least a detrimental effect on mortality 
and morbidity should be excluded prior to registration. Until relevant clinical trial data are available, it is 
specifically mentioned in Section 4.1 of the SmPC that beneficial effects on mortality and morbidity have not 
been evaluated. 
Recycling of the hepatic cell surface LDLR plays a critical role in the maintenance of cellular and whole body 
cholesterol balance by regulating plasma LDL-C levels. It has been shown that PCSK9 plays an important role in 
the recycling and regulation of LDLR (Horton et al, 2007; Brown and Goldstein, 2006). PCSK9 is a member of 
the subtilisin family of serine proteases and is expressed predominantly in the liver, kidney, and intestine 
(Zaid et al, 2008). Following secretion, it causes post-translational decrease in the expression of hepatic cell 
surface LDLR by binding it and targeting the LDLR for lysosomal destruction. The reduction in hepatic LDLR leads 
to increased levels of circulating LDL-C. Thus, PCSK9 may represent a target for inhibition by novel therapeutics 
in the indications of (1) primary hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and nonfamilial) and mixed dyslipidemia 
and (2) HoFH.  
Evolocumab is a first in class fully human monoclonal immunoglobulin G2 directed against human proprotein 
convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9). Evolocumab binds selectively to PCSK9 and inhibits circulating 
PCSK9 from binding to the LDLR on the liver cell surface, thus preventing PCSK9-mediated LDLR degradation. 
The inhibition of PCSK9 by evolocumab leads to increased LDLR expression and subsequent decreased 
circulating concentrations of LDL-C. In addition to LDL-C, inhibition of PCSK9 by evolocumab was also suggested 
to reduce total cholesterol, apolipoprotein B (ApoB), non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), 
very-low density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C), triglycerides and lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]), total cholesterol/HDL 
C, ApoB/apolipoprotein A1 (ApoA1), and increase HDL-C and ApoA1.  
The following two indications of Repatha are currently authorised in the European Union (from 17 July 2015): 
Hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and non-familial) or 
mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
• 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid lowering therapies in patients unable to reach 
LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin or, 
•  alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-intolerant, or for 
whom a statin is contraindicated. 
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and over with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies. 
The effect of Repatha on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined. 
Evolocumab is currently registered as prefilled syringe (PFS) or prefilled autoinjector/pen (AI/pen) intended for 
subcutaneous (SC) administration. The dose is either 140 mg every 2 weeks (Q2W) or 420 mg once monthly 
(QM).  
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 8/25 
  
  
With this line extension a new strength with a lower concentration of the active ingredient (120 mg/mL) will be 
added: a 120 mg/mL formulation supplied in a prefilled cartridge (3.5 mL= 420 mg evolocumab) assembly, 
which is co-packaged with an automated device referred to as an automated mini-doser (AMD). This new 
strength can be used to administer a dose of 420 mg with one injection instead of using 3 prefilled 
syringes/prefilled autoinjectors. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The currently approved evolocumab finished product is supplied as a 140 mg/mL formulation in a sterile, single 
use, preservative free solution for delivery by subcutaneous injection. The finished product is supplied in either 
a prefilled syringe (PFS) or a prefilled auto-injector pen (SureClick), which is a disposable, handheld, mechanical 
(spring-based) injection device that is provided ready to use and pre-assembled with the same PFS. 
This line extension concerns a 420 mg formulation supplied in a prefilled cartridge assembly, which is 
co-packaged with an automated device referred to as automated mini-doser (AMD). The prefilled cartridge 
assembly is loaded into the AMD prior to use. The AMD is a compact, sterile single use, disposable, 
electro-mechanical (battery powered, microprocessor controlled) on body injection device. The AMD is designed 
to subcutaneously administer the 3.5 ml dose in 9 minutes. 
Changes introduced with this line extension are: 
-  420 mg formulation in 3.5 mL (120 mg/mL) in addition to 140 mg in 1 mL formulation (no change to the 
excipients);  
- New automated delivery device (AMD);  
- Crystal Zenith (CZ) resin cartridge; 
- Additional finished product filling site (Patheon, Italy). 
The recommended dose of Repatha is either 140 mg every two weeks or 420 mg once monthly; both doses are 
clinically equivalent. 
Pack sizes of one cartridge/AMD or multipack of three (3x1) cartridges/AMD are proposed. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The entire Repatha CTD 3.2.S Module related to the existing presentations (EU/1/15/1016/001-005) remains 
unchanged. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical Development 
With the exception of the concentration of the active ingredient, the composition of the 420 mg formulation is 
equivalent to the approved 140 mg/mL. The prefilled cartridge contains 3.5 mL (deliverable volume) of 120 
mg/mL evolocumab in proline, acetate, polysorbate 80, and water for injection. Dose per container is 420 mg. 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 9/25 
 
  
  
Formulation development 
The rationale for lower protein concentration (120 mg/mL) compared to the approved presentations was to 
lower viscosity in order to achieving a convenient injection time. Data collected from the evolocumab glass PFS 
matrix study demonstrated robustness of the target formulation. Testing conditions for the prefilled CZ cartridge 
matrix study were determined by design of experiment methodology with limited test formulations covering only 
the high and low of the range of each of the components assessed. The parameters evaluated included pH, 
protein concentration, acetate, proline, and polysorbate 80 concentrations. At the conditions studied (2°C to 
8°C and 25°C), the formulations tested exhibited similar degradation patterns, indicating that changes in the 
components around the drug product formulation target do not have an impact on stability. 
A lower concentration of the active ingredient (120 mg/mL) was chosen for the CZ cartridge in order to lower 
viscosity and achieve a convenient injection time. 
Container closure system development 
a) Cartridge 
The primary container closure consists of a 5 mL CZ cartridge with a chlorobutyl elastomeric septum, a 
chlorobutyl elastomeric piston and a Telescopic Screw Assembly (TSA) that is threaded into the piston. The 
cartridge and septum are secured together using a cap (Figure 1).  
Figure 1: Prefilled Cartridge Assembly 
The TSA transfers rotational movement of the AMD motor into linear movement of the piston and hence 
functions like a syringe plunger rod.  
The CZ resin is a polyolefin formulation that is non-compendial since the resin contains a novel additive, 
proprietary to the manufacturer and partial hexane solubility precludes one of the polyolefine compendial tests. 
Both the septum and piston are laminated with a fluoropolymer film on the product contact surface.  
b) Automated mini-doser (AMD) (Figure 2) 
The AMD is made from polycarbonate, polybutylene terephthalate, polyxymethylene and silicone with a 
stainless steel 29 gauge needle. The administration device contains silver oxide-zinc batteries and includes an 
adhesive patch made from polyester tape with an acrylate adhesive.  
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 10/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Figure 2: Automated Minidoser (AMD) 
The prefilled cartridge is co-packaged with the AMD. The prefilled cartridge assembly is loaded into the AMD 
immediately prior to use. The AMD is designed for use only with the provided 3.5 mL prefilled cartridge. 
The safety and suitability of the primary packaging components was demonstrated, including extractable and 
biological reactivity testing. Data were also provided from extractable testing using model solvents and an 
assessment of leachables data after long-term stability. Information on the composition and properties of the 
non-compendial CZ resin was provided. 
Compatibility with the AMD was investigated by comparing product quality before and after extrusion through 
the cartridge to identify any potential impact from shear stress after extrusion. 
Furthermore a biological risk assessment of the AMD was performed to test fluid pathway and skin contacting 
components of the AMD for biocompatibility. Fluid path parts were evaluated for cytotoxicity and acute systemic 
toxicity. Additionally, the intentional skin contact parts of the AMD, including the cover, base and door, were 
evaluated for in vitro cytotoxicity, in vivo sensitisation, and in situ irritation, to applicable ISO standards.  
The prefilled cartridge maintains container closure integrity from microbial contamination over shelf life and 
after transportation, and assembly with the TSA and subsequent co-packaging with the AMD did not 
compromise the container closure integrity of the cartridge. 
Manufacturing process development 
Data on a sufficient number of batches of 120 mg/ml prefilled cartridges (CZ cartridges) have been presented.  
Prefilled cartridge (Patheon) and loaded AMD (Patheon) finished product were comparable, as demonstrated by 
the lot release, characterisation, and stressed stability data presented and therefore suitable for clinical and 
commercial use.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The 420 mg finished product manufacturing process at Patheon includes preparation of formulation buffer and 
polysorbate solution, drug substance thaw (statically or dynamically), finished product formulation, bioburden 
reduction filtration, filtered formulated finished product hold, sterile filtration, aseptic filling and piston 
placement, inspection, and storage at 2-8 °C. The formula ingredients and amounts for the formulation buffers 
and the polysorbate 80 solution buffer are provided. After mixing is complete samples are withdrawn for 
in-process testing (protein concentration, pH, osmolality, endotoxins, pre-hold bioburden). The formulated 
finished product is filtered through a 0.22 µm PVDF filter and may be stored as per a validated hold time study. 
The formulated finished product is sterile filtered through a 0.22 µm PVDF filter and filled into cartridges. 
In-process tests are in place for pre-filtration bioburden, filter integrity, deliverable volume (fill weight), piston 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 11/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
position, polysorbate 80 concentration. Acceptable ranges, where appropriate, were provided for operational 
parameters.  
The batch formula was provided. Reprocessing of any finished product formulation or filling steps is currently not 
allowed.  Appropriate procedures are in place to assure the sterility of the final product. 
The process validation of the 220 mg prefilled cartridge utilises a lifecycle approach, which involves a series of 
activities from the process design through commercial production to establish that the process is under control 
and is capable of consistently producing product that meet pre-established quality attributes. Process validation 
was performed using pre-defined acceptance criteria. Three consecutive 420 mg prefilled cartridge lots were 
produced at Patheon using 5 mL cartridges for a 3.5 mL deliverable volume. The process validation was 
performed following a batch size bracket approach, which included testing the extremes of the batch size range. 
In addition, the longest fill lot was included in the bracket to demonstrate lot homogeneity. All 420 mg prefilled 
cartridge validation data met acceptance criteria demonstrating consistency and reliability of the evolocumab 
420 mg formulation and cartridge filling processes at Patheon. 
Finished product filled in cartridge is shipped to a different, contracted facility for TSA assembly, co-packaging 
and labelling. The sterile AMD is received pre-packaged in a preformed blister tray from the device 
manufacturer. A labelled cartridge assembly is placed into the AMD blister tray and placed into the dispensing 
pack. Transport validation has demonstrated maintenance of product quality throughout shipping. 
Product specification 
The release and end-of-shelf-life specifications proposed are the same as the approved specifications for the 
Repatha PFS and auto-injector/pen presentation (except the protein concentration). Controls cover identity, 
purity, potency and other general tests. As no differences are expected, alignment of the specifications is 
accepted. It can be accepted that the small difference in concentration will not affect the outcome of the tests or 
the stability.  
Only the proposed stability specification for the cation exchange high-performance liquid chromatography 
(CEX-HPLC) Basic Peak proposed for the AMD is slightly different from the specification registered for the 
PFS/auto-injector pen.  
In addition to the release tests for the 420 mg prefilled cartridge finished product, the loaded AMD is 
gravimetrically tested for deliverable volume. 
Functionality of the AMD 
The functionality of the AMD is tested by the supplier. The accepted quality limits (AQL) of the AMD have been 
justified. It was confirmed that the viscosity of the placebo-filled cartridge used for functionality testing is 
equivalent with evolocumab 420 mg. After loading of the cartridge and activation of the AMD the 3.5 mL dose 
will be delivered within 9 minutes (±1 minute) with a continuous flowrate which is assured by the design of the 
software and the device. 
The specifications of the 420 mg AMD finished product were presented and are considered acceptable. 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 12/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Stability of the product 
Finished product stability studies were performed as per ICH Q1A and Q5C guidelines. Stability studies were 
conducted at the recommended storage condition of 5 °C to support expiry and at elevated temperatures to 
support limited room temperature storage (controlled, 25 °C or less) and to support potential temperature 
deviations during handling and transportation. The finished product is sensitive to light, but shown to be stable 
during temperature cycling studies. 
The stability program for the AMD includes additionally assessment of functionality for all lots studied. Other 
issues related to functionality of the device (injection time, buzzers, lights, leaking) are not addressed in a 
stability test. It is confirmed that the applicant is responsible for the stability studies regarding functionality of 
the device. The approach is sufficiently explained and is deemed suitable for its purpose. 
Stability data compiled to date for the 420 mg AMD include primary, validation and supporting lots. When stored 
at the recommended and accelerated storage conditions of 5 °C, 25 °C, and 30 °C the test results remain within 
the proposed stability specification acceptance criteria through the latest time points tested.  There is no 
indication that the stability is different from evolocumab filled in PFS or auto-injector/pen.  
Overall the stability data support the 24 month shelf life at 5°C. If removed from the refrigerator, Repatha may 
be stored at room temperature (up to 25°C) in the original carton and must be used within one month. 
Adventitious agents 
The information previously provided for Repatha (PFS and/or auto-injector/pen) on adventitious agents is 
applicable and considered sufficient. No material of animal origin is used in the manufacturing process of 
evolocumab. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The information provided to support this line extension is comprehensive and of appropriate quality. It provides 
an adequate description of development of the cartridge and the automated delivery device (AMD) as well as the 
manufacture and control of the finished product. Compatibility of the cartridge as well as comparability with the 
registered PFS presentation has been demonstrated.  
A Major Objection was raised during the review regarding the need for CE marking for the AMD in accordance 
with Article 1(3) of the Council Directive 93/42/EEC that states:”…If, however, such a device is placed on the 
market in such a way that the device and the medicinal product form a single integral product which is intended 
exclusively for use in the given combination and which is not reusable, that single product shall be governed by 
Directive 2001/83/EC”. Therefore, at the moment of the placing on the market, the three following cumulative 
conditions should be satisfied: 
•  The device and the medicinal product form a single integral product; 
•  Intended exclusively for use in the given combination; 
•  Which is not reusable. 
While in the present case the second condition (Intended exclusively for use in the given combination) and third 
condition (Which is not reusable) are considered satisfied, for the first condition the patient is clearly required to 
assemble the cartridge and the AMD before administration and consequently the AMD and the cartridge 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 13/25 
 
 
 
  
  
containing the medicinal product did not a form “single integral product”. Therefore the CHMP required that the 
AMD is CE marked. As a consequence, the applicant provided a CE mark for the AMD and the issue was 
considered resolved. 
With the exception of the CE mark, no other major issues were raised during initial assessment of the dossier. 
A limited number of other concerns were identified and have been satisfactorily addressed. In particular, the 
applicant provided a detailed explanation regarding the AMD how a continuous flow rate is assured by the 
software and device design as well as the routine device lot testing. A continuous flow rate has been convincingly 
shown for three AMD lots. As a consequence, CHMP agreed that an additional release test for the AMD on this 
specific aspect is not needed. 
The stability data for the AMD presentation are limited but support the claimed shelf life. 
A post approval change management protocol (PACMP) was submitted for the addition of Amgen Manufacturing 
Limited building 1 (AML-1) located in Juncos, Puerto Rico, as an alternative manufacturing facility for the 
formulation and aseptic filling of evolocumab 420 mg prefilled cartridges. AML-1 is currently approved for 
formulation and filling of evolocumab 140 mg prefilled syringes (EMEA/H/C/003766/IB/0003). The PACMP is 
acceptable and the implementing Type IB variation is awaited. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
From a quality point of view the line extension is approvable when Repatha is used in accordance with the SmPC 
and package leaflet. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new nonclinical studies were submitted with this application. This was considered acceptable. Since there is 
no overall increase in the daily dosage of evolocumab, the nonclinical studies previously submitted in the initial 
marketing authorization application are relevant to the line extension application and no further nonclinical 
studies were considered necessary. 
2.3.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No ERA have been done, which is agreed seen the nature of the product. Evolocumab is a protein composed of 
normal amino acids and readily biodegradable. Therefore it does not pose a risk for the environment. 
2.3.2.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP considered that from a non-clinical point of view the line extension for Repatha 420 mg solution for 
injection in cartridge was acceptable. 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 14/25 
  
  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
No new clinical studies were submitted to support this line extension.  
In the initial MAA evolocumab was evaluated in approximately 6800 subjects in 26 clinical studies presented 
herein representing 124 weeks of evolocumab treatment to support the two requested indications: 1) 
hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia and 2) homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. Within the 
26 studies in the evolocumab clinical program, 8 studies were primarily clinical pharmacology studies and the 
remaining 18 studies provided supportive data on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of 
evolocumab. 
The evidence supporting the lipid lowering indications for evolocumab included key data from 16 phase 2 and 
phase 3 evolocumab studies: 15 studies enrolled subjects with primary hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial 
and nonfamilial) and mixed dyslipidemia and 2 studies enrolled HoFH subjects. From these studies, one study 
enrolled severe FH subjects (both HoFH and non HoFH) and supported both indications. Two additional 
randomized, device controlled, home use studies were also conducted. 
Comparative bioavailability between different devices of administration was investigated in study 
20110168. This study was submitted within the initial MAA and showed that the 420 mg dose administered 
with the automatic minidoser (AMD) was bioequivalent with the 3 AI/pens (1 mL each, 140 mg/mL).  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Study 20110168 
This study investigated comparative bioavailability between different devices of administration. It was a phase 
1 open-label, randomized, parallel study in healthy volunteers to compare the pharmacokinetics of evolocumab 
when delivered subcutaneously (SC) via AMD (test article) versus 3 prefilled AI/pens (reference article).  
Subjects were randomized equally into 1 of 2 parallel treatments. Treatment A was a 420 mg total dose of 
evolocumab via 3 prefilled AI/pens and treatment B was a 420 mg dose of evolocumab using a single AMD. 
Subjects were followed through study day 85 for safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic 
assessments. A 12-week study period was chosen in order to characterize area under the drug 
concentration-time curve (AUC) from time 0 to the time of the last quantifiable concentration (AUClast) after a 
420 mg dose. 
Inclusion criteria for this study included, but were not limited to, healthy female subjects of non-reproductive 
potential and healthy male subjects ≥ 18 and ≤ 55 years of age who had a LDL level > 70 mg/dL and < 190 
mg/dL and body mass index between 18 and 32 kg/m2, inclusive, at the time of screening. 
A total of 265 subjects (n = 130 for the AMD and n = 135 for the AI/pen) who received a full dose of IP and had 
a pharmacokinetic parameter estimated were included in the primary pharmacokinetic analysis set. 
The purpose of the study was: 
Primary 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 15/25 
  
  
• 
to demonstrate pharmacokinetic equivalence of the 3.5 mL personal injector (also referred to as 
automated mini-doser [AMD] in this report) (test article) to 3 prefilled autoinjector/pens (AI/pens) 
(reference article)  
Secondary  
• 
• 
• 
to evaluate single-dose safety, tolerability, and additional pharmacokinetic parameters of AMG 145 
administered by 3.5 mL personal injector and 3 prefilled AI/pens  
to compare low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) responses after administration with a 3.5 mL 
personal injector and 3 AI/pens 
to assess complete delivery of 3.5 mL personal injector and 3 AI/pens. 
Table PK1 
Evolocumab pharmacokinetic parameter after s.c. administration of evolocumab at 
420 mg using an Automated Mini-doser (Test) Versus 3 Autoinjector/Pens (Reference) 
Table PK2 
Statistical evaluation of pharmacokinetic parameter of evolocumab after s.c. 
administration of evolocumab at 420 mg using an Automated Mini-doser (Test) versus 3 
Autoinjector/Pens (Reference) 
Figure PK3  Mean (SD) unbound evolocumab concentration-time curves after s.c. administration 
of 420 mg  using an Automated Mini-doser (Test) versus 3 Autoinjector/Pens (Reference) 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 16/25 
 
 
  
  
The AMD and AI/pen devices were bioequivalent based on the 90% CI for the ratio (AMD to AI/pen) for both Cmax 
and AUClast. Changes in UC LDL-C and PCSK9 indicated a similar pharmacodynamic response for each drug 
product presentation. Complete delivery of evolocumab was obtained for 93.1% of the AMDs used and 98.9% of 
the AI/pens used.  
Study 20110168 showed that the 420 mg dose administered with the AMD presentation at 120 mg/mL with a 
3.5 mL fill was pharmacokinetically equivalent to the reference presentation of 3 AI/pens (1 mL each, 140 
mg/mL).  
Although not directly compared, the pharmacokinetic comparability of a 420 mg dose administered using 3 PFS 
injections or 1 AMD injection can be also inferred from the pharmacokinetic equivalence of a single PFS or AI 
injection of evolocumab 140 mg in Study 20120133 and the pharmacokinetic equivalence of 3 AI/pen injections 
or 1 AMD injection of evolocumab 420 mg. 
2.4.3.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Comparative bioavailability between different devices of administration was investigated in study 20110168, 
assessed within the IMA procedure. This study showed that the 420 mg dose administered in currently assessed 
presentation as solution for injection in cartridge (containing 420 mg of evolocumab in 3.5 mL of 
solution [120 mg/mL]) used with automatic mini-doser (AMD) was bioequivalent with the 3 
autoinjector/pens ([AI/pens]; containing 140 mg of evolocumab in 1 mL of solution each, [140 
mg/mL]). 
The CHMP considered that the 420 mg dose administered with the new proposed presentation (solution for 
injection in cartridge used with AMD) was equivalent to the authorised reference presentation of 3 AI/pens. 
Therefore the addition of the new strength Repatha, 420 mg solution for injection in cartridge with AMD was 
considered acceptable from clinical pharmacology point of view.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
No new clinical studies were submitted to support this line extension. The efficacy of a dose of 420 mg 
evolocumab has been demonstrated during initial marketing authorisation.  
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 17/25 
 
  
  
For primary hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia in adults the recommended dose of Repatha is 
either 140 mg every two weeks or 420 mg once monthly. Both doses are clinically equivalent. For homozygous 
familial hypercholesterolaemia in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and over the initial recommended dose 
is 420 mg once monthly. After 12 weeks of treatment, dose frequency can be up-titrated to 420 mg once every 
2 weeks if a clinically meaningful response is not achieved. Patients on apheresis may initiate treatment with 
420 mg every two weeks to correspond with their apheresis schedule. 
2.5.1.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
No new clinical studies were submitted within current application. This was considered acceptable as the use of 
Repatha 420 mg dose was authorised within initial marketing authorisation (IMA) procedure for use once 
monthly or every 2 weeks. It was recommended to deliver this dose using three pre-filled syringes/pre-filled 
pens administered consecutively within 30 minutes. With current application it was agreed that this 420 mg dose 
once monthly or every 2 weeks could be also delivered using a single cartridge with automated mini-doser 
(AMD) device.  
The CHMP considered the line extension to add new strength, Repatha 420 mg solution for injection in cartridge 
with AMD, to be acceptable from clinical efficacy point of view.   
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The safety of evolocumab in the 420 mg dose has been demonstrated during initial marketing authorisation. 
An additional Clinical Device Safety Summary was submitted for the AMD presentation which summarizes 
complaints and adverse device effects as reported for 3 completed clinical trials and an ongoing clinical trial with 
a data cut-off of 01 July 2014.  The completed clinical trials to which is referred to were already assessed during 
the initial marketing authorisation application.  
Table 1: Summary of Clinical Studies with AMD Devices Used in the Evolocumab Program 
Study 
Brief Description 
Device(s) Used 
Clinical Pharmacology Studies (Phase1) 
20120135 
Drug delivery performance of the 3.5 mL personal injector 
AMD 
(AMD) using placebo buffer 
20110168 
PK/PD equivalence of AI/pen vs. AMD 
AI/pen, AMD 
Efficacy and Safety Studies for Hyperlipidemia and Mixed Dyslipidemia 
20120138 
(ongoing) 
Controlled, Long-term Study (Phase 3)  
AI/pen, AMD 
Long-term, controlled, open-label extension; AI/pen 
self-administration (OSLER-2) 
20120356 
Device Home-Use Study with Self Administration (Phase 3) 
AI/pen, AMD 
Clinical home use of evolocumab with AI/Pen vs. AMD 
Al/pen = autoinjector/pen; AMD = automated mini-doser; PD = Pharmacodynamic; PK = Pharmacokinetic. 
All studies are completed unless indicated as ongoing. The data cut-off for ongoing studies is 1 July 2014. 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 18/25 
  
  
Additionally cumulative complaints and adverse device effects data for the evolocumab 420 mg automated 
mini-doser (AMD) have been provided with a data cut-off date of 17 January 2016 (coinciding with the most 
recent PSUR data lock point). The updated data came from the only ongoing trial to use the AMD, Study 
20120138. 
Adverse events 
Device Related Adverse Events  
Data from clinical studies demonstrate that all 3 subcutaneous (SC) presentations (ie, prefilled syringe [PFS], 
autoinjector/pen [AI/pen] and automated mini-doser [AMD]) evaluated during the evolocumab clinical 
development program exhibited device related adverse events that were uncommon, mostly grade 1, 
and generally limited to injection site reactions. 
The AI/pen was used in the controlled blinded phase 3 studies. Across the controlled blinded phase 3 device 
studies, fewer than 3% of subjects reported a device related adverse event. The overall incidence of device 
related adverse events across treatment groups were 1.5% in evolocumab 140 mg Q2W; 2.8% in evolocumab 
420 mg QM, 0.8% in placebo Q2W, and 2.6% in placebo QM. The large majority of device-related adverse 
events were related to the injection site (ie, injection site bruising, injection site erythema, and injection site 
pain). Most device related adverse events were grade 1 in severity.  Furthermore, there were no serious or 
unexpected device related adverse events reported in clinical studies of evolocumab. 
In the year 1 standard of care (SoC) - controlled period, thirty seven (1.9%) subjects reported device related 
adverse events in the evolocumab plus SoC group. All 37 subjects were in the evolocumab group because 
subjects assigned to SoC alone did not receive any placebo injections. Most device related adverse events were 
grade 1 in severity.   
During the year 2+ open label extension period, 17 subjects received evolocumab via AI/pen in study 
20120138, and no device related adverse events were reported. 
Two phase 3, evolocumab clinical home-use studies (20120348 and 20120356) assessed the effective 
administration of evolocumab by subjects or caregivers in the home use setting (self-administration) using the 
3 different SC presentations (PFS, AI/pen, and AMD) and showed consistent results with the safety profile across 
the evolocumab program. 
A total of 23 new device failures were reported with a total of 3678 new injection attempts with the AMD device 
since the original submission data cut-off of 01 July 2014. This information, combined with a low number of 
device related adverse events (all non-serious and CTCAE grade 1 or grade 2 in severity), supports the safety 
profile of the AMD.  
Updated total number of complaints and device related adverse events with a data cut-off of 17 January 2016 
The updated total number of complaints and device related adverse events with a data cut-off of 17 January 
2016, derived from the ongoing extension study (20120138) was provided and indicated that there were no 
serious or unanticipated clinical effects or harms associated with the use of the AMD device.  
A total of 251 total complaint issues were reported out of a total of 4506 AMD injections (181 new complaints out 
of 3978 new device injection attempts since the previous cut-off). As described by the applicant, the total 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 19/25 
 
 
  
  
number of complaint issues represents complaints not associated with device failures, those associated with 
device failures, and those currently under further root cause investigation. 
Non-device issues  
Of the 251 AMD device complaints, 158 were non-device issues, of which the majority were associated with use 
errors. The highest percentages of errors were due to “device door not fully closed” (61 errors) and “activation 
button pressed prior to application” (21 errors). The CHMP considered 158 of non-device issues out of 4506 
device injection attempts (3.5%) relatively low and therefore acceptable. Additionally, the applicant has 
updated the Instructions for Use documentation resulting in a subsequent reduced rate of use errors 
observed in the extension Study 20120138, suggesting an even lower percentage of non-device issues in the 
future. However, these findings may be biased, since the applicant has not made a distinction between attempts 
and subsequent non-device issues observed in new or experienced users of the AMD. Furthermore, the CHMP 
considered these non-device issue of less importance compared to device failures since it was clear that in most 
of these use errors evolocumab had not been administered at all and, consequently, a new AMD device has to be 
used.  
Device failures  
Since the data cut-off date of July 2014, there has been 23 new confirmed device failures reported in the 
ongoing extension study despite an increase of 3678 injection attempts. According to the applicant, the 
performance was attributed to the recent design changes. Overall, the updated data showed a device failure of 
1.7% which was considered relatively low and therefore reassuring. As already stated above, the most likely 
clinical consequences of a device failure are underdosing. The CHMP acknowledged that a single underdosing 
event will not lead to an immediate safety risk to the patient. Additionally, consecutive suspected underdosing 
events could also be easily confirmed by LDL-C analysis. Additionally, in the Instructions for Use it is advised that 
when a patients has persistence of repeat device failures this should be discussed with the healthcare 
professional.  
Furthermore, since the cut-off date of July no unexpected or serious device related adverse has been observed. 
The incidence of device related adverse events was low, grade 1 or grade 2 and generally limited to injection site 
reactions. 
It was agreed with the MAH that neither unanticipated clinical effects nor harms were associated with the use of 
the new AMD device. Device related adverse events were uncommon, mostly not severe, and generally limited 
to injection site reactions (injection site bruising, injection site erythema, and injection site pain). There was a 
slightly higher incidence in device related adverse events in the QM regimen compared to the Q2W, which may 
be due to the differences injection frequency (1 injection for 140 mg Q2W and 3 injections for QM per treatment 
time point). However, there were no apparent differences in incidence in device related adverse events between 
subjects receiving evolocumab compared with those receiving placebo regardless of the device used.  
It was not specified whether the complaints and adverse device effects reported during the completed phase 3 
clinical trial (Study 2010356) and the ongoing clinical trial (Study 20120138) occurred under clinical site 
supervision in the clinic or without supervision in a home-use setting. Due to the low number of device-related 
adverse events and imbalance between home-use injections and in-clinic injections, no firm conclusions can be 
made regarding whether the device complaints occurred more often in a home-use setting than in the clinic. 
However, considering that the percentage of complaints is relatively low despite that the number of home-use 
injections is greater than the number of in clinic injections this can be accepted. 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 20/25 
  
  
Based on the evidence and considerations discussed above, the CHMP considered the inclusion of “Device 
Failure” as an important risk in the EU-RMP not warranted. 
2.6.1.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The updated total number of complaints and device related adverse events with a data cut-off of 17 January 
2016, derived from the ongoing extension study (20120138) was provided and indicated that there were no 
serious or unanticipated clinical effects or harms associated with the use of the AMD device.  
The safety of evolocumab in the 420 mg dose has been demonstrated during initial marketing authorisation 
(IMA) application. The safety of this dose delivered as solution for injection in a cartridge to be used with the 
automated mini-doser (AMD), has been sufficiently demonstrated. Therefore, from a clinical safety point of 
view, the CHMP considered that the line extension for Repatha 420 mg solution for injection in cartridge was 
acceptable. 
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
An updated RMP version 1.3 was provided in support of the application. The MAH has updated the RMP with 
information regarding the automated mini-doser (AMD) device and made some editorial changes to ensure that 
the content reflects the recent approval of Repatha. 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.3 is acceptable. The PRAC endorsed PRAC 
Rapporteur assessment report is attached. 
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 1.3 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Table 2: Summary of Safety Concerns 
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential Risks  -  Hypersensitivity 
immunogenicity 
- 
Missing information 
-  use in pregnant/lactating women 
-  use in paediatric patients 
-  use in elderly patients ≥ 75 years old 
-  use in patients with severe renal impairment 
- 
(eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73m2) 
-  use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) 
-  use in patients with Hepatitis-C 
-  use in patients with type 1 diabetes 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 21/25 
  
  
-  use in patients with HIV 
- 
long-term use including effects of LDL-C < 40 mg/dL or < 1.03 mmol/L 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
There are no changes to the pharmacovigilance plan. 
The PRAC, having considered the updated data submitted, was of the opinion that no changes to the existing 
pharmacovigilance plan are warranted. 
Risk minimisation measures 
There were no changes to the risk minimisation measures proposed. 
The PRAC, having considered the updated data submitted, was of the opinion that no changes to the existing risk 
minimisation measures are warranted. 
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed within the current 
application on the basis of a bridging report making reference to Repatha initial MAA.  
The applicant considered that the results from the original patient consultation were applicable for the addition 
of the cartridge on the basis that: (1) the pharmaceutical form remained unchanged (solution for injection), (2) 
the route of administrations remained unchanged (subcutaneous use), (3) the design and layout of the package 
leaflet remained consistent with the approved package leaflet, (4) the risks and safety information described in 
the parent package leaflet remained unchanged, (5) the clinical benefits described in the parent package leaflet 
remained unchanged, (6) administration instructions followed the same content, allowing for changes in the 
proposed pharmaceutical presentation. 
The CHMP agreed the information in the PL is the same, but the specific instructions for use of Repatha single 
use automated mini-doser and cartridge are significantly longer and contain additional steps compared (e.g. 
loading of the cartridge and troubleshooting) to the prefilled pen or syringe. The device has received a CE mark, 
and the instructions for use (IFU) were considered a critical part of the product information to ensure the correct 
administration of the medicinal substance. Therefore the applicant performed a user testing on the instructions 
for use for Repatha single use AMD and cartridge. The report submitted by the applicant has been found 
acceptable. 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 22/25 
  
  
2.9.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Repatha (evolocumab) is included in the additional 
monitoring list as it contains a new active substance which, on 1 January 2011, was not contained in any 
medicinal product authorised in the EU and it is a biological product that is not covered by the previous category 
and authorised after 1 January 2011.  
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Evolocumab is a first in class fully human monoclonal immunoglobulin G2 directed against human proprotein 
convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), which inhibits circulating PCSK9 from binding to the LDLR on the 
liver cell surface, thus preventing PCSK9-mediated LDLR degradation. This leads to LDL-C reduction. 
Evolocumab is authorised in treatment of patients with hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia and 
in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia. The effect of evolocumab on cardiovascular 
morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined. Efficacy has been demonstrated based on the reduction 
in LDL-C level, an established surrogate marker for cardiovascular disease. The effect of Repatha on 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality is investigated in long-term ongoing clinical trials.  
No new clinical studies were submitted within current application. The use of Repatha 420 mg dose was 
authorised within initial marketing authorisation (IMA) procedure where it was agreed that the dose 420 mg 
once monthly or every 2 weeks should be delivered using three pre-filled syringes or pre-filled pens 
administered consecutively within 30 minutes. With current application it was proposed to add new strength, 
Repatha 420 mg. This would permit that 420 mg dose once monthly or every 2 weeks could be delivered as 
single injection using cartridge with automated mini-doser (AMD) device.  
Comparative bioavailability between different ways of administration was investigated in study 20110168, 
assessed within the IMA procedure. This study showed that the 420 mg dose administered in currently assessed 
presentation as solution for injection in cartridge (containing 420 mg of evolocumab in 3.5 mL of 
solution [120 mg/mL]) used with AMD was bioequivalent with the 3 autoinjector/pens ([AI/pens]; 
containing 140 mg of evolocumab in 1 mL of solution each, [140 mg/mL]). 
Risks 
The safety of evolocumab in the 420 mg dose has been demonstrated during IMA procedure where it was 
concluded that evolocumab displayed an acceptable safety profile with a comparable or slightly higher 
incidence of adverse events to that of the comparator therapy (placebo or standard of care), with very limited 
patients discontinuing treatment or showing serious adverse events. In addition, evolocumab treatment did not 
cause any major effects on known safety problems associated with existing lipid lowering therapies such as liver 
disorders, renal disorders, diabetes and musculoskeletal disorders.  
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 23/25 
 
  
  
No new clinical studies were provided within current application. Cumulative complaints and adverse 
device effects data for the evolocumab 420 mg automated mini-doser (AMD) were provided with a 
data cut-off date of 17 January 2016 (coinciding with the most recent PSUR data lock point); the updated data 
came from the only ongoing trial to use the AMD, Study 20120138. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The CHMP considered that the benefit-risk balance for the line extension Repatha 420mg solution for injection 
in cartridge (containing 420 mg of evolocumab in 3.5 mL of solution) to be positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
risk-benefit balance of Repatha 420 mg Solution for injection is favourable in the following indication: 
Hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and non familial) or 
mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
• 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid lowering therapies in patients unable to reach LDL 
C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin or, 
• 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-intolerant, or for 
whom a statin is contraindicated. 
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and over with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies.  
The effect of Repatha on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the extension(s) of the marketing authorisation for Repatha subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the  agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to be 
implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions fully reflect the advice received from the PRAC.  
Assessment Report on extension of Marketing Authorisation  
EMA/140771/2017 
Page 25/25 
 
 
 
 
  
  
