SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Replagal. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 15 October 2003.  For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
REPLAGAL is a human α-galactosidase A (agalsidase alfa), which is produced in a continuous human 
cell  line.  Agalsidase  alfa  is  a  highly  purified  form  of  the  naturally  occurring  human  lysosomal 
hydrolase  enzyme  responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  globotriaosylceramide  (Gb3  or  ceramide 
trihexoside;  CTH).  α-Galactosidase  A  is  targeted  to  its  lysosomal  site  of  action  by  mannose-6-
phosphate  (M6P)  residues  on  the  α-galactosidase  A  molecule.  The  M6P  moiety  is  recognised  by 
specific  M6P  receptors  on  the  cell  surface.  Inside  the  cell  there  are  additional  M6P  receptors  in  the 
Golgi  complex  that  direct  the  enzyme  to  the  lysosomes.  Replagal  is  indicated  for  use  as  long-term 
enzyme replacement therapy in patients with Fabry Disease (α-galactosidase A deficiency). 
Fabry  Disease  is  a  rare  X-linked  recessive  glycosphingolipid  storage  disorder  that  is  caused  by 
deficient activity - subnormal or absent - of the lysosomal enzyme, α-galactosidase A. This leads to 
progressive  accumulation  of  neutral  glycosphingolipids,  predominantly  Gb3  in  most  tissues  and  cell 
types.  Fabry  Disease  is  a  heterogeneous  multisystem  disorder  with  variable  onset  of  symptoms 
affecting  the  nervous  system,  kidneys,  heart,  skin  and  gastrointestinal  system.  It  is  not  possible  to 
predict  the  phenotype  based  on  current  knowledge  of  the  different  genotypes  described  for  this 
disease. It is an extremely rare disorder, with an estimated prevalence of 500 to 1000 patients within 
the EU. The most troublesome symptom in many of these patients is severe, debilitating neuropathic 
pain  with  onset  usually  from  early  childhood.  Premature  death  usually  occurs  in  the  fourth  or  fifth 
decade of life and results from renal, cardiac, or cerebrovascular complications.   Many heterozygous 
female  carriers  of  Fabry  Disease  ultimately  become  symptomatic.  At  present  there  is  no  specific 
curative  treatment  for  the  condition  and  patient  management  is  limited  to  symptom  control  and 
supportive measures.  
Replagal  treatment  should  be  supervised  by  a  physician  experienced  in  the  management  of  patients 
with  Fabry  Disease  or  other  inherited  metabolic  diseases.  Replagal  is  administered  at  a  dose  of 
0.2 mg/kg  body  weight  every  other  week  by  intravenous  infusion  over  40  minutes.  Replagal  is  for 
intravenous  use  in  adults.  No  studies  in  special  patient  populations  including  children  (0-17  years), 
patients  over  the  age  of  65  and  those  with  hepatic  impairment  have  been  performed  and  no  dosage 
regimen can be recommended in these patients. No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with renal 
impairment. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Replagal  is  supplied  as  a  sterile  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  for  dilution  prior  to 
administration presented in a 5 ml Type I glass (Ph.Eur.) vial. The vial is closed with a butyl rubber 
stopper that has a fluoro-resin coating on solution contact surfaces, a one-piece 20-mm aluminium seal 
and a white plastic flip-off cap. Each vial contains 3.5 mg of agalsidase alfa in 3.5 ml of concentrate, 
sodium phosphate monobasic, monohydrate, polysorbate 20, sodium chloride and water for injections.  
Apart  from  the  active  substance,  all  other  excipients  used  for  formulation  comply  with  specific 
monographs  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  (Ph.Eur.)  and  /or  the  United  States  Pharmacopoeia 
(USP) monographs. No human or animal derived components are used as excipient. 
Active substance 
Description 
Agalsidase  alfa  is  a  lysosomal  acid  hydrolase  that  specifically  cleaves  terminal  α-linked  galactose 
residues from the glycosphingolipid Gb3.  Agalsidase alfa is the active ingredient in Replagal and is 
extensively purified from the cells and the culture medium by a five step chromatography process and 
1/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  viral filtration step. The  mature  enzyme is a  glycoprotein and  consists of  a  100 kD homodimer  of 
two  approximately  50,000  Da  subunits.    Each  subunit  consists  of  398  amino  acids.  The  primary 
translation  product is  post-translationally modified by the cleavage of a signal peptide sequence and 
by the addition of the 3 N linked oligosaccharides. Alfa galactosidase activity is expressed in Units, 
where  one  unit  is  defined  as  the  amount  of  enzyme  required  to  hydrolyse  1  nanomole  of  4-
methylumbelliferyl-α-D-galactopyranoside substrate per hour at 37°C.  
The identity of agalsidase alfa as well as product and process related impurities (including aggregates) 
are sufficiently verified by a broad range of tests.  The applicant has committed to further revise the 
specifications post-authorisation based on further manufacturing experience. 
Development genetics, Genetic stability and cell bank system 
The assembly of the production strain has been comprehensively described. The production strain is 
derived from a human continuous cell line. The use of a human cell line and a human glycosylation 
pattern  was  considered  necessary  for  an  optimal  efficacy.  In  view  of  the  viral  screening  of  the  cell 
banks and the excessive and validated removal/ inactivation viral tests performed during production, 
the  applicant  has  provided  sufficient  information  to  ensure  that  the  viral  safety  is  not  a  matter  of 
concern.  In  addition,  all  vials  tested  from  each  cell  bank  were  found  to  be  free  of  microbial 
contamination.  
To  ensure  a  consistent  productivity  a  well-characterised  α-galactosidase  A-producing  continuous 
human  cell  line  was  developed,  which  has  been  comprehensively  described  in  the  application.  The 
production strain was prepared by stable transfection with a fully characterised plasmid. The plasmid 
was assembled from well-known DNA sequences and synthetic DNA fragments. A Master Cell Bank 
(MCB)  and  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB)  have  been  prepared  from  this  agalsidase  alfa  producing 
continuous  human  cell  line.  The  methods  used  to  establish  the  MCB  have  been  well  described  and 
involved standard techniques widely used in DNA recombinant technology. The preparation as well as 
maintenance (location and storage conditions) of the MCB and WCB is described in sufficient detail 
in the documentation. Approximately the same protocol was applied for both the MCB and the WCB 
expansion process.  
All subsequent new WCB will be prepared using the same protocol. The stability program for both the 
MCB and WCB is considered to be sufficient and all relevant parameters are included in the testing 
program.  However,  the  applicant  post-authorisation  will  establish  additional  specifications.  In 
addition, stability monitoring of MCB and WCB based on established protocols, will continue. 
For  determining  the  genetic  stability  at  the  nucleotide  level,  characterisation  studies  using  classical 
tests were performed on material from the MCB and the WCB and end of production cells (EPC) from 
both  the  MCB  and  WCB.  Additional  tests  to  demonstrate  genetic  stability  will  be  performed  by  the 
applicant post-authorisation.  
Fermentation  
Cell culture is performed in two phases: cell expansion and harvesting of conditioned medium. During 
the expansion phase, a culture is initiated by thawing a single vial of the WCB and expanded to a scale 
sufficient  to  produce  approximately  330L  of  unprocessed  bulk.  In  general,  sufficient  in-process 
controls are performed. 
Purification 
The  purification process consists of 5 conventional chromatographic steps and a viral filtration step. 
For all column steps, sufficient details on operating conditions such as the size of the column, washing 
and elution conditions, flow rates, regeneration and in process controls are submitted. Several 0.2µm 
filtration  steps  are  included  in  the  purification  process.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  introduce 
additional testing to further define column performance based on additional manufacturing experience. 
Active substance characterisation 
Characterisation studies have been performed by IEF, Western blot, N-terminal sequence analysis and 
the  enzymatic  activity  was  determined  by  a  fluorometric  assay.  A  cell  based  internalisation  assay  is 
performed  to  confirm  that  appropriate  post-translational  modifications  are  present  for  internalisation 
by human cells and localisation to lysosomes.  Comparability between active substance manufactured 
at  different  sites  was  demonstrated  by  characterisation  studies,  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  monkeys 
and clinical studies in man. The predicted molecular mass of the agalsidase alfa peptide monomer is 
45400 Da. The agalsidase alfa mass spectrum of the reference standard as determined by MS covers 
2/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
molecular masses from 46 to 55 kD, which is indicative for heterogeneous glycosylation. The dimeric 
nature of the native form of α-galactosidase-A is shown by SE-HPLC.  
Routine procedures as well as characterisation studies for carbohydrate analysis are based on specific 
deglycosylation  and  dephosphorylation  enzymes.  Characterisation  of  all  carbohydrates  structures  in 
the  reference  preparation  is  performed  by  anionic  exchange  HPLC.  This  glycosylation  is  different 
from CHO cell derived α-galactosidase A. The results of the ongoing characterisation studies will be 
submitted post-authorisation. 
Specification of the active substance 
The specifications and routine tests cover all tests commonly applied to purified protein solutions.   
Specifications include physical tests for clarity, colour and pH. Identity is assured by several methods 
including Western blot, N terminal sequence, peptide map, IEF, SDS-PAGE .  
Purity is controlled by SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC   Tests for other impurities, which originate from the 
cell culture and purification process such as host cell DNA and host cell protein are also performed. 
Potency is evaluated using a bioassay based on internalisation into human cells, protein content and a 
specific enzyme activity test. 
Bioburden and endotoxins are also tested. 
During the evaluation process a number of questions were raised regarding specifications and routine 
testing.  Most of these have been adequately solved, while some remaining points will be addressed as 
post-authorisation follow up measures.  
Analytical development 
Assays used as release tests, tests on purified bulk and in process control tests have been extensively 
validated.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  further  develop  and  validate  the  host  cell  protein  assay. 
Furthermore the bioburden determination as well as the bacterial endotoxin assay has been validated. 
Enzymatic activity is evaluated by use of a fluorometric assay. A qualified Internalisation bio-assay is 
also  performed  and  the  confidence  limit  set  for  agalsidase  alfa  activity  will  be  re-evaluated  on  the 
basis of additional batch data. 
The  current  reference  standard  is  extensively  characterised,  compared  with  the  original  reference 
standard and has been sufficiently described.  
Process validation 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  with  regard  to  growth  and  production  media 
preparation, cell culturing and purification. For the validation of the media preparation the results of 5 
lots of both growth and production are submitted. All acceptance criteria were met.  
Validation  of  both  the  fermentation  process  and  the  purification  process  was  accomplished  through 
increased sampling and testing during the regular (full scale) manufacturing process.  
The  purification  process  is  sufficiently  validated  by  determination  of  the  different  parameters  in  the 
purified bulk.  
Removal of DNA during purification was studied by spiking experiments using down scaled columns 
and  by  determination  of  DNA  in  the  different  fractions  of  the  large  scale  production.    The  size  and 
structure of host cell DNA isolated from the agalsidase alfa purified bulk was also determined. Given 
the additional commitments that have  been  made,  along with the  results  of the used resin study, the 
applicant  has  demonstrated  that  the  host  cell  DNA  levels  will  be  well  controlled  and  that  the 
theoretical risk presented by the use of a human cell line will be further minimised. 
Chromatography  column  cleaning  was  monitored  during  washes  for  column  preparation  and 
regeneration by collecting samples of appropriate column effluents. It is not expected that the resins 
are  damaged  by  the  regeneration  and  storage  conditions.  The  claimed  life  span  of  the  different 
columns  is  sufficiently  justified.    The  company  will  continue  to  monitor  the  performance  of  the 
different columns post-authorisation. The purification process is sufficiently monitored and controlled 
by the measures already taken and the commitments given by the applicant. 
Impurities 
To demonstrate consistency of impurity profiles, batch analysis results from eight lots used in clinical 
trials and process validation purified bulk lots were used.  
3/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch to batch consistency 
Data are presented on all batches of α-galactosidase A products that have been used in preclinical and 
clinical  studies  described  in  the  MAA  stability  studies.  The  data  demonstrate  that  the  ability  of  the 
manufacturing  process  to  produce  active  substance  that  meets  the  specification  in  a  reproducible 
manner.  
Stability of the active ingredient 
The  Purified  Bulk  stability  specification  is  in  concordance  with  the  specifications  for  release  of  the 
active substance and the finished product. Additional stability data will be submitted on an on-going 
basis. 
Other ingredients 
Excipients  used  to  compose  the  finished  product  are  polysorbate-20,  sodium  chloride,  sodium 
hydroxide,  sodium  phosphate  monobasic  (monohydrate)  and  water  for  injections.  Except  for  the 
sodium  phosphate  (monobasic  monohydrate),  which  conforms  to  the  USP,  excipients  used  comply 
with  Ph.Eur.  The  quality  of  the  nitrogen  (US  National  Formulary)  used  to  fill  the  headspace  of  the 
vials is sufficiently guaranteed.  
Packaging material 
The  primary  packaging  comprises  two  components,  a  5-ml  glass  vial  (Type  I),  and  a  grey  serum 
stopper  composed  of  butyl  rubber  laminated  with  fluoro-resin.  The  vial  is  closed  with  the  rubber 
stopper,  a  one-piece  20-mm  aluminium  seal  and  a  white  plastic  flip-off  cap.  Each  final  package 
contains 1 vial and it can be concluded that the packaging material used suits the intended purpose. 
Product development and finished product 
Method of preparation 
The preparation of the formulated bulk and filling into the final container is performed at Chesapeake 
Biological Laboratories (CBL), Baltimore, USA. Measures to prevent contamination and sterilisation 
procedures are described.  The thawed bulk is diluted with filtered (0.22µm) formulation diluent to the 
target  protein  concentration  of  1mg/ml.    An  appropriate  down  scale  procedure  was  applied  for 
validation of the 0.22 µm membrane filters used for the filtration of the finished product. Polysorbate 
20  is  added,  and,  if  necessary  the  pH  is  adjusted  and  either  formulation  diluent  or  Agalsidase  alfa 
purified bulk is added to achieve the desired protein concentration. The filter units are sterilised and 
tested for filter integrity by bubble point method.  
Sterile formulated bulk is filled by weight into the final container. Upper and lower action and alert 
limits are set in the batch record and limits for filling into the final container has been included in the 
application.  Vial  preparation  includes  dry  heat  sterilisation/depyrogenation  and  stoppers  are 
autoclaved.  Microbiological testing  of raw  materials used, and  preparation  of formulation  buffer  are 
described  in  sufficient  detail.    The  process  has  been  sufficiently  validated  (e.g.  mixing,  sterile 
filtration).  The  manufacturing  process  as  defined  in  the  current  manufacturing  batch  record  is 
considered capable of yielding a uniform product that meets specifications.  
Product development 
During  development  product  derived  from  a  different  cell  line  as  well  as  different  formulations, 
manufacturing  processes  and  manufacturing  sites  were  used.    Comparability  between  the  different 
products  used in  clinical trials and that intended for commercial  use  was  demonstrated  by extensive 
characterisation studies and pharmacokinetic studies in animals. 
Specifications of the finished product 
Lot  release  and  stability  specifications  for  agalsidase  alfa  finished  product  have  been  developed  to 
ensure the consistency and safety of the product.  The list of tests performed on the finished product 
includes  tests  to  address  product  identity  (Western  analysis),  potency  (specific  activity  and  total 
protein), purity (Size Exclusion HPLC and RP-HPLC) and safety (endotoxin and sterility) in addition 
to standard quality assays (appearance, pH, particulates and volume of fill). The applicant will include 
determination  of  polysorbate  20  and  IEF  in  the  release  testing  of  the  Finished  Product.  The 
4/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
manufacturing process as defined in the current manufacturing batch record is considered capable of 
yielding a uniform product that meets specifications.  
Stability of the finished product 
Studies  were  performed  on  GMP  lots  planned  for  clinical  trial  use  and/or  consistency  support.  All 
studies were performed using the proposed market formulation.  
Agalsidase  alfa  Finished  Products  is  stable  over  12  months  when  stored  at  2-8°C,  the  claimed  shelf 
life.  Ongoing  stability  studies  will  include  assays  to  determine  deamidation  and  oxidation  of  the 
finished product.  
Viral safety 
The cell line for the production of agalsidase alfa is derived from a human continuous cell line FBS 
was used in the production of the MCB and WCB and bovine calf serum, BSA and bovine transferrin 
are used during cell culture. Porcine trypsin is used during the propagation phase. Trypsin is not used 
during production phase. No other material of human or animal origin is used during production and 
purification except for immobilised heparin (porcine) linked to a column resin used for purification. A 
specific virus-reducing step is included in the purification process.  
Microbiological quality of the starting material and reagents 
The  cell  bank  system  was  determined  to  be  free  of  viral  and  microbial  contamination  by  extensive 
testing. The applied test program is appropriate to sufficiently assure the microbiological quality of the 
cell bank system.    
Biological materials and reagents 
Considering  the  limited  use  of  this  FBS  (only  MCB  and  WCB)  the  nature  of  the  animal  tissue  (i.e. 
serum,  category  IV:  no  detectable  infectivity)  the  information  already  supplied,  the  risk  of  TSE 
transmission through the FBS is considered negligible. 
Concerning TSE risk assessment, in view of the country of origin, the nature of the animal tissue (i.e. 
serum,  category  IV:  no  detectable  infectivity)  used  for  the  manufacturing  of  BSA,  calf  serum  and 
bovine  transferrin,  the  risk  of  TSE  transmission  is  considered  negligible.  In  conformity  with  the 
CPMP guideline  on  TSE  (CPMP/BWP/1230/98, the  applicant  will audit the suppliers/manufacturers 
of  FBS,  BSA  and  bovine  transferrin  at  regular  intervals.  Certificates  of  suitability  for  bovine 
transferrin and bovine serum albumin have been provided. 
Porcine trypsin used during cell expansion phase has been tested for porcine parvovirus.  
Several  reports  on  virus  reduction/inactivation  during  the  process  to  prepare  heparin  from  porcine 
source material are enclosed. The viral safety of the purification column is sufficiently guaranteed.   
Virus validation studies of the production process 
The agalsidase alfa purified bulk purification process consists of 5 chromatographic purification steps 
and a filtration step. All steps have been validated for the virus reducing capacity using scaled-down 
processes with intermediates and reagents taken from the full scale manufacturing process conducted 
at BSCP. Virus reduction factors were calculated in accordance with NfG on virus validation studies: 
the  design,  contribution  and  interpretation  of  the  studies  validating  the  inactivation  and  removal  of 
viruses (CPMP/BWP/268/95), although the mechanism of clearance (inactivation or removal) was not 
determined.  
The  applicant provided  data on the viral clearance by used resins. In principle, the reduction factors 
are comparable to the data obtained in the studies using new resins.   
Viral safety of a product is based on; selection and testing of cell lines and raw materials, capacity of 
the production process to clear infectious viruses; and testing of product at different steps for absence 
of contaminating viruses. As can be concluded from the original application and the response of the 
applicant  to several questions raised, cell lines and raw  materials are extensively tested. In addition, 
during production, the product is also tested extensively for absence of contaminating viruses.  
It is felt that viral safety of the product is sufficiently guaranteed by the total package of testing and 
validation data.  
Reduction  of  viruses  by  column  cleaning  and  sanitisation  solutions  were  performed  to  evaluate  the 
extent of virus reduction. Virus reducing capacity of the solutions used is sufficiently demonstrated. 
5/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  the  requirements  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  Production  and  Quality  Control  of  Medicinal 
Products  Derived  by  Recombinant  DNA  Technology  as  well  as  other  relevant  guidelines.  The 
information  provided  in  the  application  demonstrated  consistent  production  of  agalsidase  alfa 
achieving a well-defined quality for the active substance and the finished product. The fermentation, 
down-stream processes and purification of the active substance are adequately controlled. Agalsidase 
alfa  has  been  well-characterised  using  state-of  the-art  methods  with  regard  to  its  physicochemical 
characteristics. The microheterogenity has been sufficiently documented. The manufacturing process 
of the finished product, which complies with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), has been described 
in sufficient detail and product specifications are adequate. In general, methods to control the quality 
of  the  product  are  adequate.  Moreover,  this  is  a  product  of  biological  origin  for  which  all  the 
virological aspects have been satisfactorily addressed. Stability data support a shelf-life of 12 months 
for the finished product.  
The quality of Replagal is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Some  quality  aspects  will  be  further  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Viral safety and batch-to-
batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  tests  will  be  performed  according  to  the 
agreed specifications. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Bioequivalence 
The  initial  agalsidase  alfa  drug  product  developed  by  TKT  was  produced  from  stably  transfected 
human diploid fibroblast cells and designated DRX005A.  Three studies in mice (single dose toxicity, 
pharmacokinetics, and biodistribution) were carried out with this formulation which was also used in 
the Phase I clinical study (TKT001). 
For post-phase I studies, agalsidase alfa production was changed to a continuous human cell line, and 
the  formulation  was  designated  DRX005B.  The  site  of  manufacture  also  changed.  Two  single  dose 
studies (one each in mice and rats) were performed to compare pharmacokinetics between DRX005A 
and  DRX005B.  DRX005B,  was  further  characterised  in  the  single  and  repeat  dose  toxicity-,  the 
pharmacology,  the  biodistribution  and  the  pivotal  Phase  II  clinical  (TKT003)  studies  and 
comparability  of  the  enzyme  produced  at  the  two  sites  was  adequately  shown.  The  change  in 
manufacturing site for agalsidase alfa did not have any impact on the quality of DRX005B that may 
effect the evaluation of safety or efficacy from clinical trials. 
The manufacturer for bulk product for all subsequent clinical studies and proposed for release onto the 
European  market  is  Bio  Science  Contract  Production  Corp  (BSCP).    Two  pharmacokinetic  studies 
have  been  carried  out  in  rats  and  monkeys  to  compare  products  manufactured  at  different 
manufacturing  sites.    BSCP  product  was  further  characterised  in  reproductive  and  biodistribution 
studies  in  animals  and  in  all  subsequent  clinical  studies  (TKT005,  TKT006,  and  TKT007).  The 
formulation aspects and characterisation studies are more fully discussed in Part II of this document. 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vivo studies 
Pharmacodynamic  effects  were  evaluated  in  an  agalsidase  alfa  knock-out  mouse  model  of  Fabry 
disease. These mice have considerable accumulation of globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) in the liver, heart 
and  kidneys.  After  treatment  with  a  single  dose  of  0.2  mg/kg  of  DRX005B  agalsidase  alfa,  the 
concentration of Gb3 was reduced in liver, heart, and kidney.  Furthermore, the reduction was more 
evident at a higher dose.  
Agalsidase  alfa  was  effectively  targeted  in  knockout  mice  to  key  tissues  that  show  Gb3  induced 
pathology in Fabry Disease, indicating that the enzyme reaches the lysosomes in an active form, and 
catabolises  Gb3  in  those  tissues.  The  fraction  of  agalsidase  alfa  that  is  taken  up,  however,  and  the 
duration of its activity, cannot  be  concluded from the  pharmacodynamics/pharmacokinetics data.  As 
6/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this  is  of  importance  for  finding  the  proper  dose  interval,  it  is  considered  acceptable  to  address  this 
issue  in  the  clinical  part.  Reduced  accumulation  of  Gb3  was  demonstrated  in  endothelial  cells  and 
parenchymal  cells.    No  severe  general  pharmacodynamic  side  effects  were  observed  during  the 
studies. 
General pharmacodynamics 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  were  not  performed,  the  argument  being  that  α-galactosidase  A  is  a 
protein  normally  produced  by humans. To the  patients active α-galactosidase A is a  foreign  protein, 
possibly  immunogenic,  and  the  administration  route  causes  abnormal  exposure  of  the  enzyme  to 
various tissues. However, the lack of safety pharmacology studies is acceptable in light of the results 
of the repeat dose toxicity tests. In addition, α-galactosidase A is not highly active at plasma pH. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In  the  single-dose  pharmacokinetic  studies  performed  in  mice,  rats  and  monkeys,  there  was  early 
distribution throughout the blood volume, followed by uptake into liver, spleen, lungs, heart, kidney 
and  bone  marrow  within  a  few  hours  of  injection.  The  administered  enzyme  had  a  biphasic 
distribution and elimination profile in serum with an elimination half-life of 2 hr or less in mice, rats, 
and monkeys, and clearance from the circulation within 3-6 hr in these species. Both AUC and Cmax 
were proportional to dose. 
Elimination of the enzyme from kidney and liver has been shown to follow first order kinetics.  The 
enzyme, in an active form, was retained in those viscera for more than 24-48h after a single injection. 
Tissue half-lives was 28 h in liver and 1-2 days in kidney. Low enzyme was found in the brain. It is 
not known whether it penetrates to the foetus nor if it passes into milk, which has been reflected in the 
SPC. Sufficient information of tissue-bound enzyme activity has been provided. 
After  single  and  repeated  weekly  dosing,  AUC  levels  generally  increased  dose-proportionally  or 
slightly  less  than  dose-proportional.  Repeat,  weekly  dosing  in  rats  and  monkeys  and  repeat  daily 
dosing  in  female  rabbits  showed  no  signs  of  accumulation.    After  repeated  dosing  in  rats,  total 
clearance  was  increased.  The  occurrence  of  antibodies  to  agalsidase  alpha  in  this  study  suggested  a 
role  of immune-mediated alterations in pharmacokinetics. No antibodies were observed in monkeys. 
There were no differences in pharmacokinetics of different batches of agalsidase alfa. 
Toxicology 
Dose extrapolation based on exposure (AUC) is  hampered, because exposure was not determined in 
the key studies with rats, and there are indications for neutralising capacity of the antibodies formed in 
this species. Antibodies were not detected in the study with monkeys, and kinetic data revealed that 
exposure  (AUC)  at  the  highest  dose  level  tested  was  approximately  4  times  the  exposure  at  human 
therapeutic dose levels. 
Single dose toxicity 
Single intravenous administration to rats and mice showed that treatment with agalsidase alfa was well 
tolerated up to the highest doses given, 10 mg/kg in rats and 2.3 mg/kg in mice, 50 and 11 times the 
biweekly clinical dose respectively.  
The acute study with mice was performed with the initial product (see Bioequivalence), and therefore 
the  dossier  lacks  an  adequate  study  with  a  second  species.  However,  a  second  species  study  is  not 
strictly required according to ICH S6 and therefore this is acceptable. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Intravenous dosing with agalsidase alfa caused no treatment related toxic effects in the 2 week dose 
finding  study  with  rabbits  (up  to  1  mg/kg/day),  in  the  13  week  studies  with  rats  and  Cynomolgus 
monkeys  (up  to  1  mg/kg/week)  and  in  the  26  week  study  with  rats  (up  to  1  mg/kg/week).  The 
applicant,  13  weeks,  has  appropriately  justified  the  duration  of  the  repeated  dose  toxicity  test  in  the 
monkey. 
Antibodies to agalsidase alfa were detected in the majority of rats from the multiple dose studies, in 
several of the dogs dosed for 4 weeks, and in 9/10 rabbits dosed daily for 14 days. Antibodies were not 
detected in monkeys dosed for 13 weeks.  
The beagle dog appeared not to be a good test species for evaluating multiple doses of agalsidase alfa 
due  to  the  formation  of  antibodies  to  either  human  serum  albumin  (HSA)  or  agalsidase  alfa  or  both 
7/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(HSA  was  not  included  in  the  final  formulation  proposed  for  marketing).  This  resulted  in  severe 
anaphylactic response after 3 or 4 weekly injections leading to several deaths and moribund sacrifices. 
All abnormal signs were related to the anaphylactic reaction.  
Nephroblastomas were observed in 2 high dose females from the 26 week rat study.  These were not 
considered related to treatment and it is likely they were pre-existing at initiation of the study.   
Genotoxicity  
Mutagenicity  studies  were  not  performed.  This  is  considered  acceptable  based  on  the  nature  of  the 
compound. 
Carcinogenicity  
Formal carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with agalsidase alfa, although the compound 
is  intended  for  long-term  treatment.  However,  carcinogenic  potential  is  not  anticipated  based  on  the 
nature of the compound.  
An in vitro study demonstrated that agalsidase alfa did not alter the in vitro tumourigenicity or growth 
rates of human kidney cells. The nephroblastomas observed in two female rats that received high dose 
treatment  in  the  26  week  study  are  considered  as  not  related  to  treatment.  There  are  no  other 
indications for carcinogenicity. 
Reproduction Toxicity  
A reproductive study in male rats was performed with maximum dose levels of 1 mg/kg and a dosing 
frequency  of  3  times  per  week  starting  4  weeks  prior  to  mating.  There  were  no  adverse  effects  of 
intravenous dosing on any parameter of male reproduction. A combined fertility/teratogenicity study 
in  female  rats  was  performed  with  dose  levels  up  to  1  mg/kg  with  daily  dosing  from  pre-mating, 
during  mating,  and  up  to  day  17  of  gestation.  There  were  no  effects  of  agalsidase  alfa  on  maternal 
reproductive  performance  or  on  foetal  development.  A  teratology  study  in  female  rabbits  was 
performed  with  daily  intravenous  dosing  with  levels  up  to  1  mg/kg  from  day  7  through  day  19  of 
gestation. Replagal  had  no effect on female  reproductive  performance or on early embryo- or foetal 
development. Based on the Segment II studies in rats and rabbits, it is expected that Replagal will not 
cause  adverse  embryo/foetotoxic  effects  when  exposed  during  organogenesis.  However,  peri-  and 
postnatal studies are lacking. It  is  also  not known whether Replagal is excreted in human  milk. The 
absence of valid data on reproduction is adequately reflected in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
Immunotoxicity 
Immunotoxicological effects were not directly investigated in the preclinical studies and are not well 
characterised  on  tissue  level  (deposition  of  immune  complexes).  Tissues  from  antibody  positive 
animals  from  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  were  not  investigated  for  the  presence  of  immune-
complexes.  However,  18-month  human  safety  data  do  not  give  raise  to  concerns  with  reference  to 
immune  deposits.  In  addition,  tolerance  seems  to  develop  in  humans  after  long-term  exposure,  and 
circulating immune complexes have not been observed. 
The safety margin based on the results from the 26-week study in rats is 3 (based on the highest dose 
level  tested),  but  might  be  lower  as  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  toxicity  was  masked  by  the 
immunogenicity of the compound. The safety  margin  based  on the results  of  the  monkey study  is  4 
(based on the highest dose level tested) and is considered sufficient.  
Information on the long term monitoring for the presence of antibodies to Replagal and their impact 
on  clinical  safety  and  efficacy,  as  well  as  any  clinical  evidence  of  immune  complex  disease  will  be 
submitted post-authorisation.  
Local tolerance 
No specific test of local irritancy to veins or the subcutaneous tissues has been performed. 
However, the findings in the repeated dose and other studies have not shown any signs of particular 
local irritancy to veins, nor has incompatibility with blood been indicated. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk Assessment 
Exposure  to  the  environment  is  considered  very  limited  and  therefore  no  risk  of  concern  would  be 
expected. 
8/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product interactions 
Product  interactions  were  not  studied,  but  it  was  considered  acceptable  to  address  this  issue  in  the 
clinical  part.  However,  the  theoretical  risk  of  inhibition  of  intracellular  α-galactosidase  activity  by 
chloroquine, amiodarone, benoquin or gentamicin is reflected in section 4.5 of the SPC. Any evidence 
of product interactions will be reported post-authorisation.   
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Overall,  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of 
agalsidase alfa. Adverse effects were not observed in the toxicologic programme with rats, rabbits and 
monkeys. Although the incidence of Fabry disease is low in females, the lack of data on reproduction 
toxicity  and  lactation,  is  considered  a  drawback.  Based  on  the  nature  of  the  product  the  lack  of 
genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies is considered acceptable. Having taken into account that the 
estimate  of a safety  margin  from  the  study with rats is  hampered, and that the  study  duration  in the 
study  with  monkey  is  rather  short  given  the  life-long  use  of  the  product,  it  can  never  the  less  be 
concluded  that  the  package  on  toxicity  data  as  a  whole  suffices  for  this  compound,  provided  that 
careful clinical observations are made post-marketing.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Replagal is indicated for use as long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients with Fabry Disease, 
a disease caused by an inherited deficiency in the activity of the lysosomal enzyme α-galactosidase A. 
It is an extremely rare disorder, with an estimated prevalence of 1000 to 2000 patients within the EU. 
Due to lack of functioning α-galactosidase A, there is an abnormal accumulation and tissue deposition 
of the glycosphingolipid globotriaosylceramide (Gb3, or ceramide trihexoside; CTH) especially in the 
kidney, heart and nervous system. At present, there is no treatment available for the disease, other than 
palliative care.  
α-Galactosidase A is a glycoprotein that consists of a homodimer of two approximately 50,000 kDa 
subunits,  each  consisting  of  398  amino  acids.  Replagal  contains  the  purified  human  enzyme  α-
galactosidase A (agalsidase alfa), produced by genetic engineering in a continuous human cell line. α-
Galactosidase A is targeted to its lysosomal site of action by mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) residues on 
the α-galactosidase a molecule. The M6P moiety is recognised by specific M6P receptors on the cell 
surface.  Inside  the  cell  there  are  additional  M6P  receptors  in  the  Golgi  complex,  which  direct  the 
enzyme  to  the  lysosomes.  Synthesized  enzymes  which  escape  this  intracellular  routing  system  are 
secreted  by  the  cell  via  the  constitutive  secretory  pathway  and  are  often  recaptured  by  cell  surface 
M6P receptors that return α–galactosidase A to the lysosome via the endocytic pathway.  
α–Galactosidase  A  administered  intravenously  to  animals  or  humans  is  internalized  by  cell  surface 
M6P  receptors  and  ultimately  enters  the  cell’s  lysosome  via  the  endocytic  pathway.    This  aspect  of 
cellular  uptake  of  lysosomal  enzymes  makes  α–galactosidase  A  enzyme  replacement  therapy  a 
feasible therapeutic strategy for patients with Fabry Disease. 
The  recommended  dose  for  Replagal  is  0.2  mg/kg  body  weight,  to  be  administered  by  intravenous 
infusion over 40 minutes every other week. Since Fabry disease is a genetic disorder, the replacement 
therapy is foreseen to be a life long therapy. 
9/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overview of Clinical Trials Programme 
Phase  Design 
Protocol 
TKT0011 
I 
TKT003    
II 
dose 
label, 
Open 
escalation safety study 
Randomised, double blind, 
trial
placebo  controlled 
No 
Pts 
10 
26 
IV  Dose 
(mg/kg) 
0.007  – 
0.11 
0, 
eow2 
0.2 
Duration 
Single dose 
24 wks 
TKT005  
II 
Randomised, double blind, 
trial
placebo  controlled 
15 
0, 
eow 
0.2 
24 wks 
TKT006  
TKT007 
TKT014 
Ext  
003 
Ext  
005 
Open label extension study  25 
0.2 eow 
1 year+ 
Open label extension study  15 
0.2 eow 
1 year + 
Open label,  PK and  safety 
study  
15 
0.2 eow 
4-12 
months+ 
1. Study used α-galactosidase A produced from stably transfected human fibroblasts (DRX005A); all 
line) 
other 
2. eow = every other week 
(α-galactosidase  produced 
studies  utilise  DRX005B 
from  a  human  cell 
In  the  clinical  programme,  two  formulations  of  human  α-galactosidase  A  were  used.    The  first 
designated as DRX005A contained α-galactosidase A derived from stably transfected human diploid 
fibroblast cells formulated in a buffer containing human serum albumin.  This was used in the Phase I 
study TKT001. The second formulation designated as DRX005B, was used in all subsequent clinical 
studies as well as supporting preclinical studies. This formulation contained agalsidase alfa produced 
in  a  continuous  human  cell  line  in  a  phosphate  buffer  formulation  identical  to  that  intended  for 
marketing.  The  establishment  of  bioequivalence  for  the  different  agalsidase  alfa  formulations  are 
discussed in more detail in Part III of this document. The clinical trials were performed according to 
Good Clinical Practise (GCP) standards and agreed international ethical principles. 
Clinical Pharmacology 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  α-galactosidase  A  was  assessed 
the 
pharmacokinetics  in  studies  TKT001  and  TKT006,  both  in  a  limited  number  of  patients  due  to  the 
rarity of the disease. 
in  study  TKT001  and 
Pharmacodynamics 
In  one  faze  I  clinical  trial  in  patients  with  Fabry  disease  (TKT001),  following  a  single  intravenous 
infusion no correlation was observed between the dose of DRX005A administered (0.007-0.11 mg/kg) 
and  pharmacodynamic  effects  on  liver  (decrease  of  Gb3  accumulation),  plasma  or  24  hour  urine 
sediment Gb3 levels. Accumulation of sphingolipids in cardiac (TKT005), liver (TKT001) and renal 
parenchymal cells (TKT003) was established at baseline.  
Liver Gb3 content was measured in pre-dose and 44 hr post-dose biopsy samples and Gb3 content in 
24 hr urine sediment was measured at pre-dose, 1, 7, and 28 days post administration. Blood samples 
were taken for plasma Gb3 analysis just prior to dosing and at scheduled intervals up to 28 days post-
dose. 
Plasma Gb3 concentrations were variable between patients, and showed no specific trends or changes 
after drug administration. Liver Gb3 levels decreased in 9 of the 10 patients with a mean decrease in 
liver Gb3 of 31% (P<0.05). 24 hour urine sediment Gb3 levels demonstrated a decrease in 9 of the 10 
subjects,  with  a  mean  of  38  %  at  28  days  post-dose  (p<0.01).  No  decrease  was  seen  in  the  samples 
taken 1 and 7 days post-infusion.  
10/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These data indicate that agalsidase alfa is capable of decreasing the sphingolipid accumulation in the 
tissue.  Because  the  accumulation  of  sphingolipids  is  regarded  as  the  cause  for  the  disease  and  its 
clinical  presentation,  the  pharmacodynamic  results  indicate  that  a  possible  clinical  improvement  or 
stabilisation among patients is to be expected. However, a concluding positive assessment of efficacy 
is not possible based on the pharmacodynamic results alone. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  data  in  male  Fabry  Disease  patients  were  derived  from  two  studies.  In  study 
TKT001, pharmacokinetics of α-galactosidase A was evaluated following single dose escalation over 
the range of 0.007 – 0.110 mg/kg and in study TKT006 after multiple dose administration (0.2 mg/kg 
every 14 days). Pharmacokinetic data in females was derived from Study TKT014 after a single dose 
of 0.2 mg/kg. One analytical method was used for the determination of α-galactosidase A activity in 
plasma.  The  method  was  an  enzyme  activity  assay,  which  utilises  α-galactosidase  A  to  hydrolyse      
4-methylumbelliferyl-α-D-galactopyranoside.  The  amount  of  4-methylumbelliferyl  end  products 
present in the sample following hydrolysis is measured with fluorescence detection.  
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  (Cmax,  Tmax,  T1/2,  AUC∞,  MRT,  Vss,  CL,  dose  proportionality)  were 
estimated  by  both  non-compartmental  and  compartmental  analyses  and  were  summarised  using 
descriptive statistics. As α-galactosidase A is a protein itself, protein-binding studies were not carried 
out. All male subjects included were , 19 to 48 years old and female patients were 20 to 66 years old. 
The SPC reflects the lack of pharmacokinetic data in children.Data from an ongoing study in children, 
in  which  the  pharmacokinetics  of  agalsidase  alfa  will  be  investigated,  will  be  submitted  post 
authorisation.  
In study TKT001, patients received a single dose of α-galactosidase A as an intravenous infusion (25 
ml over 20 min) at a dose of 0.007, 0.014, 0.028, 0.056 or 0.110 mg/kg. At each dose level 2 patients 
were  included  (male,  aged  21  -  46  years).  Blood  samples  were  collected  pre-dose  and  at  frequent 
intervals after dosing. In addition, a liver biopsy was taken pre-dose and 44 hours post-dose. 
After  single  dose  administration,  Cmax  and  AUC  of  α-galactosidase  A  increased  dose  proportionally 
over  the  dose  range  0.007  –  0.11  mg/kg.  This  indicates  that  α-galactosidase  A  clearance  is  not 
saturated at these dose levels.  Following a single intravenous dose of 0.2 mg/kg, agalsidase alfa had a 
biphasic  distribution and elimination  profile from the circulation.  Pharmacokinetic  parameters were 
not  significantly  different  between  male  and  female  patients.  Elimination  half-lives  were  108  ±  17 
minutes  in  males  compared  to  89  ±  28  minutes  in  females  and  volume  of  distribution  was 
approximately 17% body weight in both sexes.  Clearance normalised for body weight was 2.66 and 
2.10  ml/min/kg  for  males  and  females,  respectively.  Based  on  the  similarity  of  pharmacokinetic 
properties of agalsidase alfa in both males and females, tissue distribution in major tissues and organs 
is also expected to be comparable in male and female patients. 
Data  from  liver  biopsies  showed  a  high  uptake  in  liver  tissue  and  a  significantly  longer  half-life 
(greater than 24 hours) compared with plasma. The estimations of the in vivo tissue half-life are based 
on  limited  data  (single  liver  biopsy  specimens  taken  44  hours  post-infusion).  These  in  vivo  half  life 
data  were  used  to  justify  the  dosing  interval  and  the  choice  of  dosing  interval  should  therefore  be 
supported by additional data.  
The  applicant  has  committed  to  performing  a  Phase  IV  clinical  study  post-authorisation  to  evaluate 
alternative initial and maintenance dosing schedules of agalsidase alfa and to identify the optimal dose 
and dosing interval. No anti-human α-galactosidase A antibodies were detected in any of the patients 
following single dose administration in Protocol TKT001. 
In study TKT006, male Fabry patients were enrolled which completed the clinical trial TKT003. The 
subjects  received  a  single  dose  of  0.2  mg/kg  as  a  40  min  intravenous  infusion  every  other  week. 
Twenty-three patients could be evaluated. Ten of them received placebo in study TKT003 and 13 of 
them  received  12  biweekly  doses  of  0.2-mg/kg  agalsidase  alfa.  At  the  start  of  TKT006,  antibodies 
were detected in 10 of the 14 patients from the active treatment arm of Study TKT003 by at least 1 of 
the 4 assays utilised (ELISA, immunoprecipitation assay, in vitro neutralisation assay, internalisation 
assay).  
11/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A majority of the patients who had received agalsidase alfa in TKT003 showed lower AUC values as 
compared to those who received placebo, something that may be due to an increase in clearance. The 
inter-individual  variability  in  clearance  was  very  large  however.  In  all  subjects  with  altered 
pharmacokinetics,  antibodies  against  agalsidase  alfa,  which  could  serve  as  an  additional  clearance 
route,  were  detected.  Overall,  these  results  indicate  that  the  forming  of  antibodies  can  alter  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  α-galactosidase,  causing  a  higher  clearance  of  agalsidase  alfa  and  a  lower 
systemic  exposure.  However,  the  apparent  change  in  clearance  does  not  result  in  a  change  in  the 
elimination half-life. In addition, the applicant has provided sufficient data to show that the presence 
of antibodies did not diminish efficacy in any of these subjects (see clinical part). 
Interaction studies 
No  specific  in  vivo  clinical  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  Drug-drug  interactions 
arising from displacement of α-galactosidase and co-administered drugs - due to the influence of the 
cytochrome  P450 enzymes - are not expected. Therefore it is acceptable, that  no in vitro  interaction 
studies  are  carried  out  and  that  no  specific  in  vivo  clinical  drug  interaction  studies  have  been 
performed. However, there is a theoretical risk of inhibition of intracellular α-galactosidase activity by 
chloroquine, amiodarone, benoquin or gentamicin and this is appropriately reflected in section 4.5 of 
the  SPC.    In  addition,  any  evidence  of  potential  for  drug  interactions  will  be  reported  post-
authorisation. 
Special groups  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  agalsidase  alfa  was  not  altered  in  patients  with  end  stage  renal  failure  and 
dosage  adjustment  in  renal  impairment  is  not  necessary.  Renal  elimination  of  agalsidase  alfa  is 
considered to be a minor pathway for clearance.  
The  influence  of  hepatic  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  agalsidase  alfa  was  not  studied.  As 
metabolic degradation is expected to follow the pathways of other proteins, i.e. peptide hydrolysis, an 
impaired liver function is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of agalsidase alfa in a clinically 
significant way.  
The lack of data in children is sufficiently reflected in the SPC. 
Clinical Efficacy  
Dose response study  
TKT001 was an unblinded, single dose, dose escalation, safety study of 10 patients. A single infusion 
ranging from 0.007 to 0.11 mg/kg was shown to be safe and well tolerated in this study. 
The two major factors that determine the delivery of the enzyme to target tissues are hepatic clearance 
and  plasma  concentration.  Data  suggest  that  hepatic  uptake  of  the  enzyme  can  be  saturated  as 
proportionally  less  enzyme  is  taken  up  by  the  liver  with  increasing  dose.  A  dose  of  0.2  mg/kg  was 
chosen for the pivotal studies so that, according to the applicant, a larger fraction of the dose would 
potentially  be  available  to  other  target  organs.  An  alternate  week  schedule  was  chosen  for  patients’ 
convenience.  
Although  the  clinical  data  from  the  two  pivotal  clinical  studies  (TKT003  and  TKT005)  have  shown 
that  the  recommended  dose  is  efficacious  and  safe,  efficacy  of  other  doses  over  a  longer  time  of 
treatment  should  be  explored.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  performing  a  Phase  IV  clinical  study 
post-authorisation to evaluate alternative initial and maintenance dosing schedules of agalsidase alfa - 
after  clearance  of  the  accumulation  of  sphingolipids  -  and  to  identify  the  optimal  dose  and  dosing 
interval.  
Main clinical studies 
Description of the Studies 
Both  pivotal  phase  II  studies,  TKT003  and  TKT005,  were  randomised,  double  blind,  placebo 
controlled, single centre, parallel group studies designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of multiple 
intravenous doses of agalsidase alfa in male patients with confirmed Fabry Disease. Patients received 
agalsidase  alfa  at  doses  of  0  or  0.2  mg/kg  every  other  week  for  a  total  of  24  weeks  (12  doses). 
12/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
TKT006  is  a  single  centre,  open-label  maintenance  study  in  patients  who  had  completed  TKT003.    
12-month data from TKT006 were submitted. All patients from TKT005 have been entered into open-
label study TKT007; 6-month interim data from TKT007 are available. The inclusion criteria in both 
studies were comparable in that only patients with clinical and biochemical evidence of Fabry Disease 
were  eligible  with  the  additional  requirement  of  severe  neuropathic  pain  in  TKT003  and  left 
ventricular enlargement in TKT005. Patients in TKT003 have mild cardiac involvement and patients 
in TKT005 have little if any pain. 
The  clinical  trials  were  performed  according  to  GCP  standards  and  agreed  international  ethical 
principles. 
Primary endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  in  study  TKT003  was  the  effect  of  the  enzyme  replacement  on  serious 
debilitating  pain,  as  measured  by  the  brief  pain  inventory  BPI,  a  quantitative,  validated  pain 
assessment scale. Measuring the effect of enzyme replacement therapy on medication use for chronic 
neuropathic  pain,  renal  function,  kidney  pathology,  plasma,  urine  sediment  and  kidney  Gb3  content 
and cardiac structure and function also assessed efficacy. 
The primary end point in study TKT005 was the effect of enzyme replacement therapy on cardiac Gb3 
levels  as  determined  from  cardiac  biopsy  samples.  Secondary  endpoints  were  cardiac  mass  (MRI 
based assessment), renal function and Gb3 measurements in plasma and urine. 
Statistical analysis 
All statistical analyses of the efficacy data were carried out on all randomised patients (intent-to-treat 
analyses) and ANCOVA analyses were performed using the baseline value as the covariate for each 
analysis  unless  otherwise  stated.  Missing  data  was  handled  by  the  last  observation  carried  forward 
method. 
RESULTS 
Pain: 
During  the  first  24  weeks  (Study  TKT003)  there  was  a  progressive  effect  of  Replagal  on  pain 
compared to placebo (p=0.021). In the extension phase (TKT006), the patients in the original Replagal 
treatment  group  of  Study  TKT003  demonstrated  a  1.2  unit  decline  in  their  level  of  pain  (p=0.063). 
Placebo patients switched to active treatment had a statistically significant decline in pain (p=0.020). 
After  12  to  18  months  of  maintenance  therapy  for  all  patients  combined,  Replagal  significantly 
reduced pain by 1.9 units (p=0.003).  
Pain medication was evaluated in two ways: a time-to-event analysis where the event was a permanent 
discontinuation of neuropathic pain medications and the number of days off pain medication.  
There  was  a  statistically  significant  effect  of  Replagal  therapy  on  pain  medication  use  in  TKT003. 
Furthermore,  four  patients  in  the  active  treatment  group  were  able  to  discontinue  pain  medication 
permanently  as  compared  to  none  in  the  placebo  group  (p=0.031).  The  total  number  of  days  that 
patients  were  able  to  remain  off  pain  medications  in  the  Replagal  treatment  group  was  93.5 days 
compared  to  25.4  days  in  the  placebo  group  (p=0.013).  Further  reductions  in  the  use  of  pain 
medication were seen in the extension phase (TKT006). 
Renal function, renal histology and metabolic correction: 
The  effect  of  Replagal  on  renal  function  was  measured  using  creatinine  clearance  and  GFR 
(glomerular filtration rate, using inulin clearance). GFR and creatinine clearance measured at baseline 
were 77.2 ml/min and 101.3 ml/min respectively for the agalsidase group, compared to 90.9 ml/min 
and 111.6 ml/min in the placebo group. By the end of the study, patients in the Replagal group had a 
higher creatinine clearance at 104.7 ml/min versus 93.0 ml/min in the placebo group (p=0.016). In the 
placebo group, on average, patients suffered a 20 ml/min reduction of their GFR. The stabilisation of 
renal  function  for  Replagal  patients  was  maintained  during  the  extension  phase  in  TKT006.  In  the 
placebo-active  treatment  cross-over  group,  the  renal  function  improved  after  the  introduction  of 
Replagal.    After  12  to  18  months  of  maintenance  therapy,  Replagal  improved  renal  function  as 
measured by inulin based glomerular filtration rate by 8.7 ± 3.7 ml/min (p=0.030).   
The fraction of normal glomeruli at baseline as determined by histopathology was approximately 40% 
in the Replagal group  compared to 60% in the placebo  group.  In line with the improved functional 
parameters,  there  was  a  21%  increase  in  the  fraction  of  normal  glomeruli  and  33%  decrease  in 
mesangial widening following therapy with Replagal. In the placebo group, there was a 27% decrease 
13/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment  with  Replagal  resulted 
in  the  fraction  of  normal  glomeruli  and  a  69%  increase  in  mesangial  widening.  These  effects  were 
statistically significant thus demonstrating an improvement in renal pathology in the Replagal treated 
patients and a deterioration of renal pathology in the placebo treated patients.  
Compared  with  placebo, 
in  a  metabolic  correction  of 
glycosphingolipid  levels  in  plasma,  urine  sediment  and  in  kidney  biopsy  specimens  with  a  mean 
decrease within the range of 20-50%. After 12 to 18 months treatment further metabolic correction of 
glycosphingolipid levels was observed with 50 – 80% reduction in plasma and urine sediment 
Effects on cardiac Gb3, cardiac structure and function (TKT005): 
Compared  with  placebo,  treatment  with  Replagal  resulted  in  a  reduction  of  cardiac  Gb3  storage. 
Cardiac  Gb3  decreased  by  19%  in  the  active  treatment  group  compared  to  a  9%  increase  in  the 
placebo  group  (p=0.42).  Compared  with  placebo,  enzyme  replacement  induced  a  statistically 
significant (p=0.041) reduction in mean cardiac mass (4% decrease) on MRI compared with placebo 
(9% increase) after 6 months of Replagal treatment. Consistent with the effect on cardiac mass, there 
was  a  decrease  in  left  ventricular  end  diastolic  volume,  however  not  statistically  significant.  In 
TKT006  Replagal  effected  a  significant  reduction  in  cardiac  mass  after  12  –  18  months  of 
maintenance therapy (p<0.001). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
At  the  time  of  initial  authorisation  no  studies  in  special  patient  groups  had  been  performed  and  this 
was sufficiently reflected in the SPC. It is anticipated that children will be treated with agalsidase alfa 
and  the  applicant  is  currently  undertaking  studies  in  children  in  order  to  make  an  assessment  of  the 
benefit-risk ratio in this patient group possible.  
In view of the X-linked nature of Fabry Disease, textbook descriptions of female heterozygous carrier 
patients  have  minimized  the  burden  of  disease  compared  with  male  patients.    However,  current 
evidence  indicates  that  whilst  the  expression  of  the  disease  is  variable,  disease  manifestations  in 
female heterozygotes, in terms of symptoms and severity of disease, are very similar to male patients. 
To  study  the  effects  of  Repagal  in  females  an  open  label,  safety  and  pharmacokinetic  study  in  15 
patients (TKT014) treated for approximately 4 to 12 months with the recommended dose of 0.2 mg/kg 
every  other  week,  has  been  completed  post-authorisation  and  the  SPC  updated  accordingly.  
Secondary efficacy endpoints were more or less the same as used in the pivotal studies conducted in 
males and included assessment of effects on the heart, kidney, metabolism and quality of life.   
Results 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  Replagal  in  female  Fabry  patients  was  comparable  with  those  in  male 
patients. Similarly, the clinical effects seen in women are more or less comparable with those seen in 
men, suggesting comparable clinical efficacy. 
Eleven female patients received at least 6 months of therapy with Replagal, which is the same duration 
as the efficacy studies performed in male patients.  After six months of therapy, there were statistically 
significant  declines  in  left  ventricular  mass  (p=0.003),  left  ventricular  mass  index  (p=0.003), 
interventricular septal thickness (p < 0.001), and left ventricular posterior wall thickness (p=0.028). A 
significant increase in the internal diameter of the left ventricle in diastole translated into a slight, but 
not statistically significant, improvement in ejection fraction. After six to nine months of Replagal, the 
mean cardiac mass index in these patients fell from 148.1 to 123.8 and 122.5 g/m2 Weeks 27 and 41 
respectively.  These  changes  represented  an  approximately  15%  decline  in  cardiac  mass  in  these 
patients  over  six  months.  Improvements  in  cardiac  conduction  system  function  were  consistent  with 
the echocardiographic  results. After  six  months  of  treatment, there  was  an  8.7  msec  decline in QRS 
complex duration in the 11 female patients who completed Week 27. This was statistically significant 
(p = 0.007). 
Renal function remained stable in all 15 female patients throughout the course of therapy.  The effects 
of Replagal on measured glycolipid levels over time were variable, making assessment of an overall 
effect in female patients treated for varying lengths of time difficult to interpret. In some patients there 
were demonstrated improvements in plasma and urine sediment Gb3 levels, consistent with metabolic 
correction of the underlying enzymatic defect of Fabry Disease with Replagal therapy.  However, the 
value of glycolipid levels as potential surrogate markers of clinical efficacy has not been determined, 
and glycolipid levels may in fact be a poor predictor of clinical efficacy.   
14/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improvement  in  several  measures  of  quality  of  life  as  measured  by  the  SF-36  health  survey  was 
reported,  including  statistically  significant  improvements  in  physical  function,  role-physical,  role-
emotional, and general health scales.  The improvement in general health scale was noted as early as 
Week  13  and  persisted  at  Week  27.    These  results  suggest  that  the  improvements  in  cardiac  and 
metabolic function were translated into overall improvements in general health, which were reflected 
in statistically significant improvements in quality of life.   
Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure 
Safety data were reported on a total of 40 patients from 4 clinical studies. Study TKT007 was ongoing 
and interim safety data from the first 6 months of the trial were provided. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths  
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  were  headache,  influenza  like  symptoms,  back  pain, 
paraesthesia, pain, neuralgia, nausea, hyperkinesia, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, increased sweating and 
pharyngitis.  Most  AEs  occurred  in  a  similar  number  in  both  treatment  arms,  with  the  exception  of 
infusion  reactions  and  skeletal  pain,  which  occurred  more  frequently  in  patients  who  received  the 
active treatment.  Infusion reactions, dizziness, fever, flushing and nausea were assessed as probably 
or possibly related to the study drug.  
There were no treatment related deaths reported in any of the studies. In TKT003 a total of 7 serious 
adverse events were reported for four patients on agalsidase alfa: two infusion reactions, two cases of 
fever  and  one  injection  site  bleeding  related  to  the  renal  biopsy  procedure,  one  chest  pain,  one 
decreased  hearing  and  one  case  of  anemia.  The  infusion  reactions  and  one  of  the  two  fever  reports 
were classified as possibly or probably related to the study drug.  
All  serious  adverse  events  resolved  except  for  hearing  and  vestibular  disturbances  in  2  patients  and 
these are known complications of Fabry Disease. Among the placebo treated patients, two patients had 
serious  adverse  events  reported;  one  patient  developed  renal  failure  and  required  peritoneal  dialysis 
and  one  case  of  constipation  and  abdominal  pain.  No  serious  adverse  events  considered  related  to 
treatment were reported in TKT005 or in the extension phase of the studies. 
Infusion reactions 
With the recommended 40-minute infusion, the incidence of the infusion reactions was less than 10%. 
The reactions were mild – symptoms have included rigors (chills), facial flushing and back pain- and 
controllable by administration of low dose anti-histamines and low dose corticosteroids. The infusion 
reactions  were  not  accompanied  by  respiratory  symptoms,  changes  in  vital  signs,  or  urticaria.  All 
patients were able to continue the infusion, despite the infusion reactions. 
Antibody formation 
In  total,  22  of  the  40  male  patients  who  received  agalsidase  alfa  in  the  4  multidose  studies  have 
developed a low titer IgG antibody response. These IgG antibodies were measured by at least one of 
the  four  assays  utilised  (ELISA,  immunoprecipitation,  in  vitro  neutralisation  of  enzyme  activity,  or 
internalisation into  normal human fibroblasts). There is evidence for development  of immunological 
tolerance to agalsidase alfa, in that these antibodies became unmeasurable or antibody titres fell in 18 
patients who developed antibodies. The presence of serum antibodies to agalsidase alfa has not been 
associated  with  clinically significant  adverse  events  or  any  effect  on  clinical  efficacy.  In  the  studies 
conducted to date there has been no  correlation between antibody status and infusion reactions; this 
will continue to be monitored post-authorisation. These infusion reactions were not problematic since 
they either subsided or were manageable with premedications. There is no evidence of IgE-mediated 
hypersensitivity of immune complex disease. In addition, 18-month human safety data do not give rise 
to concerns  with reference to immune deposits such as serum sickness or vasculitis. No evidence of 
15/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immune  complex  deposition  –  based  on  electron  microscopy  -  was  found  in  the  kidney  following 
enzyme  replacement  in  a  limited  study  of  antibody  positive  patients.  No  IgE,  IgA  or  IgM  mediated 
antibody responses were observed.  
Laboratory findings 
No unexpected laboratory findings were reported. The various abnormal findings could be explained 
as being manifestations of Fabry disease. 
Safety in special populations 
No studies in special populations such as children or patients over the age of 65 were submitted and 
this  has  been  sufficiently  reflected  in  the  SPC.  Because  it  is  to  be  expected  that  children  will  be 
treated, this should be considered an omission in the dossier. Studies in children have been initiated  in 
order to make an assessment of the benefit-risk ratio possible for children.  
Study TKT014 in female patients showed there were no significant gender related safety differences 
and  the  adverse  events  profile  emerging  from  the  submitted  data  was  more  or  less  comparable  with 
that seen in males, with a higher reported incidence of headache in females compared to males.  The 
SPC has been updated to include the safety experience in females accordingly. No infusion reactions 
were  reported  in  females  and  there  was  no  evidence  of  the  development  an  antibody  reponse.    The 
comparative lack of immunogenicity in female patients compared to males suggests that Replagal is 
recognised by the immune system as a native protein.  This may reflect that the presence of a small 
amount of residual enzyme in female patients infers some degree of immunological protection.  There 
were no treatment related deaths reported during the study.  
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
The  results  show  that  neuropathic  pain  in  Fabry  Disease  is  reduced  but  not  abolished  by  Replagal 
treatment after 12 – 18 months of treatment. The benefit is maintained while on treatment. 
The  trial  data  showed  that  accumulation  of  sphingolipids  could  be  found  in  both  cardiac  and  renal 
parenchymal cells at baseline.  
Reduced levels of Gb3 were shown in plasma, urine sediment and kidney compared with baseline. It is 
reasonable  to  conclude  that  the  results  of  the  primary  and  secondary  end  points  in  both  trials 
consistently demonstrate that there is a benefit from treatment. The exact magnitude of pain reduction 
and the effect on reversibility in renal pathology are more difficult to estimate due to methodological 
limitations. There is an initial effect in stabilising renal function followed by improvement with long-
term therapy. There is also an effect on reducing the  mean cardiac  mass (on MRI) and LVEDV but 
how that translates to improvement in function and morbidity remains to be defined. Any conclusion 
on metabolic corrections can only be drawn in comparison with the “normal” ranges when steady state 
levels are attained.   
The  overall  conclusion  that  can  be  drawn  is  that  all  the  chosen  assessment  parameters  consistently 
show the following differences in the effects of Replagal  compared with placebo, namely reduction in 
pain, improvement in cardiomyopathy, initial stabilisation followed by improvement in renal function, 
and some metabolic correction. It is difficult, given the limited data available, to quantify the precise 
magnitude  of  effect  of  agalsidase  alfa  and  to  estimate  the  relative  amounts  of  glycosphingolipid 
deposits cleared from different cell types.  
Treatment before symptoms develop should be considered because severe end organ damage may not 
be expected  to be fully reversible. Although renal and cardiac function can be considered clinically 
important  endpoints,  death  -  the  most  important  clinical  endpoint  –  should  be  considered,  since 
patients with Fabry disease are known to die prematurely from cardiac disease, renal insufficiency or 
cerebrovascular  disease.  Furthermore,  potential  surrogate  markers  for  the  assessment  of  progress  of 
disease should be explored further and validated.  
16/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on Clinical Safety 
The applicant has submitted data with a maximum follow-up of 18 months. The majority of adverse 
events were considered mild to moderate in severity in both treatment groups in the controlled trials. 
The  majority  of  adverse  events  were  considered  unlikely  to  be  treatment  related  except  for  infusion 
reactions.  A greater number of patients experienced severe AEs in the placebo group compared with 
the agalsidase alfa treatment groups in the two controlled trials.  
Safety data show an acceptable adverse event profile and tolerability to Replagal. However, although 
not  problematic  the  infusion  reactions  and  anti-agalsidase  antibody  formation  give  rise  to  some 
concern  and  should  be  paid  special  attention  in  post-authorisation  studies.  Mild  infusion  reactions 
accounted  for  the  commonest  treatment  related  serious  adverse  events.  Infusion  reactions  are  easily 
managed  and  may  be  prevented  with  appropriate  oral  medications  such  as  anti-histamines  prior  to 
infusion. 
Antibodies to α-galactosidase A developed in over 50% of patients but immunological tolerance could 
be  demonstrated  in  over  80%  affected  within  one  year.  No  alteration  to  the  treatment  schedule  was 
required in the studies. The presence of these antibodies was not associated with clinically significant 
adverse events or any effect on clinical efficacy. The applicant will provide information on the long 
term  monitoring  for  the  presence  of  antibodies  to  agalsidase  alfa  and  their  impact  on  safety  and 
efficacy , as well as any clinical evidence of immune complex disease post-authorisation. In addition, 
any evidence of potential for drug interactions will be reported.   
Safety data in patients without sphingolipid accumulation are lacking. These data should be submitted 
in order to assess safety after longer treatment.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of Replagal is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Some  additional  points  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  post  authorisation 
commitments. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Viral safety and batch to 
batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  tests  will  be  performed  according  to  the 
agreed specifications. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the  primary pharmacodynamic and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided adequate evidence for 
efficacy of Replagal in decreasing the sphingolipid accumulation in the key target organs. Because the 
accumulation  of  sphingolipids  is  the  cause  for  the  disease  and  its  clinical  presentation,  the 
pharmacodynamic results indicate that a possible clinical improvement or stabilisation among patients 
is to be expected. Results from the toxicology programme did not raise particular concerns for the safe 
use  of  agalsidase  alfa.  The  lack  of  data  on  reproduction  toxicity  and  lactation  is  considered  a 
drawback. This has been adequately reflected in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
The  results  from  clinical  studies  support  the  use  of  Replagal  in  the  approved  indication  long-term 
treatment  of  Fabry  disease  (α-galactosidase  A  deficiency).  The  clinical  data  from  the  two  pivotal 
clinical  studies  have  shown  that  the  recommended  dose  is  effective  and  safe.  The  applicant  has 
committed to evaluate alternative initial and maintenance dosing schedules. The indication for which 
the  medical  product  in  question  is  intended  is  encountered  so  rarely  that  the  applicant  cannot 
reasonably  be  expected  to  provide  comprehensive  evidence/data  on  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the 
medicinal  product.  In  order  to  collect  additional  long-term  data,  the  applicant  has  committed  to 
complete a programme of clinical studies post-authorisation, the results of which shall form the basis 
of the annual reassessment of the benefit/risk profile.  
17/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The  safety  data  demonstrates  that  Replagal  is  safe.  Safety  data  show  an  acceptable  adverse  event 
profile  and  reasonable  tolerability  to  Replagal.  However,  although  not  problematic  the  infusion 
reactions  and  anti-agalsidase  alfa  antibody  formation  give  rise  to  some  concern  and  should  be  paid 
special  attention  in  post-authorisation  studies.  Safety  data  in  patients  without  sphingolipid 
accumulation are lacking. The period of agalsidase alfa treatment in the clinical trials does not reflect 
the  life-long  treatment  for  necessary  for  Fabry  disease.  The  number  of  patients  who  have  received 
agalsidase alfa is relatively small, and thus the safety database is not as large as is often the case for 
new medicinal products. However, since the structure of agalsidase alfa is very similar to the enzyme 
produced  naturally  in  humans,  agalsidase  alfa  is  not  likely  to  cause  unexpected  adverse  events.  In 
order  to  collect  additional  long-term  data,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  complete  a  programme  of 
clinical studies post-authorisation, the results of which shall form the basis of the annual reassessment 
of the benefit/risk profile.  
Benefit/Risk Assessment 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  supplementary  documentation  provided  by  the  applicant,  it  was 
concluded that further data was needed to support the quality of the product. Although the applicant 
could address the majority of these questions as post-authorisation commitments, a number of issues 
were identified that needed further clarification. At an oral explanation before the CPMP, the applicant 
focused on the outstanding chemical, pharmaceutical and biological issues.  
On the basis of the available information from on-going studies and on relevant commitments from the 
applicant, these issues were considered resolved. 
A marketing authorisation for Replagal has been granted under exceptional circumstances, subject to 
fulfilling  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  follow-up  measures  and  clinical  obligations 
undertaken by the applicant. The indication for which the  medical product in question is intended is 
encountered  so  rarely  that  the  applicant  cannot  reasonably  be  expected  to  provide  comprehensive 
evidence/data on the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product.  
In  view  of  the  limited  clinical  data  available,  section  5.1  of  the  SPC  has  been  expanded  in  order  to 
give the treating physician a clearer overview of the anticipated clinical effects of Replagal.   
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Replagal for use as long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients 
with a confirmed diagnosis of Fabry Disease (α-galactosidase A deficiency) was favourable. 
18/18 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
