ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Replagal 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion.
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
1 ml of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 1 mg of agalsidase alfa*.
Each vial of 3.5 ml of concentrate contains 3.5 mg of agalsidase alfa.
*agalsidase alfa is the human protein α-galactosidase A produced in a human cell line by genetic 
engineering technology.
Excipient(s) with known effect
This medicinal product contains 14.2 mg sodium per vial.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Concentrate for solution for infusion.
A clear and colourless solution.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Replagal is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients with a confirmed 
diagnosis of Fabry Disease (α-galactosidase A deficiency).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Replagal treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of patients 
with Fabry Disease or other inherited metabolic diseases.
Posology
Replagal is administered at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg body weight every other week by intravenous infusion 
over 40 minutes. 
Special populations
Elderly patients
Studies in patients over the age of 65 years have not been performed and no dosage regimen can 
presently be recommended in these patients as safety and efficacy have not yet been established.
Patients with hepatic impairment
No studies have been performed in patients with hepatic impairment.
Patients with renal impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with renal impairment.
2
The presence of extensive renal damage (eGFR < 60mL/min) may limit the renal response to enzyme 
replacement therapy. Limited data are available in patients on dialysis or post-kidney transplantation, 
no dose adjustment is recommended.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Replagal in children aged 0-6 years has not yet been established. Currently 
available data are described in section 5.1 but no recommendation on posology can be made.
In clinical studies of children (7-18 years) who received Replagal 0.2 mg/kg every other week, no
unexpected safety issues were encountered (see section 5.1).
Method of administration
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
Administer the infusion solution over a period of 40 minutes using an intravenous line with an integral 
filter. 
Do not infuse Replagal concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other agents.
Replagal home infusion, and administration by the patient in presence of a responsible adult or 
administration by the patient’s caregiver (self-administration), may be considered for patients who are 
tolerating their infusions well. The decision to have a patient move to home infusion and/or
self-administration should be made after evaluation and recommendation by the treating physician. 
Appropriate training should be given by the treating physician and/or nurse to the patient and/or 
caregiver prior to initiation of self-administration. Dose and infusion rate should remain constant 
while at home, and not be changed without supervision of a healthcare professional.
Self-administration should be closely followed by the treating physician.
Any patients experiencing adverse events during the home infusion/self-administration need to 
immediately stop the infusion process and seek the attention of a healthcare professional. Subsequent 
infusions may need to occur in a clinical setting.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Idiosyncratic infusion related reactions
13.7% of adult patients treated with Replagal in clinical trials have experienced idiosyncratic infusion 
related reactions. Four of 17 (23.5%) paediatric patients ≥ 7 years of age enrolled in clinical trials 
experienced at least one infusion reaction over a period of 4.5 years of treatment (mean duration of 
approx. 4 years). Three of 8 (37.5%) paediatric patients < 7 years of age experienced at least one 
infusion related reaction over a mean observation time of 4.2 years. The most common symptoms 
have been rigors, headache, nausea, pyrexia, flushing and fatigue. Serious infusion reactions have been
reported uncommonly; symptoms reported include pyrexia, rigors, tachycardia, urticaria, 
nausea/vomiting, angioneurotic oedema with throat tightness, stridor, and swollen tongue. Other 
infusion-related symptoms may include dizziness and hyperhidrosis. A review of cardiac events 
3
showed that infusion reactions may be associated with hemodynamic stress triggering cardiac events 
in patients with pre-existing cardiac manifestations of Fabry disease. 
The onset of infusion related reactions has generally occurred within the first 2-4 months after 
initiation of treatment with Replagal although later onset (after 1 year) has been reported as well. 
These effects have decreased with time. If mild or moderate acute infusion reactions occur, medical 
attention must be sought immediately, and appropriate actions instituted. The infusion can be 
temporarily interrupted (5 to 10 minutes) until symptoms subside and the infusion may then be
restarted. Mild and transient effects may not require medical treatment or discontinuation of the 
infusion. In addition, oral or intravenous pre-treatment with antihistamines and/or corticosteroids, 
from 1 to 24 hours prior to infusion may prevent subsequent reactions in those cases where 
symptomatic treatment was required.
Hypersensitivity reactions
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported. If severe hypersensitivity or anaphylactic reactions 
occur, the administration of Replagal should be discontinued immediately and appropriate treatment 
initiated. The current medical standards for emergency treatment are to be observed.
Antibodies to the protein
As with all protein pharmaceutical products, patients may develop antibodies to the protein. A low 
titre IgG antibody response has been observed in approximately 24% of the male patients treated with 
Replagal. Based on limited data this percentage has been found to be lower (7%) in the male paediatric 
population. These IgG antibodies appeared to develop following approximately 3-12 months of 
treatment. After 12 to 54 months of therapy, 17% of Replagal treated patients were still antibody 
positive whereas 7% showed evidence for the development of immunologic tolerance, based on the 
disappearance of IgG antibodies over time. The remaining 76% were antibody negative throughout. In 
paediatric patients > 7 years of age, 1/16 male patients tested positive for IgG anti-agalsidase alfa 
antibodies during the study. No increase in the incidence of adverse events was detected for this 
patient. In paediatric patients < 7 years of age, 0/7 male patients tested positive for IgG anti-agalsidase 
alfa antibodies. IgE antibody positivity not associated with anaphylaxis has been reported in clinical 
trials in a very limited number of patients.
Patients with renal impairment
The presence of extensive renal damage may limit the renal response to enzyme replacement therapy, 
possibly due to underlying irreversible pathological changes. In such cases, the loss of renal function 
remains within the expected range of the natural progression of disease.
Sodium
This medicinal product contains 14.2 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 0.7% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Replagal should not be co-administered with chloroquine, amiodarone, benoquin or gentamicin since 
these substances have the potential to inhibit intra-cellular α-galactosidase activity.
As α-galactosidase A is itself an enzyme, it would be an unlikely candidate for cytochrome P450 
mediated drug-drug interactions. In clinical studies, neuropathic pain medicinal products (such as 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, and gabapentin) were administered concurrently to most patients without 
any evidence of interaction.
4
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There is very limited data on pregnancies exposed to Replagal. Animal studies do not indicate direct 
or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy or embryonic/foetal development when exposed 
during organogenesis (see section 5.3). Caution should be exercised when prescribing to pregnant 
women.
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether Replagal is excreted in human milk. Caution should be exercised when 
prescribing to breast-feeding women.
Fertility
No effects on male fertility were seen in reproductive studies in male rats.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Replagal has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of safety profile
The most commonly reported adverse reactions were infusion associated reactions, which occurred in 
13.7% of adult patients treated with Replagal in clinical trials. Most undesirable effects were mild to 
moderate in severity.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Table 1 lists adverse reactions reported for the 344 patients treated with Replagal in clinical trials, 
including 21 patients with history of end stage renal disease, 30 paediatric patients (≤ 18 years of age) 
and 17 female patients, and from post-marketing spontaneous reports. Information is presented by 
system organ class and frequency (very common ≥ 1/10; common ≥ 1/100 to < 1/10; uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100). The adverse reactions categorized as incidence “not known (cannot be
estimated from the available data)” are derived from post-marketing spontaneous reports. Within each 
frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The 
occurrence of an event in a single patient is defined as uncommon in view of the number of patients 
treated. A single patient could be affected by several adverse reactions. 
The following adverse reactions have been identified for agalsidase alfa:
Table 1
System organ class
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Very common
peripheral 
oedema
headache, 
dizziness,
neuropathic 
pain, tremor,
hypoesthesia,
paraesthesia
Adverse reaction
Common
Uncommon
Not known
dysgeusia, 
hypersomnia, 
parosmia
lacrimation 
increased
corneal reflex 
decreased,
5
Table 1
System organ class
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders
Cardiac disorders
Very common
tinnitus
palpitations
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic,
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
dyspnoea, 
cough,
nasopharyngitis, 
pharyngitis
vomiting,
nausea, 
abdominal pain, 
diarrhoea
rash
Musculoskeletal, 
connective tissue and 
bone disorders
arthralgia, pain 
in limb, myalgia, 
back pain
Immune system 
disorders
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions
chest pain, 
rigors, pyrexia, 
pain, asthenia, 
fatigue
See also section 4.4.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Adverse reaction
Common
Uncommon
Not known
tachyarrhythmia
myocardial 
ischaemia, 
heart failure,
ventricular
extrasystoles,
oxygen saturation 
decreased, throat
secretion 
increased
angioneurotic 
oedema, livedo 
reticularis
sensation of 
heaviness
anaphylactic 
reaction, 
injection site rash
tinnitus 
aggravated
tachycardia,
atrial fibrillation
hypertension, 
hypotension, 
flushing
hoarseness, 
throat tightness, 
rhinorrhoea
abdominal 
discomfort
urticaria, 
erythema, 
pruritus, acne,
hyperhidrosis
musculoskeletal 
discomfort, 
peripheral 
swelling, joint 
swelling
hypersensitivity
chest tightness, 
fatigue 
aggravated, 
feeling hot, 
feeling cold, 
influenza like 
illness, 
discomfort,
malaise
Infusion related reactions reported in the post-marketing setting (also see section 4.4) may include 
cardiac events such as cardiac arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation, ventricular extrasystoles, 
tachyarrhythmia), myocardial ischemia, and heart failure in patients with Fabry disease involving the 
heart structures. The most common infusion related reactions were mild and include rigors, pyrexia, 
flushing, headache, nausea, dyspnoea, tremor, and pruritus. Infusion-related symptoms may also 
include dizziness, hyperhidrosis, hypotension, cough, vomiting and fatigue. Hypersensitivity, 
including anaphylaxis, has been reported.
6
Paediatric population
Adverse drug reactions reported in the paediatric population (children and adolescents) were, in
general, similar to those reported in adults. However, infusion related reactions (pyrexia, dyspnoea, 
chest pain) and pain exacerbation occurred more frequently.
Other special populations
Patients with renal disease
Adverse drug reactions reported in patients with history of end stage renal disease were similar to 
those reported in the general patient population.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
In clinical trials doses up to 0.4 mg/kg weekly were used, and their safety profile was not different 
from the recommended dose of 0.2 mg/kg biweekly.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other alimentary tract and metabolism products - Enzymes. ATC code: 
A16AB03.
Mechanism of action
Fabry Disease is a glycosphingolipid storage disorder that is caused by deficient activity of the 
lysosomal enzyme α-galactosidase A, resulting in accumulation of globotriaosylceramide (Gb3 or 
GL-3, also known as ceramidetrihexoside (CTH)), the glycosphingolipid substrate for this enzyme. 
Agalsidase alfa catalyses the hydrolysis of Gb3, cleaving a terminal galactose residue from the 
molecule. Treatment with the enzyme has been shown to reduce accumulation of Gb3 in many cell 
types including endothelial and parenchymal cells. Agalsidase alfa has been produced in a human cell 
line to provide for a human glycosylation profile that can influence uptake by mannose-6-phosphate 
receptors on the surface of target cells. The selection of 0.2 mg/kg dose (infused over 40 minutes) for 
the registration clinical studies was intended to temporarily saturate the ability of the
mannose-6-phosphate receptors to internalize the agalsidase alfa in the liver and allow distribution of 
enzyme to other relevant organ tissues. Data with patients indicates that at least 0.1 mg/kg is required 
to achieve a pharmacodynamics response.
Clinical efficacy and safety
The safety and efficacy of Replagal was assessed in two randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies and open label extension studies, in a total of forty patients with a diagnosis of Fabry Disease 
based on clinical and biochemical evidence. Patients received the recommended dosage of 0.2 mg/kg 
of Replagal. Twenty-five patients completed the first study and entered an extension study. After 
6 months of therapy there was a significant reduction in pain in the Replagal treated patients compared 
with placebo (p=0.021), as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory (a validated pain measurement 
scale). This was associated with a significant reduction in chronic neuropathic pain medication use and 
7
number of days on pain medication. In subsequent studies, in male paediatric patients above the age 
of 7, a reduction in pain was observed after 9 and 12 months of Replagal therapy compared to 
pre-treatment baseline. This pain reduction persisted through 4 years of Replagal therapy in 9 patients 
(in patients 7 – 18 years of age).
Twelve to 18 months of treatment with Replagal resulted in improvement in quality of life (QoL), as 
measured by validated instruments. 
After 6 months of therapy, Replagal stabilised renal function compared with a decline in placebo 
treated patients. Kidney biopsy specimens revealed a significant increase in the fraction of normal 
glomeruli and a significant decrease in the fraction of glomeruli with mesangial widening in patients 
treated with Replagal in contrast to the patients treated with placebo. After 12 to 18 months of 
maintenance therapy, Replagal improved renal function as measured by inulin based glomerular 
filtration rate by 8.7 ± 3.7 ml/min. (p=0.030). Longer term therapy (48-54 months) resulted in 
stabilisation of GFR in male patients with normal baseline GFR (≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m2) and with mild 
to moderate renal dysfunction (GFR 60 to < 90 mL/min/1.73 m2), and in slowing of the rate of decline 
in renal function and progression to end-stage renal disease in male Fabry patients with more severe 
renal dysfunction (GFR 30 to < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2).
In a second study, fifteen patients with left ventricular hypertrophy completed a 6 month 
placebo-controlled study and entered an extension study. Treatment with Replagal resulted in an 
11.5 g decrease in left ventricular mass as measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the 
controlled study, while patients receiving placebo exhibited an increase in left ventricular mass of 
21.8 g. In addition, in the first study involving 25 patients, Replagal effected a significant reduction in 
cardiac mass after 12 to 18 months of maintenance therapy (p<0.001). Replagal was also associated 
with improved myocardial contractility, a decrease in mean QRS duration and a concomitant decrease 
in septal thickness on echocardiography. Two patients with right bundle branch block in the studies 
conducted reverted to normal following therapy with Replagal. Subsequent open label studies 
demonstrated significant reduction from baseline in left ventricular mass by echocardiography in both 
male and female Fabry patients over 24 to 36 months of Replagal treatment. The reductions in LV 
mass observed by echocardiography in both male and female Fabry patients over 24 to 36 months of 
Replagal treatment were associated with meaningful symptom improvement as measured using the 
NYHA and CCS in Fabry patients with severe heart failure or anginal symptoms at baseline.
Compared with placebo, treatment with Replagal also reduced accumulation of Gb3. After the first 6 
months of therapy mean decreases of approximately 20 - 50 % were observed in plasma, urine 
sediment, liver, kidney, and heart biopsy samples. After 12 to 18 months treatment a reduction of 
50 - 80% was observed in plasma and urine sediment. The metabolic effects were also associated with 
clinically significant weight gain, increased sweating, and increased energy. Consistent with the 
clinical effects of Replagal, treatment with the enzyme reduced accumulation of Gb3 in many cell 
types, including renal glomerular and tubular epithelial cells, renal capillary endothelial cells (cardiac 
and dermal capillary endothelial cells were not examined) and cardiac myocytes. In male paediatric 
Fabry patients plasma Gb3 decreased 40 - 50% after 6 months of Replagal therapy 0.2 mg/kg and this 
reduction persisted after a total 4 years of treatment in 11 patients.
Infusion of Replagal at home may be considered for patients who are tolerating their infusions well.
Paediatric population
In male paediatric Fabry patients ≥ 7 years of age, hyperfiltration can be the earliest manifestation of 
renal involvement in the disease. Reduction in their hypernormal eGFRs was observed within 
6 months of initiating Replagal therapy. After one year of treatment with agalsidase alfa 0.2 mg/kg 
every other week, the abnormally high eGFR decreased from 143.4 ± 6.8 to 
121.3 ± 5.6 mL/min/1.73 m2 in this subgroup and these eGFRs stabilized in the normal range during 
4 years of Replagal 0.2 mg/kg therapy, as did the eGFRs of the non-hyperfiltrators.
8
In male paediatric patients ≥ 7 years of age, heart rate variability was abnormal at baseline and 
improved after 6 months of Replagal therapy in 15 boys and the improvement was sustained through 
6.5 years of Replagal 0.2 mg/kg therapy in an open-label long-term extension study in 9 boys. Among 
9 boys with left ventricular mass (LVMI) indexed to height2.7 within the normal range for children 
(< 39 g/m2.7 in boys) at baseline, LVMI remained stable at levels below the left ventricular 
hypertrophy (LVH) threshold throughout the 6.5 years of treatment. In a second study, in 14 patients 
≥ 7 years of age, the results regarding heart rate variability were consistent with previous findings. In 
this study, only one patient had LVH at baseline and remained stable over time.
For patients between 0 and 7 years of age, limited data indicate no specific safety issues.
Study in patients switching from agalsidase beta to Replagal (agalsidase alfa)
100 patients [(naïve (n=29); or previously treated with agalsidase beta who switched to Replagal 
(n=71)) were treated for up to 30 months in an open label, uncontrolled study. An analysis showed that 
serious adverse events were reported in 39.4% of those patients who switched from agalsidase beta 
compared to 31.0% in those who were naïve to therapy prior to study entry. Patients switched from 
agalsidase beta to Replagal had a safety profile consistent with that observed in other clinical 
experience. Infusion related reactions have been  experienced by 9 patients of the naïve population 
(31.0%) compared to 27 patients of the switched population (38.0%). 
Study with various dosing regimen
-
label randomised study, there were no statistically significant differences between adult 
In an open
patients treated for 52 weeks with 0.2 mg/kg intravenously every other week (n=20) and those treated 
with 0.2 mg/kg weekly (n=19) in mean change from baseline LVMI or other endpoints (cardiac 
functional status, renal function, and pharmacodynamic activity). In each treatment group, LVMI 
remained stable over the treatment period of the study. The overall incidence of SAEs by treatment 
group did not show any obvious effect of treatment regimen on the SAE profile of the different 
treatment groups.
Immunogenicity
Antibodies to agalsidase alfa have not been shown to be associated with any clinically significant 
effects on safety (e.g., infusion reactions) or efficacy.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Single doses ranging from 0.007 - 0.2 mg enzyme per kg body weight were administered to adult male 
patients as 20 - 40 minute intravenous infusions while female patients received 0.2 mg enzyme per kg 
body weight as 40 minute infusions. The pharmacokinetic properties were essentially unaffected by 
the dose of the enzyme. Following a single intravenous dose of 0.2 mg/kg, agalsidase alfa had a 
biphasic distribution and elimination profile from the circulation. Pharmacokinetic parameters were 
not significantly different between male and female patients. Elimination half-lives were 108  17 
minutes in males compared to 89  28 minutes in females and volume of distribution was 
approximately 17% body weight in both sexes. Clearance normalised for body weight was 2.66 and 
2.10 ml/min/kg for males and females, respectively. Based on the similarity of pharmacokinetic 
properties of agalsidase alfa in both males and females, tissue distribution in major tissues and organs 
is also expected to be comparable in male and female patients.
Following six months of Replagal treatment 12 of 28 male patients showed altered pharmacokinetics 
including an apparent increase in clearance. These changes were associated with the development of 
low titre antibodies to agalsidase alfa but no clinically significant effects on safety or efficacy were 
observed in the patients studied.
9
Based on the analysis of pre- and post-dose liver biopsies in males with Fabry Disease, the tissue 
half-life has been estimated to be in excess of 24 hours and hepatic uptake of the enzyme estimated to 
be 10% of administered dose.
Agalsidase alfa is a protein. It is not expected to bind to proteins. It is expected that its metabolic 
degradation will follow the pathways of other proteins, i.e., peptide hydrolysis. Agalsidase alfa is 
unlikely to be a candidate for drug-drug interactions.
Renal impairment
Renal elimination of agalsidase alfa is considered to be a minor clearance pathway since 
pharmacokinetic parameters are not altered by impaired renal function.  
Hepatic impairment
As metabolism is expected to occur by peptide hydrolysis, impaired liver function is not expected to 
affect the pharmacokinetics of agalsidase alfa in a clinically significant manner.
Paediatric population
In children (aged 7-18 years), Replagal administered at 0.2 mg/kg was cleared faster from the 
circulation than in adults. Mean clearance of Replagal in children aged (7-11 years), in adolescents 
(aged 12-18 years), and adults was 4.2 ml/min/kg, 3.1 ml/min/kg, and 2.3 ml/min/kg, respectively. 
Pharmacodynamic data suggest that at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg Replagal, the reductions in plasma Gb3 are 
more or less comparable between adolescents and young children (see section 5.1).
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of repeated dose toxicity. 
Genotoxic and carcinogenic potential are not expected. Reproduction toxicity studies in female rats 
and rabbits have shown no effect on pregnancy or the developing foetus. No studies have been 
conducted with respect to parturition or peri/post-natal development. It is not known whether Replagal 
crosses the placenta.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Sodium phosphate monobasic, monohydrate
Polysorbate 20
Sodium chloride
Sodium hydroxide
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
In the absence of compatibility studies this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years.
Chemical and physical in use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 25 °C. 
10
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8 °C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2 C – 8 C). 
6.5 Nature and contents of container
3.5 ml of concentrate for solution for infusion in a 5 ml vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (fluoro-resin 
coated butyl rubber), a one piece seal (aluminium) and flip-off cap. Pack sizes of 1, 4 or 10 vials.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling






Calculate the dose and number of Replagal vials needed.
Any dose change should occur only at the direction of the treating physician.
Dilute the total volume of Replagal concentrate required in 100 ml of 9 mg/ml (0.9%) sodium 
chloride solution for infusion. Care must be taken to ensure the sterility of the prepared 
solutions since Replagal does not contain any preservative or bacteriostatic agent; aseptic 
technique must be observed. Once diluted, the solution should be mixed gently but not shaken.
Since no preservative is present, it is recommended that administration is started as soon as 
possible after dilution (see section 6.3).
The solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration.
For single use only. Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance
with local requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza 
50–58 Baggot Street Lower 
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/01/189/001-003
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 03/08/2001
Date of last renewal: 28/07/2006
11
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/.
12
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES
13
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance
Shire Human Genetic Therapies Inc.,
205 Alewife Brook Parkway
Cambridge, MA 02138
USA
Shire Human Genetic Therapies Inc.,
400 Shire Way
Lexington, MA 02421
USA
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza
50–58 Baggot Street Lower
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited
Block 2 & 3 Miesian Plaza
50–58 Baggot Street Lower
Dublin 2
Ireland
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, Section 4.2)
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit PSURs for this product in accordance with the 
requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal.
14
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorization holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency. 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
If the dates of submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time.

Additional risk minimisation measures
The MAH must agree on the content and format of the educational materials for use of Replagal in
self-administration, including communication media, distribution modalities and any other aspects of 
the programme, with the National Competent Authority.
The educational materials for the use of Replagal are aimed at providing guidance on how to manage 
risks of infusion related reactions and medication errors due to self-administration/home infusion.
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Replagal is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals, and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe, dispense or use Replagal have access 
to/are provided with the following educational package:
 HCP Guide for Self-administration of Replagal; 

Patient/Caregiver/HCP Guide for Self-administration of Replagal;
The HCP Guide for Self-Administration of Replagal should contain the following key elements:
 Checklist to determine patient eligibility prior to initiation of self-administration of the home 
infusion.
o Patient has had a sufficient number of consecutive well-tolerated infusions (no IRRs)
in the clinic.
o Patient considered medically stable.
o Patient has a history of adherence to infusion schedule.
o Patient has agreed to receive Replagal at home.
o The patient and/or caregiver have been trained about the associated risks, the possible 
complications, and the requirement to maintain open communication with the treating 
physician, including emergency contact details.
o The patient and/or caregiver appear adequately trained and aware of the risks of self-
administration.
o The patient’s home is safe (clean, hygienic, storage area for supplies, drug and 
emergency medication) and adequately equipped.
o Rapid and reliable communication measures have been established, just in case 
problems occur.
 The HCP should ensure that the medications are prescribed and readily available to mitigate any
risk that occur in case of an emergency, if necessary, and the patient/caregiver knows how to 
utilise. 
 The importance of the patient always having a caregiver or responsible adult nearby who is 
capable of alerting you, the treating physician or emergency medical care if needed.
15


Provide the patient/caregiver with detailed training on how to identify and manage IRRs, 
hypersensitivity reactions, medication errors and AEs.
Provide the patient/caregiver detailed training about the administration procedures of Replagal as 
well as, the dosage and infusion rate which must be included in the Infusion Diary.
 Emphasize the need for the patient/caregiver to communicate to you, the treating physician, any 
events during and after the infusion, and to update the Infusion Diary.
 The Infusion Diary must be used as a back and forth communication tool throughout the course of 
self-administration of Replagal.
The Patient/Caregiver/HCP Guide for Self-administration of Replagal should contain the following 
key elements:
 The importance of the patient always having a caregiver or responsible adult nearby who is 
capable of alerting the treating physician or emergency medical care if needed.
 A description of the correct preparation and administration technique for Replagal, including 
proper aseptic technique.
Importance of adhering to the dosing and infusion rate prescribed by the physician.

 Any medication prescribed by your physician for pre-medication or treatment of any IRRs should 
be available at home. Importance to follow on any instructions regarding pre-medication or 
treatment of serious IRRs.
Information on signs and symptoms related to infusion-related reactions and recommended actions 
for the management of the adverse drug reactions (ADRs) when symptoms occur.

 The Infusion diary must serve as a record of the recommended Replagal infusions and facilitate 
regular monitoring of the patient’s health status to document any product related IRRs, including 
allergic-type hypersensitivity reactions before, during or after the infusion and any medication 
errors.
E.
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES
Not applicable
16
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
17
A. LABELLING
18
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON / 3.5 ML VIAL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Replagal 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
agalsidase alfa
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
One vial contains 3.5 mg of agalsidase alfa
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Sodium phosphate monobasic, monohydrate 
polysorbate 20
sodium chloride
sodium hydroxide
water for injections
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
1 x 3.5 ml per vial concentrate for solution for infusion
4 x 3.5 ml per vial concentrate for solution for infusion
10 x 3.5 ml per vial concentrate for solution for infusion
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Intravenous use
Read the package leaflet before use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
19
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza 
50–58 Baggot Street Lower 
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)   
EU/1/01/189/001
EU/1/01/189/002
EU/1/01/189/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
20
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL 3.5 ML PRESENTATION
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Replagal 1 mg/ml sterile concentrate
agalsidase alfa
IV
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
3.5 ml
6.
OTHER
Store in a refrigerator
21
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
22
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Replagal 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
agalsidase alfa
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them,
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What Replagal is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you are given Replagal
3.
4.
5.
6.
How Replagal is given
Possible side effects
How to store Replagal
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Replagal is and what it is used for
The active substance in Replagal is agalsidase alfa (1 mg/ml). Agalsidase alfa is a form of the human 
enzyme α-galactosidase. It is produced by switching on the gene for α-galactosidase A in cells. The 
enzyme is then removed from the cells and made into a sterile concentrate for solution for infusion.
Replagal is used to treat adult patients, as well as adolescents and children from the age of 7, with 
confirmed diagnosis of Fabry Disease. It is used as long-term enzyme replacement therapy when the 
level of enzyme in the body is absent or lower than normal as in Fabry Disease.
After 6 months of therapy Replagal significantly reduced pain in patients when compared to placebo 
(dummy) treated patients. Replagal reduced left ventricle mass in treated patients compared to placebo
treated patients. These results suggest the symptoms of the disease are improving or the disease is 
becoming stable.
2. What you need to know before Replagal is given
You must not be given Replagal
-
if you are allergic to agalsidase alfa or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before Replagal is used.
If you notice any of these effects during or after an infusion you should tell your doctor immediately:
-
-
-
-
high fever, chills, sweating, fast heart rate.
vomiting.
light-headedness.
hives.
23
-
swelling in your hands, feet, ankles, face, lips, mouth or throat which may cause difficulty in 
swallowing or breathing.
Your doctor may stop the infusion temporarily (5 – 10 min) until the symptoms go away and then 
begin the infusion again.
Your doctor may also treat the symptoms with other medicines (antihistamines or corticosteroids).
Most of the time you can still be given Replagal even if these symptoms occur.
If you experience a severe allergic (anaphylactic-type) reaction, the administration of Replagal will be 
immediately discontinued and an appropriate treatment will have to be initiated by your doctor.
If treatment with Replagal makes your body produce antibodies this will not stop Replagal from 
working and the antibodies may disappear with time.
If you have advanced renal disease, you may find that your Replagal treatment has a limited effect on 
your kidneys. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Replagal.
Children
The experience in children 0-6 years old is limited and therefore no dose can be recommended for this 
age group.
Other medicines and Replagal
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Tell your doctor if you use any medicines containing chloroquine, amiodarone, benoquin or
gentamicin. There is a theoretical risk of decreased agalsidase alfa activity.
Pregnancy and breast feeding
Very limited clinical data on pregnancies exposed to Replagal have shown no adverse effects on the 
mother and newborn child. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.
Driving and using machines
You may drive and use machines whilst on Replagal.
Replagal contains sodium
This medicine contains 14.2 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. This is 
equivalent to 0.7% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult.
Keeping a record
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded by your healthcare professional. Speak with your 
healthcare professional if you are not sure.
24
3.
How Replagal is given
This medicine should be applied and supervised by appropriately trained personnel, who will also 
calculate the dose that you will be given. While remaining under the physician’s supervision, Replagal 
can be self-administered (by you or your caregiver) after appropriate training by the treating physician
and/or nurse. Self-administration should occur in the presence of a responsible adult.
The recommended dose is an infusion of 0.2 mg for every kg you weigh. This would be about 14 mg 
or 4 vials (glass bottles) of Replagal for an average size (70 kg) individual.
Use in children and adolescents
For children and adolescents 7-18 years old a dose of 0.2 mg/kg every other week may be used.
Children and adolescents may be more likely than adults to experience an infusion related reaction.
Tell your doctor if you experience any side effects whilst having the infusion.
Method of administration
Replagal has to be diluted in 9 mg/ml (0.9%) sodium chloride solution before use. After dilution 
Replagal is given in a vein. This will usually be in your arm.
The infusion will be given every two weeks.
Each time you are treated it will take 40 minutes for Replagal to be given to you in a vein. Your 
treatment will be supervised by a doctor who specialises in the treatment of Fabry Disease.
For self-administration, the dose and rate of infusion given should not be changed without the 
agreement of the treating physician.
If you use more Replagal than you should
If you believe you have used more Replagal than you should, please contact your doctor.
If you use less Replagal than you should
If you believe you have used less Replagal than you should, please contact your doctor.
If you forget to use Replagal
If you have missed an infusion of Replagal, please contact your doctor.
If you stop using Replagal
Do not stop using Replagal without contacting your doctor. If you have any further questions on the 
use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
If you experience a severe allergic (anaphylactic-type) reaction, the administration of Replagal will be 
immediately discontinued and an appropriate treatment will have to be initiated by your doctor.
Most side effects are mild to moderate. More than 1 in 10 people (frequency “very common”) may 
have a reaction during or following an infusion of Replagal (infusion related reaction). These effects 
25
include chills, headache, nausea, fever, tiredness, unsteadiness, difficulty breathing, shaking, cough 
and vomiting. However, some effects may be serious and may need treatment. Infusion related 
reactions involving the heart including heart muscle ischemia and heart failure, may occur in patients 
with Fabry disease involving the heart structures (frequency “not known” (cannot be estimated from 
the available data)). Your doctor may stop the infusion temporarily (5 - 10 min) until the symptoms go 
away and then begin the infusion again. Your doctor may also treat the symptoms with other
medicines (antihistamines or corticosteroids). Most of the time you can still be given Replagal even if 
these symptoms occur.
List of other side effects:
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
swelling in the tissue (e.g., legs, arm)
tingling or numbness or pain in fingers or toes
ear ringing
palpitations
Sore throat
abdominal pain, diarrhoea
rash 
back or limb pain, muscle pain, joint pain
chest pain, cold symptoms, fever, feeling sick
change in the taste of food, prolonged sleep
eyes tearing
increased ear ringing
increased heart rate, heart rhythm problems
increased blood pressure, low blood pressure, facial flushing (redness)
hoarseness, or tight throat, runny nose
abdominal discomfort
acne, red or itchy or mottled skin, excessive sweating
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
- muscle and bone discomfort, swelling of the extremities or joints
-
-
hypersensitivity
chest tightness, increased feeling lack of energy, feeling cold or hot, flu-like symptoms,
discomfort
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people:
severe allergic (anaphylactic-type) reaction
-
blink reflex abnormal
-
increased heart rate
-
low level of oxygen in your blood and sticky throat secretions
-
sense of smell is different)
-
collection of fluid under the skin may lead to swelling of body parts, lace-like discoloration of the 
-
skin e.g., in the leg
sensation of heaviness
injection site rash
-
-
Children and adolescents
Side effects reported in children were, in general, similar to those reported in adults. However, 
infusion related reactions (fever, difficulty breathing, chest pain) and pain aggravated occurred more 
frequently.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
26
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store Replagal
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2 C – 8 C). 
Do not use Replagal if you notice that there is discolouration or other foreign particles present.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Replagal contains
-
-
The active substance is agalsidase alfa. Each ml of Replagal contains 1 mg of agalsidase alfa.
The other ingredients are: Sodium phosphate monobasic, monohydrate
Polysorbate 20
Sodium chloride
Sodium hydroxide
Water for injections
Replagal contains sodium. See section 2.
What Replagal looks like and contents of the pack
Replagal is a concentrate for solution for infusion. Your medicine is available in vials containing 
3.5 mg/ 3.5 ml of agalsidase alfa. Pack sizes of 1, 4 or 10 vials are available. Not all pack sizes may be 
marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza
50–58 Baggot Street Lower 
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
Manufacturer
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza
50–58 Baggot Street Lower 
Dublin 
D02 HW682 
Ireland
27
Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited
Block 2 & 3 Miesian Plaza
50–58 Baggot Street Lower
Dublin 2
Ireland
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Takeda Belgium NV
Tel/Tél: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
България
Такеда България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 958 27 36
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Lietuva
Takeda, UAB
Tel: +370 521 09 070
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Takeda Belgium NV
Tel/Tél: +32 2 464 06 11
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Česká republika
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Czech Republic s.r.o.
Tel: +420 234 722 722
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Magyarország
Takeda Pharma Kft.
Tel: +36 1 270 7030
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Danmark
Takeda Pharma A/S
Tlf: +45 46 77 10 10
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Deutschland
Takeda GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)800 825 3325
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Eesti
Takeda Pharma AS
Tel: +372 6177 669
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Ελλάδα
Τakeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 6387800
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
España
Takeda Farmacéutica España S.A
Tel: +34 917 90 42 22
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
France
Takeda France SAS
Tél. + 33 1 40 67 33 00
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Malta
Τakeda HELLAS S.A.
Tel: +30 210 6387800
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Nederland
Takeda Nederland B.V.
Tel: +31 20 203 5492
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Norge
Takeda AS
Tlf: +47 800 800 30
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Österreich
Takeda Pharma Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0) 800-20 80 50 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Polska
Takeda Pharma Sp. z o.o.
Tel: +48223062447
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Portugal
Takeda Farmacêuticos Portugal, Lda.
Tel: + 351 21 120 1457
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
28
Hrvatska
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 377 88 96
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
România
Takeda Pharmaceuticals SRL
Tel: +40 21 335 03 91
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Ireland
Takeda Products Ireland Ltd
Tel: 1800 937 970
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Italia
Takeda Italia S.p.A.
Tel: +39 06 502601
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Κύπρος
Τakeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 6387800
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Latvija
Takeda Latvia SIA
Tel: +371 67840082
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information
Slovenija
Takeda Pharmaceuticals farmacevtska družba d.o.o.
Tel: + 386 (0) 59 082 480
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Slovenská republika
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o.
Tel: +421 (2) 20 602 600
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Suomi/Finland
Takeda Oy
Puh/Tel: 0800 774 051
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Sverige
Takeda Pharma AB
Tel: 020 795 079
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Takeda UK Ltd
Tel: +44 (0) 2830 640 902
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only:
Instructions for use, handling, and disposal
Replagal treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of patients 
with Fabry Disease or other inherited metabolic diseases. 
Replagal is administered at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg body weight every other week by intravenous infusion 
over 40 minutes.
1.
2.
Calculate the dose and number of Replagal vials needed.
Dilute the total volume of Replagal concentrate required in 100 ml 9 mg/ml sodium chloride 
solution for infusion (0.9% w/v). Care must be taken to ensure the sterility of the prepared 
solutions since Replagal does not contain any preservative or bacteriostatic agent; aseptic 
technique must be observed. Once diluted, the solution should be mixed gently but not shaken.
29
3.
4.
5.
6.
The solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration.
Administer the infusion solution over a period of 40 minutes using an intravenous line with an
integral filter. Since no preservative is present, it is recommended that administration is started 
as soon as possible. However, the chemical and physical stability of the diluted solution has 
been demonstrated for 24 hours at 25 °C.
Do not infuse Replagal concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other agents.
For single use only. Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance 
with local requirements.
30
