European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/664892/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Resolor 
International Nonproprietary Name: Prucalopride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/1012 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 18 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 44 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 47 
2/49 
 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Movetis NV submitted on 8 May 2008 an application for Marketing Authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Resolor, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 
(2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon 
by the EMEA/CHMP on 17 July 2007.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 18 June 1997, 17 December 1997, 26 
March 1998 and 29 July 1999 
The Scientific Advice pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur: Tomas P Salmonson 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 8 May 2008. 
The procedure started on 28 May 2008.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 August 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 
August 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  25  September  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 26 September 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  20 
March 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 8 May 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 29 May 2009, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
Issues to all CHMP members on 6 July 2009 and 16 July 2009. 
During the meeting on 20-23 July 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion, by consensus, for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Resolor  on  23  July  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the 
letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  21  July 
2009.
3/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Chronic constipation is a common and often debilitating medical problem, with a demonstrated impact 
on quality of life (Wald, 2007; Dennison, 2005).  Depending on the definition used, the prevalence of 
any kind of constipation varies between 5-15% of the general population in Europe, with some of the 
highest prevalence found in Spain and the lowest in the United Kingdom. 
Besides  problems  of  disordered  defecation,  chronic  constipation  is  generally  associated  with  a 
reduction  in  the  giant  migrating  contractions  that  normally  drive  mass  transits  through  the  colon 
(Schiller, 2004). Evidence has emerged that morphological alterations of the enteric nervous system 
may underlie motility impairment in these patients (Bassotti, 1996).   
Prucalopride  was  selected  for  development  in  chronic  constipation  because  it  has  the  potential  to 
address the  underlying  motility  problem  and  provide broad  symptom  relief  beyond  increase  in  stool 
frequency; particularly in patients that report a lack of adequate relief on currently available laxatives.  
Prucalopride  belongs  to  a  chemical  class  of  dihydrobenzofurancarboxamide-derivatives  with  potent 
enterokinetic activity. It is one of a new generation of selective, high-affinity 5-HT4 receptor agonists, 
likely explaining its enterokinetic effects (De Maeyer et al., 2008).  Serotonin (5-HT) signalling in the 
GI  tract  is  known  to  regulate  a  range  of  functions  including  motility  and  consequently  interest  has 
been directed toward developing selective 5-HT4 receptor agonists for treating disorders in which GI 
motility is impaired, such as constipation (Galligan and Vanner, 2005; Schiller, 2004) 
This application is supported by 82 studies:  47 Phase I, 25 Phase II and 10 Phase III studies of which 
3 were pivotal.  In the Phase II/III double-blind placebo-controlled studies in chronic constipation, a 
total of 2717 patients were treated with doses of Prucalopride ranging from 0.5 to 4 mg. In the open 
long-term  studies,  2595  patients  with  chronic  constipation  were  treated  with  Prucalopride,  1490  of 
which received treatment for at least 6 months and 869 received at least 1 year of treatment.  
The initially proposed therapeutic indication is as follows: 
“Resolor  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  chronic  constipation  in  adults  in  whom  laxatives  fail  to 
provide adequate relief.” 
After review of the dossier, the indication has been revised and endorsed by the CHMP as follows: 
“Resolor is indicated for symptomatic treatment of chronic constipation in women in whom laxatives 
fail to provide adequate relief.” 
The posology for adults is one tablet (2 mg) once daily.  Based on pharmacokinetic considerations, the 
elderly (>65 years) should start with one 1 mg tablet once daily; if needed the dose can be increased to 
2 mg once daily. At time of initial Marketing authorisation, the safety and efficacy of Prucalopride in 
children and adolescents younger than 18 years had not yet been established.  Neither was sufficient 
data obtained in males to recommend the use of the medicinal product in this patient population.  The 
applicant  however  committed  to  perform  a  post-marketing  study  in  adult  male  patients,  as  part  of 
agreed follow-up measures (FUMs).  
4/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Resolor  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  1  mg  and  2  mg  of  Prucalopride  succinate  as 
active  substance.  The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  of  Resolor  are  lactose  monohydrate, 
microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate. 
Resolor is administered via oral route and is packed in Alu/Alu blisters of 28 unit dose tablets. 
Active Substance 
The active substance belongs to a chemical class of dihydrobenzofurancarboxamide-derivatives with 
potent enterokinetic activity. 
succinate 
Prucalopride 
methoxypropyl)-4-piperidinyl]-7-benzofurancarboxamide  butanedioate 
Prucalopride is shown in Fig.1. 
is  chemically  designated  as  4-amino-5-chloro-2,3-dihydro-N-[1-(3-
(1:1).  The  structure  of 
Figure 1: Chemical structure of Prucalopride 
Prucalopride  succinate  is  a  white  to  almost  white  powder  soluble  in  N,N-dimethylformamide, 
sulfinylbismethane  and  N,N-dimethylacetamide  and  sparingly  soluble  in  methanol.  In  addition, 
Prucalopride succinate is freely soluble in acidic aqueous media and >90% of the active substance is 
absorbed  with  the  Cmax  being  attained  in  2-3  hours.  The  active  substance  is  therefore  in 
biopharmaceutics classification system (BCS) class I, i.e., high permeability, high solubility. 
Prucalopride succinate is not hygroscopic and its melting point is ~198°C. The polymorph screening 
was  investigated  by  infrared  spectrometry  and  differential  scanning  calorimetry.  No  polymorphism 
was observed. Prucalopride succinate contains no chiral centres. The pKa for the piperidine moiety of 
Prucalopride  succinate  is  8.5,  determined  at  20°C.  The  pKa  for  the  amino  moiety  of  Prucalopride 
succinate is less than 3, determined at 20°C.  
5/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture 
Prucalopride succinate is synthesised in three steps from two starting materials. Step 1 does not affect 
the  critical  quality  attributes  (CQAs)  of  the  final  active  substance  and  this  step  is  identified  as  not 
critical. The last 2 process steps, step 2 and 3, impact the CQAs of the final active substance, and are 
therefore critical steps of the synthesis.   
Confirmation  of  the  chemical  structure  of  Prucalopride  succinate  was  provided  by  infrared 
spectroscopy,1H  Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance  (NMR)  spectroscopy,  13C  NMR  spectroscopy,  mass 
spectrometry and ultraviolet spectroscopy.  
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  (visual  examination),  identification 
(HPLC and IR), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), loss on drying (Ph. Eur.), residue on ignition (Ph. 
Eur.), heavy metals and particle size (laser diffraction). 
Three  commercial  scale  batches  of  the  active  substance  were  manufactured  using  the  proposed 
manufacturing  process,  at  the  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  site.  These  batches  were  tested 
with validated analytical methods. The results demonstrate a consistent manufacturing process.  
Acceptance criteria were set based on the analytical data, stability data, clinical and toxicological data 
and were in accordance with ICH Q6A.  
•  Stability 
Stability studies were performed on three commercial scale batches at various storage conditions, i.e., 
long  term  conditions  (25oC/60%  RH)  for  24  months  and  accelerated  conditions  (30oC/70%  RH  and 
40oC/75% RH) for 6 months according to the ICH guidelines on stability. No significant changes were 
observed  in  any  of  the  parameters  monitored  under  various  storage  conditions.  In  addition, 
photostability data was also provided as well as data on the forced degradation studies performed on 
one batch in solution. The effect of pH, oxidative agents and light was evaluated. The purpose of these 
studies was to identify potential degradation compounds of Prucalopride succinate. The results showed 
that  Prucalopride  succinate  is  sensitive  to  extreme  light  and  metallic  ions  and  is  not  stable  in  an 
oxidative medium. 
The active substance is packaged in double low density polyethylene (LDPE) bags in a drum sealed 
with a metal band and cap. 
Stability data provided indicates that the active substance is stable. The proposed retest period is 
considered to be acceptable. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Initial  formulation  work  involved  the  development  of  oral  solutions,  intravenous  injections  and 
capsules.  However,  the  pharmaceutical  form  of  choice  was  an  immediate  release  tablet.    The  tables 
were  initially  manufactured  by  wet  granulation  in  0.5mg,  1mg,  2mg,  and  4mg  strengths,  and  these 
were used in the clinical trials. The wet granulation process was later replaced by direct compression 
due to the formation of a lactose adduct induced by exposure to moisture.  Bioequivalence between the 
wet  granulation  tablets  (clinical  formulation)  and  the  direct  compression  tablets  (commercial 
formulation) was demonstrated by bioequivalence trials.  The studies demonstrate the wet-granulation 
batches are bioequivalent to the new direct compression tablets. 
The shape of the commercial tablets was changed from oblong to circular during development and a 
new manufacturing site was proposed for the manufacture of the finished product. Dissolution studies 
6/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
showed that for both oblong tablets and circular tablets the dissolution profiles were similar with more 
than 80% dissolved in 10 minutes, irrespective of process or site.  
Moisture was shown to induce the formation of a lactose adduct in the finished product, which was 
confirmed  in  the  stability  studies.  The  lactose  adduct  was  not  observed  in  tablets  packaged  into 
moisture impermeable Alu/Alu blisters, even when stored for 12 months at condition 30°C/70% RH. 
Therefore,  Alu/Alu  blisters  were  chosen  for  the  commercial  packaging  of  Prucalopride  succinate 
tablets. 
The  excipients  used  to  manufacture  the  core  tablets  are  all  compendial.  In  addition,  the  solvent 
(purified  water)  used  in  the  film-coating  is  compendial.  The  coating  powders  are  commercially 
available  mixtures.  The  two  coating  formulations  are  selected  to  provide  taste-masking  and  colour 
differentiation between the tablet strengths. 
Lactose monohydrate was used as diluent, microcrystalline cellulose was added to the formulation in 
the  external  phase  as  dry  binder  to  increase  tablet  hardness  during  compression.  In  addition, 
microcrystalline cellulose functions as a disintegrant, due to swelling, when in contact with aqueous 
solutions.  Colloidal  silicon  dioxide  was  used  as  a  glidant  to  improve  flowability  and  magnesium 
stearate was added to the formulation as a lubricant.  
The effect of the Prucalopride succinate particle size on the blend flowability and subsequently on the 
blend  uniformity  and  the  tablet  content  uniformity  was  investigated.  Particle  size  was  demonstrated 
not  to  be  critical  within  the  specified  range  as  tablets  manufactured  with  different  drug  substance 
particle sizes all had equivalent tablet characteristics.  
A  dissolution  method  for  Prucalopride  succinate  1  mg  and  2  mg  tablets  was  developed.  The  test 
conditions  were  based  upon  the  solubility  of  the  drug  substance.  Prucalopride  succinate  is  highly 
soluble in 0.1 N HCl and therefore the tests were carried out under sink conditions. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Satisfactory statements for lactose monohydrate and coating powders “white 1” and “pink” regarding 
the  compliance  of  lactose  monohydrate  with  the  “Note  for  guidance  on  minimizing  the  risk  of 
transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products” 
and  the  European  Council  Directive  2001/83/EC  concerning  BSE/TSE  were  provided.  None  of  the 
other excipients are derived from animal or human origin. Magnesium stearate is of vegetable origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Prucalopride succinate tablets are prepared via a direct compression process, followed by film-coating 
and blistering. The critical parameters have been identified and the in-process controls applied during 
the manufacturing process for the film-coated tablets were considered acceptable. 
Validation of the manufacturing process was performed on six validation batches. The results were 
consistent and satisfactory. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specification  for  Prucalopride  succinate  include  tests  for  appearance  (visual  examination), 
identification  (HPLC  and  IR),  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  content  uniformity  (Ph.  Eur.), 
dissolution (HPLC) and microbial purity (Ph. Eur.). 
The  finished  product  specifications  have  been  justified  and  all  methods  of  analysis  have  been 
described and adequately validated. 
7/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch analysis data was provided for three primary batches (of each strength of the finished product) 
manufactured  at the  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  site.  The  results  were  within  the  proposed 
specification for the drug product.  
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies have been performed on three primary stability batches of each strength using a range 
of stability conditions (5°C, 25°C/60% RH, 30°C/65% RH, 30°C/70% RH, 40°C/75% RH and 50°C) 
from various manufacturing sites. Six months stability data at 25°C/60% RH and 30°C/65% RH (long 
term conditions) and at 40°C/75% RH (accelerated conditions) were provided for commercial batches 
manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site. 
In summary, the stability results support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The applicant stated that all safety pharmacology studies, pharmacokinetic studies and all toxicology 
studies were carried out either in accordance or in full compliance with GLP regulations.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
An  adequate  programme  of  pharmacology  studies  has  been  performed;  of  which  only  the  pivotal 
studies are discussed in this assessment report. Prucalopride has a high affinity (Ki≤11 nM) for human 
5-HT4  receptors  expressed  in  human  embryonic  kidney  (HEK)  293  cells.  Prucalopride  interaction 
with the 5-HT4 receptor leads to the elevation of cAMP-levels in the same cell line (EC50= 5 nM). 
Prucalopride  interacted  weakly  with  human  sigma  receptor  binding  sites  (Ki-value  3.7  µM),  with 
human dopamine-D2 receptors (Ki-values were 14.0 µM) and with 5HT3 receptors (Ki-value 3.8 µM). 
Affinity for other receptors, channels or transporters, was detected at concentrations exceeding its 5-
HT4  receptor  affinity  by  at  least  150-fold  (up  to  10,000-fold).  This  adequately  demonstrated  that 
Prucalopride is a selective, high-affinity 5-HT4 receptor agonist.  
In the guinea pig (isolated tissue preparation), Prucalopride facilitated both cholinergic as well as non-
adrenergic  non  cholinergic 
(NANC)  excitatory  neurotransmission  and  enhanced  colonic 
motility/colonic contractile motility patterns in dogs. It was also shown that Prucalopride stimulated 
antral,  pyloric  and  duodenal  contraction  amplitude  in  the  conscious  dog,  but  does  not  affect  antro-
duodenal coordination in this species. The in vivo effects on the gastrointestinal tract were sensitive to 
complete blockade with a selective 5-HT4 receptor antagonist, illustrating that Prucalopride exerts its 
effects via a selective action on 5-HT4 receptors.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
In receptor binding studies, apart from its affinity for 5-HT4 receptors, Prucalopride did not show any 
significant  affinity  for  a  large  number  of  receptors,  ion  channels,  and  monoamine  transporter  at  or 
below concentrations exceeding Prucalopride 5-HT4 receptor affinity by at least 150 and up to 10,000 
fold.  Effects  on  gastrointestinal  motility  and  gastric/intestinal  secretion  were  also  investigated. 
Prucalopride  had  no  effects  mediated  via  5-HT2A,  5-HT2B  and  5-HT3  receptors  nicotinic 
cholinoceptors, motilin receptors or cholecystokinin-A receptors and was devoid of M3-cholinoceptor 
antagonistic,  anticholinesterase  and  non-specific inhibitory  (‘spasmolytic’) activity.  Prucalopride  did 
not  affect  basal  or  pentagastrin-induced  gastric  acid  secretion  in  isolated  immature  rat  stomach. 
Prucalopride did not affect gastric pH under basal conditions or after histamine challenge (ED50: ≥ 40 
mg/kg s.c. or p.o.) and did not affect histamine-induced gastric liquid secretion (ED50: > 40 mg/kg, 
s.c.  or  p.o.)  in  rats.  In  conscious  dogs,  up  to  a  dose  of  0.63  mg/kg  Prucalopride  administered 
intragastrically  via  a  chronically  implanted  gastric  cannula,  did  not  affect  basal  or  pentagastrin-
8/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
induced  gastric  acid  secretion.  Prucalopride,  tested  at  10  µM,  did  not  affect  basal  or  electrical  field 
stimulation-induced  secretion  on  isolated  guinea  pig  colonic  mucosa.  In  preparations  of  human 
terminal  ileum,  Prucalopride  did  induce  a  concentration-dependent  electrogenic  secretion  in  the 
terminal ileum (EC50 = 5 µM), but not in the ascending or sigmoid colon (up to 300 µM).  
The in vivo pharmacological profile of Prucalopride was studied at doses of up to 40 mg/kg in rodents 
and  10  mg/kg  in  dogs.  Apart  from  primarily  effects  on  the  gastrointestinal  tract  Prucalopride  was 
devoid  of  any  additional  effects  on  overt  or  conditioned  behaviour  or  of  effects  that  would  suggest 
interaction  with  various  types  of  receptors  (α1,  α2  and  β2  adrenoceptors;  D1  and  D2  dopamine 
receptors;  H1  and  H2  histamine  receptors;  M-  and  N-cholinoceptors;  5HT1A  and  5HT2A  serotonin 
tachykinin  NK1  receptors;  glucocorticoid  receptors); 
receptors;  µ-  and  κ-opioid  receptors; 
neurotransmitter  uptake  (5HT,  norepinephrine  or  dopamine);  enzymes  (monoamine  oxidase, 
cyclooxygenase,  methohexital  metabolising  enzymes);  pain  perception  (pinna-,  cornea-  and  tail 
withdrawal  reflexes,  hot  plate  response,  acetic  acid  writhing  and  local  anaesthesia);  body  functions 
(temperature,  muscle  tone,  pupil  diameter,  respiration,  lacrimation,  salivation,  gastric  pH,  emesis); 
convulsions (induced by pentylenetetrazole, electroshock or cerebral anoxia); cardioprotection (against 
ouabain or BaCl2); or hypoxia (after KCN, nitrogen or cerebral anoxia). 
Binding to dopamine D2 receptors (Ki = 14 µM = 5150 ng/ml; 687x the therapeutic plasma level) or 
antagonism at these receptors (ED50 in the rat after p.o. administration at 49 mg/kg) was seen in rats 
and  dogs.  In  a  pharmacology  study,  5  mg/kg  p.o.  Prucalopride  increased  serum  prolactin  levels  in 
female rats. Increased serum prolactin levels were noted in a large number of other studies (general 
toxicology studies and specific investigative mechanistic studies).  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The  effect  of  Prucalopride  on  the  major  organ  systems  were  investigated  in  a  battery  of  safety 
pharmacology  studies  at  doses  up  to  100  times  the  intended  clinical  dose  in  vivo  and  generally 
cardiovascular effects were only seen at very high doses and/or exposures.   
Prucalopride had no effect on the IKr current at concentrations up to 1 µM (370 ng/ml; approximately 
49-fold higher than the Cmax in man). The EC50 for IKr inhibition in hERG-HEK cells in various in 
vitro studies was between 4.1 to 22 µM (i.e. between 200-fold and 1100-fold higher than the Cmax in 
man). The EC50 for IKr inhibition in ventricular myocytes (guinea pig heart) was in the same range i.e. 
10 µM (3700 ng/ml; approximately 490-fold higher than the Cmax at the therapeutic dosage in man).  
An increase in mean arterial blood pressure was noted 20 and 30 minutes after infusion and increased 
duration of the QT- interval at 5 and 10 minutes were noted in anaesthetized guinea-pigs at 2.5 mg/kg 
i.v (approximately 95 times the clinical exposure). In anaesthetised rabbits at 0.16 mg/kg/min (mean 
plasma  level  2654  ng/ml,  approximately  350x  clinically  relevant  exposure)  increases  in  QT-,  QTc-, 
JT- and JTc-interval were noted. At 0.04 or 0.08 mg/kg/min no significant change in heart rate (HR), 
mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and ECG parameters including QT-, QTc-, JT- and JTc-interval 
or the dispersion of the QT- and QTc-interval was noted.  
In anaesthetised dogs, the duration of the QT interval, APD70, APD90, APD70c and APD90c were 
slightly shortened at 5 mg/kg. MAP traces showed no occurrence of EADs or DADS and no rhythm 
abnormalities  were  noted  in  the  ECG  traces.  No  influence  on  blood  pressures  and  other  peripheral 
haemodynamic  variables  was  noted.  Prucalopride  stimulated  left  ventricular  contractility  and 
relaxation at ≥0.63 mg/kg i.v. (median plasma level: 293 ng/ml), along with a modest increase in heart 
rate and cardiac output starting at ≥ 2.5 mg/kg i.v. (median plasma level: 1748 ng/ml). In conscious 
dogs increasing intravenous doses of 0.02, 0.04, 0.08, 0.16 and 0.31 mg/kg induced a dose dependent 
increase  in  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressure.  This  reached  the  level  of  statistical  significance, 
starting at 0.04 mg/kg (systolic) and 0.08 mg/kg (diastolic). As a consequence of this, the pressure rate 
product, an index for myocardial oxygen consumption, increased significantly, starting at 0.08 mg/kg. 
Total systemic resistance increased significantly but transiently at 0.04 mg/kg only. A single high oral 
dose  of  2.5  mg/kg  of  Prucalopride  induced  an  increase  in  heart  rate,  diastolic  and  systolic  blood 
pressure, pressure rate product, LV max, LV max, LV min, and cardiac output.  
9/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effect of Prucalopride on cardiac 5-HT4 receptors (lusitropic, inotropic and chronotropic effects in 
porcine and human atrial tissues; increase in heart rate in anesthetized juvenile pigs) correlated with 
transient and limited increase in heart rate observed in volunteers at first exposure. These responses 
were observed non-clinically at concentrations or doses of 2-9 times the therapeutic plasma levels. 
Given  the  findings  with  Prucalopride  and  the  known  cardiac  toxicity  associated  with  other  5-HT4 
agonists, it is appropriate to include a summary of the preclinical cardiovascular findings in Section 
5.3 of the SPC. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  have  demonstrated  that  a  5-HT4  receptor  antagonist  can  block  the 
effects of Prucalopride (excluding simultaneous use of a 5-HT4 receptor agonist and an antagonist). 
Since the propulsion enhancing effects are linked to the effect of Prucalopride at receptors located on 
cholinergic neurons, resulting in the release of acetylcholine concomitant use of acetylcholinesterase 
inhibitors  or  anticholinergic  compounds  will  respectively  potentiate  or  reduce  the  response  to 
Prucalopride. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption 
After single or repeated oral administration of Prucalopride to rats, rabbits and dogs, Prucalopride was 
rapidly  absorbed.  The  oral  bioavailability  varied  between  species,  presumably  due  to  the  extent  of 
first-pass  metabolism,  and  was  very  low  in  rabbits  (≤  5%),  low  to  intermediate  in  rats  (≤  8-53%, 
depending on dose and gender), and high in dogs (77%) and humans (93%). 
After  repeated  dosing  in  mice  and  rats,  the  Cmax  and  area  under  the  curve  (AUC)  values  increased 
either dose-proportionally or more than dose-proportionally depending on the study. Generally in rats, 
a  more  than  dose  proportional  increase  in  AUC0-24  was  seen  after  repeated  doses  in  the  majority  of 
toxicity studies. Both intravenous and subcutaneous administration in rats indicated a more than dose 
proportional increase in systemic exposure in terms of AUC0-24, suggesting that the non linear kinetics 
seen in rats is partly due to a capacity limited elimination process of Prucalopride in rats. This was not 
as  pronounced  in  mice,  and  in  dogs  dose  linear  kinetics  were  seen  within  the  studied  dose  range. 
Repeated dose exposure parameters were generally similar to those after single dosing, indicating that 
Prucalopride does not induce liver enzyme activity and does not accumulate. Half-lives of elimination 
of Prucalopride from plasma were short (< 1hour) in rats (low doses) and rabbits, and much longer in 
dogs  (7  h)  and  man  (22.5  h).  These  results  indicate  that  first-pass  metabolism  of  Prucalopride  is 
extensive in rats (at least at low doses) and rabbits, but much less extensive in dogs and humans. 
No  gender  differences  in  kinetics  were  observed  in  mice  and  dogs,  but  plasma  concentrations  in 
female rats were about 2-fold higher than those in male rats, and necessitated a differential dose level 
scheme for the pivotal oral toxicity studies in rats. This difference seemed to level out after long term 
exposure (>6 month). 
Distribution 
The protein binding of Prucalopride in plasma of mice, rats, rabbits dogs and man was low from 27-
37%. The blood-to-plasma concentration ratio in these species was 1.39-1.69. The tissue distribution 
in Prucalopride in male rats and pregnant female rats after single oral dosing was rapid and extensive. 
High  concentrations  of  Prucalopride  and/or  its  metabolites  were  found  in  oesophageal  content, 
gastrointestinal  content,  bile  and  urine,  and  somewhat  lower  concentrations  were  found  in intestinal 
tissues, liver, kidney, vagina, spleen, pancreas, bone marrow and most other glandular tissues. Limited 
exposure  was seen  in  brain,  bone  and  adipose tissues.  Low levels  of  radioactivity  were  also  seen in 
foetuses  indicating  placental  transfer.  No  undue  retention  of  radioactivity  was  seen  in  the  rats. 
However,  no  distribution  studies  were  conducted  in  pigmented  rats  which  preclude  assessment  of 
potential  distribution  and  retention  of  Prucalopride  and/or  its  metabolites  in  melanin  containing 
tissues. In dogs, the residual concentrations of unchanged Prucalopride after repeated oral dosing in a 
limited number of selected tissues were highest in colon tissue and lowest in brain and fat tissue.  
10/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism 
In  rats,  Prucalopride  was  extensively  metabolised,  and  some  gender  differences  in  the  metabolic 
pattern were observed. Excretion of unchanged Prucalopride accounted for 6% of the dose in males 
and for 10% of the dose in females. The main metabolites in rat excreta were R106569 (resulting from 
hydroxylation;  30%  in  males;  58%  in  females),  R129531  (resulting  from  hydroxylation,  O-
demethylation and oxidation; 17% in males, 3% in females), R112718 (resulting from hydroxylation 
and  O-demethylation;  9%  in  males,  3%  in  females),  and  R107504  (resulting  from  O-demethylation 
and oxidation; 6% in males, 2% in females). In vitro studies of microsomes and hepatocytes indicated 
similar metabolic pattern of Prucalopride as in rat microsomes and hepatocytes.  
In mice, Prucalopride was less extensively metabolised than in rats. The metabolic profiles for male 
and female mice were qualitatively and quantitatively similar. Unchanged Prucalopride and one major 
metabolite  (R106569)  was  the  major  components  in  plasma,  urine  and  faeces.  The  hydroxylated 
metabolite R106569 accounted for 36.0-41.8 % of the dose in male and female mice, respectively. All 
other metabolites accounted individually for less than 2.2% of the dose.   
In rabbits, Prucalopride was less extensively metabolised than in rats, and the metabolic pathway was 
different. The main metabolite of Prucalopride in rabbits was the N-glucuronide, of which the urinary 
accounted for 47% of the dose. Unchanged Prucalopride in faeces (24% of the dose) might partially 
result from deconjugation of the N-glucuronide by the intestinal flora. 
In  dogs,  Prucalopride  was not  extensively  metabolised.  The excretion  of  unchanged  Prucalopride  in 
urine  accounted  for  44%  of  the  dose.  The  two  major  metabolites  were  R107504  (resulting  from  O-
demethylation and oxidation; 18% of the dose) and R106569 (resulting from hydroxylation; 12% of 
the dose). In man, as in dog, Prucalopride was not extensively metabolised. Unchanged Prucalopride 
accounted  for  59  to  84%  of  the  total  radioactivity  in  plasma.  The  major  metabolite  was  R107504, 
resulting from O-demethylation and oxidation; 3% of the dose. All other human metabolites accounted 
for 0.3 to 1.9 % of  dose. Three of these metabolites were not reported present in any other species in 
vivo, M18 is a conjugate, M19 and M20 are unidentified.  
Excretion 
In rats, Prucalopride undergoes extensive hepatic extraction and the absorbed product is excreted into 
faeces  (63%)  presumably  via  the  biliary  route  or  is  excreted  in  urine  (36%).  In  mice,  excretion  of 
Prucalopride and metabolites were through urine (49-57%) and faeces (37-41%)  In rabbits and dogs, a 
larger  proportion  of  Prucalopride  is  excreted  in  urine  (53%,  72%,  respectively)  compared  to  faeces 
(44%,  21%,  respectively).  The  routes  of  excretion  in  man,  predominately  through  urine,  are  most 
similar to those in dogs.  
CYP450 enzyme induction 
Two  in  vitro  enzyme  induction  studies  were  performed  in  rat  hepatocytes  in  order  to  compare  the 
enzyme  induction  potential  of  the  products  from  the  O-demethylation  pathway  with  those  of  the 
hydroxylation  pathway.  The  results  showed  that  besides  Prucalopride  (1.6-2.7x),  the  following 
metabolites  have  some  induction  potential,  R129531  (2.1-2.9x),  R112718  (1.8-6.6x)  and  R107504 
(1.8-3.7x).  The following metabolites, R106569, R104068, R104065, R112716 and R084536, did not 
show any induction potential. 
Induction  studies  in  vivo  revealed  that  Prucalopride  is  not  inducing  CYP  enzyme  activities  of  any 
considerably  proportion.  Repeated  oral  administration  of  Prucalopride  at  dose  levels  up  to  20 
mg/kg/day to male and female rats for six month had no significant effects on liver enzyme activities, 
microsomal  protein and  hepatic cytochrome  P450  content.  At  the  highest  dose (160  mg/kg)  to  male 
rats  the  activity  of  CYP2B  was  3-fold  increased  after  six  month  exposure,  which  can  be  compared 
with  the  comparative  control  substance,  phenobarbital,  which  showed  a  47-fold  increase  in  activity 
after  one  week  exposure.  Similar  low  induction  potential  by  Prucalopride  was  seen  for  CYP1A 
activity,  where  no  induction  was  seen  after  one  month  and  a  3  to  9-fold  increase  was  seen  after  6 
months at the highest doses (80 and 160 mg/kg/d).  
11/49 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion,  dog  is  suggested  to  be  the  most  appropriate  species  for  toxicology  studies  since  the 
major metabolic and excretory pathways of Prucalopride in dog are similar as in man. Mice, rats and 
rabbits are considered valuable since high systemic levels of unchanged Prucalopride are present.  
Toxicology 
Both the hydrochloride (R093877) and succinate (R108512) salts of Prucalopride have been used in 
the various toxicity studies including 1-month bridging studies in rat and dog. The chosen species for 
toxicology studies are considered relevant even if the dog is probably the most relevant species. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
In single dose toxicity studies, Prucalopride showed low to medium acute toxicity with approximate 
lethal doses of 320-550 mg/kg and 600 mg/kg in female and male mice, respectively, and 600 mg/kg 
in  rats  after  oral  administration.  At  very  high  doses,  Central  Nervous  System  (CNS)  and 
cardiovascular effects were seen. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity  
Repeated-dose toxicity studies have been conducted in mice (up to 3 months), rats (up to 6 months) 
and  dogs  (up  to  12  months).  Target  organs  were  liver,  thyroid,  mammary  gland,  pituitary  gland, 
endocrine  pancreas,  female  genital  tract,  male  accessory  sex  organs,  adrenal  gland,  kidney,  heart, 
spleen  and  haematological  system.  In  mechanistic  studies,  dose  related  increases  in  serum  prolactin 
levels were demonstrated in male and female rats and mice and the NOAEL was 2.5 mg/kg in female 
rats.  Using  available  pharmacokinetic  and  toxicokinetic  data  it  can  be  calculated  that  prolactin  was 
secreted in vivo in rats when Prucalopride reached plasma concentrations of 0.5-1 µM and above. 
Liver:  Prucalopride  induced  liver  effects  in  rats  and  dogs.  The  liver  findings  observed  in  rats  are 
described below in the carcinogenicity section. In dogs, increased liver weights were noted together 
with increased BIL, ALT and AST levels after 12 months at a dose of 30 mg/kg/day. The histological 
findings  consisted  of  focal  necrosis,  swollen  hepatocytes,  pigmentation,  and  disturbed  trabecular 
structure in two female dogs. The NOAEL in dogs was 10 mg/kg/day which correspond to 244 times 
the therapeutic exposure.  
Thyroid: Thyroid effects were seen in rats and dogs. The thyroid findings in rats are described below 
in the carcinogenicity section. In dogs, thyroid weights were increased at a dose of 30 mg/kg/day The 
dog NOAEL was 10 mg/kg/day which correspond to 244 times the therapeutic exposure. Serum TSH, 
T3 and T4 levels have not been measured in the dog studies.  
Mammary gland: Increased glandular development and secretion were demonstrated in both sexes in 
rats  at  ≥80  mg/kg/day.  The  NOAEL  was  20  mg/kg/day  corresponding  to  74-142  times  the  clinical 
exposure.   
Pituitary  gland:  In  mice,  hypertrophy  of  the  pars  intermedia  of  the  pituitary  gland  was  observed  at 
doses  of  80  mg/kg/day.  The  NOAEL  was  20  mg/kg/day  corresponding  to  19-27  times  the  clinical 
exposure.. 
Endocrine pancreas: Increased pancreas weight was noted in rats at ≥ 20 mg/kg/day and 80 mg/kg/day 
in males and females, respectively. Thus, NOAELs were 5 and 20 mg/kg/day corresponding to 5 and 
142 times the clinical exposure, respectively.  
Female genital tract: In female rats at 20 mg/kg/day dosed for 6-months, reduced cyclic activity and 
pseudopregnancy  status  in  the  ovaries  and  vagina  were  seen.  The  NOAEL  was  5  mg/kg/day 
corresponding to 5 times the clinical exposure. Decreased basophilic corpora lutea in ovary, increased 
atrophy  and  decreased  glandular  development  and  decreased  height  of  epithelium  in  uterus  were 
noticed at and above 40 and 80 mg/kg/day, in rats and mice, respectively. In addition, at 40 mg/kg/day 
decreased granulocytic infiltration in uterus and increased necrotic cells (epithelium) were observed in 
12/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  vagina  in  one  study.  Changes  in  the  female  genital  tract,  i.e.  increased  interstitial  tissue  in  the 
ovaries  and  mammary  gland  development,  were  still  apparent  after  a  1-month  recovery  period.  See 
carcinogenicity section for further comments. In dogs, toxicity was induced in the female tract at 30 
mg/kg  since  retardation  of  cyclic  activity  in  female  dogs,  manifested  as  decreased  glandular 
development in the uterus, was observed in the 12-month study. The dog NOAEL was 10 mg/kg/day 
which correspond to 244 times the therapeutic exposure. 
Male accessory sex organs: In rats, ≥40 mg/kg resulted in changes in the prostate (from granulocytic 
infiltration  to  chronic  inflammation.  NOAEL  was  20  mg/kg/day  at  74-142  times  clinical  exposure. 
Changes in the prostate in males, i.e. increased granulocytes/cell debris, were still apparent after a 1-
month recovery period. In addition at 80 mg/kg/day, a slight decrease in epithelial thickness was seen 
in seminal vesicles. See carcinogenicity section for further comments. 
Adrenal  gland:  At  80  mg/kg/day,  increased  adrenal  gland  weight  was  observed  in  males  after  6-
months. The NOAEL was 20 mg/kg/day corresponding to 74-142 times the clinical exposure.  
Kidney:  In rats, consistent and reproducible findings on kidney weight, serum and urinary parameters 
were seen at doses above 5 mg/kg/day. At NOAEL, 5 mg/kg/day, the exposure ratio is ≥ 6 times, based 
on  AUC,  the  anticipated  clinical  exposure.  No  adverse  consistent  kidney  findings  were  observed  in 
either  mouse  or  dog.    Taking  into  account  the  species  differences  with  regard  to  excretion  and 
metabolism, the observed kidney effects could be related to the extensive metabolism observed in rats. 
The  rat  is  considered  to  be  an  animal   species  less  relevant  for  humans.  Further,  no  adverse  kidney 
effects have been observed in the clinical data base. Thus, the kidney effects observed solely in rat are 
not considered relevant for humans. 
Heart:  Increased  heart  weight  was  noted  in  male  rats  administered  ≥20  mg/kg/day  resulting  in 
exposures  of  75  times  above  the  therapeutic  exposure  levels.  The  NOAEL  was  5  mg/kg/day  which 
correspond  to  5  times  the  clinical  exposure.  Slight  increase  in  focal  infiltration  of  chronic 
inflammatory cells was also noticed in the rat hearts.  
Spleen and haematological system: Increased spleen weight was noticed. Haematological changes in 
male and female rats (decreased haematocrit, haemoglobin and red blood cells; increased MCV and 
MCH) were observed at and above 20 mg/kg/day.  The NOAEL was 5 mg/kg/day which correspond to 
5-12 times the clinical exposure. 
Thymus: Slight individual cell necrosis was noticed in female rats dosed 80 mg/kg/day for 6-months. 
The NOAEL was 20 mg/kg/day corresponding to 19-27 times the clinical exposure. 
•  Genotoxicity 
In the performed standard package of genetic toxicology studies, a positive in vitro finding was seen in 
the Ames test in strain TA100 of Salmonella typhimurium at concentration at and above 500 µg/plate 
in the absence and presence of rat liver activation system. An extensive series of follow-up in vitro and 
in vivo mutagenicity studies have been performed to define the genotoxic hazard.  
The in vitro positive findings in TA100 together with the positive effect seen with the TA-mixed strain 
sample  indicate  mutations  induction  by  base-pair  substitution.  Prucalopride  did  not  induce  in  vitro 
mammalian  mutation  (mouse  lymphoma)  or  chromosomal  aberration  (human  lymphocyte)  in  the 
absence and presence of S9. Since Prucalopride has not been tested up to relevant toxicity levels in 
some  tests,  Prucalopride  cannot  be  considered  thoroughly  tested  in  the  presence  of  metabolic 
activation  in  the  chromosomal  aberration  test  and  in  the  absence  of  metabolic  action  in  the  Mouse 
Lymphoma  test.  However,  when  taken  together  the  results  in  the  in  vitro  mammalian  tests  can  be 
evaluated as a negative result.  
In  the  first  in  vitro  UDS-test  in  rat  hepatocytes,  at  high  cytotoxic  concentrations  of  100  µg/ml  and 
above, increases in DNA-repair activity was observed and the results was classified as equivocal. In a 
repeat in vitro UDS-test, no DNA damage occurred at moderately cytotoxic concentrations up to 50 
13/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
µg/ml.  The  tests  were  further  followed  up  by  an  in  vivo  UDS  test  where  the  potential    DNA-repair 
activity was measured in hepatocytes from male rats given up to 548 mg/kg Prucalopride in a single 
oral dose. In vivo in rat, no DNA-repair activity was observed at a calculated exposure margin of 2000 
compared to the highest recommended dose in man. 
No  genotoxic  activity  was  observed  in  the  mouse  micronucleus  test  up  640  mg/kg.  In  addition,  the 
potential of Prucalopride to induce gene mutations and DNA adducts in the liver of Big Blue™ λ lac I 
transgenic  rats  was  also  assessed  in  a  28  day  study  at  dose  levels  up  to  80  mg/kg/day.  The 
Prucalopride  dosed  animals  were  sacrificed  24  h  after  last  administration.  With  respect  to  DNA 
adducts, using standard enrichment methods and solvents the results did not indicate that adducts were 
formed in the liver. In the second 32P -postlabelling study (N185033), Prucalopride and its metabolites 
were  assessed  for  their  potential  to  form  DNA  adducts  in  rat  and  mouse  tissues  in  which  increased 
incidences of neoplastic findings were observed in carcinogenicity studies. In this DNA adduct study, 
Prucalopride  was  administered  at  80  mg/kg  to  male  rats,  40  mg/kg  to  female  rats,  and  80  mg/kg  to 
male  and female  mice  for 7  days. The  organs  examined  were liver,  thyroid,  adrenals  and  mammary 
gland  in rats  and  liver  and  mammary  gland,  in  mice.  Testes  and  uterus  were  also  added  in  mice  on 
specific  request  of  FDA.  Using  specially  developed  solvents,  modified  bases  were  detected  in  the 
livers of male and female mice and rats but not in any other tissue.   
In  a  newly  performed  DEREK  analysis  for  Prucalopride  and  metabolites,  no  structural  alerts  were 
identified. In addition, the polarity of all hypothetical adducts of Prucalopride and its metabolites was 
calculated in a new in silico study and compared to the polarity of two reference MOCA adducts. The 
results indicate that the hypothetical adducts of Prucalopride and its metabolites have a lower polarity 
or a polarity in the same range as reference MOCA compounds.  
In  conclusion,  although  it  was  considered  that  there  was  no  strong  support  for  an  epigenetic 
mechanism of carcinogenesis and without further support a genotoxic mechanism relevant for humans 
could  not  be  ruled  out,  the  applicant  has  adequately  addressed  the  specified  issues.  Moreover, 
extensive in  vivo  genotoxicity  testing  has been  performed  (in  vivo  UDS,  in  vivo  Micronucleus test, 
and DNA adducts in the liver of Big Blue™ λ lac I transgenic rats) with no indication of genotoxic 
potential.  In  addition,  Prucalopride  did  not  induce  tumours  in  neonatal  mice  in  a  short  term 
carcinogenicity  study.  The  neonatal  mouse  model  is  considered  relevant  since  it  is  expected  to  be 
sensitive  to  genotoxic  carcinogens  but  not  to  nongenotoxic  carcinogens  (new  metabolism  data  for 
mouse  illustrates  that  the  mouse  is  a  relevant  animal  model  for  man).  Further  on,  considering  the 
extensive  genotoxicity  testing  performed,  the  weight  of  evidence  shows  that  Prucalopride  raise  no 
genotoxic concern. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
In oral carcinogenicity studies, mice and rats were treated with Prucalopride succinate at the following 
dose levels 0, 10, 20 and 80 mg/kg/day (male and female mice), 0, 5, 20, 80 mg/kg/day (male rats) and 
0,  5,  10,  40    mg/kg/day  (female  rats).  A  wide  distribution  of  tumours  to  major  organ  systems  was 
observed in the rat carcinogenicity study. Hepatocellular adenomas, thyroid follicular adenomas and 
benign  mammary  gland  tumours  were  seen  in  males  and  female  rats,  whereas  pituitary  adenomas, 
pancreas islet cell adenomas and adrenal gland benign phaeochromocytomas were observed in male 
rats. In mice, mammary gland adenocarcinomas were observed in females.  
Mechanistic  studies  were  performed  to  possibly  elucidate  the  mechanisms  of  the  carcinogenicity 
findings. The focus was on the following changes: enhanced prolactin secretion and the liver changes 
and thyroid changes. The results of the additionally performed mechanistic studies are included in this 
section.  
14/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prolactin secretion 
In  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study  with  Prucalopride  succinate,  the  adenomas  in  the  pituitary  gland, 
mammary  gland,  endocrine  pancreas  and  the  benign  phaeochomocytomas  in  the  adrenal  medulla  in 
rats dosed at 40 and 80 mg/kg are considered by the applicant to be related to an increase in prolactin 
secretion due to dopamine D2-receptor antagonistic effects. The mammary gland adenocarcinomas in 
mice at 80 mg/kg are also considered by the applicant to be related to prolactin release. The NOAELs 
were  20  mg/kg/day  in  female  mice,  20  mg/kg/day  and  10  mg/kg/day,  in  male  and  female  rats, 
respectively. The resulting exposure margins to the therapeutic levels are 20 times (female mice), 63 
times (male rats) and 40 times (female rats).  
It  is  agreed  that  the  mechanism  causing  hyperprolactinemia  in  rat  and  mouse  at  high  dose  levels  of 
Prucalopride  is  considered  to  be  the  interaction  of  Prucalopride  with  pituitary  DA2  receptors  as 
demonstrated by the pituitary tissue levels that exceed the Ki value for binding of Prucalopride to the 
rat  DA2  receptor  at  all  doses  where  prolactin  increases  were  measured.  Prolactin  increases  were 
measured in  male  and  female  rat and  mouse.  Prolactin  levels  were  assessed at  oral  doses from  0.63 
mg/kg  to  320  mg/kg.  At  and  above  the  dose  of  5  mg/kg  p.o.  a  statistically  significant  increase  in 
prolactin levels was observed. In conclusion, the applicant has well demonstrated, both in vitro and in 
vivo, that  the  observed  tumours  in  mammary  gland,  pituitary  gland,  endocrine  pancreas  and  adrenal 
gland most probably are due to hyperprolactinemia caused by an interaction between Prucalopride and 
DA2 receptors. 
Liver and thyroid tumours 
The incidence of liver hepatocellular adenomas was increased at all dose levels in male rats even at the 
lowest  tested  dose  of  5  mg/kg/day,  which  is  6  times  higher  than  the  therapeutic  plasma  levels.  In 
females,  hepatocellular  adenomas  were  noted  at  the  mid  and  high  doses,  10  and  40  mg/kg/day.  At 
NOAEL  in  female  rats,  the  systemic  exposure  is  7  times  higher  than  the  clinical  exposure.  The 
incidence of thyroid follicular adenomas was increased at the highest dose levels in male and female 
rats. NOAEL is 20 and 10 mg/kg/day, in males and females, respectively resulting in exposure margins 
of 63 and 40.  
The  adenomas  emerged  only  late  during  the  24  month  carcinogenicity  studies.  Hepatocellular  and 
thyroid  adenomas  were  observed  in  male  and  female  rats  from  month  21  onwards  (with  only  2 
exceptions in thyroid at lunar months 8 and 17). 
Table 1: Hepatocellular tumours in the rat carcinogenicity study 
# p<0.05, ## p<0.01, ### p<0.001: statistically significant changes with Fisher exact test (two-tailed) 
The results of the additionally performed mechanistic studies including relevant results from the repeat 
dose toxicity and carcinogenicity studies are summarised below. 
The  new in vivo  metabolism  study  in  the  mouse  and the in vitro enzyme  induction  study  in  the  rat, 
support the hypothesis of the rat-specific nature of the liver enzyme induction. This enzyme induction 
is considered to be a major event reflecting an enzyme adaptive liver reaction which is at the basis of 
the liver hyperplastic changes and adenoma formation. It also contributes indirectly to the hyperplastic 
changes and adenoma formation in the thyroid. 
15/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Suggested mechanism for liver and thyroid findings in rats (taken from Applicants 
response) 
Liver 
In rats, slightly increased liver weights were observed after 1 week, 1 month (in one of two studies in 
females at 80 mg/kg/day) and after 6 months in males from 5 mg/kg/day and onwards in one study and 
at  160mg/kg/day  in  the  other  study.  In  females  administered  Prucalopride  for  6  months,  slight  liver 
weight increases were seen at 20 mg/kg/day and at 80 mg/kg/day in the two studies, respectively. In 
some  studies,  females  were  more  sensitive  whilst  in other  studies  males  were most  sensitive.  In  the 
two studies performed in rat with a recovery period, the effect on liver weights was mostly reversible.  
Slightly  increased  liver  weights  were  increased  in  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study  at  and  above  20 
mg/kg/day and 40 mg/kg/day in males and females, respectively. 
Changes  in  bilirubin,  ALP,  AST  and  ALT  levels  were  noted  in  most  studies  however  not  in  the  6-
month  mechanistic  study.  Decreased  ALP  was  the  most  consistent  change  seen  in  most  rat  studies. 
Decreased  BIL  was  observed  in  two  of  the  four  mechanistic  studies.  In  the  two  rat  studies  with  a 
recovery period, the findings were reversible. 
16/49 
 
 
 
 
 
The  early  histological  changes  were  limited  (slightly  increased  incidences  of  centrilobular 
hypertrophy/vacuolation in the 1 week study; normal histology after 1 month of treatment), followed 
by a slight increase in incidence of basophilic and eosinophilic foci in a 6 months study, which was 
more pronounced and statistically significant after 24 month treatment. However, no clear histological 
changes  in  the  liver  were  observed  in  the  other  rat  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies.  Thus,  an  increased 
incidence of centrilobular hypertrophy frequently associated with liver weight increases and adaptive 
enzyme induction was not observed in the repeat dose toxicity or carcinogenicity studies.  
Nevertheless,  further  data  indicates  that  down-stream  metabolites  of  Prucalopride,  R112718  and/or 
R129531, might be responsible for the “enzyme induction” and thus, causing the liver tumours in rats.   
-  New metabolism data for the mouse show that Prucalopride was less extensively metabolised 
than  in  rats.  Unchanged  Prucalopride  and  one  major  metabolite  (R106569)  was  the  major 
components in plasma, urine and faeces. The hydroxylated metabolite R106569 accounted for 
36.0  and  41.8  %  of  the  dose  in  male  and  female  mice,  respectively.  All  other  metabolites 
accounted individually for less than 2.2% of the dose.  In addition, the new metabolism data 
for mouse illustrates that the mouse is a more relevant animal model for man than the rat. 
-  New in vitro induction data in rat hepatocytes are available. A new in vitro enzyme induction 
study was performed in rat hepatocytes in order to compare the enzyme induction potential of 
the products from the O-demethylation pathway with those of the hydroxylation pathway. The 
results  showed  that  besides  Prucalopride  (1.6-2.7x),  the  following  metabolites  have  some 
induction potential, R129531 (2.1-2.9x), R112718 (1.8-6.6x) and R107504 (1.8-3.7x).   
Taking into account the differences in metabolism observed between male rats, female rats and mice 
and  the  available  in  vitro  induction  data  on  individual  metabolites  together  with  the  observed  liver 
tumour incidences in the carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice, the following two pathways are of 
special  interest.  Prucalopride  →R106569  →R112718→R129531  (Pathway  A)  and  Prucalopride 
→R104065 →R107504 (Pathway B).  From the data it can be concluded that it is plausible that either 
or both of the two down-stream metabolites R112718 and R129531 are responsible for the suggested 
enzyme induction mechanism causing the observed liver tumours in rats. It also gives an explanation 
to why it is difficult to show a clear correlation between the observed liver tumours and the classical 
“enzyme induction mediated manifestations” which have been rather elusive and difficult to ascertain 
in the performed toxicity studies. It could probably have been easier to prove a connection if tissues 
samples from the carcinogenicity study had been available and used.  
In addition, it is agreed that the rat is considered to be an animal species less relevant for humans. The 
new  metabolism  data for mouse  illustrates that the mouse  is  a  more  relevant animal  model  for  man 
and,  further,  no  liver  and  thyroid  tumours  were  observed  in  the  mouse  carcinogenicity  study. 
Furthermore, in man involvement of the liver in metabolism of Prucalopride and thus in exposure of 
the  liver  and  thyroid  to  the  metabolites  of  Prucalopride,  is  very  limited.  Calculated  human  tissue 
exposure  to  Prucalopride  in  the  liver  is  far  below  the  concentration  needed  to  induce  liver  enzyme 
activity in rat hepatocytes. Thus, the observed liver and thyroid tumours are not considered relevant 
for humans. 
Thyroid 
In  rats,  thyroid  weights  were  slightly  increased  in  males  after  doses  of  ≥160  mg/kg/day  but  not  in 
females. In the carcinogenicity study, increased thyroid weights were also only observed in males at 
80  mg/kg/day.  In  the  only  study  (1-month  mechanistic  toxicity)  where  recovery  (6  weeks)  was 
included, the effect on thyroid weight was reversible. Changes in T3, T4 and TSH levels were noted in 
some rat studies. However, the most consistent change was an increased T3 level, observed in all of 
the  four  performed  mechanistic  studies.  In  mechanistic  studies  when  rats  were  treated  orally  for  6 
months with a dose of Prucalopride (80 mg/kg/day) only minor increases in bile excretion, excretion 
of T4G and unchanged T4 were observed. No relevant effect on thyroxin UDP-glucuronyltransferase 
activity was seen and 5’-monodeiodinase and thyroid peroxidase activities were not either affected. In 
the 6-month mechanistic study in rats, the hepatic expression level of the transport protein Oatp2 was 
measured  semiquantitatively  and  resulted  in  a  significant  (P<0.05)  but  small  increase  of  about  2.5-
fold, in the average Oatp2 expression levels was observed.  
17/49 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Oral  reproduction  toxicology  studies  in  rats  did  not elicit  adverse effects  up to 20  mg/kg  in fertility 
and  peri-  postnatal  studies,  whereas  secondary  effects  due  to  maternal  prolactin-mediated  toxicity 
were  seen  at  80  mg/kg.  In  the  oral  embryofoetal  developmental  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits,  no 
teratogenicity and embryotoxicity were seen up to the highest doses of 80 mg/kg, corresponding with 
exposure ratios versus humans of 931 in rats (based upon Cmax) and 39 in rabbits (based upon AUC0-
24h). Significant excretion of Prucalopride into breast milk was showed in a human study.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
Phototoxicity 
Prucalopride  absorbs  UV  light  between  290  and  700  nm.  Based  upon  an  evaluation  of  the  UV 
absorbance and the documented presence of Prucalopride in eyes and skin, photosafety studies were 
deemed necessary and a tiered approach was selected starting with an in vivo phototoxicity test.  
A single oral administration of Prucalopride (2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg) was given to Crl:LE (Long-Evans) 
pigmented rats (Study BOV000030). After 1 hour the rats were exposed for 30 minutes to a standard 
UV radiation from a xenon lamp. Mean plasma levels 1 h after dosing, were 102, 390 and 1016 ng/ml 
for the 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg dose levels, respectively.  It is agreed that the results of the UV exposure 
and  subsequent  scoring  of  the  skin  responses  show  that  Prucalopride  does  not  induce  phototoxicity 
related  skin  or  eye  reactions  at  any  of  the  doses  tested  during  the  4  day  observation  period.  Thus, 
Prucalopride is not considered to be phototoxic. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  environmental  risk  assessment  was  conducted 
the  EU  guideline 
(CHMP/SWP/4447/00).    A  Phase  I  environmental  risk  assessment  based  on  a  refined  Fpen  was 
provided.  In  addition, one ready  biodegradation  study  and  one short-term  toxicity  study  in  Daphnia 
magna was presented. No conclusion on the environmental risk can be drawn at the moment and a full 
Phase  II  assessment  is  still  required.  This  will  be  carried  out  as  a  post-authorisation  follow-up 
measure. 
in  compliance  with 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  Prucalopride  was  investigated  in  numerous  studies  following 
intravenous and oral administration (thirty-five studies in 718 subjects).  A wide dose range has been 
studied: single doses ranged from 0.125 mg to 6 mg, while steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters 
were determined after o.d. dosing of 1 mg up to 20 mg. 
18/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Absorption  
The absolute oral bioavailability of Prucalopride was assessed in a trial in 14 subjects comprising three 
periods (Study PRU-BEL-32).  A 2 mg Prucalopride tablet was administered in randomized cross-over 
order under fasting conditions as a 10-min i.v. infusion.  The pharmacokinetic parameters after the i.v. 
treatment and the tablet fasting  and the time course of the mean plasma concentrations after the i.v. 
infusion and after the tablet in fasting conditions is shown in the Table 2 and Figure 3 below.  
Table 2: Summary of Prucalopride PK parameters, obtained by non-compartmental analysis, after single 
oral administration of 2mg Prucalopride as a 10-min i.v. infusion and p.o. as a tablet in fasting conditions 
to 14 healthy subjects (PRU-BEL-32). 
Parameter 
h 
tmax 
Cend infusion/Cmax  ng/ml 
AUC∞ 
t1/2term 
Fabs 
ng.h/ml 
h 
% 
SD 
10-min i.v. infusion 
± 
Mean 
- 
9.21  ± 
± 
± 
- 
108 
22.5 
5.96 
3.8 
21 
Tablet fasting 
SD 
± 
Mean 
0.9 
2.1 
± 
4.34  ± 
0.82 
± 
± 
± 
17.2 
3.7 
11.6 
99.2 
21.2 
93.2 
a
m
s
a
p
l
l
m
/
g
n
,
e
d
i
r
p
o
a
c
u
r
l
P
10
1
0.1
0
12
24
36
48
60
72
84
96
Time, hours
Figure 3:  Semilogarithmic plot of the mean Prucalopride plasma concentrations in function of time after single oral 
administration  of  2mg  Prucalopride  as  a  10-min  i.v.  infusion  (○)  and  p.o.  as  a  tablet  in  fasting  conditions  (□)  to  14 
healthy subjects (PRU-BEL-32). 
The peak plasma concentration after oral administration was about half the concentration observed at 
the end of the 10-min i.v. infusion. The absolute oral bioavailability was > 90%. 
After a single oral intake of 2 mg Prucalopride, Cmax was attained in 2-3 hours. Concomitant intake of 
food did not influence the oral bioavailability of Prucalopride.  
In  PRU-BEL-2,  a  randomized,  placebo-controlled  dose-escalation  study,  Prucalopride  was 
administered twice daily. Each dose regimen of Prucalopride, 0.5, 1 and 2 mg b.i.d. (every 12 hours), 
was administered to 8 subjects for 6 consecutive days, with a last dose taken in the morning of day 7.   
Further repeated-dose kinetics of Prucalopride after once daily dosing were established in several trials 
in  healthy  subjects  investigating  the  effect  of  Prucalopride  on  pharmacodynamic  and/or  safety 
parameters.  In all studies, steady-state was attained within 2-3 days of dosing at the target dose-level. 
On  once  daily  treatment  with  2  mg  Prucalopride,  steady  state  plasma  concentrations  fluctuated 
between  2.5  and  7  ng/ml.  An  in  vitro  study  in  Caco-2  cells  and  in  MDCK  cells  was  performed  to 
19/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evaluate  if  Prucalopride  is  a  P-gp  substrate/inhibitor  and  to  provide  further  information  in  future 
studies  on  the  possible  involvement  of  active  renal  secretion  transporters.  It  was  concluded  that 
Prucalopride is a weak P-gp substrate. 
•  Distribution 
The plasma protein binding of Prucalopride is low, at 28-33% (Study FK 1913). In whole blood, 66% 
of  the  drug  is  distributed  to  blood  cells.  After  i.v.  dosing,  Prucalopride  is  rapidly  and  extensively 
distributed and has a large volume of distribution (Vdss of 567 L). No concentration dependency was 
evident and only a small pH –dependent binding was observed. The fraction unbound was similar in 
healthy subjects and in subjects with severe renal impairment (0.68 to 0.72). 
•  Elimination 
In-vitro,  liver  metabolism  in  human  hepatocytes  is  very  slow;  in-vivo,  metabolism  is  not  the  major 
route of elimination (approximately 35% is non-renal elimination). In the AME study (PRU-BEL-16) 
with radiolabelled Prucalopride, a large fraction of the dose was excreted unchanged (about 60% of 
the administered dose in the urine and at least 6% in the faeces). The active secretion stands for 43% 
of  the  total  clearance.  The  most  important  metabolite,  R107504  accounted  for  only  2.6-3.5%  of  the 
dose, whereas 7 other metabolites each represented between 0.3% and 1.9% of the dose. In plasma, 
R107504 was the only, and a very minor, metabolite. 
The  accumulation  ratio  after  o.d.  dosing  ranged  from  1.9  to  2.3.  Prucalopride  has  a  low  plasma 
clearance  (317  mL/min),  and  a  terminal  half-life  of  about  1  day,  determined  after  intravenous 
administration.    The  pharmacokinetics  of  Prucalopride  appears  to  be  dose-proportional  and  time-
independent between doses of 1-4 mg.  
Regarding  the  activity  of  the  metabolites,  this  was  tested  in  an  in  vitro  model  (isolated  oesophagus 
tunica muscularis mucosae of the rat. Based on the results and the knowledge about the mass balance, 
the  metabolites  likely  play  a  limited  role  compared  to  the  effect  of  Prucalopride,  given  the  low 
exposure  to  the  metabolites,  the  low  protein  binding  of  Prucalopride  and  the  comparable  or  lower 
potency of the metabolites to the 5-HT4-receptor. 
•  Pharmacokinetics in target population  
A  population  analysis  using  NONMEM  was  performed.  Data  from  healthy  volunteers  and  patients 
with chronic constipation was used. The pharmacokinetics was found to be best described by a two-
compartment  model  with  lag-time,  followed  by  first-order  absorption  process.  Out  of  the  tested 
covariates  on  CL/F  (age,  body  mass  index,  body  weight,  creatinine  clearance,  daily  dose  of 
Prucalopride,  healthy  volunteers  versus  patients,  race,  sex  and  single  versus  multiple  dose 
administrations), creatinine clearance was the only parameter that affected the apparent oral clearance 
of Prucalopride. 
•  Variability  
The  inter-individual  variability  is  low  as  seen  from  the  pharmacokinetic  studies.  A  coefficient  of 
variance (CV%) up to approximately 30 % in phase I studies is observed for Prucalopride. The intra-
individual variability is likely also low.  
•  Special populations 
Elderly 
The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of Prucalopride was studied in an open, parallel-group trial 
in 12 healthy elderly and 12 young subjects (Study PRU-NED-5). Elderly subjects ranged in age from 
65  to  81  years.  Five  of  them  were  75  years  or  older.  A  single  dose  of  1  mg  Prucalopride  was 
administered on day 1, followed by a 7-day treatment with 1 mg o.d. on days 5-11. On both study days 
(1 and 11) Prucalopride was administered in fasting conditions. 
20/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After  once  daily  dosing  of  1  mg,  peak  plasma  concentrations  and  AUC  of  Prucalopride  in  elderly 
subjects were 26% to 28% higher than in young adults . This effect can be attributed to a diminished 
renal function in elderly. The dose in elderly is initially 1 mg, with a possibility to increase to 2 mg, if 
the 1 mg dose is well tolerated.  
Impaired renal function 
The pharmacokinetics of a single oral dose of 2 mg Prucalopride were studied in subjects with various 
degrees  of  renal  impairment  and  compared  to  those  in  subjects  with  normal  renal  function  (Study 
PRU-USA-6).  Compared  to  subjects  with  normal  renal  function,  plasma  concentrations  of 
Prucalopride  after  a  single  2  mg  dose  were  on  average  25%  and  51%  higher  in  subjects  with  mild 
(ClCR 50-79 ml/min) and moderate (ClCR 25-49  ml/min) renal impairment. In subjects with severe 
renal  impairment  (ClCR  ≤  24  ml/min),  plasma  concentrations  were  2.3  times  the  levels  in  normal 
subjects. It is recommended to reduce the dose to 1 mg in subjects with severe renal impairment. It is 
acceptable to have no dose adjustments in patients with mild and moderate renal impairment.  
Impaired hepatic function 
A study in patients with liver impairment will be performed, expected results to be available as final 
report Q3 2011. The applicant recommends a reduced dose in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
as a precautionary measure given the lack of data in this group. The study will clarify in what groups 
of  hepatic  impairment  dose  adjustments  will  be  necessary.  Based  on  the  currently  available  data,  a 
relevant statement is included in the SPC until such time as the new data become available. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro interaction data does not indicate any significant CYP-inhibition potential by Prucalopride.  
In  vivo  drug-drug  interaction  studies  did  not  reveal  important  drug-drug  interactions  including  with 
drugs such as warfarin or digoxin which have narrow safety margins.  However, limited interactions 
were  observed  in  2  occasions:  1)  Prucalopride  enhanced  the  systemic  exposure  of  erythromycin  by 
about 30%, and 2) on co-administration with ketoconazole, Prucalopride plasma levels were increased 
by 40%. Although neither of these findings are likely to have major clinical implications, they were 
unexpected.  The  effect  on  erythromycin  is  likely  explained  by  the  large  variability  in  erythromycin 
absorption. The interaction with ketoconazole is likely explained by an effect on p-gp involving the 
active renal secretion of Prucalopride. Since the active renal secretion stands for approximately 43 % 
of the total elimination, there is another active renal secretion transporter involved in the elimination 
of  Prucalopride,  since  upon  total  inhibition  of  this  pathway  (of  p-gp  and  other  unknown 
transporter(s)), the exposure may theoretically increase up to 75 %.  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Prucalopride is a dihydrobenzofurancarboxamide with enterokinetic activities.  It is a selective, high 
affinity serotonin (5-HT4) receptor agonist, which is likely to explain its enterokinetic effects. Only at 
concentrations exceeding its 5-HT4 receptor affinity by at least 150-fold, affinity for other receptors 
was detected in the in-vitro studies. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamic effects related to the GI prokinetic activity of Prucalopride were studied in healthy 
subjects and in patients with chronic constipation, at doses ranging from 0.5 to 4 mg  
o.d.  Effects  on  GI  and  colonic  transit,  colonic  response  to  eating,  colonic  motility,  and  anorectal 
manometry  were  studied  and  symptoms  associated  with  chronic  constipation  and  bowel  habit  were 
documented.  
Most  pharmacodynamic  studies  using  various  techniques show  that  Prucalopride  accelerates  colonic 
transit,  both  in  healthy  subjects  and  in  patients.  Prucalopride  at  a  dose  of  2  mg  accelerates  colonic 
21/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
transit in healthy volunteers but did not alter gastric emptying or small bowel transit in healthy humans 
(Study PRU-USA-7).  In patients with chronic constipation, Prucalopride 4 mg was significantly more 
effective than placebo in decreasing GI and colonic transit time. The dose of 4 mg also significantly 
increased gastric emptying and small bowel transit. Daily treatment with Prucalopride 2 mg resulted in 
improvements of most pharmacodynamic efficacy measures when compared to placebo though these 
effects  did  not consistently  reach  the level  of  significance,  most  likely  due  to the  small  sample  size 
(Study PRU-USA-21).   
The  data  on  colonic  transit  in the  pharmacodynamic  studies in  healthy  volunteers  and  patients  were 
confirmed by data on total gut and colonic transit measurements performed in the dose-finding Phase 
II studies.  
Clinical efficacy  
The evaluation of efficacy of Prucalopride in the treatment of chronic constipation included 25 phase 
II and 10 phase III studies.   
A tabular overview of key studies is provided in Table 3. 
Table 3.  
Overview of key studies in the Phase II and III programme for Prucalopride 
The  Phase  II  programme  for  Prucalopride  included  6  double-blind  placebo-controlled  studies  to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of different doses (0.5 mg to 4 mg o.d. and 0.5 mg to 2 mg twice daily 
[b.i.d.])  of  Prucalopride  in  patients  with  chronic  constipation.  Three  of  these  studies  (PRU-INT-1, 
PRU-INT-2  and  PRU-USA-3)  provided  the  data  to  support  the  selection  of  dose  for  Phase  III.  In 
addition, one of the studies was performed in frail elderly patients living in a nursing facility (PRU-
USA-26).  
The  Phase  III  programme  included  6  double-blind  placebo-controlled  trials  to  evaluate  the  efficacy 
and safety of oral doses of 2 mg and 4 mg o.d. Prucalopride in adult patients with chronic constipation. 
Three trials (PRU-INT-6, PRU-USA-11 and PRU-USA-13) were the pivotal 12-week trials to support 
the efficacy of Prucalopride.  
In  addition,  one  Phase  III  trial  was  done  to  further  validate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  oral  doses  of 
Prucalopride 1 mg, 2 mg and 4 mg o.d. in elderly patients with chronic constipation (PRU-INT-12). In 
22/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this trial, a 1 mg arm was included because of pharmacokinetic data indicating that a dose reduction in 
the elderly might be warranted and literature data that a number of specific factors may be typical to 
this population and as such may represent a specific subpopulation. 
Further, one trial looked at the effect of retreatment (PRU-USA-28) and one trial looked at the benefit 
of up-titrating (PRU-USA-25). 
•  Dose response studies 
Adults 
The dose selection for Phase III was based on the data from 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 
II dose-finding studies in patients with chronic constipation. The studies evaluated doses in the range 
from 0.5 to 4 mg per day given for 4 to 12 weeks.  These studies are summarised below. 
Study PRU-INT-1 
Study  PRU-INT-1  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group, 
Phase II, dose-finding trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 0.5 mg, 1 mg, or 2 mg Prucalopride in 
patients with chronic constipation. The study consisted of 2 phases: a 4-week drug-free run-in phase 
followed by a 4-week randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment phase. Prucalopride was 
given orally as a capsule o.d. before breakfast. 
The  study  population  included  174  patients  (mean  age:  44.4  [18-73]  years)  with  a  long-standing 
chronic  constipation  with  a  median  duration  of  15 years  (1−60  years).  Between  68%  and  85%  of 
patients  in  each  treatment  group  reported  a  lack  of  adequate  effect  from  diet  changes  or  laxative 
treatment.  Efficacy  was  evaluated  by  means  of  visual  analogue  scale  (VAS)  scores  and  diary  data 
(self-assessment)  and  also  through  symptom  evaluation  and  colonic  transit  time  (investigator 
assessment).  The  main  efficacy  variable  was  the  number  of  days  (extrapolated  to  a  4-week  period) 
with  constipation  determined  by  daily  stool  frequency,  stool  consistency,  presence  of  straining,  and 
laxative  intake.  (If  a  patient  passed  no  stools  for  3  or  more  consecutive  days,  he/she  was  allowed 
bisacodyl as rescue medication.) 
Study PRU-INT-2 
Study  PRU-INT-2  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group, 
Phase II, dose-finding trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 0.5 mg, 1 mg, or 2 mg Prucalopride in 
patients with chronic constipation. The study consisted of 2 phases: a 4-week drug-free run-in phase, 
followed  by  a  12-week  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  treatment  phase.  Prucalopride 
was given orally as a capsule b.i.d. 
The study population, which included 253 patients (mean age: 40.5 [18−70] years) had long-standing 
chronic constipation with a median duration of 15.5 years (0−60 years) and more than 84% of patients 
in  each  treatment  group  had  not  shown  an  adequate  response  to  either  diet  changes  or  laxative 
treatment. Efficacy was evaluated similarly to study PRU-INT-1. 
Study PRU-USA-3 
Study  PRU-USA-3  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group, 
Phase II, dose-comparison trial to assess optimal dose, efficacy and safety of 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 2 mg, or 4 
mg  Prucalopride  in  patients  with  chronic  constipation.  The  trial  consisted  of  3  phases:  a  4-week 
drug-free run-in phase, followed by a 4-week randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment 
phase, followed by a 4-week drug-free run-out phase. Prucalopride was given orally as a capsule o.d. 
before  breakfast  or  in  the  morning.  The  study  population  included  231  patients  (mean  age:  42.1 
[21−70] years). Mean duration of constipation was around 20 years and approximately 80% reported 
inadequate relief with laxatives. The primary efficacy parameter was the proportion of the subjects 
23/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
who had had at least three or more SCBM (spontaneous complete bowel movement) /week at the 
end of double-blind treatment (i.e., endpoint: last 7 days in double-blind phase). 
Across  all  3  studies,  daily  doses  of  2  mg  and  4  mg  of  Prucalopride  consistently  resulted  in  a 
statistically  significant  improvement  of  bowel  habit,  i.e.  increased  stool  frequency,  decreased  stool 
consistency  and  straining,  and  reduction  of  severity  of  constipation  at  4  weeks  of  treatment.  After 
completion  of  PRU-INT-1  and  PRU-INT-2,  a  new  primary  endpoint  was  used  for  the  third  study, 
PRU-USA-3:  ≥3  SCBM  per  week  (i.e.  the  endpoint  later  used  in  Phase  III  studies).  Therefore,  the 
results  of  PRU-USA-3  provided  the  primary  basis  for  Phase  III  dose  selection.  The  results  for  the 
primary efficacy parameter are shown in Table 4 below and show a dose response with 2 and 4 mg 
o.d.  reaching  statistical  significance.  These  results  were  supported  by  the  secondary  endpoints 
including frequency of SCBM and bowel movement as well as assessment of stool hardness, straining 
and the patient’s assessment of efficacy and disease severity.  
Table 4: Primary endpoint data from PRU-USA-3  
Placebo N=45   PRU  0.5  mg 
Parameter  
% of patients with ≥3 SCBM/week  
4-week run-in  
4-week treatment  
0  
13.3  
N=41  
0  
24.4  
***p<0.001, §p<0.05 vs.placebo (2-sided p-value)   
PRU  1  mg 
N=47  
PRU  2  mg 
N=46  
PRU  4  mg 
N=45  
0  
23.4  
0  
32.6§ 
2.2  
 55.6***  
Based on the results of PRU-USA-3, 2 mg o.d. was considered the lowest effective dose in the adult 
population. This was confirmed by a post-hoc analysis including PRU-INT-1, PRU-INT-2 and PRU-
USA-3 using the endpoint of ≥3 SCBM per week.  
Elderly 
Study PRU-INT-12 
A  Phase  III  study  in  an  elderly  population  (PRU-INT-12)  evaluated  the  effects  of  3  doses  of 
Prucalopride (1, 2 and 4 mg o.d.). Because of the pharmacokinetic profile in elderly, the 1 mg dose 
was included in addition to the 2 and the 4 mg o.d. doses. The trial consisted of 2 phases: a 2-week 
drug-free run-in phase followed by a randomised, 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment 
phase. Prucalopride was given orally as tablets o.d. The study included 303 elderly patients (mean age: 
76.4 [64−95] years) with long-standing chronic constipation (mean duration: 21.6 years (1−80 years). 
Between 80.0% and 96.1% of patients had used laxatives prior to the trial in the different treatment 
groups and 79.5% claimed that these agents did not provide adequate relief. At run-in, patients had a 
mean of 0.8 SCBM per week. 
The  results  for  the  key  efficacy  parameters  are  shown  in  Table  5  below.  Data  demonstrate  that  all 
doses, including the 1 mg o.d., were efficacious in the elderly population with chronic constipation. 
Table 5 : Efficacy results by dose from study in elderly patients (PRU-INT-12)  
Placebo 
N=70  
Parameter  
% of patients with ≥3 SCBM/week  
20.0  
% of patients with increase of ≥1 SCBM/week  33.8  
25.8  
%  of  patients  with  improvement  of  ≥1  on 
PAC-QOL satisfaction subscale  
PRU  1  mg 
N=76  
PRU  2  mg 
N=75  
PRU  4  mg 
N=79  
39.5*  
61.1**  
48.5*  
32.0  
56.9*  
29.0  
31.6  
50.7§  
40.9  
**p<0.01; 
*p<0.025 
, 
§<0.05 
vs. 
placebo 
(pairwise 
comparison)   
24/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In summary, based on the results of PRU-USA-3 and taking into account the data generated in PRU-
INT-1 and PRU-INT-2, the doses selected for the pivotal Phase III trials of 2 mg and 4 mg o.d appear 
reasonable.  For  elderly  patients,  the  efficacy  data  indicated  that  a  lower  dose  of  1  mg  o.d.  is 
appropriate and this was supported by the pharmacokinetic data showing an increase in exposure in 
this population.  
•  Main studies  
The evidence of efficacy was shown in 3 identically designed double-blind placebo-controlled studies 
in  patients  with  chronic  constipation  (PRU-INT-6,  PRU-USA-11,  PRU-USA-13).    One  was 
performed in Europe and two in the USA using 2 and 4 mg o.d. oral doses of Prucalopride.  
Trial  PRU-INT-6  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group 
trial to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and effect on quality of life of Prucalopride 2 and 4 mg including 
716 male and female patients (mean age 43.9 [17−89] years) with chronic constipation.   
Trial  PRU-USA-11  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group 
trial to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and effect on quality of life of 2 and 4 mg Prucalopride including 
620 male and female patients (mean age 48.3 [18−85] years) with chronic constipation. 
Trial  PRU-USA-13  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group 
trial to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and effect on quality of life of 2 and 4 mg Prucalopride including 
641 male and female patients (mean age 47.9 [18−95] years) with chronic constipation. 
These  trials  are  described  together.  However,  the  results  of  the  different  studies  are  presented  both 
individually, for the primary and most important secondary endpoints, and in pooled data analyses. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
An overview on patient demographics for the Phase III pivotal trials is given in Table 6. 
25/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 
Patients were included based on the following criteria: 2 or fewer SBMs per week in the previous 6 
months  and,  in  addition,  very  hard  (little  balls)  or  hard  stools  and/or  a  sensation  of  incomplete 
evacuation and/or straining during defecation, at least a quarter of the stools. The inclusion criteria are 
based  on  the  accepted  definition  of  chronic  constipation.  Exclusion  of  patients  with  irritable  bowel 
syndrome (IBS) was based on the Rome Working Group definition of IBS.  
During a 2-week drug-free run-in phase (Weeks -2 through 0), the patients recorded their bowel habits 
and any use of rescue medication (bisacodyl) in daily diaries to confirm the existence of constipation. 
Organic disorders as a cause of constipation were ruled out using the results of either a barium enema 
or  a  colonoscopy.  The  run-in  phase  included  physical  examination,  medical  history,  recording  of 
concomitant  therapies,  safety  laboratory  tests,  vital  signs  and  electrocardiogram  (ECG)  and 
pharmacokinetic evaluation. The patients were eligible for the 12-week double-blind treatment phase 
(Weeks 0 through 12) if their diary data during run-in confirmed that they met the entry criteria for 
chronic  constipation.  Patients  who  did  not  meet  the  criteria  were  considered  ineligible  and  were 
discontinued from the study. 
Table  7  below  provides  a  summary  of  the  constipation  history  prior  to  enrolment  into  the  pivotal 
studies. 
26/49 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: History of constipation for Phase III pivotal studies (PRU-INT-6, PRU-USA-11, PRU- USA-13) in 
patients with chronic constipation - ITT population  
Parameter  
Duration of constipation, years  
Mean (SE)  
Median (min;max)  
Placebo N=645  PRU 2 mg  
N=640  
PRU 4 mg 
N=639 
All PRU  
N=1279  
20.44 (0.616) 
20 (0.5 ; 77)  
19.84 (0.622) 
16 (0.5 ; 70)  
20.18 (0.643) 
17 (0.3 ; 82)  
20.01 (0.447) 
16 (0.3 ; 82)  
Average freq./week spontaneous bowel movement over previous 6 months, n (%)  
No spontaneous BM 
 >0 and ≤1  
>1 and ≤3 
 >3  
251 (39.2)  
224 (35.0)  
153 (23.9)  
12 (1.9)  
259 (40.2)  
224 (34.7)  
153 (23.7)  
9 (1.4)  
262 (41.0)  
206 (32.2)  
155 (24.3)  
16 (2.5)  
513 (40.1)  
430 (33.6)  
308 (24.1) 
28 (2.2)  
386 (30.2)  
311 (24.3)  
187 (14.6)  
180 (14.1)  
145 (11.3)  
70 (5.5)  
185 (28.7)  
163 (25.3)  
98 (15.2)  
95 (14.7) 
68 (10.5) 
36 (5.6)  
202 (31.6)  
152 (23.8)  
102 (15.9) 
83 (13.0)  
65 (10.2)  
36 (5.6)  
184 (28.8)  
159 (24.9)  
85 (13.3)  
97 (15.2)  
80 (12.5) 
34 (5.3)  
89 (13.8)  
556 (86.2)  
92 (14.4)  
548 (85.6)  
98 (15.3)  
541 (84.7)  
190 (14.9) 
1089 (85.1)  
106 (17.0)  
516 (83.0)  
115 (18.5)  
507 (81.5)  
100 (16.2)  
517 (83.8)  
215 (17.4) 
1024 (82.6)  
Subject main complaint, n (%)  
Infrequent defecation 
 Abdominal bloating  
Abdominal pain  
Feeling not completely empty 
Straining  
Hard stools  
Laxative taken, n (%)  
No  
Yes  
Overall therapeutic effect, n (%)  
Adequate  
Inadequate  
Treatments & assessments 
Eligible  patients  admitted  to  the  double-blind  phase  were  randomly  allocated  to  one  of  3  treatment 
arms:  Prucalopride  (2  or  4  mg),  or  matching  placebo  given  once  daily  before  breakfast  or  in  the 
morning if they didn’t eat breakfast, starting on the day after the randomisation visit.  
Patients  continued  to  maintain  their  daily  diaries  throughout  the  12-week  double-blind  treatment 
phase. Visits were scheduled for the end of Weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12. At each visit, the patients provided 
global assessments of their constipation severity and the therapeutic effect of study medication on 5-
point Likert scales [absent (0), mild (1), moderate (2), severe (3) and very severe (4)] and completed a 
Patient  Assessment  of  Constipation-Symptoms  questionnaire  (PAC-SYM)  regarding  specific 
symptoms  of  constipation.  The  patients  also  completed  2  health-related  QOL  questionnaires,  the 
Patient Assessment of Constipation-Quality of Life questionnaire (PAC-QOL) and the 36-item Short 
Form Health Survey (SF-36™) at the randomisation visit (Visit 2) and after 4 and 12 weeks of double-
blind treatment without assistance in interpretation of the questionnaire. 
Blood samples were taken for determination of Prucalopride plasma concentrations at predefined time 
points. 
Safety  and  tolerability,  including  recording  of  AEs,  clinical  laboratory  tests,  vital  signs,  physical 
examination including body weight, and ECG, were assessed at scheduled visits during the treatment 
period. 
Objectives 
To evaluate the efficacy, safety and effect on the quality of life of  2 & 4 mg Prucalopride in patients 
with chronic constipation. 
27/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary parameter was the proportion (%) of patients with an average of 3 or more spontaneous, 
complete bowel movements per week (responders, ≥3 SCBM/week). The key time-points included the 
entire  double-blind  phase  (Weeks  1  through  12),  and  the  double-blind  phase  of  Weeks  1  through  4 
(first 4 weeks). A bowel movement was defined as spontaneous if no laxatives were taken in the 24 
hours  preceding  that  bowel  movement.  If  a  time  of  laxative  use  was  recorded  on  a  diary,  but  the 
number of tablets was not recorded, it was assumed that laxative use occurred then. If the number of 
laxative tablets was recorded, but no time, the time of laxative use was imputed. 
A bowel movement was considered complete only if the patient responded ‘yes’ to the diary question 
‘Did the  stool  make  you  feel like  you  completely  emptied  your  bowels?’.  On some  diaries,  patients 
ticked the box for this question instead of filling in 0 (for ‘no’) or 1 (for ‘yes’).  In this case, it was 
assumed  that  the  patient  was  answering  the  question  in  the  affirmative.  Bowel  movements  with 
missing values for this parameter were considered as not complete. 
If, based on the primary imputation method, at least 5% of randomised patients had missing values for 
average SCBM/week, they were considered non-responders for the primary parameter. 
The main secondary endpoint was the proportion of patients with an average increase of ≥1 SCBM per 
week from run-in. 
Other secondary endpoints included:  
(cid:57) Time to first spontaneous bowel movement (SBM) and the average SBM per week. 
(cid:57) Stools consistency and severity of constipation 
(cid:57) Use of laxatives 
(cid:57) Evaluation  of  the  patient  assessment  of  constipation  symptoms  using  validated  Patient 
Assessment of Constipation – Symptoms (PAC-SYM) and quality of life Patient Assessment 
of Constipation – Quality of Life (PAC-QOL) questionnaires.  
Sample size 
There were 720 patients randomised into trial PRU-INT-6, 628 into trial PRU-USA-11 and 651 into 
trial PRU-USA-13. 
Randomisation 
Patients  were  randomly  allocated  to  the  treatments  groups  using  a  randomisation  code  stratified  by 
centre. 
Blinding (masking) 
All  study  medication  was  supplied  in  identically  appearing  containers  that  were  labelled  with  the 
protocol number, medication number, week number, and number of tablets (18 tablets at Visits 2 and 
3; 36 tablets at Visits 4 and 5). Tablets were identical in appearance, taste, and smell. 
Statistical methods 
All randomised patients who took at least one dose of double-blind study medication were included in 
the analysis of safety, demographic, and baseline characteristic data (all-[treated] subjects population). 
Analyses of efficacy and QOL data were based on the intent-to-treat (ITT) population, defined as all 
randomised patients who took at least one dose of double-blind study medication and who provided 
any  follow-up  data  for  one  or  more  key  efficacy  variables;  in  turn,  ITT  patients  were  allocated  to 
treatments actually received. 
28/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because there were a substantial number of protocol violators, an additional per-protocol analysis was 
performed  for  a  selection  of  the  efficacy  parameters  to  determine  whether  they  influenced  the 
conclusions.  
The per-protocol population is the ITT population with the following exclusions: 
•  Patients with, on average, >2 SCBM per week during the run-in. 
•  Patients  with,  on  average,  ≤2  SCBM  per  week  during  run-in  but  without  the  straining, 
consistency, or completeness inclusion criteria fulfilled. 
•  Patients  with  average  number  of  days  per  week  with  laxative  use  >3.0  over  the  entire 
treatment period. 
•  Patients with treatment duration less than 63 days (i.e. 75% out of 84 days) or more than 96 
days. 
•  Patients with less than an average of 0.75 tablets of study medication taken per day over the 
entire treatment period (i.e. less than 75% compliant). 
All statistical tests were interpreted at the 5% significance level (2-sided) unless specified otherwise. 
Primary endpoint 
The  difference  between  each  active  treatment  group  and  placebo  was  analysed  using  the  Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test controlling for investigator/country. 
Secondary endpoints 
Endpoints based upon proportions were analysed in the same way as the primary endpoint. 
Continuous endpoints were analysed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with treatment, run-in 
value and investigator/country as factors. Ordinal categorical parameters with more than 10 categories 
were considered as continuous parameters and thus change from baseline scores on a 5-point scale or 
higher were considered as continuous data. 
The  Van  Elteren  test  controlling  for  investigator/country  was  used  for  the  between-treatment  group 
comparison of ordinal categorical variables with less than 10 categories. 
Time to event data were analysed by the methods for survival data analysis. The Kaplan- 
Meier  curve  was  used  to  describe  the  distribution  and  the  log-rank  test  was  used  for  the  between-
treatment group comparison. 
Adjustments for multiplicity 
No  adjustment  was  made  for  the  2  primary  time-periods  (weeks  1-4  and  weeks  1-12)  which  were 
considered  for  the  primary  endpoint.  This  means  that  both  time-periods  are  required  to  produce 
statistically significant results for the trial to be considered positive. 
To adjust for comparing the two doses against placebo, Holm’s step-down procedure was used. If both 
p-values are greater than 0.025 then neither dose is considered superior to placebo. If both p-values are 
less  then  0.05  and  the  smallest  is  also  less  than  0.025  then  both  doses  are  considered  superior  to 
placebo.  If  one  p-value  is  less  than  0.025  but  the  other  is  greater  than  0.05,  then  only  the  dose 
associated with the smaller p-value is considered superior to placebo. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The  majority  of  patients  completed  the  trials  as  planned.  The  most  common  reason  for  premature 
discontinuation was adverse events, with the frequency of withdrawal being highest in the 4mg group. 
29/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8a: PRU-INT-6 
Placebo 
2 mg 
4 mg 
Screened (n=865) 
Randomised 
Not treated 
Completed 
Withdrawn 
  Adverse event 
  Insufficient response  7 
1 
  Ineligible 
1 
  Lost to follow-up 
5 
  Withdrew consent 
1 
  Non-compliant 
2 
  Other 
242 
4 
238 
0 
240 
0 
207 (86%)  207 (87%)  183 (76%) 
55 (23%) 
31 (13%) 
33 (14%) 
35 (14%) 
15 (6%) 
16 (7%) 
5 
3 
1 
1 
2 
3 
8 
5 
2 
0 
2 
4 
Table 8b: PRU-USA-11 
Placebo 
2 mg 
4 mg 
Screened (n=832) 
Randomised 
Not treated 
Completed 
Withdrawn 
  Adverse event 
  Insufficient response  5 
0 
  Ineligible 
3 
  Lost to follow-up 
7 
  Withdrew consent 
4 
  Non-compliant 
4 
  Other 
205 
1 
210 
3 
213 
4 
182 (85%)  172 (82%)  173 (84%) 
31 (15%) 
35 (17%) 
27 (13%) 
16 (8%) 
18 (9%) 
4 (2%) 
1 
2 
0 
3 
2 
3 
5 
3 
4 
4 
3 
2 
Table 8c: PRU-USA-13 
Placebo 
2 mg 
4 mg 
Screened (n=880) 
Randomised 
Not treated 
Completed 
Withdrawn 
  Adverse event 
  Insufficient response  3 
3 
  Ineligible 
2 
  Lost to follow-up 
5 
  Withdrew consent 
1 
  Non-compliant 
5 
  Other 
216 
2 
221 
6 
214 
2 
188 (88%)  194 (90%)  185 (84%) 
30 (14%) 
20 (9%) 
24 (11%) 
13 (6%) 
8 (4%) 
5 (2%) 
0 
1 
0 
0 
2 
3 
7 
4 
3 
4 
5 
0 
Recruitment 
For PRU-INT-6 the first subject visit was 13 March 1998 and the last subject visit was 19 July 1999. 
For PRU-USA-11 the first subject visit was 2 April 1998 and the last subject visit was 24 May 1999. 
For PRU-USA-13 the first subject visit was 18 March 1998 and the last subject visit was 4 May 1999. 
Conduct of the study 
In trial PRU-USA-13 there were 50 patients from 2 sites who were excluded from the ITT population 
because of poor trial conduct 
30/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
The  treatment  groups  were  comparable  at  baseline  for  SCMB  per  week,  the  basis  of  the  primary 
efficacy analysis. 
Table 9: Average frequency of SCBM during the 2-week run-in (SCBM/week) – ITT population 
2mg 
Placebo 
n  Mean (se)  n  Mean 
239  0.4 (0.05)  236  0.4 (0.05) 237 0.5 (0.05)
PRU-INT-6 
PRU-USA-11  192  0.4 (0.05)  189  0.5 (0.05) 187 0.5 (0.05)
PRU-USA-13  212  0.4 (0.05)  213  0.4 (0.04) 215 0.5 (0.07)
4mg 
n  Mean 
Numbers analysed 
Two sites were excluded from analyses of efficacy data in study PRU- USA-11, due to ignoring good 
clinical practice rules, giving an ITT analyses set of 570 patients for this trial. 
Table 10a: PRU-INT-6 
Randomised 
Treated 
ITT population  240 (100%)  236 (99%) 
203 (85%) 
Per-protocol 
Placebo 
240 
240 (100%)  238 (100%)  238 (98%) 
237 (98%) 
173 (71%) 
4 mg 
242 
2 mg 
238 
183 (76%) 
Table 10b: PRU-USA-11 
Placebo 
213 
209 (98%)  207 (99%)  204 (>99%) 
Randomised 
Treated 
ITT population  193 (91%)  190 (90%)  187 (91%) 
157 (74%)  152 (72%)  155 (76%) 
Per-protocol 
4 mg 
205 
2 mg 
210 
Table 10c: PRU-USA-13 
Placebo 
214 
Randomised 
Treated 
212 (99%)  214 (99%)  215 (97%) 
ITT population  212 (99%)  214 (99%)  215 (97%) 
Per-protocol 
186 (87%)  185 (86%)  171 (77%) 
Outcomes and estimation 
4 mg 
221 
2 mg 
216 
Study PRU-INT-6 
Over  the  12-week  treatment  period,  19.5%  and  23.6%  of  patients  in  the  Prucalopride  2  and  4  mg 
groups, respectively, had ≥3 SCBM per week, as compared with 9.6% of placebo-treated patients (2 
mg p≤0.01; 4 mg p≤0.001). Over Weeks 1 through 4, 23.7% and 26.6% of patients in the Prucalopride 
2  and  4  mg  groups,  respectively,  had  ≥3 SCBM  per  week  compared  with  10.4%  of  placebo-treated 
patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). 
Table 11: Proportion of patients with ≥3 SCBM/week – ITT population 
Weeks 1-12 
   95% CI, p-value 
Weeks 1-4 
   95% CI, p-value 
Placebo 
23/240 (9.6%) 
2mg 
46/236 (19.5%) 
(4, 16), p=0.002 
25/240 (10.4%)  56/236 (23.7%) 
(7, 20), p<0.001 
4mg 
56/237 (23.6%) 
(7, 21) p<0.001 
63/237 (26.6%) 
(9, 23) p<0.001 
For the main secondary parameter (the proportion of patients with an average increase of ≥1 SCBM 
per  week  from  run-in),  significant  improvements  were  seen  for  both  Prucalopride  2 and  4  mg 
treatment  groups  compared  with  placebo.  Over  the  12-week  treatment  period,  the  proportion  of 
patients  with  an  average  increase  of  ≥1  SCBM  per  week  was  38.1%  and  44.1%  in  the  2  and  4  mg 
31/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groups, respectively, compared with 20.9% of placebo patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). Over Weeks 
1  through  4,  41%  and  46%  of  patients  in  the  Prucalopride  2  and  4 mg  groups,  respectively,  had  an 
increase of ≥1 SCBM per week, compared with 20.9% of placebo patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). 
Prucalopride significantly improved the time to first bowel movement when compared with placebo. 
The median time required to have the first SCBM in the Prucalopride 2 and 4 mg groups was 113 and 
49.5 hours after the first dose, respectively, compared with 493 hours in the placebo group (p≤0.001, 
in  both  cases).    Prucalopride  significantly  reduced  laxative  use  when  compared  to  placebo.  The 
average  number  of  bisacodyl  tablets  taken  per  week  was  approximately  2  in  all  treatment  groups 
during  the  baseline  period.  The  mean  decrease  during  the  12-week  treatment  period  was  0.8  in  the 
Prucalopride 2 mg group, 0.6 in the Prucalopride 4 mg group, and 0.2 tablets taken per week in the 
placebo group. The average weekly bisacodyl use over the 12-week treatment period was significantly 
lower in each of the Prucalopride groups compared to placebo (p≤0.003). Enema use was rare in all 
treatment groups. The average number of days with laxative use per week during the baseline period 
(approximately 1 day per week) was comparable in all treatment groups. Despite this low number, the 
mean  decrease  observed  during  both  the  12-week  and  4-week  treatment  period  in  the  Prucalopride 
groups (ranging from -0.3 to -0.4) was significantly greater than the change on placebo (range -0.1 to 
-0.2; p<0.001).  
Statistically  significant  decreases  in  severity  from  run-in  were  seen  for  the  overall  score,  stool 
symptoms  and  abdominal symptoms  on  the  validated  PAC-SYM  questionnaire in  both  Prucalopride 
groups compared with placebo.  
The patients completed a disease-specific and validated quality of life questionnaire (PAC-QOL). On a 
scale of 0 to 4, with 4 representing the lowest satisfaction with overall bowel habits, the mean run-in 
scores for satisfaction ranged from 3.08 to 3.17 across treatment groups. During the course of the trial, 
the mean scores improved to 2.22 to 2.34 in the Prucalopride groups and to 2.85 to 2.89 in the placebo 
group.  The  magnitude  of  improvement  from  baseline  was  2  to  3  times  greater  in  the  Prucalopride 
groups (i.e. -0.76 to -0.87) when compared with placebo (i.e. -0.26 to -0.30; p<0.001). At Weeks 4 and 
12, the proportion of patients with an improvement from run-in of at least 1 point in the PAC-QOL 
satisfaction score was 42.8% and 45.6%, respectively, in the Prucalopride 2 mg group and 44.6% and 
45.8%, respectively, in the Prucalopride 4 mg group, compared with 22.8% and 21.8%, respectively, 
with placebo (p≤0.001, in all cases). 
Study PRU-USA-11 
Over  the  12-week  treatment  period,  28.9%  of  patients  in  the  Prucalopride  2  and  4 mg  groups  had 
≥3 SCBM per week as compared with 13% of placebo-treated patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). Over 
Weeks 1 through 4, 32.1% and 37.4% of patients in the Prucalopride 2 and 4 mg groups, respectively, 
had ≥3 SCBM per week compared with 9.8% of placebo-treated patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). 
Table 12:  Proportion of patients with ≥3 SCBM/week – ITT population 
Weeks 1-12 
   95% CI, p-value 
Weeks 1-4 
   95% CI, p-value 
2mg 
Placebo 
25/193 (13.0%)  55/190 (28.9%) 
(8, 24), p<0.001 
61/190 (32.1%) 
(14, 30), p<0.001 
19/193 (9.9%) 
4mg 
54/187 (28.9%) 
(8, 24) p<0.001  
70/187 (37.4%) 
(19, 36) p<0.001 
For the main secondary parameter (the proportion of patients with an average increase of ≥1 SCBM 
per  week  from  run-in),  significant  improvements  were  seen  for  both  the  Prucalopride  2 and  4  mg 
treatment  groups  compared  with  placebo.  Over  the  12-week  treatment  period,  the  proportion  of 
patients  with  an  average  increase  of  ≥1  SCBM  per  week  was  50.3%  and  51.1%  in  the  2  and  4  mg 
groups, respectively, compared with 25.9% of placebo patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). Over Weeks 
1 through 4, 56.5% and 58.8% of patients in the Prucalopride 2 and 4 mg groups, respectively, had an 
increase of ≥1 SCBM per week, compared with 24.3% of placebo patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). 
Prucalopride significantly improved the time to first bowel movement when compared with placebo. 
The median time required to have the first SCBM in the Prucalopride 2 and 4 mg groups was 32.5 and 
25 hours after the first dose, respectively, compared with 297 hours in the placebo group (p≤0.001, in 
32/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
both cases).  Prucalopride significantly reduced laxative use when compared with placebo. The mean 
number  of  bisacodyl tablets  taken  per  week  was  approximately  2  in  all  treatment  groups  during  the 
run-in  period.  The  mean  decrease  per  week  during  the  12-week  treatment  period  was  1.1  in  the 
Prucalopride 2 mg group, 0.7 in the Prucalopride 4 mg group, and 0 tablets in the placebo group. The 
average weekly bisacodyl use over the 12-week treatment period was significantly lower in each of the 
Prucalopride  groups  compared  with  placebo  (p≤0.001,  in  both  cases).  Enema  use  was  rare  in  all 
treatment groups. The average number of days with laxative use or enema per week during the run-in 
period  (approximately  1  day  per  week)  was  comparable  in  all  treatment  groups.  Despite  this  low 
number,  the  mean  decrease  observed  during  both  the  12-week  and  4-week  treatment  periods  in  the 
Prucalopride  groups  (ranging  from  0.3  to  0.5)  was  significantly  greater  than  the  decrease  in  the 
placebo group (range 0 to 0.1; p≤0.001, in all cases).  
Statistically  significant  decreases  in  severity  from  run-in  were  seen  for  the  overall  score,    stool 
symptoms and abdominal symptoms on the validated PAC-SYM questionnaire for both Prucalopride 
groups compared with placebo (for stool symptoms: at Week 12 only significant for the 4 mg dose vs. 
placebo).  
The patients completed a disease-specific and validated quality of life questionnaire (PAC-QOL). On a 
scale of 0 to 4, with 4 representing the lowest satisfaction with overall bowel habits, the mean run-in 
scores  ranged  from  3.33  to  3.38  across  treatment  groups.  During  the  course  of  the  trial,  the  mean 
scores  improved  to  2.22  -  2.43  in  the  Prucalopride  groups  and  to  2.95  -  3.10  in  the  placebo  group 
(p≤0.001). The magnitude of improvement from baseline was 4 to 5 times greater in the Prucalopride 
groups (i.e. -0.97 to -1.16) when compared with the placebo group (i.e. -0.20 to -0.32; p<0.001)). At 
Weeks 4 and 12, the proportion of patients with an improvement from run-in of at least 1 point in the 
PAC-QOL satisfaction score was 53.5% and 47.1%, respectively, in the Prucalopride 2 mg group and 
51.2%  and  47.8%,  respectively,  in  the  Prucalopride  4  mg  group,  compared  with  18.5%  and  25.2%, 
respectively, with placebo (p≤0.001, in all cases). 
Study PRU-USA-13 
Over  the  12-week  treatment  period,  23.9%  and  23.5%  of  patients  in  the  Prucalopride  2  and  4  mg 
groups,  respectively,  had  ≥3  SCBM  per  week  as  compared  with  12.1%  of  placebo-treated  patients 
(p≤0.01,  in  both  cases).  Over  Weeks  1  through  4,  29.2%  and  28.9%  of  patients  in  the  Prucalopride 
2 and  4  mg  groups,  respectively,  had  ≥3  SCBM  per  week  compared  with  11.5%  of  placebo-treated 
patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). 
Table 13:  Proportion of patients with ≥3 SCBM/week – ITT population 
Weeks 1-12 
   95% CI, p-value 
Weeks 1-4 
   95% CI, p-value 
Missing=failure* 
Weeks 1-12 
Weeks 1-4 
2mg 
Placebo 
25/207 (12.1%)  50/209 (23.9%) 
(5, 19), p=0.002 
24/208 (11.5%)  61/209 (29.2%) 
(10, 25), p<0.001 
4mg 
48/204 (23.5%) 
(4, 19) p=0.003  
59/204 (28.9%) 
(10, 25) p<0.001 
25/212 (11.8%)  50/214 (23.4%) 
24/212 (11.3%)  61/214 (28.5%) 
48/215 (22.3%) 
59/215 (27.4%) 
95% CI and p-values for difference from placebo in response rates (%). 
*INT-6 and USA-11 use missing=failure as the primary analysis, so these figures are the best ones to compare to 
the other trials.  
For the main secondary parameter (the proportion of patients with an average increase of ≥1 SCBM 
per week from run-in), significant improvements were seen for both the Prucalopride 2 and the 4 mg 
treatment  groups  compared  with  placebo.  Over  the  12-week  treatment  period,  the  proportion  of 
patients with an average increase of ≥1 SCBM per week was 42.6 % and 46.6 % in the 2 and 4 mg 
groups, respectively, compared with 27.5% of placebo patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). Over Weeks 
1 through 4, 48.8% and 51.5% of patients in the Prucalopride 2 and 4 mg groups, respectively, had an 
increase of ≥1 SCBM per week, compared with 25.5% of placebo patients (p≤0.001, in both cases). 
33/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prucalopride significantly improved the time to first bowel movement when compared with placebo. 
The median time required to have the first SCBM in the Prucalopride 2 and 4 mg groups was 55 and 
46 hours after the first dose, respectively, compared with 311 hours in the placebo group (p≤0.001, in 
both cases).   Prucalopride significantly reduced laxative use when compared with placebo. The mean 
number  of  bisacodyl tablets  taken  per  week  was  approximately  2  in  all  treatment  groups  during  the 
run-in period. The mean decrease during the 12-week treatment period was 0.7 in the Prucalopride 2 
mg group, 1 in the Prucalopride 4 mg group, and 0.1 tablets in the placebo group. The average weekly 
bisacodyl use over the 12-week treatment period was significantly lower in each of the Prucalopride 
groups compared with placebo (2 mg p≤0.01; p≤0.001). Enema use was rare in all treatment groups. 
The average number of days with laxative use per week during the run-in period (approximately 1 day 
per  week)  was  comparable  in  all  treatment  groups.  Despite  this  low  number,  the  mean  decrease 
observed during both the 12-week and 4-week treatment periods in the Prucalopride groups (ranging 
from -0.3 to -0.5) was significantly greater than the change with placebo (-0.1; p≤0.001, except for 2 
mg at Weeks 1 through 4: p≤0.05).  
Statistically  significant  decreases  in  severity  from  run-in  were  seen  for  the  overall  score,  stool 
symptoms and abdominal symptoms on the validated PAC-SYM questionnaire for both Prucalopride 
groups compared with placebo (for stool symptoms: at Week 12 only 2 mg was statistically significant 
from placebo).  
The patients completed a disease-specific and validated quality of life questionnaire (PAC-QOL). On a 
scale of 0 to 4, with 4 representing the lowest satisfaction with overall bowel habits, the mean baseline 
ranged  from  3.37  to  3.43  across  treatment  groups.  During  the  course  of  the  trial,  the  mean  scores 
improved  to  2.42  to  2.51  in  the  Prucalopride  groups  and  to  3.01  to  3.06  in  the  placebo  group.  The 
magnitude of improvement from baseline was 2 to 3 times greater in the Prucalopride groups (i.e. -
0.86  to  -0.97)  when  compared  with  placebo  (i.e. -0.39 to  -0.44;  p<0.001).  At  Weeks  4  and  12,  the 
proportion  of  patients  with  an  improvement  from  run-in  of  at  least  1  point  in  the  PAC-QOL 
satisfaction score was 42.6% and 43.5%, respectively, in the Prucalopride 2 mg group, and 44.8% and 
44.4%,  respectively,  in  the  Prucalopride  4  mg  group,  compared  with  22.3%  and  26%,  respectively, 
with placebo (p≤0.001, in all cases). 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Pooled data from the three pivotal trials 
(cid:190) Primary Efficacy Endpoint  
The  results  of  the  primary  endpoint  for  the  pooled  data  from  the  3  pivotal  studies  are  presented  in 
Table 14 and Figure 4 shows the results by study. Results of the 3 studies are consistent in showing a 
statistically significantly higher proportion of patients with ≥3 SCBM per week in Prucalopride 2 mg 
and 4 mg treatment groups when compared to placebo. Over the 12-week treatment period, 23.6% of 
patients receiving Prucalopride 2 mg achieved  ≥3 SCBMs per week, compared to 11.3% of placebo 
patients. The positive effect of treatment was evident over the first 4 weeks and was maintained over 
the 12 weeks of the study. The 4 mg results did not provide a significant incremental benefit over the 2 
mg.  
Table 14:  Number (%) of patients with ≥3 SCBM per week – pooled data from PRU-INT-6, PRUUSA-11, 
PRU-USA-13 – ITT population  
Placebo N=645  
PRU 2 mg N=640  
PRU 4 mg N=639  
Time-point  
Run-in  
Weeks 1-12  
Weeks 1-4 
Weeks 5-8 
Weeks 9-12  
N  
n (%)  
643   4 (0.6)  
645   73 (11.3)  
645 
628 
630  
68 (10.5) 83 
(13.2) 89 (14.1)  
N  
n (%)  
638   5 (0.8)  
640   151 (23.6)***  
178 (27.8)*** 
640 
147 (24.0)*** 
612 
154 (25.2)***  
612  
N  
639  
639  
639 
592 
593  
n (%)  
8 (1.3)  
158 (24.7)***  
192 (30.0)*** 
152 (25.7)*** 
152 (25.6)***  
34/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
***p<0.001 vs. placebo (pairwise comparison)  
Figure 4: Number (%) of patients with ≥3 SCBM per week in each of the 3 pivotal studies  
***p<0.001 vs. placebo  
(cid:190) Increase of ≥1 SCBM per week  
Table  15  shows  the  proportion  of  patients  with  an  average  increase  of  1  SCBM  per  week  for  the 
pooled  population.  These  data  indicate  that  43.1%  of  the  patients  that  received  2  mg  Prucalopride 
compared to 24.6% of placebo-treated patients had an increase of at least 1 SCBM per week. The 4 mg 
results did not provide a significant incremental benefit over the 2 mg.  
Table 15: Number (%) of patients with an average increase of ≥1 SCBM per week – pooled data from 
PRU-INT-6, PRU-USA-11, PRU-USA-13 –ITT population  
Placebo N=645  
PRU 2 mg N=640  
PRU 4 mg N=639  
Time-point  
≥1 SCBM/week increase  
Weeks 1-12  
Weeks 1-4  
Weeks 5-8  
Weeks 9-12  
N  
n (%)  
N  
n (%)  
N  
n (%)  
630   155 (24.6)  
148 (23.4)  
632 
165 (26.3)  
628 
157 (24.9)  
630  
612  
613 
612 
612  
264 (43.1)***  
295 (48.1)*** 
254 (41.5)*** 
245 (40.0)***  
593   279 (47.0)***  
308 (51.7)*** 
596 
265 (44.8)*** 
592 
248 (41.8)***  
593  
***p<0.001 vs. placebo (pairwise comparison)   
(cid:190) Quality of Life Assessment  
A  consistent  significant  improvement  in  patient  satisfaction  with  treatment  and  their  bowel  habits 
(subscale of PAC-QOL) was observed with Prucalopride across the pivotal Phase III studies. Table 16 
shows the proportion of patients who had a ≥1-point improvement in the satisfaction subscale score 
(on  a  5-point  scale):  45.3%  of  patients  on  Prucalopride  2  mg  compared  to  21.3%  on  placebo.  This 
improvement  in  satisfaction  score  is  important  given  the  high  level  of  dissatisfaction  expressed  at 
baseline in these studies (mean score >3 on a 0 to 4 scale, with 4 representing the lowest satisfaction).  
35/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The improvement  with  Prucalopride  was  also  statistically  significant  when  compared to  placebo  for 
the  overall  PAC-QOL  and  each  of  the  remaining  subscales  (physical  discomfort,  psychosocial 
discomfort, worries and concerns) at every time-point (p<0.001).   
Table 16:  Proportion of patients with improvement of ≥1 in PAC-QOL satisfaction score – pooled data 
from PRU-INT-6, PRU-USA-11, PRU-USA-13 – ITT population  
Placebo N=645  
PRU 2 mg N=640  
PRU 4 mg N=639  
Time-point  
Week 4a  
Week 12a  
N  
n (%)  
605   129 (21.3)  
618   137 (22.2)  
N  
598  
621  
n (%)  
271 (45.3)***  
273 (44.0)***  
N  
n (%)  
588   270 (45.9)***  
603   261 (43.3)***  
a Data at endpoint  
***p<0.001 vs. placebo (pairwise comparison)   
The  clinical  relevance  of  these  results  has  been  assessed  by  looking  at  the  correlation  between 
improvements in the quality of life and other efficacy assessments. This analysis showed that subjects 
with  a  1-point  improvement  on  the  satisfaction  subscale  also  have  improvements  on  other  efficacy 
parameters  such  as  change  in  percentage  of  patients  with  at  least  3  SCBM  per  week  (primary 
endpoint), patients’ global evaluation of the severity of constipation-related symptoms, and patients’ 
global  evaluation  of  the  efficacy  treatment.  More  patients  on  Prucalopride  than  on  placebo  had  a 
higher  improvement  in  the  PAC-QOL  satisfaction  score,  as  can  be  observed  from  the  cumulative 
distribution curves.  
•  Ancillary analysis 
Gender effect 
Most  studies  were  conducted  in  (Caucasian)  women  with  chronic  constipation.  The  majority  of 
patients in the pivotal trials were female: 89.9% of the patients in the placebo group and 87.9% of all 
Prucalopride-treated patients. Female patients in the Prucalopride 2 mg group were more sensitive to 
the  beneficial  effect  of  treatment  than  males,  but  at  the  4  mg  dose,  there  were  no  clear  differences 
between the sexes. The analysis of the proportion of patients with an average increase of ≥1 SCBM by 
sex yielded similar findings. 
Table 17:  Number (%) of patients with ≥3 SCBM per week by sex – pooled data from PRU-USA-11, 
PRU-USA-13, PRU-INT-6 – ITT population 
Placebo  
N 
n (%) 
Time-point 
Female n (%) 
Run-in 
Weeks 1-12 
Weeks-1-4 
Male n (%) 
Run-in 
Weeks 1-12 
Weeks 1-4 
***p<0.001 vs. placebo (pairwise comparison) 
578  4 (0.7) 
580  62 (10.7) 
580  58 (10.0) 
0 (0.0) 
11 (16.9) 
10 (15.4) 
65 
65 
65 
PRU 2 mg 
N 
n (%) 
PRU 4 mg 
N 
n (%) 
565  5 (0.9) 
566  138 (24.4)*** 
566  166 (29.3)*** 
558  7 (1.3) 
558  136 (24.4)*** 
558  169 (30.3)*** 
73 
74 
74 
0 (0.0) 
13 (17.6) 
12 (16.2) 
81 
81 
81 
1 (1.2) 
22 (27.2) 
23 (28.4) 
The number of males in the studies was low, about 10%. Furthermore, the results for the men are not 
statistically  significant  but  there  appears  to  be  a  trend  that  male  patients  require  a  higher  dose.  In 
addition, the placebo response was higher in the male population, which further makes the assessment 
more  difficult.  Hence,  the  pivotal  studies  were  conducted  almost  exclusively  in  women.  This  raises 
concerns that the medicinal product has not been sufficiently evaluated in men. Also, the limited data 
available indicates the possibility of better efficacy with the 4-mg dose in males.    
36/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  from  a  PK/PD  or  mechanism  of  action  perspective,  there  is  no  difference  in  response 
between  males  and  females  (as  shown  by  colonic  transit  time).    Similar  reductions  in  time  to  first 
stools are obtained in both males and females as illustrated in the figure below: 
Figure 5:  Prucalopride, 2 and 4 mg, reduces time to first stool in male patients in the pivotal trials; this 
effect was statistically significant (p<0.001), with similar values at the 2 and 4 mg dose and similar values 
for the response in males and females. 
                                                                 * p<0.001 vs placebo  
The pharmacodynamic effect is clearly similar in males and females compared to placebo. The small 
number of male subjects in double blind studies seems to explain the lack of statistical significance of 
the  2mg  dose  which  is  further  compounded  by  the  higher  proportion  of  male  patients  with  severe 
constipation at baseline in this subgroup. 
This  limitation  of  data  in  men  will  need  to  be  further  addressed  by  the  provision  of  new  relevant 
efficacy  data.  The  applicant  commits  to  a  post-authorization  efficacy  study  in  males  (FUM).  The 
results of this study should be awaited before men are included for treatment with Prucalopride. 
Long term efficacy 
A  total  of  2595  patients  with  chronic  constipation  received  treatment  with  Prucalopride  in  an  open-
label setting in 5 Phase II studies (PRU-BEL-8, PRU-INT-3, PRU-INT-4, PRU-NED-4, PRU-FRA-1 
[Part 2]) and 2 Phase III studies (PRU-INT-10, PRU-USA-22). The primary objective of all of these 
studies  was  the  collection  of  long-term  safety  data,  but  long-term  efficacy  was  also  assessed  using 
either  the  PAC-QOL  satisfaction  subscale  (PRU-USA-22  and  PRU-INT-10)  or  the  visual  analogue 
scales (VAS) to assess the patient’s perception of treatment effectiveness and severity of constipation 
(Phase II studies). 
From  the  3  pivotal  trials  1455  patients  (494  were  treated  with  placebo  and  961  with  Prucalopride) 
continued in long term open-label (OL) phase for treatment with Prucalopride up to 24 months. In the 
OL phase, efficacy was measured by means of the PAC-QOL satisfaction scale at each 3 month visit. 
Mean  scores  for  the  PAC-QOL  satisfaction  scale  during  both  the  DB  and  OL  phase  are  shown  in 
Table  18.  Values  of  the  PAC-QOL  satisfaction  scale  range  from  0  to  4  and  lower  values  indicate 
improvement - more satisfaction 
37/49 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18:  Evolution of mean PAC-QOL satisfaction score during the double blind and open label phase 
for patients from the pivotal trials  
Across all of these Phase II/III studies, the reported withdrawal rate due to inadequate response was 
19% (489/2595). However, sub-analysis of the data shows that the 19% of patients who withdrew due 
to lack of efficacy during the open label phase, comprised 16% that were shown to be non-responders 
during the double blind phase.  Thus only 3% of responders withdrew due to lack of efficacy after up 
to two and half years of treatment. 
This  appears  to  be  further  supported  by  the  fact  that  in  responders,  symptoms  reportedly  return  to 
baseline when treatment is stopped.  Therefore patients are unlikely to develop tolerance during long 
term treatment.  The SPC text has been amended accordingly.  In addition, the applicant commits to 
provide further controlled data to study the long-term efficacy/safety of Prucalopride (FUM). 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Elderly 
A Phase III study in an elderly population (PRU-INT-12) evaluated the effects of 3 doses of 
Prucalopride (1, 2 and 4 mg o.d.).  Details of the trial are provided in the section “Dose response 
studies”. 
Population with “Opioid-Induced Constipation” 
Five studies, including one pilot study, were performed in patients with opioid-induced constipation.  
These are summarised in the table 18 below.  Due to halting of the programme, only one of the studies 
was completed (PRU-INT-8).  
38/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19:  Summary of Phase II/III double-blind placebo-controlled trials in patients with opioid-induced 
constipation  
PRU-USA-8 
Phase II 
PRU-INT-14 
Phase II 
PRU-INT-8 
Phase II 
PRU-USA-27 
Phase II 
PRU-INT-17 
Phase II 
A pilot study of once-daily oral Prucalopride capsules vs. 
placebo in opioid-induced constipation in cancer 
patients. 
A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of Prucalopride in patients with 
chronic cancer pain, suffering from opioid-induced 
constipation. 
A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of Prucalopride in subjects with 
chronic non-cancer pain, suffering from opioid-induced 
constipation  
A study of once-daily oral Prucalopride tablets vs. 
placebo in patients with opioid-induced constipation. 
A study to evaluate the long-term tolerability and safety 
and the pattern of use of Prucalopride in patients with 
chronic pain (cancer and non-cancer pain), suffering 
from opioid-induced constipation. 
N=5 (5) 
Placebo, 2 mg, 4 mg/ 
4 weeks 
N=53 (52)  
Placebo, 2 mg, 4 mg/ 
4 weeks 
N=196 (196) 
Placebo, 2 mg, 4 mg/ 
4 weeks 
N=88 (84) 
Placebo, 2 mg, 4 mg/ 
4 weeks 
N=96 
1 to 4 mg/  
12 months 
N = number randomised patients, between brackets the number of ITT patients 
PRU-INT-8 was a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study to 
evaluate the efficacy, safety and the effects on quality of life of Prucalopride 2 and 4 mg in men and 
women with chronic non-cancer pain, suffering from opioid-induced constipation. The study consisted 
of  a  2-week  drug  free  run-in  phase  (baseline),  followed  by  a  randomised,  4-week,  double-blind 
treatment phase. Prucalopride was given orally o.d. In this population, the primary efficacy parameter 
was  the  proportion  of  patients  with  an  increase  of  ≥1  in  the  average  weekly  frequency  of  SCBM, 
whereas  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  ≥3  SCBM  per  week  was  considered  the  key  secondary 
parameter.  
The data showed an improvement in the percentage of patients that had an improvement of ≥1 SCBM 
per week with a response of 35.9% of patients on Prucalopride 2 mg and 40.3% on Prucalopride 4 mg, 
vs.  23.4%  on  placebo.  Differences  between  both  Prucalopride  2  mg  (p=0.021)  and  4  mg  (p=0.002) 
groups and placebo were significant at Week 1 but not during subsequent weeks and overall for Weeks 
1 through 4. The difference in response rates between the placebo group and the Prucalopride 4 mg 
group was 17% (uncorrected p=0.043) over the entire treatment period (Weeks 1-4). 
Patients with Multiple Sclerosis or Spinal Cord Injury 
Three studies were conducted in patients with multiple sclerosis or spinal cord injury. These are 
tabulated below.  
Table 20:  Summary of Phase II/III trials in patients with multiple sclerosis or spinal cord injury  
PRU-BEL-18 
Phase II 
A double-blind placebo-controlled trial to evaluate safety 
and tolerability and pilot efficacy of R093877 in subjects 
with constipation due to MS  
A double-blind placebo-controlled trial to evaluate safety 
and tolerability and pilot efficacy of R093877 in subjects 
with constipation subsequent to SCI  
A study to evaluate the long-term tolerability, safety and 
efficacy of oral Prucalopride administered to patients 
with constipation due to SCI or MS 
N=22 (22) 
Placebo, 1 mg, 2 mg/ 
4 weeks 
N=23 (22) 
Placebo, 1 mg, 2 mg/ 
4 weeks 
N=22 (22) 
1 mg, 2 mg/  
12 months 
PRU-DEN-2 
Phase II 
PRU-INT-9 
Phase II 
N = number randomised patients, between brackets the number of ITT patients 
39/49 
 
 
 
 
•  Supportive studies 
Numerous  supportive  studies,  both  controlled  and  uncontrolled,  were  performed  to  demonstrate 
efficacy  of  prucalopride.    The  findings  of  these  additional  studies  are  consistent  with  the  results  of 
pivotal and other studies discussed above. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Clinical  Safety  includes  the  safety  data  from  82  completed  clinical  studies:  47 Phase  I  studies,  25 
Phase II studies, and 10 Phase III studies. In the Phase II/III double-blind placebo-controlled program, 
studies were performed in adults with chronic constipation (2717 on Prucalopride), of which 564 were 
elderly  (>65  years).  Special  studies  in  elderly  included  405  patients.  Additional  studies  were 
performed in special subpopulations such as patients with constipation due to multiple sclerosis (MS; 
n=22)  and  spinal  cord  injury  (SCI;  n=23)  and  patients  with  chronic  cancer  and  non  cancer  pain, 
suffering from opioid-induced constipation (n=341).  
Total  exposure  in  a  double-blind  placebo-controlled  setting  in  patients  with  chronic  constipation 
included 2717 patients treated with Prucalopride over a median of 57 days (range 1 to 140 days) and 
1369 patients were on placebo, with a total exposure to Prucalopride of 406 patient years..  
Exposure to the recommended dose of 2 mg in adults added up to 165 years (n=938). Total exposure 
in the elderly added up to 63 years (n=534), and exposure in elderly to the 1 mg recommended dose 
added up to 8 years (n=113). 
A  total  of  2595  patients  with  chronic  constipation  were  treated  with  Prucalopride  in  the  open-label 
studies.  The  mean  treatment  duration  was  284.4  days  (40.6 weeks).  A  total  of  1490 patients  were 
treated for 6 months or longer, and 869 patients were treated for more than 1 year (>365 days). The 
maximum treatment duration was 952 days (136 weeks, or 2.6 years).  
A summary of the various datasets is presented in the following table: 
Table 21: Summary of the overall patient exposure from various datasets 
Number of patients  
Population  
Placebo  
PRU 
0.5 mg  
PRU 
1.0 mg  
PRU 
2.0 mg  
PRU 
3.0 mg  
PRU 
4.0 mg  
All 
PRU  
Phase I  volunteers, 
oral  
Phase I  volunteers, 
i.v./s.c.  
Phase II/III DBPC   
chronic  
constipation  
Phase II/III DBPC 
opioid-induced 
constipation  
Phase II/III DBPC 
MS and SCI  
Phase II DBPC  
postoperative ileus, 
i.v./s.c.  
Phase II/III open  
chronic  
constipation 
269  
60  
797  
80  
1369 
 110  
308  
938  
1361  
2717  
116  
15  
112  
 109  
221  
15  
15  
30  
100  
92  
11  
89  
91  
283  
 218  
1007  
223  
1147  
2595  
40/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase II open 
opioid-induced 
constipation  
Compassionate use  
17  
37  
31  
54  
10  
14  
50  
108  
114  
219  
DBPC: double-blind placebo-controlled, PRU: Prucalopride, s.c.: subcutaneous(ly) 
•  Adverse events  
(cid:190) Overall Adverse Event Profile - Relationship to Treatment  
All events with a numerical difference of ≥0.5% higher incidence rate in the combined Prucalopride 
treatment  groups  vs.  placebo,  listed  in  descending  order  of  the  difference  in  frequency  between  all-
Prucalopride and placebo, shows that the AEs of headache, nausea and diarrhoea occurred at a clearly 
higher rate than placebo (>8%) in the active treatment groups. However, it is notable that this higher 
incidence  is  mainly  driven  by  the  occurrence  of  AEs  on  Day  1  of  treatment.  Without  the  events  on 
Day  1,  the  differences  between  placebo  and  all treatment  groups  are  markedly  less  as  shown  in  the 
Table 22 below. 
Table22:  Chronic constipation: adverse events after Day 1 occurring more frequently in the combined 
Prucalopride groups than on placebo in all double-blind placebo-controlled Phase II/III studies  
 Placebo  N=1369  
All PRU N=2717  
Preferred term  
Total no. of patients with AE >Day 1  
Headache  
Nausea 
 Diarrhoea 
 Vomiting 
 Dizziness  
Abdominal pain upper 
 Fatigue  
Abdominal pain 
 Bowel sounds abnormal 
 Pollakiuria 
Pyrexia 
 Flatulence 
 Muscle spasms  
Palpitations  
n (%)  
803 (58.7)  
144 (10.5) 
 94 (6.9)  
42 (3.1) 
 30 (2.2)  
23 (1.7) 
 35 (2.6) 
 20 (1.5) 
 113 (8.3)  
4 (0.3) 
  3 (0.2) 
 2 (0.2) 
 48 (3.5) 
 15 (1.1) 
 9 (0.7)  
n (%)  
1626 (59.8)  
307 (11.3) 
 233 (8.6) 
 163 (6.0) 
 84 (3.1) 
 67 (2.5) 
 88 (3.2) 
 54 (2.0)  
176 (6.5) 
 18 (0.7) 
 26 (1.0)  
23 (0.9) 
 89 (3.3) 
 32 (1.2) 
 26 (1.0)  
Approximately 50% of all the AEs of nausea, diarrhoea and headache in the Prucalopride 2 mg and 4 
mg groups occurred on the first day of treatment. For abdominal pain, this percentage was somewhat 
lower, i.e.  32-36%.  The  onset  of these  AEs  in  the  placebo  group  was  mostly  after  the  first  week  of 
treatment.   The  duration  of  the  most  common  AEs  did  not  significantly  differ between  placebo  and 
Prucalopride treatment groups.  
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  associated  with  Prucalopride  treatment  are  headache  and  GI 
symptoms (nausea, diarrhoea and abdominal pain). These AEs are expected from the type of medicinal 
product  and  occur  predominantly  in  the  first  few  days  of  treatment.    They  are  generally  mild  to 
moderate  in  severity  and  the  proportion  of  patients  discontinuing  due  to  these  events  appears  to  be 
low.  
41/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:190) Adverse Events of Special Interest  
Palpitations 
A  significant  proportion  of  palpitations  in  the  double-blind  studies  occurred  on  Day  1  or  2  of 
Prucalopride treatment when compared to placebo. The absence of ECGs in the majority of patients 
who had palpitations does not allow for definite conclusions regarding the mechanism of palpitations. 
However, the Phase I studies indicate that the first day of treatment is accompanied by a several beat-
per-minute increase in heart rate. It is likely that the combination of first day effects of increased heart 
rate, moderate to severe GI symptoms and/or headache contribute to the occurrence of palpitations in 
certain patients. 
However, it would appear that in some patients, palpitations are a noticeable symptom particularly at 
the higher 4 mg dose.   The associated potential risk is difficult to ascertain.  From the available data, 
there  seems  to  be  no  evidence  to  suggest  that  they  are  linked  to  more  significant  cardiovascular 
adverse  events.  Nevertheless,  it  seems  appropriate  to  keep  the  incidence  of  palpitations  and  any 
possible association with other more serious cardiovascular events under review post-authorisation.  
Atrial Rhythm-Related Events  
Most of atrial rhythm-related events involved various types of sinus or supraventricular tachycardia, 
and other related arrhythmias. The majority of affected patients had underlying cardiovascular disease, 
and/or use of medications that also predisposes to cardiac arrhythmias. The onset of symptoms was not 
early  in  the  treatment  course  and  was  scattered  throughout  the  treatment  period  in  both  the  double-
blind and open-label studies. Most cases that were identified from current Prucalopride database are 
probably consistent with the disorders expected in the underlying patient population.  
QT Prolongation  
Certain 5-HT4 receptor antagonists such as Cisapride are known to induce QTc prolongation, which in 
some instances lead to ventricular arrhythmias and sudden deaths. 
Data from the two QT studies(PRU-GBR-9 and PRU-GBR-10) in the current application appear to 
show that prucalopride may not induce QTc prolongation.  However the design of these studies did not 
conform  to  the  current  ICH  guidelines.  As  such,  they  were  probably  not  sensitive  enough  pick  up 
small evidence of QT prolongation.   
However, data from the various studies appear to show that the influence, if any, of Prucalopride on 
QT interval and other ECG variables is negligible. This is supported by the reassuring results of the 
recently  submitted  new  properly  designed  additional  QT  study  with  an  active  comparator  which 
showed that Prucalopride has no effect QT interval. 
Ischaemic-Related Events 
In the double-blind studies, the number of cardiovascular ischaemic-related events was low (0.2% of 
all  Prucalopride-treated  patients)  and  incidences  were  comparable  between  the  Prucalopride  groups 
and placebo (0.1 %). There was 1 death due to a cardiovascular ischaemic-related event in the placebo 
group.  The  overall  incidence  of  serious  events  was  the  same:  1  on  placebo  and  1  on  4  mg 
Prucalopride. 
In the open-label studies, when a correction was made for exposure, the incidence of cardiovascular 
ischaemic events was similar when compared to the placebo group of the double-blind studies (1.0% 
and 0.9%, respectively).  
42/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  detailed  review  of  the  data  seems  to  indicate  that  a  small  possible  causal  relationship  between 
Prucalopride  treatment  and  such  ischaemic  events  cannot  be  excluded  completely.    Taking  into 
account  the  general  limitations  of  the  clinical  trial  safety  data  to  detect  such  rare  events,  it  is 
appropriate to continue to monitor this class of events carefully during the post-authorisation phase. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
An overview of the serious adverse events (SAEs), deaths from the double-blind studies is presented 
in Table 23 below. 
Table  23:    Summary  of  SAEs,  Deaths  and  Discontinuations  due  to  SAEs  from  double-blind  placebo-
controlled studies in chronic constipation- all-subjects population  
PRU  1  mg  
Placebo 
N=308  
N=1369  
PRU  4  mg  
N=1361  
PRU  2  mg 
N=938 
PRU 
0.5 
mg N=110 
All 
N=2717  
PRU 
Parameter  
n (%)  
n (%)  
n (%)  
n (%)  
n (%)  
n (%)  
SAEs (incl. post study)  
Deaths (incl. post study)  
26 (1.9) 
 1 (0.1)  
2 (1.8) 
 0 (0.0)  
9 (2.9) 
1 (0.3)  
19 (2.0) 
 1 (0.1)  
28 (2.1) 
 0  
58 (2.1) 
 2 (0.1)  
The frequency of serious adverse events was relatively low.  In the double- blind controlled studies, 
the incidences of these events were largely comparable between prucalopride and placebo.  
The  incidence  of  SAEs  with  Prucalopride  in  the  open-label  studies  was  higher  (9.5%)  than  in  the 
double-blind  placebo-controlled  studies.  However,  this  is  likely  to  be  a  consequence  of  the  longer 
duration of treatment. Considering all patients treated with Prucalopride, no single SAE preferred term 
was  reported  by  more  than  1% of the  patients. The most  commonly  reported SAEs  were  within  the 
system  organ  class  of  surgical  and  medical  procedures,  with  hysterectomy  (0.7%)  being  the  most 
commonly  reported  SAE  preferred  term,  but  these  were  not  treatment  related.  The  most  commonly 
reported treatment-related SAEs were in the system organ class of GI disorders (1.9% overall), and the 
most commonly reported SAE preferred term within this class was abdominal pain, reported by 0.4% 
of patients.  There were 4 deaths reported in the open-label studies. None of the cases were considered 
related to treatment by the investigator 
•  Laboratory findings 
Overall, the incidence of adverse events concerning abnormal laboratory test results was low in both 
placebo and Prucalopride treated patients. This applies to both the double blind and open label studies. 
No  clinically  relevant  differences  in laboratory  related  AEs  between  Prucalopride  and  placebo  were 
observed 
Possibly  prolactin-related  AEs  (i.e.,  tumours,  prolactin-related  events,  or  clinical  manifestations  of 
increased  prolactin secretion)  were  observed in  13 (0.5%)  Prucalopride-treated patients  with  chronic 
constipation  (compared  with  7  [0.5%]  placebo-treated  patients.  The  most  common  AEs  were  breast 
tenderness (0.2% on Prucalopride and 0.1% on placebo) and breast pain (0.1% and 0.3%, respectively. 
The  majority  of  events  was  mild  or  moderate;  1  placebo-treated  patient  and  2  patients  in  the  2 mg 
group had an event of severe intensity.  
As only a few prolactin samples in the clinical database, it is not possible to conclude whether or not 
there is a signal of increased prolactin secretion in some patients.  Prolactin levels should therefore be 
monitored in future clinical studies. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Prucalopride  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  the  paediatric  population  as  efficacy  and  safety  studies 
have not yet been performed.  
43/49 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the analysis of the global safety database did not provide any evidence for an impact of old 
age on the safety profile on Prucalopride. The differences seen in the variety of events and the increase 
in SAEs in elderly patients are attributable to the normal background in this age group.  
Although  no  additional  risk  appears  to  be  attributed  to  male  gender,  the  number  of  male  subjects 
investigated is limited. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Limited  interactions  were  observed  in  2  interaction  studies:  1)  Prucalopride  enhanced  the  systemic 
exposure of erythromycin by about 30%, and 2) on co-administration with ketoconazole, Prucalopride 
plasma  levels  were  increased  by  40%.  Although  neither  of  these  findings  are  likely  to  have  major 
safety implications, they were unexpected and could not readily be explained.  
The data relating to pregnancy appear to indicate that Prucalopride may be associated with abortion 
and  possibly  foetal  malformation.  It  is  noteworthy  that  8  of  the  32  women  who  became  pregnant 
during  the  development  programme  were  using  oral  contraceptives  and  3  of  these  were  taking 
antibiotics  that  may  have  contributed  to  contraceptive  failure.  However,  the  contribution  of 
Prucalopride  in  these  eight  patients  could  not  be  excluded  as  no  pharmacokinetic  interaction  study 
involving  oral  contraceptives  has  been  performed.  Hence,  the  applicant  commits  to  submit  an 
interaction study with oral contraceptives (FUM). 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In phase 1 studies, AEs leading to treatment discontinuation were infrequent (0.6% during treatment 
with Prucalopride compared with 0.7% in the placebo group). The most commonly reported AEs were 
gastrointestinal disorders (0.5% and 0.7%, respectively). 
In  the  double-blind  placebo-controlled  Phase  II/III  studies,  overall,  7.1%  of  Prucalopride-treated 
patients prematurely discontinued due to AEs, compared to 2.8% of placebo-treated patients. The most 
commonly  reported  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  were  gastrointestinal  disorders  (i.e.  reported  by 
5.0% of patients treated with Prucalopride and 1.5% in the placebo group) and headache (2.3% and 
0.4%, respectively). The incidence of these AEs tended to increase with dose. There was no clinically 
relevant difference between men and women with respect to the overall incidence (8.6% and 6.9%) or 
nature of AEs leading to discontinuation  
In  phase  II/III  open-label  studies,  overall,  8.3%  of  Prucalopride-treated  patients  prematurely 
discontinued due to AEs.  As in the double-blind placebo-controlled studies, the most common AEs 
leading to discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders i.e. reported by 3.6% patients and headache 
by  1.3% patients.  There  was  no  difference  between  men  and  women  with  respect  to  the  overall 
incidence (8.3% for both men and women) or nature of AEs leading to discontinuation  
In summary, as expected, events that most frequently led to discontinuation were headache, diarrhoea, 
nausea, and abdominal pain with each of these being more common in the 4 mg group than in the 1 or 
2 mg group. 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
44/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table 24.  Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities (Routine and additional) 
Important identified risks 
Palpitations 
Headache 
Important potential risks 
Cardiovascular ischaemic 
events 
Routine pharmacovigilance;  
Special focus on surveillance: 
monthly review of line listing, CV 
SOC; monthly case series review for 
risk factors, change in severity, and 
outcome; 
Special questionnaire for follow up of 
palpitation cases. 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Routine pharmacovigilance;  
Special focus on surveillance: 
monthly review of line listing, CV 
SOC; monthly case series review for 
risk factors, and outcome; 
Special questionnaire for follow up of 
cardiovascular ischaemic events; 
Epidemiology study (THIN database). 
QT prolongation and 
related ventricular 
arrhythmias 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Syncope 
Potential for overdose/ 
abuse/misuse (in patients 
dosing like laxatives 
Routine pharmacovigilance;  
Routine pharmacovigilance; 
Monthly review of numbers of cases 
for real time assessment of off-label 
use. 
45/49 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
(Routine and additional) 
The SmPC will include text in Section 
4.8 regarding palpitations and 
recommending that the patient seeks 
physician advice.  
The SmPC includes headache as an 
adverse effect in Section 4.8. 
The SmPC includes text in Section 4.4 
stating that patients with severe and 
clinically unstable concomitant 
cardiovascular disease have not been 
studied and caution should be 
exercised when prescribing the drug to 
patients with these conditions. In 
particular the drug should be used with 
caution in patients with a history of 
arrhythmias or uncontrolled cardiac 
disease. 
The SmPC will include text in Section 
4.4 stating that patients with severe 
and clinically unstable concomitant 
cardiovascular disease have not been 
studied and caution should be 
exercised when prescribing the drug to 
patients with these conditions. In 
particular the drug should be used with 
caution in patients with a history of 
arrhythmias or uncontrolled cardiac 
disease.   
No specific labelling in SmPC 
The tablets are packaged in alu/alu 
calendar blisters as primary packaging, 
making the accidental or purposeful 
(over)ingestion of tablets unlikely. 
Additionally, the tablets are dispensed 
in packages of 28, allowing for 
monitoring of monthly usage via 
prescription refills. 
The SmPC will include text in section 
4.2 stating that Prucalopride should be 
used at the recommended dose of 1 
tablet per day and that due to the 
specific mode of action of 
Prucalopride, exceeding the daily dose 
will not increase efficacy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potential for off-label 
paediatric use 
Routine pharmacovigilance; 
Monthly review of numbers of cases 
for real time assessment of off-label 
use. 
The SmPC will include text in section 
4.2 stating that the safety and efficacy 
of Prucalopride in children younger 
than 18 years have not yet been 
established. 
Important missing information 
Safety in pregnant 
women 
Routine pharmacovigilance; 
Targeted follow up of all pregnancy 
cases (reminder system in database); 
Epidemiology Study (THIN 
database). 
Efficacy and safety in 
chronic constipation in 
paediatric patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Safety in patients with 
hepatic impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance; 
Hepatic impairment study. 
Safety in patients with 
severe and unstable 
cardiovascular disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance; 
Special focus on surveillance: 
monthly review of the line listing, CV 
SOC, monthly case series review for 
risk factors, severity, and outcome; 
Special questionnaire for follow up of 
cases 
Drug interaction with oral 
contraceptives 
Routine pharmacovigilance; 
Drug-drug interaction study 
The SmPC will include text in section 
4.6 that experience with Prucalopride 
during pregnancy is limited. Cases of 
spontaneous abortion have been 
observed during clinical trials, 
although, in the presence of other risk 
factors, the relationship to 
Prucalopride is unknown. Animal 
studies do not indicate direct or 
indirect harmful effects with respect to 
pregnancy, embryonal/foetal 
development, parturition or postnatal 
development. Resolor is not 
recommended during pregnancy. 
Women of childbearing potential 
should use effective contraception 
during treatment. 
The SmPC will include text in section 
4.2 that safety and efficacy of 
Prucalopride in children younger than 
18 years have not yet been established. 
Currently available data are described 
in section 5.2.  
Additionally, a PIP is in the process of 
being prepared and will be submitted 
in 2009. 
The SmPC will include text in section 
4.2 recommending a dosage reduction 
in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment and stating that no 
information is available in mild and 
moderate hepatic impairment. If 
necessitated by the outcome of the 
hepatic impairment study, this 
language will be adjusted. 
The SmPC will include text in section 
4.4 stating that patients with severe 
and clinically unstable concomitant 
cardiovascular disease have not been 
studied and caution should be 
exercised when prescribing the drug to 
patients with these conditions. In 
particular the drug should be used with 
caution in patients with a history of 
arrhythmias or uncontrolled cardiac 
disease 
No specific labelling in SmPC 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
46/49 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The active substance and finished product have been adequately described. The excipients used in the 
preparation of the finished product and the manufacturing process selected are typical of an immediate 
release  tablet.  The  film-coated  tablets  provide  taste-masking  and  colour  differentiation  between  the 
tablet strengths.  
The  results  of  the  tests  indicate  that  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product  can  be 
reproducibility  manufactured  and  therefore  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform 
performance in the clinic. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Non-clinical  data  reveal  no  special  hazard  for  humans  based  on  conventional  studies  of  safety 
pharmacology,  repeated  dose  toxicity  and  toxicity  to  reproduction  and  development.  An  extended 
series of safety pharmacology studies with special emphasis on cardiovascular parameters showed no 
relevant changes in haemodynamic and ECG derived parameters (QTc) with the exception of a modest 
increase in heart rate and blood pressure observed in anaesthesized pigs after i.v. administration, and 
an increase in blood pressure in conscious dogs after bolus i.v. administration, which was not observed 
either in anaesthetized dogs or after oral administration in dogs reaching similar plasma levels. 
Initial  concerns  were  raised  with  regards  to  the  genotoxicity  and  carcinogenic  potential.    However, 
considering  the  extensive  genotoxicity  testing  performed,  the  weight  of  evidence  shows  that 
Prucalopride raises no genotoxic concern.  Also, it is plausible that the mechanism causing the liver 
and thyroid tumours in the rat carcinogenicity study is the classical “enzyme induction mechanism”.  
This  is  species  specific  and  the  observed  liver  and  thyroid  tumours  are  not  considered  relevant  for 
humans. 
Efficacy 
The  results  from  the  pivotal  studies  for  both  the  ITT  and  per  protocol  patient  population  show  that 
Prucalopride at a dose of 2 mg o.d. produces statistically significant effects in patients with chronic 
constipation  most  of  whom  were  dissatisfied  with  their  previous  treatment.  Each  of  the  3  pivotal 
studies individually showed a statistically significant improvement in the primary endpoint (≥3 SCBM 
per week for 12 weeks), with 23.6% of patients achieving this response level on Prucalopride 2 mg vs. 
11.3% in the placebo group. In addition, an improvement of ≥1 SCBM per week and ≥1 point on the 
PAC-QOL satisfaction score are additional measures of clinical benefit.   
Long term efficacy appears to be maintained as shown by the sub-analysis which seem to indicate that 
only 3% of patients who respond during the first three months of treatment are likely to discontinue 
due to lack of response during the course of two and half years of treatment.  Tolerance is therefore 
unlikely to develop during long term treatment. Nevertheless, further controlled long-term treatment 
data will be gathered following Marketing Authorisation, as an agreed follow-up measure.  
However,  the  pivotal  studies  were  conducted  almost  exclusively  in  (Caucasian)  women.  This  raises 
concerns that the drug has not been sufficiently evaluated in men. However, with regards to PK, PD 
and safety data, the effect of Prucalopride is similar in both males and females compared with placebo. 
The small number of subjects in double blind studies may explain the lack of statistical significance of 
the  2  mg  dose  which  is  further  compounded  by  the  higher  proportion  of  male  patients  with  severe 
constipation  at  baseline  in  this  subgroup.    This  limitation  of  data  in  men  will  need  to  be  further 
addressed  by  the  provision  of  new  relevant  efficacy  data.  The  applicant  commits  to  a  post-
authorization efficacy study in males (FUM). 
47/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
In clinical studies, the most commonly reported adverse events associated with Prucalopride treatment 
are headache and gastrointestinal complaints (nausea, diarrhoea and abdominal pain).  The long-term 
safety data did not reveal the emergence of any new safety issues. Numerous preclinical concerns have 
been  identified,  including  findings  of  hyperprolactinemia  in  rodents.    Because  there  are  so  few 
prolactin samples in the clinical database, it is not possible to conclude whether or not there is a signal 
of increased prolactin secretion in some patients. Thus, prolactin levels should be monitored in future 
clinical studies. 
Data from the various studies appear to show that the influence, if any, of Prucalopride on QT interval 
and other ECG variables is negligible. This is supported by the reassuring results of a newly submitted 
properly designed QT study which showed that Prucalopride has no effect on QT interval. 
With  regards  to  ischaemic-  related  events,  the  available  data  seem  to  indicate that  a  possible  causal 
relationship  with  Prucalopride  treatment  cannot  be  completely  ruled  out.    Taking  into  account  the 
general limitations of the clinical trial safety data to detect such rare events, it is essential to continue 
to monitor these events carefully. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The user testing report submitted is adequate and in accordance with current recommendations.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
Prucalopride  appears  to  significantly  improve  bowel  movement  symptoms  (including  consistency, 
straining during defecation). It also shortens the time to first SCBM and reduces the use of laxatives. 
When  all  bowel  movements  were  considered,  Prucalopride  decreased  stool  hardness  and  severe 
straining,  apparently  without  increasing  the  number  of  watery  stools. The  patients’  satisfaction  with 
treatment and the perception of constipation symptom severity also improved.   
Risks 
The potential risks due to ischaemic- related and pro-arrhythmic events, if any, appear negligible and 
manageable.  However, precautionary appropriate pharmacovigilance activities have been put in place. 
Missing information for relevant populations, such as paediatric patients, pregnant women and patients 
with impaired hepatic function have been addressed in the Risk Management Plan.  In addition, it is 
noted that the pivotal studies were conducted almost exclusively in women, meaning that efficacy has 
not  sufficiently  been  demonstrated  in  men.  This  limitation  of  data  in  men  will  need  to  be  further 
addressed  by  the  provision  of  new  relevant  efficacy  data.    Also,  controlled  safety  /efficacy  data  are 
limited to 12 weeks of treatment.  This prompted the commitment to further gather relevant data on the 
long-term benefit of Prucalopride. 
48/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance 
The benefit-risk balance of Resolor is considered positive. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Resolor  indicated  for  symptomatic  treatment  of  chronic 
constipation in women in whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief was favourable and therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
49/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
