EMA/554260/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002739 
EPAR summary for the public 
Respreeza 
human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Respreeza. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Respreeza. 
For practical information about using Respreeza, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Respreeza and what is it used for? 
Respreeza is a medicine used in adults with alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency, an inherited 
disorder that can cause lung problems such as increasing shortness of breath and which may also 
affect the liver. Respreeza is used to slow down damage to the lungs in patients with severe disease. 
Respreeza contains the active substance human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor. 
How is Respreeza used? 
Respreeza is available as a powder and solvent to be made into a solution for infusion (drip) into a 
vein. The first infusion should be given under the supervision of a healthcare professional experienced 
in the treatment of alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency. Subsequent infusions can be given by a 
caregiver or by the patient. 
The recommended dose of Respreeza is 60 mg per kilogram body weight, given once a week. The 
infusion should last around 15 minutes. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Respreeza work? 
The active substance in Respreeza, human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor, is a natural protein in the blood 
which protects lung tissue from damage. It is obtained from human blood and works by replacing the 
protein that is lacking in patients with alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency. 
What benefits of Respreeza have been shown in studies? 
Respreeza has been shown to slow down lung damage in one main study involving 180 patients with 
lung damage due to alpha1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency. In the study, Respreeza was compared with 
placebo (a dummy treatment) and the main measure of effectiveness was the decrease in lung 
density. Lung density is an indicator of the extent of lung damage: the bigger the decrease in lung 
density, the greater is the damage to the lung. The decrease in lung density after 24 months was 
around 2.6 g/l in patients who received Respreeza, compared with a decrease of around 4.2 g/l in 
patients receiving placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Respreeza? 
The most common side effects with Respreeza (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are dizziness, 
headache, dyspnoea (shortness of breath) and nausea. Allergic reactions have been observed during 
treatment, some of which were severe. 
Because of the risk of severe allergic reactions, Respreeza must not be used in patients who are 
lacking IgA, a protein in the blood, and who have developed antibodies against it because these 
patients are more prone to allergic reactions. For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with 
Respreeza, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Respreeza approved? 
The main study with Respreeza showed that the medicine is effective at slowing down the damage to 
the lungs in patients with alpha1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency, and this effect is considered relevant 
for patients with severe disease. Allergic reactions were the main safety concern with Respreeza, but 
advice on how to manage this risk has been included in the product information. No other major 
concerns have been identified about the safety of the medicine.  
Therefore, the Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that 
Respreeza’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Respreeza? 
The company that markets Respreeza will carry out a further study to assess whether an increased 
dose of 120 mg/kg may lead to improved effects compared with the currently recommended dose. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Respreeza have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Respreeza 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Respreeza on 20 August 2015. 
Respreeza  
EMA/554260/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Respreeza can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Respreeza, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2016. 
Respreeza  
EMA/554260/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
