EMA/449395/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Respreeza (human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Respreeza, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Respreeza is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Respreeza, which can be found on Respreeza’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Respreeza is a medicine used in adults with severe alpha1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency. This is a 
genetic condition caused by lack of alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor (also called alpha 1- antitrypsin), a 
component of the blood whose function is to protect the lung tissue from damage. People who have 
alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency do not make enough alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor and are 
susceptible to lung disease.  
There are different forms of the condition, some more severe than others, and not all people with the 
gene changes (mutations) that can lead to the condition will develop clinically significant symptoms.  
There are approximately 3.5 million individuals worldwide affected by one of the mutations that can 
lead to severe disease; however, an additional 117 million individuals are carriers for one of the 
mutations and might or might not be diagnosed. In Europe, alpha1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency 
affects more frequently individuals with Northern European ancestry and is equally seen in males and 
females. The diagnosis generally occurs during the third to fourth decade of life after patients develop 
symptoms such as emphysema (a type of lung disease characterised by difficulty breathing).  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Respreeza is used to slow down damage to the lungs in patients with severe disease. The active 
substance in Respreeza, human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor, is obtained from human blood and works 
by replacing the protein that is lacking in patients with alpha1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency. 
Respreeza is available as a powder and solvent to be made into a solution for infusion (drip) into a 
vein.  
Respreeza has been shown to slow down lung damage in one main study involving 180 patients with 
lung damage due to alpha1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency. In the study, Respreeza was compared with 
placebo (a dummy treatment) and the main measure of effectiveness was the decrease in lung 
density. Lung density is an indicator of the extent of lung damage: the bigger the decrease in lung 
density, the greater is the damage to the lung. The decrease in lung density after 24 months was 
around 2.6 g/l in patients who received Respreeza, compared with a decrease of around 4.2 g/l in 
patients receiving placebo. 
Page 1/5 
 
 
 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
All patients treated with Respreeza in clinical studies were white of both sexes below the age of 65. 
Experience in older people and paediatric populations, in patients with kidney or liver disease, other 
races and patients with severe emphysema remains limited. Patients who were pregnant or 
breastfeeding, who have had a lung transplant or volume reduction surgery were not included in the 
clinical studies, so no experience with treatment in these groups is available. However, the limited data 
did not show a safety concern in these populations. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Patients may experience an allergic 
Respreeza must not be used in patients 
Allergic 
reactions 
including 
reaction that can range from mild to 
serious, and may result in death. This 
anaphylaxis  
may occur after the first or any dose. 
Symptoms may include: hot flush, rash, 
itching, dizziness, increased heart rate, 
and trouble with breathing or swallowing 
as well as any swelling of hands, face or 
mouth. 
who have ever had an allergic reaction to 
alpha1-proteinase inhibitor or any of the 
other ingredients of this medicine, or in 
patients who are lacking a protein in the 
blood called IgA and who have 
developed antibodies against it, as these 
patients are more prone to allergic 
reactions. 
Immediate discontinuation of the 
infusion may be required, depending on 
the severity of the allergic reaction. 
Patients should call their doctor right 
away if they have any symptoms of an 
allergic reaction after they receive 
Respreeza. 
Patients should tell their doctor if they 
had an allergic reaction to Respreeza in 
the past or to any alpha 1-proteinase 
inhibitor. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Transmission of 
infectious agents 
Respreeza is made from donated human blood; therefore, the risk of 
transmitting infectious agents, including viruses and, theoretically, 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, cannot be completely eliminated. The risk of 
getting a virus from Respreeza is very low. This is the result of required 
testing of human donors for certain viruses, and inclusion of effective 
manufacturing steps to inactivate/remove viruses. 
Although the risk is low, patients should talk with their doctor if they have 
concerns. The doctor may give hepatitis A and B vaccines to patients who 
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
receive plasma-derived medicines regularly. 
Increased or 
There are limited data regarding the use of Respreeza in a home setting and 
unknown risks with 
when the medicine is given by the patient or a caregiver. Patients who home-
home-based self-
administration 
treat and/or self-administer may be at risk of using the wrong dose, or 
handling the medication, device, sterile water or intravenous tubing 
incorrectly. There is also a potential for side effects, such as allergic reactions, 
to occur at home and be managed incorrectly without the aid of a healthcare 
professional.  
The decision whether a patient is suitable for home treatment and self-
administration is made by the treating doctor, who should ensure that 
appropriate training is provided to the patient. 
Medication error 
Errors can occur when the product is administered either by a healthcare 
professional or a patient, and include incorrect dosage, possibility of incorrect 
medicine due to name confusion, errors in use of device, filter or tubing for 
the infusion into a vein. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Limited information 
In clinical trials Respreeza has only been tested in few older patients, but 
on use in older 
post-marketing data do not indicate that the safety in older people differs 
patients (above 65 
from that of adults aged below 65 years. 
years old) 
Limited information 
on use in pregnant or 
breastfeeding women 
Respreeza has not been tested in women who are pregnant or breastfeeding. 
Since human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor is a normal constituent of human 
blood, it is considered unlikely that Respreeza will cause harm to the fetus or 
present a risk to the breastfed newborn/infant when given at the 
recommended doses. 
Patients should talk to their doctor if they are planning to become pregnant or 
think they may be pregnant. A decision on whether to continue/discontinue 
breastfeeding or to continue/discontinue therapy with Respreeza should be 
made, taking into account the benefit of breastfeeding to the child and the 
benefit of human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor therapy to the woman.  
No experience in 
patients who have 
undergone lung 
Patients who had undergone lung transplantation or volume reduction surgery 
were not enrolled in clinical trials. It is not known if patients who have had this 
surgery will benefit or if they have the same risks as patients who have not 
transplantation or 
had surgery.  
volume reduction 
surgery 
Patients who have previously had lung surgery of any type should discuss with 
their doctor the possible benefits and risks of treatments with Respreeza. 
No experience in 
patients with liver 
Some patients with alpha1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency may have both lung 
and liver disease. Patients with significant liver disease were not enrolled in 
(hepatic) disease 
clinical trials. It is not expected that liver disease will respond to treatment 
with Respreeza. The risks of giving Respreeza to patients with lung disease 
who also have liver abnormalities are unknown.  
Limited experience in 
Low numbers of patients with severe emphysema (or obstructive lung 
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
patients with severe 
emphysema (a type 
disease) as measured by lung function tests (FEV1 less than 35%) were 
enrolled in clinical trials. It is not known if patients with severe lung disease 
of lung disease 
characterised by 
reduced breathing) 
would benefit from treatment. It is expected, but not known, that they have 
similar risks as patients with higher lung functions (FEV1 between 35% and 
70%). 
Limited information 
65.6% of subjects received Respreeza for over a year, 46.6% of subjects for 
on long-term safety. 
over 2 years, and 9% for over 4 years.  
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Respreeza can be found on Respreeza’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
CE1226_3001: 
To collect long-term 
To assess safety by 
Ongoing 
Final Results: 
An open, non- 
data for the safety 
adverse effects, 
September 2015 
controlled, 
multicenter, 
and efficacy of 
laboratory results and 
treatment with 
periodic physical 
multinational study 
Respreeza given as 
exams. To assess the 
to evaluate the 
an infusion into a 
clinical efficacy of 
efficacy and safety 
vein at a dose of 60 
therapy in reducing 
of CE1226 
mg/kg once a week 
progression of 
administration in 
in subjects with 
emphysema, assessed 
chronic 
emphysema due to 
by decline in lung 
augmentation and 
maintenance 
alpha1-proteinase 
inhibitor deficiency. 
density. 
therapy in subjects 
with emphysema 
due to alpha1- 
proteinase inhibitor 
deficiency who 
completed clinical 
study CE1226_4001 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
There are no safety studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2015. 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
