EMA/556801/2011   
EMEA/H/C/000872 
EPAR summary for the public 
Retacrit 
epoetin zeta 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Retacrit. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Retacrit. 
What is Retacrit? 
Retacrit is a solution for injection. It is available in prefilled syringes containing between 1,000 and 
40,000 international units (IU) of the active substance, epoetin zeta. 
Retacrit is a ‘biosimilar’ medicine. This means that Retacrit is similar to a biological medicine (the 
‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the European Union (EU), and contains a similar 
active substance to the reference medicine. The reference medicine for Retacrit is Eprex/Erypo, which 
contains epoetin alfa. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see the question-and-answer 
document here. 
What is Retacrit used for? 
Retacrit is used in the following situations: 
 
to treat anaemia (low red blood cell counts) that is causing symptoms in patients with chronic renal 
failure (long-term, progressive decrease in the ability of the kidneys to work properly) or other 
kidney problems; 
 
to treat anaemia in adults receiving chemotherapy to treat certain types of cancer and to reduce 
the need for blood transfusions; 
 
to increase the amount of blood that patients with moderate anaemia can self-donate before 
surgery, so that their own blood can be given back to them during or after surgery; 
 
to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with moderate anaemia about to undergo 
major bone surgery (such as a hip or knee replacement). 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Retacrit used? 
Treatment with Retacrit must be started under the supervision of doctors who have experience in the 
management of patients with the conditions that the medicine is used for. 
For patients with kidney problems, Retacrit can be injected into a vein or under the skin. For patients 
receiving chemotherapy, it must be injected under the skin, and for patients about to undergo surgery, 
it must be injected into a vein. The dose, the frequency of injection and how long Retacrit is used for 
depend on why it is being used, and are adjusted according to the patient’s response. For patients with 
chronic renal failure or receiving chemotherapy, haemoglobin levels should remain within the 
recommended range (between 10 and 12 grams per decilitre in adults and between 9.5 and 11 g/dl in 
children). Haemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen around the body. The 
lowest dose that provides adequate control of symptoms should be used. 
The iron levels of all patients should be checked before treatment to make sure that they are not too 
low, and iron supplements should be used throughout treatment. Retacrit can be injected under the 
skin by the patient or their carer if they have been trained appropriately. For full details, see the 
package leaflet. 
How does Retacrit work? 
A hormone called erythropoietin stimulates the production of red blood cells from the bone marrow. 
Erythropoietin is produced by the kidneys. In patients receiving chemotherapy or with kidney 
problems, anaemia can be caused by a lack of erythropoietin, or by the body not responding enough to 
the erythropoietin it has naturally. In these cases, erythropoietin is used to replace the missing 
hormone or to increase red blood cell counts. Erythropoietin is also used before surgery to increase the 
number of red blood cells to help patients produce more blood for self-donation. 
The active substance in Retacrit, epoetin zeta, is a copy of human erythropoietin and works in exactly 
the same way as the natural hormone to stimulate red blood cell production. It is produced by a 
method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’: it is made by a cell that has received a gene (DNA), 
which makes it able to produce epoetin zeta. 
How has Retacrit been studied? 
Retacrit was studied to show that it is comparable with the reference medicine, Eprex/Erypo, in 
experimental models and in humans. 
Retacrit, injected into a vein, was compared with the reference medicine in two main studies involving 
922 patients who had anaemia associated with chronic renal failure requiring haemodialysis (a 
technique for removing waste products from the blood). The first study compared the effects of 
Retacrit with those of Eprex/Erypo in correcting red blood cell counts in 609 patients over 24 weeks. 
The second study compared the effects of Retacrit with those of Eprex/Erypo in maintaining red blood 
cell counts in 313 patients. All of the patients in the second study had been receiving treatment with 
Eprex/Erypo for at least three months before they were either switched to Retacrit or remained on 
Eprex/Erypo for 12 weeks. After that, the two groups switched to receiving the other medicine for a 
further 12 weeks. In both studies, the main measures of effectiveness were the levels of haemoglobin 
during treatment, as well as the dose of epoetin received. 
Retacrit  
EMA/651065/2011  
Page 2/4
 
 
 
The company also presented the results of two studies looking at the effects of Retacrit injected under 
the skin: one involved 261 cancer patients receiving chemotherapy, and the other compared Retacrit 
with Eprex/Erypo in 462 patients with anaemia caused by kidney problems. 
What benefit has Retacrit shown during the studies? 
Retacrit was as effective as Eprex/Erypo in correcting and maintaining red blood cell counts. In the 
correction study, haemoglobin levels were around 11.6 g/dl during the last four weeks of the study, 
having risen from around 8.0 g/dl before treatment. In the study of patients already being treated with 
an epoetin, haemoglobin levels were maintained at around 11.4 g/dl when the patients were receiving 
Retacrit and when they were receiving Eprex/Erypo. In both studies, the dose of epoetin received was 
similar with both medicines. 
Retacrit was also effective when it was injected under the skin. The study in patients receiving 
chemotherapy showed that Retacrit brought about similar improvements in haemoglobin levels as 
those reported in the scientific literature for other epoetins. Retacrit was also as effective as the 
reference medicine in patients with kidney problems. 
What is the risk associated with Retacrit? 
As with other medicines containing an epoetin, the most common side effect with Retacrit is an 
increase in blood pressure, which can sometimes lead to symptoms of encephalopathy (brain 
problems) such as sudden stabbing migraine-like headache and confusion. Retacrit can also lead to 
skin rash and influenza (flu)-like symptoms. For the full list of all side effects reported with Retacrit, 
see the package leaflet. 
Retacrit should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to epoetin zeta or any of 
the other ingredients. It must not be used in patients who have developed pure red cell aplasia 
(reduced or stopped red blood cell production) following treatment with any erythropoietin, patients 
with hypertension (high blood pressure) that is not controlled, patients about to undergo surgery who 
have severe cardiovascular (heart and blood vessel) problems including a recent heart attack or 
stroke, or patients who cannot receive medicines to prevent blood clots.  
Retacrit must not be used prior to major bone surgery in patients who have a severe disease affecting 
their arteries or their blood vessels in the heart, neck or brain, including patients who have recently 
had a heart attack or stroke. 
Why has Retacrit been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Retacrit has been shown to have a 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy profile to Eprex/Erypo. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Eprex/Erypo, the benefit outweighs the identified risks. The Committee recommended that Retacrit 
be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Retacrit: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Retacrit on 
18 December 2007.  
The full EPAR for Retacrit can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Retacrit, 
read the Package Leaflet (also part of the EPAR). 
Retacrit  
EMA/651065/2011  
Page 3/4
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 07-2011. 
Retacrit  
EMA/651065/2011  
Page 4/4
 
 
 
