ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules 
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains 40 mg selpercatinib. 
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains 80 mg selpercatinib. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsules. 
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules 
Grey opaque capsule, 6 x 18 mm (size 2), imprinted with “Lilly”, “3977” and “40 mg” in black ink. 
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules 
Blue opaque capsule, 8 x 22 mm (size 0), imprinted with “Lilly”, “2980” and “80 mg” in black ink. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Retsevmo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adults with:  
– 
advanced RET fusion-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) not previously treated with 
a RET inhibitor 
Retsevmo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adults and adolescents 12 years and older 
with: 
– 
advanced RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer who are radioactive iodine-refractory (if 
radioactive iodine is appropriate) 
– 
advanced RET-mutant medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Retsevmo therapy should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the use of 
anti-cancer therapies. 
RET testing 
The presence of a RET gene fusion (NSCLC and non-medullary thyroid cancer) or mutation (MTC) 
should be confirmed by a validated test prior to initiation of treatment with Retsevmo. 
Posology 
The recommended dose of Retsevmo based on body weight is: 
- 
- 
Less than 50 kg: 120 mg twice daily. 
50 kg or greater: 160 mg twice daily. 
If a patient vomits or misses a dose, the patient should be instructed to take the next dose at its 
scheduled time; an additional dose should not be taken.  
Treatment should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.  
The current selpercatinib dose should be reduced by 50% if co-administering with a strong CYP3A 
inhibitor. If the CYP3A inhibitor is discontinued, the selpercatinib dose should be increased (after 
3-5 half-lives of the inhibitor) to the dose that was used before starting the inhibitor. 
Dose adjustments 
Management of some adverse reactions may require dose interruption and/or dose reduction. 
Retsevmo dose modifications are summarised in Table 1 and Table 2. 
Table 1 Recommended dose modifications for Retsevmo for adverse reactions based on body 
weight  
Dose modification 
Starting dose 
Adults and adolescents 
≥50 Kg 
160 mg orally twice daily 
Adults and adolescents 
<50 Kg 
120 mg orally twice daily 
First dose reduction 
120 mg orally twice daily 
80 mg orally twice daily 
Second dose reduction 
80 mg orally twice daily 
Third dose reduction 
40 mg orally twice daily 
40 mg orally twice daily 
Not applicable 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 Recommended dose modifications for adverse reactions  
Adverse drug 
reaction (ADR) 
Increased ALT or 
AST  
Grade 3 or Grade 4 
Hypersensitivity 
All Grades 
QT interval 
prolongation 
Grade 3  
Grade 4 
Dose modification 
•  Suspend dose until toxicity resolves 
to baseline (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Resume at a dose reduced by 
2 levels.  
•  If after at least 2 weeks selpercatinib 
is tolerated without recurrent 
increased ALT or AST, increase 
dosing by 1 dose level.  
•  If selpercatinib is tolerated without 
recurrence for at least 4 weeks, 
increase to dose taken prior to the 
onset of Grade 3 or 4 increased AST 
or ALT. 
•  Permanently discontinue 
selpercatinib if Grade 3 or 4 ALT or 
AST increases recur despite dose 
modifications. 
•  Suspend dose until toxicity resolves 
and begin corticosteroids at a dose of 
1 mg/kg (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Resume selpercatinib at 40 mg twice 
daily while continuing steroid 
treatment. Discontinue selpercatinib 
for recurrent hypersensitivity. 
•  If after at least 7 days, selpercatinib 
is tolerated without recurrent 
hypersensitivity, incrementally 
increase the selpercatinib dose by 
1 dose level each week, until the 
dose taken prior to the onset of 
hypersensitivity is reached. Taper 
steroid dose after selpercatinib has 
been tolerated for at least 7 days at 
the final dose. 
•  Suspend dose for QTcF intervals 
>500 ms until the QTcF returns to 
<470 ms or baseline (see section 
4.4).  
•  Resume selpercatinib treatment at 
the next lower dose level.  
•  Permanently discontinue 
selpercatinib if QT prolongation 
remains uncontrolled after two dose 
reductions or if the patient has signs 
or symptoms of serious arrhythmia. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypertension  
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 2  
Haemorrhagic 
events 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
(ILD)/Pneumonitis 
Other adverse 
reactions 
Grade 3 or Grade 4 
Grade 3 or Grade 4 
•  Patient blood pressure should be 
controlled before starting treatment. 
•  Selpercatinib should be suspended 
temporarily for medically significant 
hypertension until controlled with 
antihypertensive therapy. Dosing 
should be resumed at the next lower 
dose if clinically indicated (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
•  Selpercatinib should be discontinued 
permanently if medically significant 
hypertension cannot be controlled. 
•  Selpercatinib should be suspended 
until recovery to baseline. Resume at 
a reduced dose. 
If Grade 3 events reoccur following 
dose modification, permanently 
discontinue selpercatinib. 
•  Permanently discontinue 
selpercatinib. 
•  Withhold selpercatinib until 
resolution. 
•  Resume at a reduced dose. 
•  Discontinue selpercatinib for 
recurrent ILD/pneumonitis 
•  Discontinue selpercatinib.  
•  Selpercatinib should be suspended 
until recovery to baseline. Resume at 
a reduced dose. 
•  If Grade 4 events reoccur following 
dose modification, permanently 
discontinue selpercatinib. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required based on age (see section 5.2). 
No overall differences were observed in the treatment emergent adverse events or effectiveness of 
selpercatinib between patients who were ≥65 years of age and younger patients. Limited data are 
available in patients ≥75 years. 
Renal impairment 
Dose adjustment is not necessary in patients with mild, moderate or severe renal impairment. There 
are no data in patients with end stage renal disease, or in patients on dialysis (section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Close monitoring of patients with impaired hepatic function is important. No dose adjustment is 
required for patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic 
impairment. Patients with severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment should be dosed with 
80 mg selpercatinib twice daily (section 5.2).  
Paediatric population 
Retsevmo should not be used in children aged less than 12 years.  
There is no data in children or adolescents with RET fusion-positive NSCLC. 
Retsevmo is intended to be used from the age of 12 years for the treatment of patients with 
RET-mutant MTC and RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer (see section 5.1). In RET-mutant MTC and 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer, there are very limited data available in children or adolescents 
aged less than 18 years. Patients should be dosed according to body weight (see section 4.2). Based on 
results from a preclinical study (see section 5.3), open growth plates in adolescent patients should be 
monitored. Dose interruption or discontinuation should be considered based on the severity of any 
growth plate abnormalities and an individual risk-benefit assessment.  
Method of administration  
Retsevmo is for oral use. 
The capsules should be swallowed whole (patients should not open, crush, or chew the capsule before 
swallowing) and can be taken with or without food.  
Patients should take the doses at approximately the same time every day.  
Retsevmo must be accompanied by a meal if used concomitantly with a proton pump inhibitor 
(see section 4.5). 
Retsevmo should be administered 2 hours before or 10 hours after H2 receptor antagonists (see 
section 4.5). 
4.3   Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4   Special warnings and precautions for use 
Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD)/Pneumonitis 
Severe, life-threatening, or fatal cases of ILD/pneumonitis have been reported in patients treated with 
selpercatinib (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for pulmonary symptoms indicative of 
ILD/pneumonitis. Selpercatinib should be withheld, and patients should be promptly investigated for 
ILD if they present with acute or worsening of respiratory symptoms which may be indicative of ILD 
(e.g., dyspnoea, cough, and fever), and treated as medically appropriate. Based on the severity of 
ILD/pneumonitis, the dose of selpercatinib should be interrupted, reduced, or permanently 
discontinued (see section 4.2). 
Increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/ aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 
Grade ≥3 increased ALT and Grade ≥3 increased AST were reported in patients receiving 
selpercatinib (see section 4.8). ALT and AST should be monitored prior to the start of selpercatinib 
therapy, every 2 weeks during the first 3 months of treatment, monthly for the next 3 months of 
treatment, and otherwise as clinically indicated. Based on the level of ALT or AST elevations, 
selpercatinib may require dose modification (see section 4.2). 
Hypertension 
Hypertension was reported in patients receiving selpercatinib (see section 4.8). Patient blood pressure 
should be controlled before starting selpercatinib treatment, monitored during selpercatinib treatment 
and treated as needed with standard anti-hypertensive therapy. Based on the level of increased blood 
pressure, selpercatinib may require dose modification (see section 4.2). Selpercatinib should be 
discontinued permanently if medically significant hypertension cannot be controlled with 
antihypertensive therapy. 
6 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QT interval prolongation 
QT interval prolongation was reported in patients receiving selpercatinib (see section 5.1). 
Selpercatinib should be used with caution in patients with such conditions as congenital long QT 
syndrome or acquired long QT syndrome or other clinical conditions that predispose to arrhythmias.  
Patients should have a QTcF interval of ≤470 ms and serum electrolytes within normal range before 
starting selpercatinib treatment. Electrocardiograms and serum electrolytes should be monitored in all 
patients after 1 week of selpercatinib treatment, at least monthly for the first 6 months and otherwise, 
as clinically indicated, adjusting frequency based upon risk factors including diarrhoea, vomiting, 
and/or nausea. Hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia should be corrected prior to 
initiating selpercatinib and during treatment. Monitor the QT interval with ECGs more frequently in 
patients who require treatment with concomitant medicinal products known to prolong the QT 
interval. 
Selpercatinib may require dose interruption or modification (see section 4.2). 
Hypothyroidism 
Hypothyroidism has been reported in patients receiving selpercatinib (see section 4.8). Baseline 
laboratory measurement of thyroid function is recommended in all patients. Patients with pre-existing 
hypothyroidism should be treated as per standard medical practice prior to the start of selpercatinib 
treatment. All patients should be observed closely for signs and symptoms of thyroid dysfunction 
during selpercatinib treatment. Thyroid function should be monitored periodically throughout 
treatment with selpercatinib. Patients who develop thyroid dysfunction should be treated as per 
standard medical practice, however patients could have an insufficient response to substitution with 
levothyroxine (T4) as selpercatinib may inhibit the conversion of levothyroxine to triiodothyronine 
(T3) and supplementation with liothyronine may be needed (see section 4.5). 
Strong CYP3A4 inducers 
Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided due to the risk of decreased efficacy 
of selpercatinib (see section 4.5). 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in females and males 
Women of childbearing potential must use highly effective contraception during treatment and for at 
least one week after the last dose of selpercatinib. Men with female partners of childbearing potential 
should use effective contraception during treatment and for at least one week after the last dose of 
selpercatinib (see section 4.6). 
Fertility 
Based on nonclinical safety findings, male and female fertility may be compromised by treatment with 
Retsevmo (see sections 4.6 and 5.3). Both men and women should seek advice on fertility preservation 
before treatment. 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity was reported in patients receiving selpercatinib with a majority of events observed in 
patients with NSCLC previously treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy (see section 4.8). 
Signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity included fever, rash and arthralgias or myalgias with 
concurrent decreased platelets or elevated aminotransferases. 
Suspend selpercatinib if hypersensitivity occurs, and begin steroid treatment. Based on the grade of 
hypersensitivity reactions, selpercatinib may require dose modification (see section 4.2). Steroids 
should be continued until patient reaches target dose and then tapered. Permanently discontinue 
selpercatinib for recurrent hypersensitivity.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haemorrhages 
Serious including fatal haemorrhagic events were reported in patients receiving selpercatinib (see 
section 4.8).  
Permanently discontinue selpercatinib in patients with life-threatening or recurrent severe 
haemorrhage (see section 4.2).  
Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) 
Cases of TLS have been observed in patients treated with selpercatinib. Risk factors for TLS include 
high tumour burden, pre-existing chronic renal insufficiency, oliguria, dehydration, hypotension, and 
acidic urine. These patients should be monitored closely and treated as clinically indicated, and 
appropriate prophylaxis including hydration should be considered. 
4.5  
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of selpercatinib  
Selpercatinib metabolism is through CYP3A4. Therefore, medicinal products that can influence 
CYP3A4 enzyme activity may alter the pharmacokinetics of selpercatinib.  
Selpercatinib is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) in 
vitro, however these transporters do not appear to limit the oral absorption of selpercatinib, as its oral 
bioavailability is 73% and its exposure was increased minimally by co-administration of the P-gp 
inhibitor rifampicin (increase of approximately 6.5% and 19% in selpercatinib AUC0-24 and Cmax, 
respectively). 
Agents that may increase selpercatinib plasma concentrations  
Co-administration of a single 160 mg selpercatinib dose with itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, 
increased the Cmax and AUC of selpercatinib by 30% and 130%, respectively, compared to 
selpercatinib given alone. If strong CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, posaconazole and 
nefazodone, have to be co-administered, the dose of selpercatinib should be reduced (see section 4.2). 
Agents that may decrease selpercatinib plasma concentrations  
Co-administration of rifampicin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer resulted in a decrease of approximately 
87% and 70% in selpercatinib AUC and Cmax, respectively, compared to selpercatinib alone, therefore 
the concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers including, but not limited to, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin, rifampicin and St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum), should 
be avoided. 
Effects of selpercatinib on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products (increase in plasma 
concentration)  
Sensitive CYP2C8 substrates  
Selpercatinib increased the Cmax and AUC of repaglinide (a substrate of CYP2C8) by approximately 
91% and 188% respectively. Therefore, co-administration with sensitive CYP2C8 substrates (e.g., 
odiaquine, cerivastatin, enzalutamide, paclitaxel, repaglinide, torasemide, sorafenib, rosiglitazone, 
buprenorphine, selexipag, dasabuvir and montelukast), should be avoided.  
Sensitive CYP3A4 substrates  
Selpercatinib increased Cmax and AUC of midazolam (a CYP3A4 substrate) by approximately 39% 
and 54%, respectively. Therefore, concomitant use with sensitive CYP3A4 substrates, (e.g., alfentanil, 
avanafil, buspirone, conivaptan, darifenacin, darunavir, ebastine, lomitapide, lovastatin, midazolam, 
naloxegol, nisoldipine, saquinavir, simvastatin, tipranavir, triazolam, vardenafil), should be avoided.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-administration with medicinal products that affect gastric pH 
Selpercatinib has pH-dependent solubility, with decreased solubility at higher pH. No clinically 
significant differences in selpercatinib pharmacokinetics were observed when co-administered with 
multiple daily doses of ranitidine (H2 receptor antagonist) given 2 hours after the selpercatinib dose.  
Co-administration with medicinal products that are proton pump inhibitors  
Co-administration with multiple daily doses of omeprazole (a proton pump inhibitor) decreased 
selpercatinib AUC0-INF and Cmax when selpercatinib was administered fasting. Co-administration with 
multiple daily doses of omeprazole did not significantly change the selpercatinib AUC0-INF and Cmax 
when Retsevmo was administered with food. 
Co-administration with medicinal products that are substrates of transporters  
Selpercatinib inhibits the renal transporter multidrug and toxin extrusion protein 1 (MATE1). In vivo 
interactions of selpercatinib with clinically relevant substrates of MATE1, such as creatinine, may 
occur (see section 5.2). 
Selpercatinib is an in vitro inhibitor of P-gp and BCRP. In vivo, selpercatinib increased Cmax and AUC 
of dabigatran, a P-gp substrate, by 43% and 38%, respectively. Therefore, caution should be used 
when taking a sensitive P-gp substrate (e.g., fexofenadine, dabigatran etexilate, colchicine, 
saxagliptin), and particularly those with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., digoxin) (see section 5.2). 
Medicinal products that may be less effective when given with selpercatinib 
Selpercatinib could inhibit D2 deiodinase and thereby decrease the conversion of levothyroxine (T4) 
to triiodothyronine (T3). Patients could therefore have an insufficient response to substitution with 
levothyroxine and supplementation with liothyronine may be needed (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6   Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in females and males 
Women of childbearing potential have to use highly effective contraception during treatment and for at 
least one week after the last dose of selpercatinib. Men with female partners of childbearing potential 
should use effective contraception during treatment and for at least one week after the last dose of 
selpercatinib. 
Pregnancy 
There are no available data from the use of selpercatinib in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Retsevmo is not recommended during pregnancy and in 
women of childbearing potential not using contraception. It should only be used during pregnancy if 
the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether selpercatinib is excreted in human milk. A risk to breast-fed newborns/infants 
cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with Retsevmo and for at 
least one week after the last dose. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of selpercatinib on fertility are available. Based on findings from animal 
studies, male and female fertility may be compromised by treatment with Retsevmo (see section 5.3). 
Both men and women should seek advice on fertility preservation before treatment. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Retsevmo may have minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be 
advised to be cautious when driving or using machines in case they experience fatigue or dizziness 
during treatment with Retsevmo (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common (≥ 1.0%) serious adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are pneumonia (6.6%), 
haemorrhage (3.2%), abdominal pain (2.9%), diarrhoea (2.0%), hypersensitivity (1.9%), vomiting 
(1.8%), blood creatinine increased (1.6%), ALT increased (1.3%), AST increased (1.3%), pyrexia 
(1.3%), fatigue (1.2%), nausea (1.2%), headache (1.1%), chylothorax (1.0%) and hypertension (1.0%). 
Permanent discontinuation of Retsevmo for treatment emergent adverse events, regardless of 
attribution occurred in 9.6% of patients. The most common ADRs resulting in permanent 
discontinuation (3 or more patients) were increased ALT (0.7%), fatigue (0.6%), increased AST 
(0.5%), blood bilirubin increased (0.4%), pneumonia (0.4%), thrombocytopenia (0.4%) and 
haemorrhage (0.4%).  
Tabulated list of adverse drug reactions 
The ADRs reported in patients treated with selpercatinib are shown in Table 3.  
The ADRs are classified according to the MedDRA system organ class and frequency. 
Frequency groups are defined by the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000), 
and not known (cannot be estimated from available data). 
Median time on treatment with selpercatinib was 30.09 months. 
Table 3 Adverse drug reactions in patients receiving single agent selpercatinib 
(LIBRETTO-001; N=837) 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
MedDRA 
preferred term 
Frequency of all 
Grades  
Frequency of Grade ≥ 3 
Infections and infestations  Pneumoniaa 
Immune system disordersb  Hypersensitivityc 
Hypothyroidism 
Endocrine disorders 
Decreased appetite 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders  Headached 
Dizzinesse 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
- 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequency of all 
Grades  
Frequency of Grade ≥ 3 
Very common 
Common 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
MedDRA 
preferred term 
Electrocardiogram 
QT prolongedf 
Hypertensiong 
Haemorrhageh  
Interstitial lung 
disease/pneumonitisi 
Chylothorax 
Gastrointestinal disorders  Diarrhoeaj 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Dry Mouthk 
Abdominal painl 
Constipation 
Nausea  
Vomitingm 
Chylous ascitesn 
Rasho 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Oedemap 
Fatigueq 
Pyrexia 
AST increased  
ALT increased  
Lymphocyte count 
decreased  
Creatinine increased 
White blood cell 
count decreased 
Alkaline phosphatase 
increased 
Very common 
Platelets decreased 
Magnesium decreased  Very common 
Very common 
Haemoglobin 
decreased 
Total bilirubin 
increased 
Neutrophil count 
decreased 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
- 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common  
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigationsr 
a  Pneumonia includes pneumonia, lung infection, pneumonia aspiration, empyema, lung consolidation, pleural 
infection, pneumonia bacterial, pneumonia staphylococcal, atypical pneumonia, lung abscess, pneumocystis 
jirovecii pneumonia, pneumonia pneumococcal and pneumonia respiratory syncytial viral. 
b  Hypersensitivity reactions were characterised by a maculopapular rash often preceded by a fever with 
associated arthralgias/myalgias during the patient’s first cycle of treatment (typically between Days 7-21). 
c  Hypersensitivity includes drug hypersensitivity and hypersensitivity. 
d  Headache includes headache, sinus headache and tension headache. 
e  Dizziness includes dizziness, vertigo, presyncope and dizziness postural. 
f
  Electrocardiogram QT prolonged includes electrocardiogram QT prolonged and Electrocardiogram 
QT interval abnormal. 
g
  Hypertension includes hypertension and blood pressure increased. 
11 
 
 
 
h
i
  Haemorrhage includes epistaxis, haemoptysis, contusion, haematuria, rectal haemorrhage, vaginal 
haemorrhage, cerebral haemorrhage, traumatic haematoma, blood urine present, conjunctival haemorrhage, 
ecchymosis, gingival bleeding, haematochezia, petechiae, blood blister, spontaneous haematoma, abdominal 
wall haematoma, anal haemorrhage, angina bullosa haemorrhagica, disseminated intravascular coagulation, 
eye haemorrhage, gastric haemorrhage, gastrointestinal haemorrhage, haemorrhage intracranial, haemorrhage 
subcutaneous, haemorrhoidal haemorrhage, hepatic haematoma, intra-abdominal haemorrhage, mouth 
haemorrhage, oesophageal haemorrhage, pelvic haematoma, periorbital haematoma, periorbital haemorrhage, 
pharyngeal haemorrhage, pulmonary contusion, purpura, retroperitoneal haematoma, skin haemorrhage, 
subarachnoid haemorrhage, diverticulum intestinal haemorrhagic, eye haematoma, haematemesis, 
haemorrhage, haemorrhagic stroke, hepatic haemorrhage, laryngeal haemorrhage, lower gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, melaena, menorrhagia, occult blood positive, post procedural haemorrhage, postmenopausal 
haemorrhage, retinal haemorrhage, scleral haemorrhage, subdural haemorrhage, traumatic haemothorax, 
tumour haemorrhage, upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage, uterine haemorrhage and vessel puncture site 
haematoma.  
Interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis includes pneumonitis, radiation pneumonitis, restrictive pulmonary 
disease, acute respiratory distress syndrome, alveolitis, bronchiolitis, langerhans’ cell histiocytosis and 
pulmonary radiation injury. 
j
  Diarrhoea includes diarrhoea, anal incontinence, defaecation urgency, frequent bowel movements and 
gastrointestinal hypermotility. 
k
  Dry mouth includes dry mouth and mucosal dryness. 
l
  Abdominal pain includes abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain 
lower and gastrointestinal pain. 
m
n
o
p
  Vomiting includes vomiting, retching and regurgitation. 
  Chylous ascites includes chylous ascites and ascites chylous (MedDRA LLTs). 
  Rash includes rash, rash maculo-papular, dermatitis, skin exfoliation, rash macular, rash erythematous, 
urticaria, dermatitis allergic, exfoliative rash, rash papular, rash morbilliform, rash pruritic, rash vesicular, 
butterfly rash, rash follicular, rash generalised, and rash pustular. 
  Oedema includes oedema peripheral, face oedema, periorbital oedema, swelling face, localised oedema, 
q
peripheral swelling, generalised oedema, eyelid oedema, eye swelling, lymphoedema, oedema genital, scrotal 
swelling, angioedema, eye oedema, oedema, scrotal oedema, skin oedema, swelling, orbital oedema, 
testicular swelling and vulvovaginal swelling. 
  Fatigue includes fatigue, asthenia and malaise. 
r
  Based on laboratory assessments. Percentage is calculated based on the number of patients with baseline 
assessment and at least one post-baseline assessment as the denominator, which was 806 for lymphocyte 
count decrease, 830 for magnesium decreased, 814 for neutrophil count decreased, and 834 for the others.  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Aminotransferase elevations (AST / ALT increased) 
Based on laboratory assessment, ALT and AST elevations were reported in 56.7% and 61.3% patients, 
respectively. Grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST elevations were reported in 12.2% and 10.4% patients 
respectively.  
The median time to first onset was: AST increase 4.7 weeks (range: 0.7, 227.9), ALT increase 4.4 weeks 
(range: 0.9, 186.1).  
Dose modification is recommended for patients who develop Grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST increase (see 
section 4.2). 
QT interval prolongation 
In the 837 patients who had ECGs, review of data showed 8.1% of patients had >500 msec maximum 
post-baseline QTcF value, and 21.6% of patients had a >60 msec maximum increase from baseline in 
QTcF intervals. At the time of the last post-baseline measurement, increase in QTc value >60 msec was 
reported in 2.0% of patients. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  were  no  reports  of  Torsade  de  pointes,  sudden  death,  ventricular  tachycardia,  ventricular 
fibrillation, or ventricular flutter related to selpercatinib. One patient (0.1%) discontinued treatment due 
to QT prolongation. 
Retsevmo may require dose interruption or modification (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Hypertension 
In the 837 patients who had blood pressure measurements, the median maximum increase from 
baseline systolic pressure was 32 mm Hg (range: –15, +100). Only 10.3% of patients retained their 
baseline grade during treatment, 40.7% had an increasing shift of 1 grade, 38.5% of 2 grades, and 
9.8% of 3 grades. A treatment emergent adverse event of hypertension was reported in 44.8% patients 
with history of hypertension (28.2% with grade 3, 4) and 41.7% of patients without history of 
hypertension (14.1% with grade 3, 4). 
Overall, a total of 19.8% displayed treatment-emergent Grade 3 hypertension (defined as maximum 
systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mm Hg). Grade 4 treatment emergent hypertension was 
reported in 0.1% of patients. Diastolic blood pressure results were similar, but the increases were of 
lesser magnitude. 
Two patients (0.2%) permanently discontinued treatment due to hypertension. Dose modification is 
recommended in patients who develop hypertension (see section 4.2). Selpercatinib should be 
discontinued permanently if medically significant hypertension cannot be controlled with 
antihypertensive therapy (see section 4.4). 
Hypersensitivity  
Signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity included fever, rash and arthralgias or myalgias with 
concurrent decreased platelets or increased aminotransferase. 
In study LIBRETTO-001, 24.0% (201/837) of patients treated with selpercatinib had previously 
received anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy. Hypersensitivity occurred in a total of 5.7% (48/837) of 
patients receiving selpercatinib, including Grade 3 hypersensitivity in 1.9% (16/837) of patients.  
Of the 48 patients with hypersensitivity, 54.2% (26/48) had NSCLC and had received prior 
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy. 
Grade 3 hypersensitivity occurred in 3.5% (7/201) of the patients previously treated with 
anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy.  
The median time to onset was 1.9 weeks (range: 0.7 to 203.9 weeks): 1.7 weeks in patients with 
previous anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy and 4.4 weeks in patients who were anti-PD-1/PD-L1 
immunotherapy naïve.  
Retsevmo may require dose interruption or modification (see section 4.2).  
Haemorrhages 
Grade ≥3 haemorrhagic events occurred in 3.5% of patients treated with selpercatinib, including 
4 (0.5%) patients with fatal haemorrhagic events, two cases of cerebral haemorrhage, and one case 
each of tracheostomy site haemorrhage, and haemoptysis. The median time to onset was 34.1 weeks 
(range: 0.1 week to 234.6 weeks). 
Selpercatinib should be discontinued permanently in patients with life-threatening or recurrent severe 
haemorrhage (see section 4.2). 
Additional information on special populations 
Paediatric patients 
There were 3 patients < 18 years (range: 15-17) of age with RET-mutant MTC in LIBRETTO-001. 
There were 8 patients < 18 years (range 12-17) of age with RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer in 
LIBRETTO-121. No unique safety findings  in children aged less than 18 years have been identified..  
Elderly 
In patients receiving selpercatinib, 24.7% were ≥65-74 years of age, 8.6% were 75-84 years of age, 
and 1.0% ≥ 85 years of age. The frequency of serious adverse events reported was higher in patients 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
≥65-74 years (58.0%), 75-84 years (62.5%), and ≥85 years (100.0%), than in patients <65 years 
(46.7%) of age. 
The frequency of AE leading to discontinuation of selpercatinib was higher in patients ≥65-74 years 
(10.1%), 75-84 years (19.4%), and ≥85 years (37.5%), than in patients <65 years of age (7.6%). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
Symptoms of overdose have not been established. In the event of suspected overdose, supportive care 
should be provided.  
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic and immunomodulating agents, antineoplastic agents, 
protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: L01EX22  
Mechanism of action 
Selpercatinib is an inhibitor of the rearranged during transfection (RET) receptor tyrosine kinase. 
Selpercatinib inhibited wild-type RET and multiple mutated RET isoforms as well as VEGFR1 and 
VEGFR3 with IC50 values ranging from 0.92 nM to 67.8 nM. In other enzyme assays, selpercatinib 
also inhibited FGFR 1, 2, and 3 at higher concentrations that were still clinically achievable. In a 
binding assay at the concentration of 1 µM selpercatinib, significant antagonist binding activity 
(>50%) was observed for the 5-HT (serotonin) transporter (70.2% antagonist) and α2C adrenoreceptor 
(51.7% antagonist). The concentration of 1 µM is approximately 7-fold higher than the maximum 
unbound plasma concentration of at the efficacious dose of selpercatinib. 
Certain point mutations in RET or chromosomal rearrangements involving in-frame fusions of RET 
with various partners can result in constitutively activated chimeric RET fusion proteins that can act as 
oncogenic drivers by promoting cell proliferation of tumor cell lines. In in vitro and in vivo tumor 
models, selpercatinib demonstrated anti-tumor activity in cells harboring constitutive activation of 
RET protein resulting from gene fusions and mutations, including CCDC6-RET, KIF5B-RET, 
RET V804M, and RET M918T. In addition, selpercatinib showed anti-tumor activity in mice 
intracranially implanted with a patient-derived RET fusion-positive tumor.  
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
In a thorough QT study with positive control in 32 healthy subjects, no large change (that is, >20 ms) 
in the QTcF interval was detected at selpercatinib concentrations similar to those observed with a 
therapeutic dosing schedule. An exposure-response analysis indicated that supra therapeutic 
concentrations, could lead to an increase in QTc > 20 ms.  
In patients receiving selpercatinib, QT interval prolongation was reported. Therefore, dose interruption 
or modification may be required in patients (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
Clinical efficacy and safety  
The efficacy of Retsevmo was evaluated in adult patients with advanced RET fusion-positive NSCLC 
and RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer and in adult and adolescent patients with RET-mutant MTC 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enrolled in a phase 1/2, multicenter, open-label, single-arm clinical study: Study LIBRETTO-001. 
This study included two parts: phase 1 (dose escalation) and phase 2 (dose expansion). The primary 
objective of the phase 1 portion was to determine the recommended phase 2 dose of selpercatinib. The 
primary objective of the phase 2 part was to evaluate the anti-tumour activity of selpercatinib by 
determining ORR, as assessed by independent review committee. Patients with measurable or 
non-measurable disease as determined by RECIST 1.1, with evidence of a RET gene alteration in 
tumour and who had failed or were intolerant to standard of care were enrolled. Patients with CNS 
metastases were eligible if stable, while patients with symptomatic primary CNS tumor, metastases, 
leptomeningeal carcinomatosis or spinal cord compression were excluded. Patients with known 
primary driver alteration other than RET, clinically significant active cardiovascular disease or history 
of myocardial infarction, QTcF interval > 470 msec were excluded.  
Patients in the phase 2 portion of the study received Retsevmo 160 mg orally twice daily until 
unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Identification of a RET gene alteration was prospectively 
determined in local laboratories using next generation sequencing (NGS), polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR), or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). The primary efficacy outcome measure was 
overall response rate (ORR) according to RECIST v1.1 as evaluated by a Blinded Independent Review 
Committee (IRC). Secondary efficacy outcomes included duration of response (DOR), progression 
free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). 
Treatment-naive RET fusion-positive NSCLC 
Of the 362 RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients enrolled in LIBRETTO-001, 69 were treatment 
naïve. The median age was 63 years (range 23 years to 92 years). 62.3% of patients were female. 
69.6% of patients were White, 18.8% were Asian, 5.8% were Black and 69.6% were never smokers. 
Most patients (98.6%) had metastatic disease at enrolment and 23.2% had CNS metastasis at baseline 
as assessed by investigator. ECOG performance status was reported as 0-1 (94.2%) or 2 (5.8%). The 
most common fusion partner was KIF5B (69.6%), followed by CCDC6 (14.5%) and then NCOA4 
(1.4%). Efficacy results for treatment-naive RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients are summarised in 
Table 4. 
Table 4 Objective response and duration of response  
Efficacy eligible patients 
IRC assessment 
69 
N 
Objective response (CR + PR) 
% (95% CI) 
Complete response n (%) 
Partial response n (%) 
Duration of response (months)* 
Median, 95% CI 
Rate (%) of patients with duration of response 
≥ 6 months (95% CI) 
≥ 12 months (95% CI) 
*Median duration of follow-up was 37.09 months (25th, 75th percentile: 24.0, 45.1) 
Data Cut-off date: 13 January 2023. 
82.6 (71.6, 90.7) 
   5 (7.2) 
52 (75.4) 
87.5 (75.5, 93.8) 
66.7 (52.4, 77.6) 
20.23 (15.4, 29.5) 
Previously treated RET fusion-positive NSCLC 
A total of 247 patients had received prior platinum-based chemotherapy. The median age was 61 years 
(range 23 years to 81 years). 56.7% of patients were female. 43.7% of patients were White, 47.8% 
were Asian, 4.9% were Black, and 66.8% were never smokers. Most patients (98.8%) had metastatic 
disease at enrolment and 31.2% had CNS metastasis at baseline as assessed by investigator. ECOG 
performance status was reported as 0-1 (97.1%) or 2 (2.8%). The most common fusion partner was 
KIF5B (61.9%), followed by CCDC6 (21.5%) and then NCOA4 (2.0%). The median number of prior 
systemic therapies was 2 (range 1–15) and 43.3% (n = 107/247) received 3 or more prior systemic 
regimens; prior treatments included anti PD1/PD-L1 therapy (58.3%), multi-kinase inhibitor (MKI) 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(31.6%) and taxanes (34.8%); 41.3% had other systemic therapy. Efficacy results for previously 
treated RET fusion-positive NSCLC patients are summarised in Table 5.  
Table 5 Objective response and duration of response  
N 
Objective response (CR + PR) 
% (95% CI) 
Complete response n (%) 
Partial response n (%) 
Duration of response (months)* 
Median (95% CI) 
Rate (%) of patients with duration of response 
Efficacy eligible patients 
IRC assessment 
247 
61.5 (55.2, 67.6) 
  20 (8.1) 
132 (53.4) 
    31.6 (20.4, 42.3) 
≥ 6 months (95% CI) 
≥ 12 months (95% CI) 
*Median duration of follow-up was 39.52 months (25th, 75th percentile: 24.6, 45.0) 
Data Cut-off date: 13 January 2023.   
87.0 (80.4, 91.5) 
73.0 (65.0, 79.5) 
CNS response in RET fusion-positive NSCLC  
The CNS ORR assessed by IRC was 84.6% (22/26; 95% CI: 65.1, 95.6) in 26 patients with 
measurable disease. CR was observed in 7 (26.9%) patients and PR in 15 (57.5%) patients. The 
median CNS DOR was 9.36 months (95% CI: 7.4, 15.3). 
Systemic treatment-naive RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer 
Of the RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer patients naive to systemic therapy other than radioactive 
iodine, and enrolled in LIBRETTO-001, 24 patients had the opportunity to be followed for at least 
6 months and were considered efficacy eligible. The median age was 60.5 years (range 20 to 84 years). 
58.3% of patients were male. 75% of patients were White. ECOG performance status was reported as 
0-1 (95.8%) or 2 (4.2%). 100% of patients had a history of metastatic disease. 22 out of the 24 patients 
(91.7%) received radioactive iodine prior to enrolment and therefore were considered radioactive 
iodine refractory. The different histologies represented in the 24 patients included: papillary (n=23) 
and poorly differentiated (n=1). The most common fusion partner was CCDC6 (45.8%) followed by 
NCOA4 (20.8%). Efficacy results for systemic treatment-naive RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer 
patients are summarised in Table 6. 
Table 6 Objective response and duration of response  
N 
Objective response (CR + PR) 
% (95% CI) 
Complete response n (%) 
Partial response n (%) 
Duration of response (months)* 
Median (95% CI) 
Rate (%) of patients with duration of 
response  
≥ 12 months (95% CI) 
≥ 24 months (95% CI) 
NE = not estimable  
16 
Efficacy eligible patients 
IRC assessment 
24 
95.8 (78.9, 99.9) 
5 (20.8) 
18 (75.0) 
NE (42.8, NE) 
100.0 (NE, NE) 
90.9 (50.8, 98.7) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Median duration of follow-up was 17.81 months (25th, 75th percentile: 9.2, 42.3) 
Data Cut-off date: 13 January 2023 
Previously treated RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer 
Of the RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer patients previously treated with systemic therapy other than 
Radioactive iodine, and enrolled in LIBRETTO-001, 41 patients had the opportunity to be followed 
for at least 6 months and were considered efficacy eligible. The median age was 58 years (range 25 to 
88 years). 43.9% of patients were male. 58.5% of patients were White while 29.3% were Asian and 
7.3% were Black. ECOG performance status was reported as 0-1 (92.7%) or 2 (7.3%). 100% of 
patients had metastatic disease. Patients had received a median of 3 prior systemic therapies (range: 
1-7). The most common prior therapies included radioactive iodine (73.2%), MKI (85.4%). 9.8% had 
other systemic therapy. The different histologies represented in the 41 patients included: papillary 
(n = 31), poorly differentiated (n = 5), anaplastic (n = 4), and Hurthle cell (n = 1). The most common 
fusion partner was CCDC6 (61.0%) followed by NCOA4 (19.5%). 
Efficacy results for previously treated RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer are summarised in Table 7. 
Table 7 Objective response and duration of response  
N 
Objective response (CR + PR) 
% (95% CI) 
Complete response n (%) 
Partial response n (%) 
Duration of response (months)* 
Median (95% CI) 
Rate (%) of patients with duration of 
response 
≥ 12 months (95% CI) 
≥ 24 months (95% CI) 
Efficacy eligible patients IRC assessment 
41 
85.4 (70.8, 94.4) 
5 (12.2) 
30 (73.2) 
26.7 (12.1, NE) 
71.7 (52.4, 84.2) 
50.7 (30.4, 67.8) 
NE = not estimable 
*Median duration of follow-up was 33.87 months (25th, 75th percentile: 12.9, 44.8) 
Data Cut-off date: 13 January 2023. 
Vandetanib and cabozantinib naïve RET-mutant medullary thyroid cancer 
Of the 324 RET-mutant MTC patients enrolled in LIBRETTO-001, 143 were naïve to treatment with 
cabozantinib and vandetanib. Of these 116 were treatment naïve to other systemic therapy and 27 had 
previously received other systemic therapy. Among patients naïve to cabozantinib and vandetanib, the 
median age was 57 years (range 15 to 87 years). 2 patients (1.4%) were < 18 years of age. 58.0% of 
patients were male. 86.7% of patients were White, 5.6% were Asian, 1.4% were Black. Most patients 
(97.9%) had metastatic disease at enrolment. ECOG performance status was reported as 0-1 (95.9%) 
or 2 (4.2%). The most common mutation was M918T (60.1%), followed by extracellular cysteine 
mutations (23.8%). Efficacy results for cabozantinib and vandetanib treatment-naive RET-mutant 
MTC patients are summarised in Table 8. 
Table 8 Objective response and duration of response  
N 
Objective response (CR + PR) 
% (95% CI) 
Complete response n (%) 
Partial response n (%) 
Efficacy eligible patients 
IRC assessment 
143 
82.5 (75.3, 88.4) 
34 (23.8) 
84 (58.7) 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of response (months)* 
Median, 95% CI 
Rate (%) of duration of response 
≥ 12 months (95% CI) 
≥ 24 months (95% CI) 
NE (51.3, NE) 
91.4 (84.6, 95.3) 
84.1 (75.9, 89.7) 
NE = not estimable,  
*Median duration of follow-up was 39.4 months (25th, 75th percentile: 32.3, 45.4).  
Data cut-off date 13 January 2023. 
Previously treated RET-mutant medullary thyroid cancer 
Of the RET-mutant MTC patients enrolled in LIBRETTO-001, 152 were previously treated with 
cabozantinib and/or vandetanib, and considered efficacy eligible. The median age was 58 years (range 
17 years to 90 years); 1 patient (0.7%) was < 18 years of age. 63.8% of patients were male. 90.1% of 
patients were White while 1.3% were Asian, and 1.3% were Black. ECOG performance status was 
reported as 0-1 (92.7%) or 2 (7.2%). 98.0% of patients had metastatic disease. The most common 
mutation was M918T (65.1%), followed by extracellular cysteine mutations (15.8%). 100% (n = 152) 
of patients received prior systemic therapy with a median of 2 prior systemic regimens and 27.6% (n = 
42) received 3 or more prior systemic regimens.  
Efficacy results for previously treated RET-mutant MTC are summarised in Table 9. 
Table 9 Objective response and duration of response  
N 
Objective response (CR + PR) 
% (95% CI) 
Complete response n (%) 
Partial response n (%) 
Duration of response (months)* 
Median (95% CI) 
Rate (%) of duration of response 
≥ 12 months (95% CI) 
≥ 24 months (95% CI) 
Efficacy eligible patients 
IRC assessment 
152 
77.6 (70.2, 84.0) 
19 (12.5) 
99 (65.1) 
45.3 (33.6, NE) 
83.0 (74.6, 88.8) 
66.4 (56.3, 74.7) 
NE = not estimable 
*Median duration of follow-up was 38.3 months (25th, 75th percentile: 23.0, 46.1).  
Data cut-off date 13 January 2023. 
Paediatric population 
As of 13 January 2023, 10 patients with RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer aged 12 to ≤ 21 years have 
been treated in LIBRETTO-121, an ongoing Phase 1/2 study in paediatric patients with an advanced 
solid or primary CNS tumour harbouring an activating RET alteration. Of these 10 patients, 8 patients 
were less than 18 years of age. Of the 10 patients, 4 were previously treated with radioactive iodine 
only, 2 had received prior systemic therapy that did not include radioactive iodine and 4 were not 
previously treated with any systemic therapy. For all 10 patients, per IRC, objective response rate was 
60.0% (95% CI: 26.2, 87.8). 3 patients had confirmed complete response whilst 3 patients had 
confirmed partial response. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
selpercatinib in patients aged 6 months and below in solid tumours (see section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use). 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
selpercatinib in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in relapsed/refractory solid tumours, 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
including RET fusion-positive solid tumours, RET-mutant medullary thyroid cancer, and other 
tumours with RET alteration/activation (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
Conditional approval 
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme. This 
means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited. The European Medicines Agency 
will review new information on this medicinal product at least every year and this SmPC will be 
updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
The pharmacokinetics of selpercatinib were evaluated in patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
solid tumors administered 160 mg twice daily unless otherwise specified. Steady-state selpercatinib 
AUC and Cmax increased in a linear to supra-dose proportional manner over the dose range of 20 mg 
once daily to 240 mg twice daily.  
Steady-state was reached by approximately 7 days and the median accumulation ratio after 
administration of 160 mg twice daily was 3.4-fold. Mean steady-state selpercatinib [coefficient of 
variation (CV%)] Cmax was 2,980 (53%) ng/mL and AUC0-24h was 51,600 (58%) ng*h/mL. 
In vivo studies indicate that selpercatinib is a mild inhibitor of P-gp. 
In vitro studies indicate that selpercatinib does not inhibit or induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19, or CYP2D6 at clinically relevant concentrations. 
In vitro studies indicate that selpercatinib inhibits MATE1, and BCRP, but does not inhibit OAT1, 
OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, BSEP, and MATE2-K at clinically relevant 
concentrations. Selpercatinib may increase serum creatinine by decreasing renal tubular secretion of 
creatinine via inhibition of MATE1.  
Absorption 
After an oral dose of 160 mg, Retsevmo was rapidly absorbed, with Tmax of approximately 2 hours. 
Geometric mean absolute oral bioavailability was 73.2% (range: 60.2-81.5%). 
Effect of food 
Compared to selpercatinib AUC and Cmax in the fasted state, selpercatinib AUC was increased by 9% 
and Cmax was reduced by 14% after oral administration of a single 160 mg dose to healthy subjects 
taken with a high-fat meal. These changes were not considered to be clinically relevant. Therefore, 
selpercatinib can be taken with or without food. 
Distribution 
Selpercatinib mean (CV%) volume of distribution (Vss/F), estimated by Population PK analysis, is 191 
(69%) L following oral administration of selpercatinib in adult patients. Selpercatinib is 96% bound to 
human plasma proteins in vitro and binding is independent of concentration. The blood-to-plasma 
concentration ratio is 0.7. 
Biotransformation 
Selpercatinib is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4. Following oral administration of a single 
[14C] radiolabeled 160 mg dose of selpercatinib to healthy subjects, unchanged selpercatinib 
constituted 86% of the measured radioactive components in plasma.  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
The mean (CV%) clearance (CL/F) of selpercatinib is 6.0 (49%) L/h and the half-life is 22 hours 
following oral administration of selpercatinib in adult patients. Following oral administration of a 
single [14C] radiolabeled 160 mg dose of selpercatinib to healthy subjects, 69% (14% unchanged) of 
the administered radioactivity was recovered in faeces and 24% (11.5% unchanged) was recovered in 
urine. 
Special populations 
Age, gender and body weight 
Age (range: 15 years to 90 years) or gender had no clinically meaningful effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of Retsevmo. Patients with a body weight < 50 kg should start Retsevmo treatment 
with a dose of 120 mg twice daily, while patients ≥ 50 kg should start Retsevmo treatment with a dose 
of 160 mg twice daily.  
Hepatic impairment 
Selpercatinib AUC0-∞ increased by 7% in subjects with mild, 32% in subjects with moderate 
Child-Pugh classification. Thus, selpercatinib exposure (AUC) in subjects with mild and moderate 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A and B) is comparable to exposure in healthy subjects when a 
dose of 160 mg is administered. 
Selpercatinib AUC0-∞ increased by 77% in subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class 
C). There is limited clinical data on the safety of selpercatinib in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment. Therefore, dose modification is recommended for patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(section 4.2).  
Renal impairment 
 In a clinical pharmacology study using single dose selpercatinib 160 mg, exposure (AUC) was 
unchanged in subjects with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. End stage renal disease (eGFR 
<15 ml/min) and dialysis patients have not been studied.  
Paediatric population  
Based on limited pharmacokinetic data, the Cmax and AUC was similar in adolescent patients, 
12-18 years of age, and in adults.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Repeat-dose studies were conducted in juvenile and adolescent/adult rats and adolescent/adult 
minipigs to characterize toxicity. Target organs of toxicity common to the rat and minipig were 
hematopoietic system, lymphoid tissues, tongue, pancreas, gastro-intestinal tract, epiphyseal growth 
plate, and male reproductive tissues. In general, toxicities in these organs were reversible; the 
exceptions were the testicular toxicity in adolescent/adult and juvenile animals, and changes in growth 
plates in juvenile rats. Reversible toxicity was observed in the ovaries in minipigs only. At high doses, 
gastrointestinal toxicity caused morbidity at exposures in minipigs that were generally lower than 
exposures determined in humans at the recommended dose. In one minipig study, females exhibited a 
slight, reversible increase in QTc prolongation of approximately 12% compared to controls and 7 % 
compared to pre-dose values. Target organs of toxicity observed only in rats were incisor tooth, liver, 
vagina, lungs, Brunner’s gland, and multi-tissue mineralization associated with hyperphosphatemia. 
These toxicities only occurring in these organs in rats were reversible. 
Juvenile toxicity 
Selpercatinib exposure approximately 0.5-2 times the exposure in adult humans caused mortality in 
rats younger than 21 days old. Comparable exposure was tolerated in rats aged 21 days and older.  
Juvenile and adolescent/adult rats and adolescent/adult minipigs with open growth plates administered 
selpercatinib exhibited microscopic changes of hypertrophy, hyperplasia, and dysplasia of growth 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
plate cartilage (physis). In juvenile rats, the dysplasia at the growth plates was irreversible and 
associated with decreased femur length and reductions in bone mineral density. Skeletal changes were 
observed at exposure levels equivalent to those seen in adult patients taking the recommended dose of 
160 mg BID. 
Juvenile male rats administered selpercatinib and allowed to reach reproductive age after cessation of 
administration, exhibited decreased reproductive performance when mated with untreated female rats. 
Decreased fertility and copulation indices, increased pre- and post-implantation losses, and decreased 
number of viable embryos, were observed at an exposure approximately 3.4 times the efficacious 
exposure in adults. 
Genotoxicity  
Selpercatinib is not genotoxic at therapeutic doses. In an in vivo micronucleus assay in rats, 
selpercatinib was positive at concentrations >7 times the Cmax at the human dose of 160 mg twice 
daily. In an in vitro micronucleus assay in human peripheral blood lymphocytes, an equivocal 
response was observed at a concentration approximately 485 times the Cmax at the human dose.  
Mutagenesis 
Selpercatinib did not cause mutations in a bacterial mutagenicity assay.  
Carcinogenesis 
Long-term studies to assess the carcinogenic potential of selpercatinib have not been performed. 
Embryotoxicitiy / Teratogenicity 
Based on data from animal reproduction studies and its mechanism of action, selpercatinib can cause 
foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Administration of selpercatinib to pregnant rats 
during organogenesis at maternal exposures that were approximately equal to those observed at the 
recommended human dose of 160 mg twice daily resulted in embryolethality and malformations. 
Reproduction toxicity 
Results of studies conducted in rats and minipigs suggest that selpercatinib could impair fertility 
in males and females.  
In a fertility study in male rats, dose-dependent germ cell depletion and spermatid retention were 
observed at subclinical AUC-based exposure levels (0.2 times the clinical exposure at the 
recommended human dose). These effects were associated with reduced organ weights, reduced 
sperm motility, and an increase in the number of abnormal sperm at AUC-based exposure levels 
approximately twice the clinical exposure at the recommended human dose. Microscopic 
findings in the fertility study in male rats were consistent with effects in repeat dose studies in 
rats and minipigs, in which dose-dependent, non-reversible testicular degeneration was 
associated with reduced luminal sperm in the epididymis at subclinical AUC-based exposure 
levels (0.1 to 0.4 times the clinical exposure at the recommended human dose). 
In a fertility and early embryonic study in female rats, a reduction in the number of estrous 
cycles as well as embryolethality were observed at AUC-based exposure levels approximately 
equal to clinical exposure at the recommended human dose. In repeat-dose studies in rats, 
reversible vaginal mucification with individual cell cornification and altered estrous cycles were 
noted at clinically relevant AUC-based exposure levels. In minipigs, decreased corpora lutea 
and/or corpora luteal cysts were observed at subclinical AUC-based clinical exposure levels 
(0.07 to 0.3 times the clinical exposure at the recommended human dose). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Capsule content 
Cellulose, microcrystalline  
Silica, colloidal anhydrous 
Capsule shell 
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules  
Gelatin  
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron Oxide (E172) 
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules 
Gelatin  
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Brilliant Blue FCF (E133) 
Capsules black ink composition 
Shellac 
Ethanol (96 per cent),  
Isopropyl alcohol 
Butanol 
Propylene glycol 
Water, purified 
Ammonia solution, concentrated 
Potassium hydroxide 
Iron oxide black 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life  
2 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Plastic bottle 
Each pack contains 1 HDPE bottle with a plastic screw cap. 
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules 
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules is supplied as a 60 count HDPE bottle. 
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules 
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules is supplied as 60 count HDPE bottle or 120 count HDPE bottle. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blister pack 
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules 
Supplied as PCTFE/PVC blisters sealed with an aluminium foil in a blister card, in packs of 14, 42, 56 
or 168 hard capsules. 
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules 
Supplied as PCTFE/PVC blisters sealed with an aluminium foil in a blister card, in packs of 14, 28, 56 
or 112 hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Papendorpseweg 83 
3528BJ Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1527/001 
EU/1/20/1527/002 
EU/1/20/1527/003 
EU/1/20/1527/004 
EU/1/20/1527/005 
EU/1/20/1527/006 
EU/1/20/1527/007 
EU/1/20/1527/008 
EU/1/20/1527/009 
EU/1/20/1527/010 
EU/1/20/1527/011 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 February 2021 
Date of latest renewal: 05 January 2024 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
23 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE CONDITIONAL 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release  
Lilly, S.A. 
Avda. de la Industria, 30 
28108 Alcobendas, Madrid 
Spain 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in Article 9 of 
Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 and, accordingly, the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) 
shall submit PSURs every 6 months. 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION  
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14a(4) of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
In order to further confirm the efficacy and safety of selpercatinib in the 
treatment of patients with RET fusion-positive non-small cell lung cancer, the 
MAH should submit the clinical study report of the Phase 3 study J2G-MC-JZJC 
Due date 
31 December 
2024 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
(LIBRETTO-431) comparing selpercatinib to platinum-based and pemetrexed 
therapy with or without pembrolizumab in patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic, RET-fusion-positive non-squamous NSCLC. The CSR should be 
submitted by 
In order to further confirm the efficacy and safety of selpercatinib in the 
treatment of patients with RET-mutant medullary thyroid carcinoma, the MAH 
should submit the clinical study report of the Phase 3 study J2G-MC-JZJB 
(LIBRETTO-531) comparing selpercatinib to physician’s choice of cabozantinib 
or vandetanib in patients with progressive, advanced, kinase inhibitor-naive, 
RET-mutant MTC. The CSR should be submitted by 
In order to further confirm the efficacy and safety of selpercatinib in the 
treatment of patients with RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer, the MAH should 
submit the final data from the study LIBRETTO-121. 
In order to further confirm the efficacy and safety of selpercatinib in the 
treatment of patients with systemic treatment naïve RET fusion-positive thyroid 
cancer, the MAH should submit the final data from the cohort 2 of the pivotal 
study LIBRETTO-001. 
Due date 
30 September 
2025 
30 June 2025 
31 December 
2025 
26 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
PLASTIC BOTTLE - CARTONS FOR 40 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules  
selpercatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE  
Each hard capsule contains 40 mg selpercatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
60 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
Discard unused contents appropriately. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1527/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Retsevmo 40 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING  
PLASTIC BOTTLE - LABEL FOR 40 MG HARD CAPSULES  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules  
selpercatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE  
Each hard capsule contains 40 mg selpercatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
60 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
If inner seal is broken, do not use. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
Discard unused contents appropriately. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Lilly logo  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1527/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER PACK - CARTONS FOR 40 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules  
selpercatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE  
Each hard capsule contains 40 mg selpercatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
14 hard capsules 
42 hard capsules 
56 hard capsules 
168 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
Discard unused contents appropriately. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1527/004 (14 hard capsules) 
EU/1/20/1527/005 (42 hard capsules) 
EU/1/20/1527/006 (56 hard capsules) 
EU/1/20/1527/007 (168 hard capsules) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Retsevmo 40 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS  
BLISTER PACK - BLISTER CARD FOR 40 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules  
selpercatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Lilly 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
OTHER  
morning 
evening 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER PACK - BLISTER TO BE USED INSIDE THE BLISTER CARDS FOR 40 MG 
HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 40 mg 
selpercatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Lilly 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
OTHER  
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
PLASTIC BOTTLE - CARTONS FOR 80 MG HARD CAPSULES  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules  
selpercatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE  
Each hard capsule contains 80 mg selpercatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
60 hard capsules 
120 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
Discard unused contents appropriately. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1527/002 (60 hard capsules) 
EU/1/20/1527/003 (120 hard capsules) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Retsevmo 80 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING  
PLASTIC BOTTLE - LABEL FOR 80 MG HARD CAPSULES  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules  
selpercatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE  
Each hard capsule contains 80 mg selpercatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
60 hard capsules 
120 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
If inner seal is broken, do not use. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
Discard unused contents appropriately. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Lilly logo 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1527/002 (60 hard capsules) 
EU/1/20/1527/003 (120 hard capsules) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER PACK - CARTONS FOR 80 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules  
selpercatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE  
Each hard capsule contains 80 mg selpercatinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
14 hard capsules 
28 hard capsules 
56 hard capsules 
112 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION  
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
Discard unused contents appropriately. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1527/008 (14 hard capsules) 
EU/1/20/1527/009 (28 hard capsules) 
EU/1/20/1527/010 (56 hard capsules) 
EU/1/20/1527/011 (112 hard capsules) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Retsevmo 80 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS  
BLISTER PACK - BLISTER CARD FOR 80 MG HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules  
selpercatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Lilly 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
OTHER  
morning 
evening 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER PACK - BLISTER TO BE USED INSIDE THE BLISTER CARDS FOR 80 MG 
HARD CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Retsevmo 80 mg 
selpercatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Lilly 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
OTHER  
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
Retsevmo 40 mg hard capsules 
Retsevmo 80 mg hard capsules 
selpercatinib 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
This leaflet has been written as though the person taking the medicine is reading it. If you are 
giving this medicine to your child, please replace “you” with “your child” throughout. 
- 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Retsevmo is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Retsevmo 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Retsevmo 
Possible side effects  
How to store Retsevmo 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Retsevmo is and what it is used for 
Retsevmo is an anticancer medicine containing the active substance selpercatinib.  
It is used to treat the following cancers which are caused by certain abnormal changes in the RET gene 
and which have spread and/or cannot be removed by surgery: 
- 
A type of lung cancer called non-small cell lung cancer, in adults who have not previously been 
treated with a RET inhibitor medicine.  
Thyroid cancer (any type) in adults and adolescents 12 years and older if radioactive iodine 
treatment, when appropriate, has failed to control your cancer.  
A rare type of thyroid cancer called medullary thyroid cancer in adults and adolescents 12 years 
and older.    
- 
- 
Your doctor will perform a test to check if your cancer has a change in the RET gene to make sure that 
Retsevmo is right for you. 
How Retsevmo works 
In patients whose cancer has an altered RET gene, the change in the gene causes the body to make an 
abnormal RET protein, which can lead to uncontrolled cell growth and cancer. Retsevmo blocks the 
action of the abnormal RET protein and so may slow or stop the growth of the cancer. It may also help 
to shrink the cancer.  
If you have any questions about how Retsevmo works or why this medicine has been prescribed for 
you, ask your doctor. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Retsevmo 
Do not take Retsevmo  
- 
if you are allergic to selpercatinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Retsevmo: 
- 
- 
- 
If you have lung or breathing problems other than lung cancer. 
If you have high blood pressure. 
If you have been told that you have an abnormality of your heart tracing after an 
electrocardiogram (ECG) known as prolonged QT interval.  
If you have problems with your thyroid or levels of thyroid hormone. 
Retsevmo may affect fertility in females and males, which may affect your ability to have 
children. Talk to your doctor if this is a concern for you. 
If you have a recent history of significant bleeding. 
- 
- 
- 
Retsevmo may cause hypersensitivity reactions such as fever, rash and pain. If you experience any of 
these reactions, talk to your doctor. After checking your symptoms, your doctor may ask you to take 
corticosteroids until your symptoms are better. 
A fast breakdown of cancer cells (tumour lysis syndrome, TLS) can occur when you are taking 
Retsevmo. This can cause irregular heartbeat, kidney failure or abnormal blood test results. Talk to 
your doctor if you have a history of kidney problems or low blood pressure, because this may increase 
the risks associated with TLS. 
See section 4, “Possible side effects”, and talk to your doctor if you have any symptoms.  
What your doctor will check before and during your treatment 
- 
Retsevmo may cause severe, life-threatening, or fatal inflammation of the lungs. Your doctor 
will monitor you before and during treatment with Retsevmo for symptoms. Tell your doctor 
right away if you notice any symptoms of lung problems including breathlessness, cough and 
raised temperature.  
Retsevmo may affect your blood pressure. You will have your blood pressure measured before 
and during treatment with Retsevmo.  
Retsevmo may affect the way your liver works. Tell your doctor right away if you develop 
symptoms of liver problems including: jaundice (yellow discoloration of the skin and eyes), loss 
of appetite, nausea or vomiting, or pain on the upper right side of your stomach area. 
Retsevmo may result in abnormal ECGs. You will have an ECG taken before and during your 
treatment with Retsevmo. Tell your doctor if you experience fainting as it may be a symptom of 
abnormal ECG.  
Retsevmo may affect how your thyroid works. Your doctor will monitor your thyroid function 
before and during treatment with Retsevmo.  
You will have regular blood tests before and during treatment with Retsevmo, to check your 
liver function and electrolytes (such as sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium) in your 
blood.  
If you are 12-18 years of age, your doctor may monitor your growth during treatment. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Children and adolescents 
Retsevmo is not intended for use in patients less than 18 years of age in lung cancer. 
The thyroid cancer (including medullary thyroid cancer) indications do not cover children younger 
than 12 years of age.  
Other medicines and Retsevmo 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist before taking Retsevmo if you are taking the following:  
- 
medicines that may increase the concentration of Retsevmo in the blood: 
o  Clarithromycin (used to treat bacterial infections) 
o 
Itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole (used to treat fungal 
infections) 
o  Atazanavir, ritonavir, cobicistat (used to treat HIV infections/AIDS) 
medicines that may reduce the effectiveness of Retsevmo: 
- 
o  Carbamazepine (used to treat epilepsy, nerve pain, bipolar disorder) 
o  Rifampicin (used to treat tuberculosis (TB) and some other infections) 
o  St. John’s wort (a herbal product used to treat mild depression and anxiety) 
o  Omeprazole, lansoprazole, or other proton pump inhibitors used to treat heartburn, 
ulcers, and acid reflux. If you are taking any of these medicines, then take Retsevmo 
with a full meal 
o  Ranitidine, famotidine or other H2 blockers used to treat ulcers and acid reflux. If you 
are taking any of these medicines, then you need to take them 2 hours after taking 
Retsevmo 
-  medicines whose concentration in the blood might be increased by Retsevmo: 
o  Repaglinide (used to treat type 2 diabetes and control blood sugar) 
o  Dasabuvir (used to treat hepatitis C) 
o  Selexipag (used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
o  Digoxin (used to treat heart disorders) 
o  Lovastatin and simvastatin (used to treat high cholesterol) 
o  Dabigatran (used to prevent and treat blood clots) 
-  medicines that may be less effective when taken with Retsevmo: 
o  Levothyroxine (used to treat hypothyroidism) 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility  
Pregnancy 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor before 
taking this medicine. 
You should not use Retsevmo during pregnancy, since the effect of Retsevmo on the unborn is not 
known.  
Breast-feeding  
Do not breast-feed during treatment with Retsevmo as Retsevmo could harm a breast-fed baby. It is 
not known if Retsevmo passes into breast milk. You should not breast-feed for at least one week after 
your last dose of Retsevmo. 
Contraception 
It is recommended that women avoid becoming pregnant and that men do not father children during 
treatment with Retsevmo, because this medicine could harm the baby. If there is any possibility that 
the person taking this medicine may become pregnant or father a child, they must use adequate 
contraception during treatment and for at least one week after the last dose of Retsevmo. 
Fertility  
Retsevmo can affect your ability to have children. Talk to your doctor to seek advice about fertility 
preservation prior to treatment. 
Driving and using machines  
You should take special care when driving and using machines as you may feel tired or dizzy while 
taking Retsevmo. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to take Retsevmo 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you, at the dose prescribed for 
you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How much to take 
Your doctor will prescribe the right dose for you. The maximum recommended dose is as follows:  
- 
- 
Less than 50 kg body weight: 120 mg twice daily. 
50 kg body weight or greater: 160 mg twice daily. 
Retsevmo is taken twice a day at about the same time every day, preferably in the morning and 
evening.  
If you get certain side effects while you are taking Retsevmo your doctor may lower your dose or stop 
treatment temporarily or permanently. 
You can take the capsules either with or without food. Swallow the capsule whole with a glass of 
water. Do not chew, crush or split the capsule before swallowing. 
Retsevmo is available in blister packs and in bottles. The bottle is protected by a plastic screw cap:  
To open the bottle, push down the plastic screw cap while turning it anticlockwise as shown in 
the picture.  
To close the bottle, turn the cap clockwise tightly. 
If you take more Retsevmo than you should  
If you take too many capsules, or if someone else takes your medicine, contact a doctor or hospital for 
advice. Medical treatment may be necessary. 
If you forget to take Retsevmo  
If you vomit after taking the dose or forget a dose, take your next dose at your usual time. Do not take 
a double dose to make up for the forgotten or vomited dose. 
If you stop taking Retsevmo  
Do not stop taking Retsevmo unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side-effects, although not everybody gets them. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact your doctor immediately for any of the following: 
- 
Lung or breathing problems other than lung cancer with symptoms such as breathlessness, 
cough and raised temperature (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people)  
Liver problems (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people and can be associated with 
abnormalities in liver blood tests, such as increased liver enzymes) including: yellow 
discoloration of the skin and eyes (jaundice), darkening of the urine, loss of appetite, nausea or 
vomiting, or pain on the upper right side of your stomach area 
Allergic reaction typically shown by fever and muscle and joint pain followed by rash (which 
may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
High blood pressure (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people)  
Bleeding with symptoms such as coughing up blood  
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
Reduced number of white blood cells (e.g., lymphocytes, neutrophils, etc.) 
Fluid retention that may cause swelling in your hands or ankles (oedema) 
Increased blood levels of creatinine in tests, which may indicate that kidneys are not working 
properly (renal disorders) 
Diarrhoea 
Fatigue or tiredness 
Dry mouth 
Reduced number of blood platelets, which may cause bleeding and/ bruising 
Rash 
Pain in the belly 
Low blood levels of magnesium 
Constipation  
Nausea (feeling sick) 
Low levels of haemoglobin, which may cause anaemia  
Headache 
Vomiting 
Decreased appetite 
Dizziness 
Abnormal ECG  
Fever or high temperature  
Reduced thyroid activity 
Bleeding symptoms 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common (may affect more than 1 in 100 people) 
- 
Lymph fluid may build up in the lining of your lungs or your stomach cavity, which may cause 
breathing problems or enlargement of the stomach 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Retsevmo 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle label or blister card and 
carton after “EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the inner seal is broken or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Retsevmo contains  
The active substance is selpercatinib. Each hard capsule contains 40 or 80 mg selpercatinib. 
The other ingredients are: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Capsule content: colloidal anhydrous silica, microcrystalline cellulose 
Capsule shell 40 mg: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), and iron oxide (E172). 
Capsule shell 80 mg: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), and brilliant blue FCF (E133). 
Black ink: Shellac, Ethanol (96 per cent), Isopropyl alcohol, Butanol, Propylene glycol, Water, 
purified, Ammonia solution (concentrated), Potassium hydroxide, Iron oxide black 
What Retsevmo looks like and contents of the pack 
Retsevmo 40 mg is supplied as grey opaque hard gelatin capsule, with black “Lilly”, “3977” and 
“40 mg” script.  
Retsevmo 80 mg is supplied as blue opaque hard gelatin capsule, with black “Lilly”, “2980” and 
“80 mg” script.  
Retsevmo is available in a white opaque bottle with a plastic screw cap, containing 60 hard capsules of 
40 mg and either 60 or 120 hard capsules of 80 mg. Each carton contains one bottle.  
Retsevmo is available in blister packs of 14, 42, 56 or 168 hard capsules of 40 mg and 14, 28, 56 or 
112 hard capsules of 80 mg. 
Not all the pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
Manufacturer 
Lilly S.A., Avda. de la Industria 30, 28108 Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
Belgique/België/Belgien 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84 
Lietuva 
Eli Lilly Lietuva 
Tel. +370 (5) 2649600 
България 
ТП "Ели Лили Недерланд" Б.В. - България 
тел. + 359 2 491 41 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84 
Česká republika 
ELI LILLY ČR, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 234 664 111 
Danmark 
Eli Lilly Danmark A/S  
Tlf: +45 45 26 60 00 
Magyarország 
Lilly Hungária Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 328 5100 
Malta 
Charles de Giorgio Ltd. 
Tel: + 356 25600 500 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Lilly Deutschland GmbH 
Tel. + 49-(0) 6172 273 2222 
Eesti 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.  
Tel: +372 6 817 280 
Ελλάδα 
ΦΑΡΜΑΣΕΡΒ-ΛΙΛΛΥ Α.Ε.Β.Ε.  
Τηλ: +30 210 629 4600 
España 
Lilly S.A. 
Tel: + 34-91 663 50 00 
France 
Lilly France 
Tél: +33-(0) 1 55 49 34 34 
Hrvatska 
Eli Lilly Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2350 999 
Nederland 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.  
Tel: + 31-(0) 30 60 25 800 
Norge 
Eli Lilly Norge A.S.  
Tlf: + 47 22 88 18 00 
Österreich 
Eli Lilly Ges.m.b.H.  
Tel: + 43-(0) 1 711 780 
Polska 
Eli Lilly Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 440 33 00 
Portugal 
Lilly Portugal Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: + 351-21-4126600 
România 
Eli Lilly România S.R.L. 
Tel: + 40 21 4023000 
Ireland 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
Slovenija 
Eli Lilly farmacevtska družba, d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0)1 580 00 10 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími + 354 540 8000 
Italia 
Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39- 055 42571 
Κύπρος 
Phadisco Ltd  
Τηλ: +357 22 715000 
Slovenská republika 
Eli Lilly Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 220 663 111 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy Eli Lilly Finland Ab  
Puh/Tel: + 358-(0) 9 85 45 250 
Sverige 
Eli Lilly Sweden AB 
Tel: + 46-(0) 8 7378800 
Latvija 
Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A Pārstāvniecība Latvijā  
Tel: +371 67364000 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
This leaflet was last revised in.  
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine at least every year and 
this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:  
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
53 
 
 
 
 
54 
 
