EMA/54985/2024  
EMEA/H/C/005375 
Retsevmo (selpercatinib) 
An overview of Retsevmo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Retsevmo and what is it used for? 
Retsevmo is a cancer medicine for use in patients whose cancer is caused by changes in a gene called 
RET. It can be used for:  
• 
• 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer in adults not previously treated with a RET inhibitor; 
advanced thyroid cancer in patients from 12 years of age in whom radioactive iodine (an element 
that is taken up by the thyroid gland and leads to thyroid cell death) has not worked or has 
stopped working; 
• 
advanced medullary thyroid cancer in patients aged from 12 years. 
Retsevmo contains the active substance selpercatinib. 
How is Retsevmo used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised 
by a doctor experienced in the use of cancer treatments. 
Retsevmo is available as capsules to be taken by mouth twice daily. Treatment with Retsevmo can 
continue until it stops working or the patient has severe side effects. 
For more information about using Retsevmo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Retsevmo work? 
The active substance in Retsevmo, selpercatinib, is a RET inhibitor which belongs to a broader class of 
cancer medicines known as tyrosine kinase inhibitors. It blocks the activity of abnormal proteins, which 
are made by the body due to changes in the RET gene. In patients with such changes, these abnormal 
proteins can lead to uncontrolled cell growth and cancer. By blocking the proteins, selpercatinib helps 
to reduce the growth and spread of cancer cells.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Retsevmo have been shown in studies? 
In one main study in patients with cancers caused by abnormalities in the RET gene, Retsevmo was 
effective at reducing tumour size. In this study, Retsevmo was not compared with other medicines or 
placebo (a dummy treatment).  
Advanced non-small cell lung cancer 
In adults with non-small cell lung cancer who had previously been treated with platinum-based 
chemotherapy, the cancer shrank in 64% (67 out of 105) of patients treated with Retsevmo. In 
previously untreated patients, 84% (58 out of 69) had a complete (no signs of cancer) or partial 
(shrinkage of the tumour) response to treatment with Retsevmo.  
Advanced thyroid cancer 
In 19 adults with thyroid cancer who had previously been treated with sorafenib or lenvatinib or both, 
the cancer shrank in 79% of patients. 
In 24 adults with thyroid cancer who did not receive other treatments besides radioactive iodine, the 
cancer shrank in around 96% (23 out of 24) of these patients.  
In a study in patients from 12 to 21 years of age who had been previously treated or could not receive  
available treatments, the cancer shrank in 60% (6 out of 10) of patients. Based on these data and 
because the medicine is distributed in, and removed from, the body of these patients in the same way 
as in adults, Retsevmo is expected to be effective in adolescents. 
Advanced medullary thyroid cancer 
In adults and adolescents from 15 years of age with medullary thyroid cancer, the cancer shrank in 
73.5% (111 out of 151) of patients who had previously been treated with cabozantinib or vandetanib, 
and in 81% (115 out of 142) of patients who had not previously received treatment with cabozantinib 
or vandetanib. 
Retsevmo is also expected to be effective in adolescents from 12 years of age with medullary thyroid 
cancer because the medicine is distributed in, and removed from, the body of these patients in the 
same way as in adults. 
What are the risks associated with Retsevmo? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Retsevmo, see the package leaflet. 
The most common serious side effects with Retsevmo (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include 
pneumonia (infection of the lung), headache, hypersensitivity (allergic reactions), high blood pressure, 
abdominal (belly) pain, diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, fever, tiredness, bleeding, blood 
tests showing changes in liver enzymes (indicating stress on the liver), increased creatinine (indicating 
kidney problems) and chylothorax (a condition in which fluid leaks into the space between lungs and 
the chest wall). 
Why is Retsevmo authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Retsevmo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
Retsevmo is effective at treating non-small cell lung cancer and certain thyroid cancers caused by 
changes to the RET gene, reducing the size of the cancer in most patients. Its side effects are 
Retsevmo (selpercatinib)  
EMA/54985/2024 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
considered manageable. At the time of the medicine’s approval for these conditions, treatment options 
were limited and Retsevmo addressed an medical need for these patients.  
There are uncertainties concerning the long-term safety and effectiveness of Retsevmo due to a lack of 
comparator treatment and a small number of patients included in the studies. However, these will be 
addressed by studies conducted by the company that markets Retsevmo. 
Retsevmo has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that the European Medicines Agency 
decided that the benefits of Retsevmo are greater than its risks, but the company will have to provide 
additional evidence after authorisation. Conditional authorisation is granted on the basis of less 
comprehensive data than are normally required. It is granted for medicines that fulfil an unmet 
medical need to treat serious diseases and when the benefits of having them available earlier outweigh 
any risks associated with using the medicines while waiting for further evidence. Every year, the 
Agency will review any new information that becomes available until data become comprehensive and 
this overview will be updated as necessary. 
Since Retsevmo has been given conditional authorisation, at the time of approval the company 
marketing Retsevmo was required to provide results of studies to confirm its long-term efficacy and 
safety, particularly in comparison with other medicines that are used for the cancers for which 
Retsevmo has been authorised.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Retsevmo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Retsevmo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Retsevmo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Retsevmo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Retsevmo 
Retsevmo received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 11 February 
2021. 
Further information on Retsevmo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/retsevmo.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2024. 
Retsevmo (selpercatinib)  
EMA/54985/2024 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
