Summary of risk management plan for Revatio 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Revatio. The RMP details important 
risks of Revatio, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Revatio's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Revatio's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Revatio should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Revatio should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Revatio's 
RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
Revatio is authorised for treatment of adult patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
classified as World Health Organization (WHO) functional class II and III, to improve exercise 
capacity.  (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains sildenafil citrate as the active substance, 
and it is given by oral route of administration or as a solution for injection.  
Further information about the evaluation of Revatio’s benefits can be found in Revatio’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/revatio 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further Characterise 
the Risks 
Important risks of Revatio, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Revatio's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Revatio is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Revatio are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Revatio. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1.  List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
•  Vaso-occlusive crisis in patients with sickle cell disease 
Increased relative mortality in the paediatric population 
• 
•  Bleeding events (excluding epistaxis) 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  Non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy (NAION) 
•  Pulmonary haemorrhage in paediatric patients 
•  Long-term ocular safety 
•  Safety in pregnancy 
•  Long-term mortality 
II.B. Summary of Important Risks 
Table 2. 
Important Identified Risk: Vaso-occlusive Crisis in Patients with Sickle Cell 
Disease  
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
The rationale for the addition of risk of vaso-occlusive crisis in 
patients with sickle cell anaemia was based on results of the Walk 
PHaSST (treatment of Pulmonary Hypertension and Sickle cell 
disease with Sildenafil Therapy) Study.  This study was a multicentre, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind, 16-week trial evaluating the safety 
and efficacy of oral sildenafil for the treatment of Doppler-defined 
PAH (tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity [TRV] ≥2.7 m/s) in adults and 
children (aged >12 years) with sickle cell anaemia.  The planned 
sample size was 132 randomised subjects with an 80% – 90% power 
to detect 40 metres treatment difference on the change in 6-minute 
walk distance (6MWD) from baseline.  The Walk PHaSST study was 
sponsored by the US National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute 
 
 
Table 2. 
Important Identified Risk: Vaso-occlusive Crisis in Patients with Sickle Cell 
Disease  
(NHLBI), and the MAH’s participation was limited to the provision 
of the active compound sildenafil citrate. 
This study was terminated early by the NHLBI based on the Data 
Safety Monitoring Board’s recommendation because of more serious 
adverse events of vaso-occlusive crisis in the sildenafil (PAH)-treated 
arm compared with placebo.  Seventy-four subjects were randomised, 
37 in each arm.  In the sildenafil (PAH) group, 13 individuals (35%) 
reported 18 vasoocclusive crises, compared with 5 individuals (14%) 
with 8 crises in the placebo group, a difference that was considered 
statistically significant (p=0.029). 
A review of clinical studies reported in the literature has failed to 
identify other reports of vaso-occlusive crisis occurring when patients 
with sickle cell anaemia have been treated with sildenafil (PAH), or 
identify a definitive biologically plausible mechanism, by which 
sildenafil (PAH) might increase the risk of vaso-occlusive crisis in 
subjects with sickle cell anaemia.  Published reports have suggested a 
potential role for sildenafil in the treatment of patients with PAH 
associated with sickle cell disease. In these uncontrolled studies, 
sildenafil (PAH) appeared to be well tolerated and improved 
functional capacity and decreased estimated right ventricular systolic 
pressures. 
The results of the Walk PHaSST study are inconsistent with these 
previously published reports.  Analysis of the final study cohort 
suggested there was no treatment effect between sildenafil and 
placebo on 6MWD (p=0.703), TRV (p=0.503), or NT-proBNP 
(p=0.410).  However, the final analysed study cohort (N = 74) was 
much smaller than the pre-specified sample size (N = 132) based on 
the power calculation put forth in the original protocol. 
Several confounders were identified in the Walk PHaSST study: 
•  Baseline imbalances in the study treatment groups may have 
predisposed to the occurrence of vaso-occlusive crisis in the 
sildenafil (PAH) group.  Patients in the sildenafil (PAH) group 
appeared to have worse disease at baseline as evidenced by 
lower haemoglobin and significantly higher creatinine and 
higher NT-pro BNP. 
 Not all patients were on maximized sickle cell disease 
specific therapy prior to initiating study treatment, for 
example hydroxyurea. 
• 
•  Hospitalization rates prior to enrolment in Walk-PHaSST 
were not collected and therefore it was not possible to 
evaluate the bias due to previous vaso-occlusive crisis.  This 
information is critical to understanding the study data as 
 
Table 2. 
Important Identified Risk: Vaso-occlusive Crisis in Patients with Sickle Cell 
Disease  
patients hospitalized for sickle cell disease have higher risk of 
re-hospitalization. The absence of this information represents 
a major challenge to the interpretation of the Walk PHaSST 
data.Concomitant medical events occurring during the study 
may have also been a factor in the incidence of vaso-occlusive 
crisis.  A review of these events demonstrates that 9/13 
(~70%) of patients receiving sildenafil (PAH), compared to 
2/5 (40%) in the placebo group experienced a concomitant AE 
which may have predisposed to a vaso-occlusive crisis. 
Patients with sickle cell disease. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use 
PL Section 2, What you need to know before you take Revatio  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None.  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Table 3. 
Important Identified Risk: Increased Relative Mortality in the Paediatric 
Population 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Data from Study A1481156, the long-term, open-label extension to 
the sildenafil (PAH) paediatric pivotal study (A1481131), provides 
evidence which suggests an increased risk of mortality in paediatric 
patients treated with high doses of sildenafil (PAH), compared to low 
doses, as defined in the study.  The number (%) of deaths was 5/55 
(9.1%), 13/74 (17.6%) and 24/100 (24%) in sildenafil low, medium 
and high dose groups, respectively, in Study A1481156 (see Table 
below) 
Summary of Deaths n (%) by Weight Group and Sildenafil 
(PAH) Dose Group 
Body Weight 
(kg) a 
Sildenafil 
(PAH) 
Low Dose  
(N = 55) 
NA 
- 
N = 40 
n = 3 (7.5%) 
Sildenafil 
(PAH) 
Medium Dose 
(N = 74) 
N = 20 
n = 1 (5.0%) 
N = 40 
n = 10 
(25.0%) 
N = 14 
Sildenafil 
(PAH) 
High Dose 
(N = 100) 
N = 44 
n = 6 (13.6%) 
N = 41 
n = 15 
(36.6%) 
N = 15 
8–20 
>20–45 
>45 
N = 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. 
Important Identified Risk: Increased Relative Mortality in the Paediatric 
Population 
Total 
n = 2 (13.3%)  n = 2 (14.3%)  n = 3 (20.0%) 
N = 74 
n = 13 
(17.6%) 
N = 100 
n = 24 
(24.0%) 
N = 55 
n = 5 (9.1%) 
Produced by summation of sildenafil dose group with placebo + 
sildenafil (PAH) dose group. 
NA: not applicable 
a. For placebo subjects in Study A1481131, weights collected at 
Week 16 were used. Subject 11612 randomly assigned to 
sildenafil (PAH) medium dose in Study A1481131 had a 
baseline weight of 44.6 kg, but was incorrectly assigned to the 
>45 kg weight group for randomization stratification. In this 
table, the subject is correctly assigned to the weight group of 
>20-45 kg 
The Kaplan-Meier survival estimates for the low, medium, and high 
randomised dose groups at 3 years were 94%, 93%, and 88%, 
respectively.  These survival rates are substantially higher than 
reported in children with PAH prior to the availability of targeted 
PAH therapies.  The 1, 3, and 5 year survival rates of paediatric PAH 
patients prior to the availability of targeted therapy have been 
reported as a range of 37%-66%, 29%-52%, and 29%-35%, 
respectively.   
Across all dose groups, the probability of survival at Year 1, Year 2 
and Year 3 relative to the start of sildenafil (PAH) ranged from 99%-
100%, 93%-96% and 88%-94%, respectively.  Kaplan-Meier 
estimates are likely to be over estimates, as those subjects lost to 
follow-up may have a poorer survival prognosis than those subjects 
whose survival status was known. 
Forty-two (42) deaths were reported in Study A1481156.  Of these, 
37 deaths were reported as serious adverse events and none was 
considered to be treatment-related by the investigators.  An additional 
5 deaths were reported as part of the survival follow-up.  Examination 
of the baseline characteristics of the subjects who died revealed that 
the majority of subjects had primary PAH, more commonly were 
Functional Class III or IV, and generally had more severe 
haemodynamic abnormalities at baseline. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Paediatric patients aged between 1 and 17 years. 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. 
Important Identified Risk: Increased Relative Mortality in the Paediatric 
Population 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2, Posology and method of administration  
SmPC Section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use 
Section 5.1, Pharmacodynamic properties 
PL Section 3, How to take Revatio  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Table 4. 
Important Identified Risk: Bleeding Events (Excluding Epistaxis)  
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Bleeding events (excluding epistaxis) have been report in sildenafil 
(PAH) clinical trials and in the post-marketing setting.  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Patients with bleeding disorders, active peptic ulceration or patients 
using a vitamin K antagonist.   
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use 
Section 4.8, Undesirable effects  
PL Section 2, What you need to know before you take Revatio  
PL Section 4, Possible side effects 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. 
Important Potential Risk: Non-arteritic Anterior Ischaemic Optic 
Neuropathy (NAION) 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Non-interventional Study (A1481259) 
An observational non-interventional, case-crossover Study 
(A1481259) was conducted to examine whether as-needed use of 
PDE5 inhibitors for treatment of erectile dysfunction, as a class 
(including Viagra, vardenafil, or tadalafil) triggers the onset of acute 
NAION within a pharmacokinetically-defined time period 
(approximately 5 half-lives) following drug ingestion.  A total of 673 
subjects who met the potential acute NAION case criteria were 
enrolled across 66 sites.  Seventy-six (76) subjects were exposed and 
597 subjects were unexposed to PDE5 inhibitor in the 60 day period 
prior to the onset of NAION symptoms.  In the primary analysis, the 
PDE5 inhibitor exposure status of the day preceding NAION 
symptom onset (the case window) was compared with the PDE5 
inhibitor exposure status of the 29 days preceding the case window 
(the 29 control windows). 
For the 43 Definite NAION cases, the estimated odds ratio (OR) was 
2.15 and the 95% CI was (1.06, 4.34) based on conditional logistic 
regression.  This OR suggests a 2.15 fold increase in the odds of acute 
NAION onset within 5 half-lives of PDE5 inhibitor use as compared 
with PDE5 inhibitor use prior to the pharmacokinetically-defined 
time window but within the 30 days prior to onset.  For the Definite 
and Possible NAION cases combined, the OR was 2.36 (95% CI 
1.33, 4.19). 
The primary analysis of Definite NAION cases suggests an 
approximately 2-fold increased risk of NAION within 5 half-lives of 
PDE5 inhibitor use; given that the outcome is rare, the OR may be 
interpreted as an estimate of the relative risk.  To put these findings 
into context, the absolute risk (ie, risk difference) was estimated by 
applying the estimated OR of 2.36 based on subjects adjudicated as 
Definite or Possible NAION cases to an estimate of the background 
annual risk of NAION and accounting for the average proportion of 
days in a given year that a PDE5 inhibitor user is exposed.  Using 
conservative assumptions, PDE5 inhibitor use is estimated to add 3 to 
8 cases per 100,000 males 50 years and older per year. 
Other population-based observational studies 
The sildenafil Prescription Event Monitoring (PEM) post-marketing 
study of more than 28,000 patients receiving a UK National Health 
Service prescription for the drug was independently conducted by the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. 
Important Potential Risk: Non-arteritic Anterior Ischaemic Optic 
Neuropathy (NAION) 
Drug Safety Research Unit (DSRU) at the University of Southampton 
between 1998 and 2001.  Two different cohorts comprise the study 
population; the first cohort of 5601 patients was observed for a mean 
of 6 months and the second cohort of 22,473 patients was observed 
for a mean of almost 18 months.  Only one case of NAION, in the 
second cohort, was reported to the DSRU over the course of the 
study.  Based on the approximately 35,569 person-years of 
observation during Cohorts I and II, the unadjusted incidence of 
NAION in the PEM study is 2.8 per 100,000 person-years, and is 
consistent with the rate obtained by Johnson (2.5 per 100,000 men per 
year). 
The International Men’s Health Study (IMHS),  a prospective cohort 
study conducted by the MAH between 2001 and 2004 of 3813 men 
(mean age=57 years, range: 18 – 100) receiving a Viagra prescription 
in Germany, France, Spain, and Sweden, identified no cases of 
NAION during 2935 patient-years of follow-up.  A further search of 
the MAH safety database identified two cases from the IMHS that 
reported “optic nerve disorder”: one mentioned “anterior optic nerve 
ischaemia” in a 52-year-old man with prior loss of an eye (reason for 
the loss unspecified); the other was reported as “optic nerve 
impairment” in a 57 year-old man.  In addition to age, both cases 
described other significant predisposing factors such as 
hyperlipidemia, hypertension, prior myocardial infarction, and prior 
cardiac catheterization, and it is unknown when and if sildenafil was 
used around the time of their optic nerve event onset. 
Post-Marketing Experience 
NAION has been reported rarely in the post-marketing setting with 
the use of all PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil. 
Although the aetiology of NAION is unknown, many of its risk 
factors are similar to those for erectile dysfunction such as ischaemic 
heart disease, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes, and 
increased age. Other potential risk factors for NAION are sleep 
apnea, hyperhomocystinemia, the presence of a disc-at-risk, cataract 
extraction and intraocular lens surgery, disorders of blood coagulation 
and specifically thrombotic tendency.  
A growing body of evidence suggests an association between 
thrombophilic risk factors and NAION,  particularly when other 
associated microvascular risk factors (hypertension, diabetes, 
hyperlipidemia, smoking) cannot specifically be identified.  In 
particular, Glueck et al (2004) demonstrated an association between 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. 
Important Potential Risk: Non-arteritic Anterior Ischaemic Optic 
Neuropathy (NAION) 
NAION and homozygosity for the C677T 
methylenetetrahydropholate reductase mutation.  Patients with 
NAION were also more likely to carry other genetic mutations 
associated with thrombophilia.  Women with NAION were more 
likely to have estrogen-induced thrombophilia than were controls.  
Alterations of the immune system may be a risk factor that NAION 
and pulmonary PAH share.  Antiphospholipid syndrome frequently 
presents with arterial and/or venous thrombosis in association with 
laboratory evidence of persistent lupus anticoagulant, and the 
thrombotic risk in these patients is increased by additional risk factors 
such as the factor V Leiden mutation. Johnson reported that NAION 
typically affects those in the 6th decade of life with the median 
occurrence at 62 years, but incidence can range from 40-80+ years.  
In addition, cases of NAION in women and at younger age have been 
reported linked to conditions associated with alteration of the immune 
system (Reiter’s syndrome), antiphospholipid syndrome. 
Other ophthalmologic risk factors have been identified; patients who 
have experienced an episode of NAION in one eye are at higher risk 
of having it occur in the opposite eye, as well as those who have had 
cataract extraction, intraocular lens surgery, or who have a ‘disc at 
risk’. Case reports of NAION have also been reported with 
medications, including systemic interferon alpha therapy, influenza 
vaccination, amiodarone, sumatriptan, and the use of some 
amphetamine derivatives such as phentermine. However the evidence 
for a causal relationship between these drugs and NAION is 
inadequate, and the potential mechanism(s) involved for such 
disparate pharmacologic classes are still unknown. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.3, Contraindications 
SmPC Section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use 
SmPC Section 4.8 Undesirable effects  
PL Section 2, What you need to know before you take Revatio  
PL Section 4, Possible side effects 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. 
Important Potential Risk: Pulmonary Haemorrhage in Paediatric Patients 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
A publication in 2014 described pulmonary haemorrhage in two 
extremely premature babies (<30 weeks gestational age) treated off-
label with sildenafil for respiratory failure and patent ductus 
arteriosus.  Both cases originated from a small retrospective study of 
6 children treated at the same hospital in Austria.  The two children 
developed pulmonary haemorrhage 19 and 66 hours after the start of 
sildenafil treatment.  The conclusion of the publication stated that 
sildenafil treatment seems effective in improving severe pulmonary 
hypertension and haemodynamic instability in extremely preterm 
infants with refractory pulmonary hypertension, but that pulmonary 
haemorrhage may represent a distinct adverse effect of sildenafil 
treatment in these patients, presumably due to the sudden reversal of 
ductal shunt.  Accordingly, sildenafil should be restricted to most 
severe and refractory cases in this population.  
Pulmonary haemorrhage in paediatric patients has been added as an 
important potential risk at the request of the EMA PRAC, following 
its assessment  of the MAH’s comprehensive safety evaluation of the 
preclinical data, published medical literature, clinical safety and post-
marketing safety data involving the topic of pulmonary haemorrhage 
in paediatric patients receiving sildenafil for PAH.  The EMA PRAC 
reviewed the data and agreed with the MAH’s conclusion that there 
was at present insufficient evidence to establish a causal relationship 
between pulmonary haemorrhage and sildenafil in paediatric patients; 
however, in consideration of the seriousness and life-threatening 
nature of pulmonary haemorrhage in premature children, the PRAC 
final recommendation (May 2015) was to include pulmonary 
haemorrhage in the RMP as an important potential risk at the next 
regulatory opportunity and closely monitor this potential risk in future 
period safety update reports  (PSURs). Of note, no SmPC revisions 
were requested by the EMA PRAC with regards to pulmonary 
haemorrhage. 
Pulmonary haemorrhage may develop more likely in preterm 
newborns with more incident BPD; in PAH patients treated with 
inhaled nitric oxide (NO), especially concomitant with sildenafil; in 
infants with low birth weight and premature gestational age, 
respiratory distress syndrome, infection, male gender and the 
presence of patent ductus arteriosus. 
No risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7.  Missing Information: Long-term Ocular Safety 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
No risk minimisation measures. 
Table 8.  Missing Information: Safety in Pregnancy 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
PL Section 2, What you need to know before you take Revatio  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Table 9.  Missing Information: Long-term Mortality  
Risk minimisation 
measures 
No risk minimisation measures 
II.C. Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies, which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Revatio. 
II.C.2. Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Study A1481324 
Purpose of the study: To test for the non inferiority of sildenafil 80 mg versus 5 mg for mortality; 
i.e., mortality rate with the 80 mg dose is no worse than double the mortality rate for the 5 mg 
dose. 
Study A1481319 
Purpose of the study: To obtain the information on dosage and administration, safety, and 
effectiveness of sildenafil (PAH) when it is administered for a long period of time (1 year) under 
the actual use by paediatric patients treated with sildenafil (PAH) in Japan.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
