26 March 2020 
EMA/271458/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): teduglutide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00009305/201908 
Period covered by the PSUR: 29/08/2018 To: 29/08/2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for teduglutide, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Based on cumulative data on renal disorders from registry TED-R13-002, literature, post-marketing and 
clinical studies chronic renal disorders are an underlying complication of patients with short bowel 
syndrome (SBS) receiving parenteral nutrition. Whilst not directly related to the treatment with teduglutide, 
also acute and renal failure (ARF) which is a serious condition occurs frequently in the post-marketing 
setting. ARF appears to be due to dehydration and other metabolic stressors such as infection, intestinal 
obstruction and during the postoperative period. In general, dehydration can be prevented by appropriate 
and timely monitoring for fluid and electrolyte imbalance, and subsequent adjustment of parenteral fluid 
and electrolytes. Considering the seriousness of ARF and its preventability, the warning on the risks of 
dehydration and fluid imbalances was strengthened and the package leaflet was updated accordingly.   
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for teduglutide the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing teduglutide is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
