Summary of risk management plan for REVINTY ELLIPTA (fluticasone 
furoate/vilanterol)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for REVINTY ELLIPTA. The RMP 
details important risks of REVINTY ELLIPTA, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more information will be obtained about REVINTY ELLIPTA risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
REVINTY ELLIPTA's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how REVINTY ELLIPTA 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for REVINTY ELLIPTA should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
REVINTY ELLIPTA's RMP. 
I The medicine and what it is used for 
REVINTY ELLIPTA is authorised for the regular treatment of asthma in adults and 
adolescents aged 12 years and older where use of a combination medicinal product (long-
acting beta-2-agonist and inhaled corticosteroid) is appropriate (i.e. patients not adequately 
controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and 'as needed'  inhaled short acting beta-2-agonist) and 
patients already adequately controlled on both inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta-2-
agonist. REVINTY ELLIPTA is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of adults with COPD 
with a FEV1<70% predicted normal (post-bronchodilator) with an exacerbation history despite 
regular bronchodilator therapy (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains fluticasone 
furoate/ vilanterol as the active substance and it is given by inhalation. For Asthma: FF/VI 
100/25mcg (delivered dose 92/22mcg), FF/VI 200/25mcg (delivered dose 184/22mcg) once 
daily and for COPD: FF/VI 100/25mcg (delivered dose 92/22mcg) once daily. 
Further information about the evaluation of REVINTY ELLIPTA’s benefits can be found in 
REVINTY ELLIPTA’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/revinty-ellipta. 
II Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of REVINTY ELLIPTA together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about REVINTY ELLIPTA's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 

Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
1 



Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment - so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of REVINTY ELLIPTA is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of REVINTY ELLIPTA are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of REVINTY ELLIPTA. Potential risks 
are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Pneumonia in patients with COPD and asthma 
Important potential risks 
Serious cardiovascular events 
Missing information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Corticosteroid-associated eye disorders 
II.B Summary of important risks
Important Identified Risk: Pneumonia in patients with COPD and asthma 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
In two replicate 12 month studies (HZC102871 and HZC102970) 
in a total of 3,255 patients with COPD who had experienced a 
COPD exacerbation in the previous year, there was a higher 
incidence of pneumonia (6%-7%) reported in patients receiving 
the fluticasone furoate (at strengths of 50, 100, and 200 
micrograms)/vilanterol 25 micrograms combination than in those 
receiving vilanterol 25 micrograms alone (3%). Pneumonia which 
2 
required hospitalisation occurred in 3% of patients receiving 
fluticasone furoate/vilanterol (all strengths) and in <1% of patients 
receiving vilanterol. In these studies, nine fatal cases of 
pneumonia were reported. Of these, seven were reported during 
treatment with fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 200/25 micrograms, 
one during treatment with fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 100/25 
micrograms and one post-treatment with vilanterol monotherapy. 
Risk factors for pneumonia observed in these studies included 
current smokers, patients with a history of prior pneumonia, 
patients with a body mass index <25 kg/m2 and patients with an 
FEV1<50% predicted. 
There was no significant evidence in SLS-COPD of any difference 
in pneumonia risk between FF/VI and usual care which included 
FP/salmeterol and other ICS/LABAs. The data in SLS-COPD are 
consistent with the PRAC review (EMA: EMA/H/A-31/1415, 
2016), which did not find any conclusive evidence of differences 
in pneumonia risk for different inhaled corticosteroid medicines in 
the treatment of COPD. In SUMMIT, when FF/VI was compared 
with placebo, there was no meaningful difference in the incidence 
of pneumonia. 
Recent evidence suggests that asthma is an independent risk 
factor for pneumonia. In asthma, an integrated analysis of all 
FF/VI clinical studies regardless of duration and patient 
population showed that the incidence of pneumonia was low 
(<1%) in all treatment groups (ISS V2 Doc Ref 2013N187157). 
The calculated incidence of pneumonia (adjusted for exposure) 
for FF/VI 100/25 mcg of 8.5/1000 subject years was similar to 
placebo (9.3/1000 subject years). This is in line with literature 
evidence of the incidence of pneumonia reported in the general 
population. A slightly higher incidence in the FF/VI 200/25 mcg 
arm was observed (18.3/ 1000 subject years). For both 
pneumonia and serious pneumonia incidences calculated, 
confidence intervals were wide and overlapped across all 
treatment groups including placebo. 
In SLS-Asthma, when analysed by current treatment, the 
incidence of Pneumonia was similar between FF/VI and other 
asthma maintenance therapy (usual care). 
A detailed analysis of potential risk factors demonstrates 
increased hazard ratios with FF/VI compared with VI for BMI<25 
kg/m2, current smoker, history of pneumonia at screening and 
FEV1<50% predicted. A BMI21 kg/m2, also shows a strong
relationship with event of pneumonia. 
Both lower BMI and low FEV1 are known risks for pneumonia and 
worse outcomes with pneumonia. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
3 
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.8, PIL section 2, 4 (see Approved 
Product Information). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
Important Potential Risk: Serious cardiovascular events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Cardiovascular events occurred at a similar incidence to placebo 
(in controlled studies). 
In SUMMIT (HZC113782), the risk of an on-treatment CV 
composite event was similar among all treatment groups. These 
data support the lack of a significant effect of FF/VI on all-cause 
mortality, which is primarily driven by CV mortality. In this 
population with history and/or risk of CV disease, subjects treated 
with VI (as VI alone or FF/VI) did not report a higher incidence or 
exposure-adjusted rate of cardiovascular events (assessed by all 
terms in MedDRA SMQs of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmia, 
cardiac failure, ischemic heart disease, and central nervous 
system haemorrhages and cerebrovascular conditions). 
In asthma, there were very few adverse events within the cardiac 
system disorder class. 
Older age, a history of previous cardiac disease and worse lung 
function were predictive of increased risk of cardiovascular events 
in the COPD population. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4, PIL section 2, 3, 4 (see Approved Product 
Information). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
Important Potential Risk: Corticosteroid-associated eye disorders 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
This is considered a class risk for ICS-containing products. There 
were few ocular associated adverse events reported during 
clinical studies. In the COPD placebo controlled lung function 
studies these were few events, and these were distributed across 
the treatment arms, including placebo. In the COPD one year 
4 
exacerbation studies, the incidence of events was similar across 
treatment arms, and there was no clear difference between 
events on arms containing FF, than in the VI monotherapy 
treatment arm. These events are likely to represent the 
background rate in this population. In the SUMMIT study, the 
incidence of corticosteroid associated eye disorders was similar 
across treatment arms including placebo. The proportion of 
subjects experiencing at least one ADR/ one serious AE of 
special interest of corticosteroid associated eye disorders was 
similar between the two treatment arms. There were few ocular 
associated adverse events reported during the Asthma studies. In 
the one year safety study (HZA106839) Ophthalmic 
examinations, including Lens Opacities Classification System, 
Version III (LOCS III) lens grades, intraocular pressure (IOP), 
horizontal cup-to-disc ratio, and visual acuity using Logarithm of 
the Minimum Angle of Resolution (LogMAR), were performed at 
Screening, Week 28 and Week 52. Of these ophthalmic 
measures, the posterior subcapsular opacity (P) lens grade is 
considered to be the most relevant assessment of drug-related 
cataract formation. The results of this study showed that FF/VI 
100/25 and FF/VI 200/25 had no apparent ophthalmic effects, 
including lens opacification and IOP. 
As a clear association with glaucoma and cataract has not been 
demonstrated with inhaled corticosteroids, it is not possible to 
determine any specific risk factors. 
It can be assumed that those patients with a predisposition for 
glaucoma or cataract may be more at risk from any additional 
influences. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4, PIL section 2, 4 (see Approved Product 
Information). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
Missing information: Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.6 and PIL section 2 (see Approved Product 
Information). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
5 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.I Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
REVINTY ELLIPTA. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
There are no studies required for REVINTY ELLIPTA. 
6 
