EMA/120116/2018  
EMEA/H/C/002745 
Revinty Ellipta (fluticasone furoate / vilanterol) 
An overview of Revinty Ellipta and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Revinty Ellipta and what is it used for? 
Revinty Ellipta is an inhaler for treating asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
In asthma, it is used for regular treatment of patients from 12 years of age: 
•  whose symptoms are not controlled with an inhaled corticosteroid and an inhaled short-acting 
beta-2 agonist; 
•  whose symptoms are adequately controlled with both inhaled corticosteroids and a long-acting 
beta-2 agonist. 
In COPD, it is used in adults who have flare-ups of the disease despite regular bronchodilator 
treatment (treatment to widen the airways). 
Revinty Ellipta contains the active substances fluticasone furoate and vilanterol. 
This medicine is the same as Relvar Ellipta, which is already authorised in the EU. The company that 
makes Relvar Ellipta has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Revinty Ellipta (‘informed 
consent’). 
How is Revinty Ellipta used? 
Relvar Ellipta is available as an inhaler in two strengths (92/22 micrograms and 184/22 micrograms). 
The doctor will decide which inhaler the patient should use. The dose is one inhalation (‘puff’) into the 
mouth once a day at the same time each day. 
Revinty Ellipta can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Revinty 
Ellipta, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Revinty Ellipta work? 
Revinty Ellipta contains two active substances that work in different ways to improve breathing in 
patients with asthma and COPD.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Fluticasone furoate is a corticosteroid. It works on various types of immune cells, blocking the release 
of substances involved in inflammation. This reduces inflammation in the airways and improves the 
patient’s breathing. 
Vilanterol is a long-acting beta-2 agonist. It attaches to beta-2 receptors in the airways and causes the 
muscles of the airways to relax and widen, allowing the patient to breathe more easily.  
What benefits of Revinty Ellipta have been shown in studies? 
Asthma 
Three studies in over 3,200 patients showed that Revinty Ellipta improves breathing and reduces flare- 
ups in patients with persistent asthma.  
In two of the studies, Revinty Ellipta 92/22 increased the volume of air a patient could breathe out in 
one second (FEV1) by 36 ml more than fluticasone furoate alone and 172 ml more than placebo (a 
dummy treatment). Revinty Ellipta 184/22 also improved FEV1 by 193 ml more than fluticasone furoate 
and 210 ml more than another inhaler containing fluticasone propionate. 
In a third study, fewer patients taking Revinty Ellipta 92/22 had at least one severe flare-up after a 
year of treatment than those taking fluticasone furoate alone (13% versus 16%). 
A fourth study in 1,522 patients showed that Revinty Ellipta was as effective as another medicine 
containing a corticosteroid (fluticasone propionate) and a long-acting beta-2 agonist (salmeterol). 
These patients were already well controlled with the comparator medicine and Revinty Ellipta 
treatment was able to maintain their FEV1. 
COPD 
Four studies in over 5,500 patients showed that Revinty Ellipta improves breathing and reduces flare 
ups of symptoms in patients with COPD. 
The first study showed that Revinty Ellipta 92/22 improved average FEV1 by 115 ml more than 
placebo, and a second study showed that Revinty Ellipta 184/22 improved average FEV1 by 131 ml 
more than placebo. 
In two further studies, Revinty Ellipta reduced the number of flare-ups by between 13 and 34% more 
than vilanterol alone 
What are the risks associated with Revinty Ellipta? 
The most common side effects with Revinty Ellipta (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat). More serious side effects include 
pneumonia and fractures (seen in up to 1 in 10 people), which were reported more often in patients 
with COPD than those with asthma. For the full list of side effects of Revinty Ellipta, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Revinty Ellipta authorised in the EU? 
Revinty Ellipta improves breathing and reduces flare ups of symptoms in patients with asthma and 
COPD. Regarding its safety, the most frequent side effects reported with Revinty Ellipta were similar to 
those seen with other COPD and asthma treatments; an increased incidence of pneumonia was 
observed in patients with COPD. 
Revinty Ellipta (fluticasone furoate / vilanterol)  
EMA/120116/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Revinty Ellipta’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Revinty Ellipta? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Revinty Ellipta have also been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Revinty Ellipta are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Revinty Ellipta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Revinty Ellipta 
Revinty Ellipta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 2 May 2014. 
Further information on Revinty Ellipta can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2018. 
Revinty Ellipta (fluticasone furoate / vilanterol)  
EMA/120116/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
