EMA/13846/2020  
EMEA/H/C/000717 
Revlimid (lenalidomide) 
An overview of Revlimid and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Revlimid and what is it used for? 
Revlimid is a medicine used for the treatment of certain cancers and serious conditions affecting blood 
cells and bone marrow, namely multiple myeloma, myelodysplastic syndromes and mantle cell and 
follicular lymphoma. 
In multiple myeloma, a cancer of a type of white blood cells called plasma cells, Revlimid is used: 
• 
• 
• 
in adults who have had a stem cell transplant (a procedure where the patient’s bone marrow is 
cleared of cells and replaced by stem cells from a donor); 
in adults with previously untreated (newly diagnosed) multiple myeloma, who cannot have stem 
cell transplantation. It is used in combination with dexamethasone, or bortezomib and 
dexamethasone, or melphalan and prednisone; 
in adults whose disease has been treated at least once. It is used in combination with 
dexamethasone. 
In myelodysplastic syndromes, a group of bone marrow disorders that cause anaemia (low red 
blood cell counts), Revlimid is used in patients who need blood transfusions to manage their anaemia. 
It is used in patients with a genetic abnormality (called deletion 5q) when other treatments are not 
adequate. 
In mantle cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma, blood cancers that affect a type of white blood 
cell called B lymphocytes, Revlimid is used in adults whose disease has come back after treatment or 
does not improve with treatment. In follicular lymphoma it is used with the medicine rituximab. 
Revlimid contains the active substance lenalidomide.  
How is Revlimid used? 
Revlimid can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by doctors who 
have experience in the use of cancer medicines. It is available as capsules (2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15, 20 and 
25 mg) to be taken by mouth. 
Treatment is given in cycles, with Revlimid being used once a day on certain days of the cycles. 
Treatment cycles are continued until the disease is no longer being controlled or side effects become 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
unacceptable. The dose of Revlimid depends on the disease it is being used for, the patient’s overall 
health and blood test results. The dose may need to be reduced or treatment interrupted in case of 
certain side effects. 
For more information about using Revlimid, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Revlimid work? 
The active substance in Revlimid, lenalidomide, is an immunomodulator. This means that it affects the 
activity of the immune system (the body’s natural defences). Lenalidomide works in several ways: it 
blocks the development of abnormal cells, prevents the growth of blood vessels within tumours and 
also stimulates specialised cells of the immune system to attack the abnormal cells. 
What benefits of Revlimid have been shown in studies? 
Multiple myeloma 
Revlimid was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies in 1,074 patients 
with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and who had had stem cell transplantation. In the first study, 
patients taking Revlimid lived longer on average without their disease getting worse (57 months) than 
patients in the placebo group (29 months). In the second study, patients taking Revlimid also lived 
longer without their disease getting worse (44 months) than patients in the placebo group (24 
months).  
In newly diagnosed multiple myeloma, Revlimid has been studied in two main studies involving 2,082 
patients. The first study compared Revlimid with placebo, both taken with melphalan and prednisone. 
In this study, patients taking Revlimid (plus melphalan and prednisone) lived longer without their 
disease getting worse (27 months) than patients receiving placebo (13 months). In the second study, 
Revlimid taken with low-dose dexamethasone was compared with standard treatment of melphalan, 
prednisone and thalidomide. It took 26 months for the disease to get worse in patients taking Revlimid 
plus dexamethasone, compared with 22 months for those on standard treatment. 
Another main study involved 523 patients with multiple myeloma who had not been treated previously 
and for whom stem cell transplantation had not been planned. Patients treated with Revlimid and 
dexamethasone lived for around 30 months on average without their disease getting worse compared 
with around 43 months for those who also received bortezomib. 
Revlimid was also studied in two main studies involving 704 patients with previously treated multiple 
myeloma. In both studies, Revlimid was compared with placebo, both taken with dexamethasone. The 
results of the two studies taken together showed that, on average, patients taking Revlimid lived 
longer without their disease getting worse (48 weeks) than patients receiving placebo (20 weeks).  
Myelodysplastic syndromes 
Two main studies have also been carried out involving a total of 353 patients with lower risk 
myelodysplastic syndromes. The first study did not compare Revlimid with any other treatment, while 
the second study compared it with placebo. In the first study, 97 out of 148 patients (66%) taking 
10 mg Revlimid did not need a blood transfusion for at least 8 weeks. In the second study, 38 out of 
69 patients (55%) taking 10 mg Revlimid did not need a blood transfusion for at least 26 weeks, 
compared with 4 out of 67 patients (6%) taking placebo. 
Revlimid (lenalidomide)  
EMA/13846/2020 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
One main study involved 254 patients with mantle cell lymphoma that had come back after previous 
treatment or had not improved on previous treatment. Revlimid was compared with a medicine chosen 
by the patients’ doctors. The average time before the disease got worse was 38 weeks in those treated 
with Revlimid, compared with 23 weeks in those given other treatments. 
Follicular lymphoma 
The main study involved 358 patients with slow-growing blood cancers (marginal zone lymphoma or 
follicular lymphoma) that had come back or not improved after previous treatment: 295 of them had 
follicular lymphoma. The study compared Revlimid with placebo when added to another cancer 
medicine, rituximab. The average length of time that patients lived without follicular lymphoma getting 
worse was around 39 months with Revlimid plus rituximab, compared with 14 months with the placebo 
plus rituximab. 
What are the risks associated with Revlimid? 
The most common side effects with Revlimid when used for the treatment of multiple myeloma are: 
bronchitis (inflammation of the airways in the lungs), nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and 
throat), cough, gastroenteritis (inflammation of the stomach and intestines with diarrhoea and 
vomiting), upper respiratory tract infection (nose and throat infections), tiredness, neutropenia (low 
levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), constipation, diarrhoea, muscle cramps, anaemia, 
thrombocytopenia (low platelet counts), rash, back pain, insomnia (difficulty sleeping), decreased 
appetite, fever, peripheral oedema (swelling  of the limbs due to fluid retention), leucopenia (low white 
blood cell counts), weakness, peripheral neuropathy (nerve damage in the hands and feet) and 
hypocalcaemia (low levels of calcium in the blood). 
The most common side effects with Revlimid when used for the treatment of myelodysplastic 
syndromes are neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, diarrhoea, constipation, nausea (feeling sick), itching, 
rash, tiredness and muscle spasms.  
The most common side effects with Revlimid when used for the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma 
are neutropenia, anaemia, diarrhoea, tiredness, constipation, fever and rash.  
The most common side effects with Revlimid when used to treat follicular lymphoma are 
neutropenia, leucopenia, diarrhoea, constipation, tiredness and cough. 
The most serious side effects with Revlimid are: neutropenia, venous thromboembolism (blood clots in 
the veins) including pulmonary embolism (blood clots in the lungs), lung infections including 
pneumonia, hypotension (low blood pressure), dehydration, kidney failure, febrile neutropenia 
(neutropenia with fever), diarrhoea and anaemia.  
Lenalidomide can be harmful to the unborn child. Therefore, Revlimid must not be used in women who 
are pregnant. It must also not be used in women who could become pregnant, unless they take all the 
necessary steps to ensure that they are not pregnant before treatment and that they do not become 
pregnant during or soon after treatment.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Revlimid, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Revlimid authorised in the EU? 
Revlimid prolongs the time patients live without their cancer getting worse and reduces the need for 
blood transfusions in myelodysplastic syndromes. Side effects are considered manageable. Therefore, 
Revlimid (lenalidomide)  
EMA/13846/2020 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
the European Medicines Agency decided that Revlimid’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Revlimid? 
The company that makes Revlimid will provide a letter and educational kits for healthcare 
professionals, and brochures for patients, explaining that the medicine can be harmful to the unborn 
child and detailing the steps that need to be taken for the medicine to be used safely. It will also 
supply cards to patients about the safety measures patients should take.  
The company has also set up a pregnancy prevention programme in each member state and will collect 
information on the medicine’s use outside its approved uses. The boxes containing Revlimid capsules 
also include a warning stating that lenalidomide can be harmful to the unborn child. 
In addition, the company will carry out a study in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes to gather 
further safety data, as well as a safety study in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma not 
eligible for transplantation. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Revlimid have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Revlimid are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Revlimid are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Revlimid 
Revlimid received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 June 2007.  
Further information on Revlimid can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/revlimid.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2019. 
Revlimid (lenalidomide)  
EMA/13846/2020 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
