6 February 2020 
EMADOC-2005359794-225433 
EMA/OD/0000005466  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Revlimid (lenalidomide) 
Treatment of follicular lymphoma 
EU/3/12/1097 
Sponsor: Celgene Europe B.V.  
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation..................................................................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. List of issues ......................................................................................... 10 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Lenalidomide 
Lenalidomide 
Initial orphan condition 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
Sponsor’s details: 
Treatment of follicular lymphoma 
Hard capsule    
Oral use 
L04AX04 
Celgene Europe B.V.  
Winthontlaan 6n 
Utrecht 
3526 KV 
Netherlands 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/sponsor 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Celgene Europe Limited 
6 December 2012 
24 January 2013 
EU/3/12/1097 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Celgene Europe Limited to Celgene 
Europe B.V. – EC decision of 25 July 2018 
Type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Sponsor 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
A. Moreau, F. Josephson 
Celgene Europe B.V. 
21 January 2019 
1 March 2019 
EMA/H/C/000717/II/0107 
Revlimid 
Revlimid® in combination with rituximab (an anti-CD20 
antibody) is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with previously treated follicular lymphoma 
(Grade 1-3a). 
Further information on Revlimid can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPA
R/Revlimid 
CHMP opinion date 
14 November 2019 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
F. Naumann-Winter / K. Penttilä 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
1 March 2019 
COMP discussion, adoption of list of 
8, 18 November 2019 
questions  
Oral explanation 
Sponsor’s removal request  
4 December 2019  
5 December 2019 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The sponsor Celgene Europe Limited – UK, submitted on 18 October 2012 an application for 
designation as an orphan medicinal product to the European Medicines Agency for lenalidomide for 
treatment of follicular lymphoma. 
Whereas, the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP), having examined the application, 
concluded: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
follicular lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 2.2. in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time the application was 
made. The prevalence was estimated based on relevant international literature and cancer 
registries; 
the intention to treat the condition with the proposed product was supported by preclinical studies 
showing reduction of tumour size when the product was used in monotherapy or in combination 
with rituximab, and clinical studies showing favourable response in refractory and relapsing 
follicular lymphoma; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to frequent relapses and increasing 
resistance to treatment. Organ obstruction, organ dysfunction and pain may occur depending on 
the location of the tumour;  
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, sufficient justification has been provided that lenalidomide may be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. This appears justified by the clinical data presented by the 
sponsor, showing favourable response rates in relapsing and refractory follicular lymphoma, 
particularly when the product is used in combination with rituximab. This represents a preliminary 
evidence of potential improved clinical efficacy when the product is used in combination with 
currently authorized products.  
The COMP recommends the designation of this medicinal product, containing lenalidomide, as an 
orphan medicinal product for the orphan indication: treatment of follicular lymphoma. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Follicular lymphoma (FL) is an indolent B cell lymphoproliferative disorder of transformed follicular 
center B cells consisting of a mixture of centrocytes (small to medium-sized cells) and centroblasts 
(large cells), mixed with nonmalignant cells such as T cells, follicular dendritic cells and macrophages. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Almost all FLs carry breaks at 18q21, with > 85% of them having a translocation involving 
chromosomes 14 and 18 (t[14;18][q32;q21]).  The t(14;18) translocation ultimately results in the 
juxtaposition of the apoptosis regulating gene B-cell lymphoma (BCL) 2 on chromosome 18 with the 
IGH transcriptional enhancer of immunoglobulin heavy-chain locus on chromosome 14.  This leads to 
the constitutive overexpression of BCL-2, which blocks apoptosis and gives the cells a survival 
advantage.   
The aetiology of follicular lymphoma is still poorly understood. It has been suggested that age, gender 
and ethnicity may affect a person’s likelihood of developing follicular lymphoma. The incidence 
increases with age; although in principle follicular lymphoma may occur at any age, it is extremely rare 
in children.  
Follicular lymphoma involves lymph nodes, but also spleen, bone marrow, peripheral blood and 
Waldeyer ring. Involvement of non-haematopoietic extranodal sites, such as the gastrointestinal tract 
or soft tissue may occur in a setting of widespread nodal disease. Follicular lymphoma may 
occasionally be primary in extranodal sites, including skin, gastrointestinal tract, particularly the 
duodenum, ocular adnexa, breast and testis.  
Most patients have widespread disease at diagnosis, including peripheral and central (abdominal and 
thoracic) lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly. The bone marrow is involved in 40-70% of cases. As an 
intrinsic disease characteristic, FL typically evolves over time to an aggressive subtype, in 45% of 
cases.  Disease relapse is usually rapid, where remissions become a serious challenge despite multiple 
interventions.  Eventually, patients succumb to the refractory, high-grade disease transformation and 
the complications driven by treatments. 
The approved therapeutic indication “Revlimid in combination with rituximab (anti-CD20 antibody) is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously treated follicular lymphoma (Grade 1 – 
3a)” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “follicular lymphoma”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP, 
based on the findings of the AUGMENT study of combination therapy of lenalidomide plus rituximab 
(R2), supported by the results of the MAGNIFY study. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
No changes have occurred in the chronically debilitating and life-threatening nature of the condition 
since the designation of lenalidomide. Follicular lymphoma remains life-threatening and chronically 
debilitating, mainly due to lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, bone marrow dysfunction and the 
potential of transformation into aggressive lymphoma; 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor claimed that no significant changes have occurred in the prevalence of the condition since 
the time of designation.  
In their calculations the sponsor refers to outdated registry information (GLOBOCAN 2013 in spite of 
current ECIS data being available) and does not provide clear information about the current duration of 
the condition (data in papers referenced dates from 2004 or 2008 at the latest).  FL is known to be the 
most common form of indolent lymphoma, and incidence and prevalence data of non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma (NHL) are available. Therefore, incidence of FL needs to be estimated on indirect methods, 
which requires knowledge on the current proportion of FL within NHL and knowledge of the duration of 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the condition. In view of the uncertainties from different sources, the sponsor should provide 
sensitivity analyses on the proportion of FL in NHL and the contemporary duration of the condition in 
the EU. 
The COMP adopted a question on prevalence (see list of questions).  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
As reported by the sponsor, the clinical course of follicular lymphoma is characterized by recurrences 
requiring multiple lines of treatment until eventually patients run out of treatment options and develop 
fatal disease resistant to any available treatment.  
The most recent (2016) guidelines from the European Society of Medical oncology (ESMO) (Dreyling et 
al., Annals of Oncology 27 (s5)v83-90) can be considered valid, and recommend: 
First-line treatment 
A minority of patients will present with non-bulky stage I/II at diagnosis, since most patients are 
diagnosed when the lymphoma is already at advanced stage. These patients may benefit from 
radiotherapy, and in selected cases, watchful waiting or rituximab monotherapy.  In stage I–II patients 
with large tumour burden, adverse clinical or biological prognostic features or when local radiotherapy 
is not applicable (e.g. lung, liver), systemic therapy as indicated for advanced stages should be applied 
For patients in stage III/IV, who represent the majority of patients with naïve follicular lymphoma, the 
ESMO guidelines recommend start treatment only in the presence of symptoms.  The current standard 
first-line treatment of advanced FL is induction with chemoimmunotherapy (e.g. R-CHEMO) followed 
with 2-year maintenance with rituximab monotherapy (around a 30-month treatment in total).  
Relapsed follicular lymphoma (FL) 
Relapsed FL is the target of this lenalidomide extension. The treatment options in this setting include 
rituximab monotherapy, a R CHEMO regimen that the patient did not receive previously (e.g. R-Benda, 
R-CHOP, R-CVP) with or without rituximab maintenance, idelalisib, bendamustine, bendamustine plus 
obinutuzumab, and ibritumomab tiuxetan. Table 1 below show the currently authorized treatments in 
the EU and their therapeutic indications.  
Table 1.  Medicinal products authorised for the treatment of relapsed FL (I) 
Approved 
Active 
Indication 
Products 
substance 
Approval 
Date 
MabThera  
rituximab 
MabThera monotherapy is indicated for treatment 
08Jun1998 
of patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma 
who are chemoresistant or are in their second or 
subsequent relapse after chemotherapy. 
MabThera maintenance therapy is indicated for the 
treatment of FL patients responding to induction 
therapy.  
25Oct2010 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved 
Active 
Indication 
Products 
substance 
Approval 
Date 
IntronA 
interferon 
Treatment of high tumour burden follicular 
09Mar2000 
alfa-2b 
lymphoma as adjunct to appropriate combination 
induction chemotherapy such as a CHOP-like 
regimen. High tumour burden is defined as having 
at least one of the following: bulky tumour mass 
(> 7 cm), involvement of three or more nodal 
sites (each > 3 cm), systemic symptoms (weight 
loss > 10 %, pyrexia > 38°C for more than 8 
days, or nocturnal sweats), splenomegaly beyond 
the umbilicus, major organ obstruction or 
compression syndrome, orbital or epidural 
involvement, serous effusion, or leukaemia. 
Zevalin  
Y90 
[ 90Y]-radiolabelled Zevalin is indicated for the 
16Jan2004 
ibritumomab 
treatment of adult patients with rituximab 
tiuxetan 
relapsed or refractory CD20+ follicular B-cell non-
Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). 
Levact 
bendamustine 
Indolent NHL as monotherapy in patients who 
have progressed during or within 6 months 
1st MA 
approval in 
following treatment with rituximab or a rituximab 
Germany in 
containing regimen 
2005 
Zydelig  
idelalisib 
Zydelig is indicated as monotherapy for the 
18Sep2014 
treatment of adult patients with follicular 
lymphoma (FL) that is refractory to two prior lines 
of treatment 
Gazyvaro  
obinutuzumab  Gazyvaro in combination with bendamustine 
13Jun2016 
followed by Gazyvaro maintenance is indicated for 
the treatment of patients with follicular lymphoma 
(FL) who did not respond or who progressed 
during or up to 6 months after treatment with 
rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor discussed the significant benefit of lenalidomide versus all products authorized for the 
treatment of relapsed FL. 
Rituximab 
The significant benefit versus rituximab is based on the better efficacy of the combination of rituximab 
and lenalidomide versus rituximab alone in relapsed FL patients. Two phase 3 clinical studies support 
the efficacy in combination: one Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial (AUGMENT Study) and one Phase 3b 
supportive clinical trial (MAGNIFY Study NHL).  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AUGMENT was a Phase 3, double-blind randomized study to compare the efficacy and safety of 
rituximab plus lenalidomide (the combination is defined in the study as R2) versus rituximab plus 
placebo in patients with relapsed/refractory indolent lymphoma. Patients recruited in the study had 
been previously treated with at least one systemic chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or rituximab plus 
chemotherapy and had received at least 2 previous doses of rituximab and were not refractory to 
rituximab. Initially the protocol included also rituximab-naïve patients but during a scientific advice the 
sponsor was invited to limit to 25% the number of rituximab-naïve subjects enrolled in order to limit 
bias in the final analysis.  
The results showed significantly better efficacy of the R2 combination (rituximab and lenalidomide) 
versus rituximab alone, as measured by PFS, the primary endpoint, and supported by the results on 
the secondary endpoints. The sponsor presented stratified analysis by lymphoma type, and table 2 
shows the overall results as well as the results for follicular lymphoma. The safety profile of R2 in 
AUGMENT is consistent with the known safety profile of lenalidomide and rituximab with no new safety 
signals detected. 
Table 2.   
Variables 
Overall AUGMENT Population 
AUGMENT FL population 
Pbo + Rit 
(N = 180) 
Len + Rit 
(N=178) 
Pbo + Rit 
(N =148) 
Len + Rit 
(N=147) 
Primary Endpoints (PFS) 
PFS (median)a 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value 
14.1 months 
0.45 (0.33, 0.61) b 
< 0.0001d 
39.4 months 
13.8 months 
0.40 (0.29, 0.55) c 
< 0.0001e 
39.4 months 
Secondary Endpoints  
ORR  
CR 
53.3% 
18.3% 
77.5% 
33.7% 
55.4% 
19.6% 
80.3% 
34.7% 
Median DoR 
21.7 months 
36.6 months 
15.5 months 
36.6 months 
OS rate at 2 
87.2% 
92.6% 
85.8% 
94.8% 
years 
(95% CI) 
(81.0%, 91.5%) 
(87.3%, 95.7%) 
(78.5%, 90.7%) 
(89.5%, 97.5%) 
OS, number (%) 
26 (14.4) 
16 (9.0) 
24 (16.2) 
11 (7.5) 
of deaths 
Hazard ratio 
 (95% CI) 
0.61  
(0.33, 1.13) b 
0.45 
 (0.22, 0.92) c 
The MAGNIFY study enrolled previously treated FL patients regardless of sensitivity to rituximab. The 
combination of rituximab and lenalidomide (R2) was administered at induction (initial treatment period) 
followed by R2, and then by lenalidomide monotherapy versus rituximab monotherapy (extended 
treatment period). Interim data from the single-arm initial treatment phase are used for the marketing 
authorization and were also described to the purpose of the demonstration of significant benefit.  The 
results showed activity of R2 in the treatment of previously treated FL grades 1-3a based on the 
primary endpoint ORR from the interim analysis of the induction period, as shown in Table 3. 
Table 3.   
Variables 
Overall Population 
FL population 
Len + Rit 
(N=187) 
Len + Rit 
(N = 148) 
Primary Endpoint: Overall Response Rate (Induction Efficacy Evaluable Population)  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Population 
FL population 
Variables 
Len + Rit 
(N=187) 
ORR (CR+CRu+PR), n (%) 
127 (67.9) 
95% CI    
CR (CR+CRu), n (%) 
95% CI    
(60.7, 74.5) 
79 (42.2) 
(35.1, 49.7) 
Len + Rit 
(N = 148) 
104 (70.3) 
(62.2, 77.5) 
62 (41.9) 
(33.8, 50.3) 
Secondary Endpoints (Induction Intent to Treat Population)         
                                                                            N=127                                      N=104 
DoR 
79.1% 
79.5% 
1 year estimated rate and 95% 
(67.4%, 87.0%) 
(65.5%, 88.3%) 
CI 
Secondary Safety Endpoints (Induction Safety Population) 
Adverse Event Category, n (%) 
(N=222) 
Len + Rit 
TEAE, all grades 
TEAE, Grade 3 or 4 
TEAE, Grade 5 
SAEs 
216 (97.3) 
138 (62.2) 
4 (1.8) 
65 (29.3) 
Len + Rit 
(N=177) 
171 (96.6) 
105 (59.3) 
3 (1.7) 
50 (28.2) 
The data from the AUGMENT study support the significant benefit of lenalidomide as the use in 
combination with rituximab showed significantly improved PFS than rituximab alone, and the efficacy is 
also supported by the secondary endpoints, including ORR, duration of response and OS. 
During the CHMP assessment for the purpose of the marketing authorization it was commented that 
rituximab monotherapy is indicated for treatment of patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma who 
are chemo-resistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy; however the 
AUGMENT study participants were mostly Grade 1 and 2 FL (more than 70% of the included 
population). It was also argued that in the relapsed/refractory r/r FL setting, selection of salvage 
treatment usually depends on efficacy of prior regimens. In early relapses (<12–24 months), a non-
cross-resistant scheme should be preferred (e.g. bendamustine after CHOP or vice versa). Other 
options, including fludarabine-based, platinum salts based or alkylating agents-based regimens, could 
also be useful. Rituximab should be proposed to patients if the previous antibody-containing scheme 
achieved >6- to 12-months duration of remission.  
Obinutuzumab (Gazyvaro) 
Obinutuzumab is indicated in combination with bendamustine followed by obinutuzumab maintenance 
for the treatment of patients with follicular lymphoma (FL) who did not respond or who progressed 
during or up to 6 months after treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen. The 
sponsor also argued that obinutuzumab in combination with bendamustine is only appropriate for 
bendamustine-naïve previously treated patients who are still fit for chemotherapy with bendamustine 
and the R2 combination does not have this limitation. 
The sponsor also submitted a descriptive ‘indirect comparison’ between the R2 studies (AUGMENT and 
MAGNIFY) and the GADOLIN study at the base of the marketing authorization of obinutuzumab by 
juxtaposing the results of the studies next to each other. However, the one presented is not a valid 
comparison from a methodological and statistical perspective.  
Bendamustine 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bendamustine is indicated in Indolent NHL as monotherapy in patients who have progressed during or 
within  6  months  following  treatment  with  rituximab  or  a  rituximab  containing  regimen.  The  profile  of 
lenalidomide and the therapeutic indication are different.   
Ibritumomab 
Ibritumomab  is  indicated  as  consolidation  therapy  after  remission  induction  in  previously  untreated 
patients with follicular lymphoma. The benefit of ibritumomab following rituximab in combination with 
chemotherapy has not been established.  [90Y]-radiolabelled ibritumomab is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with rituximab-relapsed or refractory CD20+ follicular B-cell lymphoma. The profile of 
lenalidomide  and  the  therapeutic  indication  are  different  therefore  the  significant  benefit  of 
lenalidomide may be acknowledged.  
Idelalisib 
Idelalisib is indicated as monotherapy in a patient population with double-refractory disease so that the 
significant benefit of lenalidomide used in an earlier line can be acknowledged.    
The  COMP  discussed  that  while  there  are  qualitative  differences  between  therapeutic  indications  as 
authorised, in clinical practice rituximab monotherapy is considered one option and some of the other 
products  may  be  used  as  part  of  the  current  standard  of  care.  A  question  on  significant  benefit  was 
adopted.  
4.  List of issues 
Prevalence 
The sponsor should recalculate the prevalence of the condition taking into account more recent sources 
than those presented in this application, as well as up to date evidence of the proportion of FL among 
all non-Hodgkin lymphoma and of the duration of the disease with the currently available treatments.    
In view of the uncertainties from different sources, the sponsor should provide sensitivity analyses on 
the proportion of FL in NHL and the contemporary duration of the condition in the EU. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor should further justify the significant benefit of the combination of rituximab plus 
lenalidomide in relapsed FL patients versus the currently available treatments for this patient 
population.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
