19 September 2013 
EMA/39018/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Revlimid 
International non-proprietary name: lenalidomide 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000717/PSUV/0069 
Period covered by the PSUR:  27.12.2011 – 26.12.2012 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Revlimid, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
Based on the PRAC review of data on safety and efficacy, the PRAC considers that the risk-benefit balance 
of the medicinal product containing the active substance lenalidomide remains favourable but 
recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied as follows: 
Update of section 4.5 and 4.8 of the SmPC to add the adverse reaction rhabdomyolysis, especially when 
statins are combined with lenalidomide.  
During the assessment of rhabdomyolysis as a safety signal, 23 cases were evaluated, all of which were 
considered to be serious. A concomitant use of statin was reported in 4 cases. For these cases, patients 
recovered after lenalidomide and statins discontinuation. Statins were not re-introduced, lenalidomide 
was re-introduced for 3 cases: positive re-challenge was observed in 2 and negative re-challenge was 
observed in one. The temporal relationship between therapy and rhabdomyolysis suggests that a causal 
relationship is possible (5, 14 and 19 days after lenalidomide initiation and 8 days after lenalidomide dose 
increased for the remaining case).  
For the remaining 19 cases, a fatal outcome was reported in 5 cases, 6 cases were insufficiently 
documented for a clinical assessment. Most of the cases were confounded by concurrent medical 
conditions or concomitant medications. However, due to the temporal association, the positive 
dechallenge observed in 5 cases, the positive re-challenge observed in one case, the increased risk of 
rhabdomyolysis when statins are combined to lenalidomide, the involvement of lenalidomide cannot be 
excluded.  
The Package Leaflet should be updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Revlimid the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance lenalidomide is favourable subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied.  
 
