21 June 2012 
EMA/432817/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Revlimid 
lenalidomide   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000717/X/0046/G 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
1.1. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 5 
1.2. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 8 
1.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
1.4. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 12 
1.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 41 
1.6. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 45 
2.  Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 46 
3.  Recommendations ............................................................................... 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
benefit-risk ratio  
Central Adjudication Committee 
ASCT  Autologous stem cell transplantation 
B/R 
CAC 
CHMP   Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
CI 
Confidence interval 
DMC  Data Monitoring Committee 
DSMC  Data and Safety Monitoring Committee 
European Union 
EU 
Hazard ratio 
HR 
Interim analysis 
IA 
IFM 
Intergroupe francophone du myélome 
IMWG  International myeloma Working Group 
IR 
IRC 
ITT 
IVRS 
Len 
len/D   Lenalidomide +dexamethasone  
MM 
MPB 
MPT 
MPR 
MPR+R Combination of [melphalan, prednisone, lenalidomide] for induction followed by
Multiple myeloma 
Combination of [melphalan, prednisone, bortezomib] 
Combination of [melphalan, prednisone, thalidomide] 
Combination of [melphalan, prednisone, lenalidomide] 
Incidence rate 
Independent review committee  
Intent to treat 
Interactive Voice Response System 
Lenalidomide 
Lenalidomide   for maintenance 
Placebo 
MPR+p Combination of [melphalan, prednisone, lenalidomide] followed by placebo for  maintenance 
MPp+p  Combination of [melphalan, prednisone] followed by placebo for maintenance 
NDMM  Newly diagnosed multiple myeloma 
Pbo 
Pbo/D   Placebo+dexamethasone  
Progressive disease 
PD 
Progression-free survival 
PFS 
Partial response 
PR 
PY 
Patient-year 
RRMM  Relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma 
QoL   Quality of life 
SD 
SPM 
TE 
TNE 
TTP 
VAD 
VD 
VGPR  Very good partial response 
Stable disease 
Second primary malignancies 
transplant-eligible, transplant candidate  
transplant-non eligible  
Time to progression 
Vincristine, doxorubicin and dexamethasone 
bortezomib + dexamethasone 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 3/50
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific discussion 
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell malignancy of the bone marrow that accounts for 
approximately 10% of haematologic cancers. The number of new cases of MM per year in the European 
Union (EU) is approximately 29,000 and it causes nearly 19,000 deaths per year in Europe. Therefore, 
MM has an orphan disease classification. A single clone of plasma cells producing a monoclonal 
immunoglobulin (the monoclonal protein [M-protein]) is the characteristic finding associated with MM. 
The malignant proliferation of the plasma cell clone causes increasing levels of M-protein in the serum 
and urine and may result in bone marrow failure, suppression of uninvolved immunoglobulin levels, 
and skeletal destruction. Interactions between myeloma cells and the bone marrow microenvironment 
play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of MM. 
The adhesion of marrow accessory cells and extracellular matrix proteins to myeloma cells and the 
secretion of cytokines, growth factors, and chemokines by both myeloma cells and marrow stromal 
cells activate signaling pathways that promote the proliferation and survival of the myeloma cell. 
Clinical complications of progressive MM include recurrent infections, cytopenias, renal failure, 
hyperviscosity syndrome, hypercalcaemia, bone pain, and pathologic fractures. Additionally, MM is 
typically a disease of older patients with a median age at diagnosis of 65 to 70 years. Despite 
advances in the treatment of MM that include high-dose chemotherapy supported by stem cell 
transplantation (SCT) and the discovery of active novel agents such as thalidomide, bortezomib and 
lenalidomide, which have improved the overall clinical condition and survival of patients, MM remains 
incurable. Treatment strategies are needed comprising new combinations of active agents to increase 
response rates and improve the quality of responses and so is the use of effective maintenance 
therapy to prolong duration of response. 
Lenalidomide is an immunomodulating agent. Its mechanism of action includes anti-neoplastic, anti-
angiogenic, pro-erythropoietic and immunomodulatory properties. Specifically, lenalidomide inhibits 
proliferation of certain haematopoietic tumour cells (including MM plasma tumour cells and those with 
deletions of chromosome 5), enhances T cell- and Natural Killer (NK) cell-mediated immunity and 
increases the number of NK T cells, inhibits angiogenesis by blocking the migration and adhesion of 
endothelial cells and the formation of microvessels, augments foetal haemoglobin production by 
CD34+ haematopoietic stem cells, and inhibits production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., TNF-α 
and IL-6) by monocytes. 
Revlimid was granted a marketing authorisation in the EU on 14 June 2007 as 5, 10, 15 and 25 mg 
hard capsules, in combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of multiple myeloma patients 
who have received at least one prior therapy. 
In this application, the MAH submitted a group of 2 new strengths (2.5 and 7.5 mg hard capsules), 
variation to add new pack sizes and a variation for a new indication of Revlimid for the maintenance 
treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients who have not progressed following initial 
treatment with melphalan, prednisone and Revlimid or following autologous stem cell transplantation. 
During the evaluation, the MAH proposed for Revlimid to be indicated in newly diagnosed patients with 
multiple myeloma, in combination with melphalan and prednisone as induction therapy followed by 
maintenance Revlimid monotherapy in non-transplant eligible patients ≤ 75 years of age. 
Further to the assessment of the CHMP and their conclusions as detailed in this report, the MAH 
decided to withdraw the variations in the group for the new indication in newly diagnosed MM patients. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 4/50
 
 
 
 
 
1.1.  Quality aspects 
1.1.1.  Introduction 
This application concerns a grouped submission of a line extension to add the following strengths: 2.5 
mg and 7.5 mg as packs of 21 capsules. 
1.1.2.  Active Substance 
No information is presented for the drug substance.  This information can be found in the EPAR of 
Revlimid published on the EMA website. 
1.1.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Compared to the currently authorised capsules, the MAH has applied with this line extension for 
additional strengths 2.5 mg and 7.5 mg.  
The capsules contain the following standard Ph.Eur. excipients: lactose anhydrous (diluent), 
microcrystalline cellulose (diluent), croscarmellose sodium (disintegrant) and magnesium stearate 
(lubricant). 
The components of the capsule shells (titanium dioxide, FD & C blue, yellow iron oxide, gelatine and 
ink) comply with their Ph. Eur. monographs or European Commission Directive 95/45/EC of July 25, 
1995 and amendments thereafter. Information pertaining to the components and source of gelatine in 
the capsule shells was provided. 
Revlimid Capsules are provided in a PVC/PCTFE blister with push through foil. The components of the 
packaging (PVC/ACLAR/alu blisters) are the same as those used for the previous strengths. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  impact  of  particle  size  and  polymorphism  were  studied  during  the  pharmaceutical  development. 
Lenalidomide  was  micronized  to  ensure  a  defined  distribution  of  particle  sizes  that  assures  blend  and 
content  uniformity.  Based  on  the  interconversion  studies,  lenalidomide  active  substance  was  not 
expected to  convert to any other polymorphic form during drug product manufacture or storage.  The 
capsules (all strengths) were produced using a single polymorph form of lenalidomide although it was 
demonstrated that using a mixture of polymorph had no impact on the dissolution profile. 
The same excipients were used as for the approved formulations. 
The 2.5 mg capsules were developed using a size 4 capsule and are dose proportional to the approved 
5 mg and 10 mg capsules. The 7.5 mg capsules were developed using a size 2 capsule and are dose 
proportional to the 15 mg capsules. 
Bioequivalence  study:  Information  was  provided  in  the  Clinical  summary.  Dissolution  data  was 
provided for batches 434727 (2.5 mg capsule), 0077A (5 mg capsule) and 000451 (7.5 mg capsule) as 
well  as  dissolution  data  for  10  mg,  15  mg  and  25  mg  capsules  in  0.01N  HCL  where  all  capsules  are 
dissolved  within  15  minutes.  The  7.5-mg  lenalidomide  capsule  uses  the  same  formulation  as  the 
currently  approved  15-mg  capsules  and  their  in  vitro  dissolution  profiles  are  similar.  The  15-mg 
lenalidomide capsule has been demonstrated to be bioequivalent to the 5-mg lenalidomide capsules in 
humans. Therefore, a bioequivalence study is not required for the 7.5 mg capsule. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 5/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
No overage was included in the formulation for lenalidomide capsules (all strengths). 
The  manufacturing  process  was  based  on  typical  manufacturing  procedures  for  capsule  formulations 
and the available equipment at the manufacturing sites. The manufacturing process was optimized as 
necessary  for  the  specific  equipment  available  at  each  site.  Information  regarding  batch  sizes  and 
validation  history  for  the  approved  dosage  forms  was  presented.  No  information  was  provided 
regarding  the  actual  manufacturing  process  development.  This  was  however  accepted  since  the  new 
dosage forms only relates to the amount of powder mix filled in each capsule. 
Adventitious agents 
For  gelatine,  satisfactory  certificate  of  suitability  from  the  suppliers  were  presented.    Magnesium 
stearate  is  vegetable  derived.  Lactose  is  sourced  from  healthy  animals  under  the  same  conditions  as 
milk collected for human consumption (EMEA 410/01 rev 2). In summary, no risk of TSE is anticipated.  
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacture of the 2.5 mg and 7.5 mg capsule strengths is a simple process: weighing of 
ingredients, blending and filling the capsules. The appropriate size capsule is filled to the specified 
weight for either a 2.5 mg or 7.5 mg dosage. The filled capsules are packed into PVC/ACLAR-blister 
with push through foil. It is stated that no reprocessing or reworking processes are applied in the 
manufacture of Lenalidomide Capsules. 
Appropriate in-process controls were applied throughout the manufacturing process.  
Process validation for the 2.5 mg is provided for both sites. A commitment to validate for the 7.5 mg 
prior to launch has also been provided. Validation protocols have been provided and the commitment 
has been accepted.  
The excipients of the capsule fills are all tested in accordance with the specifications and test methods 
described in the Ph. Eur.  
Regarding the capsule shells, adequate manufacturer’s specification includes testing for appearance, 
colour, loss on drying, disintegration time, identity of gelatine, microbiological tests as per Ph Eur. and 
physical dimensions. The components of the printing inks are in compliance with Ph Eur. or USP/NF. In 
addition, the hard capsule colorants comply with the relevant EC Directives on colorants in foodstuffs. 
Adequate information for the analytical methods has been presented.  
Product specification 
The specifications for Revlimid capsules of all strengths were provided. The specifications for the 
approved strengths have not been evaluated since no changes compared to the approved specification 
were introduced. 
The proposed specifications at release/end of shelf life for the new strengths 2.5 mg and 7.5 mg 
capsules include appearance, identification (HPLC and UV), assay of the active substance (HPLC), 
related substances (HPLC), dissolution (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (Ph Eur. 2.9.40) and 
microbial contamination (Ph Eur. 5.1.4 category 3A). The specifications were correctly justified. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 6/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-compendial analytical methods have been described and validated in accordance with ICH 
guidelines if necessary.  
Batch analyses data for three production scale of the 2.5 mg strength and three pilot batches of the 
7.5 mg strength confirm the consistency of the manufacturing process. All the results comply with the 
retained specifications. 
Container closure system: Revlimid capsules 2.5 mg and 7.5 mg, are packaged in blisters (PVC/ACLAR) 
with  push-through  aluminium  foil.  The  packaging  materials  have  been  adequately  characterised  and 
comply  with  Ph  Eur.  3.1.11.  The  components  of  the  packaging  are  the  same  as  those  used  for  the 
previous strengths. It has been demonstrated to be suitable as Revlimid has been shown to be stable 
over a period of 3 years.  
The specifications proposed for Revlimid capsules are generally suitable. Analytical methods and their 
improvements during development were well described. 
Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  were  conducted  on  2  pilot  batches  and  1  commercial  batch  for  the  2.5  mg  strength, 
and  2  pilot  batches  for  the  7.5  mg  strength.  These  studies  were  carried  out  under  the  conditions 
described  in the  ICH  guidelines:  25°C/60  RH %  (24  months  data),    30°C/65  RH %  (3  months  data),  
40°C/75 RH % (6 months data).   
The  batches  were  tested  for  appearance,  assay,  related  impurities  and  dissolution  with  the  analytical 
procedures presented in section 3.2.P.5. 
Photostability  studies  were  performed  for  the  originally  approved  5  mg  strengths  with  no  significant 
change in degradation product level. 
Minor  cosmetic  orange  brown  spots  were  observed  at  intermediate  and  accelerated  conditions  but  no 
trends  were  seen  at  long  term  conditions.  No  other  trends  were  observed  except  for  an  increase  in 
impurities. All results are within the proposed specifications.  
Stability  data  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  defined  in  the  Summary  of 
Product Characteristics (SPC). 
1.1.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Quality Development 
Overall, satisfactory quality documentation has been provided.  
There  was  no  new  information  provided  for  the  active  substance  and  this  was  accepted.  The 
information can be found in the published EPAR. 
Regarding  the  finished  medicinal  product,  the  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  process.  It  is 
adequately described and controlled. It should ensure a consistent quality for the medicinal product. 
Appropriate  specifications  have  been  selected  for  these  new  strengths  2.5  mg  and  7.5  mg  hard-
capsules.  Stability  studies  under  ICH  conditions  have  demonstrated  the  good  stability  of  the  new 
strengths.  Stability  data  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  defined  in  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC).  
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 7/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
In summary, the results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory and uniformity of important product 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance in the clinic. 
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  were  some  outstanding  quality  issues  with  no  impact  on  the 
benefit/risk.  The  applicant  undertook  to  provide  with  the  necessary  information  as  a  follow-up 
recommendation  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the  evaluation  of  this  additional 
information. 
1.1.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of those new strengths 2.5 mg and 7.5 mg Revlimid capsules is considered acceptable 
when used with the conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to 
the uniform clinical performance have been investigated and are controlled satisfactorily. 
1.1.6.  Recommendation for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
 
It is noted that the process will be validated at this scale prior to launch (100 000 capsules, 7.5 
mg). 
1.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
The application did not include any new nonclinical data as the nonclinical information which was 
submitted in the initial marketing authorisation was considered applicable to the proposed new 
indication.  
An updated environmental risk assessment is submitted to cover all multiple myeloma indications, i.e. 
NDMM and second-line MM. 
Revlimid was proposed to be indicated in the treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) 
patients, in addition to the currently approved indication in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) 
patients who have received as least one prior therapy. Consequently, the phase I PECSURFACEWATER 
calculation was updated by the MAH.  
Table 1.  Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): Lenalidomide (REVLIMID) 
CAS-number (if available): 191732-72-6 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
Kow 
Report no. APN 
148 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Result 
- 0.34 
Conclusion 
Potential PBT: no 
Page 8/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC surfacewater , default or 
refined (e.g. prevalence, 
literature) 
Value 
0.0047 
Unit 
g/L 
Conclusion 
< 0.01 threshold 
1.2.1.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
At the time of initial MA, the Kow of lenalidomide was determined experimentally and was found to be 
low (0.46; log Kow = -0.34). Thus lenalidomide was considered to have negligible potential for 
bioaccumulation.  
The phase I PECSURFACEWATER calculation covering all MM indications, i.e. proposed and current indication 
remained below the action limit (0.01 µg/L).  
1.2.2.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The application did not contain any new non-clinical data as it is considered that the nonclinical 
information which was submitted in the initial MA application in refractory/relapsed MM is applicable to 
the new indication. This was considered acceptable notably because the dosing regimen proposed in 
the treatment of NDMM patients was the same as that used in the currently approved second-line 
indication (28-day cycles with recommended maximal starting dose of 25 mg/day given from day 1 to 
day 21 of each cycle). Thus, an increase in the systemic exposure to lenalidomide was not expected. 
An update of the SPC 5.3 was not deemed necessary. 
The environmental risk assessment was updated. The predicted surface water concentration for 
lenalidomide indicated that its use in the proposed indication and in the currently approved indication 
should pose a negligible risk to the environment. Should any lenalidomide reach the environment 
through disposal of unused product, the environmental risk is likely to be minimal owing to the drug’s 
low inherent toxicity and absence of bioaccumulation potential. Finally, with the withdrawal of the 
variation application for the new indication, the use of the product is not expected to change. As with 
all unused medications, appropriate disposal procedures should be employed. 
1.3.  Clinical aspects 
1.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 9/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Identifier 
CC-5013- 
MM-015 
Number 
of 
Study 
Centers 
Location 
82 sites 
EU (70) 
Australia 
(8) 
Israel (4) 
Study 
Start, 
Enrollment 
Status, 
Enrollment 
Total 
01 Feb 
2007 
Enrollment 
Complete 
459 
patients 
IFM  
2005-02 
78 sites 
12 jun 2006 
France (59) 
Belgium 
(10) 
Switzerland 
(9) 
Enrollment 
Complete 
614 
patients 
CALGB 
100104 
Data not 
avaible 
15 Apr 
2005 
Enrollment 
Complete 
460 
patients 
Test Product 
No 
Patients/arm 
Dosage 
Regimen 
Route of 
Administration 
MPR+Ra 
N=152 
MPR+pa 
N=153 
MPp+pa 
N=154 
Oral 
administration 
lenb 
N=307 
pbob 
N=307 
Oral 
administration 
Lenc 
N=231 
pboc 
N=229 
Oral 
administration 
Study 
Design, 
Type of 
Control 
Phase 3 
multicenter 
randomised 
double-
blind 
3-arm 
parallel- 
group, 
placebo- 
controlled 
study 
Phase 3 
multicenter 
randomised 
double-
blind 
2-arm 
parallel- 
group, 
Placebo- 
controlled 
study 
Phase 3 
multicenter 
randomised 
double-
blind 
2-arm 
parallel- 
group, 
placebo- 
controlled 
study 
Study 
Objective 
To 
determine 
the efficacy 
of MPR 
compared 
with placebo 
plus MP in 
patients 
with NDMM 
who are ≥ 
65years 
To 
determine 
the efficacy 
of 
lenalidomide 
maintenance 
following 
ASCT in 
extending 
post-
transplanta-
tion PFS 
To 
determine 
the efficacy 
of 
lenalidomide 
maintenance  
in 
prolonging 
TTPd 
following 
single ASCT 
Duration of 
treatment 
Until PD 
occurred 
patient 
permanently 
discontinued 
R/p 
treatment,  
or up to the 
time that all 
patients 
have been 
followed for 
at least 5 
years from 
randomisa- 
tion or have 
died 
Until PD 
occurred 
death,  
or patient 
withdrew for 
another 
reason 
Diagnosis 
Inclusion 
Criteria 
Age≥65years 
Symptomatic 
NDMM as 
defined in 
protocol; 
Karnofsky 
performance 
status≥60 % 
Primary 
Endpoints 
PFS 
Safety (AEs, 
clinical 
laboratory 
assessments 
vital signs, 
physical 
exams and 
ECGs) 
Gender 
M/F 
Median 
Age 
(Range) 
MPR+R 
71/81 
71 years 
(65-87) 
MPR+p 
82/71 
71 years 
(65-86) 
MPp+p 
75/79 
72 years 
(65-91) 
len 
169/138 
57 years 
(22-67) 
Pbo 
181/126 
57 years 
(32-66) 
Age 18 to 
65 years ; 
symptomatic 
NDMM as 
defined in 
protocol; 
within  
6 months  
post-ASCT 
PFS 
Safety (AEs, 
clinical 
laboratory 
assessments 
vital signs, 
physical 
exams and 
ECGs) 
Until PD 
occurred, 
death,  
or patient 
withdrew for 
another 
reason 
len 
121/110 
58 years 
(29-71) 
Pbo 
129/100 
58 years 
(39-71) 
Age<70years 
100-110 
days 
After single 
ASCT; ≤1 
year 
from 
diagnosis; 
Stage I-III 
disease 
TTPd 
Safety (AEs, 
clinical 
laboratory 
assessments 
vital signs, 
physical 
exams and 
ECGs) 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 10/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Lenalidomide pharmacokinetics has already been assessed at the time of initial MA and subsequent PK 
follow up measures.  
Results of study CC-5013-BE-002 have been submitted previously. They demonstrated the 
bioequivalence from one lenalidomide 15 mg capsule (test) relative to that from three lenalidomide 
5 mg capsules (reference). Results of study CC-5013-BE-004 have demonstrated the bioequivalence 
from one lenalidomide 25 mg capsule (test) relative to that from five lenalidomide 5 mg capsules 
(reference). 
In this application, results of study CC-5013-CP-010 were submitted to support the new dosage 
strengths of 2.5 mg and 7.5 mg.  
The bioequivalence study CC-5013-CP-010 included 27 healthy volunteers, males of 18 to 55 years, 
non smokers. Twenty six completed the study. A unique dose of 10 mg of lenalidomide was 
administered at two periods (randomised cross-over study): 4 capsules of 2,5 mg (Test) vs. 2 capsules 
of 5 mg (Reference). 
Plasma concentrations of lenalidomide were determined by liquid chromatography coupled with mass 
spectrometry (LC-MS-MS). AUC values were determined by non compartmental PK analysis. 
The statistical analysis (ANOVA) was performed after log transformation for Cmax, AUCt (AUC from 
time 0 to last available concentration: i.e., 24 hrs after dosing) and AUC∞ (AUC extrapolated to 
infinity). The parameter tmax was compared by a non-parametric method. 
For the Test/Reference ratio, the 90% confidence intervals of Cmax, AUCt, and AUC∞ were [92.70 – 
111.87], [98.46 – 104.93] and [97.85 – 103.84] respectively. These IC fell within the generally 
accepted bioequivalence limits of 80% to 125%. 
For median difference (Test – Reference), 90% confidence interval for tmax was 0 – 0.25 hours 
(median values for Test and Reference of 0.875 and 0.750 hours, respectively). 
The bioequivalence between 2.5 mg capsule and 5 mg capsule has formally been demonstrated. 
1.3.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new clinical pharmacology studies have been conducted specifically for the NDMM application. 
1.3.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Bioequivalence has already been demonstrated between different formulations at the time of the initial 
MA. 
The 7.5 mg capsule uses the same formulation blend and is dose proportional in its active and inactive 
ingredients to the approved 15 mg capsule. The in vitro dissolution profile of the 7.5 mg capsule is 
similar to that of the 15 mg capsule. The 15 mg lenalidomide capsule has been demonstrated to be 
bioequivalent to the 5 mg lenalidomide capsules in humans. Therefore, a bioequivalence study is not 
required for the 7.5-mg capsule. 
The 2.5 mg capsule uses the same formulation blend and is dose proportional in its active and inactive 
ingredients to the approved 5 and 10 mg capsules. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 11/50
 
 
 
 
This justifies that bioequivalence has only been investigated between 2.5 mg capsule and 5 mg 
capsule. Results of study CC-5013-CP-010 submitted in this application demonstrated the 
bioequivalence between 2.5 mg capsule and 5 mg capsule. 
Furthermore, the 7.5 mg strength could support dose adjustment (7.5 mg daily dose replacing the 
currently approved starting dose regimen of 15 mg every other day) for patients with severe renal 
impairment receiving lenalidomide in the current indication: this is subject to submission of supportive 
data through a variation further to the approval of the 2.5 and 7.5mg strengths. 
1.3.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
CC-5013-CP-010 results have demonstrated the bioequivalence between 2.5 mg capsule and 5 mg 
capsule. This supports the new dosage strengths of 2.5 mg and 7.5 mg.  
1.4.  Clinical efficacy  
As indicated in the above table, this application was supported by 5 studies. 
The results of the 2 main studies, Study CC-5013-MM-015 and Study IFM 2005-02, and the supportive 
study, CALGB 100104, provided data in support of lenalidomide maintenance treatment in 2 different 
NDMM populations (transplantation-ineligible [TNE] and eligible [TE]) that received 2 different first-line 
induction treatments (MPR and HDC supported by ASCT).  
The main study CC-5013-MM-015, also provided data for the use of lenalidomide in induction 
combination with MP in the first-line treatment of TNE NDMM patients, while the 2 supportive studies, 
SWOG S0232 and ECOG E4A03, provide additional data for lenalidomide to reduce tumour mass in 
another combination, i.e., with dexamethasone in the first-line treatment of a mixed population of TNE 
and TE NDMM patients. 
1.4.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
No dose-response studies were submitted in this application. 
For dose reduction in newly diagnosed MM patients who receive the lenalidomide therapy in 
combination with melphalan and prednisone followed by a lenalidomide maintenance therapy, the MAH 
proposed that the 7.5 mg daily dose and the 2.5 mg daily dose continue to be included as the step-
down dose reductions. The currently proposed 2.5 mg or 7.5 mg dosing regimens will result in 
comparable daily AUC with less daily fluctuation in the drug concentration and it will also support 
improved patient compliance in terms of allowing for daily dosing where appropriate. There is no 
justification for the step-down dose reductions in these patients. The argument of improving patient 
compliance with daily dosing could be a justification but the absence of pharmacodynamic difference 
has not been demonstrated. 
1.4.2.  Main studies  
Study MM-015 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 12/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
This is an ongoing, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-arm parallel-group 
study that investigates the use of standard-dose melphalan/prednisone (MP) plus lenalidomide (R; 10 
mg daily dose) in patients with newly diagnosed MM who are 65 years of age or older. 
Study Participants  
Patients were recruited at 82 sites (70 in Europe; 8 in Australia; and 4 in Israel). 
Main inclusion criteria were: 
Age >= 65 years 
Newly diagnosed with symptomatic MM defined by the 3 criteria: monoclonal plasma cells in 
- 
- 
the bone marrow ≥ 10% and/or presence of a biopsy-proven plasmacytoma, monoclonal protein 
present in the serum and/or urine, and myeloma-related organ dysfunction and have measurable 
disease  
- 
- 
test prior to start of study therapy. She must agree to ongoing pregnancy testing during the course of 
the study, and after end of study therapy. Male patients must agree to use a condom during sexual 
contact with a WCBP, to not donate semen during study drug therapy and for a period after 
Karnofsky performance status ≥ 60% 
Women of childbearing potential (WCBP) must have a negative medically supervised pregnancy 
Main exclusion criteria were: 
Previous treatment with antimyeloma therapy 
Any serious medical condition, including the presence of laboratory abnormalities, which places 
- 
- 
the patient at an unacceptable risk 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
the disease for ≥ 3 years, exceptions include the followings: 
Pregnant or lactating females 
Radiotherapy within 14 days of randomisation 
Plasmapheresis within 28 days (4 weeks) of randomisation 
Laboratory abnormalities 
Prior history of malignancies, other than multiple myeloma, unless the subject has been free of 
 
 
 
 
 
Basal cell carcinoma of the skin 
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin 
Carcinoma in situ of the cervix 
Carcinoma in situ of the breast 
Incidental histologic finding of prostate cancer (TNM stage of T1a or T1b) 
- 
- 
Neuropathy of ≥ grade 2 severity 
Known HIV positivity or active infectious hepatitis, type A, B or C. 
Treatments 
This study consisted of 3 phases for each study patient: a double-blind treatment phase, an open-label 
extension phase, and a follow-up phase.   
The overall study design and dosing regimens are presented in the figure below. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 13/50
 
 
 
 
 
  
Objectives 
The primary hypothesis was that the addition of lenalidomide to standard MP induction therapy 
followed by maintenance therapy with lenalidomide improves PFS in patients with newly diagnosed MM 
aged 65 years or older. So the primary objective was to determine the efficacy of MPR compared with 
placebo plus MP in patients with NDMM who are 65 years of age or older. The secondary objective was 
to assess the safety of MPR compared with placebo plus MP in this population. 
Upon CHMP advice, in order to investigate the risk benefit profile of lenalidomide in both the induction 
and maintenance therapy periods, the study design was amended to include a third arm containing 
lenalidomide in the induction combination therapy period only followed by placebo in maintenance. 
Arm MPR+p was added to the study design of the protocol prior to its finalization. 
For that reason, response rates with MPR+p are expected to be higher than those obtained with 
MPp+p, to justify the interest of lenalidomide use during induction. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary protocol-planned efficacy endpoint was PFS. 
The secondary protocol-planned efficacy endpoints were OS, time to progression (sensitivity analysis 
for PFS), myeloma response rate, time to response, duration of response, time to next anti-myeloma 
therapy, and quality of life. 
Investigation of cytogenetic abnormalities was an exploratory endpoint. 
Safety criteria for evaluation were adverse events, clinical laboratory assessments, vital sign 
measurements, and electrocardiograms (ECGs). 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 14/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
Two pre-planned interim analyses were conducted, when approximately 50% and approximately 70% 
of the total events required for full statistical power for the primary endpoint, PFS, had occurred (148 
PFS events and 207 PFS events across all 3 arms, respectively). 
The primary analysis for the study was to compare PFS between Arms MPR+R and MPp+p. For the 
primary efficacy variable, PFS, a 50% improvement in median time to progression from 15 months in 
Arm MPp+p to 22.5 months in Arm MPR+R was considered clinically relevant and, therefore, the target 
difference. A third arm MPR+p, was added for the secondary analyses in order to investigate the effect 
of lenalidomide maintenance, i.e., comparison of MPR+R with MPR+p and the effect of lenalidomide 
induction, i.e, comparison of MPR+p with MPp+p. This required a total sample size of 450 patients 
(150 in each arm). With the adjunction of the third arm MPR+p, the number of events is approximately 
increased by 1.5.  
Randomisation 
Patients who met all eligibility criteria were randomised (1:1:1) by a double-blind procedure utilising a 
validated interactive voice response system (IVRS) to 1 of 3 treatment arms: 
- 
Induction therapy with MPR (up to 9 cycles) followed by maintenance therapy with single-agent 
lenalidomide (herein referred to as arm MPR+R) 
- 
Induction therapy with MPR (up to 9 cycles) followed by maintenance therapy with placebo 
(herein referred to as arm MPR+p) 
- 
Induction therapy with MP plus placebo (up to 9 cycles) followed by maintenance therapy with 
placebo (herein referred to as arm MPp+p) 
Patients were stratified at randomisation by age (≤ 75 years vs > 75 years) and stage (International 
Staging System [ISS]; stages I and II vs. stage III). 
The start of the double-blind treatment phase (Day 1 of study treatment) was to occur on the same 
day that the subject was randomised. Each patient continued the double-blind treatment phase until: 
1) progressive disease (PD) occurred; or 2) lenalidomide/placebo therapy was discontinued 
permanently for any reason; or 3) all patients were to be followed in this study for at least 5 years 
from randomisrandomisation or had died. 
Blinding (masking) 
The investigator, patient, and Celgene personnel responsible for the conduct of the study were blinded 
as to each patient’s treatment assignments during the patient’s participation in the double-blind 
treatment phase of the study. The blind was broken for patients in the double-blind treatment phase 
who were assessed by the investigator with progressive disease. Melphalan and prednisone were not 
blinded.  
Statistical methods 
The primary efficacy analyses for all endpoints were performed based on the ITT population. 
For the efficacy analysis of all endpoints, the primary comparison was arms MPR+R versus MPp+p. The 
secondary comparisons were arms MPR+R versus MPR+p, and arms MPR+p versus MPp+p and these 
were conditional on the primary comparison. Therefore, alpha was not adjusted for these secondary 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 15/50
 
 
 
 
comparisons. Similarly, analyses of the secondary endpoints (including OS) were conditional on the 
primary comparison of PFS; therefore, alpha was not adjusted for the secondary endpoints. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Of the 459 patients, 152 patients were randomised to the MPR+R treatment arm, 153 to the MPR+p 
arm and 154 to MPp+p arm. As of 11 May 2010 (date of study unblinding), disposition of patients in 
arms MPR+R and MPp+p (primary comparison in the efficacy analyses) is given below. 
As of the 11 may 2010 cut off, 12.5% (19 patients) of patients in Arm MPR+R enrolled in the open-
label extension phase compared with 46.8% (72 patients) in Arm MPp+p. Of these, 9 patients in Arm 
MPR+R and 36 patients in Arm MPp+p remain ongoing. 
Recruitment 
The first patient was randomised on 01 Feb 2007, the last one on 19 Sep 2008. MM-015 study has 
completed accrual but there are still patients in the follow up phase. The study will end when all 
patients have been followed for at least 5 year from randomisation or have died.  
Conduct of the study 
The protocol was amended 3 times. The Amendment #2, dated 27 Jan 2009, added another interim 
analysis at 70% information.  
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 16/50
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Patients in Arm MPp+p tended to have better baseline performance status than those in Arm MPR+R. 
Disease staging of this population was more advanced since median age was 71 years, 80% of patients 
were ISS Stage II or Stage III, with approximately 50% of patients categorised as Stage III. 
Statistics for cytogenetic abnormalities were removed from the demographic tables due to limited 
evaluable cytogenetics data, so the planned exploratory analysis on cytogenetic abnormalities could 
not be performed. 
Numbers analysed 
The MM-015 study dataset which formed the basis of the original submission had a 01 Dec 2009 cut off 
date (second pre-planned interim analysis of 70% information for PFS) with a median follow-up of 21.3 
months.  
The first site was unblinded on 11 May 2010, and the final complete analysis for this study was 
performed at 76% PFS information (data collected up to study unblinding; cut off date: 11 May 2010). 
As of this cut off date, 226 of the 296 events originally targeted in the study plan for the final PFS 
analysis had occurred. 
A more recent data cut off, 03 Oct 2011, is being used for all OS analyses, second line therapy and for 
occurrence of secondary primary malignancies (SPM). Based on this updated data set, the study has 
now reached a median follow-up of 41.0 months for surviving patients. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint: PFS 
Results of MM-015 clinical study report were presented in the application and derived from the 70% 
information interim analysis (second IA), using a data cut off of 01 Dec 2009. PFS was significantly 
longer in arm MPR+R than arm MPp+p. The HR (0.423 (0.294, 0.609), p < 0.001, two-sided 
unstratified Log-rank test) indicated a major decrease in the risk of disease progression for patients 
treated in arm MPR+R compared to those treated with MPp+p. Results were consistent in the 
subsequent update where using a data cut off of 11 May 2010, the HR was 0.395 (0.278, 0.560), p < 
0.001, two-sided unstratified Log-rank test). The censoring rate was higher in the MPR+R arm (the 
ratio progressed or died/censored is 52/100) compared to MPR+p arm (81/72) and MPp+p arm 
(93/61).  
The updated data showed that as lenalidomide was added as third drug to a standard MP regimen, 
treatment tolerance was reduced in patients age > 75 years leading to an increased incidence of grade 
3/4 toxicities in these patients compared with the stratum of patients age ≤ 75 years. This led to: (1) 
a higher frequency of dose reductions, (2) a reduced relative dose intensity for melphalan and 
lenalidomide, and (3) higher frequency of treatment discontinuations compared with the pre-
randomisation stratum of patients age ≤ 75 years. 
The better treatment tolerance observed in patients ≤ 75 years was associated with better treatment 
efficacy: For patients ≤ 75 years (N=232), in the primary comparison of MPR+R versus MPp+p, the 
risk reduction of progression or death amounted to 70% (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.301, 95% confidence 
interval [CI] = 0.199-0.454), a highly statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in 
this patient population. This translated to an improvement 19.1 month in PFS *(median PFS of 31.4 
months for MPR+R vs 12.3 months for MPp+p). 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 17/50
 
 
 
 
With data cut off date of 01 Dec 2009, PFS on ITT population was not statistically different between 
Arms MPR+p and MPp+p (p = 0.306, two-sided unstratified Log-rank test). This seemed to show that 
Revlimid does not provide any benefit in terms of PFS during induction if not followed by maintenance. 
Whereas, on 11 May 2010 cut off date, excluding patients over 75 years, a 38% risk reduction in 
disease progression or death was observed in the PFS analysis of MPR+p versus MPp+p (HR [95% CI] 
= 0.618 [0.436-0.877], p = 0.006, two-sided unstratified Log-rank test). These results point to the 
contribution of Lenalidomide in the induction period. Also, comparing Arm MPR+R and Arm MPR+p 
treatment in patients age ≤ 75 years, a 52% risk reduction of progression or death was achieved by 
adding lenalidomide maintenance (HR [95% CI] = 0.475 [0.315-0.716]). 
Secondary endpoints 
Response rate and duration 
The overall response (comparison of the dichotomized response [CR + PR] vs other, best assessment 
of response during double blind treatment phase of the study) was significantly higher in arm MPR+R 
(77.0% [117/152]) than in arm MPp+p (50.0% [77/154]) (p < 0.001, Fisher’s exact test). 
Statistical difference is also shown favouring lenalidomide for the comparison MPR+p vs MPp+p but no 
statistical difference was shown for the comparison MPR+R vs MPR+p. These findings seem to show 
that, in terms of response rates, induction followed by maintenance offers no interest as compared to 
induction only.   
Among the responders, the median duration of response was significantly longer in patients treated 
with MPR+R compared with those treated with MPp+p. Similarly, the duration of response was 
significantly longer in patients treated with MPR+R compared with those treated with MPR+p. 
However, the duration of response was similar between arm MPR+p (12.9 months) and arm MPp+p 
(12.8 months) (p = 0.503, two-sided unstratified Log-rank test; hazard ratio 0.877; 95% CI: 0.596, 
1.290). This finding shows that induction only offers no interest in terms of duration of response. To 
achieve longer duration of response, induction must be followed by maintenance. This is especially 
worrying as, in the context of occurrence of SPM, these 9 induction cycles may penalize by increasing 
toxicity. 
With adjunction of lenalidomide to MP, the overall response rate during induction is increased in the 
whole population and this increase is mainly driven by patients ≤ 75 years. In this subgroup, 
lenalidomide significantly added to the efficacy of the standard MP induction regimen as evidenced by a 
significant increase in overall response rate (79% and 72% in Arm MPR+R and Arm MPR+p, 
respectively, versus 46% in Arm MPp+p) and a 3-fold increase in the depth/intensity of response (31% 
and 33% of very good partial responses [VGPRs]/complete responses [CRs] in Arm MPR+R and Arm 
MPR+p versus 10% in Arm MPp+p).  
Overall survival 
No statistical differences were observed in overall survival in the comparisons of the 3 treatment arms. 
As of a 01 Dec 2009 data cut off date (2nd interim analysis), a HR of 0.726 (95% CI, 0.381 - 1.382) 
was noted.  
During the procedure, OS analyses were updated using a data cut off of 3 October 2011. With a 
median follow-up of 41.0 months, the median OS has not been reached in either arm. The OS time 
was not significantly different in the primary comparison between Arms MPR+R and MPp+p with an HR 
(95% CI) of 0.898 (0.613-1.315) and a 2-sided unstratified log-rank test p-value = 0.579. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 18/50
 
 
 
 
In patients age ≤ 75 years, HR for survival in the primary comparison MPR+R versus MPp+p has 
further improved and the 95% CI has narrowed (HR [95% CI] = 0.706 [0.446-1.115] but still, no 
significantly difference in OS in favour of MPR+R is observed at this point.  
Time to progression 
TTP was significantly longer in arm MPR+R than arm MPp+p (p < 0.001, two-sided unstratified log 
rank test) as well as versus MPR+p arm (p < 0.001, two-sided unstratified log rank test). Analysis of 
TTP showed no significant differences between arms MPR+p and MPp+p. 
Time to treatment failure 
Time to treatment failure was significantly longer in arm MPR+R than in arm MPp+p (p < 0.001, two-
sided unstratified log rank test). Similarly, TTF was significantly longer in arm MPR+R than arm MPR+p 
(p = 0.006, two-sided unstratified log rank test). Whereas, analysis of TTF showed no significant 
differences between arms MPR+p and MPp+p. 
Salvage therapy (post hoc analysis) 
Salvage therapy included all therapies given after first line (ie, treatment received after discontinuation 
from the double-blind treatment phase), including the open-label extension phase treatment (starting 
dose of 25 mg of lenalidomide). Among the patients who received salvage therapy, approximately 95% 
of the patients received novel agent-based therapies with lenalidomide, bortezomib, and/or 
thalidomide. 
Time to the next antimyeloma therapy 
The time to the next antimyeloma therapy was significantly longer in patients treated with MPR+R 
compared with those treated with MPp+p (p < 0.001, two-sided unstratified log rank test; hazard ratio 
0.399; 95% CI: 0.284, 0.560). 
Lenalidomide 25 mg (the standard starting dose for RRMM), with or without dexamethasone, in the 
OLEP was considered second-line therapy, as well as all second-line anti-myeloma therapies given to 
patients outside of the protocol. On the whole safety population as of 11 May 2010, 24/75 of patients 
in Arm MPR+R received lenalidomide (25 mg) as second-line therapy, compared with 66/112 patients 
in Arm MPR+p and 88/123 patients in Arm MPp+p. As expected, the highest proportion of patients who 
received lenalidomide 25 mg in the open label extension phase was observed in the MPp+p arm. 
For patients who received second-line therapies outside of the protocol across treatment arms (N= 
158), 92 received bortezomib, 118 received glucocorticoids, and 26 received thalidomide. 
Time from second-line antimyeloma therapy to third-line antimyeloma therapies (post hoc analysis) 
The median time between second- and third-line antimyeloma therapies was similar in arms MPR+R 
and MPp+p (54.6 weeks and 54.1 weeks, respectively), When reducing to patients age ≤ 75 years, for 
patients who received any second-line AMT, as of 11 May 2010 the median time from second-line to 
third-line AMT was somewhat lower in Arm MPR+R compared with Arm MPp+p (59.6 weeks versus 
64.3 weeks); however, the confidence intervals overlap.  
Health-related Quality of life 
Comparisons between treatment arms show that, there were no statistically significant or clinically 
meaningful differences in the changes from baseline between treatment groups in the 6 selected scales 
(QLQ-C30 global health status, physical functioning, fatigue, pain, and disease symptoms; and QLQ-
MY20 disease symptoms, side effects related to treatment).  
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 19/50
 
 
 
 
There was no statistical difference between treatment arms in regard to HRQoL in responding patients. 
The lack of statistical or even clinically meaningful difference between treatment arms is not promising. 
The gain of MPR triple therapy over MP is once again questioned 
Study IFM 2005-02 
Methods 
This was a phase III, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 2-arm parallel study 
investigating lenalidomide therapy following ASCT for the treatment of multiple myeloma. The study 
was conducted in patients < 65 years old by the Intergroupe francophone du myeloma (IFM) and was 
sponsored by the University Hospital in Toulouse, France. It consisted of 2 treatment phases for each 
patient: a consolidation phase, and a maintenance phase. 
Study Participants 
This was conducted in 78 centres in France, Belgium and Switzerland. Patients were only eligible for 
enrollment into Study IFM 2005-02 if they had already completed successful induction chemotherapy 
and ASCT for the treatment of multiple myeloma. 
Main inclusion criteria were: 
Age 18 to 65 years 
- 
-  No signs of progression after transplant 
- 
Effective  contraception  if  necessary  (oral  contraception  for  females  and  barrier  methods  of 
contraception for sexually active males). 
-  No active severe infection. 
- 
- 
-  Creatinine < 160 µmol/l. 
Satisfactory  restoration  of  the  haematological  parameters  defined  by:  PN  >1,000/mm3  and 
Platelets > 75,000/mm3. 
Bilirubin < 35 umol/l and GOT/GPT/PAL< 3N. 
Main exclusion criteria were: 
Pregnant women or women of childbearing potential not using a reliable contraceptive method  
Past or current history of malignancy 
- 
- 
-  History of symptomatic cardiac failure or coronary disease VEF >40%.  
-  History of liver disorder: bilirubin >35μmol/L and AST, ALT and alkaline phosphate >4 ULN.  
-  History of lung disorder: ventilation tests and DLCO >50% N.  
-  History of renal disorder not related to the disease and defined by a creatinine >160 μmol/L.  
- 
- 
Active chronic infection  
Signs of progression after transplant 
Inclusion and non-inclusion criteria are appropriate for transplant-eligible (TE) patients. Patients 
included are representative of those likely to be treated with the experimental compound. 
Treatments 
Patients were randomised in the study following confirmation of entry criteria and within 6 months 
after ASCT, if there was hematological recovery and no disease progression. 
The study starts after MM patients have undergone 1 to 2 ASCT. The study design is given below. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 20/50
 
 
 
 
All patients withdrawn from the study were followed-up every 3 months until death for survival and 
late complications, except for patients who withdrew their consent. In addition, data for further 
antimyeloma treatment was collected. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a maintenance treatment with 
lenalidomide following autologous stem cell transplantation in extending post-transplantation PFS. 
Secondary objectives were to assess PFS from the date of diagnosis, OS, TTP, response rates and 
duration and safety of Lenalidomide in post-transplantation consolidation and maintenance treatment 
chemotherapy. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  post-transplantation  PFS  calculated  for  all  patients  from  the  date  of 
randomisation to the date of progression or death (whatever the cause).  
Secondary endpoints were: 
- 
PFS  from  diagnosis  calculated  for  all  patients  from  the  date  of  diagnosis  to  the  date  of 
progression or death (whatever the cause).  
-  OS calculated from the date of randomisation to the date of death.  
-  Response  duration  calculated  for  all  randomised  patients  with  a  complete  or  partial  response 
from the date of randomisation to the date of progression.  
-  Complete  response  duration  calculated  for  all  randomised  patients  with  a  complete  response 
from the date of randomisation or the date of complete response to the date of progression.  
TTP calculated for all patients from the date of randomisation to the date of progression.  
Time to the best response calculated for all patients from the date of randomisation to the date 
of the best response.  
- 
- 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 21/50
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
For  the  primary  efficacy  variable,  PFS,  sample  size  calculation  were  based  on  the  assumption  that  a 
42%  improvement  in  median  time  to  progression  from  37.5%  at  4  years  after  randomisation  for 
placebo to 50% at 4 years for lenalidomide was to be considered clinically relevant. With α = 5% (one-
sided) and β= 10%, 300 events, i.e. 267 randomised patients in each arm were required. Expecting a 
drop out of 15%, 614 patients enrolled at diagnosis were required. As the one-sided α error should be 
more  stringently  defined  at  2.5%,  updated  sample  size  calculation  purportedly  required  a  similar 
number of patients (263 progressions or deaths) for a one sided log rank test at 2.5% adjusted for 1 
interim analysis, which was unreasonable.  
Randomisation 
After  transplantation,  patients  were  randomised  (1:1)  to  1  of  2  arms,  lenalidomide  arm  or  placebo 
arm.  The  comparator  (placebo)  is  considered  adequate  since  after  SCT  there  is  no  reference 
maintenance treatment.  
Randomisation was stratified based on 3 parameters: 
-  Chromosome  13  deletion  (del  13+  or  del  13-),  if  screening  for  chromosome  13  deletion  at 
diagnosis was unsuccessful, it was considered as negative for the stratification 
β2-microglobulin at diagnosis (≤ 3 mg/L or > 3 mg/L) 
- 
-  Response to latest transplantation (≥ VGPR or < VGPR) 
Initial  stratification  also  comprised  the  number  of  transplants  (1  or  2).  Amendment  4  modified  this 
stratum  which  became  post-transplantation  response.  In  total,  334  patients  were  randomised  before 
amendment 4.  
Blinding (masking) 
This was a double blind study. 
Statistical methods 
This study was designed to have 1 interim analysis performed after 60% of events (progression and/or 
deaths) had been observed. An independent DMC evaluated safety and efficacy data at the time of the 
interim analysis. Upper and lower bounds based on O’Brien-Fleming stopping rules were used in the 
interim efficacy analysis. The primary efficacy variable PFS, was compared between arms using a 
group sequential log-rank test corresponding to 2 analyses one interim at 60% information and one 
final at 100% information. The upper boundary for superiority of lenalidomide over placebo was based 
on an α spending function of the O’Brien-Fleming type with overall one-sided α=0.025. If at the interim 
analysis (at 60%), a log rank statistic is above the upper boundary a recommendation to stop the 
study and claim superiority for the lenalidomide to be considered. 
If the ITT population and the PP population differed by more than 10% in size, the analysis of the 
primary efficacy variable was to be repeated using the PP population to provide evidence of 
sensitivity/robustness of the primary analysis results. 
Efficacy analyses were performed on the ITT population which prevents from attrition bias. Subgroup 
analyses for the primary endpoint (PFS) were performed based on stratification parameters. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 22/50
 
 
 
 
 
Results  
Participant flow 
Of the 614 patients enrolled, 307 patients were randomised in Len arm and 307 in Pbo arm. The figure 
below describes the disposition of patients as of 07 July 2010 whether they receive or not post-
transplant consolidation required by protocol amendment 2. 
Recruitment 
The study started on June 2006. The fist patient was randomised on February the 1st 2007, the last 
randomised on September 19th, 2008. 
Conduct of the study 
Treatment compliance was not formally analysed since dose reductions and interruptions were allowed 
for each patient based on tolerability. Relative dose intensity is used as a surrogate for compliance. 
Nine amendments to the study protocol were made. 
This first interim analysis was carried out at the end of December 2009 by an independent statistician. 
This analysis was submitted to the DMC whose recommendation was the study should be unblinded but 
pursued until its term and that the decision  to use Lenalidomide maintenance in patients of the 
placebo arm be made after discussing with patients the risks and benefits associated with such 
intervention. The study was unblinded on 07 July 2010. Whereas the interim PFS analysis was based 
on assessments of response and PD by the investigator, the final PFS analysis was based on 
assessments performed by an Independent Review Committee (IRC). 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 23/50
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
No clinically meaningful differences in demographic baseline characteristics were observed between the 
treatment arms in the ITT population. The type of prior induction chemotherapy was homogenous, 
>90% of patients having received either VAD or Velcade+dexamethasone. The number of ASCT was 
well balanced between lenalidomide and placebo arms with 79% of patients in both arms having 
undergone one ASCT. 
Patient characteristics at diagnosis based on stratification factors were similar in both arms. 
Approximately 75% of the patients had stage III disease according to the Durie Salmon Staging 
System.  
Response after transplant was better than VGPR in approximately 50% of patients in the placebo as 
well as in the lenalidomide arm. This means that consolidation was proposed to patients who, in the 
majority, are very good responders. This subpopulation should skip to the maintenance phase. There is 
no justification as why the whole population should undergo consolidation. 
After observing an imbalance of SPMs in the lenalidomide arm, a safety measure was initiated, by the 
sponsor, on 26 Jan 2011 which resulted in the immediate treatment discontinuation of patients in the 
lenalidomide arm who were still receiving study maintenance treatment at that time. 
Numbers analysed 
In the initial application, the PFS results were based on an interim analysis (04 Sep 2009 data cut off) 
at 60% (180/300) of the planned PFS events for the final analysis specified in the original study 
design.  
The final PFS analysis was conducted using data up to study unblinding on 07 July 2010 at 88% 
(264/300) PFS events. Whereas the interim PFS analysis included in the original submission was based 
on assessments of response and PD by the investigator, the final PFS analysis was based on 
assessments performed by an Independent Review Committee (IRC). 
A more recent data cut off, 07 Oct 2011, is being used for all OS analyses, second line therapy and for 
occurrence of SPM. Based on this updated data set, the study has now reached a median follow-up of 
41.4 months for surviving patients. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint: PFS 
At the cut-off date of 04 September 2009, the median PFS, estimated from univariate Kaplan-Meier 
curves, was 99.29 weeks (95% CI 89.14; 119.14) for the Placebo arm and had not been reached for 
the Lenalidomide arm (p<0.0000001; HR 0.45). 
The final PFS analysis was conducted using data up to study unblinding on 7 July 2010 at 88% 
(264/300) PFS events. The event rates were 52.1% for the placebo arm and 33.9% for the 
lenalidomide arm. The median PFS time was 177.7 weeks in the lenalidomide arm and 100.1 weeks in 
the placebo arm. The observed HR (95% CI) of 0.50 (0.39-0.65) with log-rank test p-value < 
0.0000001 represents a 50% reduction in the risk of progression or death for the lenalidomide arm as 
compared to the placebo arm. The 2-, 3-, and 4-year progression-free survival rates for the 
lenalidomide-treated patients were 74.1%, 59.4%, and 39.1%, respectively. In comparison, the 2-, 3-, 
and 4-year PFS rates for the placebo-treated patients are lower (48.4%, 35.2%, and 19.5%, 
respectively). The PFS gain is numerically unquestionable. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 24/50
 
 
 
 
The induction therapies administered in this trial were predominantly VAD and [bortezomib+ 
dexamethasone]. Randomised studies have shown that combinations of novel agents (bortezomib or 
thalidomide) plus dexamethasone are superior to the classical VAD regimen. Nowadays, VAD is still 
used as induction regimen but, in order to avoid alkylating agents, VD is preferred as well as 
[vincristine + dexamethasone] or [thalidomide + dexamethasone]. With the latest, the response rates 
achieved after induction may be different from the ones obtained with IFM 2005 induction regimens. 
Moreover, for ASCT, the current practice requires higher level of response (VGPR or CR) than the 
transplant procedure for IFM 2005-02 trial required. All these parameters may have an impact on 
subsequent benefit from lenalidomide maintenance. 
When analysing by stratification prognostic factor, the subgroup of patients with beta 2 microglobulin 
below 3 mg/dL at baseline seems to be associated with a larger treatment effect (PFS advantage). 
There were 115 patients in the lenalidomide arm and 131 in the placebo arm who had best responses 
of PR/SD post-transplant. Among these patients with a less robust response to ASCT, a lower 
proportion of patients in the lenalidomide arm had progressed/died compared with the placebo arm 
(37.4% [43/115] versus 61.1% [80/131]). The HR (95% CI) was 0.44 (0.30 – 0.64), representing a 
56% reduction in the risk to progression in the lenalidomide arm. Also  in the subgroup of patients who 
had best responses of CR/VGPR post-transplant, a lower proportion of patients in the lenalidomide arm 
(31.2% [59/189]) had progressed/died compared with the placebo arm (45.5% [80/176]). The HR 
(95% CI) was 0.57 (0.41 – 0.80), representing a 43% reduction in the risk to progression in the 
lenalidomide arm. 
In conclusion, patients who had only achieved a PR/SD after ASCT (40% of the population) benefited 
earlier and to a greater extent from lenalidomide maintenance than those who had already achieved a 
CR/VGPR. 
Secondary endpoints 
Overall survival 
The original submission used a data cut off date of 04 Sep 2009, representing a median duration of 
follow-up time of OS for all patients of 21.8 months. At that time, the median OS had not been 
reached in both treatment arms and no statistical difference on OS had been demonstrated between 
the lenalidomide arm and the placebo arm. (HR=0.95; 95%IC= (0.54-1.65); p=08536).  
An update on OS was presented during the evaluation with a cut off date of 7 October 2011, 
representing a median duration follow-up time of OS for all patients of 41.4 months: the median OS 
was 259.1 weeks in the lenalidomide arm and 251.9 weeks in the placebo arm. The survival was not 
significantly different between the 2 arms with an HR (95% CI) of 1.12 (0.81-1.55) and a 2-sided 
unstratified log-rank test p-value = 0.505. The event rates were of 68/307 (22%) for placebo and 
76/307 (25%) for lenalidomide.  
Progression free survival from the date of diagnosis 
The median PFS from the date of diagnosis, estimated from univariate Kaplan-Meier curves, was 
146.57 weeks (95% CI 128.29; 156.71) for the placebo arm and had not been reached for the 
lenalidomide arm (p < 0.0000001; HR 0.440). 
Time to progression  
Median time to progression was significantly longer in the lenalidomide arm compared with the placebo 
arm (p < 0.0000001; HR 0.44). Median time to progression was not reached in the lenalidomide arm 
and was 99.29 weeks (~23 months) in the placebo arm. 
Overall Best Response Rate 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 25/50
 
 
 
 
The overall myeloma response rate (≥ PR i.e., CR or VGPR or PR) was similar in both treatment arms: 
99.3% (305/307) in the lenalidomide arm and 99.0% (304/307) in the placebo arm. 
The comparison of response rates between the pre-consolidation  and  the post-consolidation shows 
that the rate of patients with complete response or VGPR was statistically significantly higher during 
the post-consolidation period (68.7%) versus the pre-consolidation period (63.6%), p=0.0002. So the 
MAH states that consolidation with lenalidomide monotherapy for 2 months statistically significantly 
improved the depth of response. However response was improved in all patients after transplant at 
randomisation versus after consolidation. The imputability to lenalidomide is groundless. 
Data were not available on all patients for the IRC to determine response at baseline and after 
consolidation; however, the best response and date of PD could be determined for all treated patients. 
The 2 courses of lenalidomide consolidation therapy improved the quality of response (CR/VGPR) from 
53% of patients at baseline (160/361) to 66% of patients (181/274) after consolidation therapy in the 
Pbo arm and from 55% at baseline (162/294) to 66% after consolidation (179/269) in the Len arm.  
During the subsequent course of maintenance treatment, the quality of response (CR/VGPR) improved 
further in both arms but more so with lenalidomide (84%) than with placebo (73%). 
Duration of Response 
Median response duration for patients who achieved at least a VGPR was significantly longer in the 
lenalidomide arm compared with the placebo arm (p<0.0001; HR 0.45). Median response duration was 
not reached in the lenalidomide arm and was 110.14 weeks (~25.4 months) in the placebo arm. 
Median duration of complete response was not reached in both treatment arms. 
Second line anti-myeloma therapy  
There was an imbalance in the number of patients who had received second-line therapy in the placebo 
and lenalidomide treatment arms (177 [57.7%] versus 123 [36.8%] patients, respectively). Of the 
patients in the lenalidomide treatment arm who received second-line therapy, 36.8% had received 
bortezomib and 5.9% had received lenalidomide. In the placebo treatment arm, 29.6% had received 
lenalidomide, 10.4% had received bortezomib, and 8.8% had received combinations of novel drugs as 
second-line therapies. 
There is no evidence that Lenalidomide maintenance therapy may not adversely affect the activity of 
the second-line antimyeloma therapy other than lenalidomide. 
For any second-line therapy including lenalidomide, there was a prolonged PFS observed in favour of 
the group that had received placebo in maintenance (median of 39.1 weeks for the placebo arm versus 
33.3 weeks for the lenalidomide arm; HR [95% CI] = 1.41 [1.03-1.92]). This finding has to be 
interpreted with caution based on the imbalance of patients who were initiated on second-line therapy 
(limited size of subpopulations) and on the fact that the second line anti-myeloma therapy was not 
allocated on a randomised scheme. So, the concern whether the efficacy of second-line therapy could 
potentially affect OS can not be addressed.  
In other words, if administering lenalidomide as first line treatment prevents from using it as 
subsequent line, it limits the options of second and further lines of treatment.  
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 26/50
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 2.  Summary of Efficacy for trial CC-5013-MM-015  
Title:  A  Phase  III,  Multicentre,  Randomised,  Double-blind,  Placebo-controlled,  3-Arm  Parallel-group 
Study  to  Determine  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of  Lenalidomide  (Revlimid®)  in  Combination  With 
Melphalan  and  Prednisone  Versus  Placebo  Plus  Melphalan  and  Prednisone  in  Patients  With  Newly 
Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Who are 65 Years of Age or Older 
Study identifier 
CC-5013-MM-015 
Design 
Phase III, Multicentre, Randomised, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled 3-Arm 
parallel study 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Induction of up to 9 cycles followed by 
maintenance therapy until disease 
progression or treatment discontinuation 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
MPR+R 
MPR+p 
MPp+p 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Progression 
free survival 
(PFS) 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary  
endpoint 
Overall 
Survival 
(OS) to 5 
years 
Response 
rate  
Induction (9 cycles): For each 28 day cycle 
Melphalan 0.18 mg/kg, Days 1-4 
Prednisone 2 mg/kg, Days 1-4 
Lenalidomide 10 mg/day PO, Days 1-21 
Maintenance (from cycle 10 until progression) 
Lenalidomide 10 mg/d, Days 1-21 of each 28-
day cycle 
Induction (9 cycles): For each 28 day cycle 
Melphalan 0.18 mg/kg, Days 1-4 
Prednisone 2 mg/kg, Days 1-4 
Lenalidomide 10 mg/day PO, Days 1-21 
Maintenance (from cycle 10 until progression) 
Placebo 
Induction (9 cycles): For each 28 day cycle 
Melphalan 0.18 mg/kg, Days 1-4 
Prednisone 2 mg/kg, Days 1-4 
Placebo, Days 1-21 
Maintenance (from cycle 10 until progression) 
Placebo 
time from randomisation to the first 
documentation of progressive disease based 
on the EBMT/IBMTR/ABMTR criteria, or death 
due to any cause during the treatment phase 
time from randomisation to death due to any 
cause 
complete response [CR] and partial response 
[PR] using EBMT/IBMTR/ABMTR criteria 
Secondary  
endpoint 
Duration of 
response 
time from randomisation to the first 
documented objective response including CR 
and PR 
Database lock 
11 May 2010 (76% PFS events) 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 27/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Intent to treat 
Primary efficacy comparison: MPR+R vs MPp+p  
Secondary efficacy comparisons: MPR+R vs MPR+p and MPR+p vs MPp+p 
Treatment group 
MPR+p  
MPp+p  
MPR+R 
Number of 
patient 
Progressed/Died 
N (%) 
Censored 
N (%) 
Median PFS 
(weeks)  
[95% CI]  
152 
153 
154 
52 (34.2) 
81 (52.9) 
93 (60.4) 
100 (65.8) 
72 (47.1) 
61 (39.6) 
136.1 
62.1 
56.1 
(86.14, NE) 
(56.14, 72.14) 
(52.14, 68.14) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
PFS 
Comparison groups 
MPR+R vs MPp+p  
HR [95% CI]  
0.395 (0.278,0.560) 
P-value  
(unstratified log rank) 
Comparison groups 
HR [95% CI]  
P-value  
(unstratified log rank) 
Comparison groups 
< 0.001 
MPR+R vs MPR+p  
0.494 (0.347,0.702) 
< 0.001 
MPR+p vs MPp+p  
HR [95% CI]  
0.796 (0.589,1.075) 
P-value  
(unstratified log rank) 
0.134 
NE 
Not estimable 
Summary of Efficacy for trial IFM 2005-02  
Title:  Benefit  of  a  maintenance  treatment  with  lenalidomide  following  autologous  stem  cell 
transplantation in patients with myeloma aged less than 65 years 
Study identifier 
Protocol no. 04.004.01 / IFM 2005-02 
Design 
Phase III, multicenter, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 2-arm 
parallel study 
Duration of main phase: 
Consolidation phase (2 cycles of 28 days) 
followed by maintenance phase until relapse 
not applicable 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Placebo (Arm A) 
Consolidation: lenalidomide 25 mg/day (day 
1-21 every 28 day cycle, 2 cycles) 
Maintenance: placebo until progression 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 28/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lenalidomide (Arm B) 
Consolidation: lenalidomide 25 mg/day (day 
1-21 every 28 day cycle, 2 cycles) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Maintenance: lenalidomide 10 mg/day (if 
tolerated, could be increased to 15 mg/day) 
until progression 
Time from the date of randomisation to the 
date of progression or death (whatever the 
cause) 
Time from the date of diagnosis to the date of 
progression or death (whatever the cause). 
Time from the date of randomisation to the 
date of death 
Post-
transplantat
ion 
progression 
free survival 
(PFS) 
PFS from 
diagnosis 
Overall 
survival 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Response 
duration 
Time for all randomised patients with a 
complete or partial response from the date of 
randomisation to the date of progression 
Database lock 
7 July 2010 (88% interim analysis) 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Intent to treat 
Treatment group 
Placebo 
Lenalidomide  
Total 
Number of 
patient 
Censored  
Progressed or 
died 
Overall Post-
transplantation 
PFS (weeks) 
Median 
307 
307 
614 
147 (47.9%) 
203 (66.1%) 
350 (57.0%) 
160 (52.1%) 
104 (33.9%) 
264 (43.0%) 
100.1 
177.7 
95% CI 
(92.1; 121.7) 
(166.4;NE) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
Post-
transplantation 
PFS 
Comparison groups 
Placebo vs Lenalidomide  
HR [95% CI]  
0.50 (0.39-0.65)  
P-value  
(stratified log rank) 
<0.0000001 
NE 
Not estimable 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 29/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive studies 
Study CALGB 100104 
Methods 
This study was a phase 3 randomised, double-blind study of maintenance therapy with lenalidomide or 
placebo following ASCT for multiple myeloma. It was sponsored by the US Cancer and Leukemia Group 
B (CALGB).  It is submitted as a supportive study. 
Study Participants 
The patient population of Study CALGB 100104 was similar to Study IFM 2005-02 with the exception 
that the study did not have a consolidation period and patients went directly to maintenance therapy. 
Treatments 
Patients were registered prior to ASCT. During registration, the patients signed the informed consent 
form and were assigned a patient identification number. The ASCT had to occur 4 to 6 weeks after 
registration. There was no consolidation treatment post-transplantation. Patients with stable disease or 
better were randomised at Day 100 to 110 post-transplant in a double-blind fashion to maintenance 
treatment with lenalidomide or placebo. The starting dose was 10 mg/day, escalated to 15 mg/day 
after 3 months, and continued until disease progression. Maintenance treatment was stopped and/or 
dose reduced as needed to manage toxicity. 
Patients in the CALGB study were stratified prior to randomisation according to 2 parameters: β2 
microglobulin at diagnosis (≥ 2.5 mg/dL versus normal) and type of induction therapy (thalidomide-
containing versus lenalidomide-containing versus other). 
The study design is given below. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 30/50
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the CALGB 100104 study was to determine if maintenance treatment with 
lenalidomide would prolong TTP after a single ASCT. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In the CALGB 100104 study, the primary endpoint was called TTP. However, by definition, the TTP 
calculation censoring rules used in this study were essentially equivalent to those for the standard 
calculation of PFS (progression or death for any reason count as an event from Day 0 of ASCT).  
Results  
Full analysis of results from the CALGB 100104 study, prior to unblinding, uses 17 December 2009 as 
cut off date. A more recent data cut off, 07 Oct 2011, is being used for second line therapy and for 
occurrence of SPM analysis (cut off date 17 August 2011) and for OS analyses (cut off date 15 
September 2011). Based on this updated data set, the study has now reached a median follow-up of 
32.7 months for surviving patients. 
Participant flow 
Of the 460 patients randomised, 229 were allocated to placebo and 231 to lenalidomide. 
The figure below describes the disposition of patients as of the 17 Dec 2009 cut off date.  
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 31/50
 
 
 
 
 
After randomisation, in the placebo arm, more patients discontinued treatment due to disease 
progression or relapse (38.4%) than for any other reason whereas in the Len arm only 11.3% 
discontinued treatment due to PD or relapse. 
As of the 17 Dec 2009 cut off date for unblinding, 133 (57.6%) patients in the lenalidomide arm and 
110 (48.0%) patients in the placebo arm were still on treatment. As per the most recent data cut off, 
95 of the 231 patients randomised to the lenalidomide arm were still on lenalidomide therapy as of 17 
August 2011. 
Conduct of the study 
The first planned interim analysis of the CALGB 100104 study was reviewed by the DSMB in June 
2009. The DSMB requested an update. The update included an interim analysis of data which was 
performed after 28% (87/309) of the PFS events required for the planned final analysis had occurred 
(September 2009 cut off date), and was reviewed by the DSMB in November 2009. This DSMB review 
led to the release of the results in December 2009 as the efficacy results had surpassed the 
prespecified boundary. Analyses prior to unblinding were performed with the 17 December 2009 cut off 
date. At the time of unblinding, patients who were receiving placebo were allowed to cross over to 
open-label lenalidomide. 
Baseline data 
The demographic and baseline characteristics of the patients in the IFM 2005-02 and CALGB 100104 
studies were balanced between the lenalidomide and placebo arms in each respective study and 
between the 2 studies. However the following differences were observed: 
- Patients in the CALGB study had less advanced disease (approximately 52% Durie-Salmon stage III 
in CALGB compared to 76% in IFM ) and lower tumor burden (β2- microglobulin levels ≥ 3.0 mg/L), 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 32/50
 
 
 
 
 
- 64% of patients in the CALGB 100104 study had responses of PR/SD post-transplantation prior to 
randomisation, whereas only 40% of patients in the IFM 2005-02 study had achieved a PR/SD after 
ASCT, 
- None of the patients in the CALGB 100104 study had received a second ASCT,  
- In the CALGB 100104 study, patients had more exposure to lenalidomide- or thalidomide-containing 
regimens as prior induction MM therapy (~74%).  
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint: PFS 
The PFS results reported in the original submission (D80) were based on data presented at the 2010 
Annual ASCO Meeting. That analysis was done when 28% (87/309) of the planned PFS events had 
occurred.  
The present update corresponds to the final PFS analysis that was conducted using the database 
updated to study unblinding (17 Dec 2009) when 47% (147/309) of the events planned had occurred.  
As of 17 Dec 2009, the event rates were 21.2% for the lenalidomide arm and 45.0% for the placebo 
arm. The median PFS was 175.0 weeks in the lenalidomide arm and 79.1 weeks in the placebo arm. 
The observed HR (95% CI) of 0.353 (0.250-0.498) with log-rank test p-value <0.001 represents a 
65% reduction in the risk of progression or death for the lenalidomide arm as compared to placebo 
arm. So, the treatment effect is large. 
The 2- and 3-year PFS rates for the lenalidomide-treated patients are 74.0% and 51.0%, respectively. 
In comparison, the 2- and 3-year PFS rates for the placebo-treated patients were lower (43.1% and 
19.5%, respectively). 
There were 156 patients in the lenalidomide arm and 140 patients in the placebo arm who had only 
achieved PR/SD post-transplant. Among these patients, a lower proportion in the lenalidomide arm had 
progressed/died compared with the placebo arm (21.2% [33/156] versus 52.1% [73/140]). The HR 
(95% CI) was 0.300 (0.198-0.454), representing a 70% reduction in risk of progression/death in 
favour of the lenalidomide arm. In the subpopulation of patients who achieved PR/SD post-transplant, 
lenalidomide significantly prolongs PFS. 
In comparison, for patients who had achieved a CR/VGPR post-transplant, the HR (95% CI) was 0.650 
(0.314-1.344), representing a 35% reduction in risk of progression/death in favour of the lenalidomide 
arm, but without statistical significance. However the limited size of this subgroup of patients, even 
decreasing with follow up, make hazardous the interpretation of PFS curves.    
CALGB and IFM studies follow the same design (with the exception of 2 months consolidation in both 
arms of IFM). Hence PFS results in CALGB are supportive for the maintenance part of the IFM. 
Secondary endpoints 
Overall survival 
The present update of OS has a data cut off date of 15 Sep 2011, representing a median duration of 
follow-up time of 32.7 months. As of the 15 Sep 2011 cut off date, the number of deaths included 32 
patients (13.9%) in the lenalidomide arm and 49 patients (21.4%) in the placebo arm. The median OS 
time has not been reached in the lenalidomide arm or in the placebo arm. The survival was 
significantly different between the 2 arms with an HR (95% CI) of 0.613 (0.393-0.958) and a 2-sided 
unstratified log-rank test p-value = 0.030. This represents a 39% reduction in risk of death in favour 
of lenalidomide maintenance therapy. However the CI is wide and the upper limit almost reaches 1. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 33/50
 
 
 
 
No conclusion can be drawn from the analysis of OS per subgroup  (patients with post-transplant 
response of PR/SD or CR/VGPR) since the population size is too small. 
Second line anti-myeloma therapy 
The type of subsequent therapy in the CALGB 100104 study was analysed using the most recent data 
cut off date of 17 Aug 2011. As of the 17 Aug 2011 cut off, a total of 76 patients in the placebo arm 
had crossed over to receive lenalidomide treatment prior to PD. Therefore, the time from second-line 
to third-line therapy does not represent a good surrogate for PFS of the second-line therapy. As off 17 
Aug 11, there was an imbalance in the number of patients who had received subsequent therapy in the 
lenalidomide and placebo treatment arms (20/231 [8.7%] versus 124/229 [54.1%] patients, 
respectively), reflective of the efficacy (PFS) of the maintenance therapy prior to unblinding and the 
patients who crossed over to receive active treatment. 
Study ECOG E4A03 
Study ECOG E4A03 was a randomised phase 3 study of lenalidomide plus standard-dose 
dexamethasone versus lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone in previously untreated multiple 
myeloma with thalidomide plus dexamethasone salvage therapy for non-responders.  
It was a National Cancer Institute-sponsored study, which was conducted by the Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) and enrolled 445 patients at 138 sites in the US. 
The primary objective of the study was to compare response rates after 4 cycles of treatment between 
the 2 treatment arms (randomised 1:1): 223 patients were randomised to arm len/D (lenalidomide 25 
mg daily for 21 days every 28-day cycle combined with standard-dose dexamethasone [40 mg daily on 
Days 1 to 4, 9 to 12, and 17 to 20 every 28-day cycle]) and 222 patients were randomised to arm 
len/d (lenalidomide 25 mg daily for 21 days every 28-day cycle combined with low-dose 
dexamethasone [40 mg daily on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 every 28 day cycle]). 
The protocol-planned primary endpoint was the response rate in the first 4 cycles of the first phase of 
the study. Response was assessed by an Independent Response Adjudication Committee (IRAC).  
This submission included the following ad hoc analyses (which were not protocol-planned): overall 
response rate (i.e., response assessments over the treatment period) based on the IRAC review, 
duration of response, time to first response, TTP, PFS, and OS. 
The DSMB recommended termination of enrollment after an interim analysis showed a survival 
advantage for combination lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone therapy over combination 
lenalidomide plus standard-dose dexamethasone therapy. Following this recommendation, enrollment 
was suspended on 27 Mar 2007, and the study was terminated on 01 Jun 2007. 
The overall response rate in the first 4 cycles (comparison of the dichotomized response [CR + nCR + 
PR]) was significantly lower in the len/d arm (64.4% [143/222]) than the len/D arm (77.1% 
[172/223]) (p = 0.0035; Fisher’s exact test). Among the responders, the duration of response was not 
significantly different between treatment arms (p = 0.0761), however was numerically longer in the 
len/d arm than the len/D arm, as shown with the hazard ratio favouring the len/d arm (hazard ratio 
1.506; 95% CI: 0.955, 2.375). The proportion of responders who continued to respond at the time of 
analysis was higher in the len/d arm than the len/D arm (80.1% vs 72.6%, respectively). 
PFS was not significantly different between treatment arms (p = 0.1350, unstratified log rank test; 
hazard ratio 1.321; CI [0.916, 1.904]), however a trend was observed that PFS was longer in the len/d 
arm than the len/D arm. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 34/50
 
 
 
 
 
Overall survival was defined as the number of weeks between the registration/randomisation and 
death, regardless of cause. As of the date of data release (26 Mar 2007), 17 of the 222 patients 
(7.7%) in len/d arm and 43 of the 223 patients (19.3%) in the len/D arm had died. Median OS had not 
been reached for either treatment arm. Based on the unstratified log rank test, OS was significantly 
longer in the len/d arm than in the len/D arm (p = 0.0003). Based on the hazard ratio (assuming 
proportional hazard ratio over time), the patients in the len/D arm were approximately 2.7 times as 
likely to die at anytime as those in the len/d arm (CI: 1.528, 4.706). 
Using data up to the extended follow-up cut off (as of 01 Jul 2008), 48 of the 222 patients (21.6%) in 
the len/d arm, and 54 of the 223 patients (24.2%) in the len/D arm had died (p = 0.2895). The 
median OS could not be estimated for either treatment arm because too few deaths had occurred. 
ECOG E4A03 trial is submitted as a supportive study. Its results were requested by the CHMP as a 
safety follow up measure (FUM) following granting of marketing authorisation to Revlimid in second 
line treatment MM to propose management of thromboprophylaxy in MM patients. 
As for efficacy, results have shown that low dose dexamethasone provides benefit in terms of efficacy 
(longer overall survival) and safety (lower toxicity of dexamethasone). But first-line therapy in MM 
differs whether patients are candidates to transplant or not. Unfortunately, ECOG study included mixed 
population as regards transplant status.   
In the claimed indication (NDMM), lenalidomide is not proposed in combination with dexamethasone. 
Lenalidomide dosage in ECOG study was higher (25 mg) than the one proposed for NDMM whatever 
the scheme is.  
For all these reasons, the contribution of this supportive trial to the extension of variation is poor. 
Study SWOG S0232 
Methods 
Study SWOG S0232 was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial comparing the standard-dose 
of dexamethasone to the combination of lenalidomide plus dexamethasone in patients with previously 
untreated multiple myeloma who were not immediately undergoing ASCT. Patients could continue on 
study and delay ASCT if treatment was successful. 
Study SWOG S0232 was sponsored by the Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) and enrolled 198 
patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma in 41 US centres.  
The primary objective of the study was to compare PFS between the 2 treatment arms: lenalidomide 
+dexamethasone (len/D) or placebo+dexamethasone (pbo/D).  
The secondary objectives were to compare between the 2 treatment arms: 
- Overall response rate (ORR) 
- Major response rate (> 75% decrease in monoclonal protein [M-protein]) 
- Time to best response 
- OS 
- Toxicity profile, including thrombotic complications 
At registration into the study, patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio into the len/D arm or the pbo/D 
arm. Randomisation was stratified by International Staging System (ISS) disease stage at registration 
into the study (Stage I vs Stage II versus Stage III) and performance status (0 and 1 vs 2 and 3).  
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 35/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage regimen used during induction phase (35-Day Cycles) was 25 mg of lenalidomide or placebo 
orally once daily on Days 1 to 28 plus 40 mg of dexamethasone orally once daily on Days 1 to 4, 9 to 
12, and 17 to 20 every 35 days for 3 cycles. 
Dosage regimen used during maintenance phase (28-Day Cycles) was 25 mg of lenalidomide or 
placebo orally once daily on Days 1 to 21 plus 40 mg of dexamethasone orally once daily on Days 1 to 
4 and 15 to 18 every 28 days until disease progression or the patient discontinued from the study for 
another reason. 
Patients in both treatment arms were to receive prophylaxis for thrombo-embolic events (325 mg/day 
of aspirin orally or 40 mg/day of enoxaparin subcutaneously if the patient had an allergy to or 
intolerance to aspirin) on each day of each cycle during the induction and maintenance phases. 
The figure below gives the study design. 
The study was planned to include 500 patients. A total of 198 patients were enrolled: 100 patients 
were randomised to the len/D arm, and 98 patients were randomised to the pbo/D arm. All 198 
patients were included in the ITT population for the efficacy analysis; 194 patients (98 patients in the 
len/D arm and 96 patients in the pbo/D arm) received at least 1 dose of study medication 
(lenalidomide/placebo or dexamethasone) and were included in the safety analyses. 
Main inclusion criteria were:  
-  Patients aged ≥ 18 years who had a diagnosis of previously untreated multiple myeloma 
-  no immediate plans to undergo ASCT 
-  measurable disease, defined as a serum M-protein level of ≥ 1.0 g/dL (≥ 10.0 g/L) as measured by 
serum  protein  electrophoresis  or  immune  electrophoresis,  a  urinary  M  protein  level  of  ≥  200 
mg/24 hours (≥ 0.2 g/24 hours), or both within 28 days before registration into the study 
-  Zubrod performance status of 0 to 3 
-  adequate bone marrow, liver, and renal function. 
Main exclusion criteria were: 
-  Non secretory MM 
-  Prior treatment for multiple myeloma 
-  Pregnancy 
-  Uncontrolled active infection 
-  New York Heart Association Class III or IV 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 36/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Poorly  controlled  hypertension,  poorly  controlled  diabetes  mellitus,  or  other  serious  or  psychiatric 
illness 
-  Prior malignancy 
-  Unable  to  take  either  325  mg/day  of  aspirin  by  mouth  or,  alternatively,  40  mg  of  enoxaparin 
subcutaneously once daily for thrombotic prophylaxis 
Patients received treatment until disease progression occurred or until the patient discontinued 
treatment for another reason. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was PFS calculated as the weeks between study registration and 
documented disease progression or death, whichever occurred first.  
The secondary efficacy endpoints were ORR, time to response, duration of response, OS, and TTP.  
For the primary efficacy analyses, a blinded Independent Response Assessment Committee (IRAC) 
assessed the tumor response of each patient using myeloma response criteria as modified from Bladé 
and the Myeloma Subcommittee of the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplant (EBMT). The 
supportive efficacy analyses used the PFS and tumor response based on SWOG’s assessments. 
The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the survival distribution functions for PFS, duration of 
response, OS, and TTP in each treatment arm. A Cox proportional hazards model with treatment term 
was used to estimate relative risk (len/D over pbo/D) and the 95% confidence interval (CI). 
Comparison between treatment arms was performed using a 1-sided Fisher’s exact test with α = 5%. 
Results 
The study was initiated on 15 Oct 2004. At the recommendation of the DSMC, accrual to the study was 
stopped on 02 Apr 2007 after preliminary results of the ECOG E4A03 study suggested a survival 
advantage for combination lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone therapy over combination 
lenalidomide plus standard-dose dexamethasone therapy. The treatment assignments for all patients 
were unblinded on 11 May 2007. 
Efficacy results focus on a comparison of blinded data for the 2 treatment arms (len/D and pbo/D) 
based on data from the start of the study on 15 Oct 2004 up to study unblinding on 11 May 2007. 
The disposition of patients in both treatment arms as of 11 May 2007 is summarized in the following 
figure. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 37/50
 
 
 
 
 
The median duration of follow-up for this analysis was 64.4 weeks for the patients in the len/D arm 
and 62.5 weeks for the patients in the pbo/D arm. 
PFS 
As of the date of study unblinding on 11 May 2007, PFS was significantly longer in the len/D treatment 
arm than in the pbo/D treatment arm ((HR = 0.369 [0.199, 0.684], p = 0.001, unstratified log rank 
test). 
Overall Response Rate, Time to Response, and Duration of Response 
Based on the IRAC assessment of myeloma response, the overall response rate (comparison of the 
dichotomized response [CR + nCR + PR]) was significantly higher in the len/D treatment arm than in 
the pbo/D treatment (67.0% versus 40.8%; p=0.0003, Fisher’s exact test). Based on the odds ratio, 
the patients in the len/D treatment arm were approximately 2.9 times as likely to respond to therapy 
as those in the pbo/D treatment arm. Of note, 40 of the 100 patients (40.0%) in the len/D treatment 
arm, compared with 8 of the 98 patients (8.2%) in the pbo/D treatment arm, achieved a CR or nCR to 
therapy. 
No significant differences were observed between the treatment arms in the time to response or in the 
duration of response. 
OS 
As of study unblinding on 11 May 2007, 8 of the 100 patients (8.0%) in the len/D treatment arm and 
18 of the 98 patients (18.4%) in the pbo/D treatment arm had died. Median OS had not been reached 
in either treatment arm (i.e., too few deaths had occurred). Based on the unstratified log rank test, OS 
was significantly longer in the len/D treatment arm than in the pbo/D treatment arm (p = 0.0342). 
Extended follow-up data included data up to 23 Oct 2008 for the patients who received blinded therapy 
with len/D or pbo/D from 15 Oct 2004 through 11 May 2007 (date of study unblinding). The median 
duration of follow-up for this analysis was 129.2 weeks for the patients in the len/D treatment arm and 
120.8 weeks for the patients in the pbo/D treatment arm. As of 23 Oct 2008, 21 of the 100 patients 
(21.0%) who had received blinded treatment with len/D and 24 of the 98 patients (24.5%) who had 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 38/50
 
 
 
 
 
received blinded treatment with pbo/D had died. Median OS could not be estimated for either of the 
treatment arms because too few deaths had occurred. No statistically significant difference was 
observed between the len/D and pbo/D treatment arms in OS as of 23 Oct 2008 based on the 
unstratified log rank test (primary analysis method). However, it should be noted that patients in the 
pbo/D treatment arm received, after study discontinuation, alternative therapies, including 
lenalidomide -based therapies. 
The lack of estimation of OS due to too short follow up time makes the results of SWOG S0232 study 
less informative than expected. Benefit in terms of PFS is not yet confirmed by an advantage in OS. 
TTP 
As of the date of study unblinding (11 May 2007), TTP was significantly longer in the len/D treatment 
arm than in the pbo/D treatment arm (p = 0.0007, unstratified log rank test). Based on the hazard 
rate ratio (0.302), patients in the pbo/D treatment arm were approximately 3.3 times as likely as 
those in the len/D treatment arm to progress at any time during the treatment period. 
First-line therapy in MM differs whether patients are candidates to transplant or not but SWOG S0232 
study included mixed population as regards transplant status.  
In the claimed indication (NDMM), lenalidomide is not proposed in combination with dexamethasone. 
Lenalidomide dosage in SWOG study was higher (25 mg) than the one proposed for NDMM whatever 
the scheme is.  
1.4.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Statistically significant difference in terms of PFS in favour of treatment using lenalidomide alone or in 
combination has been shown in pivotal and supportive studies in the different settings 
(induction+maintenance in TNE population or maintenance in TE population). However, in both 
populations, the duration of maintenance phase was not justified. 
In the TNE population 
In MM015, lenalidomide was studied as part of combination during induction and as monotherapy 
during maintenance. PFS was significantly longer in arm MPR+R than arm MPp+p (HR=0.395 (0.278, 
0.560), p < 0.001, two-sided unstratified Log-rank test). A lower percentage of patients in arm MPR+R 
experienced disease progression during the double-blind treatment phase than those in arm MPp+p 
(34% versus 60%, respectively). 
With regard to baseline age stratification subgroups, there was a highly significant PFS advantage in 
arm MPR+R as compared with arm MPp+p in patients ≤ 75 years old, whereas no difference in PFS 
was observed between arms MPR+R and MPp+p in the > 75 years subgroup. This suggested that in 
combination with MP, Revlimid provided a better advantage to patients 65-75 years old. This justified 
that the Applicant only pursued an indication in patients aged ≤ 75 years. 
MPR induction demonstrated more effective tumour volume debulking than MP as evidenced by a 
significant increase in overall response rate and a tripling of the rate of CR/VGPR responses. This 
confirmed the contribution of lenalidomide to induction in the MPR+R regimen. 
Considering that for the primary comparison (MPR+R vs MPp+p), the risk reduction in 
progression/death is 60%, a 51% risk reduction in progression/death in the MPR+R versus MPR+p 
comparison indicated that lenalidomide maintenance contributes to a large part of the overall PFS 
benefit of the MPR+R regimen. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 39/50
 
 
 
 
The primary comparison Arm MPR+R versus Arm MPp+p, in the ≤75 years of age group showed a 
trend in OS benefit in favour of lenalidomide but this gain was not statistically significant. 
Acknowledging the limits of cross-trial comparisons, other novel agents like bortezomib or thalidomide 
in association with MP exhibited, in a similar setting, a lesser gain in PFS than MPR+R but a statistically 
prolonged survival. There is no confirmation or invalidation that the lack of significance of the HR for 
overall survival in MM 015 study is mainly due to the identified safety risk occurrence of second 
primary malignancies causing death. As a result, the only benefit of MPR+R combination may be to 
postpone progression. 
Long-term outcomes, including overall survival, might be impacted based on the imbalance of patients 
in second-line therapy and the crossover effect of lenalidomide in second-line after placebo treatment. 
When assessing PFS on second line therapy, lenalidomide was less effective in the patients who 
received second-line lenalidomide after lenalidomide maintenance. So, patients proposed to be treated 
with lenalidomide as first line will not get the opportunity to be treated with the same agent as second 
line therapy.  
In the TE population: 
Patients who had only achieved a PR/SD after ASCT (40% of the population in the IFM 2005-02 study 
and > 60% of the population in the CALGB 100104 study) benefited earlier and to a greater extent 
from lenalidomide maintenance than those who had already achieved a CR/VGPR. As stratification on 
post transplant response was planned by protocol, subgroup analyses on stratum were allowed. 
Patients who achieved PR/SD post-transplant may benefit to a greater extent of lenalidomide 
maintenance than those who had already achieved a CR/VGPR. 
Patients in CALGB study did not receive 2 courses of lenalidomide consolidation, as in the IFM 2005-02 
study. PFS improvements were nevertheless in the same range (respectively 65% and 50%). The 
consolidation step did not enhance the gain in PFS and is of no benefit. 
No statistically significant prolongation of OS was shown with lenalidomide maintenance.  
1.4.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Clinical benefit in terms of PFS is indubitable. Efficacy analyses by subgroups have identified 
subpopulations that may, in a greater extent, benefit from lenalidomide as induction+maintenance in 
TNE population or maintenance in TE population. However, the duration of maintenance phase until 
progression was not justified. 
Given the safety profile reported in the studies (see clinical safety section), the lack of benefit in OS is 
a major deficiency. As a consequence, a gain in PFS (as primary endpoint) needs to be confirmed by a 
benefit in overall survival. 
In the TNE population, the lack of benefit in OS for MPR+R is of particular concern since other 
combinations like MPT or MPB, compared to MP, are associated with high statistically significant 
differences in OS (study IFM 99 06, MPT vs. MP (HR 0.59 (0.46, 0.81)); study VISTA, MPV vs. MP (HR 
0.65 (0.51, 0.84)). 
The lack of significance of the HR for survival may be explained by the switch from placebo to 
lenalidomide but also by the occurrence of second primary malignancies. The extent of each cause 
remains unknown as there was no confirmation or invalidation that the lack of significance of the HR 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 40/50
 
 
 
 
 
for survival in MM 015 study is mainly due to the occurrence of second primary malignancies causing 
death. 
In the TE population where the life expectancy is per se longer, prolonged survival is even more 
expected but IFM 2005 02 study did not show statistically significant benefit in OS and CALGB 100104 
study was borderline statistically significant.  
Taken together, the provided data do not allow to clearly define the efficacy profile of Revlimid as 
induction and/or maintenance therapy in NDMM patients.  
1.5.  Clinical safety 
Safety results of the 2 ongoing main studies (CC-5013-MM-015 and IFM 2005-02) as well as safety 
data from the 3 supportive studies (CALGB 100104, ECOG E4A03 and SWOG S0232) constitute the 
safety dataset. The patient populations and treatment regimens were different in these studies, thus 
the safety data have not been integrated and all data were presented separately by study.  
A total of 2699 NDMM patients have been enrolled in these studies (1,361 on lenalidomide and 1,338 
on placebo). However, this safety analysis has been focused on the safety data from the two main 
studies. Therefore, the safety population analysed in this report included 1,063 patients (608 on 
lenalidomide and 455 on placebo). 
CC-5013-MM-015 Study (Interim analysis) 
Of the 459 newly diagnosed MM patients randomised, 4 did not receive the study drug. Finally, there 
were 150 MPR+R patients, 152 MPR+p patients, and 153 MPp+p patients. Overall, 24% were ≥ 75 
years. 
As of the 03 Oct 2011, there were a total of 22 patients still on-study and receiving lenalidomide 
treatment in Arm MPR+R. 
During induction phase, approximately twice as many Revlimid patients experienced AEs that led to 
dose reduction, or to discontinuation of treatment compared with placebo patients.  
A total of 152 patients (33%) experienced at least 1 SAE during the induction. SAEs reported more 
frequently in the lenalidomide arms arm were anemia, febrile neutropenia, and pneumonia.  
Globally, 38% of patients did not enter the maintenance phase: 40% of Revlimid patients and 33.7% 
of placebo patients. Importantly, 64% of the Revlimid patients ≥75 years discontinued lenalidomide 
versus 28.9% in the placebo arm. The reasons for discontinuation were mainly due to adverse events 
and withdraw of consents.  
Among the 15 fatal cases reported during induction, 13 (87%) were ≥ 75 years old, but the number of 
deaths was comparable between Lenalidomide arms and placebo arm. However, four cardiac deaths in 
lenalidomide patients occurred during the induction period versus one in placebo arm.  
During maintenance phase, 27.3% of MPR+R patients had ≥1 dose reduction versus 7.4% MPR+p and 
1.0% MPp+p patients. However, the median treatment duration was longer in MPR+R arm. The 
percentage of patients ≥75 years who discontinued study drug due to AE was similar between 
lenalidomide arms and placebo arm. Globally, the data regarding this maintenance monotherapy with 
Revlimid do not raise concern, and 128 patients entered the study phase as of the 01Dec2009 cut-off. 
During the double-blind treatment phase, at least 1 adverse event was reported for almost all patients 
in all 3 treatment arms. The frequency of patients with reported grade 3/4 adverse events was higher 
in Arms MPR+R (91.3%) and MPR+p (84.9%) than in Arm MPp+p (69.9%). The frequency of patients 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 41/50
 
 
 
 
with reported grade 5 adverse events during the induction and maintenance periods was similar in all 3 
treatment groups (7, 6 and 7, respectively). The frequency of patients with reported serious adverse 
events that the investigator considered related to lenalidomide/placebo was higher in Arms MPR+R 
(25.3%) and MPR+p (21.7%) than in Arm MPp+p (7.2%)  
The frequency of patients with reported adverse events leading to withdrawal of lenalidomide/placebo 
also was higher in patients in Arms MPR+R (17.3%) and MPR+p (15.8%) than in Arm MPp+p (9.2%). 
There were no deaths in patients while receiving lenalidomide maintenance therapy, whereas the 2 
deaths that occurred in patients while receiving placebo maintenance were due to disease progression. 
Most deaths occurred during the follow-up phase (>30 days after last dose of study medication), with 
the majority being due to disease progression. 
During the conduct of this study and evaluation of this application, a new safety event has emerged. 
As of 6 February 2011, 18 secondary primary malignancy (SPM) cases have been reported out of 302 
patients treated with Revlimid versus 5 out of 153 patients treated with placebo (6% in lenalidomide 
arm versus 1% in placebo arm).  
As of the 3 October 2011, the cumulative number and frequency (number of patients with ≥ 1 
SPM/total number of patients) of patients with secondary malignancies in each treatment arm, as well 
as the pooled lenalidomide-containing arms, of MM-015 is shown in the table below. 
Studies in the Transplant-eligible Population (Studies IFM 2005-02 and CALGB 100104) 
Overall, the tolerability of Revlimid in maintenance treatment in NDMM patients after SCT in study IFM 
2005-02 was similar to the known safety profile, notwithstanding the new safety signal regarding 
second primary malignancies that emerged during assessment of this application.   
At the time of the original submission, data from an interim analysis (IFM 2005-02) and an ASCO 
presentation (CALGB 100104) were available.  
As of January 14th, 2011, a total of 23 second malignancies were reported in study IFM 2005-02 of 
which 3 in the placebo arm (302 patients) and 20 in the lenalidomide arm (306 patients), i.e., the 36-
month follow-up cumulated incidences of second cancers are 1% in placebo arm versus 7% in 
lenalidomide arm (p < 0.0003). In contrast, the 18-month follow-up cumulated incidences were similar 
between the two arms.  
6 B-cell malignancies (2 ALL, 4 Hodgkin), which were all observed after at least 2 years of 
maintenance with Lenalidomide are of particular concern. With the overall imbalance observed in this 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 42/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
trial and the fact that a significant number of Cases (esp. B-cell malignancies) were observed after 2 
years of lenalidomide exposure. The DMC reviewed the data and noted that there was a higher 
incidence of second cancers in the lenalidomide arm compared with placebo, including AML/MDS 5 
versus 2 ; AL 2 versus 0; Hodgkin disease 4 versus 0 and solid tumors excluding basal cell skin 
cancers 6 versus 1. Overall second cancers are higher, 20 versus 3 (excluding basal cell 17 versus 3). 
AML/MDS deaths were higher 5 versus 1. As a consequence of the DMC review, the IFM 2005-02 study 
was discontinued by its sponsor. 
The most recent data cutoffs for secondary malignancies were 7 October 2011 for the IFM 2005-02 
study and 17 Aug 2011 for the CALGB 100104 study. As of the data cutoff for the 2 transplant-eligible 
studies, a total of 225 patients died in the study (108 in the lenalidomide-based regimens arms and 
117 in the control arms). Of these, 25 have died who were diagnosed with an invasive SPM during the 
course of the study (18 patients in the lenalidomide-based regimens arms and 7 in control arms). 
1.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall the tolerability of Revlimid as single-agent maintenance treatment in NDMM patients non 
eligible to SCT appeared acceptable. However, occurrence of secondary invasive malignancies was of 
major concern. 
At the start of the evaluation, a new safety concern emerged, where cases of second primary 
malignancies occurred in the pivotal trials MM 015 and IFM 2005-02. The cases reported 
haematological malignancies (AML, MDS, T-cell ALL, B-cell malignancies and Hodgkin) and non 
haematological malignancies (skin cancers and solid tumours). 
The MAH was consequently requested to provide a thorough safety review of all second primary 
malignancies, including haematological and non haematological, received for lenalidomide in multiple 
myeloma, from clinical trials, post-marketing reports, and the literature, with an emphasis on 
randomised trials.  
As of 6th February 2011, 67 secondary cancers, were reported out the 839 patients treated in the 
pooled lenalidomide treatment arms compared with 13 second cancers out the 684 patients treated in 
the pooled placebo arms (i.e. 8% versus 1.9%, , p < 0.0001). 
IFM 2005-02:         
CC-5013-MM015:  
CALGB 100104:     
7% in lenalidomide arm versus 1% in placebo arm 
6% in lenalidomide arm versus 1% in placebo arm 
8.2% in lenalidomide arm versus 2.1% in placebo arm 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 43/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Based on the review of cases of secondary malignancies in NDMM patients which concluded that on the 
basis of preliminary data, it appeared that the rate of second primary cancers, including invasive 
cancers and non melanoma skin cancers, in Revlimid arms was 4-fold increased as compared with 
placebo arms.  
Therefore, the benefit risk ratio of Revlimid in the approved indication was reviewed in the context of a 
procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. On 23 September 2011, having assessed 
all available information from studies and post-marketing data in the authorised indication on the risk 
of SPMs, as well as data from clinical trials in unauthorised indications, the Committee concluded that 
the benefits continue to outweigh the risks and that as a consequence the benefit/risk balance of 
lenalidomide in the approved indication was positive under normal conditions of use with update of the 
product information to include a new warning included in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
(EMEA/H/C/717/A20/0048, Commission Decision on 13 January 2012). A Direct Healthcare 
Professional Communication was also agreed with this respect. 
As of the most recent cutoff dates, 63 patients out of 825 patients treated with len-containing regimen 
had a secondary invasive cancer versus 19 placebo treated patients (i.e., 7.63% versus 2.8%). A 
lessening of the difference in the incidence between lenalidomide-treated patients and placebo-treated 
patients is claimed by the MAH. However, 5 placebo-treated patients had received a salvage therapy 
with lenalidomide and one had received thalidomide within a compatible timeframe before the 
occurrence the second invasive cancer. Furthermore, at least 2 additional Placebo-randomised patients 
(CALGB110532 and CALGB108711) had received lenalidomide for the induction prior to initiate 
placebo. Finally, at least 7 out of the 19 placebo patients have been exposed to lenalidomide with a 
compatible time frame before the occurrence of their second invasive cancer.  
Taking into account only lenalidomide exposure, 70/825 patients exposed to lenalidomide with a 
compatible timeframe had a secondary invasive cancer versus 12/665 placebo randomised patients 
who never received lenalidomide (i.e., 8.48% versus 1.8%). However, the percentage of placebo 
patients who received lenalidomide before randomisation is likely underestimated since the previous 
chemotherapies are not always documented in CIOMS. The MAH should have addressed this important 
issue, since previous exposure and/or salvage therapy with len has likely contributed to the lessening 
of the imbalance between the two groups. 
The ITT analysis of pooled data shows that lenalidomide is associated with a 2.75 increased risk of 
secondary invasive cancers. However, in per protocol analysis, taking into account only lenalidomide 
exposure with a compatible time frame with the occurrence of the second invasive cancer, 
lenalidomide is associated with a 4.7-fold increased risk. 
Of note, at least 8 out of the 12 placebo-treated patients have been exposed to lenalidomide with a 
compatible time frame before the occurrence of their non-melanoma skin cancer. Finally 23/825 
patients exposed to lenalidomide had a second non invasive cancer versus 4/665 placebo randomised 
patients (i.e., 2.78% versus 0.6%). 
The competing risk analysis (based on Gray’s method) with death as the competing risk was performed 
on the pooled NDMM population (Studies MM-015, IFM 2005-02, and CALGB 100104) using the most 
recent data cutoff dates. These data continue to indicate that the occurrence of SPMs following 
lenalidomide therapy in this setting is higher than the occurrence with placebo therapy. In this context, 
even a trend to a stabilisation of occurrence of invasive SPMs over time is not reassuring.  
Univariate and multivariate analyses were repeated using the updated data, and similar findings were 
observed. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 44/50
 
 
 
 
Neither the cumulative dose of lenalidomide nor the duration of lenalidomide treatment was 
- 
found to be associated with an increased incidence of invasive SPM in the multivariate analyses. 
One variable associated with a lower risk of SPM at a significance level of p < 0.05, was 
- 
attainment of a CR at start or during maintenance therapy (HR = 0.258; p = 0.041).  
- 
Increasing age was associated with an increased risk of SPM (HR = 1.077; p = 0.027).  
Additionally, there was 1 other variable with an apparent trend toward an increased risk of 
- 
SPM, including increasing time from ASCT to first dose of study treatment (HR = 1.007; p = 0.060). 
- 
An additional analysis was conducted on the cumulative incidence of SPMs using lenalidomide 
treatment duration as a dichotomized variable (lenalidomide treatment for ≤ 2 years versus > 2 years) 
in the transplant-eligible studies. The incidence rate of invasive SPMs was similar for patients who 
received lenalidomide therapy for ≤ 2years or > 2 years. 
Eight patients in the IFM 2005-02 study developed B-cell malignancies including B-ALL (3 patients), 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (1 patient), and Hodgkin’s disease (4 patients). Of these, 5 patients had 
received either an additional high-dose chemotherapy/transplant procedure (3 patients -2 Hodgkin’s 
disease and 1 B-ALL) or additional DCEP (dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, etoposide, cisplatin; 2 
patients - 1 Hodgkin’s disease and 1 B-ALL) chemotherapy following standard induction therapy prior 
to initiating maintenance therapy with single-agent lenalidomide.  
In addition, 4 of the 5 patients from the IFM 2005-02 and CALGB 100104 studies who developed 
Hodgkin’s disease during lenalidomide maintenance therapy were found to have a reactivated Epstein-
Barr virus (EBV) status (EBV positive).  
Among the 10 patients diagnosed with a B-cell malignancy, 3 received ≤ 2 years of lenalidomide 
treatment (2 have died) and 7 received > 2 years of lenalidomide treatment.  
1.5.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Occurrence of secondary invasive malignancies is a major concern in particular in the applied 
indication. For the time being, no minimization of the risk of second invasive cancers can be discussed 
since no risk factors have been identified. Neither the cumulative dose of lenalidomide nor the duration 
of lenalidomide treatment was found to be associated with an increased incidence of invasive SPM in 
the multivariate analyses.  
1.6.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  was  of  the  opinion  that  the 
proposed risk minimisation activities were not able to reduce the risks to an acceptable level. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 45/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further to the withdrawal of the proposed indication, the RMP remains consequently unchanged. 
2.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Clinical data as well as in vitro dissolution profile were submitted and considered acceptable to 
demonstrate bioequivalence and support the new 2.5 and 7.5 mg strengths. 
Pivotal studies (CC-5013-MM-015, IFM 2005-02 and CALGB 100104) intended to show the benefit of 
maintenance in 2 different settings for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Study CC-
5013-MM-015 was conducted in elderly patients (≥ 65 years old) who are not eligible for ASCT (TNE 
patients), to show the benefit of maintenance after 9 cycles of induction with MP +/- R. Studies IFM 
2005-02 and CALGB 100104 were conducted in the younger population (respectively < 65, ≤ 70 years 
old), to show the benefit of maintenance after ASCT (TE patients). 
In the TNE population: 
In study MM015, PFS was significantly longer in arm MPR+R than arm MPp+p (HR=0.395 (0.278, 
0.560), p < 0.001, two-sided unstratified Log-rank test), corresponding to a median difference of 
about 80 weeks (136 w. vs. 56 w). A lower percentage of patients in arm MPR+R experienced disease 
progression during the double-blind treatment phase than those in arm MPp+p (34% versus 60%, 
respectively). 
With regard to baseline age stratification subgroups, there was a highly significant PFS advantage in 
arm MPR+R as compared with arm MPp+p in patients ≤ 75 years old, whereas no difference in PFS was 
observed between arms MPR+R and MPp+p in the > 75 years subgroup. This suggested that in 
combination with MP, Revlimid provided a better advantage to patients 65-75 years old. 
MPR induction demonstrated more effective tumour debulking than MP as evidenced by a significant 
increase in overall response rate and a tripling of the rate of CR/VGPR responses. This confirmed the 
contribution of lenalidomide to induction in the MPR+R regimen. 
Considering that for the primary comparison (MPR+R vs MPp+p) the risk reduction in 
progression/death is 60%, a 51% risk reduction in progression/death in the MPR+R versus MPR+p 
comparison indicated that lenalidomide maintenance contributes to a large part of the overall PFS 
benefit of the MPR+R regimen. 
In the TE population: 
The use of lenalidomide maintenance post-ASCT was associated with a highly statistically significant 
and clinically meaningful improvement of PFS in the IFM 2005-02 and CALGB 100104 studies. The 
reduction in risk of progression or death was respectively 50% and 65%. This, however, refers to low 
event rates in the experimental arm (34% in IFM, 21% in CALGB). 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
In the TNE population: 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 46/50
 
 
 
 
 
In the TNE population, a fourth arm MPp+R in the pivotal trial MM015 would have been of interest to 
assess the contribution of lenalidomide in the maintenance phase only.  
Overall survival data are still immature and did not provide the reassurance actually warranted to 
exclude a relevant negative effect (HR 0.9 95%CI 0.6; 1.3), especially when put into context of 
secondary invasive malignancies. Moreover, the lack of benefit in OS for MPR+R is of particular 
concern since other combinations like MPT or MPB, compared to MP, prolong OS.  
In the TE population: 
The lack of control during consolidation makes evaluation of interest of this phase difficult as both arms 
in the IFM 2005-02 study received two courses of full-dose lenalidomide consolidation therapy after 
ASCT. Moreover, lenalidomide maintenance in CALGB 100104 study provided as high improvement of 
PFS in a similar population without any prior consolidation. The value of the consolidation step was not 
demonstrated. In addition, the immaturity of PFS data, especially in the CALGB 100104 study, 
contributes to the overall uncertainty.  
In the TE population where the life expectancy is per se longer, prolonged survival is even more 
expected but none of the two studies (IFM 2005 02 and CALGB 100104) showed statistically significant 
benefit in OS.  
In the IFM 2005-02 study, with event rates of 68/307 (22%) in placebo arm and 76/307 (25%) in 
lenalidomide arm, the reported HR is 1.12 (85% CI 0.8; 1.6). This is not reassuring as regards 
putative negative effects.   
In the CALGB 100104 study a formally significant survival benefit was demonstrated (HR=0.6, 
p=0.03). However, as the vast majority of the patients are expected to succumb to the underlying 
disease, with event rates of 21% (49/229) in placebo arm and 14% (32/231) in lenalidomide arm, no 
claims related to “statistical significance” are considered well founded. Altogether and at this stage, in 
the TE study also, reassurance as regards absence of putative negative effect on survival is a 
remaining major issue. 
Overall, the lack of benefit in OS is a major limitation to the observed impressive PFS superiority and 
this contrast must find an explanation. In addition, relevance to patients of an isolated PFS benefit is 
doubtful. 
The neutral effect of lenalidomide on OS could correspond to contrasted effects on efficacy (such a 
prolonged PFS would logically result in a prolonged OS) and on safety (the observed increase in 
secondary malignancies may at least in part suppress this advantage). 
Another explanation could be found in a high rate of cross-over from placebo to lenalidomide in the 
control group at progression. This cross-over is nothing else than the application of an approved 
indication.  
The two explanations are not mutually exclusive. 
If a long-term negative effect of lenalidomide is accepted to explain the neutral effect on OS, this 
would mean that this important safety concern could affect mainly patients with a relatively long life 
expectancy. This would result in recommending the use of lenalidomide at the latest stages of the 
disease. The benefit of moving indication from second line to NDMM becomes uncertain. 
If cross-over is the main explanation, the logical consequence is that the effect of lenalidomide on 
survival is the same when the drug is used early (NDMM at maintenance) or later (at relapse). This 
would question the benefit of an early treatment. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 47/50
 
 
 
 
If we consider the direct benefit to patients, any significant delay in progression is expected to provide 
a delay in symptoms (re)appearance, to allow a longer free-of-treatment period and to prolong 
survival. There is no strong demonstration in this application that maintenance with lenalidomide would 
alleviate the symptomatic burden of the disease. Patients submitted to maintenance therapy are not 
free of treatment and even receive earlier a therapy that would otherwise be prescribed only after 
relapse. For patients that would be treated with another regimen at relapse, the analysis of the time 
from second-line to third-line AMT is limited (only qualitative data, limited number of events).  So it 
cannot be stated that lenalidomide maintenance therapy may not adversely affect the activity of the 
second-line antimyeloma therapy other than lenalidomide. Survival does not appear to be affected by 
maintenance. It results that the benefit of a prolonged PFS without any effect on OS is uncertain in this 
context. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
In TNE population, patients >75 years comprised about 25% of the randomised patients in each of the 
treatment arms. Patients in this age group did not tolerate the 3-drug (MPR) regimen as well as they 
did the standard 2-drug (MP) standard therapy. This led to earlier and more frequent dose reductions 
and treatment discontinuations, which had an adverse impact on treatment outcome.  
In both TNE and TE populations, the major safety risk is occurrence of secondary invasive 
malignancies. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Regarding secondary invasive malignancies, neither the cumulative dose of lenalidomide nor the 
duration of lenalidomide treatment was found to be associated with an increased incidence of invasive 
SPM in the univariate or multivariate analyses. Competing risk analyses based on Gray’s method were 
performed on the pooled transplant studies (IFM 2005-02 and CALGB 100104) to examine the 
incidence of invasive SPM over time with death as the competing risk. Despite the apparent lessening 
of the difference in the incidence between the lenalidomide- and placebo-treated patients, there is still 
an increased risk of SPMs with lenalidomide (10-15% of deaths are due to SPMs).  As a matter of fact, 
at least 7 out of the 19 placebo patients have been exposed to lenalidomide with a compatible time 
frame before the occurrence of their second invasive cancer. The pooled data ITT analysis shows that 
lenalidomide is associated with a 2.75 increased risk of second invasive cancers. However, in per 
protocol analysis, taking into account only lenalidomide exposure with a compatible time frame with 
the occurrence of the second invasive cancer, lenalidomide is associated with, at least, a 4.7-fold 
increased risk of secondary invasive malignancies.. 
There is still no justification for the duration of lenalidomide maintenance until progression. Taking into 
account the risk of occurrence of secondary invasive malignancies and the lack of benefit in OS, 
prolonged exposure to lenalidomide may be detrimental in both populations (TNE and TE). 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Multiple myeloma is a highly symptomatic disease in stages of progression. Therefore delay in 
progression is per se valuable to the patient. Normally, a delay in progression would be expected to 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 48/50
 
 
 
 
result in improved survival; if not the treatment effect is diluted due to long survival after progression 
or due to negative effects on the activity of next-line therapies.  
Available anti-cancer therapies are in most cases associated with tolerability issues and severe and 
sometimes fatal adverse reaction, whether due to infections, vascular events or secondary 
malignancies.   
In light of updated results with recent cut off dates, efficacy of lenalidomide in either induction 
+maintenance for transplant non eligible myeloma patients or in maintenance for transplant eligible 
patients has been confirmed. 
Subpopulations that may, in a greater extent, benefit from lenalidomide have been identified. This 
efficacy is however not clearly understood since impressive effect to prevent progression does not 
result in survival advantages. 
The risk of occurrence of secondary invasive malignancies has not been fully appreciated. Some tracks 
regarding risk factors (duration of lenalidomide exposure and cumulative dose) have been investigated 
but ruled out. The Applicant has not explored any other potential risk factor. Still this major risk has 
not been discarded. 
Benefit-risk balance 
An undoubtedly clinically relevant delay in PFS has been documented both in treatment naïve patients 
unsuitable for stem cell transplantation (ASCT) and as maintenance therapy after ASCT. There are 
some uncertainties related to the relative immaturity of PFS data in all studies, but major changes are 
considered unlikely. 
With respect to tolerability and toxicity, including secondary malignancies, the observed profile would 
be acceptable if a clear survival benefit was demonstrated. This, however, is not the case; data are not 
even reassuring from the perspective of excluding with reasonable certainty negative effects. Whether 
this is due to data immaturity or actual negative effects of maintenance therapy on the activity of 
next-line therapies remain at this stage speculative.  
The impressive efficacy of lenalidomide to delay progression is difficult to translate in terms of 
unequivocal benefit to the patients. A favourable effect on symptoms is not established. Further 
therapies may be delayed, but this is obtained by maintenance of a toxic treatment and the advantage 
is far from clear. Finally, there is no OS advantage which considerably limits the relevance of the PFS 
advantage. This neutral OS effect may reflect an equivalent efficacy of maintenance and treatment at 
progression (if true, this would favour a delayed treatment) or a negative effect of lenalidomide on 
cancer risk (which would justify delaying lenalidomide as much as possible not to expose patients at 
relatively good prognosis). Results taken from other clinical studies should be taken into consideration 
when drawing the benefit risk balance of Revlimid in the TNE population: Alternative options including 
Bortezomib and Thalidomide are associated with high statistically significant differences in OS (Mateos, 
2010; Facon, 2007). The lack of significance of the HR for survival in all pivotal studies could be mainly 
due to the occurrence of second primary malignancies causing death. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
On the basis of the data provided at this timepoint, the suspected and established risks affect all 
populations included in the sought indication(s), especially when life expectancy is longer. There is no 
efficacy marker that could identify, in the submitted application for NDMM, a group in whom the 
benefit would make the risk worth taking. Revlimid remains however an efficient drug in multiple 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 49/50
 
 
 
 
myeloma, but its use is probably safer and at least equally beneficial when it is used for later stages of 
the disease, e.g. as late as in the already approved second-line indication. 
There is no indication that maintenance could offer any benefit as compared to the already accepted 
indication for Revlimid (as a second line at progression). Considering the concerns related to a causal 
relationship with new invasive malignancies, lenalidomide should be more easily recommended at late 
stages of the disease. 
As a consequence, mature overall survival data and further follow-up were needed in order to conclude 
on the benefit–risk of Revlimid in the proposed indication. Subsequent to this CHMP conclusion, the 
MAH has decided to withdraw the new indication part of this application. 
However, clinical as well as in vitro dissolution profile data demonstrate bioequivalence to authorised 
strengths and support the new 2.5 and 7.5 mg strengths which can be used in the current indication 
and future developments. 
3.  Recommendations 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP by consensus is of the opinion that Revlimid is not similar to Thalidomide Celgene within the 
meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200. See appendix 1. 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Revlimid 2.5mg and 7.5 mg hard capsules in combination with 
dexamethasone for the treatment of multiple myeloma patients who have received at least one prior 
therapy is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the extension of the marketing 
authorisation subject to the conditions of the marketing authorisation. 
Revlimid 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 50/50
 
 
 
 
 
 
