EMA/780598/2022 
EMEA/H/C/001110 
Revolade (eltrombopag) 
An overview of Revolade and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Revolade and what is it used for? 
Revolade is a medicine that is used for the treatment of:  
• 
• 
• 
primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), a disease in which the patient’s immune system destroys 
platelets (components in the blood that help it to clot). Patients with ITP have low platelet counts 
in the blood (thrombocytopenia) and are at risk of bleeding. Revolade is used in patients from 1 
year of age for whom treatment with medicines such as corticosteroids or immunoglobulins has not 
worked. In children and adolescents, the medicine is used when they have had the disease for at 
least 6 months;  
thrombocytopenia in adults with chronic (long-term) hepatitis C, a liver disease caused by the 
hepatitis C virus. Revolade is used when the thrombocytopenia is too severe to allow interferon-
based therapy (a type of treatment for hepatitis C);  
acquired severe aplastic anaemia (a disease in which the bone marrow does not make enough 
blood cells or platelets). Revolade is used in adult patients whose disease is not controlled by 
immunosuppressive therapy (medicines that lower the body’s immune defences) and cannot 
receive haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (where the patient's bone marrow is replaced by 
stem cells from a donor to form new bone marrow).  
Revolade contains the active substance eltrombopag.  
How is Revolade used? 
Revolade is available as tablets and as a powder to prepare a suspension (a liquid) to be taken by 
mouth. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and 
supervised by a doctor who has experience in treating blood diseases or chronic hepatitis C and its 
complications.  
The dose depends on the patient’s age and the disease for which Revolade is being used; it is adjusted 
as needed to maintain the appropriate platelet level.   
For more information about using Revolade, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Revolade work? 
In the body, a hormone called ‘thrombopoietin’ stimulates the production of platelets by attaching to 
certain receptors (targets) in the bone marrow. The active substance in Revolade, eltrombopag, also 
attaches to and stimulates the thrombopoietin receptors. This increases the production of platelets, 
improving platelet counts.  
What benefits of Revolade have been shown in studies? 
ITP in adults  
For the treatment of ITP in adults, Revolade was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two 
main studies involving a total of 311 patients who had previously been treated, but those treatments 
had not worked or the disease had come back.  
Revolade was more effective than placebo: in the first study, 59% of the patients who took Revolade 
(43 out of 73) achieved a platelet count of at least 50,000 per microlitre (which is considered adequate 
to prevent bleeding complications) after 6 weeks of treatment, compared with 16% of those who took 
placebo (6 out of 37). In the second study, the 135 patients taking Revolade were around 8 times 
more likely to reach the target platelet count of between 50,000 and 400,000 per microlitre during the 
6 months of treatment than  the 62 patients who were given placebo.  
A separate analysis of these data, in addition to data from another study, examined if the response to 
the medicine differed depending on when adult patients were diagnosed before they started treatment. 
In almost 400 patients with ITP, the number of patients who achieved a platelet count of at least 
50,000 per microlitre after 6 weeks of treatment was generally comparable between patients 
diagnosed less than 6 months and those diagnosed more than 6 months before starting treatment. 
Data from scientific literature supported these findings.  
ITP in children  
In children with ITP, Revolade was more effective than placebo in one main study involving 92 children 
between 1 and 17 years of age who had previously been treated for ITP. This study lasted 13 weeks 
and looked at the proportion of patients whose platelet count had increased to at least 50,000 per 
microlitre for at least 6 out of 8 weeks, between week 5 to 12 of the study in the absence of rescue 
medication. This occurred in around 40% of those taking Revolade (25 out of 63) compared with 
around 3% (1 out of 29) of those who took placebo. An extension of the study found that Revolade 
was effective at maintaining adequate levels of platelets in the long term.  
Thrombocytopenia associated with hepatitis C 
For the treatment of thrombocytopenia associated with hepatitis C, two main studies involving a total 
of 1,441 adults were carried out. These compared Revolade with placebo for allowing the starting and 
maintenance of antiviral treatment in patients with hepatitis C whose platelet count was initially too 
low to allow starting such treatment (less than 75,000 per microlitre). In both studies, the main 
measure of effectiveness was the number of patients whose blood tests did not show any sign of 
hepatitis C virus 6 months after the end of treatment.  
In these two studies, a higher proportion of patients who took Revolade tested negative for hepatitis C, 
compared with those who took placebo (23% versus 14% in the first study, and 19% versus 13% in 
the second study).  
Revolade (eltrombopag)  
EMA/780598/2022  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
Severe aplastic anaemia 
For the treatment of severe aplastic anaemia, Revolade was studied in 43 patients and was not 
compared with any other medicine. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients 
who responded to Revolade (whose platelet, red or white blood cell count remained above pre-set 
levels) after 12 or 16 weeks of treatment.  
In this study, 40% of patients (17 out of 43) responded to treatment after 12 weeks, and in 65% of 
them (11 out of 17) the platelet count either increased by at least 20,000 per microliter or was stable 
without a need for blood transfusions. Preliminary data from a supportive study are consistent with the 
result of the main study, with 46% of patients responding to treatment after 12 weeks.  
What are the risks associated with Revolade? 
The most common side effects with Revolade in adults with ITP (which may affect more than 1 in 10 
people) are nausea (feeling sick), diarrhoea and abnormal blood levels of certain liver enzymes. The 
most important serious side effects are liver problems and thromboembolic complications (problems 
with clots in blood vessels). In children with ITP, the most common side effects include nose and throat 
infection, cough, fever, pain in the belly or in the mouth and throat, toothache and runny nose.  
In adults with severe aplastic anaemia the most common side effects include headache, dizziness, 
cough, pain in the belly or in the mouth and throat, nausea, diarrhoea, joint pain, pain in limbs, 
tiredness, fever and abnormal blood levels of certain liver enzymes.  
In patients with thrombocytopenia and advanced chronic hepatitis C who are treated with interferon 
and Revolade, the most common side effects include headache, anaemia (low red blood cell counts), 
decreased appetite, cough, nausea, diarrhoea, high levels of bilirubin in the blood, hair loss, itching, 
muscle pain, fever, tiredness, flu-like illness, weakness, chills and swelling (because of build-up of 
water in the body). Important serious side effects are liver problems and thromboembolic 
complications.  
For the full list of restrictions and side effects of Revolade, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Revolade authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Revolade’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Revolade? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Revolade have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Revolade are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Revolade are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Revolade 
Revolade received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 11 March 2010.  
Further information on Revolade can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Revolade.  
Revolade (eltrombopag)  
EMA/780598/2022  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 10-2022.  
Revolade (eltrombopag)  
EMA/780598/2022  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
