ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 12.5 mg eltrombopag. 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 25 mg eltrombopag. 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 50 mg eltrombopag. 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 75 mg eltrombopag. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
White, round, biconvex film-coated tablet (approximately 7.9 mm in diameter) debossed with ‘GS 
MZ1’ and ‘12.5’ on one side. 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
White, round, biconvex film-coated tablet (approximately 10.3 mm in diameter) debossed with ‘GS 
NX3’ and ‘25’ on one side. 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Brown, round, biconvex film-coated tablet (approximately 10.3 mm in diameter) debossed with ‘GS 
UFU’ and ‘50’ on one side. 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
Pink, round, biconvex film-coated tablet (approximately 10.3 mm in diameter) debossed with ‘GS 
FFS’ and ‘75’ on one side. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Revolade is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins) (see sections 4.2 and 
5.1). 
Revolade is indicated for the treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year and above with primary 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) lasting 6 months or longer from diagnosis and who are refractory to 
other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins) (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Revolade is indicated in adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection for the treatment 
of thrombocytopenia, where the degree of thrombocytopenia is the main factor preventing the 
initiation or limiting the ability to maintain optimal interferon-based therapy (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Revolade is indicated in adult patients with acquired severe aplastic anaemia (SAA) who were either 
refractory to prior immunosuppressive therapy or heavily pretreated and are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Eltrombopag treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician who is 
experienced in the treatment of haematological diseases or the management of chronic hepatitis C and 
its complications. 
Posology 
Eltrombopag dosing requirements must be individualised based on the patient’s platelet counts. The 
objective of treatment with eltrombopag should not be to normalise platelet counts. 
The powder for oral suspension may lead to higher eltrombopag exposure than the tablet formulation 
(see section 5.2). When switching between the tablet and the powder for oral suspension formulations, 
platelet counts should be monitored weekly for 2 weeks. 
Immune (primary) thrombocytopenia 
The lowest dose of eltrombopag to achieve and maintain a platelet count ≥50 000/µl should be used. 
Dose adjustments are based upon the platelet count response. Eltrombopag must not be used to 
normalise platelet counts. In clinical studies, platelet counts generally increased within 1 to 2 weeks 
after starting eltrombopag and decreased within 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation. 
Adults and paediatric population aged 6 to 17 years 
The recommended starting dose of eltrombopag is 50 mg once daily. For patients of East-/Southeast-
Asian ancestry, eltrombopag should be initiated at a reduced dose of 25 mg once daily (see 
section 5.2). 
Paediatric population aged 1 to 5 years 
The recommended starting dose of eltrombopag is 25 mg once daily. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring and dose adjustment 
After initiating eltrombopag, the dose must be adjusted to achieve and maintain a platelet count 
≥50 000/µl as necessary to reduce the risk for bleeding. A daily dose of 75 mg must not be exceeded. 
Clinical haematology and liver tests should be monitored regularly throughout therapy with 
eltrombopag and the dose regimen of eltrombopag modified based on platelet counts as outlined in 
Table 1. During therapy with eltrombopag full blood counts (FBCs), including platelet count and 
peripheral blood smears, should be assessed weekly until a stable platelet count (≥50 000/µl for at 
least 4 weeks) has been achieved. FBCs including platelet counts and peripheral blood smears should 
be obtained monthly thereafter. 
Table 1 
Dose adjustments of eltrombopag in ITP patients 
Platelet count 
<50 000/µl following at least 
2 weeks of therapy 
50 000/µl to 150 000/µl 
>150 000/µl to 250 000/µl 
>250 000/µl 
Dose adjustment or response 
Increase daily dose by 25 mg to a maximum of 75 mg/day*. 
Use lowest dose of eltrombopag and/or concomitant ITP 
treatment to maintain platelet counts that avoid or reduce 
bleeding. 
Decrease the daily dose by 25 mg. Wait 2 weeks to assess the 
effects of this and any subsequent dose adjustments♦. 
Stop eltrombopag; increase the frequency of platelet monitoring 
to twice weekly. 
Once the platelet count is ≤ 100 000/µl, reinitiate therapy at a 
daily dose reduced by 25 mg. 
* 
♦ 
For patients taking 25 mg eltrombopag once every other day, increase dose to 25 mg once daily. 
For patients taking 25 mg eltrombopag once daily, consideration should be given to dosing at 
12.5 mg once daily or alternatively a dose of 25 mg once every other day. 
Eltrombopag can be administered in addition to other ITP medicinal products. The dose regimen of 
concomitant ITP medicinal products should be modified, as medically appropriate, to avoid excessive 
increases in platelet counts during therapy with eltrombopag. 
It is necessary to wait for at least 2 weeks to see the effect of any dose adjustment on the patient’s 
platelet response prior to considering another dose adjustment. 
The standard eltrombopag dose adjustment, either decrease or increase, would be 25 mg once daily. 
Discontinuation 
Treatment with eltrombopag should be discontinued if the platelet count does not increase to a level 
sufficient to avoid clinically important bleeding after 4 weeks of eltrombopag therapy at 75 mg once 
daily. 
Patients should be clinically evaluated periodically and continuation of treatment should be decided on 
an individual basis by the treating physician. In non-splenectomised patients this should include 
evaluation relative to splenectomy. The reoccurrence of thrombocytopenia is possible upon 
discontinuation of treatment (see section 4.4). 
Chronic hepatitis C (HCV) associated thrombocytopenia 
When eltrombopag is given in combination with antivirals reference should be made to the full 
summary of product characteristics of the respective coadministered medicinal products for 
comprehensive details of relevant safety information or contraindications. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In clinical studies, platelet counts generally began to increase within 1 week of starting eltrombopag. 
The aim of treatment with eltrombopag should be to achieve the minimum level of platelet counts 
needed to initiate antiviral therapy, in adherence to clinical practice recommendations. During antiviral 
therapy, the aim of treatment should be to keep platelet counts at a level that prevents the risk of 
bleeding complications, normally around 50 000-75 000/µl. Platelet counts >75 000/µl should be 
avoided. The lowest dose of eltrombopag needed to achieve the targets should be used. Dose 
adjustments are based upon the platelet count response. 
Initial dose regimen 
Eltrombopag should be initiated at a dose of 25 mg once daily. No dosage adjustment is necessary for 
HCV patients of East-/Southeast-Asian ancestry or patients with mild hepatic impairment (see 
section 5.2). 
Monitoring and dose adjustment 
The dose of eltrombopag should be adjusted in 25 mg increments every 2 weeks as necessary to 
achieve the target platelet count required to initiate antiviral therapy. Platelet counts should be 
monitored every week prior to starting antiviral therapy. On initiation of antiviral therapy the platelet 
count may fall, so immediate eltrombopag dose adjustments should be avoided (see Table 2). 
During antiviral therapy, the dose of eltrombopag should be adjusted as necessary to avoid dose 
reductions of peginterferon due to decreasing platelet counts that may put patients at risk of bleeding 
(see Table 2). Platelet counts should be monitored weekly during antiviral therapy until a stable 
platelet count is achieved, normally around 50 000-75 000/µl. FBCs including platelet counts and 
peripheral blood smears should be obtained monthly thereafter. Dose reductions on the daily dose by 
25 mg should be considered if platelet counts exceed the required target. It is recommended to wait for 
2 weeks to assess the effects of this and any subsequent dose adjustments. 
A dose of 100 mg eltrombopag once daily must not be exceeded. 
Table 2 
Dose adjustments of eltrombopag in HCV patients during antiviral therapy 
Platelet count 
<50 000/µl following at least 
2 weeks of therapy 
≥50 000/µl to ≤100 000/µl 
>100 000/µl to ≤150 000/µl 
>150 000/µl 
Dose adjustment or response 
Increase daily dose by 25 mg to a maximum of 100 mg/day. 
Use lowest dose of eltrombopag as necessary to avoid dose 
reductions of peginterferon. 
Decrease the daily dose by 25 mg. Wait 2 weeks to assess the 
effects of this and any subsequent dose adjustments♦. 
Stop eltrombopag; increase the frequency of platelet monitoring to 
twice weekly. 
Once the platelet count is ≤100 000/µl, reinitiate therapy at a daily 
dose reduced by 25 mg*. 
* 
♦ 
For patients taking 25 mg eltrombopag once daily, consideration should be given to reinitiating 
dosing at 25 mg every other day. 
On initiation of antiviral therapy the platelet count may fall, so immediate eltrombopag dose 
reductions should be avoided. 
Discontinuation 
If after 2 weeks of eltrombopag therapy at 100 mg the required platelet level to initiate antiviral 
therapy is not achieved, eltrombopag should be discontinued. 
Eltrombopag treatment should be terminated when antiviral therapy is discontinued unless otherwise 
justified. Excessive platelet count responses or important liver test abnormalities also necessitate 
discontinuation. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Severe aplastic anaemia 
Initial dose regimen 
Eltrombopag should be initiated at a dose of 50 mg once daily. For patients of East-/Southeast-Asian 
ancestry, eltrombopag should be initiated at a reduced dose of 25 mg once daily (see section 5.2). The 
treatment should not be initiated when the patient has existing cytogenetic abnormalities of 
chromosome 7. 
Monitoring and dose adjustment 
Haematological response requires dose titration, generally up to 150 mg, and may take up to 16 weeks 
after starting eltrombopag (see section 5.1). The dose of eltrombopag should be adjusted in 50 mg 
increments every 2 weeks as necessary to achieve the target platelet count ≥50 000/µl. For patients 
taking 25 mg once daily, the dose should be increased to 50 mg daily before increasing the dose 
amount by 50 mg. A dose of 150 mg daily must not be exceeded. Clinical haematology and liver tests 
should be monitored regularly throughout therapy with eltrombopag and the dosage regimen of 
eltrombopag modified based on platelet counts as outlined in Table 3. 
Table 3 
Dose adjustments of eltrombopag in patients with severe aplastic anaemia 
Platelet count 
<50 000/µl following at least 
2 weeks of therapy 
50 000/µl to 150 000/µl 
>150 000/µl to 250 000/µl 
>250 000/µl 
Dose adjustment or response 
Increase daily dose by 50 mg to a maximum of 150 mg/day. 
For patients taking 25 mg once daily, increase the dose to 
50 mg daily before increasing the dose amount by 50 mg. 
Use lowest dose of eltrombopag to maintain platelet counts. 
Decrease the daily dose by 50 mg. Wait 2 weeks to assess the 
effects of this and any subsequent dose adjustments. 
Stop eltrombopag; for at least one week. 
Once the platelet count is ≤100 000/µl, reinitiate therapy at a 
daily dose reduced by 50 mg. 
Tapering for tri-lineage (white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets) responders 
For patients who achieve tri-lineage response, including transfusion independence, lasting at least 
8 weeks: the dose of eltrombopag may be reduced by 50%. 
If counts remain stable after 8 weeks at the reduced dose, then eltrombopag must be discontinued and 
blood counts monitored. If platelet counts drop to <30 000/µl, haemoglobin drops to < 9 g/dl or 
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) <0.5 x 109/l, eltrombopag may be reinitiated at the previous effective 
dose. 
Discontinuation 
If no haematological response has occurred after 16 weeks of therapy with eltrombopag, therapy 
should be discontinued. If new cytogenetic abnormalities are detected, it must be evaluated whether 
continuation of eltrombopag is appropriate (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Excessive platelet count 
responses (as outlined in Table 3) or important liver test abnormalities also necessitate discontinuation 
of eltrombopag (see section 4.8). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with renal impairment. Patients with impaired renal 
function should use eltrombopag with caution and close monitoring, for example by testing serum 
creatinine and/or performing urine analysis (see section 5.2). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Eltrombopag should not be used in ITP patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score ≥5) unless 
the expected benefit outweighs the identified risk of portal venous thrombosis (see section 4.4). 
If the use of eltrombopag is deemed necessary for ITP patients with hepatic impairment the starting 
dose must be 25 mg once daily. After initiating the dose of eltrombopag in patients with hepatic 
impairment an interval of 3 weeks should be observed before increasing the dose. 
No dose adjustment is required for thrombocytopenic patients with chronic HCV and mild hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh score ≤6). Chronic HCV patients and severe aplastic anaemia patients with 
hepatic impairment should initiate eltrombopag at a dose of 25 mg once daily (see section 5.2). After 
initiating the dose of eltrombopag in patients with hepatic impairment an interval of 2 weeks should be 
observed before increasing the dose. 
There is an increased risk for adverse events, including hepatic decompensation and thromboembolic 
events (TEEs), in thrombocytopenic patients with advanced chronic liver disease treated with 
eltrombopag, either in preparation for invasive procedure or in HCV patients undergoing antiviral 
therapy (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Elderly 
There are limited data on the use of eltrombopag in ITP patients aged 65 years and older and no 
clinical experience in ITP patients aged over 85 years. In the clinical studies of eltrombopag, overall 
no clinically significant differences in safety of eltrombopag were observed between patients aged at 
least 65 years and younger patients. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in 
responses between the elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals 
cannot be ruled out (see section 5.2). 
There are limited data on the use of eltrombopag in HCV and SAA patients aged over 75 years. 
Caution should be exercised in these patients (see section 4.4). 
East-/Southeast-Asian patients 
For adult and paediatric patients of East-/Southeast-Asian ancestry, including those with hepatic 
impairment, eltrombopag should be initiated at a dose of 25 mg once daily (see section 5.2). 
Patient platelet count should continue to be monitored and the standard criteria for further dose 
modification followed. 
Paediatric population 
Revolade is not recommended for use in children under the age of one year with ITP due to 
insufficient data on safety and efficacy. The safety and efficacy of eltrombopag has not been 
established in children and adolescents (<18 years) with chronic HCV related thrombocytopenia or 
SAA. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
The tablets should be taken at least two hours before or four hours after any products such as antacids, 
dairy products (or other calcium containing food products), or mineral supplements containing 
polyvalent cations (e.g. iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, selenium and zinc) (see sections 4.5 
and 5.2). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to eltrombopag or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
There is an increased risk for adverse reactions, including potentially fatal hepatic decompensation and 
thromboembolic events, in thrombocytopenic HCV patients with advanced chronic liver disease, as 
defined by low albumin levels ≤35 g/l or model for end stage liver disease (MELD) score ≥10, when 
treated with eltrombopag in combination with interferon-based therapy. In addition, the benefits of 
treatment in terms of the proportion achieving sustained virological response (SVR) compared with 
placebo were modest in these patients (especially for those with baseline albumin ≤35g/l) compared 
with the group overall. Treatment with eltrombopag in these patients should be initiated only by 
physicians experienced in the management of advanced HCV, and only when the risks of 
thrombocytopenia or withholding antiviral therapy necessitate intervention. If treatment is considered 
clinically indicated, close monitoring of these patients is required. 
Combination with direct-acting antiviral agents 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in combination with direct-acting antiviral agents 
approved for treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection. 
Risk of hepatotoxicity 
Eltrombopag administration can cause abnormal liver function and severe hepatotoxicity, which might 
be life-threatening (see section 4.8). 
Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotrasferase (AST) and bilirubin should be 
measured prior to initiation of eltrombopag, every 2 weeks during the dose adjustment phase and 
monthly following establishment of a stable dose. Eltrombopag inhibits UGT1A1 and OATP1B1, 
which may lead to indirect hyperbilirubinaemia. If bilirubin is elevated fractionation should be 
performed. Abnormal serum liver tests should be evaluated with repeat testing within 3 to 5 days. If 
the abnormalities are confirmed, serum liver tests should be monitored until the abnormalities resolve, 
stabilise, or return to baseline levels. Eltrombopag should be discontinued if ALT levels increase 
(3 times the upper limit of normal [x ULN] in patients with normal liver function, or ≥3 x baseline or 
>5 x ULN, whichever is the lower, in patients with pre-treatment elevations in transaminases) and are: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
progressive, or 
persistent for ≥4 weeks, or 
accompanied by increased direct bilirubin, or 
accompanied by clinical symptoms of liver injury or evidence for hepatic decompensation. 
Caution is required when administering eltrombopag to patients with hepatic disease. In ITP and SAA 
patients a lower starting dose of eltrombopag should be used. Close monitoring is required when 
administering to patients with hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic decompensation (use with interferon) 
Hepatic decompensation in patients with chronic hepatitis C: Monitoring is required in patients with 
low albumin levels (≤35 g/l) or with MELD score ≥10 at baseline. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chronic HCV patients with liver cirrhosis may be at risk of hepatic decompensation when receiving 
alfa interferon therapy. In two controlled clinical studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV, 
hepatic decompensation (ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal haemorrhage, spontaneous bacterial 
peritonitis) occurred more frequently in the eltrombopag arm (11%) than in the placebo arm (6%). In 
patients with low albumin levels (≤ 35 g/l) or with a MELD score ≥10 at baseline, there was a 3-fold 
greater risk of hepatic decompensation and an increase in the risk of a fatal adverse event compared to 
those with less advanced liver disease. In addition, the benefits of treatment in terms of the proportion 
achieving SVR compared with placebo were modest in these patients (especially for those with 
baseline albumin ≤35 g/l) compared with the group overall. Eltrombopag should only be administered 
to such patients after careful consideration of the expected benefits in comparison with the risks. 
Patients with these characteristics should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatic 
decompensation. The respective interferon summary of product characteristics should be referenced 
for discontinuation criteria. Eltrombopag should be terminated if antiviral therapy is discontinued for 
hepatic decompensation. 
Thrombotic/thromboembolic complications 
In controlled studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV receiving interferon-based therapy 
(n=1 439), 38 out of 955 patients (4%) treated with eltrombopag and 6 out of 484 patients (1%) in the 
placebo group experienced TEEs. Reported thrombotic/thromboembolic complications included both 
venous and arterial events. The majority of TEEs were non-serious and resolved by the end of the 
study. Portal vein thrombosis was the most common TEE in both treatment groups (2% in patients 
treated with eltrombopag versus <1% for placebo). No specific temporal relationship between start of 
treatment and event of TEE were observed. Patients with low albumin levels (≤35 g/l) or MELD ≥10 
had a 2-fold greater risk of TEEs than those with higher albumin levels; those aged ≥60 years had a 
2-fold greater risk of TEEs compared to younger patients. Eltrombopag should only be administered to 
such patients after careful consideration of the expected benefits in comparison with the risks. Patients 
should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of TEE. 
The risk of TEEs has been found to be increased in patients with chronic liver disease (CLD) treated 
with 75 mg eltrombopag once daily for 2 weeks in preparation for invasive procedures. Six of 143 
(4%) adult patients with CLD receiving eltrombopag experienced TEEs (all of the portal venous 
system) and two of 145 (1%) patients in the placebo group experienced TEEs (one in the portal venous 
system and one myocardial infarction). Five of the 6 patients treated with eltrombopag experienced the 
thrombotic complication at a platelet count >200 000/µl and within 30 days of the last dose of 
eltrombopag. Eltrombopag is not indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with 
chronic liver disease in preparation for invasive procedures. 
In eltrombopag clinical studies in ITP thromboembolic events were observed at low and normal 
platelet counts. Caution should be used when administering eltrombopag to patients with known risk 
factors for thromboembolism including but not limited to inherited (e.g. Factor V Leiden) or acquired 
risk factors (e.g. ATIII deficiency, antiphospholipid syndrome), advanced age, patients with prolonged 
periods of immobilisation, malignancies, contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy, 
surgery/trauma, obesity and smoking. Platelet counts should be closely monitored and consideration 
given to reducing the dose or discontinuing eltrombopag treatment if the platelet count exceeds the 
target levels (see section 4.2). The risk-benefit balance should be considered in patients at risk of TEEs 
of any aetiology. 
No case of TEE was identified from a clinical study in refractory SAA, however the risk of these 
events cannot be excluded in this patient population due to the limited number of exposed patients. As 
the highest authorised dose is indicated for patients with SAA (150 mg/day) and due to the nature of 
the reaction, TEEs might be expected in this patient population. 
Eltrombopag should not be used in ITP patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score ≥5) unless 
the expected benefit outweighs the identified risk of portal venous thrombosis. When treatment is 
considered appropriate, caution is required when administering eltrombopag to patients with hepatic 
impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bleeding following discontinuation of eltrombopag 
Thrombocytopenia is likely to reoccur in ITP patients upon discontinuation of treatment with 
eltrombopag. Following discontinuation of eltrombopag, platelet counts return to baseline levels 
within 2 weeks in the majority of patients, which increases the bleeding risk and in some cases may 
lead to bleeding. This risk is increased if eltrombopag treatment is discontinued in the presence of 
anticoagulants or anti-platelet agents. It is recommended that, if treatment with eltrombopag is 
discontinued, ITP treatment be restarted according to current treatment guidelines. Additional medical 
management may include cessation of anticoagulant and/or anti-platelet therapy, reversal of 
anticoagulation, or platelet support. Platelet counts must be monitored weekly for 4 weeks following 
discontinuation of eltrombopag. 
In HCV clinical studies, a higher incidence of gastrointestinal bleeding, including serious and fatal 
cases, was reported following discontinuation of peginterferon, ribavirin, and eltrombopag. Following 
discontinuation of therapy, patients should be monitored for any signs or symptoms of gastrointestinal 
bleeding. 
Bone marrow reticulin formation and risk of bone marrow fibrosis 
Eltrombopag may increase the risk for development or progression of reticulin fibres within the bone 
marrow. The relevance of this finding, as with other thrombopoietin-receptor (TPO-R) agonists, has 
not been established yet. 
Prior to initiation of eltrombopag, the peripheral blood smear should be examined closely to establish 
a baseline level of cellular morphologic abnormalities. Following identification of a stable dose of 
eltrombopag, full blood count (FBC) with white blood cell count (WBC) differential should be 
performed monthly. If immature or dysplastic cells are observed, peripheral blood smears should be 
examined for new or worsening morphological abnormalities (e.g. teardrop and nucleated red blood 
cells, immature white blood cells) or cytopenia(s). If the patient develops new or worsening 
morphological abnormalities or cytopenia(s), treatment with eltrombopag should be discontinued and 
a bone marrow biopsy considered, including staining for fibrosis. 
Progression of existing myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) 
There is a theoretical concern that TPO-R agonists may stimulate the progression of existing 
haematological malignancies such as MDS. TPO-R agonists are growth factors that lead to 
thrombopoietic progenitor cell expansion, differentiation and platelet production. The TPO-R is 
predominantly expressed on the surface of cells of the myeloid lineage. 
In clinical studies with a TPO-R agonist in patients with MDS, cases of transient increases in blast cell 
counts were observed and cases of MDS disease progression to acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) were 
reported. 
The diagnosis of ITP or SAA in adults and elderly patients should be confirmed by the exclusion of 
other clinical entities presenting with thrombocytopenia, in particular the diagnosis of MDS must be 
excluded. Consideration should be given to performing a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy over the 
course of the disease and treatment, particularly in patients over 60 years of age, those with systemic 
symptoms, or abnormal signs such as increased peripheral blast cells. 
The effectiveness and safety of Revolade have not been established for the treatment of 
thrombocytopenia due to MDS. Revolade should not be used outside of clinical studies for the 
treatment of thrombocytopenia due to MDS. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytogenetic abnormalities and progression to MDS/AML in patients with SAA 
Cytogenetic abnormalities are known to occur in SAA patients. It is not known whether eltrombopag 
increases the risk of cytogenetic abnormalities in patients with SAA. In the phase II refractory SAA 
clinical study with eltrombopag with a starting dose of 50 mg/day (escalated every 2 weeks to a 
maximum of 150 mg/day) (ELT112523), the incidence of new cytogenetic abnormalities was 
observed in 17.1% of adult patients [7/41 (where 4 of them had changes in chromosome 7)]. The 
median time on study to a cytogenetic abnormality was 2.9 months. 
In the phase II refractory SAA clinical study with eltrombopag at a dose of 150 mg/day (with ethnic or 
age related modifications as indicated) (ELT116826), the incidence of new cytogenetic abnormalities 
was observed in 22.6% of adult patients [7/31 (where 3 of them had changes in chromosome 7)]. All 
7 patients had normal cytogenetics at baseline. Six patients had cytogenetic abnormality at Month 3 of 
eltrombopag therapy and one patient had cytogenetic abnormality at Month 6. 
In clinical studies with eltrombopag in SAA, 4% of patients (5/133) were diagnosed with MDS. The 
median time to diagnosis was 3 months from the start of eltrombopag treatment. 
For SAA patients refractory to or heavily pretreated with prior immunosuppressive therapy, bone 
marrow examination with aspirations for cytogenetics is recommended prior to initiation of 
eltrombopag, at 3 months of treatment and 6 months thereafter. If new cytogenetic abnormalities are 
detected, it must be evaluated whether continuation of eltrombopag is appropriate. 
Ocular changes 
Cataracts were observed in toxicology studies of eltrombopag in rodents (see section 5.3). In 
controlled studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV receiving interferon therapy (n=1 439), 
progression of pre-existing baseline cataract(s) or incident cataracts was reported in 8% of the 
eltrombopag group and 5% of the placebo group. Retinal haemorrhages, mostly Grade 1 or 2, have 
been reported in HCV patients receiving interferon, ribavirin and eltrombopag (2% of the eltrombopag 
group and 2% of the placebo group. Haemorrhages occurred on the surface of the retina (preretinal), 
under the retina (subretinal), or within the retinal tissue. Routine ophthalmologic monitoring of 
patients is recommended. 
QT/QTc prolongation 
A QTc study in healthy volunteers dosed 150 mg eltrombopag per day did not show a clinically 
significant effect on cardiac repolarisation. QTc interval prolongation has been reported in clinical 
studies of patients with ITP and thrombocytopenic patients with HCV. The clinical significance of 
these QTc prolongation events is unknown. 
Loss of response to eltrombopag 
A loss of response or failure to maintain a platelet response with eltrombopag treatment within the 
recommended dosing range should prompt a search for causative factors, including an increased bone 
marrow reticulin. 
Paediatric population 
The above warnings and precautions for ITP also apply to the paediatric population. 
Interference with laboratory tests 
Eltrombopag is highly coloured and so has the potential to interfere with some laboratory tests. Serum 
discolouration and interference with total bilirubin and creatinine testing have been reported in 
patients taking Revolade. If the laboratory results and clinical observations are inconsistent, re-testing 
using another method may help in determining the validity of the result. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per film-coated tablet, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of eltrombopag on other medicinal products 
HMG CoA reductase inhibitors 
Administration of eltrombopag 75 mg once daily for 5 days with a single 10 mg dose of the OATP1B1 
and BCRP substrate rosuvastatin to 39 healthy adult subjects increased plasma rosuvastatin Cmax 103% 
(90% confidence interval [CI]: 82%, 126%) and AUC0- 55% (90% CI: 42%, 69%). Interactions are 
also expected with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, 
pravastatin and simvastatin. When co-administered with eltrombopag, a reduced dose of statins should 
be considered and careful monitoring for statin adverse reactions should be undertaken (see 
section 5.2). 
OATP1B1 and BCRP substrates 
Concomitant administration of eltrombopag and OATP1B1 (e.g. methotrexate) and BCRP (e.g. 
topotecan and methotrexate) substrates should be undertaken with caution (see section 5.2). 
Cytochrome P450 substrates 
In studies utilising human liver microsomes, eltrombopag (up to 100 M) showed no in vitro 
inhibition of the CYP450 enzymes 1A2, 2A6, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4/5, and 4A9/11 and was an 
inhibitor of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 as measured using paclitaxel and diclofenac as the probe 
substrates. Administration of eltrombopag 75 mg once daily for 7 days to 24 healthy male subjects did 
not inhibit or induce the metabolism of probe substrates for 1A2 (caffeine), 2C19 (omeprazole), 2C9 
(flurbiprofen), or 3A4 (midazolam) in humans. No clinically significant interactions are expected 
when eltrombopag and CYP450 substrates are co-administered (see section 5.2). 
HCV protease inhibitors 
Dose adjustment is not required when eltrombopag is co-administered with either telaprevir or 
boceprevir. Co-administration of a single dose of eltrombopag 200 mg with telaprevir 750 mg every 
8 hours did not alter plasma telaprevir exposure. 
Co-administration of a single dose of eltrombopag 200 mg with boceprevir 800 mg every 8 hours did 
not alter plasma boceprevir AUC(0-), but increased Cmax by 20%, and decreased Cmin by 32%. The 
clinical relevance of the decrease in Cmin has not been established, increased clinical and laboratory 
monitoring for HCV suppression is recommended. 
Effects of other medicinal products on eltrombopag 
Ciclosporin 
A decrease in eltrombopag exposure was observed with co-administration of 200 mg and 600 mg 
ciclosporin (a BCRP inhibitor). The co-administration of 200 mg ciclosporin decreased the Cmax and 
the AUC0- of eltrombopag by 25% and 18%, respectively. The co-administration of 600 mg 
ciclosporin decreased the Cmax and the AUC0- of eltrombopag by 39% and 24%, respectively. 
Eltrombopag dose adjustment is permitted during the course of the treatment based on the patient’s 
platelet count (see section 4.2). Platelet count should be monitored at least weekly for 2 to 3 weeks 
when eltrombopag is co-administered with ciclosporin. Eltrombopag dose may need to be increased 
based on these platelet counts. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Polyvalent cations (chelation) 
Eltrombopag chelates with polyvalent cations such as iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, selenium 
and zinc. Administration of a single dose of eltrombopag 75 mg with a polyvalent cation-containing 
antacid (1 524 mg aluminium hydroxide and 1 425 mg magnesium carbonate) decreased plasma 
eltrombopag AUC0- by 70% (90% CI: 64%, 76%) and Cmax by 70% (90% CI: 62%, 76%). 
Eltrombopag should be taken at least two hours before or four hours after any products such as 
antacids, dairy products or mineral supplements containing polyvalent cations to avoid significant 
reduction in eltrombopag absorption due to chelation (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Lopinavir/ritonavir 
Co-administration of eltrombopag with lopinavir/ritonavir may cause a decrease in the concentration 
of eltrombopag. A study in 40 healthy volunteers showed that the co-administration of a single 100 mg 
dose of eltrombopag with repeat dose lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily resulted in a 
reduction in eltrombopag plasma AUC0- by 17% (90% CI: 6.6%, 26.6%). Therefore, caution should 
be used when co-administration of eltrombopag with lopinavir/ritonavir takes place. Platelet count 
should be closely monitored in order to ensure appropriate medical management of the dose of 
eltrombopag when lopinavir/ritonavir therapy is initiated or discontinued. 
CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 inhibitors and inducers 
Eltrombopag is metabolised through multiple pathways including CYP1A2, CYP2C8, UGT1A1, and 
UGT1A3 (see section 5.2). Medicinal products that inhibit or induce a single enzyme are unlikely to 
significantly affect plasma eltrombopag concentrations, whereas medicinal products that inhibit or 
induce multiple enzymes have the potential to increase (e.g. fluvoxamine) or decrease (e.g. rifampicin) 
eltrombopag concentrations. 
HCV protease inhibitors 
Results of a drug-drug pharmacokinetic (PK) interaction study show that co-administration of repeat 
doses of boceprevir 800 mg every 8 hours or telaprevir 750 mg every 8 hours with a single dose of 
eltrombopag 200 mg did not alter plasma eltrombopag exposure to a clinically significant extent. 
Medicinal products for treatment of ITP 
Medicinal products used in the treatment of ITP in combination with eltrombopag in clinical studies 
included corticosteroids, danazol, and/or azathioprine, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), and 
anti-D immunoglobulin. Platelet counts should be monitored when combining eltrombopag with other 
medicinal products for the treatment of ITP in order to avoid platelet counts outside of the 
recommended range (see section 4.2). 
Food interaction 
The administration of eltrombopag tablet or powder for oral suspension formulations with a high-
calcium meal (e.g. a meal that included dairy products) significantly reduced plasma eltrombopag 
AUC0-∞ and Cmax. In contrast, the administration of eltrombopag 2 hours before or 4 hours after a high-
calcium meal or with low-calcium food [<50 mg calcium] did not alter plasma eltrombopag exposure 
to a clinically significant extent (see section 4.2). 
Administration of a single 50 mg dose of eltrombopag in tablet form with a standard high-calorie, 
high-fat breakfast that included dairy products reduced plasma eltrombopag mean AUC0-∞ by 59% and 
mean Cmax by 65%. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration of a single 25 mg dose of eltrombopag as powder for oral suspension with a high-
calcium, moderate-fat and moderate-calorie meal reduced plasma eltrombopag mean AUC0-∞ by 75% 
and mean Cmax by 79%. This decrease of exposure was attenuated when a single 25 mg dose of 
eltrombopag powder for oral suspension was administered 2 hours before a high-calcium meal (mean 
AUC0-∞ was decreased by 20% and mean Cmax by 14%). 
Food low in calcium (<50 mg calcium), including fruit, lean ham, beef and unfortified (no added 
calcium, magnesium or iron) fruit juice, unfortified soya milk and unfortified grain, did not 
significantly impact plasma eltrombopag exposure, regardless of calorie and fat content (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of eltrombopag in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Revolade is not recommended during pregnancy. 
Women of childbearing potential / Contraception in males and females 
Revolade is not recommended in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether eltrombopag/metabolites are excreted in human milk. Studies in animals have 
shown that eltrombopag is likely secreted into milk (see section 5.3); therefore a risk to the suckling 
child cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
continue/abstain from Revolade therapy, taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child 
and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Fertility was not affected in male or female rats at exposures that were comparable to those in humans. 
However a risk for humans cannot be ruled out (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Eltrombopag has negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. The clinical status of 
the patient and the adverse reaction profile of eltrombopag, including dizziness and lack of alertness, 
should be borne in mind when considering the patient’s ability to perform tasks that require 
judgement, motor and cognitive skills. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Immune thrombocytopenia in adult and paediatric patients 
The safety of Revolade was assessed in adult patients (N=763) using the pooled double-blind, 
placebo-controlled studies TRA100773A and B, TRA102537 (RAISE) and TRA113765, in which 
403 patients were exposed to Revolade and 179 to placebo, in addition to data from the completed 
open-label studies (N=360) TRA108057 (REPEAT), TRA105325 (EXTEND) and TRA112940 (see 
section 5.1). Patients received study medication for up to 8 years (in EXTEND). The most important 
serious adverse reactions were hepatotoxicity and thrombotic/thromboembolic events. The most 
common adverse reactions occurring in at least 10% of patients included nausea, diarrhoea, increased 
alanine aminotransferase and back pain. 
The safety of Revolade in paediatric patients (aged 1 to 17 years) with previously treated ITP has been 
demonstrated in two studies (N=171) (see section 5.1). PETIT2 (TRA115450) was a two-part, double-
blind and open-label, randomised, placebo-controlled study. Patients were randomised 2:1 and 
received Revolade (n=63) or placebo (n=29) for up to 13 weeks in the randomised period of the study. 
PETIT (TRA108062) was a three-part, staggered-cohort, open-label and double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled study. Patients were randomised 2:1 and received Revolade (n=44) or placebo 
(n=21), for up to 7 weeks. The profile of adverse reactions was comparable to that seen in adults with 
some additional adverse reactions, marked ♦ in the table below. The most common adverse reactions 
in paediatric ITP patients 1 year and older (≥3% and greater than placebo) were upper respiratory tract 
infection, nasopharyngitis, cough, pyrexia, abdominal pain, oropharyngeal pain, toothache and 
rhinorrhoea. 
Thrombocytopenia with HCV infection in adult patients 
ENABLE 1 (TPL103922 n=716, 715 treated with eltrombopag) and ENABLE 2 (TPL108390 n=805) 
were randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre studies to assess the efficacy and 
safety of Revolade in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV infection who were otherwise eligible to 
initiate antiviral therapy. In the HCV studies the safety population consisted of all randomised patients 
who received double-blind study medicinal product during Part 2 of ENABLE 1 (Revolade treatment 
n=450, placebo treatment n=232) and ENABLE 2 (Revolade treatment n=506, placebo treatment 
n=252). Patients are analysed according to the treatment received (total safety double-blind 
population, Revolade n=955 and placebo n=484). The most important serious adverse reactions 
identified were hepatotoxicity and thrombotic/thromboembolic events. The most common adverse 
reactions occurring in at least 10% of patients included headache, anaemia, decreased appetite, cough, 
nausea, diarrhoea, hyperbilirubinaemia, alopecia, pruritus, myalgia, pyrexia, fatigue, influenza-like 
illness, asthenia, chills and oedema. 
Severe aplastic anaemia in adult patients 
The safety of Revolade in severe aplastic anaemia was assessed in a single-arm, open-label study 
(N=43) in which 11 patients (26%) were treated for >6 months and 7 patients (16%) were treated for 
>1 year (see section 5.1). The most common adverse reactions occurring in at least 10% of patients 
included headache, dizziness, cough, oropharyngeal pain, rhinorrhoea, nausea, diarrhoea, abdominal 
pain, transaminases increased, arthralgia, pain in extremity, muscle spasms, fatigue and pyrexia. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions in the adult ITP studies (N=763), paediatric ITP studies (N=171), the HCV 
studies (N=1 520), the SAA studies (N=43) and post-marketing reports are listed below by MedDRA 
system organ class and by frequency. Within each system organ class, the adverse drug reactions are 
ranked by frequency, with the most frequent reactions first. The corresponding frequency category for 
each adverse drug reaction is based on the following convention (CIOMS III): very common (≥1/10); 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000); not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). 
ITP study population 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and unspecified 
(incl cysts and polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Frequency  Adverse reaction 
Very 
common 
Common 
Nasopharyngitis♦, upper respiratory tract infection♦ 
Pharyngitis, influenza, oral herpes, pneumonia, 
sinusitis, tonsillitis, respiratory tract infection, 
gingivitis 
Uncommon  Skin infection 
Uncommon  Rectosigmoid cancer 
Common 
Anaemia, eosinophilia, leukocytosis, 
thrombocytopenia, haemoglobin decreased, white 
blood cell count decreased 
Uncommon  Anisocytosis, haemolytic anaemia, myelocytosis, band 
neutrophil count increased, myelocyte present, platelet 
count increased, haemoglobin increased 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Uncommon  Hypersensitivity 
Common 
Hypokalaemia, decreased appetite, blood uric acid 
increased 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Sleep disorder, depression 
Paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, somnolence, migraine 
Uncommon  Anorexia, gout, hypocalcaemia 
Common 
Uncommon  Apathy, mood altered, tearfulness 
Common 
Uncommon  Tremor, balance disorder, dysaesthesia, hemiparesis, 
migraine with aura, neuropathy peripheral, peripheral 
sensory neuropathy, speech disorder, toxic neuropathy, 
vascular headache 
Dry eye, vision blurred, eye pain, visual acuity reduced 
Common 
Uncommon  Lenticular opacities, astigmatism, cataract cortical, 
lacrimation increased, retinal haemorrhage, retinal 
pigment epitheliopathy, visual impairment, visual 
acuity tests abnormal, blepharitis, keratoconjunctivitis 
sicca 
Ear pain, vertigo 
Common 
Uncommon  Tachycardia, acute myocardial infarction, 
cardiovascular disorder, cyanosis, sinus tachycardia, 
electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
16 
 
 
 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Deep vein thrombosis, haematoma, hot flush 
Common 
Uncommon  Embolism, thrombophlebitis superficial, flushing 
Very 
common 
Oropharyngeal pain♦, rhinorrhoea♦ 
Common 
Uncommon  Pulmonary embolism, pulmonary infarction, nasal 
Cough♦ 
discomfort, oropharyngeal blistering, sinus disorder, 
sleep apnoea syndrome 
Nausea, diarrhoea 
Very 
common 
Common  Mouth ulceration, toothache♦, vomiting, abdominal 
pain*, mouth haemorrhage, flatulence 
* Very common in paediatric ITP 
Uncommon  Dry mouth, glossodynia, abdominal tenderness, faeces 
Very 
common 
Common 
discoloured, food poisoning, frequent bowel 
movements, haematemesis, oral discomfort 
Alanine aminotransferase increased† 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased†, 
hyperbilirubinaemia, hepatic function abnormal 
Uncommon  Cholestasis, hepatic lesion, hepatitis, drug-induced liver 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
injury 
Rash, alopecia, hyperhidrosis, pruritus generalised, 
petechiae 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Uncommon  Urticaria, dermatosis, cold sweat, erythema, melanosis, 
pigmentation disorder, skin discolouration, skin 
exfoliation 
Back pain 
Very 
common 
Common  Myalgia, muscle spasm, musculoskeletal pain, bone 
pain 
Uncommon  Muscular weakness 
Common 
Proteinuria, blood creatinine increased, thrombotic 
microangiopathy with renal failure‡ 
Uncommon  Renal failure, leukocyturia, lupus nephritis, nocturia, 
blood urea increased, urine protein/creatinine ratio 
increased 
Common  Menorrhagia 
Common 
Pyrexia*, chest pain, asthenia 
*Very common in paediatric ITP 
Uncommon  Feeling hot, vessel puncture site haemorrhage, feeling 
jittery, inflammation of wound, malaise, sensation of 
foreign body 
Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 
Common 
Uncommon  Blood albumin increased, protein total increased, blood 
albumin decreased, pH urine increased 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Uncommon  Sunburn 
♦ 
† 
‡ 
Additional adverse reactions observed in paediatric studies (aged 1 to 17 years). 
Increase of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase may occur simultaneously, 
although at a lower frequency. 
Grouped term with preferred terms acute kidney injury and renal failure 
17 
 
HCV study population (in combination with anti-viral interferon and ribavirin therapy) 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Frequency  Adverse reaction 
Common 
Urinary tract infection, upper respiratory tract 
infection, bronchitis, nasopharyngitis, influenza, oral 
herpes 
Uncommon  Gastroenteritis, pharyngitis 
Common 
Hepatic neoplasm malignant 
Anaemia 
Lymphopenia 
Decreased appetite 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon  Haemolytic anaemia 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon  Confusional state, agitation 
Very 
common 
Common 
Headache 
Hyperglycaemia, abnormal loss of weight 
Depression, anxiety, sleep disorder 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Dizziness, disturbance in attention, dysgeusia, hepatic 
encephalopathy, lethargy, memory impairment, 
paraesthesia 
Cataract, retinal exudates, dry eye, ocular icterus, 
retinal haemorrhage 
Vertigo 
Palpitations 
Cough 
Dyspnoea, oropharyngeal pain, dyspnoea exertional, 
productive cough 
Nausea, diarrhoea 
Vomiting, ascites, abdominal pain, abdominal pain 
upper, dyspepsia, dry mouth, constipation, abdominal 
distension, toothache, stomatitis, gastrooesophagal 
reflux disease, haemorrhoids, abdominal discomfort, 
varices oesophageal 
Uncommon  Oesophageal varices haemorrhage, gastritis, aphthous 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
stomatitis 
Hyperbilirubinaemia, jaundice, drug-induced liver 
injury 
Uncommon  Portal vein thrombosis, hepatic failure 
18 
 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Pruritus 
Rash, dry skin, eczema, rash pruritic, erythema, 
hyperhidrosis, pruritus generalised, alopecia 
Uncommon  Skin lesion, skin discolouration, skin 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorder 
Very 
common 
Common 
hyperpigmentation, night sweats 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia, muscle spasms, back pain, pain in 
extremity, musculoskeletal pain, bone pain 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon  Thrombotic microangiopathy with acute renal 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Common 
failure†, dysuria  
Pyrexia, fatigue, influenza-like illness, asthenia, chills 
Irritability, pain, malaise, injection site reaction, non-
cardiac chest pain, oedema, oedema peripheral 
Injection site pruritus, injection site rash, chest 
discomfort 
Blood bilirubin increased, weight decreased, white 
blood cell count decreased, haemoglobin decreased, 
neutrophil count decreased, international normalised 
ratio increased, activated partial thromboplastin time 
prolonged, blood glucose increased, blood albumin 
decreased 
Uncommon  Electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
† 
Grouped term with preferred terms oliguria, renal failure and renal impairment 
19 
 
 
 
 
SAA study population 
System organ class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Frequency  Adverse reaction 
Common 
Neutropenia, splenic infarction 
Common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Iron overload, decreased appetite, hypoglycaemia, 
increased appetite 
Anxiety, depression 
Headache, dizziness 
Syncope 
Dry eye, cataract, ocular icterus, vision blurred, 
visual impairment, vitreous floaters 
Cough, oropharyngeal pain, rhinorrhoea 
Epistaxis 
Diarrhoea, nausea, gingival bleeding, abdominal pain 
Oral mucosal blistering, oral pain, vomiting, 
abdominal discomfort, constipation, abdominal 
distension, dysphagia, faeces discoloured, swollen 
tongue, gastrointestinal motility disorder, flatulence 
Transaminases increased 
Blood bilirubin increased (hyperbilirubinemia), 
jaundice 
Not known  Drug-induced liver injury* 
* Cases of drug-induced liver injury have been 
reported in patients with ITP and HCV 
Petechiae, rash, pruritus, urticaria, skin lesion, rash 
macular 
Skin discolouration, skin hyperpigmentation 
Arthralgia, pain in extremity, muscle spasms 
Back pain, myalgia, bone pain 
Chromaturia 
Fatigue, pyrexia, chills 
Asthenia, oedema peripheral, malaise 
Blood creatine phosphokinase increased 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculosketal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Common 
Not known 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Thrombotic/thromboembolic events (TEEs) 
In 3 controlled and 2 uncontrolled clinical studies among adult ITP patients receiving eltrombopag 
(n=446), 17 patients experienced a total of 19 TEEs, which included (in descending order of 
occurrence) deep vein thrombosis (n=6), pulmonary embolism (n=6), acute myocardial infarction 
(n=2), cerebral infarction (n=2), embolism (n=1) (see section 4.4). 
In a placebo-controlled study (n=288, Safety population), following 2 weeks’ treatment in preparation 
for invasive procedures, 6 of 143 (4%) adult patients with chronic liver disease receiving eltrombopag 
experienced 7 TEEs of the portal venous system and 2 of 145 (1%) patients in the placebo group 
experienced 3 TEEs. Five of the 6 patients treated with eltrombopag experienced the TEE at a platelet 
count >200 000/µl 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No specific risk factors were identified in those patients who experienced a TEE with the exception of 
platelet counts ≥200 000/µl (see section 4.4). 
In controlled studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV (n=1 439), 38 out of 955 patients (4%) 
treated with eltrombopag experienced a TEE and 6 out of 484 patients (1%) in the placebo group 
experienced TEEs. Portal vein thrombosis was the most common TEE in both treatment groups (2% in 
patients treated with eltrombopag versus < 1% for placebo) (see section 4.4). Patients with low 
albumin levels (≤ 35 g/l) or MELD ≥10 had a 2-fold greater risk of TEEs than those with higher 
albumin levels; those aged ≥60 years had a 2-fold greater risk of TEEs compared to younger patients. 
Hepatic decompensation (use with interferon) 
Chronic HCV patients with cirrhosis may be at risk of hepatic decompensation when receiving alfa 
interferon therapy. In 2 controlled clinical studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV, hepatic 
decompensation (ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal haemorrhage, spontaneous bacterial 
peritonitis) was reported more frequently in the eltrombopag arm (11%) than in the placebo arm (6%). 
In patients with low albumin levels (≤35 g/l) or MELD score ≥10 at baseline, there was a 3-fold 
greater risk of hepatic decompensation and an increase in the risk of a fatal adverse event compared to 
those with less advanced liver disease. Eltrombopag should only be administered to such patients after 
careful consideration of the expected benefits in comparison with the risks. Patients with these 
characteristics should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatic decompensation (see 
section 4.4). 
Hepatotoxicity 
In the controlled clinical studies in chronic ITP with eltrombopag, increases in serum ALT, AST and 
bilirubin were observed (see section 4.4). 
These findings were mostly mild (Grade 1-2), reversible and not accompanied by clinically significant 
symptoms that would indicate an impaired liver function. Across the 3 placebo-controlled studies in 
adults with chronic ITP, 1 patient in the placebo group and 1 patient in the eltrombopag group 
experienced a Grade 4 liver test abnormality. In two placebo-controlled studies in paediatric patients 
(aged 1 to 17 years) with chronic ITP, ALT 3 x ULN was reported in 4.7% and 0% of the 
eltrombopag and placebo groups, respectively. 
In 2 controlled clinical studies in patients with HCV, ALT or AST 3 x ULN was reported in 34% and 
38% of the eltrombopag and placebo groups, respectively. Most patients receiving eltrombopag in 
combination with peginterferon / ribavirin therapy will experience indirect hyperbilirubinaemia. 
Overall, total bilirubin ≥1.5 x ULN was reported in 76% and 50% of the eltrombopag and placebo 
groups, respectively. 
In the single-arm phase II monotherapy refractory SAA study, concurrent ALT or AST >3 x ULN 
with total (indirect) bilirubin >1.5 x ULN were reported in 5% of patients. Total bilirubin >1.5 x ULN 
occurred in 14% of patients. 
Thrombocytopenia following discontinuation of treatment 
In the 3 controlled clinical ITP studies, transient decreases in platelet counts to levels lower than 
baseline were observed following discontinuation of treatment in 8% and 8% of the eltrombopag and 
placebo groups, respectively (see section 4.4). 
Increased bone marrow reticulin 
Across the programme, no patients had evidence of clinically relevant bone marrow abnormalities or 
clinical findings that would indicate bone marrow dysfunction. In a small number of ITP patients, 
eltrombopag treatment was discontinued due to bone marrow reticulin (see section 4.4). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytogenetic abnormalities 
In the phase II refractory SAA clinical study with eltrombopag with a starting dose of 50 mg/day 
(escalated every 2 weeks to a maximum of 150 mg/day) (ELT112523), the incidence of new 
cytogenetic abnormalities was observed in 17.1% of adult patients [7/41 (where 4 of them had changes 
in chromosome 7)]. The median time on study to a cytogenetic abnormality was 2.9 months. 
In the phase II refractory SAA clinical study with eltrombopag at a dose of 150 mg/day (with ethnic or 
age related modifications as indicated) (ELT116826), the incidence of new cytogenetic abnormalities 
was observed in 22.6% of adult patients [7/31 (where 3 of them had changes in chromosome 7)]. All 
7 patients had normal cytogenetics at baseline. Six patients had cytogenetic abnormality at Month 3 of 
eltrombopag therapy and one patient had cytogenetic abnormality at Month 6. 
Haematologic malignancies 
In the single-arm, open-label study in SAA, three (7%) patients were diagnosed with MDS following 
treatment with eltrombopag, in the two ongoing studies (ELT116826 and ELT116643), 1/28 (4%) and 
1/62 (2%) patient has been diagnosed with MDS or AML in each study. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In the event of overdose, platelet counts may increase excessively and result in 
thrombotic/thromboembolic complications. In case of an overdose, consideration should be given to 
oral administration of a metal cation-containing preparation, such as calcium, aluminium, or 
magnesium preparations to chelate eltrombopag and thus limit absorption. Platelet counts should be 
closely monitored. Treatment with eltrombopag should be reinitiated in accordance with dosing and 
administration recommendations (see section 4.2). 
In the clinical studies there was one report of overdose where the patient ingested 5 000 mg of 
eltrombopag. Reported adverse reactions included mild rash, transient bradycardia, ALT and AST 
elevation, and fatigue. Liver enzymes measured between Days 2 and 18 after ingestion peaked at a 
1.6-fold ULN in AST, a 3.9-fold ULN in ALT, and a 2.4-fold ULN in total bilirubin. The platelet 
counts were 672 000/µl on Day 18 after ingestion and the maximum platelet count was 929 000/µl. All 
events were resolved without sequelae following treatment. 
Because eltrombopag is not significantly renally excreted and is highly bound to plasma proteins, 
haemodialysis would not be expected to be an effective method to enhance the elimination of 
eltrombopag. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antihemorrhagics, other systemic hemostatics. ATC code: B02BX 05. 
Mechanism of action 
TPO is the main cytokine involved in regulation of megakaryopoiesis and platelet production, and is 
the endogenous ligand for the TPO-R. Eltrombopag interacts with the transmembrane domain of the 
human TPO-R and initiates signalling cascades similar but not identical to that of endogenous 
thrombopoietin (TPO), inducing proliferation and differentiation from bone marrow progenitor cells. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Immune (primary) thrombocytopenia (ITP) studies 
Two phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies RAISE (TRA102537) and 
TRA100773B and two open-label studies REPEAT (TRA108057) and EXTEND (TRA105325) 
evaluated the safety and efficacy of eltrombopag in adult patients with previously treated ITP. Overall, 
eltrombopag was administered to 277 ITP patients for at least 6 months and 202 patients for at least 
1 year. The single-arm phase II study TAPER (CETB115J2411) evaluated the safety and efficacy of 
eltrombopag and its ability to induce sustained response after treatment discontinuation in 105 adult 
ITP patients who relapsed or failed to respond to first-line corticosteroid treatment. 
Double-blind placebo-controlled studies 
RAISE: 
197 ITP patients were randomised 2:1, eltrombopag (n=135) to placebo (n=62), and randomisation 
was stratified based upon splenectomy status, use of ITP medicinal products at baseline and baseline 
platelet count. The dose of eltrombopag was adjusted during the 6-month treatment period based on 
individual platelet counts. All patients initiated treatment with eltrombopag 50 mg. From Day 29 to 
the end of treatment, 15 to 28% of eltrombopag-treated patients were maintained on ≤25 mg and 29 to 
53% received 75 mg. 
In addition, patients could taper off concomitant ITP medicinal products and receive rescue treatments 
as dictated by local standard of care. More than half of all patients in each treatment group had ≥3 
prior ITP therapies and 36% had a prior splenectomy. 
Median platelet counts at baseline were 16 000/l for both treatment groups and in the eltrombopag 
group were maintained above 50 000/µl at all on-therapy visits starting at Day 15; in contrast, median 
platelet counts in the placebo group remained <30 000/µl throughout the study. 
Platelet count response between 50 000-400 000/l in the absence of rescue treatment was achieved by 
significantly more patients in the eltrombopag treated group during the 6-month treatment period, 
p <0.001. Fifty-four percent of the eltrombopag-treated patients and 13% of placebo-treated patients 
achieved this level of response after 6 weeks of treatment. A similar platelet response was maintained 
throughout the study, with 52% and 16% of patients responding at the end of the 6-month treatment 
period. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 
Secondary efficacy results from RAISE 
Key secondary endpoints 
Number of cumulative weeks with platelet counts 
50 000-400 000/µl, Mean (SD) 
Patients with ≥75% of assessments in the target range (50 000 to 
400 000/l), n (%) 
p-value a 
Patients with bleeding (WHO Grades 1-4) at any time during 
6 months, n (%) 
p-value a 
Patients with bleeding (WHO Grades 2-4) at any time during 
6 months, n (%) 
p-value a 
Requiring rescue therapy, n (%) 
p-value a 
Patients receiving ITP therapy at baseline (n) 
Eltrombopag 
N=135 
Placebo 
N=62 
11.3 (9.46) 
2.4 (5.95) 
51 (38) 
4 (7) 
<0.001 
106 (79) 
56 (93) 
0.012 
44 (33) 
32 (53) 
0.002 
24 (18) 
25 (40) 
0.001 
63 
37 (59) 
31 
10 (32) 
Patients who attempted to reduce or discontinue baseline 
therapy, n (%)b 
  p-value a 
Logistic regression model adjusted for randomisation stratification variables 
21 out of 63 (33%) patients treated with eltrombopag who were taking an ITP medicinal product 
at baseline permanently discontinued all baseline ITP medicinal products. 
0.016 
a 
b 
At baseline, more than 70% of ITP patients in each treatment group reported any bleeding (WHO 
Grades 1-4) and more than 20% reported clinically significant bleeding (WHO Grades 2-4), 
respectively. The proportion of eltrombopag-treated patients with any bleeding (Grades 1-4) and 
clinically significant bleeding (Grades 2-4) was reduced from baseline by approximately 50% from 
Day 15 to the end of treatment throughout the 6-month treatment period. 
TRA100773B: 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of responders, defined as ITP patients who had an 
increase in platelet counts to 50 000/l at Day 43 from a baseline of <30 000/l; patients who 
withdrew prematurely due to a platelet count 200 000/l were considered responders, those that 
discontinued for any other reason were considered non-responders irrespective of platelet count. A 
total of 114 patients with previously treated ITP were randomised 2:1 eltrombopag (n=76) to placebo 
(n=38). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Efficacy results from TRA100773B 
Key primary endpoints 
Eligible for efficacy analysis, n 
Patients with platelet count 50 000/l after up to 42 days 
of dosing (compared to a baseline count of <30 000/l), n 
(%) 
p-valuea 
Key secondary endpoints 
Patients with a Day 43 bleeding assessment, n 
Bleeding (WHO Grades 1-4) n (%) 
p-valuea 
Eltrombopag 
N=74 
73 
43 (59) 
Placebo 
N=38 
37 
6 (16) 
<0.001 
51 
20 (39) 
30 
18 (60) 
0.029 
a 
Logistic regression model adjusted for randomisation stratification variables 
In both RAISE and TRA100773B the response to eltrombopag relative to placebo was similar 
irrespective of ITP medicinal product use, splenectomy status and baseline platelet count (≤15 000/µl, 
>15 000/µl) at randomisation. 
In RAISE and TRA100773B studies, in the subgroup of ITP patients with baseline platelet count 
≤15 000/μl the median platelet counts did not reach the target level (>50 000/l), although in both 
studies 43% of these patients treated with eltrombopag responded after 6 weeks of treatment. In 
addition, in the RAISE study, 42% of patients with baseline platelet count ≤15 000/μl treated with 
eltrombopag responded at the end of the 6-month treatment period. Forty-two to 60% of the 
eltrombopag-treated patients in the RAISE study were receiving 75 mg from Day 29 to the end of 
treatment. 
Open-label non-controlled studies 
REPEAT (TRA108057): 
This open-label, repeat-dose study (3 cycles of 6 weeks of treatment, followed by 4 weeks off 
treatment) showed that episodic use with multiple courses of eltrombopag has demonstrated no loss of 
response. 
EXTEND (TRA105325): 
Eltrombopag was administered to 302 ITP patients in this open-label extension study, 218 patients 
completed 1 year, 180 completed 2 years, 107 completed 3 years, 75 completed 4 years, 34 completed 
5 years and 18 completed 6 years. The median baseline platelet count was 19 000/l prior to 
eltrombopag administration. Median platelet counts at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 years on study were 
85 000/l, 85 000/l, 105 000/l, 64 000/l, 75 000/l, 119 000/l and 76 000/l, respectively. 
TAPER (CETB115J2411): 
This was a single-arm phase II study including ITP patients treated with eltrombopag after first-line 
corticosteroid failure irrespective of time since diagnosis. A total of 105 patients were enrolled on the 
study and started eltrombopag treatment on 50 mg once daily (25 mg once daily for patients of East-
/Southeast-Asian ancestry). The dose of eltrombopag was adjusted during the treatment period based 
on individual platelet counts with the goal to achieve a platelet count ≥100 000/l. 
Of the 105 patients who were enrolled in the study and who received at least one dose of eltrombopag, 
69 patients (65.7%) completed treatment and 36 patients (34.3%) discontinued treatment early. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of sustained response off treatment 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with sustained response off treatment until 
Month 12. Patients who reached a platelet count of ≥100 000/µl and maintained platelet counts around 
100 000/µl for 2 months (no counts below 70 000/µl) were eligible for tapering off eltrombopag and 
treatment discontinuation. To be considered as having achieved a sustained response off treatment, a 
patient had to maintain platelet counts ≥30 000/µl, in the absence of bleeding events or the use of 
rescue therapy, both during the treatment tapering period and following discontinuation of treatment 
until Month 12. 
The duration of tapering was individualised depending on the starting dose and the response of the 
patient. The tapering schedule recommended dose reductions of 25 mg every 2 weeks if the platelet 
counts were stable. After the daily dose was reduced to 25 mg for 2 weeks, the dose of 25 mg was then 
only administered on alternate days for 2 weeks until treatment discontinuation. The tapering was 
done in smaller decrements of 12.5 mg every second week for patients of East-/Southeast-Asian 
ancestry. If a relapse (defined as platelet count <30 000/µl) occurred, patients were offered a new 
course of eltrombopag at the appropriate starting dose. 
Eighty-nine patients (84.8%) achieved a complete response (platelet count ≥100 000/µl) (Step 1, 
Table 6) and 65 patients (61.9%) maintained the complete response for at least 2 months with no 
platelet counts below 70 000/µl (Step 2, Table 6). Forty-four patients (41.9%) were able to be tapered 
off eltrombopag until treatment discontinuation while maintaining platelet counts ≥30 000/µl in the 
absence of bleeding events or the use of rescue therapy (Step 3, Table 6). 
The study met the primary objective by demonstrating that eltrombopag was able to induce sustained 
response off treatment, in the absence of bleeding events or the use of rescue therapy, by Month 12 in 
32 of the 105 enrolled patients (30.5%; p<0.0001; 95% CI: 21.9, 40.2) (Step 4, Table 6). By Month 24, 
20 of the 105 enrolled patients (19.0%; 95% CI: 12.0, 27.9) maintained sustained response off 
treatment in the absence of bleeding events or the use of rescue therapy (Step 5, Table 6). 
The median duration of sustained response after treatment discontinuation to Month 12 was 
33.3 weeks (min-max: 4-51), and the median duration of sustained response after treatment 
discontinuation to Month 24 was 88.6 weeks (min-max: 57-107). 
After tapering off and discontinuation of eltrombopag treatment, 12 patients had a loss of response, 8 
of them re-started eltrombopag and 7 had a recovery response. 
During the 2-year follow-up, 6 out of 105 patients (5.7%) experienced thromboembolic events, of 
which 3 patients (2.9%) experienced deep vein thrombosis, 1 patient (1.0%) experienced superficial 
vein thrombosis, 1 patient (1.0%) experienced cavernous sinus thrombosis, 1 patient (1.0%) 
experienced cerebrovascular accident and 1 patient (1.0%) experienced pulmonary embolism. Of the 
6 patients, 4 patients experienced thromboembolic events that were reported at or greater than 
Grade 3, and 4 patients experienced thromboembolic event that were reported as serious. No fatal 
cases were reported. 
Twenty out of 105 patients (19.0%) experienced mild to severe haemorrhage events on treatment 
before tapering started. Five out of 65 patients (7.7%) who started tapering experienced mild to 
moderate haemorrhage events during tapering. No severe haemorrhage event occurred during tapering. 
Two out of 44 patients (4.5%) who tapered off and discontinued eltrombopag treatment experienced 
mild to moderate haemorrhage events after treatment discontinuation until Month 12. No severe 
haemorrhage event occurred during this period. None of the patients who discontinued eltrombopag 
and entered the second year follow-up experienced haemorrhage event during the second year. Two 
fatal intracranial haemorrhage events were reported during the 2-year follow-up. Both events occurred 
on treatment, not in the context of tapering. The events were not considered to be related to study 
treatment. 
The overall safety analysis is consistent with previously reported data and the risk-benefit assessment 
remained unchanged for the use of eltrombopag in patients with ITP. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 
Proportion of patients with sustained response off treatment at Month 12 and at 
Month 24 (full analysis set) in TAPER 
Step 1: Patients who reached platelet count ≥100 000/µl at least 
once 
All patients 
N=105 
n (%) 
89 (84.8) 
95% CI 
(76.4, 91.0) 
Hypothesis testing 
p-value  Reject H0 
Step 2: Patients who maintained stable platelet count for 
65 (61.9) 
(51.9, 71.2) 
2 months after reaching 100 000/µl (no counts 
<70 000/µl) 
Step 3: Patients who were able to be tapered off eltrombopag 
44 (41.9) 
(32.3, 51.9) 
until treatment discontinuation, maintaining platelet count 
≥30 000/µl in the absence of bleeding events or use of 
any rescue therapy 
Step 4: Patients with sustained response off treatment until 
32 (30.5) 
(21.9, 40.2)  <0.0001* 
Yes 
Month 12, with platelet count maintained ≥30 000/µl in 
the absence of bleeding events or use of any rescue 
therapy 
Step 5: Patients with sustained response off treatment from 
Month 12 to Month 24, maintaining platelet count 
≥30 000/µl in the absence of bleeding events or use of 
any rescue therapy 
20 (19.0) 
(12.0, 27.9) 
N: The total number of patients in the treatment group. This is the denominator for percentage (%) calculation. 
n: Number of patients in the corresponding category. 
The 95% CI for the frequency distribution was computed using Clopper-Pearson exact method. Clopper-Pearson test was used 
for testing whether the proportion of responders was >15%. CI and p-values are reported. 
* Indicates statistical significance (one-sided) at the 0.05 level. 
Results of response on treatment analysis by time since ITP diagnosis 
An ad-hoc analysis was conducted on the n=105 patients by time since ITP diagnosis to assess the 
response to eltrombopag across four different ITP categories by time since diagnosis (newly diagnosed 
ITP <3 months, persistent ITP 3 to <6 months, persistent ITP 6 to ≤12 months, and chronic ITP 
>12 months). 49% of patients (n=51) had an ITP diagnosis of <3 months, 20% (n=21) of 3 to 
<6 months, 17% (n=18) of 6 to ≤12 months and 14% (n=15) of >12 months. 
Until the cut-off date (22-Oct-2021), patients were exposed to eltrombopag for a median (Q1-Q3) 
duration of 6.2 months (2.3-12.0 months). The median (Q1-Q3) platelet count at baseline was 
16 000/l (7 800-28 000/l). 
Platelet count response, defined as a platelet count ≥50 000/l at least once by Week 9 without rescue 
therapy, was achieved in 84% (95% CI: 71% to 93%) of newly diagnosed ITP patients, 91% (95% CI: 
70% to 99%) and 94% (95% CI: 73% to 100%) of persistent ITP patients (i.e. with ITP diagnosis 3 to 
<6 months and 6 to ≤12 months, respectively), and in 87% (95% CI: 60% to 98%) of chronic ITP 
patients. 
The rate of complete response, defined as platelet count ≥100 000/l at least once by Week 9 without 
rescue therapy, was 75% (95% CI: 60% to 86%) in newly diagnosed ITP patients, 76% (95% CI: 53% 
to 92%) and 72% (95% CI: 47% to 90%) in persistent ITP patients (ITP diagnosis 3 to <6 months and 
6 to ≤12 months, respectively), and 87% (95% CI: 60% to 98%) in chronic ITP patients. 
The rate of durable response, defined as a platelet count ≥50 000/l for at least 6 out of 8 consecutive 
assessments without rescue therapy during the first 6 months on study, was 71% (95% CI: 56% to 83%) 
in newly diagnosed ITP patients, 81% (95% CI: 58% to 95%) and 72% (95% CI: 47% to 90.3%) in 
persistent ITP patients (ITP diagnosis 3 to <6 months and 6 to ≤12 months, respectively), and 80% (95% 
CI: 52% to 96%) in chronic ITP patients. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When assessed with the WHO Bleeding Scale, the proportion of newly diagnosed and persistent ITP 
patients without bleeding at Week 4 ranged from 88% to 95% compared to 37% to 57% at baseline. 
For chronic ITP patients it was 93% compared to 73% at baseline. 
The safety of eltrombopag was consistent across all ITP categories and in line with its known safety 
profile. 
Clinical studies comparing eltrombopag to other treatment options (e.g. splenectomy) have not been 
conducted. The long-term safety of eltrombopag should be considered prior to starting therapy. 
Paediatric population (aged 1 to 17 years) 
The safety and efficacy of eltrombopag in paediatric patients have been investigated in two studies. 
TRA115450 (PETIT2): 
The primary endpoint was a sustained response, defined as the proportion of patients receiving 
eltrombopag, compared to placebo, achieving platelet counts ≥50 000/µl for at least 6 out of 8 weeks 
(in the absence of rescue therapy), between weeks 5 to 12 during the double-blind randomised period. 
Patients were diagnosed with chronic ITP for at least 1 year and were refractory or relapsed to at least 
one prior ITP therapy or unable to continue other ITP treatments for a medical reason and had platelet 
count <30 000/µl. Ninety-two patients were randomised by three age cohort strata (2:1) to 
eltrombopag (n=63) or placebo (n=29). The dose of eltrombopag could be adjusted based on 
individual platelet counts. 
Overall, a significantly greater proportion of eltrombopag patients (40%) compared with placebo 
patients (3%) achieved the primary endpoint (Odds Ratio: 18.0 [95% CI: 2.3, 140.9] p <0.001) which 
was similar across the three age cohorts (Table 7). 
Table 7 
Sustained platelet response rates by age cohort in paediatric patients with chronic 
ITP 
Cohort 1 (12 to 17 years) 
Cohort 2 (6 to 11 years) 
Cohort 3 (1 to 5 years) 
Eltrombopag 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
9/23 (39%) 
[20%, 61%] 
11/26 (42%) 
[23%, 63%] 
5/14 (36%) 
[13%, 65%] 
Placebo 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
1/10 (10%) 
[0%, 45%] 
0/13 (0%) 
[N/A] 
0/6 (0%) 
[N/A] 
Statistically fewer eltrombopag patients required rescue treatment during the randomised period 
compared to placebo patients (19% [12/63] vs. 24% [7/29], p=0.032). 
At baseline, 71% of patients in the eltrombopag group and 69% in the placebo group reported any 
bleeding (WHO Grades 1-4). At Week 12, the proportion of eltrombopag patients reporting any 
bleeding was decreased to half of baseline (36%). In comparison, at Week 12, 55% of placebo patients 
reported any bleeding. 
Patients were permitted to reduce or discontinue baseline ITP therapy only during the open-label phase 
of the study and 53% (8/15) of patients were able to reduce (n=1) or discontinue (n=7) baseline ITP 
therapy, mainly corticosteroids, without needing rescue therapy. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRA108062 (PETIT): 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients achieving platelet counts ≥50 000/µl at least once 
between weeks 1 and 6 of the randomised period. Patients were diagnosed with ITP for at least 
6 months and were refractory or relapsed to at least one prior ITP therapy with a platelet count 
<30 000/µl (n=67). During the randomised period of the study, patients were randomised by three age 
cohort strata (2:1) to eltrombopag (n=45) or placebo (n=22). The dose of eltrombopag could be 
adjusted based on individual platelet counts. 
Overall, a significantly greater proportion of eltrombopag patients (62%) compared with placebo 
patients (32%) met the primary endpoint (Odds Ratio: 4.3 [95% CI: 1.4, 13.3] p=0.011). 
Sustained response was seen in 50% of the initial responders during 20 out of 24 weeks in the 
PETIT 2 study and 15 out of 24 weeks in the PETIT study. 
Chronic hepatitis C associated thrombocytopenia studies 
The efficacy and safety of eltrombopag for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with HCV 
infection were evaluated in two randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. ENABLE 1 
utilised peginterferon alfa-2a plus ribavirin for antiviral treatment and ENABLE 2 utilised 
peginterferon alfa-2b plus ribavirin. Patients did not receive direct acting antiviral agents. In both 
studies, patients with a platelet count of <75 000/µl were enrolled and stratified by platelet count 
(<50 000/µl and ≥50 000/µl to <75 000/µl), screening HCV RNA (<800 000 IU/ml and 
≥800 000 IU/ml), and HCV genotype (genotype 2/3, and genotype 1/4/6). 
Baseline disease characteristics were similar in both studies and were consistent with compensated 
cirrhotic HCV patient population. The majority of patients were HCV genotype 1 (64%) and had 
bridging fibrosis/cirrhosis. Thirty-one percent of patients had been treated with prior HCV therapies, 
primarily pegylated interferon plus ribavirin. The median baseline platelet count was 59 500/µl in both 
treatment groups: 0.8%, 28% and 72% of the patients recruited had platelet counts <20 000/µl, 
<50 000/µl and ≥50 000/µl respectively. 
The studies consisted of two phases – a pre-antiviral treatment phase and an antiviral treatment phase. 
In the pre-antiviral treatment phase, patients received open-label eltrombopag to increase the platelet 
count to ≥90 000/µl for ENABLE 1 and ≥100 000/µl for ENABLE 2. The median time to achieve the 
target platelet count ≥90 000/µl (ENABLE 1) or ≥100 000/µl (ENABLE 2) was 2 weeks. 
The primary efficacy endpoint for both studies was sustained virologic response (SVR), defined as the 
percentage of patients with no detectable HCV-RNA at 24 weeks after completion of the planned 
treatment period. 
In both HCV studies, a significantly greater proportion of patients treated with eltrombopag (n=201, 
21%) achieved SVR compared to those treated with placebo (n=65, 13%) (see Table 8). The 
improvement in the proportion of patients who achieved SVR was consistent across all subgroups in 
the randomisation strata (baseline platelet counts (<50 000 vs. >50 000), viral load (<800 000 IU/ml 
vs. ≥800 000 IU/ml) and genotype (2/3 vs. 1/4/6)). 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
Virologic response in HCV patients in ENABLE 1 and ENABLE 2 
Pooled data 
ENABLE 1a 
ENABLE 2b 
1 439/1 520 (95%) 
680/715 (95%) 
759/805 (94%) 
Eltrombopag 
n=956 
Placebo 
n=485 
Eltrombopag 
n=450 
Placebo 
n=232 
Eltrombopag 
n=506 
Placebo 
n=253 
Patients achieving 
target platelet counts 
and initiating antiviral 
therapy c 
Total number of 
patients entering 
antiviral treatment 
phase 
Overall SVR d  
HCV RNA Genotype 
Genotype 2/3 
Genotype 1/4/6e 
Albumin levels f 
≤ 35g/l 
> 35g/l 
MELD scoref 
≥ 10  
< 10 
a 
21 
35 
15 
11 
25 
18 
23 
% patients achieving virologic response 
19 
23 
14 
13 
35 
18 
24 
10 
34 
13 
25 
8 
8 
16 
10 
17 
13 
25 
7 
Eltrombopag given in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a (180 μg once weekly for 
48 weeks for genotypes 1/4/6; 24 weeks for genotype 2/3) plus ribavirin (800 to 1 200 mg daily 
in 2 divided doses orally) 
Eltrombopag given in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b (1.5 μg/kg once weekly for 
48 weeks for genotype 1/4/6; 24 weeks for genotype 2/3) plus ribavirin (800 to 1 400 mg orally 
in 2 divided doses) 
Target platelet count was 90 000/µl for ENABLE 1 and 100 000/µl for ENABLE 2. For 
ENABLE 1, 682 patients were randomised to the antiviral treatment phase; however 2 patients 
then withdrew consent prior to receiving antiviral therapy 
p-value <0.05 for eltrombopag versus placebo 
64% patients participating in ENABLE 1 and ENABLE 2 were genotype 1 
Post-hoc analyses 
b 
c 
d 
e 
f 
Other secondary findings of the studies included the following: significantly fewer patients treated 
with eltrombopag prematurely discontinued antiviral therapy compared to placebo (45% vs. 60%, 
p=<0.0001). A greater proportion of patients on eltrombopag did not require any antiviral dose 
reduction as compared to placebo (45% vs. 27%). Eltrombopag treatment delayed and reduced the 
number of peginterferon dose reductions. 
Severe aplastic anaemia 
Eltrombopag was studied in a single-arm, single-centre open-label study in 43 patients with severe 
aplastic anaemia with refractory thrombocytopenia following at least one prior immunosuppressive 
therapy (IST) and who had a platelet count ≤30 000/µl. 
The majority of patients, 33 (77%), were considered to have ‘primary refractory disease’, defined as 
having no prior adequate response to IST in any lineage. The remaining 10 patients had insufficient 
platelet response to prior therapies. All 10 had received at least 2 prior IST regimens and 50% had 
received at least 3 prior IST regimens. Patients with diagnosis of Fanconi anaemia, infection not 
responding to appropriate therapy, PNH clone size in neutrophils of ≥50%, where excluded from 
participation. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At baseline the median platelet count was 20 000/µl, haemoglobin was 8.4 g/dl, ANC was 0.58 x 109/l 
and absolute reticulocyte count was 24.3 x 109/l. Eighty-six percent of patients were RBC transfusion 
dependent, and 91% were platelet transfusion dependent. The majority of patients (84%) had received 
at least 2 prior immunosuppressive therapies. Three patients had cytogenetic abnormalities at baseline. 
The primary endpoint was haematological response assessed after 12 weeks of eltrombopag treatment. 
Haematological response was defined as meeting one or more of the following criteria: 1) platelet 
count increases to 20 000/µl above baseline or stable platelet counts with transfusion independence for 
a minimum of 8 weeks; 2) haemoglobin increase by >1.5g/dl, or a reduction in ≥4 units of red blood 
cell (RBC) transfusions for 8 consecutive weeks; 3) absolute neutrophil count (ANC) increase of 
100% or an ANC increase >0.5 x 109/l. 
The haematological response rate was 40% (17/43 patients; 95% CI 25, 56), the majority were 
unilineage responses (13/17, 76%) whilst there were 3 bilineage and 1 trilineage responses at week 12. 
Eltrombopag was discontinued after 16 weeks if no haematological response or transfusion 
independence was observed. Patients who responded continued therapy in an extension phase of the 
study. A total of 14 patients entered the extension phase of the trial. Nine of these patients achieved a 
multi-lineage response, 4 of the 9 remain on treatment and 5 tapered off treatment with eltrombopag 
and maintained the response (median follow up: 20.6 months, range: 5.7 to 22.5 months). The 
remaining 5 patients discontinued treatment, three due to relapse at the month 3 extension visit. 
During treatment with eltrombopag 59% (23/39) became platelet transfusion independent (28 days 
without platelet transfusion) and 27% (10/37) became RBC transfusion independent (56 days without 
RBC transfusion). The longest platelet transfusion-free period for non-responders was 27 days 
(median). The longest platelet transfusion-free period for responders was 287 days (median). The 
longest RBC transfusion-free period for non-responders was 29 days (median). The longest RBC 
transfusion-free period for responders was 266 days (median). 
Over 50% of responders who were transfusion-dependent at baseline, had >80% reduction in both 
platelet and RBC transfusion requirements compared to baseline. 
Preliminary results from a supportive study (Study ELT116826), an ongoing non-randomised, 
phase II, single-arm, open-label study in refractory SAA patients, showed consistent results. Data are 
limited to 21 out of the planned 60 patients with haematological responses reported by 52% of patients 
at 6 months. Multilineage responses were reported by 45% of patients. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetics 
The plasma eltrombopag concentration-time data collected in 88 patients with ITP in studies 
TRA100773A and TRA100773B were combined with data from 111 healthy adult subjects in a 
population PK analysis. Plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) and Cmax estimates for ITP patients are 
presented (Table 9). 
Table 9 
Geometric mean (95% confidence intervals) of steady-state plasma eltrombopag 
pharmacokinetic parameters in adults with ITP 
Eltrombopag dose, 
once daily 
30 mg 
50 mg 
75 mg 
N 
28 
34 
26 
AUC(0-)
a, g.h/ml 
Cmax
a, g/ml 
47 (39, 58) 
108 (88, 134) 
168 (143, 198) 
3.78 (3.18, 4.49) 
8.01 (6.73, 9.53) 
12.7 (11.0, 14.5) 
a 
AUC(0-) and Cmax based on population PK post-hoc estimates. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plasma eltrombopag concentration-time data collected in 590 patients with HCV enrolled in phase III 
studies TPL103922/ENABLE 1 and TPL108390/ENABLE 2 were combined with data from patients 
with HCV enrolled in the phase II study TPL102357 and healthy adult subjects in a population PK 
analysis. Plasma eltrombopag Cmax and AUC(0-) estimates for patients with HCV enrolled in the 
phase III studies are presented for each dose studied in Table 10. 
Table 10  Geometric mean (95% CI) steady-state plasma eltrombopag pharmacokinetic 
parameters in patients with chronic HCV 
Eltrombopag dose 
(once daily) 
25 mg 
50 mg 
75 mg 
100 mg 
N 
330 
119 
45 
96 
AUC(0-) 
(g.h/ml) 
118 
(109, 128) 
166 
(143, 192) 
301 
(250, 363) 
354 
(304, 411) 
Cmax 
(g/ml) 
6.40 
(5.97, 6.86) 
9.08 
(7.96, 10.35) 
16.71 
(14.26, 19.58) 
19.19 
(16.81, 21.91) 
Data presented as geometric mean (95% CI). 
AUC (0-) and Cmax based on population PK post-hoc estimates at the highest dose in the data for each 
patient. 
Absorption and bioavailability 
Eltrombopag is absorbed with a peak concentration occurring 2 to 6 hours after oral administration. 
Administration of eltrombopag concomitantly with antacids and other products containing polyvalent 
cations such as dairy products and mineral supplements significantly reduces eltrombopag exposure 
(see section 4.2). In a relative bioavailability study in adults, the eltrombopag powder for oral 
suspension delivered 22% higher plasma AUC(0-) than the film-coated tablet formulation. The 
absolute oral bioavailability of eltrombopag after administration to humans has not been established. 
Based on urinary excretion and metabolites eliminated in faeces, the oral absorption of drug-related 
material following administration of a single 75 mg eltrombopag solution dose was estimated to be at 
least 52%. 
Distribution 
Eltrombopag is highly bound to human plasma proteins (>99.9%), predominantly to albumin. 
Eltrombopag is a substrate for BCRP, but is not a substrate for P-glycoprotein or OATP1B1. 
Biotransformation 
Eltrombopag is primarily metabolised through cleavage, oxidation and conjugation with glucuronic 
acid, glutathione, or cysteine. In a human radiolabel study, eltrombopag accounted for approximately 
64% of plasma radiocarbon AUC0-. Minor metabolites due to glucuronidation and oxidation were 
also detected. In vitro studies suggest that CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 are responsible for oxidative 
metabolism of eltrombopag. Uridine diphosphoglucuronyl transferase UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 are 
responsible for glucuronidation, and bacteria in the lower gastrointestinal tract may be responsible for 
the cleavage pathway. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
Absorbed eltrombopag is extensively metabolised. The predominant route of eltrombopag excretion is 
via faeces (59%) with 31% of the dose found in the urine as metabolites. Unchanged parent compound 
(eltrombopag) is not detected in urine. Unchanged eltrombopag excreted in faeces accounts for 
approximately 20% of the dose. The plasma elimination half-life of eltrombopag is approximately 
21-32 hours. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Based on a human study with radiolabelled eltrombopag, glucuronidation plays a minor role in the 
metabolism of eltrombopag. Human liver microsome studies identified UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 as the 
enzymes responsible for eltrombopag glucuronidation. Eltrombopag was an inhibitor of a number of 
UGT enzymes in vitro. Clinically significant drug interactions involving glucuronidation are not 
anticipated due to limited contribution of individual UGT enzymes in the glucuronidation of 
eltrombopag. 
Approximately 21% of an eltrombopag dose could undergo oxidative metabolism. Human liver 
microsome studies identified CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 as the enzymes responsible for eltrombopag 
oxidation. Eltrombopag does not inhibit or induce CYP enzymes based on in vitro and in vivo data 
(see section 4.5). 
In vitro studies demonstrate that eltrombopag is an inhibitor of the OATP1B1 transporter and an 
inhibitor of the BCRP transporter and eltrombopag increased exposure of the OATP1B1 and BCRP 
substrate rosuvastatin in a clinical drug interaction study (see section 4.5). In clinical studies with 
eltrombopag, a dose reduction of statins by 50% was recommended. 
Eltrombopag chelates with polyvalent cations such as iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, selenium 
and zinc (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
In vitro studies demonstrated that eltrombopag is not a substrate for the organic anion transporter 
polypeptide, OATP1B1, but is an inhibitor of this transporter (IC50 value of 2.7 μM [1.2 μg/ml]). In 
vitro studies also demonstrated that eltrombopag is a breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrate 
and inhibitor (IC50 value of 2.7 μM [1.2 μg/ml]). 
Special patient populations 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag have been studied after administration of eltrombopag to adult 
patients with renal impairment. Following administration of a single 50 mg dose, the AUC0- of 
eltrombopag was 32% to 36% lower in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, and 60% 
lower in patients with severe renal impairment compared with healthy volunteers. There was 
substantial variability and significant overlap in exposures between patients with renal impairment and 
healthy volunteers. Unbound eltrombopag (active) concentrations for this highly protein-bound 
medicinal product were not measured. Patients with impaired renal function should use eltrombopag 
with caution and close monitoring, for example by testing serum creatinine and/or urine analysis (see 
section 4.2). The efficacy and safety of eltrombopag have not been established in patients with both 
moderate to severe renal impairment and hepatic impairment. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag have been studied after administration of eltrombopag to adult 
patients with hepatic impairment. Following the administration of a single 50 mg dose, the AUC0- of 
eltrombopag was 41% higher in patients with mild hepatic impairment and 80% to 93% higher in 
patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment compared with healthy volunteers. There was 
substantial variability and significant overlap in exposures between patients with hepatic impairment 
and healthy volunteers. Unbound eltrombopag (active) concentrations for this highly protein-bound 
medicinal product were not measured. 
The influence of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag following repeat 
administration was evaluated using a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 28 healthy adults and 
714 patients with hepatic impairment (673 patients with HCV and 41 patients with chronic liver 
disease of other aetiology). Of the 714 patients, 642 were with mild hepatic impairment, 67 with 
moderate hepatic impairment, and 2 with severe hepatic impairment. Compared to healthy volunteers, 
patients with mild hepatic impairment had approximately 111% (95% CI: 45% to 283%) higher 
plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values and patients with moderate hepatic impairment had 
approximately 183% (95% CI: 90% to 459%) higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values. 
Therefore, eltrombopag should not be used in ITP patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 
≥5) unless the expected benefit outweighs the identified risk of portal venous thrombosis (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). For patients with HCV initiate eltrombopag at a dose of 25 mg once daily (see 
section 4.2). 
Race 
The influence of East-Asian ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag was evaluated using a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis in 111 healthy adults (31 East-Asians) and 88 patients with ITP 
(18 East-Asians). Based on estimates from the population pharmacokinetic analysis, East-Asian ITP 
patients had approximately 49% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values as compared to non-East-
Asian patients who were predominantly Caucasian (see section 4.2). 
The influence of East-/Southeast-Asian ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag was 
evaluated using a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 635 patients with HCV (145 East-Asians and 
69 Southeast-Asians). Based on estimates from the population pharmacokinetic analysis, East-
/Southeast-Asian patients had approximately 55% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values as 
compared to patients of other races who were predominantly Caucasian (see section 4.2). 
Gender 
The influence of gender on the pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag was evaluated using a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis in 111 healthy adults (14 females) and 88 patients with ITP (57 females). 
Based on estimates from the population pharmacokinetic analysis, female ITP patients had 
approximately 23% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) as compared to male patients, without 
adjustment for body weight differences. 
The influence of gender on eltrombopag pharmacokinetics was evaluated using population 
pharmacokinetics analysis in 635 patients with HCV (260 females). Based on model estimate, female 
HCV patient had approximately 41% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) as compared to male 
patients. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Age 
The influence of age on eltrombopag pharmacokinetics was evaluated using population 
pharmacokinetics analysis in 28 healthy subjects, 673 patients with HCV, and 41 patients with chronic 
liver disease of other aetiology ranging from 19 to 74 years old. There are no PK data on the use of 
eltrombopag in patients ≥75 years. Based on model estimate, elderly (≥65 years) patients had 
approximately 41% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) as compared to younger patients (see 
section 4.2). 
Paediatric population (aged 1 to 17 years) 
The pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag have been evaluated in 168 paediatric ITP patients dosed once 
daily in two studies, TRA108062/PETIT and TRA115450/PETIT-2. Plasma eltrombopag apparent 
clearance following oral administration (CL/F) increased with increasing body weight. The effects of 
race and sex on plasma eltrombopag CL/F estimates were consistent between paediatric and adult 
patients. East-/Southeast-Asian paediatric ITP patients had approximately 43% higher plasma 
eltrombopag AUC(0-) values as compared to non-Asian patients. Female paediatric ITP patients had 
approximately 25% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values as compared to male patients. 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of eltrombopag in paediatric patients with ITP are shown in 
Table 11. 
Table 11  Geometric mean (95% CI) steady-state plasma eltrombopag pharmacokinetic 
parameters in paediatric patients with ITP (50 mg once daily dosing regimen) 
Age 
12 to 17 years (n=62) 
6 to 11 years (n=68) 
1 to 5 years (n=38) 
Cmax 
(µg/ml) 
6.80 
(6.17, 7.50) 
10.3 
(9.42, 11.2) 
11.6 
(10.4, 12.9) 
AUC(0-) 
(µg.hr/ml) 
103 
(91.1, 116) 
153 
(137, 170) 
162 
(139, 187) 
Data presented as geometric mean (95%CI). AUC(0-) and Cmax based on population PK post-hoc 
estimates 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Safety pharmacology and repeat-dose toxicity 
Eltrombopag does not stimulate platelet production in mice, rats or dogs because of unique TPO 
receptor specificity. Therefore, data from these animals do not fully model potential adverse effects 
related to the pharmacology of eltrombopag in humans, including the reproduction and carcinogenicity 
studies. 
Treatment-related cataracts were detected in rodents and were dose and time-dependent. At ≥6 times 
the human clinical exposure in adult ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 3 times the human clinical 
exposure in adult HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC, cataracts were observed in mice after 
6 weeks and rats after 28 weeks of dosing. At 4 times the human clinical exposure in ITP patients at 
75 mg/day and 2 times the human exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC, cataracts 
were observed in mice after 13 weeks and in rats after 39 weeks of dosing. At non-tolerated doses in 
pre-weaning juvenile rats dosed from Days 4-32 (approximately equating to a 2-year-old human at the 
end of the dosing period), ocular opacities were observed (histology not performed) at 9 times the 
maximum human clinical exposure in paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day, based on AUC. However, 
cataracts were not observed in juvenile rats given tolerated doses at 5 times the human clinical 
exposure in paediatric ITP patients, based on AUC. Cataracts have not been observed in adult dogs 
after 52 weeks of dosing at 2 times the human clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP patients at 
75 mg/day and equivalent to the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on 
AUC). 
Renal tubular toxicity was observed in studies of up to 14 days duration in mice and rats at exposures 
that were generally associated with morbidity and mortality. Tubular toxicity was also observed in a 
2-year oral carcinogenicity study in mice at doses of 25, 75 and 150 mg/kg/day. Effects were less 
severe at lower doses and were characterised by a spectrum of regenerative changes. The exposure at 
the lowest dose was 1.2 or 0.8 times the human clinical exposure based on AUC in adult or paediatric 
ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 0.6 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, 
based on AUC. Renal effects were not observed in rats after 28 weeks or in dogs after 52 weeks at 
exposures 4 and 2 times the human clinical exposure in adult ITP patients and 3 and 2 times the 
human clinical exposure in paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times and equivalent to the 
human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC. 
Hepatocyte degeneration and/or necrosis, often accompanied by increased serum liver enzymes, was 
observed in mice, rats and dogs at doses that were associated with morbidity and mortality or were 
poorly tolerated. No hepatic effects were observed after chronic dosing in rats (28 weeks) and in dogs 
(52 weeks) at 4 or 2 times the human clinical exposure in adult ITP patients and 3 or 2 times the 
human clinical exposure in paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times or equivalent to the 
human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC. 
At poorly tolerated doses in rats and dogs (>10 or 7 times the human clinical exposure in adult or 
paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and>4 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 
100 mg/day, based on AUC), decreased reticulocyte counts and regenerative bone marrow erythroid 
hyperplasia (rats only) were observed in short-term studies. There were no effects of note on red cell 
mass or reticulocyte counts after dosing for up to 28 weeks in rats, 52 weeks in dogs and 2 years in 
mice or rats at maximally tolerated doses which were 2 to 4 times human clinical exposure in adult or 
paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and ≤2 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 
100 mg/day, based on AUC. 
Endosteal hyperostosis was observed in a 28-week toxicity study in rats at a non-tolerated dose of 
60 mg/kg/day (6 times or 4 times the human clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP patients at 
75 mg/day and 3 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC). 
There were no bone changes observed in mice or rats after lifetime exposure (2 years) at 4 times or 
2 times the human clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times the 
human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity 
Eltrombopag was not carcinogenic in mice at doses up to 75 mg/kg/day or in rats at doses up to 
40 mg/kg/day (exposures up to 4 or 2 times the human clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP 
patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based 
on AUC). Eltrombopag was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a bacterial mutation assay or in two in 
vivo assays in rats (micronucleus and unscheduled DNA synthesis, 10 times or 8 times the human 
clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 7 times the human clinical 
exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on Cmax). In the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay, 
eltrombopag was marginally positive (<3-fold increase in mutation frequency). These in vitro and in 
vivo findings suggest that eltrombopag does not pose a genotoxic risk to humans. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Eltrombopag did not affect female fertility, early embryonic development or embryofoetal 
development in rats at doses up to 20 mg/kg/day (2 times the human clinical exposure in adult or 
adolescent (12-17 years old) ITP patients at 75 mg/day and equivalent to the human clinical exposure 
in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC). Also there was no effect on embryofoetal 
development in rabbits at doses up to 150 mg/kg/day, the highest dose tested (0.3 to 0.5 times the 
human clinical exposure in ITP patients at 75 mg/day and HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on 
AUC). However, at a maternally toxic dose of 60 mg/kg/day (6 times the human clinical exposure in 
ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 3 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, 
based on AUC) in rats, eltrombopag treatment was associated with embryo lethality (increased pre- 
and post-implantation loss), reduced foetal body weight and gravid uterine weight in the female 
fertility study and a low incidence of cervical ribs and reduced foetal body weight in the embryofoetal 
development study. Eltrombopag should be used during pregnancy only if the expected benefit 
justifies the potential risk to the foetus (see section 4.6). Eltrombopag did not affect male fertility in 
rats at doses up to 40 mg/kg/day, the highest dose tested (3 times the human clinical exposure in ITP 
patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based 
on AUC). In the pre- and post-natal development study in rats, there were no undesirable effects on 
pregnancy, parturition or lactation of F0 female rats at maternally non-toxic doses (10 and 
20 mg/kg/day) and no effects on the growth, development, neurobehavioural or reproductive function 
of the offspring (F1). Eltrombopag was detected in the plasma of all F1 rat pups for the entire 22 hour 
sampling period following administration of medicinal product to the F0 dams, suggesting that rat pup 
exposure to eltrombopag was likely via lactation. 
Phototoxicity 
In vitro studies with eltrombopag suggest a potential phototoxicity risk; however, in rodents there was 
no evidence of cutaneous phototoxicity (10 or 7 times the human clinical exposure in adult or 
paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 5 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 
100 mg/day, based on AUC) or ocular phototoxicity (4 times the human clinical exposure in adult or 
paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 3 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 
100 mg/day, based on AUC). Furthermore, a clinical pharmacology study in 36 subjects showed no 
evidence that photosensitivity was increased following administration of eltrombopag 75 mg. This was 
measured by delayed phototoxic index. Nevertheless, a potential risk of photoallergy cannot be ruled 
out since no specific preclinical study could be performed. 
Juvenile animal studies 
At non-tolerated doses in pre-weaning rats, ocular opacities were observed. At tolerated doses, no 
ocular opacities were observed (see above subsection ‘Safety pharmacology and repeat-dose toxicity’). 
In conclusion, taking into account the exposure margins based on AUC, a risk of eltrombopag-related 
cataracts in paediatric patients cannot be excluded. There are no findings in juvenile rats to suggest a 
greater risk of toxicity with eltrombopag treatment in paediatric vs. adult ITP patients. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Magnesium stearate 
Mannitol (E421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Povidone 
Sodium starch glycolate 
Tablet coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Macrogol 400 (E1521) 
Polysorbate 80 (E433) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Magnesium stearate 
Mannitol (E421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Povidone 
Sodium starch glycolate 
Tablet coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Macrogol 400 (E1521) 
Polysorbate 80 (E433) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Magnesium stearate 
Mannitol (E421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Povidone 
Sodium starch glycolate 
Tablet coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Macrogol 400 (E1521) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Magnesium stearate 
Mannitol (E421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Povidone 
Sodium starch glycolate 
Tablet coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Macrogol 400 (E1521) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Film-coated tablets 
Aluminum blisters (PA/Alu/PVC/Alu) in a carton containing 14 or 28 film-coated tablets and 
multipacks containing 84 (3 packs of 28) film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/10/612/010 
EU/1/10/612/011 
EU/1/10/612/012 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/10/612/001 
EU/1/10/612/002 
EU/1/10/612/003 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/10/612/004 
EU/1/10/612/005 
EU/1/10/612/006 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/10/612/007 
EU/1/10/612/008 
EU/1/10/612/009 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 March 2010 
Date of latest renewal: 15 January 2015 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 25 mg powder for oral suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each sachet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 25 mg of eltrombopag. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for oral suspension 
Reddish-brown to yellow powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Revolade is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins) (see sections 4.2 and 
5.1). 
Revolade is indicated for the treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year and above with primary 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) lasting 6 months or longer from diagnosis and who are refractory to 
other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins) (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Revolade is indicated in adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection for the treatment 
of thrombocytopenia, where the degree of thrombocytopenia is the main factor preventing the 
initiation or limiting the ability to maintain optimal interferon-based therapy (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Revolade is indicated in adult patients with acquired severe aplastic anaemia (SAA) who were either 
refractory to prior immunosuppressive therapy or heavily pretreated and are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Eltrombopag treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician who is 
experienced in the treatment of haematological diseases or the management of chronic hepatitis C and 
its complications. 
Posology 
Eltrombopag dosing requirements must be individualised based on the patient’s platelet counts. The 
objective of treatment with eltrombopag should not be to normalise platelet counts. 
The powder for oral suspension may lead to higher eltrombopag exposure than the tablet formulation 
(see section 5.2). When switching between the tablet and the powder for oral suspension formulations, 
platelet counts should be monitored weekly for 2 weeks. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune (primary) thrombocytopenia 
The lowest dose of eltrombopag to achieve and maintain a platelet count ≥50 000/µl should be used. 
Dose adjustments are based upon the platelet count response. Eltrombopag must not be used to 
normalise platelet counts. In clinical studies, platelet counts generally increased within 1 to 2 weeks 
after starting eltrombopag and decreased within 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation. 
Adults and paediatric population aged 6 to 17 years 
The recommended starting dose of eltrombopag is 50 mg once daily. For patients of East-/Southeast-
Asian ancestry, eltrombopag should be initiated at a reduced dose of 25 mg once daily (see 
section 5.2). 
Paediatric population aged 1 to 5 years 
The recommended starting dose of eltrombopag is 25 mg once daily. 
Monitoring and dose adjustment 
After initiating eltrombopag, the dose must be adjusted to achieve and maintain a platelet count 
≥50 000/µl as necessary to reduce the risk for bleeding. A daily dose of 75 mg must not be exceeded. 
Clinical haematology and liver tests should be monitored regularly throughout therapy with 
eltrombopag and the dose regimen of eltrombopag modified based on platelet counts as outlined in 
Table 1. During therapy with eltrombopag full blood counts (FBCs), including platelet count and 
peripheral blood smears, should be assessed weekly until a stable platelet count (≥50 000/µl for at 
least 4 weeks) has been achieved. FBCs including platelet counts and peripheral blood smears should 
be obtained monthly thereafter. 
Table 1 
Dose adjustments of eltrombopag in ITP patients 
Platelet count 
<50 000/µl following at least 
2 weeks of therapy 
50 000/µl to 150 000/µl 
>150 000/µl to 250 000/µl 
>250 000/µl 
Dose adjustment or response 
Increase daily dose by 25 mg to a maximum of 75 mg/day*. 
Use lowest dose of eltrombopag and/or concomitant ITP 
treatment to maintain platelet counts that avoid or reduce 
bleeding. 
Decrease the daily dose by 25 mg. Wait 2 weeks to assess the 
effects of this and any subsequent dose adjustments♦. 
Stop eltrombopag; increase the frequency of platelet monitoring 
to twice weekly. 
Once the platelet count is ≤100 000/µl, reinitiate therapy at a 
daily dose reduced by 25 mg. 
* 
♦ 
For patients taking 25 mg eltrombopag once every other day, increase dose to 25 mg once daily. 
For patients taking 25 mg eltrombopag once daily, consideration should be given to dosing at 
12.5 mg once daily or alternatively a dose of 25 mg once every other day. 
Eltrombopag can be administered in addition to other ITP medicinal products. The dose regimen of 
concomitant ITP medicinal products should be modified, as medically appropriate, to avoid excessive 
increases in platelet counts during therapy with eltrombopag. 
It is necessary to wait for at least 2 weeks to see the effect of any dose adjustment on the patient’s 
platelet response prior to considering another dose adjustment. 
The standard eltrombopag dose adjustment, either decrease or increase, would be 25 mg once daily. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation 
Treatment with eltrombopag should be discontinued if the platelet count does not increase to a level 
sufficient to avoid clinically important bleeding after 4 weeks of eltrombopag therapy at 75 mg once 
daily. 
Patients should be clinically evaluated periodically and continuation of treatment should be decided on 
an individual basis by the treating physician. In non-splenectomised patients this should include 
evaluation relative to splenectomy. The reoccurrence of thrombocytopenia is possible upon 
discontinuation of treatment (see section 4.4). 
Chronic hepatitis C (HCV) associated thrombocytopenia 
When eltrombopag is given in combination with antivirals reference should be made to the full 
summary of product characteristics of the respective coadministered medicinal products for 
comprehensive details of relevant safety information or contraindications. 
In clinical studies, platelet counts generally began to increase within 1 week of starting eltrombopag. 
The aim of treatment with eltrombopag should be to achieve the minimum level of platelet counts 
needed to initiate antiviral therapy, in adherence to clinical practice recommendations. During antiviral 
therapy, the aim of treatment should be to keep platelet counts at a level that prevents the risk of 
bleeding complications, normally around 50 000-75 000/µl. Platelet counts >75 000/µl should be 
avoided. The lowest dose of eltrombopag needed to achieve the targets should be used. Dose 
adjustments are based upon the platelet count response. 
Initial dose regimen 
Eltrombopag should be initiated at a dose of 25 mg once daily. No dosage adjustment is necessary for 
HCV patients of East-/Southeast-Asian ancestry or patients with mild hepatic impairment (see 
section 5.2). 
Monitoring and dose adjustment 
The dose of eltrombopag should be adjusted in 25 mg increments every 2 weeks as necessary to 
achieve the target platelet count required to initiate antiviral therapy. Platelet counts should be 
monitored every week prior to starting antiviral therapy. On initiation of antiviral therapy the platelet 
count may fall, so immediate eltrombopag dose adjustments should be avoided (see Table 2). 
During antiviral therapy, the dose of eltrombopag should be adjusted as necessary to avoid dose 
reductions of peginterferon due to decreasing platelet counts that may put patients at risk of bleeding 
(see Table 2). Platelet counts should be monitored weekly during antiviral therapy until a stable 
platelet count is achieved, normally around 50 000-75 000/µl. FBCs including platelet counts and 
peripheral blood smears should be obtained monthly thereafter. Dose reductions on the daily dose by 
25 mg should be considered if platelet counts exceed the required target. It is recommended to wait for 
2 weeks to assess the effects of this and any subsequent dose adjustments. 
A dose of 100 mg eltrombopag once daily must not be exceeded. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Dose adjustments of eltrombopag in HCV patients during antiviral therapy 
Platelet count 
<50 000/µl following at least 
2 weeks of therapy 
≥50 000/µl to ≤100 000/µl 
>100 000/µl to ≤150 000/µl 
>150 000/µl 
Dose adjustment or response 
Increase daily dose by 25 mg to a maximum of 100 mg/day. 
Use lowest dose of eltrombopag as necessary to avoid dose 
reductions of peginterferon. 
Decrease the daily dose by 25 mg. Wait 2 weeks to assess the 
effects of this and any subsequent dose adjustments♦. 
Stop eltrombopag; increase the frequency of platelet monitoring to 
twice weekly. 
Once the platelet count is ≤100 000/µl, reinitiate therapy at a daily 
dose reduced by 25 mg*. 
* 
♦ 
For patients taking 25 mg eltrombopag once daily, consideration should be given to reinitiating 
dosing at 25 mg every other day. 
On initiation of antiviral therapy the platelet count may fall, so immediate eltrombopag dose 
reductions should be avoided. 
Discontinuation 
If after 2 weeks of eltrombopag therapy at 100 mg the required platelet level to initiate antiviral 
therapy is not achieved, eltrombopag should be discontinued. 
Eltrombopag treatment should be terminated when antiviral therapy is discontinued unless otherwise 
justified. Excessive platelet count responses or important liver test abnormalities also necessitate 
discontinuation. 
Severe aplastic anaemia 
Initial dose regimen 
Eltrombopag should be initiated at a dose of 50 mg once daily. For patients of East-/Southeast-Asian 
ancestry, eltrombopag should be initiated at a reduced dose of 25 mg once daily (see section 5.2). The 
treatment should not be initiated when the patient has existing cytogenetic abnormalities of 
chromosome 7. 
Monitoring and dose adjustment 
Haematological response requires dose titration, generally up to 150 mg, and may take up to 16 weeks 
after starting eltrombopag (see section 5.1). The dose of eltrombopag should be adjusted in 50 mg 
increments every 2 weeks as necessary to achieve the target platelet count ≥50 000/µl. For patients 
taking 25 mg once daily, the dose should be increased to 50 mg daily before increasing the dose 
amount by 50 mg. A dose of 150 mg daily must not be exceeded. Clinical haematology and liver tests 
should be monitored regularly throughout therapy with eltrombopag and the dosage regimen of 
eltrombopag modified based on platelet counts as outlined in Table 3. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Dose adjustments of eltrombopag in patients with severe aplastic anaemia 
Platelet count 
<50 000/µl following at least 
2 weeks of therapy 
50 000/µl to 150 000/µl 
>150 000/µl to 250 000/µl 
>250 000/µl 
Dose adjustment or response 
Increase daily dose by 50 mg to a maximum of 150 mg/day. 
For patients taking 25 mg once daily, increase the dose to 
50 mg daily before increasing the dose amount by 50 mg. 
Use lowest dose of eltrombopag to maintain platelet counts. 
Decrease the daily dose by 50 mg. Wait 2 weeks to assess the 
effects of this and any subsequent dose adjustments. 
Stop eltrombopag; for at least one week. 
Once the platelet count is ≤100 000/µl, reinitiate therapy at a 
daily dose reduced by 50 mg. 
Tapering for tri-lineage (white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets) responders 
For patients who achieve tri-lineage response, including transfusion independence, lasting at least 
8 weeks: the dose of eltrombopag may be reduced by 50%. 
If counts remain stable after 8 weeks at the reduced dose, then eltrombopag must be discontinued and 
blood counts monitored. If platelet counts drop to <30 000/µl, haemoglobin drops to <9 g/dl or 
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) to <0.5 x 109/l, eltrombopag may be reinitiated at the previous 
effective dose. 
Discontinuation 
If no haematological response has occurred after 16 weeks of therapy with eltrombopag, therapy 
should be discontinued. If new cytogenetic abnormalities are detected, it must be evaluated whether 
continuation of eltrombopag is appropriate (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Excessive platelet count 
responses (as outlined in Table 3) or important liver test abnormalities also necessitate discontinuation 
of eltrombopag (see section 4.8). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with renal impairment. Patients with impaired renal 
function should use eltrombopag with caution and close monitoring, for example by testing serum 
creatinine and/or performing urine analysis (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Eltrombopag should not be used in ITP patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score ≥5) unless 
the expected benefit outweighs the identified risk of portal venous thrombosis (see section 4.4). 
If the use of eltrombopag is deemed necessary for ITP patients with hepatic impairment the starting 
dose must be 25 mg once daily. After initiating the dose of eltrombopag in patients with hepatic 
impairment an interval of 3 weeks should be observed before increasing the dose. 
No dose adjustment is required for thrombocytopenic patients with chronic HCV and mild hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh score ≤6). Chronic HCV patients and severe aplastic anaemia patients with 
hepatic impairment should initiate eltrombopag at a dose of 25 mg once daily (see section 5.2). After 
initiating the dose of eltrombopag in patients with hepatic impairment an interval of 2 weeks should be 
observed before increasing the dose. 
There is an increased risk for adverse events, including hepatic decompensation and thromboembolic 
events (TEEs), in thrombocytopenic patients with advanced chronic liver disease treated with 
eltrombopag, either in preparation for invasive procedure or in HCV patients undergoing antiviral 
therapy (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
There are limited data on the use of eltrombopag in ITP patients aged 65 years and older and no 
clinical experience in ITP patients aged over 85 years. In the clinical studies of eltrombopag, overall 
no clinically significant differences in safety of eltrombopag were observed between patients aged at 
least 65 years and younger patients. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in 
responses between the elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals 
cannot be ruled out (see section 5.2). 
There are limited data on the use of eltrombopag in HCV and SAA patients aged over 75 years. 
Caution should be exercised in these patients (see section 4.4). 
East-/Southeast-Asian patients 
For adult and paediatric patients of East-/Southeast-Asian ancestry, including those with hepatic 
impairment, eltrombopag should be initiated at a dose of 25 mg once daily (see section 5.2). 
Patient platelet count should continue to be monitored and the standard criteria for further dose 
modification followed. 
Paediatric population 
Revolade is not recommended for use in children under the age of one year with ITP due to 
insufficient data on safety and efficacy. The safety and efficacy of eltrombopag has not been 
established in children and adolescents (<18 years) with chronic HCV related thrombocytopenia or 
SAA. No data are available. 
Method of administration (see section 6.6) 
Oral use. 
The suspension should be taken at least two hours before or four hours after any products such as 
antacids, dairy products (or other calcium containing food products), or mineral supplements 
containing polyvalent cations (e.g. iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, selenium and zinc) (see 
sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to eltrombopag or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
There is an increased risk for adverse reactions, including potentially fatal hepatic decompensation and 
thromboembolic events, in thrombocytopenic HCV patients with advanced chronic liver disease, as 
defined by low albumin levels ≤35 g/l or model for end stage liver disease (MELD) score ≥10, when 
treated with eltrombopag in combination with interferon-based therapy. In addition, the benefits of 
treatment in terms of the proportion achieving sustained virological response (SVR) compared with 
placebo were modest in these patients (especially for those with baseline albumin ≤35 g/l) compared 
with the group overall. Treatment with eltrombopag in these patients should be initiated only by 
physicians experienced in the management of advanced HCV, and only when the risks of 
thrombocytopenia or withholding antiviral therapy necessitate intervention. If treatment is considered 
clinically indicated, close monitoring of these patients is required. 
Combination with direct-acting antiviral agents 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in combination with direct-acting antiviral agents 
approved for treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk of hepatotoxicity 
Eltrombopag administration can cause abnormal liver function and severe hepatotoxicity, which might 
be life-threatening (see section 4.8). 
Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotrasferase (AST) and bilirubin should be 
measured prior to initiation of eltrombopag, every 2 weeks during the dose adjustment phase and 
monthly following establishment of a stable dose. Eltrombopag inhibits UGT1A1 and OATP1B1, 
which may lead to indirect hyperbilirubinaemia. If bilirubin is elevated fractionation should be 
performed. Abnormal serum liver tests should be evaluated with repeat testing within 3 to 5 days. If 
the abnormalities are confirmed, serum liver tests should be monitored until the abnormalities resolve, 
stabilise, or return to baseline levels. Eltrombopag should be discontinued if ALT levels increase 
(3 times the upper limit of normal [x ULN] in patients with normal liver function, or ≥3 x baseline or 
>5 x ULN, whichever is the lower, in patients with pre-treatment elevations in transaminases) and are: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
progressive, or 
persistent for ≥4 weeks, or 
accompanied by increased direct bilirubin, or 
accompanied by clinical symptoms of liver injury or evidence for hepatic decompensation. 
Caution is required when administering eltrombopag to patients with hepatic disease. In ITP and SAA 
patients a lower starting dose of eltrombopag should be used. Close monitoring is required when 
administering to patients with hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic decompensation (use with interferon) 
Hepatic decompensation in patients with chronic hepatitis C: Monitoring is required in patients with 
low albumin levels (≤35 g/l) or with MELD score ≥10 at baseline. 
Chronic HCV patients with liver cirrhosis may be at risk of hepatic decompensation when receiving 
alfa interferon therapy. In two controlled clinical studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV, 
hepatic decompensation (ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal haemorrhage, spontaneous bacterial 
peritonitis) occurred more frequently in the eltrombopag arm (11%) than in the placebo arm (6%). In 
patients with low albumin levels (≤35 g/l) or with a MELD score ≥10 at baseline, there was a 3-fold 
greater risk of hepatic decompensation and an increase in the risk of a fatal adverse event compared to 
those with less advanced liver disease. In addition, the benefits of treatment in terms of the proportion 
achieving SVR compared with placebo were modest in these patients (especially for those with 
baseline albumin ≤35 g/l) compared with the group overall. Eltrombopag should only be administered 
to such patients after careful consideration of the expected benefits in comparison with the risks. 
Patients with these characteristics should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatic 
decompensation. The respective interferon summary of product characteristics should be referenced 
for discontinuation criteria. Eltrombopag should be terminated if antiviral therapy is discontinued for 
hepatic decompensation. 
Thrombotic/thromboembolic complications 
In controlled studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV receiving interferon-based therapy 
(n=1 439), 38 out of 955 patients (4%) treated with eltrombopag and 6 out of 484 patients (1%) in the 
placebo group experienced TEEs. Reported thrombotic/thromboembolic complications included both 
venous and arterial events. The majority of TEEs were non-serious and resolved by the end of the 
study. Portal vein thrombosis was the most common TEE in both treatment groups (2% in patients 
treated with eltrombopag versus <1% for placebo). No specific temporal relationship between start of 
treatment and event of TEE were observed. Patients with low albumin levels (≤35 g/l) or MELD ≥10 
had a 2-fold greater risk of TEEs than those with higher albumin levels; those aged ≥60 years had a 
2-fold greater risk of TEEs compared to younger patients. Eltrombopag should only be administered to 
such patients after careful consideration of the expected benefits in comparison with the risks. Patients 
should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of TEE. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risk of TEEs has been found to be increased in patients with chronic liver disease (CLD) treated 
with 75 mg eltrombopag once daily for 2 weeks in preparation for invasive procedures. Six of 143 
(4%) adult patients with CLD receiving eltrombopag experienced TEEs (all of the portal venous 
system) and two of 145 (1%) patients in the placebo group experienced TEEs (one in the portal venous 
system and one myocardial infarction). Five of the 6 patients treated with eltrombopag experienced the 
thrombotic complication at a platelet count >200 000/µl and within 30 days of the last dose of 
eltrombopag. Eltrombopag is not indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with 
chronic liver disease in preparation for invasive procedures. 
In eltrombopag clinical studies in ITP thromboembolic events were observed at low and normal 
platelet counts. Caution should be used when administering eltrombopag to patients with known risk 
factors for thromboembolism including but not limited to inherited (e.g. Factor V Leiden) or acquired 
risk factors (e.g. ATIII deficiency, antiphospholipid syndrome), advanced age, patients with prolonged 
periods of immobilisation, malignancies, contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy, 
surgery/trauma, obesity and smoking. Platelet counts should be closely monitored and consideration 
given to reducing the dose or discontinuing eltrombopag treatment if the platelet count exceeds the 
target levels (see section 4.2). The risk-benefit balance should be considered in patients at risk of TEEs 
of any aetiology. 
No case of TEE was identified from a clinical study in refractory SAA, however the risk of these 
events cannot be excluded in this patient population due to the limited number of exposed patients. As 
the highest authorised dose is indicated for patients with SAA (150 mg/day) and due to the nature of 
the reaction, TEEs might be expected in this patient population. 
Eltrombopag should not be used in ITP patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score ≥5) unless 
the expected benefit outweighs the identified risk of portal venous thrombosis. When treatment is 
considered appropriate, caution is required when administering eltrombopag to patients with hepatic 
impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Bleeding following discontinuation of eltrombopag 
Thrombocytopenia is likely to reoccur in ITP patients upon discontinuation of treatment with 
eltrombopag. Following discontinuation of eltrombopag, platelet counts return to baseline levels 
within 2 weeks in the majority of patients, which increases the bleeding risk and in some cases may 
lead to bleeding. This risk is increased if eltrombopag treatment is discontinued in the presence of 
anticoagulants or anti-platelet agents. It is recommended that, if treatment with eltrombopag is 
discontinued, ITP treatment be restarted according to current treatment guidelines. Additional medical 
management may include cessation of anticoagulant and/or anti-platelet therapy, reversal of 
anticoagulation, or platelet support. Platelet counts must be monitored weekly for 4 weeks following 
discontinuation of eltrombopag. 
In HCV clinical studies, a higher incidence of gastrointestinal bleeding, including serious and fatal 
cases, was reported following discontinuation of peginterferon, ribavirin, and eltrombopag. Following 
discontinuation of therapy, patients should be monitored for any signs or symptoms of gastrointestinal 
bleeding. 
Bone marrow reticulin formation and risk of bone marrow fibrosis 
Eltrombopag may increase the risk for development or progression of reticulin fibres within the bone 
marrow. The relevance of this finding, as with other thrombopoietin-receptor (TPO-R) agonists, has 
not been established yet. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to initiation of eltrombopag, the peripheral blood smear should be examined closely to establish 
a baseline level of cellular morphologic abnormalities. Following identification of a stable dose of 
eltrombopag, full blood count (FBC) with white blood cell count (WBC) differential should be 
performed monthly. If immature or dysplastic cells are observed, peripheral blood smears should be 
examined for new or worsening morphological abnormalities (e.g. teardrop and nucleated red blood 
cells, immature white blood cells) or cytopenia(s). If the patient develops new or worsening 
morphological abnormalities or cytopenia(s), treatment with eltrombopag should be discontinued and 
a bone marrow biopsy considered, including staining for fibrosis. 
Progression of existing myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) 
There is a theoretical concern that TPO-R agonists may stimulate the progression of existing 
haematological malignancies such as MDS. TPO-R agonists are growth factors that lead to 
thrombopoietic progenitor cell expansion, differentiation and platelet production. The TPO-R is 
predominantly expressed on the surface of cells of the myeloid lineage. 
In clinical studies with a TPO-R agonist in patients with MDS, cases of transient increases in blast cell 
counts were observed and cases of MDS disease progression to acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) were 
reported. 
The diagnosis of ITP or SAA in adults and elderly patients should be confirmed by the exclusion of 
other clinical entities presenting with thrombocytopenia, in particular the diagnosis of MDS must be 
excluded. Consideration should be given to performing a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy over the 
course of the disease and treatment, particularly in patients over 60 years of age, those with systemic 
symptoms, or abnormal signs such as increased peripheral blast cells. 
The effectiveness and safety of Revolade have not been established for the treatment of 
thrombocytopenia due to MDS. Revolade should not be used outside of clinical studies for the 
treatment of thrombocytopenia due to MDS. 
Cytogenetic abnormalities and progression to MDS/AML in patients with SAA 
Cytogenetic abnormalities are known to occur in SAA patients. It is not known whether eltrombopag 
increases the risk of cytogenetic abnormalities in patients with SAA. In the phase II refractory SAA 
clinical study with eltrombopag with a starting dose of 50 mg/day (escalated every 2 weeks to a 
maximum of 150 mg/day) (ELT112523), the incidence of new cytogenetic abnormalities was 
observed in 17.1% of patients [7/41 (where 4 of them had changes in chromosome 7)]. The median 
time on study to a cytogenetic abnormality was 2.9 months. 
In the phase II refractory SAA clinical study with eltrombopag at a dose of 150 mg/day (with ethnic or 
age related modifications as indicated) (ELT116826), the incidence of new cytogenetic abnormalities 
was observed in 22.6% of adult patients [7/31 (where 3 of them had changes in chromosome 7)]. All 
7 patients had normal cytogenetics at baseline. Six patients had cytogenetic abnormality at Month 3 of 
eltrombopag therapy and one patient had cytogenetic abnormality at Month 6. 
In clinical studies with eltrombopag in SAA, 4% of patients (5/133) were diagnosed with MDS. The 
median time to diagnosis was 3 months from the start of eltrombopag treatment. 
For SAA patients refractory to or heavily pretreated with prior immunosuppressive therapy, bone 
marrow examination with aspirations for cytogenetics is recommended prior to initiation of 
eltrombopag, at 3 months of treatment and 6 months thereafter. If new cytogenetic abnormalities are 
detected, it must be evaluated whether continuation of eltrombopag is appropriate. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ocular changes 
Cataracts were observed in toxicology studies of eltrombopag in rodents (see section 5.3). In 
controlled studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV receiving interferon therapy (n=1 439), 
progression of pre-existing baseline cataract(s) or incident cataracts was reported in 8% of the 
eltrombopag group and 5% of the placebo group. Retinal haemorrhages, mostly Grade 1 or 2, have 
been reported in HCV patients receiving interferon, ribavirin and eltrombopag (2% of the eltrombopag 
group and 2% of the placebo group. Haemorrhages occurred on the surface of the retina (preretinal), 
under the retina (subretinal), or within the retinal tissue. Routine ophthalmologic monitoring of 
patients is recommended. 
QT/QTc prolongation 
A QTc study in healthy volunteers dosed 150 mg eltrombopag per day did not show a clinically 
significant effect on cardiac repolarisation. QTc interval prolongation has been reported in clinical 
studies of patients with ITP and thrombocytopenic patients with HCV. The clinical significance of 
these QTc prolongation events is unknown. 
Loss of response to eltrombopag 
A loss of response or failure to maintain a platelet response with eltrombopag treatment within the 
recommended dosing range should prompt a search for causative factors, including an increased bone 
marrow reticulin. 
Paediatric population 
The above warnings and precautions for ITP also apply to the paediatric population. 
Interference with laboratory tests 
Eltrombopag is highly coloured and so has the potential to interfere with some laboratory tests. Serum 
discolouration and interference with total bilirubin and creatinine testing have been reported in 
patients taking Revolade. If the laboratory results and clinical observations are inconsistent, re-testing 
using another method may help in determining the validity of the result. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of eltrombopag on other medicinal products 
HMG CoA reductase inhibitors 
Administration of eltrombopag 75 mg once daily for 5 days with a single 10 mg dose of the OATP1B1 
and BCRP substrate rosuvastatin to 39 healthy adult subjects increased plasma rosuvastatin Cmax 103% 
(90% confidence interval [CI]: 82%, 126%) and AUC0- 55% (90% CI: 42%, 69%). Interactions are 
also expected with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, 
pravastatin and simvastatin. When co-administered with eltrombopag, a reduced dose of statins should 
be considered and careful monitoring for statin adverse reactions should be undertaken (see 
section 5.2). 
OATP1B1 and BCRP substrates 
Concomitant administration of eltrombopag and OATP1B1 (e.g. methotrexate) and BCRP (e.g. 
topotecan and methotrexate) substrates should be undertaken with caution (see section 5.2). 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytochrome P450 substrates 
In studies utilising human liver microsomes, eltrombopag (up to 100 M) showed no in vitro 
inhibition of the CYP450 enzymes 1A2, 2A6, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4/5, and 4A9/11 and was an 
inhibitor of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 as measured using paclitaxel and diclofenac as the probe 
substrates. Administration of eltrombopag 75 mg once daily for 7 days to 24 healthy male subjects did 
not inhibit or induce the metabolism of probe substrates for 1A2 (caffeine), 2C19 (omeprazole), 2C9 
(flurbiprofen), or 3A4 (midazolam) in humans. No clinically significant interactions are expected 
when eltrombopag and CYP450 substrates are co-administered (see section 5.2). 
HCV protease inhibitors 
Dose adjustment is not required when eltrombopag is co-administered with either telaprevir or 
boceprevir. Co-administration of a single dose of eltrombopag 200 mg with telaprevir 750 mg every 
8 hours did not alter plasma telaprevir exposure. 
Co-administration of a single dose of eltrombopag 200 mg with boceprevir 800 mg every 8 hours did 
not alter plasma boceprevir AUC(0-), but increased Cmax by 20%, and decreased Cmin by 32%. The 
clinical relevance of the decrease in Cmin has not been established, increased clinical and laboratory 
monitoring for HCV suppression is recommended. 
Effects of other medicinal products on eltrombopag 
Ciclosporin 
A decrease in eltrombopag exposure was observed with co-administration of 200 mg and 600 mg 
ciclosporin (a BCRP inhibitor). The co-administration of 200 mg ciclosporin decreased the Cmax and 
the AUC0- of eltrombopag by 25% and 18%, respectively. The co-administration of 600 mg 
ciclosporin decreased the Cmax and the AUC0- of eltrombopag by 39% and 24%, respectively. 
Eltrombopag dose adjustment is permitted during the course of the treatment based on the patient’s 
platelet count (see section 4.2). Platelet count should be monitored at least weekly for 2 to 3 weeks 
when eltrombopag is co-administered with ciclosporin. Eltrombopag dose may need to be increased 
based on these platelet counts. 
Polyvalent cations (chelation) 
Eltrombopag chelates with polyvalent cations such as iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, selenium 
and zinc. Administration of a single dose of eltrombopag 75 mg with a polyvalent cation-containing 
antacid (1 524 mg aluminium hydroxide and 1 425 mg magnesium carbonate) decreased plasma 
eltrombopag AUC0- by 70% (90% CI: 64%, 76%) and Cmax by 70% (90% CI: 62%, 76%). 
Eltrombopag should be taken at least two hours before or four hours after any products such as 
antacids, dairy products or mineral supplements containing polyvalent cations to avoid significant 
reduction in eltrombopag absorption due to chelation (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Lopinavir/ritonavir 
Co-administration of eltrombopag with lopinavir/ritonavir may cause a decrease in the concentration 
of eltrombopag. A study in 40 healthy volunteers showed that the co-administration of a single 100 mg 
dose of eltrombopag with repeat dose lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily resulted in a 
reduction in eltrombopag plasma AUC0- by 17% (90% CI: 6.6%, 26.6%). Therefore, caution should 
be used when co-administration of eltrombopag with lopinavir/ritonavir takes place. Platelet count 
should be closely monitored in order to ensure appropriate medical management of the dose of 
eltrombopag when lopinavir/ritonavir therapy is initiated or discontinued. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 inhibitors and inducers 
Eltrombopag is metabolised through multiple pathways including CYP1A2, CYP2C8, UGT1A1, and 
UGT1A3 (see section 5.2). Medicinal products that inhibit or induce a single enzyme are unlikely to 
significantly affect plasma eltrombopag concentrations, whereas medicinal products that inhibit or 
induce multiple enzymes have the potential to increase (e.g. fluvoxamine) or decrease (e.g. rifampicin) 
eltrombopag concentrations. 
HCV protease inhibitors 
Results of a drug-drug pharmacokinetic (PK) interaction study show that co-administration of repeat 
doses of boceprevir 800 mg every 8 hours or telaprevir 750 mg every 8 hours with a single dose of 
eltrombopag 200 mg did not alter plasma eltrombopag exposure to a clinically significant extent. 
Medicinal products for treatment of ITP 
Medicinal products used in the treatment of ITP in combination with eltrombopag in clinical studies 
included corticosteroids, danazol, and/or azathioprine, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), and 
anti-D immunoglobulin. Platelet counts should be monitored when combining eltrombopag with other 
medicinal products for the treatment of ITP in order to avoid platelet counts outside of the 
recommended range (see section 4.2). 
Food interaction 
The administration of eltrombopag tablet or powder for oral suspension formulations with a high-
calcium meal (e.g. a meal that included dairy products) significantly reduced plasma eltrombopag 
AUC0-∞ and Cmax. In contrast, the administration of eltrombopag 2 hours before or 4 hours after a high-
calcium meal or with low-calcium food [<50 mg calcium] did not alter plasma eltrombopag exposure 
to a clinically significant extent (see section 4.2). 
Administration of a single 50 mg dose of eltrombopag in tablet form with a standard high-calorie, 
high-fat breakfast that included dairy products reduced plasma eltrombopag mean AUC0-∞ by 59% and 
mean Cmax by 65%. 
Administration of a single 25 mg dose of eltrombopag as powder for oral suspension with a high-
calcium, moderate-fat and moderate-calorie meal reduced plasma eltrombopag mean AUC0-∞ by 75% 
and mean Cmax by 79%. This decrease of exposure was attenuated when a single 25 mg dose of 
eltrombopag powder for oral suspension was administered 2 hours before a high-calcium meal (mean 
AUC0-∞ was decreased by 20% and mean Cmax by 14%). 
Food low in calcium (<50 mg calcium), including fruit, lean ham, beef and unfortified (no added 
calcium, magnesium or iron) fruit juice, unfortified soya milk and unfortified grain, did not 
significantly impact plasma eltrombopag exposure, regardless of calorie and fat content (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of eltrombopag in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Revolade is not recommended during pregnancy. 
Women of childbearing potential / Contraception in males and females 
Revolade is not recommended in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether eltrombopag/metabolites are excreted in human milk. Studies in animals have 
shown that eltrombopag is likely secreted into milk (see section 5.3); therefore a risk to the suckling 
child cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
continue/abstain from Revolade therapy, taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child 
and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Fertility was not affected in male or female rats at exposures that were comparable to those in humans. 
However a risk for humans cannot be ruled out (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Eltrombopag has negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. The clinical status of 
the patient and the adverse reaction profile of eltrombopag, including dizziness and lack of alertness, 
should be borne in mind when considering the patient’s ability to perform tasks that require 
judgement, motor and cognitive skills. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Immune thrombocytopenia in adult and paediatric patients 
The safety of Revolade was assessed in adult patients (N=763) using the pooled double-blind, 
placebo-controlled studies TRA100773A and B, TRA102537 (RAISE) and TRA113765, in which 
403 patients were exposed to Revolade and 179 to placebo, in addition to data from the completed 
open-label studies (N=360) TRA108057 (REPEAT), TRA105325 (EXTEND) and TRA112940 (see 
section 5.1). Patients received study medication for up to 8 years (in EXTEND). The most important 
serious adverse reactions were hepatotoxicity and thrombotic/thromboembolic events. The most 
common adverse reactions occurring in at least 10% of patients included nausea, diarrhoea, increased 
alanine aminotransferase and back pain. 
The safety of Revolade in paediatric patients (aged 1 to 17 years) with previously treated ITP has been 
demonstrated in two studies (N=171) (see section 5.1). PETIT2 (TRA115450) was a two-part, double-
blind and open-label, randomised, placebo-controlled study. Patients were randomised 2:1 and 
received Revolade (n=63) or placebo (n=29) for up to 13 weeks in the randomised period of the study. 
PETIT (TRA108062) was a three-part, staggered-cohort, open-label and double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled study. Patients were randomised 2:1 and received Revolade (n=44) or placebo 
(n=21), for up to 7 weeks. The profile of adverse reactions was comparable to that seen in adults with 
some additional adverse reactions, marked ♦ in the table below. The most common adverse reactions 
in paediatric ITP patients 1 year and older (≥3% and greater than placebo) were upper respiratory tract 
infection, nasopharyngitis, cough, pyrexia, abdominal pain, oropharyngeal pain, toothache and 
rhinorrhoea. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopenia with HCV infection in adult patients 
ENABLE 1 (TPL103922 n=716, 715 treated with eltrombopag) and ENABLE 2 (TPL108390 n=805) 
were randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre studies to assess the efficacy and 
safety of Revolade in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV infection who were otherwise eligible to 
initiate antiviral therapy. In the HCV studies the safety population consisted of all randomised patients 
who received double-blind study medicinal product during Part 2 of ENABLE 1 (Revolade treatment 
n=450, placebo treatment n=232) and ENABLE 2 (Revolade treatment n=506, placebo treatment 
n=252). Patients are analysed according to the treatment received (total safety double-blind 
population, Revolade n=955 and placebo n=484). The most important serious adverse reactions 
identified were hepatotoxicity and thrombotic/thromboembolic events. The most common adverse 
reactions occurring in at least 10% of patients included headache, anaemia, decreased appetite, cough, 
nausea, diarrhoea, hyperbilirubinaemia, alopecia, pruritus, myalgia, pyrexia, fatigue, influenza-like 
illness, asthenia, chills and oedema. 
Severe aplastic anaemia in adult patients 
The safety of Revolade in severe aplastic anaemia was assessed in a single-arm, open-label study 
(N=43) in which 11 patients (26%) were treated for >6 months and 7 patients (16%) were treated for 
>1 year (see section 5.1). The most common adverse reactions occurring in at least 10% of patients 
included headache, dizziness, cough, oropharyngeal pain, rhinorrhoea, nausea, diarrhoea, abdominal 
pain, transaminases increased, arthralgia, pain in extremity, muscle spasms, fatigue and pyrexia. 
List of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions in the adult ITP studies (N=763), paediatric ITP studies (N=171), the HCV 
studies (N=1,520), the SAA studies (N=43) and post-marketing reports are listed below by MedDRA 
system organ class and by frequency. Within each system organ class, the adverse drug reactions are 
ranked by frequency, with the most frequent reactions first. The corresponding frequency category for 
each adverse drug reaction is based on the following convention (CIOMS III): very common (≥1/10); 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000); not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). 
ITP study population 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts 
and polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Nasopharyngitis♦, upper respiratory tract infection♦ 
Frequency  Adverse reaction 
Very 
common 
Common 
Pharyngitis, influenza, oral herpes, pneumonia, 
sinusitis, tonsillitis, respiratory tract infection, 
gingivitis 
Uncommon  Skin infection 
Uncommon  Rectosigmoid cancer 
Common 
Anaemia, eosinophilia, leukocytosis, 
thrombocytopenia, haemoglobin decreased, white 
blood cell count decreased 
Uncommon  Anisocytosis, haemolytic anaemia, myelocytosis, 
band neutrophil count increased, myelocyte present, 
platelet count increased, haemoglobin increased 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Uncommon  Hypersensitivity 
Common 
Hypokalaemia, decreased appetite, blood uric acid 
increased 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon  Anorexia, gout, hypocalcaemia 
Common 
Uncommon  Apathy, mood altered, tearfulness 
Sleep disorder, depression 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, somnolence, migraine 
Common 
Uncommon  Tremor, balance disorder, dysaesthesia, hemiparesis, 
migraine with aura, neuropathy peripheral, peripheral 
sensory neuropathy, speech disorder, toxic 
neuropathy, vascular headache 
Dry eye, vision blurred, eye pain, visual acuity 
reduced 
Common 
Uncommon  Lenticular opacities, astigmatism, cataract cortical, 
lacrimation increased, retinal haemorrhage, retinal 
pigment epitheliopathy, visual impairment, visual 
acuity tests abnormal, blepharitis, keratoconjunctivitis 
sicca 
Ear pain, vertigo 
Common 
Uncommon  Tachycardia, acute myocardial infarction, 
cardiovascular disorder, cyanosis, sinus tachycardia, 
electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
Deep vein thrombosis, haematoma, hot flush 
Common 
Uncommon  Embolism, thrombophlebitis superficial, flushing 
Very 
common 
Oropharyngeal pain♦, rhinorrhoea♦ 
Common 
Uncommon  Pulmonary embolism, pulmonary infarction, nasal 
Cough♦ 
discomfort, oropharyngeal blistering, sinus disorder, 
sleep apnoea syndrome 
Nausea, diarrhoea 
Very 
common 
Common  Mouth ulceration, toothache♦, vomiting, abdominal 
pain*, mouth haemorrhage, flatulence 
* Very common in paediatric ITP 
Uncommon  Dry mouth, glossodynia, abdominal tenderness, faeces 
Very 
common 
Common 
discoloured, food poisoning, frequent bowel 
movements, haematemesis, oral discomfort 
Alanine aminotransferase increased† 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased†, 
hyperbilirubinaemia, hepatic function abnormal 
Uncommon  Cholestasis, hepatic lesion, hepatitis, drug-induced 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
liver injury 
Rash, alopecia, hyperhidrosis, pruritus generalised, 
petechiae 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon  Urticaria, dermatosis, cold sweat, erythema, 
melanosis, pigmentation disorder, skin discolouration, 
skin exfoliation 
Back pain 
Very 
common 
Common  Myalgia, muscle spasm, musculoskeletal pain, bone 
pain 
Uncommon  Muscular weakness 
Common 
Proteinuria, blood creatinine increased, thrombotic 
microangiopathy with renal failure‡ 
Uncommon  Renal failure, leukocyturia, lupus nephritis, nocturia, 
blood urea increased, urine protein/creatinine ratio 
increased 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
Common  Menorrhagia 
55 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Common 
Pyrexia*, chest pain, asthenia 
*Very common in paediatric ITP 
Investigations 
Uncommon  Feeling hot, vessel puncture site haemorrhage, feeling 
jittery, inflammation of wound, malaise, sensation of 
foreign body 
Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 
Common 
Uncommon  Blood albumin increased, protein total increased, 
blood albumin decreased, pH urine increased 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Uncommon  Sunburn 
♦ 
† 
‡ 
Additional adverse reactions observed in paediatric studies (aged 1to 17 years). 
Increase of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase may occur simultaneously, 
although at a lower frequency. 
Grouped term with preferred terms acute kidney injury and renal failure 
HCV study population (in combination with anti-viral interferon and ribavirin therapy) 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Frequency  Adverse reaction 
Common 
Urinary tract infection, upper respiratory tract 
infection, bronchitis, nasopharyngitis, influenza, oral 
herpes 
Uncommon  Gastroenteritis, pharyngitis 
Common 
Hepatic neoplasm malignant 
Anaemia 
Lymphopenia 
Decreased appetite 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon  Haemolytic anaemia 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon  Confusional state, agitation 
Very 
common 
Common 
Headache 
Hyperglycaemia, abnormal loss of weight 
Depression, anxiety, sleep disorder 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Dizziness, disturbance in attention, dysgeusia, hepatic 
encephalopathy, lethargy, memory impairment, 
paraesthesia 
Cataract, retinal exudates, dry eye, ocular icterus, 
retinal haemorrhage 
Vertigo 
Palpitations 
Cough 
Dyspnoea, oropharyngeal pain, dyspnoea exertional, 
productive cough 
56 
 
 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncomon 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Nausea, diarrhoea 
Vomiting, ascites, abdominal pain, abdominal pain 
upper, dyspepsia, dry mouth, constipation, abdominal 
distension, toothache, stomatitis, gastrooesophagal 
reflux disease, haemorrhoids, abdominal discomfort, 
varices oesophageal 
Oesophageal varices haemorrhage, gastritis, aphthous 
stomatitis 
Hyperbilirubinaemia, jaundice, drug-induced liver 
injury 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Uncommon  Portal vein thrombosis, hepatic failure 
Very 
common 
Common 
Pruritus 
Rash, dry skin, eczema, rash pruritic, erythema, 
hyperhidrosis, pruritus generalised, alopecia 
Uncommon  Skin lesion, skin discolouration, skin 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorder 
Very 
common 
Common 
hyperpigmentation, night sweats 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia, muscle spasms, back pain, pain in 
extremity, musculoskeletal pain, bone pain 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon  Thrombotic microangiopathy with acute renal 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Common 
failure†, dysuria 
Pyrexia, fatigue, influenza-like illness, asthenia, chills 
Irritability, pain, malaise, injection site reaction, non-
cardiac chest pain, oedema, oedema peripheral 
Injection site pruritus, injection site rash, chest 
discomfort 
Blood bilirubin increased, weight decreased, white 
blood cell count decreased, haemoglobin decreased, 
neutrophil count decreased, international normalised 
ratio increased, activated partial thromboplastin time 
prolonged, blood glucose increased, blood albumin 
decreased 
† 
Grouped term with preferred terms oliguria, renal failure and renal impairment 
Uncommon  Electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
57 
 
 
 
SAA study population 
System organ class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Frequency  Adverse reaction 
Common 
Neutropenia, splenic infarction 
Common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Iron overload, decreased appetite, hypoglycaemia, 
increased appetite 
Anxiety, depression 
Headache, dizziness 
Syncope 
Dry eye, cataract, ocular icterus, vision blurred, 
visual impairment, vitreous floaters 
Cough, oropharyngeal pain, rhinorrhoea 
Epistaxis 
Diarrhoea, nausea, gingival bleeding, abdominal pain 
Oral mucosal blistering, oral pain, vomiting, 
abdominal discomfort, constipation, abdominal 
distension, dysphagia, faeces discoloured, swollen 
tongue, gastrointestinal motility disorder, flatulence 
Transaminases increased 
Blood bilirubin increased (hyperbilirubinemia), 
jaundice 
Not known  Drug-induced liver injury* 
* Cases of drug-induced liver injury have been 
reported in patients with ITP and HCV 
Petechiae, rash, pruritus, urticaria, skin lesion, rash 
macular 
Skin discolouration, skin hyperpigmentation 
Arthralgia, pain in extremity, muscle spasms 
Back pain, myalgia, bone pain 
Chromaturia 
Fatigue, pyrexia, chills 
Asthenia, oedema peripheral, malaise 
Blood creatine phosphokinase increased 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculosketal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Common 
Not known 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Very 
common 
Common 
Common 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Thrombotic/thromboembolic events (TEEs) 
In 3 controlled and 2 uncontrolled clinical studies among adult ITP patients receiving eltrombopag 
(n=446), 17 patients experienced a total of 19 TEEs, which included (in descending order of 
occurrence) deep vein thrombosis (n=6), pulmonary embolism (n=6), acute myocardial infarction 
(n=2), cerebral infarction (n=2), embolism (n=1) (see section 4.4). 
In a placebo-controlled study (n=288, Safety population), following 2 weeks’ treatment in preparation 
for invasive procedures, 6 of 143 (4%) adult patients with chronic liver disease receiving eltrombopag 
experienced 7 TEEs of the portal venous system and 2 of 145 (1%) patients in the placebo group 
experienced 3 TEEs. Five of the 6 patients treated with eltrombopag experienced the TEE at a platelet 
count >200 000/µl. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No specific risk factors were identified in those patients who experienced a TEE with the exception of 
platelet counts ≥200 000/µl (see section 4.4). 
In controlled studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV (n=1 439), 38 out of 955 patients (4%) 
treated with eltrombopag experienced a TEE and 6 out of 484 patients (1%) in the placebo group 
experienced TEEs. Portal vein thrombosis was the most common TEE in both treatment groups (2% in 
patients treated with eltrombopag versus <1% for placebo) (see section 4.4). Patients with low albumin 
levels (≤35 g/l) or MELD ≥10 had a 2-fold greater risk of TEEs than those with higher albumin levels; 
those aged ≥60 years had a 2-fold greater risk of TEEs compared to younger patients. 
Hepatic decompensation (use with interferon) 
Chronic HCV patients with cirrhosis may be at risk of hepatic decompensation when receiving alfa 
interferon therapy. In 2 controlled clinical studies in thrombocytopenic patients with HCV, hepatic 
decompensation (ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal haemorrhage, spontaneous bacterial 
peritonitis) was reported more frequently in the eltrombopag arm (11%) than in the placebo arm (6%). 
In patients with low albumin levels (≤35 g/l) or MELD score ≥10 at baseline, there was a 3-fold 
greater risk of hepatic decompensation and an increase in the risk of a fatal adverse event compared to 
those with less advanced liver disease. Eltrombopag should only be administered to such patients after 
careful consideration of the expected benefits in comparison with the risks. Patients with these 
characteristics should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatic decompensation (see 
section 4.4). 
Hepatotoxicity 
In the controlled clinical studies in chronic ITP with eltrombopag, increases in serum ALT, AST and 
bilirubin were observed (see section 4.4). 
These findings were mostly mild (Grade 1-2), reversible and not accompanied by clinically significant 
symptoms that would indicate an impaired liver function. Across the 3 placebo-controlled studies in 
adults with chronic ITP, 1 patient in the placebo group and 1 patient in the eltrombopag group 
experienced a Grade 4 liver test abnormality. In two placebo-controlled studies in paediatric patients 
(aged 1 to 17 years) with chronic ITP, ALT 3 x ULN was reported in 4.7% and 0% of the 
eltrombopag and placebo groups, respectively. 
In 2 controlled clinical studies in patients with HCV, ALT or AST 3 x ULN was reported in 34% and 
38% of the eltrombopag and placebo groups, respectively. Most patients receiving eltrombopag in 
combination with peginterferon / ribavirin therapy will experience indirect hyperbilirubinaemia. 
Overall, total bilirubin ≥1.5 x ULN was reported in 76% and 50% of the eltrombopag and placebo 
groups, respectively. 
In the single-arm phase II monotherapy refractory SAA study, concurrent ALT or AST >3 x ULN 
with total (indirect) bilirubin >1.5 x ULN were reported in 5% of patients. Total bilirubin >1.5 x ULN 
occurred in 14% of patients. 
Thrombocytopenia following discontinuation of treatment 
In the 3 controlled clinical ITP studies, transient decreases in platelet counts to levels lower than 
baseline were observed following discontinuation of treatment in 8% and 8% of the eltrombopag and 
placebo groups, respectively (see section 4.4). 
Increased bone marrow reticulin 
Across the programme, no patients had evidence of clinically relevant bone marrow abnormalities or 
clinical findings that would indicate bone marrow dysfunction. In a small number of ITP patients, 
eltrombopag treatment was discontinued due to bone marrow reticulin (see section 4.4). 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytogenetic abnormalities 
In the phase II refractory SAA clinical study with eltrombopag with a starting dose of 50 mg/day 
(escalated every 2 weeks to a maximum of 150 mg/day) (ELT112523), the incidence of new 
cytogenetic abnormalities was observed in 17.1% of adult patients [7/41 (where 4 of them had changes 
in chromosome 7)]. The median time on study to a cytogenetic abnormality was 2.9 months. 
In the phase II refractory SAA clinical study with eltrombopag at a dose of 150 mg/day (with ethnic or 
age related modifications as indicated) (ELT116826), the incidence of new cytogenetic abnormalities 
was observed in 22.6% of adult patients [7/31 (where 3 of them had changes in chromosome 7)]. All 
7 patients had normal cytogenetics at baseline. Six patients had cytogenetic abnormality at Month 3 of 
eltrombopag therapy and one patient had cytogenetic abnormality at Month 6. 
Haematologic malignancies 
In the single-arm, open-label study in SAA, three (7%) patients were diagnosed with MDS following 
treatment with eltrombopag, in the two ongoing studies (ELT116826 and ELT116643), 1/28 (4%) and 
1/62 (2%) patient has been diagnosed with MDS or AML in each study. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In the event of overdose, platelet counts may increase excessively and result in 
thrombotic/thromboembolic complications. In case of an overdose, consideration should be given to 
oral administration of a metal cation-containing preparation, such as calcium, aluminium, or 
magnesium preparations to chelate eltrombopag and thus limit absorption. Platelet counts should be 
closely monitored. Treatment with eltrombopag should be reinitiated in accordance with dosing and 
administration recommendations (see section 4.2). 
In the clinical studies there was one report of overdose where the patient ingested 5 000 mg of 
eltrombopag. Reported adverse reactions included mild rash, transient bradycardia, ALT and AST 
elevation, and fatigue. Liver enzymes measured between Days 2 and 18 after ingestion peaked at a 
1.6-fold ULN in AST, a 3.9-fold ULN in ALT, and a 2.4-fold ULN in total bilirubin. The platelet 
counts were 672 000/µl on Day 18 after ingestion and the maximum platelet count was 929 000/µl. All 
events were resolved without sequelae following treatment. 
Because eltrombopag is not significantly renally excreted and is highly bound to plasma proteins, 
haemodialysis would not be expected to be an effective method to enhance the elimination of 
eltrombopag. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antihemorrhagics, other systemic hemostatics. ATC code: B02BX 05. 
Mechanism of action 
TPO is the main cytokine involved in regulation of megakaryopoiesis and platelet production, and is 
the endogenous ligand for the TPO-R. Eltrombopag interacts with the transmembrane domain of the 
human TPO-R and initiates signalling cascades similar but not identical to that of endogenous 
thrombopoietin (TPO), inducing proliferation and differentiation from bone marrow progenitor cells. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Immune (primary) thrombocytopenia (ITP) studies 
Two phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies RAISE (TRA102537) and 
TRA100773B and two open-label studies REPEAT (TRA108057) and EXTEND (TRA105325) 
evaluated the safety and efficacy of eltrombopag in adult patients with previously treated ITP. Overall, 
eltrombopag was administered to 277 ITP patients for at least 6 months and 202 patients for at least 
1 year. The single-arm phase II study TAPER (CETB115J2411) evaluated the safety and efficacy of 
eltrombopag and its ability to induce sustained response after treatment discontinuation in 105 adult 
ITP patients who relapsed or failed to respond to first-line corticosteroid treatment. 
Double-blind placebo-controlled studies 
RAISE: 
197 ITP patients were randomised 2:1, eltrombopag (n=135) to placebo (n=62), and randomisation 
was stratified based upon splenectomy status, use of ITP medicinal products at baseline and baseline 
platelet count. The dose of eltrombopag was adjusted during the 6 month treatment period based on 
individual platelet counts. All patients initiated treatment with eltrombopag 50 mg. From Day 29 to 
the end of treatment, 15 to 28% of eltrombopag treated patients were maintained on ≤25 mg and 29 to 
53% received 75 mg. 
In addition, patients could taper off concomitant ITP medicinal products and receive rescue treatments 
as dictated by local standard of care. More than half of all patients in each treatment group had ≥3 
prior ITP therapies and 36% had a prior splenectomy. 
Median platelet counts at baseline were 16 000/l for both treatment groups and in the eltrombopag 
group were maintained above 50 000/µl at all on-therapy visits starting at Day 15; in contrast, median 
platelet counts in the placebo group remained <30 000/µl throughout the study. 
Platelet count response between 50 000-400 000/l in the absence of rescue treatment was achieved by 
significantly more patients in the eltrombopag treated group during the 6-month treatment period, 
p <0.001. Fifty-four percent of the eltrombopag-treated patients and 13% of placebo-treated patients 
achieved this level of response after 6 weeks of treatment. A similar platelet response was maintained 
throughout the study, with 52% and 16% of patients responding at the end of the 6-month treatment 
period. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 
Secondary efficacy results from RAISE 
Key secondary endpoints 
Number of cumulative weeks with platelet counts 
50 000-400 000/µl, Mean (SD) 
Patients with ≥75% of assessments in the target range (50 000 to 
400 000/l), n (%) 
p-value a 
Patients with bleeding (WHO Grades 1-4) at any time during 
6 months, n (%) 
p-value a 
Patients with bleeding (WHO Grades 2-4) at any time during 
6 months, n (%) 
p-value a 
Requiring rescue therapy, n (%) 
p-value a 
Patients receiving ITP therapy at baseline (n) 
Eltrombopag 
N=135 
Placebo 
N=62 
11.3 (9.46) 
2.4 (5.95) 
51 (38) 
4 (7) 
<0.001 
106 (79) 
56 (93) 
0.012 
44 (33) 
32 (53) 
0.002 
24 (18) 
25 (40) 
0.001 
63 
37 (59) 
31 
10 (32) 
Patients who attempted to reduce or discontinue baseline 
therapy, n (%)b 
  p-value a 
Logistic regression model adjusted for randomisation stratification variables 
21 out of 63 (33%) patients treated with eltrombopag who were taking an ITP medicinal product 
at baseline permanently discontinued all baseline ITP medicinal products. 
0.016 
a 
b 
At baseline, more than 70% of ITP patients in each treatment group reported any bleeding (WHO 
Grades 1-4) and more than 20% reported clinically significant bleeding (WHO Grades 2-4), 
respectively. The proportion of eltrombopag-treated patients with any bleeding (Grades 1-4) and 
clinically significant bleeding (Grades 2-4) was reduced from baseline by approximately 50% from 
Day 15 to the end of treatment throughout the 6-month treatment period. 
TRA100773B: 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of responders, defined as ITP patients who had an 
increase in platelet counts to 50 000/l at Day 43 from a baseline of <30 000/l; patients who 
withdrew prematurely due to a platelet count 200 000/l were considered responders, those that 
discontinued for any other reason were considered non-responders irrespective of platelet count. A 
total of 114 patients with previously treated ITP were randomised 2:1 eltrombopag (n=76) to placebo 
(n=38). 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Efficacy results from TRA100773B 
Key primary endpoints 
Eligible for efficacy analysis, n 
Patients with platelet count 50 000/l after up to 42 days 
of dosing (compared to a baseline count of <30 000/l), n 
(%) 
p-valuea 
Key secondary endpoints 
Patients with a Day 43 bleeding assessment, n 
Bleeding (WHO Grades 1-4) n (%) 
p-valuea 
Eltrombopag 
N=74 
73 
43 (59) 
Placebo 
N=38 
37 
6 (16) 
<0.001 
51 
20 (39) 
30 
18 (60) 
0.029 
a 
Logistic regression model adjusted for randomisation stratification variables 
In both RAISE and TRA100773B the response to eltrombopag relative to placebo was similar 
irrespective of ITP medicinal product use, splenectomy status and baseline platelet count (≤15 000/µl, 
>15 000/µl) at randomisation. 
In RAISE and TRA100773B studies, in the subgroup of ITP patients with baseline platelet count 
≤15 000/μl the median platelet counts did not reach the target level (>50 000/l), although in both 
studies 43% of these patients treated with eltrombopag responded after 6 weeks of treatment. In 
addition, in the RAISE study, 42% of patients with baseline platelet count ≤15 000/μl treated with 
eltrombopag responded at the end of the 6-month treatment period. Forty-two to 60% of the 
eltrombopag-treated patients in the RAISE study were receiving 75 mg from Day 29 to the end of 
treatment. 
Open-label non-controlled studies 
REPEAT (TRA108057): 
This open-label, repeat-dose study (3 cycles of 6 weeks of treatment, followed by 4 weeks off 
treatment) showed that episodic use with multiple courses of eltrombopag has demonstrated no loss of 
response. 
EXTEND (TRA105325): 
Eltrombopag was administered to 302 ITP patients in this open-label extension study, 218 patients 
completed 1 year, 180 completed 2 years, 107 completed 3 years, 75 completed 4 years, 34 completed 
5 years and 18 completed 6 years. The median baseline platelet count was 19 000/l prior to 
eltrombopag administration. Median platelet counts at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 years on study were 
85 000/l, 85 000/l, 105 000/l, 64 000/l, 75 000/l, 119 000/l and 76 000/l, respectively. 
TAPER (CETB115J2411): 
This was a single-arm phase II study including ITP patients treated with eltrombopag after first-line 
corticosteroid failure irrespective of time since diagnosis. A total of 105 patients were enrolled on the 
study and started eltrombopag treatment on 50 mg once daily (25 mg once daily for patients of East-
/Southeast-Asian ancestry). The dose of eltrombopag was adjusted during the treatment period based 
on individual platelet counts with the goal to achieve a platelet count ≥100 000/l. 
Of the 105 patients who were enrolled in the study and who received at least one dose of eltrombopag, 
69 patients (65.7%) completed treatment and 36 patients (34.3%) discontinued treatment early. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of sustained response off treatment 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with sustained response off treatment until 
Month 12. Patients who reached a platelet count of ≥100 000/µl and maintained platelet counts around 
100 000/µl for 2 months (no counts below 70 000/µl) were eligible for tapering off eltrombopag and 
treatment discontinuation. To be considered as having achieved a sustained response off treatment, a 
patient had to maintain platelet counts ≥30 000/µl, in the absence of bleeding events or the use of 
rescue therapy, both during the treatment tapering period and following discontinuation of treatment 
until Month 12. 
The duration of tapering was individualised depending on the starting dose and the response of the 
patient. The tapering schedule recommended dose reductions of 25 mg every 2 weeks if the platelet 
counts were stable. After the daily dose was reduced to 25 mg for 2 weeks, the dose of 25 mg was then 
only administered on alternate days for 2 weeks until treatment discontinuation. The tapering was 
done in smaller decrements of 12.5 mg every second week for patients of East-/Southeast-Asian 
ancestry. If a relapse (defined as platelet count <30 000/µl) occurred, patients were offered a new 
course of eltrombopag at the appropriate starting dose. 
Eighty-nine patients (84.8%) achieved a complete response (platelet count ≥100 000/µl) (Step 1, 
Table 6) and 65 patients (61.9%) maintained the complete response for at least 2 months with no 
platelet counts below 70 000/µl (Step 2, Table 6). Forty-four patients (41.9%) were able to be tapered 
off eltrombopag until treatment discontinuation while maintaining platelet counts ≥30 000/µl in the 
absence of bleeding events or the use of rescue therapy (Step 3, Table 6). 
The study met the primary objective by demonstrating that eltrombopag was able to induce sustained 
response off treatment, in the absence of bleeding events or the use of rescue therapy, by Month 12 in 
32 of the 105 enrolled patients (30.5%; p<0.0001; 95% CI: 21.9, 40.2) (Step 4, Table 6). By Month 24, 
20 of the 105 enrolled patients (19.0%; 95% CI: 12.0, 27.9) maintained sustained response off 
treatment in the absence of bleeding events or the use of rescue therapy (Step 5, Table 6). 
The median duration of sustained response after treatment discontinuation to Month 12 was 
33.3 weeks (min-max: 4-51), and the median duration of sustained response after treatment 
discontinuation to Month 24 was 88.6 weeks (min-max: 57-107). 
After tapering off and discontinuation of eltrombopag treatment, 12 patients had a loss of response, 8 
of them re-started eltrombopag and 7 had a recovery response. 
During the 2-year follow-up, 6 out of 105 patients (5.7%) experienced thromboembolic events, of 
which 3 patients (2.9%) experienced deep vein thrombosis, 1 patient (1.0%) experienced superficial 
vein thrombosis, 1 patient (1.0%) experienced cavernous sinus thrombosis, 1 patient (1.0%) 
experienced cerebrovascular accident and 1 patient (1.0%) experienced pulmonary embolism. Of the 
6 patients, 4 patients experienced thromboembolic events that were reported at or greater than 
Grade 3, and 4 patients experienced thromboembolic event that were reported as serious. No fatal 
cases were reported. 
Twenty out of 105 patients (19.0%) experienced mild to severe haemorrhage events on treatment 
before tapering started. Five out of 65 patients (7.7%) who started tapering experienced mild to 
moderate haemorrhage events during tapering. No severe haemorrhage event occurred during tapering. 
Two out of 44 patients (4.5%) who tapered off and discontinued eltrombopag treatment experienced 
mild to moderate haemorrhage events after treatment discontinuation until Month 12. No severe 
haemorrhage event occurred during this period. None of the patients who discontinued eltrombopag 
and entered the second year follow-up experienced haemorrhage event during the second year. Two 
fatal intracranial haemorrhage events were reported during the 2-year follow-up. Both events occurred 
on treatment, not in the context of tapering. The events were not considered to be related to study 
treatment. 
The overall safety analysis is consistent with previously reported data and the risk-benefit assessment 
remained unchanged for the use of eltrombopag in patients with ITP. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 
Proportion of patients with sustained response off treatment at Month 12 and at 
Month 24 (full analysis set) in TAPER 
Step 1: Patients who reached platelet count ≥100 000/µl at least 
once 
All patients 
N=105 
n (%) 
89 (84.8) 
95% CI 
(76.4, 91.0) 
Hypothesis testing 
p-value  Reject H0 
Step 2: Patients who maintained stable platelet count for 
65 (61.9) 
(51.9, 71.2) 
2 months after reaching 100 000/µl (no counts 
<70 000/µl) 
Step 3: Patients who were able to be tapered off eltrombopag 
44 (41.9) 
(32.3, 51.9) 
until treatment discontinuation, maintaining platelet count 
≥30 000/µl in the absence of bleeding events or use of 
any rescue therapy 
Step 4: Patients with sustained response off treatment until 
32 (30.5) 
(21.9, 40.2)  <0.0001* 
Yes 
Month 12, with platelet count maintained ≥30 000/µl in 
the absence of bleeding events or use of any rescue 
therapy 
Step 5: Patients with sustained response off treatment from 
Month 12 to Month 24, maintaining platelet count 
≥30 000/µl in the absence of bleeding events or use of 
any rescue therapy 
20 (19.0) 
(12.0, 27.9) 
N: The total number of patients in the treatment group. This is the denominator for percentage (%) calculation. 
n: Number of patients in the corresponding category. 
The 95% CI for the frequency distribution was computed using Clopper-Pearson exact method. Clopper-Pearson test was used 
for testing whether the proportion of responders was >15%. CI and p-values are reported. 
* Indicates statistical significance (one-sided) at the 0.05 level. 
Results of response on treatment analysis by time since ITP diagnosis 
An ad-hoc analysis was conducted on the n=105 patients by time since ITP diagnosis to assess the 
response to eltrombopag across four different ITP categories by time since diagnosis (newly diagnosed 
ITP <3 months, persistent ITP 3 to <6 months, persistent ITP 6 to ≤12 months, and chronic ITP 
>12 months). 49% of patients (n=51) had an ITP diagnosis of <3 months, 20% (n=21) of 3 to 
<6 months, 17% (n=18) of 6 to ≤12 months and 14% (n=15) of >12 months. 
Until the cut-off date (22-Oct-2021), patients were exposed to eltrombopag for a median (Q1-Q3) 
duration of 6.2 months (2.3-12.0 months). The median (Q1-Q3) platelet count at baseline was 
16 000/l (7 800-28 000/l). 
Platelet count response, defined as a platelet count ≥50 000/l at least once by Week 9 without rescue 
therapy, was achieved in 84% (95% CI: 71% to 93%) of newly diagnosed ITP patients, 91% (95% CI: 
70% to 99%) and 94% (95% CI: 73% to 100%) of persistent ITP patients (i.e. with ITP diagnosis 3 to 
<6 months and 6 to ≤12 months, respectively), and in 87% (95% CI: 60% to 98%) of chronic ITP 
patients. 
The rate of complete response, defined as platelet count ≥100 000/l at least once by Week 9 without 
rescue therapy, was 75% (95% CI: 60% to 86%) in newly diagnosed ITP patients, 76% (95% CI: 53% 
to 92%) and 72% (95% CI: 47% to 90%) in persistent ITP patients (ITP diagnosis 3 to <6 months and 
6 to ≤12 months, respectively), and 87% (95% CI: 60% to 98%) in chronic ITP patients. 
The rate of durable response, defined as a platelet count ≥50 000/l for at least 6 out of 8 consecutive 
assessments without rescue therapy during the first 6 months on study, was 71% (95% CI: 56% to 83%) 
in newly diagnosed ITP patients, 81% (95% CI: 58% to 95%) and 72% (95% CI: 47% to 90.3%) in 
persistent ITP patients (ITP diagnosis 3 to <6 months and 6 to ≤12 months, respectively), and 80% (95% 
CI: 52% to 96%) in chronic ITP patients. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When assessed with the WHO Bleeding Scale, the proportion of newly diagnosed and persistent ITP 
patients without bleeding at Week 4 ranged from 88% to 95% compared to 37% to 57% at baseline. 
For chronic ITP patients it was 93% compared to 73% at baseline. 
The safety of eltrombopag was consistent across all ITP categories and in line with its known safety 
profile. 
Clinical studies comparing eltrombopag to other treatment options (e.g. splenectomy) have not been 
conducted. The long-term safety of eltrombopag should be considered prior to starting therapy. 
Paediatric population (aged 1 to 17 years) 
The safety and efficacy of eltrombopag in paediatric patients have been investigated two studies. 
TRA115450 (PETIT2): 
The primary endpoint was a sustained response, defined as the proportion of patients receiving 
eltrombopag, compared to placebo, achieving platelet counts ≥50 000/µl for at least 6 out of 8 weeks 
(in the absence of rescue therapy), between weeks 5 to 12 during the double-blind randomised period. 
Patients were diagnosed with chronic ITP for at least 1 year and were refractory or relapsed to at least 
one prior ITP therapy or unable to continue other ITP treatments for a medical reason and had platelet 
count <30 000/µl. Ninety-two patients were randomised by three age cohort strata (2:1) to 
eltrombopag (n=63) or placebo (n=29). The dose of eltrombopag could be adjusted based on 
individual platelet counts. 
Overall, a significantly greater proportion of eltrombopag patients (40%) compared with placebo 
patients (3%) achieved the primary endpoint (Odds Ratio: 18.0 [95% CI: 2.3, 140.9] p <0.001) which 
was similar across the three age cohorts (Table 7). 
Table 7 
Sustained platelet response rates by age cohort in paediatric patients with chronic 
ITP 
Cohort 1 (12 to 17 years) 
Cohort 2 (6 to 11 years) 
Cohort 3 (1 to 5 years) 
Eltrombopag 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
9/23 (39%) 
[20%, 61%] 
11/26 (42%) 
[23%, 63%] 
5/14 (36%) 
[13%, 65%] 
Placebo 
n/N (%) 
[95% CI] 
1/10 (10%) 
[0%, 45%] 
0/13 (0%) 
[N/A] 
0/6 (0%) 
[N/A] 
Statistically fewer eltrombopag patients required rescue treatment during the randomised period 
compared to placebo patients (19% [12/63] vs. 24% [7/29], p=0.032). 
At baseline, 71% of patients in the eltrombopag group and 69% in the placebo group reported any 
bleeding (WHO Grades 1-4). At Week 12, the proportion of eltrombopag patients reporting any 
bleeding was decreased to half of baseline (36%). In comparison, at Week 12, 55% of placebo patients 
reported any bleeding. 
Patients were permitted to reduce or discontinue baseline ITP therapy only during the open-label phase 
of the study and 53% (8/15) of patients were able to reduce (n=1) or discontinue (n=7) baseline ITP 
therapy, mainly corticosteroids, without needing rescue therapy. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRA108062 (PETIT): 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients achieving platelet counts ≥50 000/µl at least once 
between weeks 1 and 6 of the randomised period. Patients were diagnosed with ITP for at least 
6 months and were refractory or relapsed to at least one prior ITP therapy with a platelet count 
<30 000/µl (n=67). During the randomised period of the study, patients were randomised by three age 
cohort strata (2:1) to eltrombopag (n=45) or placebo (n=22). The dose of eltrombopag could be 
adjusted based on individual platelet counts. 
Overall, a significantly greater proportion of eltrombopag patients (62%) compared with placebo 
patients (32%) met the primary endpoint (Odds Ratio: 4.3 [95% CI: 1.4, 13.3] p=0.011). 
Sustained response was seen in 50% of the initial responders during 20 out of 24 weeks in the 
PETIT 2 study and 15 out of 24 weeks in the PETIT Study. 
Chronic hepatitis C associated thrombocytopenia studies 
The efficacy and safety of eltrombopag for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with HCV 
infection were evaluated in two randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. ENABLE 1 
utilised peginterferon alfa-2a plus ribavirin for antiviral treatment and ENABLE 2 utilised 
peginterferon alfa-2b plus ribavirin. Patients did not receive direct acting antiviral agents. In both 
studies, patients with a platelet count of <75 000/µl were enrolled and stratified by platelet count 
(<50 000/µl and ≥50 000/µl to <75 000/µl), screening HCV RNA (<800 000 IU/ml and 
≥800 000 IU/ml), and HCV genotype (genotype 2/3, and genotype 1/4/6). 
Baseline disease characteristics were similar in both studies and were consistent with compensated 
cirrhotic HCV patient population. The majority of patients were HCV genotype 1 (64%) and had 
bridging fibrosis/cirrhosis. Thirty-one percent of patients had been treated with prior HCV therapies, 
primarily pegylated interferon plus ribavirin. The median baseline platelet count was 59 500/µl in both 
treatment groups: 0.8%, 28% and 72% of the patients recruited had platelet counts <20 000/µl, 
<50 000/µl and ≥50 000/µl respectively. 
The studies consisted of two phases – a pre-antiviral treatment phase and an antiviral treatment phase. 
In the pre-antiviral treatment phase, patients received open-label eltrombopag to increase the platelet 
count to ≥90 000/µl for ENABLE 1 and ≥100 000/µl for ENABLE 2. The median time to achieve the 
target platelet count ≥90 000/µl (ENABLE 1) or ≥100 000/µl (ENABLE 2) was 2 weeks. 
The primary efficacy endpoint for both studies was sustained virologic response (SVR), defined as the 
percentage of patients with no detectable HCV-RNA at 24 weeks after completion of the planned 
treatment period. 
In both HCV studies, a significantly greater proportion of patients treated with eltrombopag (n=201, 
21%) achieved SVR compared to those treated with placebo (n=65, 13%) (see Table 8). The 
improvement in the proportion of patients who achieved SVR was consistent across all subgroups in 
the randomisation strata (baseline platelet counts (<50 000 vs. >50 000), viral load (<800 000 IU/ml 
vs. ≥800 000 IU/ml) and genotype (2/3 vs. 1/4/6)). 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
Virologic response in HCV patients in ENABLE 1 and ENABLE 2 
Pooled data 
ENABLE 1a 
ENABLE 2b 
1 439/1 520 (95%) 
680/715 (95%) 
759/805 (94%) 
Eltrombopag 
n=956 
Placebo 
n=485 
Eltrombopag 
n=450 
Placebo 
n=232 
Eltrombopag 
n=506 
Placebo 
n=253 
Patients achieving 
target platelet counts 
and initiating antiviral 
therapy c 
Total number of 
patients entering 
antiviral treatment 
phase 
Overall SVR d 
HCV RNA Genotype 
Genotype 2/3 
Genotype 1/4/6e 
Albumin levels f 
≤35g/l 
>35g/l
MELD scoref 
≥10 
<10 
a 
21 
35 
15 
11 
25 
18 
23 
% patients achieving virologic response 
19 
14 
13 
23 
35 
18 
24 
10 
34 
13 
25 
8 
8 
16 
10 
17 
13 
25 
7 
Eltrombopag given in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a (180 μg once weekly for 
48 weeks for genotypes 1/4/6; 24 weeks for genotype 2/3) plus ribavirin (800 to 1 200 mg daily 
in 2 divided doses orally) 
Eltrombopag given in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b (1.5 μg/kg once weekly for 
48 weeks for genotype 1/4/6; 24 weeks for genotype 2/3) plus ribavirin (800 to 1 400 mg orally 
in 2 divided doses) 
Target platelet count was 90 000/µl for ENABLE 1 and 100 000/µl for ENABLE 2. For 
ENABLE 1, 682 patients were randomised to the antiviral treatment phase; however 2 patients 
then withdrew consent prior to receiving antiviral therapy. 
p-value <0.05 for eltrombopag versus placebo
64% patients participating in ENABLE 1 and ENABLE 2 were genotype 1 
Post-hoc analyses 
b 
c 
d 
e 
f 
Other secondary findings of the studies included the following: significantly fewer patients treated 
with eltrombopag prematurely discontinued antiviral therapy compared to placebo (45% vs. 60%, 
p=<0.0001). A greater proportion of patients on eltrombopag did not require any antiviral dose 
reduction as compared to placebo (45% vs. 27%). Eltrombopag treatment delayed and reduced the 
number of peginterferon dose reductions. 
Severe aplastic anaemia 
Eltrombopag was studied in a single-arm, single-centre open-label study in 43 patients with severe 
aplastic anaemia with refractory thrombocytopenia following at least one prior immunosuppressive 
therapy (IST) and who had a platelet count ≤30 000/µl. 
The majority of patients, 33 (77%), were considered to have ‘primary refractory disease’, defined as 
having no prior adequate response to IST in any lineage. The remaining 10 patients had insufficient 
platelet response to prior therapies. All 10 had received at least 2 prior IST regimens and 50% had 
received at least 3 prior IST regimens. Patients with diagnosis of Fanconi anaemia, infection not 
responding to appropriate therapy, PNH clone size in neutrophils of ≥50%, where excluded from 
participation. 
68 
At baseline the median platelet count was 20 000/µl, haemoglobin was 8.4 g/dl, ANC was 0.58 x 109/l 
and absolute reticulocyte count was 24.3 x109/l. Eighty-six percent of patients were RBC transfusion 
dependent, and 91% were platelet transfusion dependent. The majority of patients (84%) had received 
at least 2 prior immunosuppressive therapies. Three patients had cytogenetic abnormalities at baseline. 
The primary endpoint was haematological response assessed after 12 weeks of eltrombopag treatment. 
Haematological response was defined as meeting one or more of the following criteria: 1) platelet 
count increases to 20 000/µl above baseline or stable platelet counts with transfusion independence for 
a minimum of 8 weeks; 2) haemoglobin increase by >1.5g/dl, or a reduction in ≥4 units of red blood 
cell (RBC) transfusions for 8 consecutive weeks; 3) absolute neutrophil count (ANC) increase of 
100% or an ANC increase >0.5 x 109/l. 
The haematological response rate was 40% (17/43 patients; 95 % CI 25, 56), the majority were 
unilineage responses (13/17, 76%) whilst there were 3 bilineage and 1 trilineage responses at week 12. 
Eltrombopag was discontinued after 16 weeks if no haematological response or transfusion 
independence was observed. Patients who responded continued therapy in an extension phase of the 
study. A total of 14 patients entered the extension phase of the trial. Nine of these patients achieved a 
multi-lineage response, 4 of the 9 remain on treatment and 5 tapered off treatment with eltrombopag 
and maintained the response (median follow up: 20.6 months, range: 5.7 to 22.5 months). The 
remaining 5 patients discontinued treatment, three due to relapse at the month 3 extension visit. 
During treatment with eltrombopag 59% (23/39) became platelet transfusion independent (28 days 
without platelet transfusion) and 27% (10/37) became RBC transfusion independent (56 days without 
RBC transfusion). The longest platelet transfusion-free period for non-responders was 27 days 
(median). The longest platelet transfusion-free period for responders was 287 days (median). The 
longest RBC transfusion-free period for non-responders was 29 days (median). The longest RBC 
transfusion-free period for responders was 266 days (median). 
Over 50% of responders who were transfusion-dependent at baseline, had >80% reduction in both 
platelet and RBC transfusion requirements compared to baseline. 
Preliminary results from a supportive study (Study ELT116826), an ongoing non-randomised, 
phase II, single-arm, open-label study in refractory SAA patients, showed consistent results. Data are 
limited to 21 out of the planned 60 patients with haematological responses reported by 52% of patients 
at 6 months. Multilineage responses were reported by 45% of patients. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetics 
The plasma eltrombopag concentration-time data collected in 88 patients with ITP in studies 
TRA100773A and TRA100773B were combined with data from 111 healthy adult subjects in a 
population PK analysis. Plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) and Cmax estimates for ITP patients are 
presented (Table 9). 
Table 9 
Geometric mean (95% confidence intervals) of steady-state plasma eltrombopag 
pharmacokinetic parameters in adults with ITP 
Eltrombopag dose, 
once daily 
30 mg 
50 mg 
75 mg 
N 
28 
34 
26 
AUC(0-)
a, g.h/ml 
Cmax
a, g/ml 
47 (39, 58) 
108 (88, 134) 
168 (143, 198) 
3.78 (3.18, 4.49) 
8.01 (6.73, 9.53) 
12.7 (11.0, 14.5) 
a 
AUC(0-) and Cmax based on population PK post-hoc estimates. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plasma eltrombopag concentration-time data collected in 590 patients with HCV enrolled in phase III 
studies TPL103922/ENABLE 1 and TPL108390/ENABLE 2 were combined with data from patients 
with HCV enrolled in the phase II study TPL102357 and healthy adult subjects in a population PK 
analysis. Plasma eltrombopag Cmax and AUC(0-) estimates for patients with HCV enrolled in the 
phase III studies are presented for each dose studied in Table 10. 
Table 10  Geometric mean (95% CI) steady-state plasma eltrombopag pharmacokinetic 
parameters in patients with chronic HCV 
Eltrombopag dose 
(once daily) 
25 mg 
50 mg 
75 mg 
100 mg 
N 
330 
119 
45 
96 
AUC(0-) 
(g.h/ml) 
118 
(109, 128) 
166 
(143, 192) 
301 
(250, 363) 
354 
(304, 411) 
Cmax 
(g/ml) 
6.40 
(5.97, 6.86) 
9.08 
(7.96, 10.35) 
16.71 
(14.26, 19.58) 
19.19 
(16.81, 21.91) 
Data presented as geometric mean (95% CI). 
AUC (0-) and Cmax based on population PK post-hoc estimates at the highest dose in the data for each 
patient. 
Absorption and bioavailability 
Eltrombopag is absorbed with a peak concentration occurring 2 to 6 hours after oral administration. 
Administration of eltrombopag concomitantly with antacids and other products containing polyvalent 
cations such as dairy products and mineral supplements significantly reduces eltrombopag exposure 
(see section 4.2). In a relative bioavailability study in adults, the eltrombopag powder for oral 
suspension delivered 22% higher plasma AUC(0-) than the film-coated tablet formulation. The 
absolute oral bioavailability of eltrombopag after administration to humans has not been established. 
Based on urinary excretion and metabolites eliminated in faeces, the oral absorption of drug-related 
material following administration of a single 75 mg eltrombopag solution dose was estimated to be at 
least 52%. 
Distribution 
Eltrombopag is highly bound to human plasma proteins (>99.9%), predominantly to albumin. 
Eltrombopag is a substrate for BCRP, but is not a substrate for P-glycoprotein or OATP1B1. 
Biotransformation 
Eltrombopag is primarily metabolised through cleavage, oxidation and conjugation with glucuronic 
acid, glutathione, or cysteine. In a human radiolabel study, eltrombopag accounted for approximately 
64% of plasma radiocarbon AUC0-. Minor metabolites due to glucuronidation and oxidation were 
also detected. In vitro studies suggest that CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 are responsible for oxidative 
metabolism of eltrombopag. Uridine diphosphoglucuronyl transferase UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 are 
responsible for glucuronidation, and bacteria in the lower gastrointestinal tract may be responsible for 
the cleavage pathway. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
Absorbed eltrombopag is extensively metabolised. The predominant route of eltrombopag excretion is 
via faeces (59%) with 31% of the dose found in the urine as metabolites. Unchanged parent compound 
(eltrombopag) is not detected in urine. Unchanged eltrombopag excreted in faeces accounts for 
approximately 20% of the dose. The plasma elimination half-life of eltrombopag is approximately 
21-32 hours. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Based on a human study with radiolabelled eltrombopag, glucuronidation plays a minor role in the 
metabolism of eltrombopag. Human liver microsome studies identified UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 as the 
enzymes responsible for eltrombopag glucuronidation. Eltrombopag was an inhibitor of a number of 
UGT enzymes in vitro. Clinically significant drug interactions involving glucuronidation are not 
anticipated due to limited contribution of individual UGT enzymes in the glucuronidation of 
eltrombopag. 
Approximately 21% of an eltrombopag dose could undergo oxidative metabolism. Human liver 
microsome studies identified CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 as the enzymes responsible for eltrombopag 
oxidation. Eltrombopag does not inhibit or induce CYP enzymes based on in vitro and in vivo data 
(see section 4.5). 
In vitro studies demonstrate that eltrombopag is an inhibitor of the OATP1B1 transporter and an 
inhibitor of the BCRP transporter and eltrombopag increased exposure of the OATP1B1 and BCRP 
substrate rosuvastatin in a clinical drug interaction study (see section 4.5). In clinical studies with 
eltrombopag, a dose reduction of statins by 50% was recommended. 
Eltrombopag chelates with polyvalent cations such as iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, selenium 
and zinc (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
In vitro studies demonstrated that eltrombopag is not a substrate for the organic anion transporter 
polypeptide, OATP1B1, but is an inhibitor of this transporter (IC50 value of 2.7 μM [1.2 μg/ml]). In 
vitro studies also demonstrated that eltrombopag is a breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrate 
and inhibitor (IC50 value of 2.7 μM [1.2 μg/ml]). 
Special patient populations 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag have been studied after administration of eltrombopag to adult 
patients with renal impairment. Following administration of a single 50 mg dose, the AUC0- of 
eltrombopag was 32% to 36% lower in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, and 60% 
lower in patients with severe renal impairment compared with healthy volunteers. There was 
substantial variability and significant overlap in exposures between patients with renal impairment and 
healthy volunteers. Unbound eltrombopag (active) concentrations for this highly protein-bound 
medicinal product were not measured. Patients with impaired renal function should use eltrombopag 
with caution and close monitoring, for example by testing serum creatinine and/or urine analysis (see 
section 4.2). The efficacy and safety of eltrombopag have not been established in patients with both 
moderate to severe renal impairment and hepatic impairment. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag have been studied after administration of eltrombopag to adult 
patients with hepatic impairment. Following the administration of a single 50 mg dose, the AUC0- of 
eltrombopag was 41% higher in patients with mild hepatic impairment and 80% to 93% higher in 
patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment compared with healthy volunteers. There was 
substantial variability and significant overlap in exposures between patients with hepatic impairment 
and healthy volunteers. Unbound eltrombopag (active) concentrations for this highly protein-bound 
medicinal product were not measured. 
The influence of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag following repeat 
administration was evaluated using a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 28 healthy adults and 
714 patients with hepatic impairment (673 patients with HCV and 41 patients with chronic liver 
disease of other aetiology). Of the 714 patients, 642 were with mild hepatic impairment, 67 with 
moderate hepatic impairment, and 2 with severe hepatic impairment. Compared to healthy volunteers, 
patients with mild hepatic impairment had approximately 111% (95% CI: 45% to 283%) higher 
plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values and patients with moderate hepatic impairment had 
approximately 183% (95% CI: 90% to 459%) higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values. 
Therefore, eltrombopag should not be used in ITP patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 
≥5) unless the expected benefit outweighs the identified risk of portal venous thrombosis (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). For patients with HCV initiate eltrombopag at a dose of 25 mg once daily (see 
section 4.2). 
Race 
The influence of East-Asian ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag was evaluated using a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis in 111 healthy adults (31 East-Asians) and 88 patients with ITP 
(18 East-Asians). Based on estimates from the population pharmacokinetic analysis, East-Asian ITP 
patients had approximately 49% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values as compared to non- East-
Asian patients who were predominantly Caucasian (see section 4.2). 
The influence of East-/Southeast-Asian ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag was 
evaluated using a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 635 patients with HCV (145 East-Asians and 
69 Southeast-Asians). Based on estimates from the population pharmacokinetic analysis, East-
/Southeast-Asian patients had approximately 55% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values as 
compared to patients of other races who were predominantly Caucasian (see section 4.2). 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gender 
The influence of gender on the pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag was evaluated using a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis in 111 healthy adults (14 females) and 88 patients with ITP (57 females). 
Based on estimates from the population pharmacokinetic analysis, female ITP patients had 
approximately 23% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) as compared to male patients, without 
adjustment for body weight differences. 
The influence of gender on eltrombopag pharmacokinetics was evaluated using population 
pharmacokinetics analysis in 635 patients with HCV (260 females). Based on model estimate, female 
HCV patient had approximately 41% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) as compared to male 
patients. 
Age 
The influence of age on eltrombopag pharmacokinetics was evaluated using population 
pharmacokinetics analysis in 28 healthy subjects, 673 patients with HCV, and 41 patients with chronic 
liver disease of other aetiology ranging from 19 to 74 years old. There are no PK data on the use of 
eltrombopag in patients ≥75 years. Based on model estimate, elderly (≥65 years) patients had 
approximately 41% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) as compared to younger patients (see 
section 4.2). 
Paediatric Population (aged 1 to 17 years) 
The pharmacokinetics of eltrombopag have been evaluated in 168 paediatric ITP patients dosed once 
daily in two studies, TRA108062/PETIT and TRA115450/PETIT-2. Plasma eltrombopag apparent 
clearance following oral administration (CL/F) increased with increasing body weight. The effects of 
race and sex on plasma eltrombopag CL/F estimates were consistent between paediatric and adult 
patients. East-/Southeast-Asian paediatric ITP patients had approximately 43% higher plasma 
eltrombopag AUC(0-) values as compared to non-Asian patients. Female paediatric ITP patients had 
approximately 25% higher plasma eltrombopag AUC(0-) values as compared to male patients. 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of eltrombopag in paediatric patients with ITP are shown in 
Table 11. 
Table 11  Geometric mean (95% CI) steady-state plasma eltrombopag pharmacokinetic 
parameters in paediatric patients with ITP (50 mg once daily dosing regimen) 
Age 
12 to 17 years (n=62) 
6 to 11 years (n=68) 
1 to 5 years (n=38) 
Cmax 
(µg/ml) 
6.80 
(6.17, 7.50) 
10.3 
(9.42, 11.2) 
11.6 
(10.4, 12.9) 
AUC(0-) 
(µg.hr/ml) 
103 
(91.1, 116) 
153 
(137, 170) 
162 
(139, 187) 
Data presented as geometric mean (95% CI). AUC(0-) and Cmax based on population PK post-hoc 
estimates 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Safety pharmacology and repeat-dose toxicity 
Eltrombopag does not stimulate platelet production in mice, rats or dogs because of unique TPO 
receptor specificity. Therefore, data from these animals do not fully model potential adverse effects 
related to the pharmacology of eltrombopag in humans, including the reproduction and carcinogenicity 
studies. 
Treatment-related cataracts were detected in rodents and were dose and time-dependent. At ≥6 times 
the human clinical exposure in adult ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 3 times the human clinical 
exposure in adult HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC, cataracts were observed in mice after 
6 weeks and rats after 28 weeks of dosing. At 4 times the human clinical exposure in ITP patients at 
75 mg/day and 2 times the human exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC, cataracts 
were observed in mice after 13 weeks and in rats after 39 weeks of dosing. At non-tolerated doses in 
pre-weaning juvenile rats dosed from days 4-32 (approximately equating to a 2-year-old human at the 
end of the dosing period), ocular opacities were observed (histology not performed) at 9 times the 
maximum human clinical exposure in paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day, based on AUC. However, 
cataracts were not observed in juvenile rats given tolerated doses at 5 times the human clinical 
exposure in paediatric ITP patients, based on AUC. Cataracts have not been observed in adult dogs 
after 52 weeks of dosing at 2 times the human clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP patients at 
75 mg/day and equivalent to the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on 
AUC). 
Renal tubular toxicity was observed in studies of up to 14 days duration in mice and rats at exposures 
that were generally associated with morbidity and mortality. Tubular toxicity was also observed in a 
2-year oral carcinogenicity study in mice at doses of 25, 75 and 150 mg/kg/day. Effects were less 
severe at lower doses and were characterised by a spectrum of regenerative changes. The exposure at 
the lowest dose was 1.2 or 0.8 times the human clinical exposure based on AUC in adult or paediatric 
ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 0.6 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, 
based on AUC. Renal effects were not observed in rats after 28 weeks or in dogs after 52 weeks at 
exposures 4 and 2 times the human clinical exposure in adult ITP patients and 3 and 2 times the 
human clinical exposure in paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times and equivalent to the 
human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC. 
Hepatocyte degeneration and/or necrosis, often accompanied by increased serum liver enzymes, was 
observed in mice, rats and dogs at doses that were associated with morbidity and mortality or were 
poorly tolerated. No hepatic effects were observed after chronic dosing in rats (28 weeks) and in dogs 
(52 weeks) at 4 or 2 times the human clinical exposure in adult ITP and 3 or 2 times the human 
clinical exposure in paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times and equivalent to the human 
clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC. 
At poorly tolerated doses in rats and dogs (>10 or 7 times the human clinical exposure in adult or 
paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and>4 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 
100 mg/day, based on AUC), decreased reticulocyte counts and regenerative bone marrow erythroid 
hyperplasia (rats only) were observed in short-term studies. There were no effects of note on red cell 
mass or reticulocyte counts after dosing for up to 28 weeks in rats, 52 weeks in dogs and 2 years in 
mice or rats at maximally tolerated doses which were 2 to 4 times human clinical exposure in adult or 
paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and ≤2 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 
100 mg/day, based on AUC. 
Endosteal hyperostosis was observed in a 28-week toxicity study in rats at a non-tolerated dose of 
60 mg/kg/day (6 times or 4 times the human clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP patients at 
75 mg/day and 3 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC). 
There were no bone changes observed in mice or rats after lifetime exposure (2 years) at 4 times or 
2 times the human clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times the 
human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity 
Eltrombopag was not carcinogenic in mice at doses up to 75 mg/kg/day or in rats at doses up to 
40 mg/kg/day (exposures up to 4 or 2 times the human clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP 
patients at 75 mg/day and 2 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based 
on AUC). Eltrombopag was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a bacterial mutation assay or in two in 
vivo assays in rats (micronucleus and unscheduled DNA synthesis, 10 times or 8 times the human 
clinical exposure in adult or paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 7 times the human clinical 
exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on Cmax). In the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay, 
eltrombopag was marginally positive (<3-fold increase in mutation frequency). These in vitro and in 
vivo findings suggest that eltrombopag does not pose a genotoxic risk to humans. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Eltrombopag did not affect female fertility, early embryonic development or embryofoetal 
development in rats at doses up to 20 mg/kg/day (2 times the human clinical exposure in adult or 
adolescent (12-17 years) ITP patients at 75 mg/day and equivalent to the human clinical exposure in 
HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC). Also there was no effect on embryofoetal development 
in rabbits at doses up to 150 mg/kg/day, the highest dose tested (0.3 to 0.5 times the human clinical 
exposure in ITP patients at 75 mg/day and HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC). However, at 
a maternally toxic dose of 60 mg/kg/day (6 times the human clinical exposure in ITP patients at 
75 mg/day and 3 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC) in 
rats, eltrombopag treatment was associated with embryo lethality (increased pre- and post-
implantation loss), reduced foetal body weight and gravid uterine weight in the female fertility study 
and a low incidence of cervical ribs and reduced foetal body weight in the embryofoetal development 
study. Eltrombopag should be used during pregnancy only if the expected benefit justifies the potential 
risk to the foetus (see section 4.6). Eltrombopag did not affect male fertility in rats at doses up to 
40 mg/kg/day, the highest dose tested (3 times the human clinical exposure in ITP patients at 
75 mg/day and 2 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 100 mg/day, based on AUC). 
In the pre- and post-natal development study in rats, there were no undesirable effects on pregnancy, 
parturition or lactation of F0 female rats at maternally non-toxic doses (10 and 20 mg/kg/day) and no 
effects on the growth, development, neurobehavioural or reproductive function of the offspring (F1). 
Eltrombopag was detected in the plasma of all F1 rat pups for the entire 22 hour sampling period 
following administration of medicinal product to the F0 dams, suggesting that rat pup exposure to 
eltrombopag was likely via lactation. 
Phototoxicity 
In vitro studies with eltrombopag suggest a potential phototoxicity risk; however, in rodents there was 
no evidence of cutaneous phototoxicity (10 or 7 times the human clinical exposure in adult or 
paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 5 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 
100 mg/day, based on AUC) or ocular phototoxicity (4 times the human clinical exposure in adult or 
paediatric ITP patients at 75 mg/day and 3 times the human clinical exposure in HCV patients at 
100 mg/day, based on AUC). Furthermore, a clinical pharmacology study in 36 subjects showed no 
evidence that photosensitivity was increased following administration of eltrombopag 75 mg. This was 
measured by delayed phototoxic index. Nevertheless, a potential risk of photoallergy cannot be ruled 
out since no specific preclinical study could be performed. 
Juvenile animal studies 
At non-tolerated doses in pre-weaning rats, ocular opacities were observed. At tolerated doses, no 
ocular opacities were observed (see above subsection ‘Safety pharmacology and repeat-dose toxicity’). 
In conclusion, taking into account the exposure margins based on AUC, a risk of eltrombopag-related 
cataracts in paediatric patients cannot be excluded. There are no findings in juvenile rats to suggest a 
greater risk of toxicity with eltrombopag treatment in paediatric vs. adult ITP patients. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol (E421) 
Sucralose 
Xanthan gum 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
Following reconstitution, the medicinal product should be administered immediately but may be 
stored for a maximum period of 30 minutes. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Heat-sealed foil laminate sachets. The laminate material is comprised of polyester (PET) / orientated 
polyamide (OPA) / 9 µm aluminium foil (AL) / low density polyethylene heat seal layer (LDPE). The 
product contact material is the polyethylene heat seal layer. The sachets are co-packaged in a kit with a 
40 ml HDPE mixing bottle, and 30 single-use 20 ml oral dosing syringes (polypropylene/silicon 
rubber) with 1 ml graduations. In addition, a screw cap (ethylene vinyl acetate / LDPE) with syringe-
port capability is provided. 
Pack size of 30 sachets. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Instructions for use 
Avoid direct contact with the medicine. Wash any exposed area immediately with soap and water. 
Preparation and administration of the powder for oral suspension: 
• 
Administer the oral suspension immediately after preparation. Discard suspension if not 
administered within 30 minutes after preparation. 
Prepare the suspension with water only. 
Add 20 ml of water and the contents of the prescribed number of sachets (depending on the 
recommended dose) to the provided mixing bottle and mix gently. 
Give the entire contents of the bottle to the patient using one of the accompanying oral syringes. 
IMPORTANT: Because some medicine will remain in the mixing bottle, complete the 
following steps. 
Add 10 ml of water to the mixing bottle and mix gently. 
Give the entire contents of the bottle to the patient using the same oral syringe. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cleaning of the mixing equipment: 
• 
• 
Discard the used oral syringe. 
Rinse the mixing bottle and lid, under running water. (The mixing bottle may become stained 
from the medicine. This is normal.) 
Let all the equipment dry in the air. 
• 
•  Wash your hands with soap and water. 
Do not re-use the oral dosing syringe. A new single-use oral dosing syringe should be used to prepare 
each dose of Revolade for oral suspension. 
For more details on preparation and administration of the suspension, see Instructions for Use in the 
package leaflet. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/013 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 March 2010 
Date of latest renewal: 15 January 2015 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Revolade 12.5 mg, 25 mg, 50 mg and 75 mg film-coated tablets: 
Lek d.d 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
Ljubljana 1526 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
Ljubljana 1000 
Slovenia 
Novartis Farmacéutica SA 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Glaxo Wellcome S.A. 
Avenida de Extremadura 3 
09400 Aranda de Duero 
Burgos 
Spain 
Revolade 25 mg powder for oral suspension: 
Lek d.d 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
Ljubljana 1526 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
Ljubljana 1000 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF 12.5 mg – 14, 28, 84 (3 PACKS of 28) TABLETS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 12.5 mg eltrombopag. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
Multipack containing 84 (3 packs of 28) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/010 (14 film-coated tablets) 
EU/1/10/612/011 (28 film-coated tablets) 
EU/1/10/612/012 84 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 12.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON INTERMEDIATE CARTON 
Multipacks of 84 (3 packs of 28 film-coated tablets) – without blue box – 12.5 mg film-coated 
tablets 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 12.5 mg eltrombopag. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/012 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 12.5 mg 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF 25 mg – 14, 28, 84 (3 PACKS of 28) TABLETS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 25 mg eltrombopag. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
Multipack containing 84 (3 packs of 28) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/001 (14 film-coated tablets) 
EU/1/10/612/002 (28 film-coated tablets) 
EU/1/10/612/003 84 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON INTERMEDIATE CARTON 
Multipacks of 84 (3 packs of 28 film-coated tablets) – without blue box – 25 mg film-coated 
tablets 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 25 mg eltrombopag. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 25 mg 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF 50 mg – 14, 28, 84 (3 PACKS of 28) TABLETS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 50 mg eltrombopag 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
Multipack containing 84 (3 packs of 28) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/004 (14 film-coated tablets) 
EU/1/10/612/005 (28 film-coated tablets) 
EU/1/10/612/006 84 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 50 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON INTERMEDIATE CARTON 
Multipacks of 84 (3 packs of 28 film-coated tablets) – without blue box – 50 mg film-coated 
tablets 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 50 mg eltrombopag 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 50 mg 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF 75 mg – 14, 28, 84 (3 PACKS of 28) TABLETS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 75 mg eltrombopag 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
Multipack containing 84 (3 packs of 28) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/007 (14 film-coated tablets) 
EU/1/10/612/008 (28 film-coated tablets) 
EU/1/10/612/009 84 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 75 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON INTERMEDIATE CARTON 
Multipacks of 84 (3 packs of 28 film-coated tablets) – without blue box –75 mg film-coated 
tablets 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 75 mg eltrombopag 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 75 mg 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Carton of 25 mg powder for oral suspension 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 25 mg powder for oral suspension 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sachet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 25 mg of eltrombopag. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 sachets and 1 mixing bottle + 30 single-use oral syringes 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Use within 30 minutes of reconstitution. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/013 (30 sachets of powder for oral suspension) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 25 mg sachets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Carton of 25 mg powder for oral suspension – without blue box – 30 sachets 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Revolade 25 mg powder for oral suspension 
eltrombopag 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sachet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 25 mg of eltrombopag. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 sachets. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Use within 30 minutes of reconstitution. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/612/013 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
revolade 25 mg sachets 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SACHET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Revolade 25 mg powder for oral suspension 
eltrombopag 
Oral use 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the patient 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets 
eltrombopag 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any of the side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4 
- 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Revolade is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Revolade 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Revolade 
Possible side effects 
How to store Revolade 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Revolade is and what it is used for 
Revolade contains eltrombopag, which belongs to a group of medicines called 
thrombopoietin-receptor agonists. It is used to help increase the number of platelets in your blood. 
Platelets are blood cells that help to reduce or prevent bleeding. 
• 
• 
• 
Revolade is used to treat a bleeding disorder called immune (primary) thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
in patients aged 1 year and above who have already taken other medicines (corticosteroids or 
immunoglobulins), which have not worked. 
ITP is caused by a low blood platelet count (thrombocytopenia). People with ITP have an 
increased risk of bleeding. Symptoms patients with ITP may notice include petechiae (pinpoint-
sized flat round red spots under the skin), bruising, nosebleeds, bleeding gums and not being 
able to control bleeding if they are cut or injured. 
Revolade can also be used to treat low platelet count (thrombocytopenia) in adults with 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections, if they have had problems with side effects while on 
interferon treatment. Many people with hepatitis C have low platelet counts, not only as a result 
of the disease, but also due to some of the antiviral medicines that are used to treat it. Taking 
Revolade may make it easier for you to complete a full course of antiviral medicine 
(peginterferon and ribavirin). 
Revolade may also be used to treat adult patients with low blood counts caused by severe 
aplastic anaemia (SAA). SAA is a disease in which the bone marrow is damaged, causing a 
deficiency of the red blood cells (anaemia), white blood cells (leukopenia) and platelets 
(thrombocytopenia). 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Revolade 
Do not take Revolade 
• 
if you are allergic to eltrombopag or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6 under ‘What Revolade contains’). 
➔  Check with your doctor if you think this applies to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Revolade: 
• 
if you have liver problems. People who have low platelet counts as well as advanced chronic 
(long-term) liver disease are more at risk of side effects, including life-threatening liver damage 
and blood clots. If your doctor considers that the benefits of taking Revolade outweigh the risks, 
you will be closely monitored during treatment. 
if you are at risk of blood clots in your veins or arteries, or you know that blood clots are 
common in your family. 
You may be at higher risk of blood clots: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
➔ 
as you get older 
if you have had to stay in bed for a long time 
if you have cancer 
if you are taking the contraceptive birth control pill or hormone replacement therapy 
if you have recently had surgery or received a physical injury 
if you are very overweight (obese) 
if you are a smoker 
if you have advanced chronic liver disease 
If any of these apply to you, tell your doctor before starting treatment. You should not 
take Revolade unless your doctor considers that the expected benefits outweigh the risk of 
blood clots. 
if you have cataracts (the lens of the eye getting cloudy) 
if you have another blood condition, such as myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Your doctor 
will carry out tests to check that you do not have this blood condition before you start Revolade. 
If you have MDS and take Revolade, your MDS may get worse. 
➔ 
Tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
• 
• 
• 
Eye examinations 
Your doctor will recommend that you are checked for cataracts. If you do not have routine eye-tests 
your doctor should arrange regular testing. You may also be checked for the occurrence of any 
bleeding in or around your retina (the light-sensitive layer of cells at the back of the eye). 
You will need regular tests 
Before you start taking Revolade, your doctor will carry out blood tests to check your blood cells, 
including platelets. These tests will be repeated at intervals while you are taking it. 
Blood tests for liver function 
Revolade can cause blood test results that may be signs of liver damage - an increase of some liver 
enzymes, especially bilirubin and alanine / aspartate transaminases. If you are taking interferon-based 
treatments together with Revolade to treat low platelet count due to hepatitis C, some liver problems 
can get worse. 
You will have blood tests to check your liver function before you start taking Revolade and at 
intervals while you are taking it. You may need to stop taking Revolade if the amount of these 
substances increases too much, or if you get other signs of liver damage. 
➔  Read the information ‘Liver problems’ in section 4 of this leaflet. 
Blood tests for platelet count 
If you stop taking Revolade, your blood platelet count is likely to become low again within several 
days. The platelet count will be monitored, and your doctor will discuss appropriate precautions with 
you. 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A very high blood platelet count may increase the risk of blood clotting. However blood clots can also 
form with normal or even low platelet counts. Your doctor will adjust your dose of Revolade to ensure 
that your platelet count does not become too high. 
 Get medical help immediately if you have any of these signs of a blood clot: 
• 
• 
• 
swelling, pain or tenderness in one leg 
sudden shortness of breath especially together with sharp pain in the chest or rapid breathing 
abdominal (stomach) pain, enlarged abdomen, blood in your stools 
Tests to check your bone marrow 
In people who have problems with their bone marrow, medicines like Revolade could make the 
problems worse. Signs of bone marrow changes may show up as abnormal results in your blood tests. 
Your doctor may also carry out tests to directly check your bone marrow during treatment with 
Revolade. 
Checks for digestive bleeding 
If you are taking interferon-based treatments together with Revolade you will be monitored for any 
signs of bleeding in your stomach or intestine after you stop taking Revolade. 
Heart monitoring 
Your doctor may consider it necessary to monitor your heart during treatment with Revolade and carry 
out an electrocardiogram (ECG) test. 
Older people (65 years and above) 
There are limited data on the use of Revolade in patients aged 65 years and older. Care should be 
taken when using Revolade if you are aged 65 years or above. 
Children and adolescents 
Revolade is not recommended for children aged under 1 year who have ITP. It is also not 
recommended for people under 18 years with low platelet counts due to hepatitis C or severe aplastic 
anaemia. 
Other medicines and Revolade 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without prescription and vitamins. 
Some everyday medicines interact with Revolade – including prescription and non-prescription 
medicines and minerals. These include: 
• 
antacid medicines to treat indigestion, heartburn or stomach ulcers (see also ‘When to take it’ 
in section 3) 
medicines called statins, to lower cholesterol 
some medicines to treat HIV infection, such as lopinavir and/or ritonavir 
ciclosporin used in the context of transplantations or immune diseases 
minerals such as iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, selenium and zinc which may be found 
in vitamin and mineral supplements (see also ‘When to take it’ in section 3) 
medicines such as methotrexate and topotecan, to treat cancer 
• 
➔  Talk to your doctor if you take any of these. Some of them are not to be taken with Revolade, 
• 
• 
• 
• 
or the dose may need adjusting, or you may need to alter the timing of when you take them. 
Your doctor will review the medicines you are taking, and suggest suitable replacements if 
necessary. 
If you are also taking medicines to prevent blood clots there is a greater risk of bleeding. Your doctor 
will discuss this with you. 
If you are taking corticosteroids, danazol, and/or azathioprine you may need to take a lower dose or 
to stop taking them while you are taking Revolade. 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revolade with food and drink 
Do not take Revolade with dairy foods or drinks as the calcium in dairy products affects the absorption 
of the medicine. For more information, see ‘When to take it’ in section 3. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Don’t use Revolade if you are pregnant unless your doctor specifically recommends it. The effect of 
Revolade during pregnancy is not known. 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a 
baby. 
Use a reliable method of contraception while you’re taking Revolade, to prevent pregnancy 
If you do become pregnant during treatment with Revolade, tell your doctor. 
• 
• 
Don’t breast-feed while you are taking Revolade. It is not known whether Revolade passes into 
breast-milk. 
➔ 
If you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed, tell your doctor. 
Driving and using machines 
Revolade can make you dizzy and have other side effects that make you less alert. 
➔  Don’t drive or use machines unless you are sure you’re not affected. 
Revolade contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Revolade 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. Do not change the dose or schedule for taking Revolade unless your doctor or 
pharmacist advises you to. While you are taking Revolade, you will be under the care of a doctor with 
specialist experience in treating your condition. 
How much to take 
For ITP 
Adults and children (6 to 17 years) – the usual starting dose for ITP is one 50 mg tablet of Revolade 
a day. If you are of East-/Southeast-Asian origin you may need to start at a lower dose of 25 mg. 
Children (1 to 5 years) — the usual starting dose for ITP is one 25 mg tablet of Revolade a day. 
For hepatitis C 
Adults - the usual starting dose for hepatitis C is one 25 mg tablet of Revolade a day. If you are of 
East-/Southeast-Asian origin you will start on the same 25 mg dose. 
For SAA 
Adults - the usual starting dose for SAA is one 50 mg tablet of Revolade a day. If you are of East-
/Southeast-Asian origin you may need to start at a lower dose of 25 mg. 
Revolade may take 1 to 2 weeks to work. Based on your response to Revolade your doctor may 
recommend that your daily dose is changed. 
How to take the tablets 
Swallow the tablet whole, with some water. 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When to take it 
Make sure that – 
• 
• 
in the 4 hours before you take Revolade 
and the 2 hours after you take Revolade 
you don’t consume any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
dairy foods such as cheese, butter, yoghurt or ice cream 
milk or milk shakes, drinks containing milk, yoghurt or cream 
antacids, a type of medicine for indigestion and heartburn 
some mineral and vitamin supplements including iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, 
selenium and zinc 
If you do, the medicine will not be properly absorbed into your body. 
Take Revolade 
    ...  and for 
2 hours after 
For 4 hours 
before you  
take 
Revolade... 
NO dairy products, antacids 
or mineral supplements 
For more advice about suitable foods and drinks, talk to your doctor. 
If you take more Revolade than you should 
Contact a doctor or pharmacist immediately. If possible show them the pack, or this leaflet. 
You will be monitored for any signs or symptoms of side effects and given appropriate treatment 
immediately. 
If you forget to take Revolade 
Take the next dose at the usual time. Do not take more than one dose of Revolade in one day. 
If you stop taking Revolade 
Don’t stop taking Revolade without talking to your doctor. If your doctor advises you to stop 
treatment, your platelet count will then be checked each week for four weeks. See also ‘Bleeding or 
bruising after you stop treatment’ in section 4. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Symptoms needing attention: see a doctor 
People taking Revolade for either ITP or low blood platelet counts due to hepatitis C could develop 
signs of potentially serious side effects. It is important to tell a doctor if you develop these 
symptoms. 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Higher risk of blood clots 
Certain people may have a higher risk of blood clots, and medicines like Revolade could make this 
problem worse. The sudden blocking of a blood vessel by a blood clot is an uncommon side effect and 
may affect up to 1 in 100 people. 
Get medical help immediately if you develop signs and symptoms of a blood clot, such as: 
swelling, pain, heat, redness, or tenderness in one leg 
sudden shortness of breath, especially together with sharp pain in the chest or rapid breathing 
abdominal (stomach) pain, enlarged abdomen, blood in your stools. 
• 
• 
• 
Liver problems 
Revolade can cause changes that show up in blood tests, and may be signs of liver damage. Liver 
problems (increased enzymes showing up in blood tests) are common and may affect up to 1 in 
10 people. Other liver problems are uncommon and may affect up to 1 in 100 people. 
If you have either of these signs of liver problems: 
• 
• 
➔ 
yellowing of the skin or the whites of the eyes (jaundice) 
unusually dark-coloured urine 
tell your doctor immediately. 
Bleeding or bruising after you stop treatment 
Within two weeks of stopping Revolade, your blood platelet count will usually drop back down to 
what it was before starting Revolade. The lower platelet count may increase the risk of bleeding or 
bruising. Your doctor will check your platelet count for at least 4 weeks after you stop taking 
Revolade. 
➔  Tell your doctor if you have any bleeding or bruising after stopping Revolade. 
Some people have bleeding in the digestive system after they stop taking peginterferon, ribavirin, and 
Revolade. Symptoms include: 
• 
black tarry stools (discoloured bowel movements are a uncommon side effect that may affect up 
to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
blood in your stools 
• 
vomiting blood or something that looks like coffee grounds 
➔  Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms. 
The following side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with Revolade in 
adult patients with ITP: 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
common cold 
feeling sick (nausea) 
diarrhoea 
cough 
infection in the nose, sinuses, throat and upper airways (upper respiratory tract infection) 
back pain 
Very common side effects that may show up in blood tests: 
• 
increased of liver enzymes (alanine aminotransferase (ALT)) 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
muscle pain, muscle spasm, muscle weakness 
bone pain 
heavy menstrual period 
sore throat and discomfort when swallowing  
eye problems including abnormal eye test, dry eye, eye pain and blurred vision 
vomiting 
flu (influenza) 
cold sore 
pneumonia 
irritation and inflammation (swelling) of the sinuses 
inflammation (swelling) and infection of the tonsils, 
 infection of the lungs, sinuses, nose and throat 
inflammation of the gum tissue 
loss of appetite 
feeling of tingling, prickling or numbness, commonly called “pins and needles” 
decreased skin sensations 
feeling drowsy 
ear pain 
pain, swelling and tenderness in one of your legs (usually the calf) with warm skin in the 
affected area (signs of a blood clot in a deep vein) 
localised swelling filled with blood from a break in a blood vessel (haematoma) 
hot flushes 
mouth problems including dry mouth, sore mouth, sensitive tongue, bleeding gums, mouth 
ulcers 
runny nose 
toothache 
abdominal pain 
abnormal liver function 
skin changes including excessive sweating, itching bumpy rash, red spots, changes in 
appearance of the skin 
hair loss 
foamy, frothy or bubbly-looking urine (signs of protein in urine) 
high temperature, feeling hot 
chest pain 
feeling weak 
problems sleeping, depression 
migraine 
decreased vision 
spinning sensation (vertigo) 
digestive wind/gas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
115 
 
 
 
Common side effects that may show up in blood test: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) 
decreased number of platelets (thrombocytopenia) 
decreased number of white blood cells 
decreased haemoglobin level 
increased number of eosinophils 
increased number of white blood cells (leukocytosis) 
increased levels of uric acid 
decreased levels of potassium 
increased levels of creatinine 
increased levels of alkaline phosphatase 
increase of liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase (AST)) 
increase in blood bilirubin (a substance produced by the liver) 
increased levels of some proteins 
Uncommon side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people: 
• 
• 
• 
allergic reaction 
interruption of blood supply to part of the heart 
sudden shortness of breath, especially when accompanied with sharp pain in the chest and /or 
rapid breathing, which could be signs of a blood clot in the lungs (see ‘Higher risk of blood 
clots’ earlier in section 4) 
the loss of function of part of the lung caused by a blockage in the lung artery 
possible pain, swelling, and/or redness around a vein which could be signs of blood clot in a 
vein 
yellowing of the skin and/or abdominal pain which could be signs of a blockage in the bile tract, 
lesion on liver, liver damage due to inflammation (see ‘Liver problems’ earlier in section 4) 
liver injury due to medication 
heart beating faster, irregular heartbeat, bluish discolouration of the skin, disturbances of heart 
rhythm (QT prolongation) which could be signs of a disorder related to the heart and the blood 
vessels 
blood clot 
flushing 
painful swollen joints caused by uric acid (gout) 
lack of interest, mood changes, crying that is difficult to stop, or occurs at unexpected times 
problems with balance, speech and nerve function, shaking 
painful or abnormal skin sensations 
paralysis on one side of the body 
migraine with aura 
nerve damage 
dilation or swelling of blood vessels that cause headache 
eye problems including increased production of tears, cloudy lens in the eye (cataract), bleeding 
of the retina, dry eyes 
problems with the nose, throat and sinuses, breathing problems when sleeping 
mouth and throat blisters/sores 
loss of appetite 
digestive system problems including frequent bowel movements, food poisoning, blood in stool, 
vomiting of blood 
rectal bleeding, change in stool colour, abdominal bloating, constipation 
mouth problems, including dry or sore mouth, tongue pain, bleeding gums, discomfort in mouth 
sunburn 
feeling hot, feeling anxious 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
116 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
redness or swelling around a wound 
bleeding around a catheter (if present) into the skin 
sensation of a foreign body 
kidney problems including inflammation of the kidney, excessive urination at night, kidney 
failure, white cells in urine 
cold sweat 
generally feeling unwell 
infection of the skin 
skin changes including skin discolouration, peeling, redness, itching and sweating 
muscular weakness 
cancer of rectum and colon 
Uncommon side effects that may show up in laboratory tests: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
changes in the shape of red blood cells 
presence of developing white blood cells which may be indicative of certain diseases 
increased number of platelets 
decreased levels of calcium 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) caused by excessive destruction of red blood 
cells (haemolytic anaemia) 
increased number of myelocytes 
increased band neutrophils 
increased blood urea 
increased levels of protein in urine 
increased levels of blood albumin 
increased levels of total protein 
decreased levels of blood albumin 
increased pH of urine 
increased level of haemoglobin 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The following additional side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with 
Revolade in children (aged 1 to 17 years) with ITP: 
If these side effects become severe, please tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 children: 
• 
infection in the nose, sinuses, throat and upper airways, common cold (upper respiratory tract 
infection) 
diarrhoea 
abdominal pain 
cough 
high temperature 
feeling sick (nausea) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 children: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
difficulty in sleeping (insomnia) 
toothache 
pain in the nose and throat 
itchy, runny or blocked nose 
sore throat, runny nose, nasal congestion and sneezing 
mouth problems including dry mouth, sore mouth, sensitive tongue, bleeding gums, mouth 
ulcers 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
The following side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with Revolade in 
combination with peginterferon and ribavirin in patients with HCV: 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
headache 
loss of appetite 
cough 
feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea 
muscle pain, muscle weakness 
itching 
feeling tired 
fever 
unusual hair loss 
feeling weak 
flu-like illness 
swelling in the hands or feet 
chills 
Very common side effects that may show up in blood tests: 
• 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
infection of the urinary system 
inflammation of the nasal passages, throat and mouth, flu-like symptoms, dry mouth, sore or 
inflamed mouth, toothache 
weight loss 
sleep disorders, abnormal drowsiness, depression, anxiety 
dizziness, problems with attention and memory, change in mood 
decreased brain function further to liver injury 
tingling or numbness of the hands or feet 
fever, headache 
eye problems, including cloudy lens in the eye (cataract), dry eye, small yellow deposits in the 
retina, yellowing of the whites of the eye 
bleeding of the retina 
spinning sensation (vertigo) 
fast or irregular heartbeat (palpitations), shortness of breath 
cough bringing up phlegm, runny nose, flu (influenza), cold sore, sore throat and discomfort 
when swallowing 
digestive system problems, including vomiting, stomach pain, indigestion, constipation, swollen 
stomach, taste disturbances, piles (haemorrhoids), stomach pain/discomfort, swollen blood 
vessels and bleeding in the gullet (oesophagus) 
toothache 
liver problems, including tumour in the liver, yellowing of the whites of the eyes or skin 
(jaundice), liver injury due to medication (see ‘Liver problems’ earlier in section 4) 
skin changes, including rash, dry skin, eczema, redness of the skin, itching, excessive sweating, 
unusual skin growths, hair loss 
joint pain, back pain, bone pain, pain in extremities (arms, legs, hands or feet), muscle spasms 
irritability, generally feeling unwell, skin reaction such as redness or swelling and pain at the 
site of injection, chest pain and discomfort, build-up of fluid in the body or extremities causing 
swelling 
infection in the nose, sinuses, throat and upper airways, common cold (upper respiratory tract 
infection), inflammation of mucous membrane lining the bronchi 
depression, anxiety, sleep problems, nervousness 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
118 
 
 
 
Common side effects that may show up in blood tests: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increased blood sugar (glucose) 
decreased number of white blood cells 
decreased number of neutrophils 
decreased level of blood albumin 
decreased level of haemoglobin 
increased levels of blood bilirubin (a substance produced by the liver) 
changes in the enzymes that control blood clotting 
Uncommon side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
painful urination 
disturbances of heart rhythm (QT prolongation) 
stomach flu (gastroenteritis), sore throat 
mouth blisters/sores, inflammation of the stomach 
skin changes including change in colour, peeling, redness, itching, lesion and night sweats 
blood clots in a vein to the liver (possible liver and/or digestive system damage) 
abnormal blood clotting in small blood vessels with kidney failure 
rash, bruising at the injection site, chest discomfort 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) caused by excessive destruction of red blood 
cells (haemolytic anaemia) 
confusion, agitation 
liver failure 
• 
• 
The following side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with Revolade in 
patients with severe aplastic anaemia (SAA): 
If these side effects become severe, please tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
cough 
headache 
mouth and throat pain 
diarrhoea 
feeling sick (nausea) 
joint pain (arthralgia) 
pain in extremities (arms, legs, hands and feet) 
dizziness 
feeling very tired 
fever 
chills 
itchy eyes 
blisters in the mouth 
bleeding of the gums 
abdominal pain 
muscle spasms 
Very common side effects that may show up in the blood tests 
• 
abnormal changes to the cells in your bone marrow 
• 
increased levels of liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase (AST)) 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
anxiety 
depression 
feeling cold 
generally feeling unwell 
eye problems including vision problems, blurred vision, cloudy lens in the eye (cataract), spots 
or deposits in eye (vitreous floaters), dry eye, itchy eye, yellowing of the whites of the eyes or 
skin 
nose bleed 
digestive system problems including difficulty swallowing, mouth pain, swollen tongue, 
vomiting, loss of appetite, stomach pain/discomfort, swollen stomach, digestive wind/gas, 
constipation, intestinal motility disorder which can cause contipation, bloating, diarrhea and/or 
above mentioned symptoms, change in stool colour 
fainting 
skin problems including small red or purple spots caused by bleeding into the skin (petechiae) 
rash, itching, hives, skin lesion 
back pain 
muscle pain 
bone pain 
weakness (asthenia) 
swelling of the lower limbs due to the accumulation of fluids 
abnormal colored urine 
interruption in blood supply to spleen (splenic infarction) 
runny nose 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common side effects that may show up in the blood tests 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increase in enzymes due to muscle breakdown (creatine phosphokinase) 
accumulation of iron in the body (iron overload) 
decrease in blood sugar levels (hypoglycaemia) 
increased levels of blood bilirubin (a substance produced by the liver) 
decreased levels of white blood cells 
Side effects with frequency not known 
Frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
• 
• 
• 
skin discolouration 
darkening of the skin 
liver injury due to medication 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Revolade 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the blister. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Revolade contains 
The active substance in Revolade is eltrombopag. 
12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 12.5 mg eltrombopag. 
25 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 25 mg eltrombopag. 
50 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 50 mg eltrombopag. 
75 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains eltrombopag olamine equivalent to 75 mg eltrombopag. 
The other ingredients are: hypromellose, macrogol 400, magnesium stearate, mannitol (E421), 
microcrystalline cellulose, povidone, sodium starch glycolate, titanium dioxide (E171). 
Revolade 12.5 mg and 25 mg film-coated tablets also contain polysorbate 80 (E433). 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets also contain iron oxide red (E172) and iron oxide yellow (E172). 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets also contain iron oxide red (E172) and iron oxide black (E172). 
What Revolade looks like and contents of the pack 
Revolade 12.5 mg film-coated tablets are round, biconvex, white, debossed with ‘GS MZ1’ and ‘12.5’ 
on one side. 
Revolade 25 mg film-coated tablets are round, biconvex, white, debossed with ‘GS NX3’ and ‘25’ on 
one side. 
Revolade 50 mg film-coated tablets are round, biconvex, brown, debossed with ‘GS UFU’ and ‘50’ on 
one side. 
Revolade 75 mg film-coated tablets are round, biconvex, pink, debossed with ‘GS FFS’ and ‘75’ on 
one side. 
They are supplied in aluminum blisters in a carton containing 14 or 28 film-coated tablets and 
multipacks containg 84 (3 packs of 28) film-coated tablets). 
Not all pack sizes may be available in your country. 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing authorisation holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Lek d.d 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
Ljubljana 1526 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
Ljubljana 1000 
Slovenia 
Novartis Farmacéutica SA 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Glaxo Wellcome S.A. 
Avenida de Extremadura 3 
09400 Aranda de Duero 
Burgos 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 555 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the patient 
Revolade 25 mg powder for oral suspension 
eltrombopag 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any of the side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4 
- 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Revolade is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Revolade 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Revolade 
Possible side effects 
How to store Revolade 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Revolade is and what it is used for 
Revolade contains eltrombopag, which belongs to a group of medicines called 
thrombopoietin-receptor agonists. It is used to help increase the number of platelets in your blood. 
Platelets are blood cells that help to reduce or prevent bleeding. 
• 
• 
• 
Revolade is used to treat a bleeding disorder called immune (primary) thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
in patients aged 1 year and above who have already taken other medicines (corticosteroids or 
immunoglobulins), which have not worked. 
ITP is caused by a low blood platelet count (thrombocytopenia). People with ITP have an 
increased risk of bleeding. Symptoms patients with ITP may notice include petechiae (pinpoint-
sized flat round red spots under the skin), bruising, nosebleeds, bleeding gums and not being 
able to control bleeding if they are cut or injured. 
Revolade can also be used to treat low platelet count (thrombocytopenia) in adults with 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections, if they have had problems with side effects while on 
interferon treatment. Many people with hepatitis C have low platelet counts, not only as a result 
of the disease, but also due to some of the antiviral medicines that are used to treat it. Taking 
Revolade may make it easier for you to complete a full course of antiviral medicine 
(peginterferon and ribavirin). 
Revolade may also be used to treat adult patients with low blood counts caused by severe 
aplastic anaemia (SAA). SAA is a disease in which the bone marrow is damaged, causing a 
deficiency of the red blood cells (anaemia), white blood cells (leukopenia) and platelets 
(thrombocytopenia). 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Revolade 
Do not take Revolade 
• 
if you are allergic to eltrombopag or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6 under ‘What Revolade contains’). 
➔  Check with your doctor if you think this applies to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Revolade: 
• 
if you have liver problems. People who have low platelet counts as well as advanced chronic 
(long-term) liver disease are more at risk of side effects, including life-threatening liver damage 
and blood clots. If your doctor considers that the benefits of taking Revolade outweigh the risks, 
you will be closely monitored during treatment. 
if you are at risk of blood clots in your veins or arteries, or you know that blood clots are 
common in your family. 
You may be at higher risk of blood clots: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
➔ 
as you get older 
if you have had to stay in bed for a long time 
if you have cancer 
if you are taking the contraceptive birth control pill or hormone replacement therapy 
if you have recently had surgery or received a physical injury 
if you are very overweight (obese) 
if you are a smoker 
if you have advanced chronic liver disease 
If any of these apply to you tell your doctor before starting treatment. You should not 
take Revolade unless your doctor considers that the expected benefits outweigh the risk of 
blood clots. 
if you have cataracts (the lens of the eye getting cloudy) 
if you have another blood condition, such as myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Your doctor 
will carry out tests to check that you do not have this blood condition before you start Revolade. 
If you have MDS and take Revolade, your MDS may get worse. 
➔ 
Tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
• 
• 
• 
Eye examinations 
Your doctor will recommend that you are checked for cataracts. If you do not have routine eye-tests, 
your doctor should arrange regular testing. You may also be checked for the occurrence of any 
bleeding in or around your retina (the light-sensitive layer of cells at the back of the eye). 
You will need regular tests 
Before you start taking Revolade, your doctor will carry out blood tests to check your blood cells, 
including platelets. These tests will be repeated at intervals while you are taking it. 
Blood tests for liver function 
Revolade can cause blood test results that may be signs of liver damage - an increase of some liver 
enzymes, especially bilirubin and alanine / aspartate transaminases. If you are taking interferon-based 
treatments together with Revolade to treat low platelet count due to hepatitis C, some liver problems 
can get worse. 
You will have blood tests to check your liver function before you start taking Revolade and at 
intervals while you are taking it. You may need to stop taking Revolade if the amount of these 
substances increases too much, or if you get other signs of liver damage. 
➔ 
Read the information ‘Liver problems’ in section 4 of this leaflet. 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood tests for platelet count 
If you stop taking Revolade, your blood platelet count is likely to become low again within several 
days. The platelet count will be monitored, and your doctor will discuss appropriate precautions with 
you. 
A very high blood platelet count may increase the risk of blood clotting. However blood clots can also 
form with normal or even low platelet counts. Your doctor will adjust your dose of Revolade to ensure 
that your platelet count does not become too high. 
 Get medical help immediately if you have any of these signs of a blood clot: 
• 
• 
• 
swelling, pain or tenderness in one leg 
sudden shortness of breath especially together with sharp pain in the chest or rapid breathing 
abdominal (stomach) pain, enlarged abdomen, blood in your stools 
Tests to check your bone marrow 
In people who have problems with their bone marrow, medicines like Revolade could make the 
problems worse. Signs of bone marrow changes may show up as abnormal results in your blood tests. 
Your doctor may also carry out tests to directly check your bone marrow during treatment with 
Revolade. 
Checks for digestive bleeding 
If you are taking interferon-based treatments together with Revolade you will be monitored for any 
signs of bleeding in your stomach or intestine after you stop taking Revolade. 
Heart monitoring 
Your doctor may consider it necessary to monitor your heart during treatment with Revolade and carry 
out an electrocardiogram (ECG) test. 
Older people (65 years and above) 
There are limited data on the use of Revolade in patients aged 65 years and older. Care should be 
taken when using Revolade if you are aged 65 years or above. 
Children and adolescents 
Revolade is not recommended for children aged under 1 year who have ITP. It is also not 
recommended for people under 18 years with low platelet counts due to hepatitis C or severe aplastic 
anaemia. 
Other medicines and Revolade 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without prescription and vitamins. 
Some everyday medicines interact with Revolade – including prescription and non-prescription 
medicines and minerals. These include: 
• 
antacid medicines to treat indigestion, heartburn or stomach ulcers (see also ‘When to take it’ 
in section 3) 
medicines called statins, to lower cholesterol 
some medicines to treat HIV infection, such as lopinavir and/or ritonavir 
ciclosporin used in the context of transplantations or immune diseases 
minerals such as iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, selenium and zinc which may be found 
in vitamin and mineral supplements (see also ‘When to take it’ in section 3) 
medicines such as methotrexate and topotecan, to treat cancer 
• 
➔  Talk to your doctor if you take any of these. Some of them are not to be taken with Revolade, 
• 
• 
• 
• 
or the dose may need adjusting, or you may need to alter the timing of when you take them. 
Your doctor will review the medicines you are taking, and suggest suitable replacements if 
necessary. 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are also taking medicines to prevent blood clots, there is a greater risk of bleeding. Your doctor 
will discuss this with you. 
If you are taking corticosteroids, danazol, and/or azathioprine you may need to take a lower dose or 
to stop taking them while you are taking Revolade. 
Revolade with food and drink 
Do not take Revolade with dairy foods or drinks as the calcium in dairy products affects the absorption 
of the medicine. For more information, see ‘When to take it’ in section 3. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Don’t use Revolade if you are pregnant unless your doctor specifically recommends it. The effect of 
Revolade during pregnancy is not known. 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a 
baby. 
Use a reliable method of contraception while you’re taking Revolade, to prevent pregnancy 
If you do become pregnant during treatment with Revolade, tell your doctor. 
• 
• 
Don’t breast-feed while you are taking Revolade. It is not known whether Revolade passes into 
breast-milk. 
➔ 
If you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed, tell your doctor. 
Driving and using machines 
Revolade can make you dizzy and have other side effects that make you less alert. 
➔  Don’t drive or use machines unless you are sure you’re not affected. 
3. 
How to take Revolade 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. Do not change the dose or schedule for taking Revolade unless your doctor or 
pharmacist advises you to. While you are taking Revolade, you will be under the care of a doctor with 
specialist experience in treating your condition. 
How much to take 
For ITP 
Adults and children (6 to 17 years) - the usual starting dose for ITP is two 25 mg sachets of 
Revolade a day. If you are of East-/Southeast-Asian origin you may need to start at a lower dose of 
25 mg. 
Children (1 to 5 years) — the usual starting dose for ITP is one 25 mg sachet of Revolade a day. 
For hepatitis C 
Adults - the usual starting dose for hepatitis C is one 25 mg sachet of Revolade a day. If you are of 
East-/Southeast-Asian origin you will start on the same 25 mg dose. 
For SAA 
Adults - the usual starting dose for SAA is two 25 mg sachets of Revolade a day. If you are of East-
/Southeast-Asian origin you may need to start at a lower dose of 25 mg. 
Revolade may take 1 to 2 weeks to work. Based on your response to Revolade your doctor may 
recommend that your daily dose is changed. 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to give a dose of medicine 
The powder for oral suspension is in sachets, the contents of which will need to mixed before you can 
take the medicine. After section 6 of this leaflet there are Instructions For Use on how to mix and 
administer the medicine. If you have questions or do not understand the Instructions For Use, talk to 
your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
IMPORTANT — Use the medicine immediately after you have mixed the powder with water. If 
you do not use it within 30 minutes of mixing it, you will need to mix a new dose. Do not re-use the 
oral dosing syringe. A new single-use oral dosing syringe should be used to prepare each dose of 
Revolade for oral suspension. 
When to take it 
Make sure – 
• 
• 
in the 4 hours before you take Revolade 
and the 2 hours after you take Revolade 
you don’t consume any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
dairy foods such as cheese, butter, yoghurt or ice cream 
milk or milk shakes, drinks containing milk, yoghurt or cream 
antacids, a type of medicine for indigestion and heartburn 
some mineral and vitamin supplements including iron, calcium, magnesium, aluminium, 
selenium and zinc 
If you do, the medicine will not be properly absorbed into your body. 
Take Revolade 
For 4 hours 
before you  
take 
Revolade... 
    ...  and for 
2 hours after 
NO dairy products, antacids 
or mineral supplements 
For more advice about suitable foods and drinks, talk to your doctor. 
If you take more Revolade than you should 
Contact a doctor or pharmacist immediately. If possible show them the pack, or this leaflet. 
You will be monitored for any signs or symptoms of side effects and given appropriate treatment 
immediately. 
If you forget to take Revolade 
Take your next dose at the usual time. Do not take more than one dose of Revolade in one day. 
If you stop taking Revolade 
Don’t stop taking Revolade without talking to your doctor. If your doctor advises you to stop 
treatment, your platelet count will then be checked each week for four weeks. See also ‘Bleeding or 
bruising after you stop treatment’ in section 4. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Symptoms needing attention: see a doctor 
People taking Revolade for either ITP or low blood platelet counts due to hepatitis C could develop 
signs of potentially serious side effects. It is important to tell a doctor if you develop these 
symptoms. 
Higher risk of blood clots 
Certain people may have a higher risk of blood clots, and medicines like Revolade could make this 
problem worse. The sudden blocking of a blood vessel by a blood clot is an uncommon side effect and 
may affect up to 1 in 100 people. 
 Get medical help immediately if you develop signs and symptoms of a blood clot, such as: 
• 
• 
• 
swelling, pain, heat, redness or tenderness in one leg 
sudden shortness of breath, especially together with sharp pain in the chest or rapid breathing 
abdominal (stomach) pain, enlarged abdomen, blood in your stools. 
Liver problems 
Revolade can cause changes that show up in blood tests, and may be signs of liver damage. Liver 
problems (increased enzymes showing up in blood tests) are common and may affect up to 1 in 
10 people. Other liver problems are uncommon and may affect up to 1 in 100 people. 
If you have either of these signs of liver problems: 
• 
• 
➔ 
yellowing of the skin or the whites of the eyes (jaundice) 
unusually dark-coloured urine 
tell your doctor immediately. 
Bleeding or bruising after you stop treatment 
Within two weeks of stopping Revolade, your blood platelet count will usually drop back down to 
what it was before starting Revolade. The lower platelet count may increase the risk of bleeding or 
bruising. Your doctor will check your platelet count for at least 4 weeks after you stop taking 
Revolade. 
➔  Tell your doctor if you have any bleeding or bruising after stopping Revolade. 
Some people have bleeding in the digestive system after they stop taking peginterferon, ribavirin, and 
Revolade. Symptoms include: 
- 
black tarry stools (discoloured bowel movements are a uncommon side effect that may affect up 
to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
blood in your stools 
- 
vomiting blood or something that looks like coffee grounds 
➔  Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms. 
The following side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with Revolade in 
adult patients with ITP: 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
common cold 
feeling sick (nausea) 
diarrhoea 
cough 
infection in the nose, sinuses, throat and upper airways (upper respiratory tract infection) 
back pain 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common side effects that may show up in blood tests: 
• 
increased of liver enzymes (alanine aminotransferase (ALT)) 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
muscle pain, muscle spasm, muscle weakness 
bone pain 
heavy menstrual period 
sore throat and discomfort when swallowing  
eye problems including abnormal eye test, dry eye, eye pain and blurred vision 
vomiting 
flu (influenza) 
cold sore 
pneumonia 
irritation and inflammation (swelling) of the sinuses 
inflammation (swelling) and infection of the tonsils 
infection of the lungs, sinuses, nose and throat 
inflammation of the gum tissue 
loss of appetite 
feeling of tingling, prickling or numbness, commonly called “pins and needles” 
decreased skin sensations 
feeling drowsy 
ear pain 
pain, swelling and tenderness in one of your legs (usually the calf) with warm skin in the 
affected area (signs of a blood clot in a deep vein) 
localised swelling filled with blood from a break in a blood vessel (haematoma) 
hot flushes 
mouth problems including dry mouth, sore mouth, sensitive tongue, bleeding gums, mouth 
ulcers 
runny nose 
toothache 
abdominal pain 
abnormal liver function 
skin changes including excessive sweating, itching bumpy rash, red spots, changes in 
appearance of the skin 
hair loss 
foamy, frothy or bubbly-looking urine (signs of protein in urine) 
high temperature, feeling hot 
chest pain 
feeling weak 
problems sleeping, depression 
migraine 
decreased vision 
spinning sensation (vertigo) 
digestive wind/gas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
130 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects that may show up in blood test: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) 
decreased number of platelets (thrombocytopenia) 
decreased number of white blood cells 
decreased haemoglobin level 
increased number of eosinophils 
increased number of white blood cells (leukocytosis) 
increased levels of uric acid 
decreased levels of potassium 
increased levels of creatinine 
increased levels of alkaline phosphatase 
increase of liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase (AST)) 
increase in blood bilirubin (a substance produced by the liver) 
increased levels of some proteins 
Uncommon side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people: 
• 
• 
• 
allergic reaction 
interruption of blood supply to part of the heart 
sudden shortness of breath, especially when accompanied with sharp pain in the chest and /or 
rapid breathing, which could be signs of a blood clot in the lungs (see ‘Higher risk of blood 
clots’ earlier in section 4) 
the loss of function of part of the lung caused by a blockage in the lung artery 
possible pain, swelling, and/or redness around a vein which could be signs of blood clot in a 
vein 
yellowing of the skin and/or abdominal pain which could be signs of a blockage in the bile tract, 
lesion on liver, liver damage due to inflammation (see ‘Liver problems’ earlier in section 4) 
liver injury due to medication 
heart beating faster, irregular heartbeat, bluish discolouration of the skin, disturbances of heart 
rhythm (QT prolongation) which could be signs of a disorder related to the heart and the blood 
vessels 
blood clot 
flushing 
painful swollen joints caused by uric acid (gout) 
lack of interest, mood changes, crying that is difficult to stop, or occurs at unexpected times 
problems with balance, speech and nerve function, shaking 
painful or abnormal skin sensations 
paralysis on one side of the body 
migraine with aura 
nerve damage 
dilation or swelling of blood vessels that cause headache 
eye problems including increased production of tears, cloudy lens in the eye (cataract), bleeding 
of the retina, dry eyes 
problems with the nose, throat and sinuses, breathing problems when sleeping 
mouth and throat blisters/sores 
loss of appetite 
digestive system problems including frequent bowel movements, food poisoning, blood in stool, 
vomiting of blood 
rectal bleeding, change in stool colour, abdominal bloating, constipation 
mouth problems, including dry or sore mouth, tongue pain, bleeding gums, discomfort in mouth 
sunburn 
feeling hot, feeling anxious 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
131 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
redness or swelling around a wound 
bleeding around a catheter (if present) into the skin 
sensation of a foreign body 
kidney problems including inflammation of the kidney, excessive urination at night, kidney 
failure, white cells in urine 
cold sweat 
generally feeling unwell 
infection of the skin 
skin changes including skin discolouration, peeling, redness, itching and sweating 
muscular weakness 
cancer of rectum and colon 
Uncommon side effects that may show up in laboratory tests: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
changes in the shape of red blood cells 
presence of developing white blood cells which may be indicative of certain diseases 
increased number of platelets 
decreased levels of calcium 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) caused by excessive destruction of red blood 
cells (haemolytic anaemia) 
increased number of myelocytes 
increased band neutrophils 
increased blood urea 
increased levels of protein in urine 
increased levels of blood albumin 
increased levels of total protein 
decreased levels of blood albumin 
increased pH of urine 
increased level of haemoglobin 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The following additional side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with 
Revolade in children (aged 1 to 17 years) with ITP: 
If these side effects become severe, please tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 children: 
• 
infection in the nose, sinuses, throat and upper airways, common cold (upper respiratory tract 
infection) 
diarrhoea 
abdominal pain 
cough 
high temperature 
feeling sick (nausea) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 children: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
difficulty in sleeping (insomnia) 
toothache 
pain in the nose and throat 
itchy, runny or blocked nose 
sore throat, runny nose, nasal congestion and sneezing 
mouth problems including dry mouth, sore mouth, sensitive tongue, bleeding gums, mouth 
ulcers 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
The following side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with Revolade in 
combination with peginterferon and ribavirin in patients with HCV: 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
headache 
loss of appetite 
cough 
feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea 
muscle pain, muscle weakness 
itching 
feeling tired 
fever 
unusual hair loss 
feeling weak 
flu-like illness 
swelling in the hands or feet 
chills 
Very common side effects that may show up in blood tests: 
• 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
infection of the urinary system 
inflammation of the nasal passages, throat and mouth, flu-like symptoms, dry mouth, sore or 
inflamed mouth, toothache 
weight loss 
sleep disorders, abnormal drowsiness, depression, anxiety 
dizziness, problems with attention and memory, change in mood 
decreased brain function further to liver injury 
tingling or numbness of the hands or feet 
fever, headache 
eye problems, including cloudy lens in the eye (cataract), dry eye, small yellow deposits in the 
retina, yellowing of the whites of the eye 
bleeding of the retina 
spinning sensation (vertigo) 
fast or irregular heartbeat (palpitations), shortness of breath 
cough bringing up phlegm, runny nose, flu (influenza), cold sore, sore throat and discomfort 
when swallowing 
digestive system problems, including vomiting, stomach pain, indigestion, constipation, swollen 
stomach, taste disturbances, piles (haemorrhoids), stomach pain/discomfort, swollen blood 
vessels and bleeding in the gullet (oesophagus) 
toothache 
liver problems, including tumour in the liver, yellowing of the whites of the eyes or skin 
(jaundice), liver injury due to medication (see ‘Liver problems’ earlier in section 4) 
skin changes, including rash, dry skin, eczema, redness of the skin, itching, excessive sweating, 
unusual skin growths, hair loss 
joint pain, back pain, bone pain, pain in extremities (arms, legs, hands or feet), muscle spasms 
irritability, generally feeling unwell, skin reaction such as redness or swelling and pain at the 
site of injection, chest pain and discomfort, build-up of fluid in the body or extremities causing 
swelling 
infection in the nose, sinuses, throat and upper airways, common cold (upper respiratory tract 
infection), inflammation of mucous membrane lining the bronchi 
depression, anxiety, sleep problems, nervousness 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
133 
 
 
 
Common side effects that may show up in blood tests: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increased blood sugar (glucose) 
decreased number of white blood cells 
decreased number of neutrophils 
decreased level of blood albumin 
decreased level of haemoglobin 
increased levels of blood bilirubin (a substance produced by the liver) 
changes in the enzymes that control blood clotting 
Uncommon side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
painful urination 
disturbances of heart rhythm (QT prolongation) 
stomach flu (gastroenteritis), sore throat 
mouth blisters/sores, inflammation of the stomach 
skin changes including change in colour, peeling, redness, itching, lesion and night sweats 
blood clots in a vein to the liver (possible liver and/or digestive system damage) 
abnormal blood clotting in small blood vessels with kidney failure 
rash, bruising at the injection site, chest discomfort 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) caused by excessive destruction of red blood 
cells (haemolytic anaemia) 
confusion, agitation 
liver failure 
• 
• 
The following side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with Revolade in 
patients with severe aplastic anaemia (SAA): 
If these side effects become severe, please tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Very common side effects 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
cough 
headache 
mouth and throat pain 
diarrhoea 
feeling sick (nausea) 
joint pain (arthralgia) 
pain in extremities (arms, legs, hands and feet) 
dizziness 
feeling very tired 
fever 
chills 
itchy eyes 
blisters in the mouth 
bleeding of the gums 
abdominal pain 
muscle spasms 
Very common side effects that may show up in the blood tests 
• 
abnormal changes to the cells in your bone marrow 
• 
increased levels of liver enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase (AST)) 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects 
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
anxiety 
depression 
feeling cold 
generally feeling unwell 
eye problems including vision problems, blurred vision, cloudy lens in the eye (cataract), spots 
or deposits in eye (vitreous floaters), dry eye, itchy eye, yellowing of the whites of the eyes or 
skin 
nose bleed 
digestive system problems including difficulty swallowing, mouth pain, swollen tongue, 
vomiting, loss of appetite, stomach pain/discomfort, swollen stomach, digestive wind/gas, 
constipation, intestinal motility disorder which can cause contipation, bloating, diarrhea and/or 
above mentioned symptoms, change in stool colour 
fainting 
skin problems including small red or purple spots caused by bleeding into the skin (petechiae) 
rash, itching, hives, skin lesion 
back pain 
muscle pain 
bone pain 
weakness (asthenia) 
swelling of the lower limbs due to the accumulation of fluids 
abnormal colored urine 
interruption in blood supply to spleen (splenic infarction) 
runny nose 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common side effects that may show up in the blood tests 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increase in enzymes due to muscle breakdown (creatine phosphokinase) 
accumulation of iron in the body (iron overload) 
decrease in blood sugar levels (hypoglycaemia) 
increased levels of blood bilirubin (a substance produced by the liver) 
decreased levels of white blood cells 
Side effects with frequency not known 
Frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
• 
• 
• 
skin discolouration 
darkening of the skin 
liver injury due to medication 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Revolade 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the sachet. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not open the foil sachets until ready for use. After mixing, Revolade oral suspension should be 
administered immediately, but may be stored for no more than 30 minutes at room temperature. 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Revolade contains 
25 mg powder for oral suspension 
The active substance in Revolade is eltrombopag. Each sachet contains a powder for reconstitution 
that delivers 32 mg eltrombopag olamine, equivalent to 25 mg of eltrombopag free acid. 
The other ingredients are: mannitol, sucralose and xanthan gum. 
What Revolade looks like and contents of the pack 
Revolade 25 mg powder for oral suspension is available in kits containing 30 sachets; each sachet 
contains a reddish-brown to yellow powder. Each pack contains 30 sachets, one 40 ml reusable mixing 
bottle with lid and cap, and 30 single-use oral dosing syringes. 
Marketing authorisation holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Lek d.d 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
Ljubljana 1526 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
Ljubljana 1000 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in. 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 555 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
Revolade 25 mg powder for oral suspension 
(eltrombopag) 
Read and follow these instructions to prepare a dose of Revolade and give it to the patient. If you have 
any questions, or if you damage or lose any of the supplies in your kit, ask your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist for advice 
Before you start 
Read these messages first 
• 
Revolade powder must be mixed only with water at room temperature. 
 Give the medicine to the patient immediately after you have mixed the powder with water. If 
you don’t use the medicine within 30 minutes of mixing it, you will need to mix a new dose. 
Dispose of the unused mixture in your household waste; don’t pour it down the drain. 
• 
• 
• 
Try not to let the medicine touch your skin. If this happens, wash the area immediately with 
soap and water. If you get a skin reaction, or if you have any questions, contact the doctor. 
If you spill any powder or liquid, clean it up with a damp cloth (see step 14 of the instructions). 
Take care that children do not play with the bottle, cap, lid or syringes — there is a risk of 
choking if children put them in their mouth. 
What you need 
Each Revolade powder for oral suspension kit contains: 
30 sachets of powder 
1 reusable mixing bottle with lid and cap (note — 
the mixing bottle may become stained) 
Cap 
Lid 
30 single-use oral dosing syringes 
Plunger 
Syringe tip 
To prepare and give a dose of Revolade, you need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The correct number of sachets your doctor has prescribed (supplied in the kit) 
1 reusable mixing bottle with lid and cap (supplied in the kit) 
1 single-use oral dosing syringe (supplied in the kit) 
1 clean glass or cup filled with drinking water (not supplied) 
scissors to cut sachet (not supplied) 
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Make sure that the bottle, cap and lid are dry before you use them. 
To prepare the dose 
1.  Make sure the lid is not on the mixing bottle. 
2.  Fill the syringe with 20 ml drinking water from the glass or cup. 
A new single-use oral dosing syringe should be used to prepare each 
dose of Revolade for oral suspension. 
• 
• 
• 
Start with the plunger pushed all the way into the syringe. 
Put the tip of the syringe all the way into the water 
Pull back on the plunger to the 20 ml mark on the syringe. 
3.  Empty water into open mixing bottle 
• 
Slowly pushing the plunger all the way into the syringe. 
4.  Take only the prescribed number of sachets for one dose out of the kit. 
• 
• 
• 
25 mg dose — 1 sachet 
50 mg dose — 2 sachets 
75 mg dose — 3 sachets 
5.  Add the powder from the prescribed number of sachets to 
the bottle. 
• 
Tap the top of each sachet to make sure the contents fall to 
the bottom 
Cut off the top of each sachet with scissors 
Empty all contents of each sachet into the mixing bottle 
Make sure not to spill the powder outside the mixing bottle. 
• 
• 
• 
6.  Screw the lid onto the mixing bottle. Make sure the cap is firmly pushed onto the lid, so it is 
closed. 
7.  Gently and slowly shake the mixing bottle backwards and 
forwards for at least 20 seconds to mix the water with the powder. 
• 
Don’t shake the bottle hard — that could make the medicine 
foam. 
To give a dose to a patient 
8.  Make sure the plunger is pushed all the way into the syringe. 
• 
• 
9.  Fill the syringe with the medicine. 
• 
Pull cap off the lid of the mixing bottle 
Insert the syringe tip into the hole in the bottle lid. 
Turn the mixing bottle upside-down together with the 
syringe. 
Pull back the plunger until all the medicine is in the syringe. 
The medicine is a dark brown liquid. 
Remove the syringe from the bottle. 
• 
• 
• 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Give the medicine to the patient. Do this straight away when 
you have mixed the dose. 
• 
Place the tip of the syringe into the inside of the patient’s 
cheek. 
Slowly push the plunger all the way down so the medicine 
goes into the patient’s mouth. 
Make sure the patient has time to swallow. 
• 
IMPORTANT: 
You have now given the patient nearly all of their dose of medicine. But there will still be some left 
in the bottle, even though you may not be able to see it. 
Now you need to complete steps 11 to 13 to make sure the patient receives all of the medicine. 
11.  Again fill the syringe, this time with 10 ml of drinking water. 
• 
Start with the plunger pushed all the way down into the 
syringe. 
Put the tip of the syringe all the way into the water 
Pull back on the plunger to the 10 ml mark on the syringe. 
• 
• 
12.  Empty the water into the mixing bottle. 
• 
Insert the tip of the syringe into the hole in the lid of the 
mixing bottle. 
Slowly push the plunger all the way into the syringe. 
Push the cap firmly back on to the lid of the mixing bottle. 
• 
• 
Dispose of the cloth and gloves used to clean up the spillage in your household waste. 
13.  Repeat steps 7 to 10 – gently shake the bottle to mix the rest of the medicine, then give all the 
rest of the liquid to the patient. 
To clean up 
14.  If you have spilt any powder or mixed medicine, clean it up with a damp disposable cloth. 
You may choose to wear disposable gloves so your skin doesn’t get stained. 
• 
15.  Clean the mixing equipment. 
• 
Throw away the used oral dosing syringe. A new oral dosing syringe should be used to 
prepare each dose of Revolade for oral suspension. 
Rinse the mixing bottle and lid under running water. (The mixing bottle may become stained 
from the medicine. This is normal.) 
• 
Let all the equipment dry in the air. 
•  Wash your hands with soap and water. 
After you have used all 30 sachets in the kit, dispose of the bottle. Always start with a complete 
new kit for each 30 sachets. 
• 
Keep Revolade powder for oral suspension, including the dosing kit, and all medicines out of the 
reach of children. 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
