17 February 2011 
EMA/CHMP/257566/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Reyataz 
atazanavir sulphate   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000494/II/0075 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP variation assessment report 
Type II variation EMEA/H/C/000494/II/0075 
Invented name/name: 
Reyataz 
International non-proprietary name/common 
atazanavir sulphate 
name: 
Indication summary (as last approved): 
treatment of HIV-1 infection 
Marketing authorisation holder: 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
1.  Scope of the variation and changes to the dossier 
Scope of the variation: 
Update of Summary of Product Characteristics, 
Annex IIB and Package Leaflet 
Update of sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 of the SmPC 
to reflect changes in the drug-drug interactions of 
ATV and drugs metabolised by CYP3A4, including 
PDE5 inhibitors, alfuzosin and salmeterol. The PL 
has been revised accordingly. Update of Annex IIB 
to delete the DDPS version number. 
Rapporteur:  
Philippe Lechat 
Product presentations affected: 
See Annex A to the Opinion 
Dossier modules/sections affected: 
Modules 1, 2 and 5 
Product Information affected: 
SmPC, Annex IIB and Package Leaflet 
(Attachment 1 - changes highlighted) 
2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Step 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Step date 
29 November 2010  
19 December 2010 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
8 February 2011 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
17 February 2011 
CHMP variation assessment report  
Page 2/7
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
3.  Scientific discussion 
3.1.  Introduction 
Reyataz (atazanavir, ATV) is an azapeptide HIV-1 protease inhibitor (PI). This compound selectively 
inhibits the viral processing of Gag-Pol proteins in HIV-1 infected cells, thus preventing formation of 
mature virions and infection of other cells. Atazanavir is authorised in the EU only if concomitantly 
used with ritonavir (RTV) as a pharmacokinetic enhancer (“boosting”).  
REYATAZ capsules, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, are indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 
infected adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal products. Based on available virological and clinical data from adult patients, no benefit is 
expected in patients with strains resistant to multiple protease inhibitors (≥ 4 PI mutations). There are 
very limited data available from children aged 6 to less than 18 years. The choice of REYATAZ in 
treatment experienced adult and paediatric patients should be based on individual viral resistance 
testing and the patient’s treatment history. 
Reyataz is currently approved as 100 mg, 150 mg, 200 mg and 300 mg capsules of atazanavir as well 
as a 50 mg/1.5 g oral powder (oral powder containing 1.5 g of powder per levelled measuring spoon, 
equivalent to 50 mg of atazanavir expressed as free base in a multidose HPDE bottle with a measuring 
spoon) for use in adults only.  
The MAH has submitted a type II variation to update Reyataz SmPC (sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5) and 
Package leaflet (section 2) with new information relative to the drug-drug interactions between ATV 
and drugs primarily metabolised by CYP3A4, including PDE5 inhibitors (sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil), 
alfuzosin and salmeterol. The PL has been revised accordingly.  
3.2.  Clinical aspects 
Rationale for the proposed change 
Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and UDP glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 (UGT1A1). Coadministration 
of ATV and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 or UGT1A1 may result in increased plasma 
concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic effects and its adverse 
effects. The magnitude of CYP3A4-mediated drug interactions on coadministered drug may change 
when ATV is coadministered with RTV, also a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4.  
Because of these pharmacological properties of ATV, and because ATV is commonly coadministered 
with RTV, the United States Food and Drug Administration requested that these safety label changes to 
be applied to the ATV US package insert. A literature search was also conducted by the MAH on the 
effect of ATV/RTV as well as a CYP3A4 inhibitor, ketoconazole, on several drugs that are known 
CYP3A4 substrates, including alfuzosin, phosphodiesterase type 5 (PED5) inhibitors (sildenafil, 
tadalafil, and vardenafil), and salmeterol, using 5 databases (ADIS Clinical Trial Insights, Reactions, 
Medline, Derwent Drug Files, and Excerpta Medica). Overall, 125 references were obtained that were 
reviewed for relevancy. After reviewing the available drug-drug interaction data, including the 
literature data, the MAH has incorporated these necessary changes into the Company Core Data Sheet 
(CCDS) for ATV. 
Based on the above, the MAH have proposed changes to the European Union (EU) PI which are 
described in the following paragraphs. No supportive study reports have been provided in this 
application. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
Page 3/7
  
 
 
 
 
Analysis of data submitted 
Alfuzosin 
Alfuzosin is an alpha1-adrenoreceptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of benign prostatic 
hyperplasia. Alfuzosin undergoes extensive metabolism by the liver, and CYP3A4 is the principal 
hepatic enzyme isoform involved in its metabolism. ATV and RTV are both strong inhibitors of CYP3A4.  
RTV is currently contraindicated for coadministration with alfuzosin due to the potential increased 
alfuzosin concentrations that can result in hypotension. Since ATV has to be used in combination with 
RTV, coadministration of ATV and RTV with alfuzosin may further increase alfuzosin concentrations.  
Phosphodiesterase Type 5 Inhibitors 
PED5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, tadalafil, and vardenafil, are primarily metabolized by CYP3A4. 
Coadministration of PDE5 inhibitors with ATV and RTV may cause increased concentrations of the PDE5 
inhibitor and result in increased potential for PDE5 inhibitor-associated adverse events (AEs). 
  Sildenafil 
In the EU sildenafil is sold under 2 brand names for different indications: one is indicated for the 
treatment of erectile dysfunction and the other one is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil metabolism is principally mediated by the cytochrome P450 isoforms 3A4 
(major route). Therefore, inhibitors of these isoenzymes may reduce sildenafil clearance. Co-
administration of RTV, which is a highly potent P450 inhibitor, at steady state (500 mg twice daily 
[BID]) with sildenafil (100 mg single dose) resulted in a 300% (4-fold) increase in sildenafil maximum 
concentration (Cmax) and a 1,000% (11-fold) increase in sildenafil plasma area under the 
concentration-time curve (AUC). At 24 hours, the plasma levels of sildenafil were still approximately 
200 ng/mL, compared to approximately 5 ng/mL when sildenafil was administered alone. This is 
consistent with RTV’s marked effects on a broad range of P450 substrates. Based on these 
pharmacokinetic (PK) results, coadministration of sildenafil with RTV is not advised (section 4.5 of 
sildenafil SmPC). 
Sildenafil when used for pulmonary arterial hypertension:  
Concomitant use of sildenafil with RTV is contraindicated in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients 
(sildenafil SmPCs). Although a safe and effective dose of sildenafil has not been established for the 
treatment of pulmonary hypertension when used with ATV/RTV, there is an increased potential for 
sildenafil-associated AEs (including visual disturbances, hypotension, priapism, and syncope) when 
sildenafil is coadministered with ATV/RTV due to potentially increased exposures to sildenafil.  
Sildenafil when used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction: 
Based on the PK results shown above, the sildenafil SmPCs suggest that co-administration of sildenafil 
with RTV is expected to increase sildenafil concentration, and may result in increased adverse 
reactions.  
 
Tadalafil 
In the EU, tadalafil is sold under 2 trade names for different indications: one is indicated for the 
treatment of erectile dysfunction and the other one is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Coadministration of ATV/RTV may substantially increase the plasma concentrations of 
tadalafil through inhibition of CYP3A4. It has been shown that coadministration of a CYP3A4 inhibitor, 
ketoconazole, at 200 mg daily increased tadalafil (10 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2-fold and Cmax 
by 15%, relative to the AUC and Cmax values for tadalafil alone. Coadministration of ketoconazole at a 
CHMP variation assessment report  
Page 4/7
 
 
 
 
 
higher dose (400 mg daily) increased tadalafil (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 4-fold and Cmax by 
22%. In addition, coadministration of RTV (200 mg BID), which is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, increased 
tadalafil (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2-fold with no change in Cmax. Although the effect of 
ATV/RTV on the exposures of tadalafil has not been directly evaluated, it is expected that 
coadministration of ATV and a low-dose RTV will substantially increase tadalafil concentrations, and 
may result in PDE5-associated AEs such as hypotension, visual changes, and priapism.  
  Vardenafil 
Vardenafil is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Although a direct drug interaction study between ATV 
and vardenafil has not been reported, the following drug interaction data have been presented in the 
vardenafil SmPC. Coadministration of vardenafil with RTV (600 mg BID) resulted in a 13-fold increase 
in vardenafil Cmax and a 49-fold increase in vardenafil area under the concentration-time curve from 
time 0 to 24 hours when coadministered with vardenafil 5 mg. In addition, coadministration of 
ketoconazole (200 mg), a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, with vardenafil (5 mg) resulted in a 10-fold 
increase in vardenafil AUC and a 4-fold increase in vardenafil Cmax. 
Although specific interaction studies have not been conducted, it is expected that coadministration of 
ATV and low-dose RTV will substantially increase vardenafil concentrations, and may result in PDE5-
associated AEs such as hypotension, visual changes, and priapism.  
  Salmeterol 
Salmeterol is a long-acting inhaled beta-agonist indicated for the treatment of asthma and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease. Salmeterol is a substrate of CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study in 20 
healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg BID) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg 
QD) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax 
increased 1.4-fold). Three subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged 
QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the 
mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent 
increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 
Although a drug interaction study between ATV and salmeterol has not been reported, based on the 
inhibitory property of ATV and RTV to the CYP3A4 enzyme, it is expected that concomitant use of 
salmeterol and ATV/RTV may result in increased cardiovascular AEs associated with salmeterol.  
Results and discussion 
The CHMP acknowledged that no studies were conducted to assess the potential drug-drug interactions 
described above, however, given the potential development of safety issues when these drugs are 
coadministered with ATV + RTV, the data from the literature was deemed relevant for inclusion in the 
SmPC. A brief discussion on the benefit and risks for the individual compounds follows.  
Alfuzosin: The coadministration of alfuzosin with ATV/RTV may be associated with the potential of 
hypotension and syncope in patients receiving this combination, and in consequence, the potential for 
injuries. Given that alfuzosin is used for benign prostatic hypertrophy, and that there are other 
compounds available to the patients with this disease that are not expected to have a drug-drug 
interaction with ATV/RTV, the MAH proposed to contraindicate the coadministration of these 
compounds. The CHMP is in agreement with this contraindication. 
Phosphodiesterase Type 5 Inhibitors: The drug interaction between PDE5 inhibitors and CYP3A4 
inhibitors, including RTV, has been well studied when used for erectile dysfunction, and is included in 
the ATV CCDS with the recommendation to use with caution and dose adjustment. However, when 
given for pulmonary hypertension, these compounds, particularly sildenafil, are used at a much higher 
CHMP variation assessment report  
Page 5/7
 
 
 
 
 
dose compared to the dose used for erectile dysfunction. Although a drug-drug interaction study has 
not been conducted with sildanefil (20 mg three times a day), which is the dose used for pulmonary 
hypertension, this dose cannot be adjusted without compromising the efficacy of the drug similar to 
sildanefil when given for erectile dysfunction. The potential clinical AEs with the higher exposure of 
sildenafil when given for pulmonary hypertension would include hypotension, visual disturbances, and 
syncope.  
Hence, the MAH proposed i) to contraindicate the coadministration of sildenafil when used with 
ATV/RTV for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, and ii) to add a warning in the Reyataz 
SmPC that particular caution should be used when prescribing sildenafil for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction in patients receiving ATV with concomitant low-dose RTV, as dose adjustment can be 
achieved by dose reduction. The CHMP is in agreement with this approach. 
 Pulmonary hypertension occurs with increased frequency among patients with HIV infection. Although 
the pathogenesis of HIV-associated pulmonary hypertension remains unknown, it appears to occur 
independently of other risk factors associated with pulmonary vasculopathy, such as chronic hepatitis C 
infection and intravenous drug use. Hence, it is important to preserve treatment options for patients 
who have HIV disease and pulmonary hypertension and are receiving ATV/RTV. Thus, for tadalafil, the 
MAH proposed a recommendation to use with caution rather than contraindicating, given that dose 
adjustment is feasible with this compound when coadministered with ATV/RTV. Therefore, a warning 
statement has been added in the Reyataz SmPC that particular caution should be used when 
prescribing tadalafil and vardenafil (PDE5 inhibitors) for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in 
patients receiving ATV with concomitant low-dose RTV. The CHMP endorses the warning statement. 
Salmeterol: HIV is an independent risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Salmeterol is frequently used in the treatment of COPD, and hence, it is important to preserve the 
option for HIV patients who are receiving ATV/RTV to be able to take salmeterol while being carefully 
monitored for AEs. Therefore, the MAH proposed to add a warning to the Reyataz SmPC that 
coadministration of salmeterol and ATV is not recommended. The warning is endorsed by CHMP. 
Changes to the Product Information 
4.3 
Contraindications 
  Reyataz was contraindicated to use with the PDE5 inhibitor sildenafil and references to section 4.4 
and section 4.5 were included.  
  Reyataz was contraindicated to use with alfuzosin. 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use 
  A warning was included for the PDE5 inhibitors used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, with 
reference to section 4.5. 
  A warning was included that the concomitant use of salmeterol and REYATAZ/ritonavir may result 
in increased cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol. Co-administration of 
salmeterol and REYATAZ is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 
 
 
The contraindication for alfuzosin and sildenafil when used for PAH were reflected in the table. 
Information on tadalafil, Vardenafil and in general on PDE5 inhibitors was included in the table. 
Information on Salmeterol in co-administration with Reyataz was introduced in the table. 
CHMP variation assessment report  
Page 6/7
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions  
Based on literature review the MAH has proposed to update sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 of the SmPC to 
reflect changes in the drug-drug interactions of ATV and drugs metabolised by CYP3A4, including PDE5 
inhibitors, alfuzosin and salmeterol. The PL has been revised accordingly.  
The CHMP endorsed the contraindications and the further warnings and information on interaction as 
proposed by the MAH. 
4.  Conclusion 
On 17 February 2011 the CHMP considered this Type II variation EMEA/H/C/000494/II/0075 to be 
acceptable and agreed on the amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics, Annex IIB and Package Leaflet.  
CHMP variation assessment report  
Page 7/7
 
 
 
 
 
 
