ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules 
Each capsule contains 100 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
Excipient with known effect: 54.79 mg of lactose per capsule. 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules 
Each capsule contains 150 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
Excipient with known effect: 82.18 mg of lactose per capsule. 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules 
Each capsule contains 200 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
Excipient with known effect: 109.57 mg of lactose per capsule. 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules 
Each capsule contains 300 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
Excipient with known effect: 164.36 mg of lactose per capsule. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules 
Opaque blue and white capsule printed with white and blue inks, with "BMS 100 mg" on one half and 
with "3623" on the other half. 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules 
Opaque blue and powder blue capsule printed with white and blue inks, with "BMS 150 mg" on one 
half and with "3624" on the other half. 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules 
Opaque blue capsule printed with white ink, with "BMS 200 mg" on one half and with "3631" on the 
other half. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules 
Opaque red and blue capsule printed with white ink, with "BMS 300 mg" on one half and with "3622" 
on the other half. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
REYATAZ capsules, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, are indicated for the treatment of 
HIV-1-infected adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 4.2). 
Based on available virological and clinical data from adult patients, no benefit is expected in patients 
with strains resistant to multiple protease inhibitors (≥ 4 PI mutations). 
The choice of REYATAZ in treatment-experienced adult and paediatric patients should be based on 
individual viral resistance testing and the patient’s treatment history (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
Posology 
Adults 
The recommended dose of REYATAZ capsules is 300 mg once daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg 
once daily and with food. Ritonavir is used as a booster of atazanavir pharmacokinetics 
(see sections 4.5 and 5.1). (See also section 4.4 Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive 
conditions). 
Paediatric patients (6 years to less than 18 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg) 
The dose of atazanavir capsules for paediatric patients is based on body weight as shown in Table 1 
and should not exceed the recommended adult dose. REYATAZ capsules must be taken with ritonavir 
and have to be taken with food. 
Table 1: 
Dose for paediatric patients (6 years to less than 18 years of age and weighing at 
least 15 kg) for REYATAZ capsules with ritonavir 
Body Weight (kg) 
15 to less than 35 
at least 35 
a Ritonavir capsules, tablets or oral solution. 
REYATAZ once daily dose 
200 mg 
300 mg 
ritonavir once daily dosea 
100 mg 
100 mg 
Paediatric patients (at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg): REYATAZ oral powder is 
available for paediatric patients at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg (see Summary of 
Product Characteristics for REYATAZ oral powder). Switching to REYATAZ capsules from 
REYATAZ oral powder is encouraged as soon as patients are able to consistently swallow capsules. 
When transitioning between formulations, a change in dose may be needed. Consult the dosing table 
for the specific formulation (see Summary of Product Characteristics for REYATAZ oral powder). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dosage adjustment is needed. REYATAZ with ritonavir is not recommended in patients 
undergoing haemodialysis (see sections 4.4, and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
REYATAZ with ritonavir has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. REYATAZ with 
ritonavir should be used with caution in patients with mild hepatic impairment. REYATAZ with 
ritonavir must not be used in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (see sections 4.3, 4.4 
and 5.2). 
In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the initial recommended ritonavir-boosted regimen 
(see section 4.4), unboosted REYATAZ could be maintained in patients with mild hepatic impairment 
at a dose of 400 mg, and in patients with moderate hepatic impairment with a reduced dose of 300 mg 
once daily with food (see section 5.2). Unboosted REYATAZ must not be used in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment. 
Pregnancy and Postpartum 
During the second and third trimesters of pregnancy: 
REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg may not provide sufficient exposure to atazanavir, 
especially when the activity of atazanavir or the whole regimen may be compromised due to drug 
resistance. Since there are limited data available and due to inter-patient variability during pregnancy, 
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring (TDM) may be considered to ensure adequate exposure. 
The risk of a further decrease in atazanavir exposure is expected when atazanavir is given with 
medicinal products known to reduce its exposure (e.g., tenofovir disoproxil or H2-receptor 
antagonists). 
 
If tenofovir disoproxil or an H2-receptor antagonist is needed, a dose increase to REYATAZ 
400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg with TDM may be considered (see sections 4.6 and 5.2). 
It is not recommended to use REYATAZ with ritonavir for pregnant patients who are receiving 
both tenofovir disoproxil and an H2-receptor antagonist. 
 
(See section 4.4 Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive conditions). 
During postpartum: 
Following a possible decrease in atazanavir exposure during the second and third trimester, atazanavir 
exposures might increase during the first two months after delivery (see section 5.2). Therefore, 
postpartum patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactions. 
 
During this time, postpartum patients should follow the same dose recommendation as for non-
pregnant patients, including those for co-administration of medicinal products known to affect 
atazanavir exposure (see section 4.5). 
Paediatric patients (less than 3 months of age) 
REYATAZ should not be used in children less than 3 months because of safety concerns especially 
taking into account the potential risk of kernicterus. 
Method of administration: 
For oral use. The capsules should be swallowed whole. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency (see sections 4.2, 4.4 
and 5.2). REYATAZ with ritonavir is contraindicated in patients with moderate hepatic insufficiency 
(see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.2). 
Co-administration with simvastatin or lovastatin (see section 4.5). 
Combination of rifampicin (see section 4.5). 
Combination of the PDE5 inhibitor sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH) only (see section 4.5). For co-administration of sildenafil for the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction see sections 4.4 and 4.5. 
Co-administration with medicinal products that are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome 
P450 and have narrow therapeutic windows (e.g., quetiapine, lurasidone, alfuzosin, astemizole, 
terfenadine, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, bepridil, triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for 
caution on parenterally administered midazolam, see section 4.5), lomitapide, and ergot alkaloids, 
particularly, ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine) (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose 
combination (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with products containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with apalutamide (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Co-administration of REYATAZ with ritonavir at doses greater than 100 mg once daily has not been 
clinically evaluated. The use of higher ritonavir doses may alter the safety profile of atazanavir 
(cardiac effects, hyperbilirubinaemia) and therefore is not recommended. Only when atazanavir with 
ritonavir is co-administered with efavirenz, a dose increase of ritonavir to 200 mg once daily could be 
considered. In this instance, close clinical monitoring is warranted (see Interaction with other 
Medicinal Products below). 
Patients with coexisting conditions 
Hepatic impairment: Atazanavir is primarily hepatically metabolised and increased plasma 
concentrations were observed in patients with hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). The 
safety and efficacy of REYATAZ has not been established in patients with significant underlying liver 
disorders. Patients with chronic hepatitis B or C and treated with combination antiretroviral therapy 
are at an increased risk for severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of 
concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer also to the relevant Summary of 
Product Characteristics for these medicinal products (see section 4.8). 
Patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis, have an increased 
frequency of liver function abnormalities during combination antiretroviral therapy and should be 
monitored according to standard practice. If there is evidence of worsening liver disease in such 
patients, interruption or discontinuation of treatment must be considered. 
Renal impairment: No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with renal impairment. However, 
REYATAZ is not recommended in patients undergoing haemodialysis (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
QT prolongation: Dose-related asymptomatic prolongations in PR interval with REYATAZ have been 
observed in clinical studies. Caution should be used with medicinal products known to induce PR 
prolongations. In patients with pre-existing conduction problems (second degree or higher 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
atrioventricular or complex bundle-branch block), REYATAZ should be used with caution and only if 
the benefits exceed the risk (see section 5.1). Particular caution should be used when prescribing 
REYATAZ in association with medicinal products which have the potential to increase the QT 
interval and/or in patients with pre-existing risk factors (bradycardia, long congenital QT, electrolyte 
imbalances (see sections 4.8 and 5.3). 
Haemophiliac patients: There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin 
haematomas and haemarthroses, in type A and B haemophiliac patients treated with protease 
inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, 
treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A 
causal relationship has been suggested, although the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. 
Haemophiliac patients should therefore be made aware of the possibility of increased bleeding. 
Weight and metabolic parameters 
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to the disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate. 
In clinical studies, REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir) has been shown to induce dyslipidaemia to a 
lesser extent than comparators. 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Reversible elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyl 
transferase (UGT) have occurred in patients receiving REYATAZ (see section 4.8). Hepatic 
transaminase elevations that occur with elevated bilirubin in patients receiving REYATAZ should be 
evaluated for alternative aetiologies. Alternative antiretroviral therapy to REYATAZ may be 
considered if jaundice or scleral icterus is unacceptable to a patient. Dose reduction of atazanavir is not 
recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. 
Indinavir is also associated with indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia due to inhibition of 
UGT. Combinations of REYATAZ and indinavir have not been studied and co-administration of these 
medicinal products is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Withdrawal of ritonavir only under restrictive conditions 
The recommended standard treatment is REYATAZ boosted with ritonavir, ensuring optimal 
pharmacokinetic parameters and level of virologic suppression. 
The withdrawal of ritonavir from the boosted regimen of REYATAZ is not recommended, but may be 
considered in adults patients at the dose of 400 mg once daily with food only under the following 
combined restrictive conditions: 
 
 
 
absence of prior virologic failure 
undetectable viral load during the last 6 months under current regimen 
viral strains not harbouring HIV resistance associated mutations (RAMs) to current regimen. 
REYATAZ given without ritonavir should not be considered in patients treated with a backbone 
regimen containing tenofovir disoproxil and with other concomitant medications that reduce 
atazanavir bioavailability (see section 4.5 In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the recommended 
atazanavir boosted regimen) or in case of perceived challenging compliance. 
REYATAZ given without ritonavir should not be used in pregnant patients given that it could result in 
suboptimal exposure of particular concern for the mother infection and vertical transmission. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cholelithiasis 
Cholelithiasis has been reported in patients receiving REYATAZ (see section 4.8). Some patients 
required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. If signs or symptoms 
of cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be considered. 
Chronic kidney disease 
Chronic kidney disease in HIV-infected patients treated with atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, has 
been reported during postmarketing surveillance. A large prospective observational study has shown 
an association between an increased incidence of chronic kidney disease and cumulative exposure to 
atazanavir/ritonavir-containing regimen in HIV-infected patients with an initially normal eGFR. This 
association was observed independently of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil. Regular monitoring of the 
renal function of patients should be maintained throughout the treatment duration (see section 4.8). 
Nephrolithiasis 
Nephrolithiasis has been reported in patients receiving REYATAZ (see section 4.8). Some patients 
required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. In some cases, 
nephrolithiasis has been associated with acute renal failure or renal insufficiency. If signs or symptoms 
of nephrolithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be considered. 
Immune reactivation syndrome 
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of institution of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first few weeks or months of initiation of CART. 
Relevant examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections, 
and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. Any inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and 
treatment instituted when necessary. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease and autoimmune 
hepatitis) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported 
time to onset is more variable and these events can occurs many months after initiation of treatment. 
Osteonecrosis 
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement. 
Rash and associated syndromes 
Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 3 weeks 
of starting therapy with REYATAZ. 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions and drug rash with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome have been reported in patients receiving 
REYATAZ. Patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin 
reactions. REYATAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. 
The best results in managing these events come from early diagnosis and immediate interruption of 
any suspect medicines. If the patient has developed SJS or DRESS associated with the use of 
REYATAZ, REYATAZ may not be restarted. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interactions with other medicinal products 
The combination of REYATAZ with atorvastatin is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration of REYATAZ with nevirapine or efavirenz is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
If the co-administration of REYATAZ with an NNRTI is required, an increase in the dose of both 
REYATAZ and ritonavir to 400 mg and 200 mg, respectively, in combination with efavirenz could be 
considered with close clinical monitoring. 
Atazanavir is metabolised principally by CYP3A4. Co-administration of REYATAZ and medicinal 
products that induce CYP3A4 is not recommended (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
PDE5 inhibitors used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction: particular caution should be used when 
prescribing PDE5 inhibitors (sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil) for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction in patients receiving REYATAZ. Co-administration of REYATAZ with these medicinal 
products is expected to substantially increase their concentrations and may result in PDE5-associated 
adverse reactions such as hypotension, visual changes, and priapism (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration of voriconazole and REYATAZ with ritonavir is not recommended, unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk justifies the use of voriconazole. 
In the majority of patients, a reduction in both voriconazole and atazanavir exposures are expected. In 
a small number of patients without a functional CYP2C19 allele, significantly increased voriconazole 
exposures are expected (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of REYATAZ/ritonavir and fluticasone or other glucocorticoids that are metabolised 
by CYP3A4 is not recommended unless the potential benefit of treatment outweighs the risk of 
systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression 
(see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of salmeterol and REYATAZ may result in increased cardiovascular adverse events 
associated with salmeterol. Co-administration of salmeterol and REYATAZ is not recommended 
(see section 4.5). 
The absorption of atazanavir may be reduced in situations where gastric pH is increased irrespective of 
cause. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended (see section 4.5). If 
the combination of REYATAZ with a proton pump inhibitor is judged unavoidable, close clinical 
monitoring is recommended in combination with an increase in the dose of REYATAZ to 400 mg with 
100 mg of ritonavir; doses of proton pump inhibitors comparable to omeprazole 20 mg should not be 
exceeded. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ with other hormonal contraceptives or oral contraceptives containing 
progestogens other than norgestimate or norethindrone has not been studied, and therefore should be 
avoided (see section 4.5). 
Paediatric population 
Safety 
Asymptomatic PR interval prolongation was more frequent in paediatric patients than adults. 
Asymptomatic first- and second-degree AV block was reported in paediatric patients (see section 4.8). 
Caution should be used with medicinal products known to induce PR prolongations. In paediatric 
patients with pre-existing conduction problems (second degree or higher atrioventricular or complex 
bundle-branch block), REYATAZ should be used with caution and only if the benefits exceed the risk. 
Cardiac monitoring is recommended based on the presence of clinical findings (e.g., bradycardia). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
Atazanavir/ritonavir is not effective in viral strains harbouring multiple mutations of resistance. 
Excipients 
Lactose 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency, or 
glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
When REYATAZ and ritonavir are co-administered, the metabolic drug interaction profile for 
ritonavir may predominate because ritonavir is a more potent CYP3A4 inhibitor than atazanavir. The 
Summary of Product Characteristics for ritonavir must be consulted before initiation of therapy with 
REYATAZ and ritonavir. 
Atazanavir is metabolised in the liver through CYP3A4. It inhibits CYP3A4. Therefore, REYATAZ is 
contraindicated with medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic 
index: quetiapine, lurasidone, alfuzosin, astemizole, terfenadine, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, 
bepridil, triazolam, orally administered midazolam, lomitapide, and ergot alkaloids, particularly 
ergotamine and dihydroergotamine (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of REYATAZ with grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir 
fixed-dose combination is contraindicated because of the increase in grazoprevir and elbasvir plasma 
concentrations and potential for the increase in risk of ALT elevations associated with increased 
grazoprevir concentrations (see section 4.3). Co-administration of REYATAZ with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination is contraindicated because of the potential increase in 
the risk of ALT elevations due to a significant increase in glecapreir and pibrentasvir plasma 
concentrations (see section 4.3). 
Other interactions 
Interactions between atazanavir and other medicinal products are listed in the table below (increase is 
indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”). If available, 90% confidence intervals (CI) are 
shown in parentheses. The studies presented in Table 2 were conducted in healthy subjects unless 
otherwise noted. Of importance, many studies were conducted with unboosted atazanavir, which is not 
the recommended regimen of atazanavir (see section 4.4). 
If withdrawal of ritonavir is medically warranted under restrictive conditions (see section 4.4), special 
attention should be given to atazanavir interactions that may differ in the absence of ritonavir 
(see information below Table 2). 
Table 2: 
Interactions between REYATAZ and other medicinal products 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ANTI-HCV AGENTS 
Grazoprevir 200 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration of REYATAZ 
and elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated because of a 
significant increase in grazoprevir 
plasma concentrations and an 
associated potential increase in the 
risk of ALT elevations 
(see section 4.3). 
Interaction 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑43% (↑30% ↑57%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑12% (↑1% ↑24%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑23% (↑13% ↑134%) 
Grazoprevir AUC: ↑958% (↑678% 
↑1 339%) 
Grazoprevir Cmax: ↑524% (↑342% ↑781%) 
Grazoprevir Cmin: ↑1 064% (↑696% 
↑1 602%) 
Grazoprevir concentrations were greatly 
increased when co-administered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Elbasvir 50 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Sofosbuvir 400 mg/velpatasvir 
100 mg/voxilaprevir 100 mg 
single dose* 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Glecaprevir 
300 mg/pibrentasvir 120 mg 
once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily*) 
ANTIPLATELETS 
Ticagrelor 
Clopidogrel 
Prasugrel 
Interaction 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑7% (↓2% ↑17%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑2% (↓4% ↑8%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑15% (↑2% ↑29%) 
Elbasvir AUC: ↑376% (↑307% ↑456%) 
Elbasvir Cmax: ↑315% (↑246% ↑397%) 
Elbasvir Cmin: ↑545% (↑451% ↑654%) 
Elbasvir concentrations were increased 
when co-administered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Sofosbuvir AUC: ↑40% (↑25% ↑57%) 
Sofosbuvir Cmax:↑29% (↑9% ↑52%) 
Velpatasvir AUC: ↑93% (↑58% ↑136%) 
Velpatasvir Cmax: ↑29% (↑7% ↑56%) 
Voxilaprevir AUC: ↑331% (↑276% 
↑393%) 
Voxilaprevir Cmax: ↑342% (↑265% ↑435%) 
*Lack of pharmacokinetics interaction 
bounds 70-143% 
Effect on atazanavir and ritonavir exposure 
has not been studied. 
Expected: 
↔ Atazanavir 
↔ Ritonavir 
The mechanism of interaction between 
REYATAZ/ritonavir and 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir is 
inhibition of OATP1B, P-gp, and CYP3A. 
Glecaprevir AUC: ↑553% (↑424% ↑714%) 
Glecaprevir Cmax: ↑306% (↑215% ↑423%) 
Glecaprevir Cmin: ↑1 330% (↑885% 
↑1 970%) 
Pibrentasvir AUC: ↑64% (↑48% ↑82%) 
Pibrentasvir Cmax: ↑29% (↑15% ↑45%) 
Pibrentasvir Cmin: ↑129% (↑95% ↑168%) 
*Effect of atazanavir and ritonavir on the 
first dose of glecaprevir and pibrentasvir is 
reported. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ 
with voxilaprevir-containing 
products is expected to increase the 
concentration of voxilaprevir. Co-
administration of REYATAZ with 
voxilaprevir-containing regimens is 
not recommended. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ 
with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is 
contraindicated because of the 
potential increase in the risk of 
ALT elevations due to a significant 
increase in glecaprevir and 
pibrentasvir plasma concentrations 
(see section 4.3) 
The mechanism of the interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and/or 
ritonavir. 
The mechanism of the interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and 
or/ritonavir. 
The mechanism of the interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and 
or/ritonavir. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ 
with ticagrelor is not recommended 
due to potential increase in the 
antiplatelet activity of ticagrelor. 
Co-administration with clopidogrel 
is not recommended due to 
potential reduction of the 
antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. 
No dose adjustment is needed when 
prasugrel is co-administered with 
REYATAZ (with or without 
ritonavir). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ANTI-RETROVIRALS 
Protease inhibitors: The co-administration of REYATAZ/ritonavir and other protease inhibitors has not been studied 
but would be expected to increase exposure to other protease inhibitors. Therefore, such co-administration is not 
recommended. 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Ritonavir 100 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily) 
Studies conducted in HIV-
infected patients. 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑250% (↑144% 
↑403%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑120% (↑56% ↑211%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑713% (↑359% 
↑1 339%)* 
Ritonavir 100 mg once daily is used 
as a booster of atazanavir 
pharmacokinetics. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ 
and indinavir is not recommended 
(see section 4.4). 
Based on these data and because 
ritonavir is not expected to have a 
significant impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of NRTIs, the co-
administration of these medicinal 
products and REYATAZ is not 
expected to significantly alter the 
exposure of the co-administered 
medicinal products. 
Didanosine should be taken at the 
fasted state 2 hours after 
REYATAZ taken with food. The 
co-administration of stavudine with 
REYATAZ is not expected to 
significantly alter the exposure of 
stavudine. 
*In a combined analysis, atazanavir 
300 mg and ritonavir 100 mg (n = 33) was 
compared to atazanavir 400 mg without 
ritonavir (n = 28). 
The mechanism of interaction between 
atazanavir and ritonavir is CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
Indinavir is associated with indirect 
unconjugated hyperbilirubinaemia due to 
inhibition of UGT. 
Indinavir 
Nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) 
Lamivudine 150 mg twice daily 
+ zidovudine 300 mg twice daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
No significant effect on lamivudine and 
zidovudine concentrations was observed. 
Abacavir 
Didanosine (buffered tablets) 
200 mg/stavudine 40 mg, both 
single dose 
(atazanavir 400 mg single dose) 
The co-administration of abacavir and 
REYATAZ is not expected to significantly 
alter the exposure of abacavir. 
Atazanavir, simultaneous administration 
with ddI+d4T (fasted) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓87% (↓92% ↓79%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓89% (↓94% ↓82%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓84% (↓90% ↓73%) 
Atazanavir, dosed 1 hr after ddI+d4T 
(fasted) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↔3% (↓36% ↑67%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑12% (↓33% ↑18%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔3% (↓39% ↑73%) 
Atazanavir concentrations were greatly 
decreased when co-administered with 
didanosine (buffered tablets) and 
stavudine. The mechanism of interaction is 
a reduced solubility of atazanavir with 
increasing pH related to the presence of 
anti-acid agent in didanosine buffered 
tablets. 
No significant effect on didanosine and 
stavudine concentrations was observed. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Didanosine (enteric coated 
capsules) 400 mg single dose 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
300 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
300 mg tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate is equivalent to 245 mg 
tenofovir disoproxil. 
Studies conducted in HIV-
infected patients 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
300 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Didanosine (with food) 
Didanosine AUC: ↓34% (↓41% ↓27%) 
Didanosine Cmax: ↓38% (↓48% ↓26%) 
Didanosine Cmin: ↑25% (↓8% ↑69%) 
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed when 
administered with enteric-coated 
didanosine, but administration with food 
decreased didanosine concentrations. 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓22% (↓35% ↓6%) * 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓16% (↓30% ↔0%) * 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓23% (↓43% ↑2%) * 
* In a combined analysis from several 
clinical studies, atazanavir/ritonavir 
300/100 mg co-administered with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg 
(n = 39) was compared to 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg (n = 33). 
The efficacy of REYATAZ/ritonavir in 
combination with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in treatment-experienced patients 
has been demonstrated in clinical 
study 045 and in treatment naïve patients 
in clinical study 138 (see sections 4.8 
and 5.1). The mechanism of interaction 
between atazanavir and tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate is unknown. 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate AUC: ↑37% 
(↑30% ↑45%) 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Cmax: ↑34% 
(↑20% ↑51%) 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Cmin: ↑29% 
(↑21% ↑36%) 
300 mg tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate is equivalent to 245 mg 
tenofovir disoproxil. 
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) 
Efavirenz 600 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Efavirenz 600 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 200 mg once daily) 
Atazanavir (pm): all administered with 
food 
Atazanavir AUC: ↔0%(↓9% ↑10%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑17%(↑8% ↑27%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓42%(↓51% ↓31%)* 
Atazanavir (pm): all administered with 
food 
Atazanavir AUC: ↔6% (↓10% ↑26%)*/** 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔9% (↓5% ↑26%)*/** 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔12% (↓16% ↑49%)*/** 
*When compared to REYATAZ 
300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once daily in the 
evening without efavirenz. This decrease 
in atazanavir Cmin might negatively impact 
the efficacy of atazanavir. The mechanism 
of efavirenz/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 induction. 
**Based on historical comparison. 
12 
When co-administered with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, it is 
recommended that REYATAZ 
300 mg be given with ritonavir 
100 mg and tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate 300 mg (all as a single 
dose with food). 
Patients should be closely 
monitored for tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate-associated adverse 
reactions, including renal disorders. 
Co-administration of efavirenz and 
REYATAZ is not recommended 
(see section 4.4). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration of nevirapine 
and REYATAZ is not 
recommended (see section 4.4). 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Nevirapine 200 mg twice daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Study conducted in HIV-infected 
patients. 
Interaction 
Nevirapine AUC: ↑26% (↑17% ↑36%) 
Nevirapine Cmax: ↑21% (↑11% ↑32%) 
Nevirapine Cmin: ↑35% (↑25% ↑47%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓19% (↓35% ↑2%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔2% (↓15% ↑24%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓59% (↓73% ↓40%)* 
*When compared to REYATAZ 300 mg 
and ritonavir 100 mg without nevirapine. 
This decrease in atazanavir Cmin might 
negatively impact the efficacy of 
atazanavir. The mechanism of 
nevirapine/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 induction. 
Integrase Inhibitors 
Raltegravir 400 mg twice daily 
(atazanavir/ritonavir) 
Raltegravir AUC: ↑41% 
Raltegravir Cmax: ↑24% 
Raltegravir C12hr: ↑77% 
No dose adjustment required for 
raltegravir. 
ANTIBIOTICS 
Clarithromycin 500 mg twice 
daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
The mechanism is UGT1A1 inhibition. 
Clarithromycin AUC: ↑94% (↑75% 
↑116%) 
Clarithromycin Cmax: ↑50% (↑32% ↑71%) 
Clarithromycin Cmin: ↑160% (↑135% 
↑188%) 
No recommendation regarding dose 
reduction can be made; therefore, 
caution should be exercised if 
REYATAZ is co-administered with 
clarithromycin. 
14-OH clarithromycin 
14-OH clarithromycin AUC: ↓70% (↓74% 
↓66%) 
14-OH clarithromycin Cmax: ↓72% (↓76% 
↓67%) 
14-OH clarithromycin Cmin: ↓62% (↓66% 
↓58%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑28% (↑16% ↑43%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔6% (↓7% ↑20%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑91% (↑66% ↑121%) 
A dose reduction of clarithromycin may 
result in subtherapeutic concentrations of 
14-OH clarithromycin. 
The mechanism of the 
clarithromycin/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition. 
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed. 
Itraconazole, like ketoconazole, is a potent 
inhibitor as well as a substrate of CYP3A4. 
Based on data obtained with other boosted 
PIs and ketoconazole, where ketoconazole 
AUC showed a 3-fold increase, 
REYATAZ/ritonavir is expected to 
increase ketoconazole or itraconazole 
concentrations. 
13 
Ketoconazole and itraconazole 
should be used cautiously with 
REYATAZ/ritonavir, high doses of 
ketoconazole and itraconazole 
(> 200 mg/day) are not 
recommended. 
ANTIFUNGALS 
Ketoconazole 200 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
Itraconazole 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Voriconazole 200 mg twice daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Subjects with at least one 
functional CYP2C19 allele. 
Voriconazole 50 mg twice daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Subjects without a functional 
CYP2C19 allele. 
Fluconazole 200 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg and ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Interaction 
Voriconazole AUC: ↓33% (↓42% ↓22%) 
Voriconazole Cmax: ↓10% (↓22% ↓4%) 
Voriconazole Cmin: ↓39% (↓49% ↓28%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓12% (↓18% ↓5%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓13% (↓20% ↓4%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓20% (↓28% ↓10%) 
Ritonavir AUC: ↓12% (↓17% ↓7%) 
Ritonavir Cmax: ↓9% (↓17% ↔0%) 
Ritonavir Cmin: ↓25% (↓35% ↓14%) 
In the majority of patients with at least one 
functional CYP2C19 allele, a reduction in 
both voriconazole and atazanavir 
exposures are expected. 
Voriconazole AUC: ↑561% (↑451% 
↑699%) 
Voriconazole Cmax: ↑438% (↑355% 
↑539%) 
Voriconazole Cmin: ↑765% (↑571% 
↑1,020%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓20% (↓35% ↓3%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓19% (↓34% ↔0.2%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓31% (↓46% ↓13%) 
Ritonavir AUC: ↓11% (↓20% ↓1%) 
Ritonavir Cmax: ↓11% (↓24% ↑4%) 
Ritonavir Cmin: ↓19% (↓35% ↑1%) 
In a small number of patients without a 
functional CYP2C19 allele, significantly 
increased voriconazole exposures are 
expected. 
Atazanavir and fluconazole concentrations 
were not significantly modified when 
REYATAZ/ritonavir was co-administered 
with fluconazole. 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration of voriconazole 
and REYATAZ with ritonavir is 
not recommended unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk to the 
patient justifies the use of 
voriconazole (see section 4.4). 
At the time voriconazole treatment 
is required, a patient's CYP2C19 
genotype should be performed if 
feasible. 
Therefore if the combination is 
unavoidable, the following 
recommendations are made 
according to the CYP2C19 status: 
in patients with at least one 
- 
functional CYP2C19 allele, 
close clinical monitoring for 
a loss of both voriconazole 
(clinical signs) and 
atazanavir (virologic 
response) efficacy is 
recommended. 
- 
in patients without a 
functional CYP2C19 allele, 
close clinical and laboratory 
monitoring of voriconazole-
associated adverse events is 
recommended. 
If genotyping is not feasible, full 
monitoring of safety and efficacy 
should be performed. 
No dosage adjustments are needed 
for fluconazole and REYATAZ. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ANTIMYCOBACTERIAL 
Rifabutin 150 mg twice weekly 
(atazanavir 300 mg and ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Rifampicin 
ANTIPSYCHOTICS 
Quetiapine 
Interaction 
Rifabutin AUC: ↑48% (↑19% ↑84%)** 
Rifabutin Cmax: ↑149% (↑103% ↑206%)** 
Rifabutin Cmin: ↑40% (↑5% ↑87%)** 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin AUC: ↑990% 
(↑714% ↑1 361%)** 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin Cmax: ↑677% 
(↑513% ↑883%)** 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin Cmin: ↑1 045% 
(↑715% ↑1 510%)** 
**When compared to rifabutin 150 mg 
once daily alone. Total rifabutin and 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin AUC: ↑119% 
(↑78% ↑169%). 
In previous studies, the pharmacokinetics 
of atazanavir was not altered by rifabutin. 
Rifampicin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer 
and has been shown to cause a 72% 
decrease in atazanavir AUC which can 
result in virological failure and resistance 
development. During attempts to 
overcome the decreased exposure by 
increasing the dose of REYATAZ or other 
protease inhibitors with ritonavir, a high 
frequency of liver reactions was seen. 
Due to CYP3A4 inhibition by REYATAZ, 
concentrations of quetiapine are expected 
to increase. 
Lurasidone 
REYATAZ is expected to increase plasma 
levels of lurasidone due to CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
When given with REYATAZ, the 
recommended dose of rifabutin is 
150 mg 3 times per week on set 
days (for example Monday-
Wednesday-Friday). Increased 
monitoring for rifabutin-associated 
adverse reactions including 
neutropenia and uveitis is warranted 
due to an expected increase in 
exposure to rifabutin. Further 
dosage reduction of rifabutin to 
150 mg twice weekly on set days is 
recommended for patients in whom 
the 150 mg dose 3 times per week 
is not tolerated. It should be kept in 
mind that the twice weekly dosage 
of 150 mg may not provide an 
optimal exposure to rifabutin thus 
leading to a risk of rifamycin 
resistance and a treatment failure. 
No dose adjustment is needed for 
REYATAZ. 
The combination of rifampicin and 
REYATAZ is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of quetiapine 
with REYATAZ is contraindicated 
as REYATAZ may increase 
quetiapine-related toxicity. 
Increased plasma concentrations of 
quetiapine may lead to coma 
(see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of lurasidone 
with REYATAZ is contraindicated 
as this may increase lurasidone-
related toxicity (see section 4.3). 
15 
 
 
 
 
Interaction 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ACID REDUCING AGENTS 
H2-Receptor antagonists 
Without Tenofovir 
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at the recommended 
dose 300/100 mg once daily 
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓18% (↓25% ↑1%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓20% (↓32% ↓7%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔1% (↓16% ↑18%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓23% (↓32% ↓14%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓23% (↓33% ↓12%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓20% (↓31% ↓8%) 
In healthy volunteers with atazanavir/ritonavir at an increased dose 
of 400/100 mg once daily 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily 
Atazanavir AUC: ↔3% (↓14% ↑22%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔2% (↓13% ↑8%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓14% (↓32% ↑8%) 
With Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily (equivalent to 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil) 
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at the recommended dose 
of 300/100 mg once daily 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
For patients not taking tenofovir, 
if REYATAZ 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg and H2-receptor antagonists 
are co-administered, a dose 
equivalent to famotidine 20 mg 
twice daily should not be exceeded. 
If a higher dose of an H2-receptor 
antagonist is required (e.g., 
famotidine 40 mg twice daily or 
equivalent) an increase of the 
REYATAZ/ritonavir dose from 
300/100 mg to 400/100 mg can be 
considered. 
For patients who are taking 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, if 
REYATAZ/ritonavir with both 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and 
an H2-receptor antagonist are co-
administered, a dose increase of 
REYATAZ to 400 mg with 100 mg 
of ritonavir is recommended. A 
dose equivalent to famotidine 
40 mg twice daily should not be 
exceeded. 
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓21% (↓34% ↓4%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓21% (↓36% ↓4%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓19% (↓37% ↑5%)* 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓24% (↓36% ↓11%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓23% (↓36% ↓8%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓25% (↓47% ↑7%)* 
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at an increased dose 
of 400/100 mg once daily 
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑18% (↑6.5% ↑30%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑18% (↑6.7% ↑31%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑24% (↑10% ↑39%)* 
Atazanavir AUC: ↔2.3% (↓13% ↑10%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔5% (↓17% ↑8.4%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔1.3% (↓10% ↑15)* 
*When compared to atazanavir 300 mg 
once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
300 mg all as a single dose with food. 
When compared to atazanavir 300 mg with 
ritonavir 100 mg without tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate, atazanavir 
concentrations are expected to be 
additionally decreased by about 20%. 
The mechanism of interaction is decreased 
solubility of atazanavir as intra-gastric pH 
increases with H2-blockers. 
16 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Proton pump inhibitors 
Omeprazole 40 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Omeprazole 20 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration of REYATAZ 
with ritonavir and proton pump 
inhibitors is not recommended. If 
the combination is judged 
unavoidable, close clinical 
monitoring is recommended in 
combination with an increase in the 
dose of REYATAZ to 400 mg with 
100 mg of ritonavir; doses of proton 
pump inhibitors comparable to 
omeprazole 20 mg should not be 
exceeded (see section 4.4). 
Interaction 
Atazanavir (am): 2 hr after omeprazole 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓61% (↓65% ↓55%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓66% (↓62% ↓49%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓65% (↓71% ↓59%) 
Atazanavir (am): 1 hr after omeprazole 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓30% (↓43% ↓14%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓31% (↓42% ↓17%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓31% (↓46% ↓12%)* 
*When compared to atazanavir 300 mg 
once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily. 
The decrease in AUC, Cmax, and Cmin was 
not mitigated when an increased dose of 
REYATAZ/ritonavir (400/100 mg once 
daily) was temporally separated from 
omeprazole by 12 hours. Although not 
studied, similar results are expected with 
other proton pump inhibitors. This 
decrease in atazanavir exposure might 
negatively impact the efficacy of 
atazanavir. The mechanism of interaction 
is decreased solubility of atazanavir as 
intra-gastric pH increases with proton 
pump inhibitors. 
Antacids 
Antacids and medicinal 
products containing buffers 
Reduced plasma concentrations of 
atazanavir may be the consequence of 
increased gastric pH if antacids, including 
buffered medicinal products, are 
administered with REYATAZ. 
REYATAZ should be administered 
2 hours before or 1 hour after 
antacids or buffered medicinal 
products. 
ALPHA 1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST 
Alfuzosin 
Potential for increased alfuzosin 
concentrations which can result in 
hypotension. The mechanism of 
interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by 
REYATAZ and/or ritonavir. 
ANTICOAGULANTS 
Direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs) 
Co-administration of alfuzosin with 
REYATAZ is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3) 
Apixaban 
Rivaroxaban 
Potential for increased apixaban and 
rivaroxaban concentrations which can 
result in a higher risk of bleeding. 
Co-administration of apixaban or 
rivaroxaban and REYATAZ with 
ritonavir is not recommended. 
The mechanism of interaction is inhibition 
of CYP3A4/and P-gp by 
REYATAZ/ritonavir. 
Ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of both 
CYP3A4 and P-gp. 
REYATAZ is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. 
The potential inhibition of P-gp by 
REYATAZ is unknown and cannot be 
excluded. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Dabigatran 
Edoxaban 
Vitamin K antagonists 
Warfarin 
ANTIEPILEPTICS 
Carbamazepine 
Phenytoin, phenobarbital 
Interaction 
Potential for increased dabigatran 
concentrations which can result in a higher 
risk of bleeding. The mechanism of 
interaction is P-gp inhibition. 
Ritonavir is a strong P-gp inhibitor. 
Potential P-gp inhibition by REYATAZ is 
unknown and cannot be excluded. 
Potential for increased edoxaban 
concentrations which can result in a higher 
risk of bleeding. The mechanism of 
interaction is P-gp inhibition by 
REYATAZ/ritonavir. 
Ritonavir is a strong P-gp inhibitor. 
Potential P-gp inhibition by REYATAZ is 
unknown and cannot be excluded. 
Co-administration with REYATAZ has the 
potential to increase or decrease warfarin 
concentrations. 
REYATAZ may increase plasma levels of 
carbamazepine due to CYP3A4 inhibition. 
Due to carbamazepine inducing effect, a 
reduction in REYATAZ exposure cannot 
be ruled out. 
Ritonavir may decrease plasma levels of 
phenytoin and/or phenobarbital due to 
CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 induction. 
Due to phenytoin/phenobarbital inducing 
effect, a reduction in REYATAZ exposure 
cannot be ruled out. 
Lamotrigine 
Co-administration of lamotrigine and 
REYATAZ/ritonavir may decrease 
lamotrigine plasma concentrations due to 
UGT1A4 induction. 
18 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration of dabigatran 
and REYATAZ with ritonavir is 
not recommended. 
Exercise caution when edoxaban is 
used with REYATAZ. 
Please refer to the edoxaban SmPC 
sections 4.2 and 4.5 for appropriate 
edoxaban dosage recommendations 
for co-administration with P-gp 
inhibitors. 
It is recommended that the 
International Normalised Ratio 
(INR) be monitored carefully 
during treatment with REYATAZ, 
especially when commencing 
therapy. 
Carbamazepine should be used with 
caution in combination with 
REYATAZ. If necessary, monitor 
carbamazepine serum 
concentrations and adjust the dose 
accordingly. Close monitoring of 
the patient's virologic response 
should be excercised. 
Phenobarbital and phenytoin should 
be used with caution in 
combination with 
REYATAZ/ritonavir. 
When REYATAZ/ritonavir is co-
administered with either phenytoin 
or phenobarbital, a dose adjustment 
of phenytoin or phenobarbital may 
be required. 
Close monitoring of patient's 
virologic response should be 
exercised. 
Lamotrigine should be used with 
caution in combination with 
REYATAZ/ritonavir. 
If necessary, monitor lamotrigine 
concentrations and adjust the dose 
accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ANTINEOPLASTICS AND IMMUNOSUPRESSANTS 
Antineoplastics 
Interaction 
Apalutamide 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
induction by apalutamide and CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Encorafenib 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Ivosidenib 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Irinotecan 
Immunosuppressants 
Cyclosporin 
Tacrolimus 
Sirolimus 
Atazanavir inhibits UGT and may interfere 
with the metabolism of irinotecan, 
resulting in increased irinotecan toxicities. 
Concentrations of these 
immunosuppressants may be increased 
when co-administered with REYATAZ 
due to CYP3A4 inhibition. 
19 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration with REYATAZ 
(with or without ritonavir) is 
contraindicated due to the potential 
for decreased atazanavir and 
ritonavir plasma concentration with 
subsequent loss of virologic 
response and possible resistance to 
the class of protease inhibitors (see 
section 4.3). In addition, serum 
concentrations of apalutamide may 
be increased when coadministered 
with atazanavir/ritonavir, resulting 
in the potential for serious adverse 
events including seizure. 
Avoid co-administration of 
encorafenib with REYATAZ (with 
or without ritonavir) due to 
potential for increase in encorafenib 
plasma concentration and 
subsequent risk of serious adverse 
events such as QT interval 
prolongation. If co-administration 
of encorafenib with REYATAZ 
(with or without ritonavir) cannot 
be avoided, modify encorafenib 
dose as recommended for 
co-administration with strong and 
moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors in the 
Summary of Product 
Characteristics of encorafenib. 
Avoid co-administration of 
ivosidenib with REYATAZ (with 
or without ritonavir) due to 
potential for increase in ivosidenib 
plasma concentration and 
subsequent risk of serious adverse 
events such as QT interval 
prolongation. If co-administration 
of ivosidenib with REYATAZ 
(with or without ritonavir) cannot 
be avoided, modify ivosidenib dose 
as recommended for 
co-administration with strong and 
moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors in the 
Summary of Product 
Characteristics of ivosidenib. 
If REYATAZ is co-administered 
with irinotecan, patients should be 
closely monitored for adverse 
events related to irinotecan. 
More frequent therapeutic 
concentration monitoring of these 
medicinal products is recommended 
until plasma levels have been 
stabilised. 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
CARDIOVASCULAR AGENTS 
Antiarrhythmics 
Interaction 
Amiodarone, 
Systemic lidocaine, 
Quinidine 
Calcium channel blockers 
Bepridil 
Diltiazem 180 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
Verapamil 
Concentrations of these antiarrhythmics 
may be increased when co-administered 
with REYATAZ. The mechanism of 
amiodarone or systemic 
lidocaine/atazanavir interaction is CYP3A 
inhibition. Quinidine has a narrow 
therapeutic window and is contraindicated 
due to potential inhibition of CYP3A by 
REYATAZ. 
REYATAZ should not be used in 
combination with medicinal products that 
are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a 
narrow therapeutic index. 
Diltiazem AUC: ↑125% (↑109% ↑141%) 
Diltiazem Cmax: ↑98% (↑78% ↑119%) 
Diltiazem Cmin: ↑142% (↑114% ↑173%) 
Desacetyl-diltiazem AUC: ↑165% (↑145% 
↑187%) 
Desacetyl-diltiazem Cmax: ↑172% (↑144% 
↑203%) 
Desacetyl-diltiazem Cmin: ↑121% (↑102% 
↑142%) 
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed. There was an 
increase in the maximum PR interval 
compared to atazanavir alone. Co-
administration of diltiazem and 
REYATAZ/ritonavir has not been studied. 
The mechanism of diltiazem/atazanavir 
interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition. 
Serum concentrations of verapamil may be 
increased by REYATAZ due to CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Caution is warranted and 
therapeutic concentration 
monitoring is recommended when 
available. The concomitant use of 
quinidine is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Co-administration with bepridil is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3) 
An initial dose reduction of 
diltiazem by 50% is recommended, 
with subsequent titration as needed 
and ECG monitoring. 
Caution should be exercised when 
verapamil is co-administered with 
REYATAZ. 
20 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
CORTICOSTEROIDS 
Dexamethasone and other 
corticosteroids (all routes of 
administration) 
Interaction 
Co-administration with dexamethasone or 
other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A 
may result in loss of therapeutic effect of 
REYATAZ and development of resistance 
to atazanavir and/or ritonavir. Alternative 
corticosteroids should be considered. 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
induction by dexamethasone and CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Fluticasone propionate 
intranasal 50 μg 4 times daily 
for 7 days 
(ritonavir 100 mg capsules twice 
daily) 
And 
Inhaled/Nasal Corticosteroids 
The fluticasone propionate plasma levels 
increased significantly, whereas the 
intrinsic cortisol levels decreased by 
approximately 86% (90% confidence 
interval 82%-89%). Greater effects may be 
expected when fluticasone propionate is 
inhaled. Systemic corticosteroid effects 
including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal 
suppression have been reported in patients 
receiving ritonavir and inhaled or 
intranasally administered fluticasone 
propionate; this could also occur with 
other corticosteroids metabolised via the 
P450 3A pathway, e.g., budesonide. The 
effects of high fluticasone systemic 
exposure on ritonavir plasma levels are yet 
unknown. The mechanism of interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition. 
Concomitant use of REYATAZ (with or 
without ritonavir) and other Inhaled/Nasal 
Corticosteroids is expected to produce the 
same effects. 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Co-administration with 
corticosteroids (all routes of 
administration) that are metabolized 
by CYP3A, particularly for 
long-term use, may increase the risk 
for development of systemic 
corticosteroid effects including 
Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal 
suppression. The potential benefit 
of treatment versus the risk of 
systemic corticosteroid effects 
should be considered. 
For co-administration of 
cutaneously administered 
corticosteroids sensitive to CYP3A 
inhibition, consult the Summary of 
Product Characteristics of the 
corticosteroid for condition or uses 
that augment its systemic 
absorption. 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ/ritonavir and these 
glucocorticoids metabolised by 
CYP3A4 is not recommended 
unless the potential benefit of 
treatment outweighs the risk of 
systemic corticosteroid effects 
(see section 4.4).  
A dose reduction of the 
glucocorticoid should be considered 
with close monitoring of local and 
systemic effects or a switch to a 
glucocorticoid, which is not a 
substrate for CYP3A4 (e.g., 
beclomethasone). Moreover, in case 
of withdrawal of glucocorticoids, 
progressive dose reduction may 
have to be performed over a longer 
period. 
Concomitant use of Inhaled/Nasal 
Corticosteroids and REYATAZ 
(with or without ritonavir) may 
increase plasma concentrations of 
Inhaled/Nasal corticosteroids. Use 
with caution. Consider alternatives 
to Inhaled/Nasal Corticosteroids, 
particularly for long-term use. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION 
PDE5 Inhibitors 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil 
Interaction 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, and vardenafil are 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-
administration with REYATAZ may result 
in increased concentrations of the PDE5 
inhibitor and an increase in PDE5-
associated adverse events, including 
hypotension, visual changes, and priapism. 
The mechanism of this interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition. 
Patients should be warned about 
these possible side effects when 
using PDE5 inhibitors for erectile 
dysfunction with REYATAZ (see 
section 4.4). 
Also see PULMONARY 
ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION in 
this table for further information 
regarding co-administration of 
REYATAZ with sildenafil. 
GONADOTROPIN-RELEASING HORMONE (GnRH) RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Elagolix 
The mechanism of interaction is 
anticipated increase in elagolix exposure in 
the presence of CYP3A4 inhibition by 
atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Concomitant use of elagolix 
200 mg twice daily with 
REYATAZ (with or without 
ritonavir) for more than 1 month is 
not recommended due to the 
potential risk of adverse events 
such as bone loss and hepatic 
transaminase elevations. Limit 
concomitant use of elagolix 150 mg 
once daily with REYATAZ (with 
or without ritonavir) to 6 months. 
KINASE INHIBITORS 
Fostamatinib 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
HERBAL PRODUCTS 
St. John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) 
Concomitant use of St. John's wort with 
REYATAZ may be expected to result in 
significant reduction in plasma levels of 
atazanavir. This effect may be due to an 
induction of CYP3A4. There is a risk of 
loss of therapeutic effect and development 
of resistance (see section 4.3). 
Concomitant use of fostamatinib 
with REYATAZ (with or without 
ritonavir) may increase the plasma 
concentration of R406, the active 
metabolite of fostamatinib. Monitor 
for toxicities of R406 exposure 
resulting in dose-related adverse 
events such as hepatotoxicity and 
neutropenia. Fostamatinib dose 
reduction may be required. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ 
with products containing St. John's 
wort is contraindicated. 
22 
 
Interaction 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
HORMONAL CONTRACEPTIVES 
Ethinyloestradiol 25 μg + 
norgestimate 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Ethinyloestradiol AUC: ↓19% (↓25% 
↓13%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmax: ↓16% (↓26% ↓5%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmin: ↓37% (↓45% 
↓29%) 
Norgestimate AUC: ↑85% (↑67% ↑105%) 
Norgestimate Cmax: ↑68% (↑51% ↑88%) 
Norgestimate Cmin: ↑102% (↑77% ↑131%) 
While the concentration of 
ethinyloestradiol was increased with 
atazanavir given alone, due to both UGT 
and CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir, the 
net effect of atazanavir/ritonavir is a 
decrease in ethinyloestradiol levels 
because of the inducing effect of ritonavir. 
The increase in progestin exposure may 
lead to related side-effects (e.g., insulin 
resistance, dyslipidemia, acne and 
spotting), thus possibly affecting the 
compliance. 
Ethinyloestradiol AUC: ↑48% (↑31% 
↑68%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmax: ↑15% (↓1% ↑32%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmin: ↑91% (↑57% 
↑133%) 
Norethindrone AUC: ↑110% (↑68% 
↑162%) 
Norethindrone Cmax: ↑67% (↑42% ↑196%) 
Norethindrone Cmin: ↑262% (↑157% 
↑409%) 
The increase in progestin exposure may 
lead to related side effects (e.g., insulin 
resistance, dyslipidemia, acne and 
spotting), thus possibly affecting the 
compliance. 
Simvastatin and lovastatin are highly 
dependent on CYP3A4 for their 
metabolism and co-administration with 
REYATAZ may result in increased 
concentrations. 
The risk of myopathy including 
rhabdomyolysis may also be increased 
with atorvastatin, which is also 
metabolised by CYP3A4. 
23 
Ethinyloestradiol 35 μg + 
norethindrone 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
LIPID-MODIFYING AGENTS 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors 
Simvastatin 
Lovastatin 
Atorvastatin 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
If an oral contraceptive is 
administered with 
REYATAZ/ritonavir, it is 
recommended that the oral 
contraceptive contain at least 30 μg 
of ethinyloestradiol and that the 
patient be reminded of strict 
compliance with this contraceptive 
dosing regimen. Co-administration 
of REYATAZ/ritonavir with other 
hormonal contraceptives or oral 
contraceptives containing 
progestogens other than 
norgestimate has not been studied, 
and therefore should be avoided. 
An alternate reliable method of 
contraception is recommended. 
Co-administration of simvastatin or 
lovastatin with REYATAZ is 
contraindicated due to an increased 
risk of myopathy including 
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of atorvastatin 
with REYATAZ is not 
recommended. If the use of 
atorvastatin is considered strictly 
necessary, the lowest possible dose 
of atorvastatin should be 
administered with careful safety 
monitoring (see section 4.4). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Pravastatin 
Fluvastatin 
Other lipid-modifying agents 
Lomitapide 
INHALED BETA AGONISTS 
Salmeterol 
Interaction 
Although not studied, there is a potential 
for an increase in pravastatin or fluvastatin 
exposure when co-administered with 
protease inhibitors. Pravastatin is not 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Fluvastatin is 
partially metabolised by CYP2C9. 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Caution should be exercised. 
Lomitapide is highly dependent on 
CYP3A4 for metabolism and co-
administration with REYATAZ with 
ritonavir may result in increased 
concentrations. 
Co-administration of lomitapide 
and REYATAZ with ritonavir is 
contraindicated due to a potential 
risk of markedly increased 
transaminase levels and 
hepatotoxicity (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration with REYATAZ may 
result in increased concentrations of 
salmeterol and an increase in salmeterol-
associated adverse events. 
Co-administration of salmeterol 
with REYATAZ is not 
recommended (see section 4.4). 
OPIOIDS 
Buprenorphine, once daily, 
stable maintenance dose 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Methadone, stable maintenance 
dose 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Buprenorphine AUC: ↑67% 
Buprenorphine Cmax: ↑37% 
Buprenorphine Cmin: ↑69% 
Norbuprenorphine AUC: ↑105% 
Norbuprenorphine Cmax: ↑61% 
Norbuprenorphine Cmin: ↑101% 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
and UGT1A1 inhibition. 
Concentrations of atazanavir (when given 
with ritonavir) were not significantly 
affected. 
No significant effect on methadone 
concentrations was observed. Given that 
low dose ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) 
has been shown to have no significant 
effect on methadone concentrations, no 
interaction is expected if methadone is co-
administered with REYATAZ, based on 
these data. 
Co-administration with REYATAZ 
with ritonavir warrants clinical 
monitoring for sedation and 
cognitive effects. A dose reduction 
of buprenorphine may be 
considered. 
No dosage adjustment is necessary 
if methadone is co-administered 
with REYATAZ. 
PULMONARY ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION 
PDE5 Inhibitors 
Sildenafil 
Co-administration with REYATAZ may 
result in increased concentrations of the 
PDE5 inhibitor and an increase in PDE5-
inhibitor-associated adverse events. 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
A safe and effective dose in 
combination with REYATAZ has 
not been established for sildenafil 
when used to treat pulmonary 
arterial hypertension. Sildenafil, 
when used for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension, is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
SEDATIVES 
Benzodiazepines 
Midazolam 
Triazolam 
Interaction 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Midazolam and triazolam are extensively 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-
administration with REYATAZ may cause 
a large increase in the concentration of 
these benzodiazepines. No drug interaction 
study has been performed for the co-
administration of REYATAZ with 
benzodiazepines. Based on data for other 
CYP3A4 inhibitors, plasma concentrations 
of midazolam are expected to be 
significantly higher when midazolam is 
given orally. Data from concomitant use of 
parenteral midazolam with other protease 
inhibitors suggest a possible 3-4-fold 
increase in midazolam plasma levels. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ 
with triazolam or orally 
administered midazolam is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3), 
whereas caution should be used 
with co-administration of 
REYATAZ and parenteral 
midazolam. If REYATAZ is co-
administered with parenteral 
midazolam, it should be done in an 
intensive care unit (ICU) or similar 
setting which ensures close clinical 
monitoring and appropriate medical 
management in case of respiratory 
depression and/or prolonged 
sedation. Dosage adjustment for 
midazolam should be considered, 
especially if more than a single 
dose of midazolam is administered. 
 
 
In case of withdrawal of ritonavir from the recommended atazanavir-boosted regimen 
(see section 4.4) 
The same recommendations for drug interactions would apply except: 
 
that co-administration is not recommended with tenofovir, carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
phenobarbital, proton pump inhibitors, and buprenorphine. 
that co-administration with famotidine is not recommended but if required, atazanavir without 
ritonavir should be administered either 2 hours after famotidine or 12 hours before. No single 
dose of famotidine should exceed 20 mg, and the total daily dose of famotidine should not 
exceed 40 mg. 
the need to consider that 
 
co-administration of apixaban, dabigatran, or rivaroxaban and REYATAZ without 
ritonavir may affect apixaban, dabigatran, or rivaroxaban concentrations 
co-administration of voriconazole and REYATAZ without ritonavir may affect atazanavir 
concentrations 
co-administration of fluticasone and REYATAZ without ritonavir may increase 
fluticasone concentrations relative to fluticasone given alone 
if an oral contraceptive is administered with REYATAZ without ritonavir, it is 
recommended that the oral contraceptive contain no more than 30 μg of ethinyloestradiol 
no dose adjustment of lamotrigine is required 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
A moderate amount of data in pregnant women (between 300-1 000 pregnancy outcomes) indicate no 
malformative toxicity of atazanavir. Animal studies do not indicate reproductive toxicity 
(see section 5.3). The use of REYATAZ with ritonavir may be considered during pregnancy only if 
the potential benefit justifies the potential risk. 
In clinical trial AI424-182 REYATAZ/ritonavir (300/100 mg or 400/100 mg) in combination with 
zidovudine/lamivudine was administered to 41 pregnant women during the second or third trimester. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Six of 20 (30%) women on REYATAZ/ritonavir 300/100 mg and 13 of 21 (62%) women on 
REYATAZ/ritonavir 400/100 mg experienced grades 3 to 4 hyperbilirubinaemia. There were no cases 
of lactic acidosis observed in the clinical trial AI424-182. 
The study assessed 40 infants who received antiretroviral prophylactic treatment (which did not 
include REYATAZ) and were negative for HIV-1 DNA at the time of delivery and/or during the first 
6 months postpartum. Three of 20 infants (15%) born to women treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 
300/100 mg and four of 20 infants (20%) born to women treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 
400/100 mg experienced grade 3-4 bilirubin. There was no evidence of pathologic jaundice and six of 
40 infants in this study received phototherapy for a maximum of 4 days. There were no reported cases 
of kernicterus in neonates. 
For dosing recommendations see section 4.2 and for pharmacokinetic data see section 5.2. 
It is not known whether REYATAZ with ritonavir administered to the mother during pregnancy will 
exacerbate physiological hyperbilirubinaemia and lead to kernicterus in neonates and infants. In the 
prepartum period, additional monitoring should be considered. 
Breast-feeding 
Atazanavir has been detected in human milk. In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is 
recommended that women living with HIV do not breast-feed their infants. 
Fertility 
In a nonclinical fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, atazanavir altered oestrus 
cycling with no effects on mating or fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Patients should be informed that dizziness has been reported during treatment with regimens 
containing REYATAZ (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
REYATAZ has been evaluated for safety in combination therapy with other antiretroviral medicinal 
products in controlled clinical trials in 1,806 adult patients receiving REYATAZ 400 mg once daily 
(1,151 patients, 52 weeks median duration and 152 weeks maximum duration) or REYATAZ 300 mg 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (655 patients, 96 weeks median duration and 108 weeks maximum 
duration). 
Adverse reactions were consistent between patients who received REYATAZ 400 mg once daily and 
patients who received REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily, except that jaundice and 
elevated total bilirubin levels were reported more frequently with REYATAZ plus ritonavir. 
Among patients who received REYATAZ 400 mg once daily or REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 
100 mg once daily, the only adverse reactions of any severity reported very commonly with at least a 
possible relationship to regimens containing REYATAZ and one or more NRTIs were nausea (20%), 
diarrhoea (10%), and jaundice (13%). Among patients receiving REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 
100 mg, the frequency of jaundice was 19%. In the majority of cases, jaundice was reported within a 
few days to a few months after the initiation of treatment (see section 4.4). 
Chronic kidney disease in HIV-infected patients treated with atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, has 
been reported during postmarketing surveillance. A large prospective observational study has shown 
an association between an increased incidence of chronic kidney disease and cumulative exposure to 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
atazanavir/ritonavir-containing regimen in HIV-infected patients with an initially normal eGFR. This 
association was observed independently of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil. Regular monitoring of the 
renal function of patients should be maintained throughout the treatment duration (see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Assessment of adverse reactions for REYATAZ is based on safety data from clinical studies and post-
marketing experience. Frequency is defined using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very 
rare (< 1/10,000). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Immune system disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Eye disorders: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders: 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders: 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions: 
uncommon: hypersensitivity 
uncommon: weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia, appetite 
increased 
uncommon: depression, disorientation, anxiety, insomnia, sleep 
disorder, abnormal dream 
common: headache; 
uncommon: peripheral neuropathy, syncope, amnesia, 
dizziness, somnolence, dysgeusia 
common: ocular icterus 
uncommon: torsades de pointesa 
rare: QTc prolongationa, oedema, palpitation 
uncommon: hypertension 
uncommon: dyspnoea 
common: vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, nausea, 
dyspepsia; 
uncommon: pancreatitis, gastritis, abdominal distension, 
stomatitis aphthous, flatulence, dry mouth 
common: jaundice; 
uncommon: hepatitis, cholelithiasisa, cholestasisa; 
rare: hepatosplenomegaly, cholecystitisa 
common: rash; 
uncommon: erythemia multiformea,b, toxic skin eruptionsa,b, 
drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) 
syndromea,b, angioedemaa, urticaria, alopecia, pruritus; 
rare: Stevens-Johnson syndromea,b, vesiculobullous rash, 
eczema, vasodilatation 
uncommon: muscle atrophy, arthralgia, myalgia; 
rare: myopathy 
uncommon: nephrolithiasisa, haematuria, proteinuria, 
pollakiuria, interstitial nephritis, chronic kidney diseasea; 
rare: kidney pain 
uncommon: gynaecomastia 
common: fatigue; 
uncommon: chest pain, malaise, pyrexia, asthenia; 
rare: gait disturbance 
a These adverse reactions were identified through post-marketing surveillance, however, the frequencies were estimated from 
a statistical calculation based on the total number of patients exposed to REYATAZ in randomised controlled and other 
available clinical trials (n = 2 321). 
b See description of selected adverse reactions for more details. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4). 
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4). 
Metabolic parameters 
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy 
(see section 4.4). 
Rash and associated syndromes 
Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 3 weeks 
of starting therapy with REYATAZ. 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions, and drug rash with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome have been reported with the use of 
REYATAZ (see section 4.4). 
Laboratory abnormalities 
The most frequently reported laboratory abnormality in patients receiving regimens containing 
REYATAZ and one or more NRTIs was elevated total bilirubin reported predominantly as elevated 
indirect [unconjugated] bilirubin (87% Grade 1, 2, 3, or 4). Grade 3 or 4 elevation of total bilirubin 
was noted in 37% (6% Grade 4). Among experienced patients treated with REYATAZ 300 mg once 
daily with 100 mg ritonavir once daily for a median duration of 95 weeks, 53% had Grade 3-4 total 
bilirubin elevations. Among naïve patients treated with REYATAZ 300 mg once daily with 100 mg 
ritonavir once daily for a median duration of 96 weeks, 48% had Grade 3-4 total bilirubin elevations 
(see section 4.4). 
Other marked clinical laboratory abnormalities (Grade 3 or 4) reported in ≥ 2% of patients receiving 
regimens containing REYATAZ and one or more NRTIs included: elevated creatine kinase (7%), 
elevated alanine aminotransferase/serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (ALT/SGPT) (5%), low 
neutrophils (5%), elevated aspartate aminotransferase/serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 
(AST/SGOT) (3%), and elevated lipase (3%). 
Two percent of patients treated with REYATAZ experienced concurrent Grade 3-4 ALT/AST and 
Grade 3-4 total bilirubin elevations. 
Paediatric population 
In a clinical study AI424-020, paediatric patients 3 months to less than 18 years of age who received 
either the oral powder or capsule formulation had a mean duration of treatment with REYATAZ of 
115 weeks. The safety profile in this study was overall comparable to that seen in adults. Both 
asymptomatic first-degree (23%) and second-degree (1%) atrioventricular block were reported in 
paediatric patients. The most frequently reported laboratory abnormality in paediatric patients 
receiving REYATAZ was elevation of total bilirubin (≥ 2.6 times ULN, Grade 3-4) which occurred in 
45% of patients. 
In clinical studies AI424-397 and AI424-451, paediatric patients 3 months to less than 11 years of age 
had a mean duration of treatment with REYATAZ oral powder of 80 weeks. No deaths were reported. 
The safety profile in these studies was overall comparable to that seen in previous paediatric and adult 
studies. The most frequently reported laboratory abnormalities in paediatric patients receiving 
REYATAZ oral powder was elevation of total bilirubin (≥ 2.6 times ULN, Grade 3-4; 16%) and 
increased amylase (Grade 3-4; 33%), generally of non-pancreatic origin. Elevation in ALT levels were 
more frequently reported in paediatric patients in these studies than in adults. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other special populations 
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus 
Among 1,151 patients receiving atazanavir 400 mg once daily, 177 patients were co-infected with 
chronic hepatitis B or C, and among 655 patients receiving atazanavir 300 mg once daily with 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily, 97 patients were co-infected with chronic hepatitis B or C. Co-infected 
patients were more likely to have baseline hepatic transaminase elevations than those without chronic 
viral hepatitis. No differences in frequency of bilirubin elevations were observed between these 
patients and those without viral hepatitis. The frequency of treatment emergent hepatitis or 
transaminase elevations in co-infected patients was comparable between REYATAZ and comparator 
regimens (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Human experience of acute overdose with REYATAZ is limited. Single doses up to 1,200 mg have 
been taken by healthy volunteers without symptomatic untoward effects. At high doses that lead to 
high drug exposures, jaundice due to indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia (without associated 
liver function test changes) or PR interval prolongations may be observed (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Treatment of overdose with REYATAZ should consist of general supportive measures, including 
monitoring of vital signs and electrocardiogram (ECG), and observations of the patient's clinical 
status. If indicated, elimination of unabsorbed atazanavir should be achieved by emesis or gastric 
lavage. Administration of activated charcoal may also be used to aid removal of unabsorbed drug. 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with REYATAZ. Since atazanavir is extensively 
metabolised by the liver and is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be beneficial in significant 
removal of this medicinal product. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE08 
Mechanism of action 
Atazanavir is an azapeptide HIV-1 protease inhibitor (PI). The compound selectively inhibits the 
virus-specific processing of viral Gag-Pol proteins in HIV-1 infected cells, thus preventing formation 
of mature virions and infection of other cells. 
Antiviral activity in vitro: atazanavir exhibits anti-HIV-1 (including all clades tested) and anti-HIV-2 
activity in cell culture. 
Resistance 
Antiretroviral treatment naïve adult patients 
In clinical trials of antiretroviral treatment-naïve patients treated with unboosted atazanavir, the I50L 
substitution, sometimes in combination with an A71V change, is the signature resistance substitution 
for atazanavir. Resistance levels to atazanavir ranged from 3.5- to 29-fold without evidence of 
phenotypic cross resistance to other PIs. In clinical trials of antiretroviral treatment-naïve patients 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treated with boosted atazanavir, the I50L substitution did not emerge in any patient without baseline PI 
substitutions. The N88S substitution has been rarely observed in patients with virologic failure on 
atazanavir (with or without ritonavir). While it may contribute to decreased susceptibility to atazanavir 
when it occurs with other protease substitutions, in clinical studies N88S by itself does not always lead 
to phenotypic resistance to atazanavir or have a consistent impact on clinical efficacy. 
Table 3: 
De novo substitutions in treatment-naïve patients failing therapy with atazanavir 
+ ritonavir (Study 138, 96 weeks) 
Frequency 
> 20% 
10-20% 
a Number of patients with paired genotypes classified as virological failures (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/mL). 
de novo PI substitution (n = 26)a 
none 
none 
The M184I/V substitution emerged in 5/26 REYATAZ/ritonavir and 7/26 lopinavir/ritonavir virologic 
failure patients, respectively. 
Antiretroviral treatment experienced adult patients 
In antiretroviral treatment experienced patients from Studies 009, 043, and 045, 100 isolates from 
patients designated as virological failures on therapy that included either atazanavir, atazanavir + 
ritonavir, or atazanavir + saquinavir were determined to have developed resistance to atazanavir. Of 
the 60 isolates from patients treated with either atazanavir or atazanavir + ritonavir, 18 (30%) 
displayed the I50L phenotype previously described in naïve patients. 
Table 4: 
De novo substitutions in treatment experienced patients failing therapy with 
atazanavir + ritonavir (Study 045, 48 weeks) 
de novo PI substitution (n = 35)a,b 
Frequency 
M36, M46, I54, A71, V82 
> 20% 
10-20% 
L10, I15, K20, V32, E35, S37, F53, I62, G73, I84, L90 
a Number of patients with paired genotypes classified as virological failures (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/mL). 
b Ten patients had baseline phenotypic resistance to atazanavir + ritonavir (fold change [FC]> 5.2). FC susceptibility in cell 
culture relative to the wild-type reference was assayed using PhenoSenseTM (Monogram Biosciences, South San Francisco, 
California, USA) 
None of the de novo substitutions (see Table 4) are specific to atazanavir and may reflect re-
emergence of archived resistance on atazanavir + ritonavir in Study 045 treatment-experienced 
population. 
The resistance in antiretroviral treatment experienced patients mainly occurs by accumulation of the 
major and minor resistance substitutions described previously to be involved in protease inhibitor 
resistance. 
Clinical results 
In antiretroviral naïve adult patients 
Study 138 is an international randomised, open-label, multicenter, prospective trial of treatment-naïve 
patients comparing REYATAZ/ritonavir (300 mg/100 mg once daily) to lopinavir/ritonavir 
(400 mg/100 mg twice daily), each in combination with fixed-dose tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate/emtricitabine (300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). The REYATAZ/ritonavir arm showed 
similar (non-inferior) antiviral efficacy compared to the lopinavir/ritonavir arm, as assessed by the 
proportion of patients with HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL at Week 48 (Table 5). 
Analyses of data through 96 weeks of treatment demonstrated durability of antiviral activity (Table 5). 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: 
Efficacy Outcomes in Study 138a 
Parameter 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, % 
All patientsd 
Difference estimate 
[95% CI]d 
Per protocol analysise 
Difference estimatee 
[95% CI] 
REYATAZ/ritonavirb 
(300 mg/100 mg once daily) 
n = 440 
Lopinavir/ritonavirc (400 mg/100 mg 
twice daily) 
n = 443 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
78 
74 
76 
68 
Week 48: 1.7% [-3.8%, 7.1%] 
Week 96: 6.1% [0.3%, 12.0%] 
86 (n = 392f) 
91 (n = 352) 
89 (n = 372) 
89 (n = 331) 
Week 48: -3% [-7.6%, 1.5%] 
Week 96: 2.2% [-2.3%, 6.7%] 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, % by Baseline Characteristicd 
HIV RNA 
< 100,000 copies/mL 
≥ 100,000 copies/mL 
CD4 count 
< 50 cells/mm3 
50 to < 100 cells/mm3 
100 to < 200 cells/mm3 
≥ 200 cells/mm3 
82 (n = 217) 
74 (n = 223) 
78 (n = 58) 
76 (n = 45) 
75 (n = 106) 
80 (n = 222) 
75 (n = 217) 
74 (n = 223) 
78 (n = 58) 
71 (n = 45) 
71 (n = 106) 
76 (n = 222) 
HIV RNA Mean Change from Baseline, log10 copies/mL 
81 (n = 218) 
72 (n = 225) 
63 (n = 48) 
69 (n = 29) 
78 (n = 134) 
80 (n = 228) 
70 (n = 218) 
66 (n = 225) 
58 (n = 48) 
69 (n = 29) 
70 (n = 134) 
69 (n = 228) 
All patients 
-3.09 (n = 397) 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
203 (n = 370) 
All patients 
-3.21 (n = 360) 
-3.13 (n = 379) 
-3.19 (n = 340) 
268 (n = 336) 
219 (n = 363) 
290 (n = 317) 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 by Baseline Characteristic 
179 (n = 183) 
243 (n = 163) 
194 (n = 183) 
267 (n = 152) 
227 (n = 187) 
291 (n = 173) 
310 (n = 165) 
a Mean baseline CD4 cell count was 214 cells/mm3 (range 2 to 810 cells/mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV-1 RNA was 
4.94 log10 copies/mL (range 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/mL) 
b REYATAZ/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). 
c Lopinavir/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). 
d Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. 
e Per protocol analysis: Excluding non-completers and patients with major protocol deviations. 
f Number of patients evaluable. 
245 (n = 180) 
Data on withdrawal of ritonavir from atazanavir boosted regimen (see also section 4.4) 
Study 136 (INDUMA) 
In an open-label, randomised, comparative study following a 26- to 30-week induction phase with 
REYATAZ 300 mg + ritonavir 100 mg once daily and two NRTIs, unboosted REYATAZ 400 mg 
once daily and two NRTIs administered during a 48-week maintenance phase (n = 87) had similar 
antiviral efficacy compared with REYATAZ + ritonavir and two NRTIs (n = 85) in HIV-infected 
subjects with fully suppressed HIV replication, as assessed by the proportion of subjects with 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL: 78% of subjects on unboosted REYATAZ and two NRTIs compared with 
75% on REYATAZ + ritonavir and two NRTIs. 
Eleven subjects (13%) in the unboosted REYATAZ group and 6 (7%) in the REYATAZ + ritonavir 
group, had virologic rebound. Four subjects in the unboosted REYATAZ group and 2 in the 
REYATAZ + ritonavir group had HIV RNA > 500 copies/mL during the maintenance phase. No 
subject in either group showed emergence of protease inhibitor resistance. The M184V substitution in 
reverse transcriptase, which confers resistance to lamivudine and emtricitabine, was detected in 
2 subjects in the unboosted REYATAZ and 1 subject in the REYATAZ + ritonavir group. 
31 
HIV RNA 
< 100,000 copies/mL 
≥ 100,000 copies/mL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were fewer treatment discontinuations in the unboosted REYATAZ group (1 vs. 4 subjects in 
the REYATAZ + ritonavir group). There was less hyperbilirubinaemia and jaundice in the unboosted 
REYATAZ group compared with the REYATAZ + ritonavir group (18 and 28 subjects, respectively). 
In antiretroviral experienced adult patients 
Study 045 is a randomised, multicenter trial comparing REYATAZ/ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) 
and REYATAZ/saquinavir (400/1,200 mg once daily), to lopinavir + ritonavir (400/100 mg fixed-dose 
combination twice daily), each in combination with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (see sections 4.5 
and 4.8) and one NRTI, in patients with virologic failure on two or more prior regimens containing at 
least one PI, NRTI, and NNRTI. For randomised patients, the mean time of prior antiretroviral 
exposure was 138 weeks for PIs, 281 weeks for NRTIs, and 85 weeks for NNRTIs. At baseline, 34% 
of patients were receiving a PI and 60% were receiving an NNRTI. Fifteen of 120 (13%) patients in 
the REYATAZ + ritonavir treatment arm and 17 of 123 (14%) patients in the lopinavir + ritonavir arm 
had four or more of the PI substitutions L10, M46, I54, V82, I84, and L90. Thirty-two percent of 
patients in the study had a viral strain with fewer than two NRTI substitutions. 
The primary endpoint was the time-averaged difference in change from baseline in HIV RNA through 
48 weeks (Table 6). 
Table 6: 
Efficacy Outcomes at Week 48a and at Week 96 (Study 045) 
Parameter 
ATV/RTVb (300 mg/100 mg 
once daily) 
n = 120 
LPV/RTVc (400 mg/100 mg 
twice daily) 
n = 123 
Time-averaged difference 
ATV/RTV-LPV/RTV 
[97.5% CId] 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
HIV RNA Mean Change from Baseline, log10 copies/mL 
All patients 
-1.93 (n = 90e) 
-2.29 
(n = 64) 
-1.87 
(n = 99) 
-2.08 
(n = 65) 
0.13 
[-0.12, 0.39] 
0.14 
[-0.13, 0.41] 
NA 
32 (38/120) 
42 (52/123) 
35 (41/118) 
36 (43/120) 
0-2 
3 
≥ 4 
48 (26/54) 
33 (5/15) 
20 (10/49) 
56 (32/57) 
38 (6/16) 
28 (14/50) 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, %f (responder/evaluable) 
All patients 
NA 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL by select baseline PI substitutions,f, g % (responder/evaluable) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
41 (26/63) 
44 (28/63) 
9 (1/11) 
18 (2/11) 
24 (11/45) 
27 (12/45) 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
All patients 
122 (n = 60) 
110 (n = 83) 
a The mean baseline CD4 cell count was 337 cells/mm3 (range: 14 to 1,543 cells/mm3) and the mean baseline plasma HIV-1 
RNA level was 4.4 log10 copies/mL (range: 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/mL). 
b ATV/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). 
c LPV/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). 
d Confidence interval. 
e Number of patients evaluable. 
f Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. Responders on LPV/RTV who completed treatment 
before Week 96 are excluded from Week 96 analysis. The proportion of patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL were 53% 
and 43% for ATV/RTV and 54% and 46% for LPV/RTV at Weeks 48 and 96 respectively. 
g Select substitutions include any change at positions L10, K20, L24, V32, L33, M36, M46, G48, I50, I54, L63, A71, G73, 
V82, I84, and L90 (0-2, 3, 4 or more) at baseline. 
NA = not applicable. 
NA 
NA 
NA 
121 (n = 94) 
154 (n = 60) 
NA 
NA 
Through 48 weeks of treatment, the mean changes from baseline in HIV RNA levels for REYATAZ + 
ritonavir and lopinavir + ritonavir were similar (non-inferior). Consistent results were obtained with 
the last observation carried forward method of analysis (time-averaged difference of 0.11, 97.5% 
confidence interval [-0.15, 0.36]). By as-treated analysis, excluding missing values, the proportions of 
patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL (< 50 copies/mL) in the REYATAZ + ritonavir arm and the 
lopinavir + ritonavir arm were 55% (40%) and 56% (46%), respectively. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through 96 weeks of treatment, mean HIV RNA changes from baseline for REYATAZ + ritonavir 
and lopinavir + ritonavir met criteria for non-inferiority based on observed cases. Consistent results 
were obtained with the last observation carried forward method of analysis. By as-treated analysis, 
excluding missing values, the proportions of patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL 
(< 50 copies/mL) for REYATAZ + ritonavir were 84% (72%) and for lopinavir + ritonavir were 82% 
(72%). It is important to note that at time of the 96-week analysis, 48% of patients overall remained on 
study. 
REYATAZ + saquinavir was shown to be inferior to lopinavir + ritonavir. 
Paediatric population 
Assessment of the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and efficacy of REYATAZ is based on data 
from the open-label, multicenter clinical trial AI424-020 conducted in patients from 3 months to 
21 years of age. Overall in this study, 182 paediatric patients (81 antiretroviral-naïve and 
101 antiretroviral-experienced) received once daily REYATAZ (capsule or powder formulation), with 
or without ritonavir, in combination with two NRTIs. 
The clinical data derived from this study are inadequate to support the use of atazanavir (with or 
without ritonavir) in children below 6 years of age. 
Efficacy data observed in the 41 paediatric patients aged 6 years to less than 18 years that received 
REYATAZ capsules with ritonavir are presented in Table 7. For treatment-naïve paediatric patients, 
the mean baseline CD4 cell count was 344 cells/mm3 (range: 2 to 800 cells/mm3) and mean baseline 
plasma HIV-1 RNA was 4.67 log10 copies/mL (range: 3.70 to 5.00 log10 copies/mL). For treatment-
experienced paediatric patients, the mean baseline CD4 cell count was 522 cells/mm3 (range: 100 to 
1157 cells/mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV-1 RNA was 4.09 log10 copies/mL (range: 3.28 to 
5.00 log10 copies/mL). 
Table 7: 
Efficacy Outcomes (paediatric patients 6 years to less than 18 years of age) at 
Week 48 (Study AI424-020) 
Parameter 
Treatment-Naïve 
REYATAZ 
Capsules/ritonavir 
(300 mg/100 mg once 
daily) 
n = 16 
Treatment-Experienced 
REYATAZ 
Capsules/ritonavir 
(300 mg/100 mg once 
daily) 
n = 25 
24 (6/25) 
81 (13/16) 
88 (14/16) 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, %a 
All patients 
HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL, %a 
All patients 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
All patients 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL by select baseline PI substitutions,c % (responder/evaluabled) 
0-2 
3 
≥ 4 
a Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. 
b Number of patients evaluable. 
c PI major L24I, D30N, V32I, L33F, M46IL, I47AV, G48V, I50LV, F53LY,I54ALMSTV, L76V, V82AFLST, I84V, 
N88DS, L90M; PI minor: L10CFIRV, V11I, E35G, K43T, Q58E, A71ILTV, G73ACST, T74P, N83D, L89V. 
d Includes patients with baseline resistance data. 
NA = not applicable. 
27 (4/15) 
- 
0 (0/3) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
229 (n = 14b) 
293 (n = 14b) 
32 (8/25) 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of atazanavir were evaluated in healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-infected 
patients; significant differences were observed between the two groups. The pharmacokinetics of 
atazanavir exhibit a non-linear disposition. 
Absorption: in HIV-infected patients (n = 33, combined studies), multiple dosing of REYATAZ 
300 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food produced a geometric mean (CV%) for 
atazanavir, Cmax of 4466 (42%) ng/mL, with time to Cmax of approximately 2.5 hours. The geometric 
mean (CV%) for atazanavir Cmin and AUC was 654 (76%) ng/mL and 44185 (51%) ng•h/mL, 
respectively. 
In HIV-infected patients (n = 13), multiple dosing of REYATAZ 400 mg (without ritonavir) 
once daily with food produced a geometric mean (CV%) for atazanavir Cmax of 2298 (71) ng/mL, with 
time to Cmax of approximately 2.0 hours. The geometric mean (CV%) for atazanavir Cmin and AUC 
were 120 (109) ng/mL and 14874 (91) ng•h/mL, respectively. 
Food effect: co-administration of REYATAZ and ritonavir with food optimises the bioavailability of 
atazanavir. Co-administration of a single 300-mg dose of REYATAZ and 100-mg dose of ritonavir 
with a light meal resulted in a 33% increase in the AUC and a 40% increase in both the Cmax and the 
24 hour concentration of atazanavir relative to the fasting state. Co-administration with a high-fat meal 
did not affect the AUC of atazanavir relative to fasting conditions and the Cmax was within 11% of 
fasting values. The 24-hour concentration following a high-fat meal was increased by approximately 
33% due to delayed absorption; the median Tmax increased from 2.0 to 5.0 hours. Administration of 
REYATAZ with ritonavir with either a light or a high fat meal decreased the coefficient of variation of 
AUC and Cmax by approximately 25% compared to the fasting state. To enhance bioavailability and 
minimise variability, REYATAZ is to be taken with food. 
Distribution: atazanavir was approximately 86% bound to human serum proteins over a concentration 
range of 100 to 10,000 ng/mL. Atazanavir binds to both alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) and albumin 
to a similar extent (89% and 86%, respectively, at 1,000 ng/mL). In a multiple-dose study in HIV-
infected patients dosed with 400-mg of atazanavir once daily with a light meal for 12 weeks, 
atazanavir was detected in the cerebrospinal fluid and semen. 
Metabolism: studies in humans and in vitro studies using human liver microsomes have demonstrated 
that atazanavir is principally metabolised by CYP3A4 isozyme to oxygenated metabolites. Metabolites 
are then excreted in the bile as either free or glucuronidated metabolites. Additional minor metabolic 
pathways consist of N-dealkylation and hydrolysis. Two minor metabolites of atazanavir in plasma 
have been characterised. Neither metabolite demonstrated in vitro antiviral activity. 
Elimination: following a single 400 mg dose of 14C-atazanavir, 79% and 13% of the total radioactivity 
was recovered in the faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged drug accounted for approximately 
20% and 7% of the administered dose in the faeces and urine, respectively. Mean urinary excretion of 
unchanged drug was 7% following 2 weeks of dosing at 800 mg once daily. In HIV-infected adult 
patients (n = 33, combined studies) the mean half-life within a dosing interval for atazanavir was 
12 hours at steady state following a dose of 300 mg daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with a light 
meal. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment: in healthy subjects, the renal elimination of unchanged atazanavir was 
approximately 7% of the administered dose. There are no pharmacokinetic data available for 
REYATAZ with ritonavir in patients with renal insufficiency. REYATAZ (without ritonavir) has been 
studied in adult patients with severe renal impairment (n = 20), including those on haemodialysis, at 
multiple doses of 400 mg once daily. Although this study presented some limitations (i.e., unbound 
drug concentrations not studied), results suggested that the atazanavir pharmacokinetic parameters 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were decreased by 30% to 50% in patients undergoing haemodialysis compared to patients with 
normal renal function. The mechanism of this decrease is unknown. (See sections 4.2 and 4.4.) 
Hepatic impairment: atazanavir is metabolised and eliminated primarily by the liver. REYATAZ 
(without ritonavir) has been studied in adult subjects with moderate-to-severe hepatic impairment 
(14 Child-Pugh Class B and 2 Child-Pugh Class C subjects) after a single 400-mg dose. The mean 
AUC(0-∞) was 42% greater in subjects with impaired hepatic function than in healthy subjects. The 
mean half-life of atazanavir in hepatically impaired subjects was 12.1 hours compared to 6.4 hours in 
healthy subjects. The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir after a 
300 mg dose with ritonavir have not been studied. Concentrations of atazanavir with or without 
ritonavir are expected to be increased in patients with moderately or severely impaired hepatic 
function (see sections 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4). 
Age/Gender: a study of the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir was performed in 59 healthy male and 
female subjects (29 young, 30 elderly). There were no clinically important pharmacokinetic 
differences based on age or gender. 
Race: a population pharmacokinetic analysis of samples from Phase II clinical trials indicated no 
effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir. 
Pregnancy: 
The pharmacokinetic data from HIV-infected pregnant women receiving REYATAZ capsules with 
ritonavir are presented in Table 8. 
Table 8: 
Steady-State Pharmacokinetics of Atazanavir with ritonavir in HIV-Infected 
Pregnant Women in the Fed State 
Pharmacokinetic Parameter 
Cmax ng/mL 
Geometric mean (CV%) 
AUC ng•h/mL 
Geometric mean (CV%) 
Cmin ng/mLb 
Geometric mean (CV%) 
2nd Trimester 
(n = 9) 
3 729.09 
(39) 
34 399.1 
(37) 
663.78 
(36) 
atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg 
3rd Trimester 
(n = 20) 
3 291.46 
(48) 
34 251.5 
(43) 
668.48 
(50) 
postpartuma 
(n = 36) 
5 649.10 
(31) 
60 532.7 
(33) 
1 420.64 
(47) 
a Atazanavir peak concentrations and AUCs were found to be approximately 26-40% higher during the postpartum period 
(4-12 weeks) than those observed historically in HIV-infected, non-pregnant patients. Atazanavir plasma trough 
concentrations were approximately 2-fold higher during the postpartum period when compared to those observed historically 
in HIV-infected non-pregnant patients. 
b Cmin is concentration 24 hours post-dose. 
Paediatric population 
There is a trend toward a higher clearance in younger children when normalised for body weight. As a 
result, greater peak to trough ratios are observed, however at recommended doses, geometric mean 
atazanavir exposures (Cmin, Cmax, and AUC) in paediatric patients are expected to be similar to those 
observed in adults. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies, conducted in mice, rats, and dogs, atazanavir-related findings were 
generally confined to the liver and included generally minimal to mild increases in serum bilirubin and 
liver enzymes, hepatocellular vacuolation and hypertrophy, and, in female mice only, hepatic single-
cell necrosis. Systemic exposures of atazanavir in mice (males), rats, and dogs at doses associated with 
hepatic changes were at least equal to that observed in humans given 400 mg once daily. In female 
mice, atazanavir exposure at a dose that produced single-cell necrosis was 12 times the exposure in 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
humans given 400 mg once daily. Serum cholesterol and glucose were minimally to mildly increased 
in rats but not in mice or dogs. 
During in vitro studies, cloned human cardiac potassium channel (hERG), was inhibited by 15% at a 
concentration (30 μM) of atazanavir corresponding to 30-fold the free drug concentration at Cmax in 
humans. Similar concentrations of atazanavir increased by 13% the action potential duration (APD90) 
in rabbit Purkinje fibres study. Electrocardiographic changes (sinus bradycardia, prolongation of PR 
interval, prolongation of QT interval, and prolongation of QRS complex) were observed only in an 
initial 2-week oral toxicity study performed in dogs. Subsequent 9-month oral toxicity studies in dogs 
showed no drug-related electrocardiographic changes. The clinical relevance of these non-clinical data 
is unknown. Potential cardiac effects of this product in humans cannot be ruled out (see sections 4.4 
and 4.8). The potential for PR prolongation should be considered in cases of overdose 
(see section 4.9). 
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, atazanavir altered oestrus cycling with no 
effects on mating or fertility. No teratogenic effects were observed in rats or rabbits at maternally toxic 
doses. In pregnant rabbits, gross lesions of the stomach and intestines were observed in dead or 
moribund does at maternal doses 2 and 4 times the highest dose administered in the definitive embryo-
development study. In the pre- and postnatal development assessment in rats, atazanavir produced a 
transient reduction in body weight in the offspring at a maternally toxic dose. Systemic exposure to 
atazanavir at doses that resulted in maternal toxicity was at least equal to or slightly greater than that 
observed in humans given 400 mg once daily. 
Atazanavir was negative in an Ames reverse-mutation assay but did induce chromosomal aberrations 
in vitro in both the absence and presence of metabolic activation. In in vivo studies in rats, atazanavir 
did not induce micronuclei in bone marrow, DNA damage in duodenum (comet assay), or unscheduled 
DNA repair in liver at plasma and tissue concentrations exceeding those that were clastogenic in vitro. 
In long-term carcinogenicity studies of atazanavir in mice and rats, an increased incidence of benign 
hepatic adenomas was seen in female mice only. The increased incidence of benign hepatic adenomas 
in female mice was likely secondary to cytotoxic liver changes manifested by single-cell necrosis and 
is considered to have no relevance for humans at intended therapeutic exposures. There were no 
tumorigenic findings in male mice or in rats. 
Atazanavir increased opacity of bovine corneas in an in vitro ocular irritation study, indicating it may 
be an ocular irritant upon direct contact with the eye. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules 
Capsule contents: crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, and magnesium stearate 
Capsule shells: gelatin, indigocarmin (E132), and titanium dioxide (E171) 
Blue ink containing: shellac, propylene glycol, ammonium hydroxide, and indigocarmin (E132) 
White ink containing: shellac, titanium dioxide (E171), ammonium hydroxide, propylene glycol, and 
simethicone 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules 
Capsule contents: crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, and magnesium stearate 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capsule shells: gelatin, indigocarmin (E132), and titanium dioxide (E171) 
Blue ink containing: shellac, propylene glycol, ammonium hydroxide, and indigocarmin (E132) 
White ink containing: shellac, titanium dioxide (E171), ammonium hydroxide, propylene glycol, and 
simethicone 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules 
Capsule contents: crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, and magnesium stearate 
Capsule shells: gelatin, indigocarmin (E132), and titanium dioxide (E171) 
White ink containing: shellac, titanium dioxide (E171), ammonium hydroxide, propylene glycol, and 
simethicone 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules 
Capsule contents: crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, and magnesium stearate 
Capsule shells: gelatin, red iron oxide, black iron oxide, yellow iron oxide, indigocarmin (E132), and 
titanium dioxide (E171) 
White ink containing: shellac, titanium dioxide (E171), ammonium hydroxide, propylene glycol, and 
simethicone 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules 
Each carton contains one high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle closed with child-resistant 
polypropylene closure. Each bottle contains 60 hard capsules. 
Each carton contains 60 x 1 capsules; 10 blister cards of 6 x 1 capsules each in Alu/Alu perforated unit 
dose blisters. 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules 
Each carton contains one high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle closed with child-resistant 
polypropylene closure. Each bottle contains 60 hard capsules. 
Each carton contains 60 x 1 capsules; 10 blister cards of 6 x 1 capsules each in Alu/Alu perforated unit 
dose blisters. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules 
Each carton contains one high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle or three high-density polyethylene 
(HDPE) bottles closed with child-resistant polypropylene closure. Each bottle contains 60 hard 
capsules. 
Each carton contains 60 x 1 capsules; 10 blister cards of 6 x 1 capsules each in Alu/Alu perforated unit 
dose blisters. 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules 
Each carton contains one high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle or three high-density polyethylene 
(HDPE) bottles closed with child-resistant polypropylene closure. Each bottle contains 30 hard 
capsules. 
Each carton contains 30 x 1 capsules; 5 blister cards of 6 x 1 capsules each in Alu/Alu perforated unit 
dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/03/267/001-006; 008-011 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 02 March 2004 
Date of latest renewal: 06 February 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
{MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 50 mg oral powder 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each sachet of 1.5 g oral powder contains 50 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
Excipient with known effect: 63 mg of aspartame; 1 305.15 mg of sucrose per sachet (1.5 g oral 
powder). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral powder 
Off-white to pale yellow powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
REYATAZ oral powder, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is indicated in combination with 
other antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of HIV-1-infected paediatric patients at least 
3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg (see section 4.2). 
Based on available virological and clinical data from adult patients, no benefit is expected in patients 
with strains resistant to multiple protease inhibitors (≥ 4 PI mutations). The choice of REYATAZ in 
treatment experienced adult and paediatric patients should be based on individual viral resistance 
testing and the patient’s treatment history (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
Posology 
Paediatric patients (at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg) 
The doses of atazanavir oral powder and ritonavir for paediatric patients are based on body weight as 
shown in Table 1. REYATAZ oral powder must be taken with ritonavir and has to be taken with food. 
Table 1: 
Dose of REYATAZ oral powder with ritonavir for paediatric patientsa (at least 
3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg) 
REYATAZ once daily dose 
200 mg (4 sachetsb) 
250 mg (5 sachetsb) 
300 mg (6 sachetsb) 
Body weight (kg) 
at least 5 to less than 15 
at least 15 to less than 35 
at least 35 
a The same recommendations regarding the timing and maximum doses of concomitant proton pump inhibitors and H2-
receptor antagonists in adults also apply to paediatric patients (see section 4.5). 
b Each sachet contains 50 mg of atazanavir. 
c Ritonavir oral solution. 
d Ritonavir oral solution or capsule/tablet. 
ritonavir once daily dose 
80 mgc 
80 mgc 
100 mgd 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ capsules are available for paediatric patients at least 6 years of age who weigh at least 
15 kg and who are able to swallow capsules (see Summary of Product Characteristics for REYATAZ 
capsules). Switching from REYATAZ oral powder to REYATAZ capsules is encouraged as soon as 
patients are able to consistently swallow capsules. 
When transitioning between formulations, a change in dose may be needed. Consult the dosing table 
for the specific formulation (see Summary of Product Characteristics for REYATAZ capsules). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dosage adjustment is needed. REYATAZ with ritonavir is not recommended in patients 
undergoing haemodialysis (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
REYATAZ with ritonavir has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. REYATAZ with 
ritonavir should be used with caution in patients with mild hepatic impairment. REYATAZ must not 
be used in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (see sections 4.3, 4.4, and 5.2). 
Pregnancy and Postpartum 
During the second and third trimesters of pregnancy: 
REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg may not provide sufficient exposure to atazanavir, 
especially when the activity of atazanavir or the whole regimen may be compromised due to drug 
resistance. Since there are limited data available and due to inter-patient variability during pregnancy, 
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring (TDM) may be considered to ensure adequate exposure. 
The risk of a further decrease in atazanavir exposure is expected when atazanavir is given with 
medicinal products known to reduce its exposure (e.g., tenofovir disoproxil or H2-receptor 
antagonists). 
 
If tenofovir disoproxil or an H2-receptor antagonist is needed, a dose increase to REYATAZ 
400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg with TDM may be considered (see sections 4.6 and 5.2). 
It is not recommended to use REYATAZ with ritonavir for pregnant patients who are receiving 
both tenofovir disoproxil and an H2-receptor antagonist. 
 
During postpartum: 
Following a possible decrease in atazanavir exposure during the second and third trimester, atazanavir 
exposures might increase during the first two months after delivery (see section 5.2). Therefore, 
postpartum patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactions. 
 
During this time, postpartum patients should follow the same dose recommendation as for non-
pregnant patients, including those for co-administration of medicinal products known to affect 
atazanavir exposure (see section 4.5). 
Paediatric patients (less than 3 months of age) 
REYATAZ has not been studied in children less than 3 months of age and is not recommended 
because of the potential risk of kernicterus. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
REYATAZ oral powder should be taken/given with food (e.g., applesauce or yogurt) or drinks (e.g., 
milk, infant formula, or water) for infants who can drink from a cup. For young infants (less than 
6 months) who cannot eat solid food or drink from a cup, REYATAZ oral powder should be mixed 
with infant formula and given using an oral syringe, which can be obtained from a pharmacist. 
Administration of REYATAZ and infant formula using an infant bottle is not recommended because 
the full dose may not be delivered. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For details on preparation and administration of the REYATAZ oral powder and Instructions for Use, 
see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Patients with moderate to severe hepatic insufficiency (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Co-administration with simvastatin or lovastatin (see section 4.5). 
Combination of rifampicin with concomitant low-dose ritonavir (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration of the PDE5 inhibitor sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH) only (see section 4.5). For co-administration of sildenafil for the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction see sections 4.4 and 4.5. 
Co-administration with medicinal products that are substrates of the CYP3A4 isoform of cytochrome 
P450 and have narrow therapeutic windows (e.g., quetiapine, alfuzosin, astemizole, terfenadine, 
cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, lurasidone, bepridil, triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for 
caution on parenterally administered midazolam, see section 4.5), lomitapide and ergot alkaloids, 
particularly, ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine) (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose 
combination (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with products containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with apalutamide (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Co-administration of REYATAZ with ritonavir at doses greater than 100 mg once daily has not been 
clinically evaluated. The use of higher ritonavir doses may alter the safety profile of atazanavir 
(cardiac effects, hyperbilirubinaemia) and therefore is not recommended. Only when atazanavir with 
ritonavir is co-administered with efavirenz, a dose increase of ritonavir to 200 mg once daily could be 
considered. In this instance, close clinical monitoring is warranted (see Interaction with other 
Medicinal Products below). 
Patients with coexisting conditions 
Hepatic impairment 
Atazanavir is primarily hepatically metabolised and increased plasma concentrations were observed in 
patients with hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). The safety and efficacy of REYATAZ has 
not been established in patients with significant underlying liver disorders. Patients with chronic 
hepatitis B or C and treated with combination antiretroviral therapy are at an increased risk for severe 
and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B 
or C, please refer also to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for these medicinal products 
(see section 4.8). 
Patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis, have an increased 
frequency of liver function abnormalities during combination antiretroviral therapy and should be 
monitored according to standard practice. If there is evidence of worsening liver disease in such 
patients, interruption or discontinuation of treatment must be considered. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with renal impairment. However, REYATAZ with 
ritonavir is not recommended in patients undergoing haemodialysis (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
QT prolongation 
Dose-related asymptomatic prolongations in PR interval with REYATAZ have been observed in 
clinical studies. Caution should be used with medicinal products known to induce PR prolongations. In 
patients with pre-existing conduction problems (second degree or higher atrioventricular or complex 
bundle-branch block), REYATAZ should be used with caution and only if the benefits exceed the risk 
(see section 5.1). Particular caution should be used when prescribing REYATAZ in association with 
medicinal products which have the potential to increase the QT interval and/or in patients with pre-
existing risk factors (bradycardia, long congenital QT, electrolyte imbalances (see sections 4.8 
and 5.3). 
Haemophiliac patients 
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and 
haemarthroses, in type A and B haemophiliac patients treated with protease inhibitors. In some 
patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with 
protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal 
relationship has been suggested, although the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. 
Haemophiliac patients should therefore be made aware of the possibility of increased bleeding. 
Weight and metabolic parameters 
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to the disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate. 
In clinical studies, REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir) has been shown to induce dyslipidaemia to a 
lesser extent than comparators. 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Reversible elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyl 
transferase (UGT) have occurred in patients receiving REYATAZ (see section 4.8). Hepatic 
transaminase elevations that occur with elevated bilirubin in patients receiving REYATAZ should be 
evaluated for alternative aetiologies. Alternative antiretroviral therapy to REYATAZ may be 
considered if jaundice or scleral icterus is unacceptable to a patient. Dose reduction of atazanavir is not 
recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. 
Indinavir is also associated with indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia due to inhibition of 
UGT. Combinations of REYATAZ and indinavir have not been studied and co-administration of these 
medicinal products is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Cholelithiasis 
Cholelithiasis has been reported in patients receiving REYATAZ (see section 4.8). Some patients 
required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. If signs or symptoms 
of cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be considered. 
Chronic kidney disease 
Chronic kidney disease in HIV-infected patients treated with atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, has 
been reported during postmarketing surveillance. A large prospective observational study has shown 
an association between an increased incidence of chronic kidney disease and cumulative exposure to 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
atazanavir/ritonavir-containing regimen in HIV-infected patients with an initially normal eGFR. This 
association was observed independently of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil. Regular monitoring of the 
renal function of patients should be maintained throughout the treatment duration (see section 4.8). 
Nephrolithiasis 
Nephrolithiasis has been reported in patients receiving REYATAZ (see section 4.8). Some patients 
required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. In some cases, 
nephrolithiasis has been associated with acute renal failure or renal insufficiency. If signs or symptoms 
of nephrolithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be considered. 
Immune reactivation syndrome 
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of institution of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first few weeks or months of initiation of CART. 
Relevant examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections, 
and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. Any inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and 
treatment instituted when necessary. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease and autoimmune 
hepatitis) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported 
time to onset is more variable and these events can occurs many months after initiation of treatment. 
Osteonecrosis 
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement. 
Rash and associated syndromes 
Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 3 weeks 
of starting therapy with REYATAZ. 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions and drug rash with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome have been reported in patients receiving 
REYATAZ. Patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin 
reactions. REYATAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. 
The best results in managing these events come from early diagnosis and immediate interruption of 
any suspect medicines. If the patient has developed SJS or DRESS associated with the use of 
REYATAZ, REYATAZ may not be restarted. 
Interactions with other medicinal products 
The combination of REYATAZ with atorvastatin is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration of REYATAZ with nevirapine or efavirenz is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
If the co-administration of REYATAZ with an NNRTI is required, an increase in the dose of both 
REYATAZ and ritonavir to 400 mg and 200 mg, respectively, in combination with efavirenz could be 
considered with close clinical monitoring. 
Atazanavir is metabolised principally by CYP3A4. Co-administration of REYATAZ with ritonavir 
and medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 is not recommended (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PDE5-inhibitors used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction: particular caution should be used when 
prescribing PDE5 inhibitors (sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil) for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction in patients receiving REYATAZ with concomitant low-dose ritonavir. Co-administration 
of REYATAZ with these medicinal products is expected to substantially increase their concentrations 
and may result in PDE5-associated adverse reactions such as hypotension, visual changes, and 
priapism (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration of voriconazole and REYATAZ with ritonavir is not recommended, unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk justifies the use of voriconazole. 
In the majority of patients, a reduction in both voriconazole and atazanavir exposures are expected. In 
a small number of patients without a functional CYP2C19 allele, significantly increased voriconazole 
exposures are expected (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of REYATAZ/ritonavir and fluticasone or other glucocorticoids that are metabolised 
by CYP3A4 is not recommended unless the potential benefit of treatment outweighs the risk of 
systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression 
(see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of salmeterol and REYATAZ/ritonavir may result in increased cardiovascular 
adverse events associated with salmeterol. Co-administration of salmeterol and REYATAZ is not 
recommended (see section 4.5). 
The absorption of atazanavir may be reduced in situations where gastric pH is increased irrespective of 
cause. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended (see section 4.5). If 
the combination of REYATAZ with a proton pump inhibitor is judged unavoidable, close clinical 
monitoring is recommended in combination with an increase in the dose of REYATAZ to 400 mg with 
100 mg of ritonavir; doses of proton pump inhibitors comparable to omeprazole 20 mg should not be 
exceeded. 
Co-administration of REYATAZ/ritonavir with other hormonal contraceptives or oral contraceptives 
containing progestogens other than norgestimate has not been studied, and therefore should be avoided 
(see section 4.5). 
Paediatric population 
Safety 
Asymptomatic PR interval prolongation was more frequent in paediatric patients than adults. 
Asymptomatic first- and second-degree AV block was reported in paediatric patients (see section 4.8). 
Caution should be used with medicinal products known to induce PR prolongations. In paediatric 
patients with pre-existing conduction problems (second degree or higher atrioventricular or complex 
bundle-branch block), REYATAZ should be used with caution and only if the benefits exceed the risk. 
Cardiac monitoring is recommended based on the presence of clinical findings (e.g., bradycardia). 
Efficacy 
Atazanavir/ritonavir is not effective in viral strains harbouring multiple mutations of resistance. 
Excipients 
Phenylketonuria 
REYATAZ oral powder contains aspartame as a sweetening agent. Aspartame provides a source of 
phenylalanine and, therefore, may not be suitable for persons with phenylketonuria. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diabetic population 
REYATAZ oral powder contains 1 305.15 mg of sucrose per sachet. For the recommended paediatric 
dosage, REYATAZ oral powder contains 3 915.45 mg sucrose per 150 mg atazanavir, 5 220.60 mg 
sucrose per 200 mg atazanavir, 6 525.75 mg sucrose per 250 mg atazanavir, and 7 830.90 mg sucrose 
per 300 mg atazanavir. This should be taken into account in patients with diabetes mellitus. Patients 
with rare hereditary problems of fructose intolerance, glucose galactose malabsorption, or sucrase 
isomaltase insufficiency should not take this medicine. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
When REYATAZ and ritonavir are co-administered, the metabolic drug interaction profile for 
ritonavir may predominate because ritonavir is a more potent CYP3A4 inhibitor than atazanavir. The 
Summary of Product Characteristics for ritonavir must be consulted before initiation of therapy with 
REYATAZ and ritonavir. 
Atazanavir is metabolised in the liver through CYP3A4. It inhibits CYP3A4. Therefore, REYATAZ 
with ritonavir is contraindicated with medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a 
narrow therapeutic index: quetiapine, lurasidone, alfuzosin, astemizole, terfenadine, cisapride, 
pimozide, quinidine, bepridil, triazolam, orally administered midazolam, lomitapide, and ergot 
alkaloids, particularly ergotamine and dihydroergotamine (see section 4.3). Co-administration of 
REYATAZ with grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose 
combination is contraindicated because of the increase in grazoprevir and elbasvir plasma 
concentrations and potential for the increase in risk of ALT elevations associated with increased 
grazoprevir concentrations (see section 4.3). Co-administration of REYATAZ with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination is contraindicated because of the potential increase in 
the risk of ALT elevations due to a significant increase in glecapreir and pibrentasvir plasma 
concentrations (see section 4.3). 
Other interactions 
Interactions between atazanavir/ritonavir and protease inhibitors, antiretroviral agents other than 
protease inhibitors, and other non-antiretroviral medicinal products are listed in the table below 
(increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”). If available, 90% confidence 
intervals (CI) are shown in parentheses. The studies presented in Table 2 were conducted in healthy 
subjects unless otherwise noted. Of importance, many studies were conducted with unboosted 
atazanavir, which is not the approved regimen of atazanavir. 
Table 2: 
Interactions between REYATAZ and other medicinal products 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ANTI-HCV AGENTS 
Grazoprevir 200 mg once 
daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Interaction 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑43% (↑30% ↑57%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑12% (↑1% ↑24%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑23% (↑13% ↑134%) 
Grazoprevir AUC: ↑958% (↑678% 
↑1 339%) 
Grazoprevir Cmax: ↑524% (↑342% ↑781%) 
Grazoprevir Cmin: ↑1 064% (↑696% 
↑1 602%) 
Grazoprevir concentrations were greatly 
increased when co-administered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ and 
elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated because of a 
significant increase in 
grazoprevir plasma 
concentrations and an 
associated potential increase in 
the risk of ALT elevations 
(see section 4.3). 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Elbasvir 50 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Sofosbuvir 
400 mg/velpatasvir 
100 mg/voxilaprevir 100 mg 
single dose* 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily) 
Glecaprevir 
300 mg/pibrentasvir 120 mg 
once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once daily*) 
ANTIPLATELETS 
Ticagrelor 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑7% (↓2% ↑17%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑2% (↓4% ↑8%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑15% (↑2% ↑29%) 
Elbasvir AUC: ↑376% (↑307% ↑456%) 
Elbasvir Cmax: ↑315% (↑246% ↑397%) 
Elbasvir Cmin: ↑545% (↑451% ↑654%) 
Elbasvir concentrations were increased 
when co-administered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Sofosbuvir AUC: ↑40% (↑25% ↑57%) 
Sofosbuvir Cmax: ↑29% (↑9% ↑52%) 
Velpatasvir AUC: ↑93% (↑58% ↑136%) 
Velpatasvir Cmax: ↑29% (↑7% ↑56%) 
Voxilaprevir AUC: ↑331% (↑276% 
↑393%) 
Voxilaprevir Cmax: ↑342% (↑265% ↑435%) 
*Lack of pharmacokinetics interaction 
bounds 70-143% 
Effect on atazanavir and ritonavir exposure 
has not been studied. 
Expected: 
↔ Atazanavir 
↔ Ritonavir 
The mechanism of interaction between 
REYATAZ/ritonavir and 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir is 
inhibition of OATP1B, P-gp, and CYP3A. 
Glecaprevir AUC: ↑553% (↑424% ↑714%) 
Glecaprevir Cmax: ↑306% (↑215% ↑423%) 
Glecaprevir Cmin: ↑1 330% (↑885% 
↑1 970%) 
Pibrentasvir AUC: ↑64% (↑48% ↑82%) 
Pibrentasvir Cmax: ↑29% (↑15% ↑45%) 
Pibrentasvir Cmin: ↑129% (↑95% ↑168%) 
*Effect of atazanavir and ritonavir on the 
first dose of glecaprevir and pibrentasvir is 
reported. 
The mechanism of the interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and/or 
ritonavir. 
Clopidogrel 
The mechanism of the interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and 
or/ritonavir. 
46 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ with voxilaprevir-
containing products is expected 
to increase the concentration of 
voxilaprevir. Co-
administration of REYATAZ 
with voxilaprevir-containing 
regimens is not recommended. 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is 
contraindicated because of the 
potential increase in the risk of 
ALT elevations due to a 
significant increase in 
glecaprevir and pibrentasvir 
plasma concentrations 
(see section 4.3) 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ with ticagrelor is 
not recommended due to 
potential increase in the 
antiplatelet activity of 
ticagrelor. 
Co-administration with 
clopidogrel is not 
recommended due to potential 
reduction of the antiplatelet 
activity of clopidogrel. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Prasugrel 
Interaction 
The mechanism of the interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and 
or/ritonavir. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
No dose adjustment is needed 
when prasugrel is 
co-administered with 
REYATAZ (with or without 
ritonavir). 
ANTI-RETROVIRALS 
Protease inhibitors: The co-administration of REYATAZ/ritonavir and other protease inhibitors has not been 
studied but would be expected to increase exposure to other protease inhibitors. Therefore, such co-
administration is not recommended. 
Ritonavir 100 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily) 
Studies conducted in HIV-
infected patients. 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑250% (↑144% ↑403%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑120% (↑56% ↑211%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑713% (↑359% 
↑1 339%)* 
Ritonavir 100 mg once daily is 
used as a booster of atazanavir 
pharmacokinetics. 
*In a combined analysis, atazanavir 
300 mg and ritonavir 100 mg (n = 33) was 
compared to atazanavir 400 mg without 
ritonavir (n = 28). 
The mechanism of interaction between 
atazanavir and ritonavir is CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
Indinavir is associated with indirect 
unconjugated hyperbilirubinaemia due to 
inhibition of UGT. 
Indinavir 
Nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) 
Lamivudine 150 mg twice 
daily + zidovudine 300 mg 
twice daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
No significant effect on lamivudine and 
zidovudine concentrations was observed. 
Abacavir 
The co-administration of abacavir and 
REYATAZ is not expected to significantly 
alter the exposure of abacavir. 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ/ritonavir and 
indinavir is not recommended 
(see section 4.4). 
Based on these data and 
because ritonavir is not 
expected to have a significant 
impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of NRTIs, 
the co-administration of these 
medicinal products and 
REYATAZ is not expected to 
significantly alter the exposure 
of the co-administered 
medicinal products. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Didanosine should be taken at 
the fasted state 2 hours after 
REYATAZ taken with food. 
The co-administration of 
stavudine with REYATAZ is 
not expected to significantly 
alter the exposure of stavudine. 
When co-administered with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, 
it is recommended that 
REYATAZ 300 mg be given 
with ritonavir 100 mg and 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
300 mg (all as a single dose 
with food). 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Didanosine (buffered tablets) 
200 mg/stavudine 40 mg, both 
single dose 
(atazanavir 400 mg single 
dose) 
Didanosine (enteric coated 
capsules) 400 mg single dose 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate 300 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
300 mg tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate is equivalent to 
245 mg tenofovir disoproxil. 
Studies conducted in HIV-
infected patients 
Interaction 
Atazanavir, simultaneous administration 
with ddI+d4T (fasted) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓87% (↓92% ↓79%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓89% (↓94% ↓82%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓84% (↓90% ↓73%) 
Atazanavir, dosed 1 hr after ddI+d4T 
(fasted) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↔3% (↓36% ↑67%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑12% (↓33% ↑18%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔3% (↓39% ↑73%) 
Atazanavir concentrations were greatly 
decreased when co-administered with 
didanosine (buffered tablets) and stavudine. 
The mechanism of interaction is a reduced 
solubility of atazanavir with increasing pH 
related to the presence of anti-acid agent in 
didanosine buffered tablets. 
No significant effect on didanosine and 
stavudine concentrations was observed. 
Didanosine (with food) 
Didanosine AUC: ↓34% (↓41% ↓27%) 
Didanosine Cmax: ↓38% (↓48% ↓26%) 
Didanosine Cmin: ↑25% (↓8% ↑69%) 
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed when 
administered with enteric-coated 
didanosine, but administration with food 
decreased didanosine concentrations. 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓22% (↓35% ↓6%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓16% (↓30% ↔0%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓23% (↓43% ↑2%)* 
*In a combined analysis from several 
clinical studies, atazanavir/ritonavir 
300/100 mg co-administered with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate 300 mg (n = 39) was 
compared to atazanavir/ritonavir 
300/100 mg (n = 33). 
The efficacy of REYATAZ/ritonavir in 
combination with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate in treatment-experienced patients 
has been demonstrated in clinical study 045 
and in treatment naive patients in clinical 
study 138 (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). The 
mechanism of interaction between 
atazanavir and tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate is unknown. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate 300 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Interaction 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate AUC: ↑37% 
(↑30% ↑45%) 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Cmax: ↑34% 
(↑20% ↑51%) 
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Cmin: ↑29% 
(↑21% ↑36%) 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Patients should be closely 
monitored for tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate-associated 
adverse reactions, including 
renal disorders. 
300 mg tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate is equivalent to 
245 mg tenofovir disoproxil. 
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) 
Co-administration of efavirenz 
and REYATAZ is not 
recommended (see 
section 4.4). 
Co-administration of 
nevirapine and REYATAZ is 
not recommended (see 
section 4.4) 
Efavirenz 600 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Efavirenz 600 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 200 mg once 
daily) 
Nevirapine 200 mg twice 
daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Study conducted in 
HIV-infected patients. 
Atazanavir (pm): all administered with 
food 
Atazanavir AUC: ↔0%(↓9% ↑10%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑17%(↑8% ↑27%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓42%(↓51% ↓31%)* 
Atazanavir (pm): all administered with 
food 
Atazanavir AUC: ↔6% (↓10% ↑26%)*/** 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔9% (↓5% ↑26%)*/** 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔12% (↓16% ↑49%)*/** 
*When compared to REYATAZ 
300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once daily in the 
evening without efavirenz. This decrease in 
atazanavir Cmin might negatively impact the 
efficacy of atazanavir. The mechanism of 
efavirenz/atazanavir interaction is CYP3A4 
induction. 
**Based on historical comparison. 
Nevirapine AUC: ↑26% (↑17% ↑36%) 
Nevirapine Cmax: ↑21% (↑11% ↑32%) 
Nevirapine Cmin: ↑35% (↑25% ↑47%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓19% (↓35% ↑2%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔2% (↓15% ↑24%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓59% (↓73% ↓40%)* 
*When compared to REYATAZ 300 mg 
and ritonavir 100 mg without nevirapine. 
This decrease in atazanavir Cmin might 
negatively impact the efficacy of 
atazanavir. The mechanism of 
nevirapine/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 induction. 
Integrase Inhibitors 
Raltegravir 400 mg twice 
daily 
(atazanavir/ritonavir) 
Raltegravir AUC: ↑41% 
Raltegravir Cmax: ↑24% 
Raltegravir C12hr: ↑77% 
No dose adjustment required 
for raltegravir. 
The mechanism is UGT1A1 inhibition. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ANTIBIOTICS 
Clarithromycin 500 mg twice 
daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
ANTIFUNGALS 
Ketoconazole 200 mg once 
daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
Itraconazole 
Voriconazole 200 mg twice 
daily (atazanavir 
300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Subjects with at least one 
functional CYP2C19 allele. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
No recommendation regarding 
dose reduction can be made; 
therefore, caution should be 
exercised if REYATAZ is co-
administered with 
clarithromycin. 
Ketoconazole and itraconazole 
should be used cautiously with 
REYATAZ/ritonavir, high 
doses of ketoconazole and 
itraconazole (> 200 mg/day) 
are not recommended. 
Co-administration of 
voriconazole and REYATAZ 
with ritonavir is not 
recommended unless an 
assessment of the benefit/risk 
to the patient justifies the use 
of voriconazole (see 
section 4.4). 
At the time voriconazole 
treatment is required, a 
patient's CYP2C19 genotype 
should be performed if 
feasible. 
Therefore if the combination is 
Interaction 
Clarithromycin AUC: ↑94% (↑75% 
↑116%) 
Clarithromycin Cmax: ↑50% (↑32% ↑71%) 
Clarithromycin Cmin: ↑160% (↑135% 
↑188%) 
14-OH clarithromycin 
14-OH clarithromycin AUC: ↓70% (↓74% 
↓66%) 
14-OH clarithromycin Cmax: ↓72% (↓76% 
↓67%) 
14-OH clarithromycin Cmin: ↓62% (↓66% 
↓58%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↑28% (↑16% ↑43%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔6% (↓7% ↑20%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑91% (↑66% ↑121%) 
A dose reduction of clarithromycin may 
result in subtherapeutic concentrations of 
14-OH clarithromycin. 
The mechanism of the 
clarithromycin/atazanavir interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition. 
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed. 
Itraconazole, like ketoconazole, is a potent 
inhibitor as well as a substrate of CYP3A4. 
Based on data obtained with other boosted 
PIs and ketoconazole, where ketoconazole 
AUC showed a 3-fold increase, 
REYATAZ/ritonavir is expected to 
increase ketoconazole or itraconazole 
concentrations. 
Voriconazole AUC: ↓33% (↓42% ↓22%) 
Voriconazole Cmax: ↓10% (↓22% ↓4%) 
Voriconazole Cmin: ↓39% (↓49% ↓28%) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓12% (↓18% ↓5%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓13% (↓20% ↓4%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓20% (↓28% ↓10%) 
Ritonavir AUC: ↓12% (↓17% ↓7%) 
Ritonavir Cmax: ↓9% (↓17% ↔0%) 
Ritonavir Cmin: ↓25% (↓35% ↓14%) 
In the majority of patients with at least one 
functional CYP2C19 allele, a reduction in 
both voriconazole and atazanavir exposures 
are expected. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Voriconazole 50 mg twice 
daily (atazanavir 
300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Subjects without a functional 
CYP2C19 allele. 
Interaction 
Voriconazole AUC: ↑561% (↑451% 
↑699%) 
Voriconazole Cmax: ↑438% (↑355% 
↑539%) 
Voriconazole Cmin: ↑765% (↑571% 
↑1,020%) 
Fluconazole 200 mg once 
daily 
(atazanavir 300 mg and 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
ANTIMYCOBACTERIAL 
Rifabutin 150 mg twice 
weekly 
(atazanavir 300 mg and 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily) 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓20% (↓35% ↓3%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓19% (↓34% ↔0.2%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓31% (↓46% ↓13%) 
Ritonavir AUC: ↓11% (↓20% ↓1%) 
Ritonavir Cmax: ↓11% (↓24% ↑4%) 
Ritonavir Cmin: ↓19% (↓35% ↑1%) 
In a small number of patients without a 
functional CYP2C19 allele, significantly 
increased voriconazole exposures are 
expected. 
Atazanavir and fluconazole concentrations 
were not significantly modified when 
REYATAZ/ritonavir was co-administered 
with fluconazole. 
Rifabutin AUC: ↑48% (↑19% ↑84%)** 
Rifabutin Cmax: ↑149% (↑103% ↑206%)** 
Rifabutin Cmin: ↑40% (↑5% ↑87%)** 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin AUC: ↑990% 
(↑714% ↑1 361%)** 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin Cmax: ↑677% 
(↑513% ↑883%)** 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin Cmin: ↑1 045% 
(↑715% ↑1 510%)** 
**When compared to rifabutin 150 mg 
once daily alone. Total rifabutin and 
25-O-desacetyl-rifabutin AUC: ↑119% 
(↑78% ↑169%). 
In previous studies, the pharmacokinetics 
of atazanavir was not altered by rifabutin. 
51 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
unavoidable, the following 
recommendations are made 
according to the CYP2C19 
status: 
- 
- 
in patients with at least 
one functional 
CYP2C19 allele, close 
clinical monitoring for a 
loss of both 
voriconazole (clinical 
signs) and atazanavir 
(virologic response) 
efficacy is 
recommended. 
in patients without a 
functional CYP2C19 
allele, close clinical and 
laboratory monitoring 
of voriconazole-
associated adverse 
events is recommended. 
If genotyping is not feasible, 
full monitoring of safety and 
efficacy should be performed. 
No dosage adjustments are 
needed for fluconazole and 
REYATAZ. 
When given with REYATAZ, 
the recommended dose of 
rifabutin is 150 mg 3 times per 
week on set days (for example 
Monday-Wednesday-Friday). 
Increased monitoring for 
rifabutin-associated adverse 
reactions including neutropenia 
and uveitis is warranted due to 
an expected increase in 
exposure to rifabutin. Further 
dosage reduction of rifabutin to 
150 mg twice weekly on set 
days is recommended for 
patients in whom the 150 mg 
dose 3 times per week is not 
tolerated. It should be kept in 
mind that the twice weekly 
dosage of 150 mg may not 
provide an optimal exposure to 
rifabutin thus leading to a risk 
of rifamycin resistance and a 
treatment failure. No dose 
adjustment is needed for 
REYATAZ. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Rifampicin 
ANTIPSYCHOTICS 
Quetiapine 
Interaction 
Rifampicin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer 
and has been shown to cause a 72% 
decrease in atazanavir AUC which can 
result in virological failure and resistance 
development. During attempts to overcome 
the decreased exposure by increasing the 
dose of REYATAZ or other protease 
inhibitors with ritonavir, a high frequency 
of liver reactions was seen. 
Due to CYP3A4 inhibition by REYATAZ, 
concentrations of quetiapine are expected 
to increase. 
Lurasidone 
REYATAZ is expected to increase plasma 
levels of lurasidone due to CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
ACID REDUCING AGENTS 
H2-Receptor antagonists 
Without Tenofovir 
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at the recommended 
dose 300/100 mg once daily 
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily  Atazanavir AUC: ↓18% (↓25% ↑1%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓20% (↓32% ↓7%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔1% (↓16% ↑18%) 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily  Atazanavir AUC: ↓23% (↓32% ↓14%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓23% (↓33% ↓12%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓20% (↓31% ↓8%) 
In healthy volunteers with atazanavir/ritonavir at an increased dose 
of 400/100 mg once daily 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily  Atazanavir AUC: ↔3% (↓14% ↑22%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔2% (↓13% ↑8%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓14% (↓32% ↑8%) 
With Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily (equivalent to 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil) 
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at the recommended dose 
of 300/100 mg once daily 
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily  Atazanavir AUC: ↓21% (↓34% ↓4%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓21% (↓36% ↓4%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓19% (↓37% ↑5%)* 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily  Atazanavir AUC: ↓24% (↓36% ↓11%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓23% (↓36% ↓8%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓25% (↓47% ↑7%)* 
In HIV-infected patients with atazanavir/ritonavir at an increased dose 
of 400/100 mg once daily 
Famotidine 20 mg twice daily  Atazanavir AUC: ↑18% (↑6.5% ↑30%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↑18% (↑6.7% ↑31%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↑24% (↑10% ↑39%)* 
52 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
The combination of rifampicin 
and REYATAZis 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Co-administration of 
quetiapine with REYATAZ is 
contraindicated as REYATAZ 
may increase quetiapine-
related toxicity. Increased 
plasma concentrations of 
quetiapine may lead to coma 
(see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of 
lurasidone with REYATAZ is 
contraindicated as this may 
increase lurasidone-related 
toxicity (see section 4.3). 
For patients not taking 
tenofovir, if REYATAZ 
300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg and 
H2-receptor antagonists are co-
administered, a dose equivalent 
to famotidine 20 mg twice 
daily should not be exceeded. 
If a higher dose of an H2-
receptor antagonist is required 
(e.g., famotidine 40 mg twice 
daily or equivalent) an increase 
of the REYATAZ/ritonavir 
dose from 300/100 mg to 
400/100 mg can be considered. 
For patients who are taking 
tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate, if 
REYATAZ/ritonavir with both 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
and an H2-receptor antagonist 
are co-administered, a dose 
increase of REYATAZ to 
400 mg with 100 mg of 
ritonavir is recommended. A 
dose equivalent to famotidine 
40 mg twice daily should not 
be exceeded. 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Famotidine 40 mg twice daily  Atazanavir AUC: ↔2.3% (↓13% ↑10%)* 
Interaction 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Proton pump inhibitors 
Omeprazole 40 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Omeprazole 20 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↔5% (↓17% ↑8.4%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↔1.3% (↓10% ↑15)* 
*When compared to atazanavir 300 mg 
once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily 
and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg 
all as a single dose with food. When 
compared to atazanavir 300 mg with 
ritonavir 100 mg without tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate,, atazanavir 
concentrations are expected to be 
additionally decreased by about 20%. 
The mechanism of interaction is decreased 
solubility of atazanavir as intra-gastric pH 
increases with H2-blockers. 
Atazanavir (am): 2 hr after omeprazole 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓61% (↓65% ↓55%) 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓66% (↓62% ↓49%) 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓65% (↓71% ↓59%) 
Atazanavir (am): 1 hr after omeprazole 
Atazanavir AUC: ↓30% (↓43% ↓14%)* 
Atazanavir Cmax: ↓31% (↓42% ↓17%)* 
Atazanavir Cmin: ↓31% (↓46% ↓12%)* 
*When compared to atazanavir 300 mg 
once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily. 
The decrease in AUC, Cmax, and Cmin was 
not mitigated when an increased dose of 
REYATAZ/ritonavir (400/100 mg once 
daily) was temporally separated from 
omeprazole by 12 hours. Although not 
studied, similar results are expected with 
other proton pump inhibitors. This decrease 
in atazanavir exposure might negatively 
impact the efficacy of atazanavir. The 
mechanism of interaction is decreased 
solubility of atazanavir as intra-gastric pH 
increases with proton pump inhibitors. 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ with ritonavir and 
proton pump inhibitors is not 
recommended. If the 
combination is judged 
unavoidable, close clinical 
monitoring is recommended in 
combination with an increase 
in the dose of REYATAZ to 
400 mg with 100 mg of 
ritonavir; doses of proton 
pump inhibitors comparable to 
omeprazole 20 mg should not 
be exceeded (see section 4.4). 
Antacids 
Antacids and medicinal 
products containing buffers 
Reduced plasma concentrations of 
atazanavir may be the consequence of 
increased gastric pH if antacids, including 
buffered medicinal products, are 
administered with REYATAZ.  
REYATAZ should be 
administered 2 hours before or 
1 hour after antacids or 
buffered medicinal products. 
ALPHA 1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST 
Alfuzosin 
Potential for increased alfuzosin 
concentrations which can result in 
hypotension. The mechanism of interaction 
is CYP3A4 inhibition by REYATAZ 
and/or ritonavir. 
Co-administration of alfuzosin 
with REYATAZ is 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3) 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ANTICOAGULANTS 
Direct-acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs) 
Interaction 
Apixaban 
Rivaroxaban 
Dabigatran 
Edoxaban 
Vitamin K antagonists 
Warfarin 
ANTIEPILEPTICS 
Carbamazepine 
Potential for increased apixaban and 
rivaroxaban concentrations which can 
result in a higher risk of bleeding. 
The mechanism of interaction is inhibition 
of CYP3A4/and P-gp by 
REYATAZ/ritonavir. 
Ritonavir is a strong inhibitor of both 
CYP3A4 and P-gp. 
REYATAZ is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. The 
potential inhibition of P-gp by REYATAZ 
is unknown and cannot be excluded. 
Potential for increased dabigatran 
concentrations which can result in a higher 
risk of bleeding. The mechanism of 
interaction is P-gp inhibition. 
Ritonavir is a strong P-gp inhibitor. 
Potential P-gp inhibition by REYATAZ is 
unknown and cannot be excluded. 
Potential for increased edoxaban 
concentrations which can result in a higher 
risk of bleeding. The mechanism of 
interaction is P-gp inhibition by 
REYATAZ/ritonavir. 
Ritonavir is a strong P-gp inhibitor. 
Potential P-gp inhibition by REYATAZ is 
unknown and cannot be excluded. 
Co-administration with REYATAZ has the 
potential to increase or decreasewarfarin 
concentrations. 
REYATAZ may increase plasma levels of 
carbamazepine due to CYP3A4 inhibition. 
Due to carbamazepine inducing effect, a 
reduction in REYATAZ exposure cannot 
be ruled out. 
54 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Co-administration of apixaban 
or rivaroxaban and REYATAZ 
with ritonavir is not 
recommended. 
Co-administration of 
dabigatran and REYATAZ 
with ritonavir is not 
recommended. 
Exercise caution when 
edoxaban is used with 
REYATAZ. 
Please refer to the edoxaban 
SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.5 for 
appropriate edoxaban dosage 
recommendations for 
co-administration with P-gp 
inhibitors. 
It is recommended that the 
International Normalised Ratio 
(INR) be monitored carefully 
during treatment with 
REYATAZ, especially when 
commencing therapy. 
Carbamazepine should be used 
with caution in combination 
with REYATAZ. If necessary, 
monitor carbamazepine serum 
concentrations and adjust the 
dose accordingly. Close 
monitoring of the patient's 
virologic response should be 
excercised. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Phenytoin, phenobarbital 
Interaction 
Ritonavir may decrease plasma levels of 
phenytoin and/or phenobarbital due to 
CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 induction. 
Due to phenytoin/phenobarbital inducing 
effect, a reduction in REYATAZ exposure 
cannot be ruled out. 
Lamotrigine 
Co-administration of lamotrigine and 
REYATAZ/ritonavir may decrease 
lamotrigine plasma concentrations due to 
UGT1A4 induction. 
ANTINEOPLASTICS AND IMMUNOSUPRESSANTS 
Antineoplastics 
Apalutamide 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
induction by apalutamide and CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir/ritonavir. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Phenobarbital and phenytoin 
should be used with caution in 
combination with 
REYATAZ/ritonavir. 
When REYATAZ/ritonavir is 
co-administered with either 
phenytoin or phenobarbital, a 
dose adjustment of phenytoin 
or phenobarbital may be 
required. 
Close monitoring of patient's 
virologic response should be 
exercised. 
Lamotrigine should be used 
with caution in combination 
with REYATAZ/ritonavir. 
If necessary, monitor 
lamotrigine concentrations and 
adjust the dose accordingly. 
Co-administration with 
REYATAZ (with or without 
ritonavir) is contraindicated 
due to the potential for 
decreased atazanavir and 
ritonavir plasma concentration 
with subsequent loss of 
virologic response and possible 
resistance to the class of 
protease inhibitors (see 
section 4.3). In addition, serum 
concentrations of apalutamide 
may be increased when 
coadministered with 
atazanavir/ritonavir, resulting 
in the potential for serious 
adverse events including 
seizure. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Encorafenib 
Interaction 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Ivosidenib 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Irinotecan 
Atazanavir inhibits UGT and may interfere 
with the metabolism of irinotecan, resulting 
in increased irinotecan toxicities. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Avoid co-administration of 
encorafenib with REYATAZ 
(with or without ritonavir) due 
to potential for increase in 
encorafenib plasma 
concentration and subsequent 
risk of serious adverse events 
such as QT interval 
prolongation. If 
co-administration of 
encorafenib with REYATAZ 
(with or without ritonavir) 
cannot be avoided, modify 
encorafenib dose as 
recommended for 
co-administration with strong 
and moderate CYP3A4 
inhibitors in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics of 
encorafenib. 
Avoid co-administration of 
ivosidenib with REYATAZ 
(with or without ritonavir) due 
to potential for increase in 
ivosidenib plasma 
concentration and subsequent 
risk of serious adverse events 
such as QT interval 
prolongation. If 
co-administration of ivosidenib 
with REYATAZ (with or 
without ritonavir) cannot be 
avoided, modify ivosidenib 
dose as recommended for 
co-administration with strong 
and moderate CYP3A4 
inhibitors in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics of 
ivosidenib. 
If REYATAZ is co-
administered with irinotecan, 
patients should be closely 
monitored for adverse events 
related to irinotecan. 
Immunosuppressants 
Cyclosporin 
Tacrolimus 
Sirolimus 
Concentrations of these 
immunosuppressants may be increased 
when co-administered with REYATAZ due 
to CYP3A4 inhibition. 
More frequent therapeutic 
concentration monitoring of 
these medicinal products is 
recommended until plasma 
levels have been stabilised. 
56 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
CARDIOVASCULAR AGENTS 
Antiarrhythmics 
Interaction 
Amiodarone, 
Systemic lidocaine, 
Quinidine 
Calcium channel blockers 
Bepridil 
Diltiazem 180 mg once daily 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
Verapamil 
Concentrations of these antiarrhythmics 
may be increased when co-administered 
with REYATAZ. The mechanism of 
amiodarone or systemic 
lidocaine/atazanavir interaction is CYP3A 
inhibition. Quinidine has a narrow 
therapeutic window and is contraindicated 
due to potential inhibition of CYP3A by 
REYATAZ. 
REYATAZ should not be used in 
combination with medicinal products that 
are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a 
narrow therapeutic index. 
Diltiazem AUC: ↑125% (↑109% ↑141%) 
Diltiazem Cmax: ↑98% (↑78% ↑119%) 
Diltiazem Cmin: ↑142% (↑114% ↑173%) 
Desacetyl-diltiazem AUC: ↑165% (↑145% 
↑187%) 
Desacetyl-diltiazem Cmax: ↑172% (↑144% 
↑203%) 
Desacetyl-diltiazem Cmin: ↑121% (↑102% 
↑142%) 
No significant effect on atazanavir 
concentrations was observed. There was an 
increase in the maximum PR interval 
compared to atazanavir alone. Co-
administration of diltiazem and 
REYATAZ/ritonavir has not been studied. 
The mechanism of diltiazem/atazanavir 
interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition. 
Serum concentrations of verapamil may be 
increased by REYATAZ due to CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Caution is warranted and 
therapeutic concentration 
monitoring is recommended 
when available. The 
concomitant use of quinidine is 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Co-administration with 
bepridil is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3) 
An initial dose reduction of 
diltiazem by 50% is 
recommended, with subsequent 
titration as needed and ECG 
monitoring. 
Caution should be exercised 
when verapamil is co-
administered with REYATAZ. 
57 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
CORTICOSTEROIDS 
Dexamethasone and other 
corticosteroids (all routes of 
administration) 
Interaction 
Co-administration with dexamethasone or 
other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A 
may result in loss of therapeutic effect of 
REYATAZ and development of resistance 
to atazanavir and/or ritonavir. Alternative 
corticosteroids should be considered. 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
induction by dexamethasone and CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Fluticasone propionate 
intranasal 50 μg 4 times daily 
for 7 days 
(ritonavir 100 mg capsules 
twice daily) 
And 
Inhaled/Nasal Corticosteroids 
The fluticasone propionate plasma levels 
increased significantly, whereas the 
intrinsic cortisol levels decreased by 
approximately 86% (90% confidence 
interval 82%-89%). Greater effects may be 
expected when fluticasone propionate is 
inhaled. Systemic corticosteroid effects 
including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal 
suppression have been reported in patients 
receiving ritonavir and inhaled or 
intranasally administered fluticasone 
propionate; this could also occur with other 
corticosteroids metabolised via the P450 
3A pathway, e.g., budesonide. The effects 
of high fluticasone systemic exposure on 
ritonavir plasma levels are yet unknown. 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition. 
Concomitant use of REYATAZ (with or 
without ritonavir) and other Inhaled/Nasal 
Corticosteroids is expected to produce the 
same effects. 
58 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Co-administration with 
corticosteroids (all routes of 
administration) that are 
metabolized by CYP3A, 
particularly for long-term use, 
may increase the risk for 
development of systemic 
corticosteroid effects including 
Cushing’s syndrome and 
adrenal suppression. The 
potential benefit of treatment 
versus the risk of systemic 
corticosteroid effects should be 
considered. 
For co-administration of 
cutaneously administered 
corticosteroids sensitive to 
CYP3A inhibition, consult the 
Summary of Product 
Characteristics of the 
corticosteroid for condition or 
uses that augment its systemic 
absorption. 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ/ritonavir and these 
glucocorticoids metabolised by 
CYP3A4 is not recommended 
unless the potential benefit of 
treatment outweighs the risk of 
systemic corticosteroid effects 
(see section 4.4).  
A dose reduction of the 
glucocorticoid should be 
considered with close 
monitoring of local and 
systemic effects or a switch to 
a glucocorticoid, which is not a 
substrate for CYP3A4 (e.g., 
beclomethasone). Moreover, in 
case of withdrawal of 
glucocorticoids, progressive 
dose reduction may have to be 
performed over a longer 
period. 
Concomitant use of 
Inhaled/Nasal Corticosteroids 
and REYATAZ (with or 
without ritonavir) may increase 
plasma concentrations of 
Inhaled/Nasal corticosteroids. 
Use with caution. Consider 
alternatives to Inhaled/Nasal 
Corticosteroids, particularly for 
long-term use. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION 
PDE5 Inhibitors 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, 
vardenafil 
Interaction 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, and vardenafil are 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-
administration with REYATAZ may result 
in increased concentrations of the PDE5 
inhibitor and an increase in PDE5-
associated adverse events, including 
hypotension, visual changes, and priapism. 
The mechanism of this interaction is 
CYP3A4 inhibition. 
Patients should be warned 
about these possible side 
effects when using PDE5 
inhibitors for erectile 
dysfunction with REYATAZ 
(see section 4.4). 
Also see PULMONARY 
ARTERIAL 
HYPERTENSION in this table 
for further information 
regarding co-administration of 
REYATAZ with sildenafil. 
GONADOTROPIN-RELEASING HORMONE (GnRH) RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Elagolix 
The mechanism of interaction is anticipated 
increase in elagolix exposure in the 
presence of CYP3A4 inhibition by 
atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Concomitant use of elagolix 
200 mg twice daily with 
REYATAZ (with or without 
ritonavir) for more than 
1 month is not recommended 
due to the potential risk of 
adverse events such as bone 
loss and hepatic transaminase 
elevations. Limit concomitant 
use of elagolix 150 mg once 
daily with REYATAZ (with or 
without ritonavir) to 6 months. 
Concomitant use of 
fostamatinib with REYATAZ 
(with or without ritonavir) may 
increase the plasma 
concentration of R406, the 
active metabolite of 
fostamatinib. Monitor for 
toxicities of R406 exposure 
resulting in dose-related 
adverse events such as 
hepatotoxicity and neutropenia. 
Fostamatinib dose reduction 
may be required. 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ with products 
containing St. John's wort is 
contraindicated. 
KINASE INHIBITORS 
Fostamatinib 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
HERBAL PRODUCTS 
St. John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) 
Concomitant use of St. John's wort with 
REYATAZ may be expected to result in 
significant reduction in plasma levels of 
atazanavir. This effect may be due to an 
induction of CYP3A4. There is a risk of 
loss of therapeutic effect and development 
of resistance (see section 4.3). 
59 
 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
If an oral contraceptive is 
administered with 
REYATAZ/ritonavir, it is 
recommended that the oral 
contraceptive contain at least 
30 μg of ethinyloestradiol and 
that the patient be reminded of 
strict compliance with this 
contraceptive dosing regimen. 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ/ritonavir with 
other hormonal contraceptives 
or oral contraceptives 
containing progestogens other 
than norgestimate has not been 
studied, and therefore should 
be avoided. An alternate 
reliable method of 
contraception is recommended. 
Co-administration of 
simvastatin or lovastatin with 
REYATAZ is contraindicated 
due to an increased risk of 
myopathy including 
rhabdomyolysis (see 
section 4.3). 
Interaction 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
HORMONAL CONTRACEPTIVES 
Ethinyloestradiol 25 μg + 
norgestimate 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Ethinyloestradiol AUC: ↓19% (↓25% 
↓13%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmax: ↓16% (↓26% ↓5%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmin: ↓37% (↓45% ↓29%) 
Ethinyloestradiol  35 µg  + 
norethindrone 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
LIPID-MODIFYING AGENTS 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors 
Simvastatin 
Lovastatin 
Norgestimate AUC: ↑85% (↑67% ↑105%) 
Norgestimate Cmax: ↑68% (↑51% ↑88%) 
Norgestimate Cmin: ↑102% (↑77% ↑131%) 
While the concentration of 
ethinyloestradiol was increased with 
atazanavir given alone, due to both UGT 
and CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir, the 
net effect of atazanavir/ritonavir is a 
decrease in ethinyloestradiol levels because 
of the inducing effect of ritonavir. 
The increase in progestin exposure may 
lead to related side effects (e.g., insulin 
resistance, dyslipidemia, acne and 
spotting), thus possibly affecting the 
compliance. 
Ethinyloestradiol AUC: ↑48% (↑31% 
↑68%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmax: ↑15% (↓1% 
↑32%) 
Ethinyloestradiol Cmin: ↑91% (↑57% 
↑133%) 
Norethindrone AUC: ↑110% (↑68% 
↑162%) 
Norethindrone Cmax: ↑67% (↑42% 
↑196%) 
Norethindrone Cmin: ↑262% (↑157% 
↑409%) 
The increase in progestin exposure may 
lead to related side effects (e.g., insulin 
resistance, dyslipidemia, acne and 
spotting), thus possibly affecting the 
compliance. 
Simvastatin and lovastatin are highly 
dependent on CYP3A4 for their 
metabolism and co-administration with 
REYATAZ may result in increased 
concentrations. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
Atorvastatin 
Interaction 
The risk of myopathy including 
rhabdomyolysis may also be increased with 
atorvastatin, which is also metabolised by 
CYP3A4. 
Pravastatin 
Fluvastatin 
Other lipid-modifying agents 
Lomitapide 
Although not studied, there is a potential 
for an increase in pravastatin or fluvastatin 
exposure when co-administered with 
protease inhibitors. Pravastatin is not 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Fluvastatin is 
partially metabolised by CYP2C9. 
Lomitapide is highly dependent on 
CYP3A4 for metabolism and co-
administration with REYATAZ with 
ritonavir may result in increased 
concentrations. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Co-administration of 
atorvastatin with REYATAZ is 
not recommended. If the use of 
atorvastatin is considered 
strictly necessary, the lowest 
possible dose of atorvastatin 
should be administered with 
careful safety monitoring (see 
section 4.4). 
Caution should be exercised. 
Co-administration of 
lomitapide and REYATAZ 
with ritonavir is 
contraindicated due to a 
potential risk of markedly 
increased transaminase levels 
and hepatotoxicity (see 
section 4.3). 
INHALED BETA AGONISTS 
Salmeterol 
OPIOIDS 
Buprenorphine, once daily, 
stable maintenance dose 
(atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily) 
Co-administration with REYATAZ may 
result in increased concentrations of 
salmeterol and an increase in salmeterol-
associated adverse events. 
Co-administration of 
salmeterol with REYATAZ is 
not recommended (see 
section 4.4). 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Buprenorphine AUC: ↑67% 
Buprenorphine Cmax: ↑37% 
Buprenorphine Cmin: ↑69% 
Norbuprenorphine AUC: ↑105% 
Norbuprenorphine Cmax: ↑61% 
Norbuprenorphine Cmin: ↑101% 
Co-administration with 
REYATAZ with ritonavir 
warrants clinical monitoring 
for sedation and cognitive 
effects. A dose reduction of 
buprenorphine may be 
considered. 
Methadone, stable 
maintenance dose 
(atazanavir 400 mg once daily) 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
and UGT1A1 inhibition. 
Concentrations of atazanavir (when given 
with ritonavir) were not significantly 
affected. 
No significant effect on methadone 
concentrations was observed. Given that 
low dose ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) has 
been shown to have no significant effect on 
methadone concentrations, no interaction is 
expected if methadone is co-administered 
with REYATAZ, based on these data. 
No dosage adjustment is 
necessary if methadone is co-
administered with REYATAZ. 
61 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic area 
PULMONARY ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION 
PDE5 Inhibitors 
Interaction 
Sildenafil 
SEDATIVES 
Benzodiazepines 
Midazolam 
Triazolam 
Co-administration with REYATAZ may 
result in increased concentrations of the 
PDE5 inhibitor and an increase in PDE5-
inhibitor-associated adverse events. 
The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 
inhibition by atazanavir and/or ritonavir. 
Midazolam and triazolam are extensively 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-
administration with REYATAZ may cause 
a large increase in the concentration of 
these benzodiazepines. No drug interaction 
study has been performed for the co-
administration of REYATAZ with 
benzodiazepines. Based on data for other 
CYP3A4 inhibitors, plasma concentrations 
of midazolam are expected to be 
significantly higher when midazolam is 
given orally. Data from concomitant use of 
parenteral midazolam with other protease 
inhibitors suggest a possible 3-4-fold 
increase in midazolam plasma levels. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
A safe and effective dose in 
combination with REYATAZ 
has not been established for 
sildenafil when used to treat 
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil, when 
used for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension, is 
contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Co-administration of 
REYATAZ with triazolam or 
orally administered midazolam 
is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3), whereas caution 
should be used with co-
administration of REYATAZ 
and parenteral midazolam. If 
REYATAZ is co-administered 
with parenteral midazolam, it 
should be done in an intensive 
care unit (ICU) or similar 
setting which ensures close 
clinical monitoring and 
appropriate medical 
management in case of 
respiratory depression and/or 
prolonged sedation. Dosage 
adjustment for midazolam 
should be considered, 
especially if more than a single 
dose of midazolam is 
administered. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
A moderate amount of data in pregnant women (between 300-1 000 pregnancy outcomes) indicate no 
malformative toxicity of atazanavir. Animal studies do not indicate reproductive toxicity (see 
section 5.3). The use of REYATAZ may be considered during pregnancy only if the potential benefit 
justifies the potential risk. 
In clinical trial AI424-182 REYATAZ/ritonavir (300/100 mg or 400/100 mg) in combination with 
zidovudine/lamivudine was administered to 41 pregnant women during the second or third trimester. 
Six of 20 (30%) women on REYATAZ/ritonavir 300/100 mg and 13 of 21 (62%) women on 
REYATAZ/ritonavir 400/100 mg experienced grades 3 to 4 hyperbilirubinaemia. There were no cases 
of lactic acidosis observed in the clinical trial AI424-182. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study assessed 40 infants who received antiretroviral prophylactic treatment (which did not 
include REYATAZ) and were negative for HIV-1 DNA at the time of delivery and/or during the first 
6 months postpartum. Three of 20 infants (15%) born to women treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 
300/100 mg and four of 20 infants (20%) born to women treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 
400/100 mg experienced grade 3-4 bilirubin. There was no evidence of pathologic jaundice and six of 
40 infants in this study received phototherapy for a maximum of 4 days. There were no reported cases 
of kernicterus in neonates. 
For dosing recommendations see section 4.2 and for pharmacokinetic data see section 5.2. 
It is not known whether REYATAZ administered to the mother during pregnancy will exacerbate 
physiological hyperbilirubinaemia and lead to kernicterus in neonates and infants. In the prepartum 
period, additional monitoring should be considered. 
Breast-feeding 
Atazanavir has been detected in human milk. In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is 
recommended that women living with HIV do not breast-feed their infants. 
Fertility 
In a nonclinical fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, atazanavir altered oestrus 
cycling with no effects on mating or fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Patients should be informed that dizziness has been reported during treatment with regimens 
containing REYATAZ (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
REYATAZ has been evaluated for safety in combination therapy with other antiretroviral medicinal 
products in controlled clinical trials in 1,806 adult patients receiving REYATAZ 400 mg once daily 
(1,151 patients, 52 weeks median duration and 152 weeks maximum duration) or REYATAZ 300 mg 
with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (655 patients, 96 weeks median duration and 108 weeks maximum 
duration). 
Adverse reactions were consistent between patients who received REYATAZ 400 mg once daily and 
patients who received REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily, except that jaundice and 
elevated total bilirubin levels were reported more frequently with REYATAZ plus ritonavir. 
Among patients who received REYATAZ 400 mg once daily or REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 
100 mg once daily, the only adverse reactions of any severity reported very commonly with at least a 
possible relationship to regimens containing REYATAZ and one or more NRTIs were nausea (20%), 
diarrhoea (10%), and jaundice (13%). Among patients receiving REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 
100 mg, the frequency of jaundice was 19%. In the majority of cases, jaundice was reported within a 
few days to a few months after the initiation of treatment (see section 4.4). 
Chronic kidney disease in HIV-infected patients treated with atazanavir, with or without ritonavir, has 
been reported during postmarketing surveillance. A large prospective observational study has shown 
an association between an increased incidence of chronic kidney disease and cumulative exposure to 
atazanavir/ritonavir-containing regimen in HIV-infected patients with an initially normal eGFR. This 
association was observed independently of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil. Regular monitoring of the 
renal function of patients should be maintained throughout the treatment duration (see section 4.4). 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Assessment of adverse reactions for REYATAZ is based on safety data from clinical studies and post-
marketing experience. Frequency is defined using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very 
rare (< 1/10,000). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Immune system disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Eye disorders: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Reproductive system and breast disorders: 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions: 
uncommon: hypersensitivity 
uncommon: weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia, 
appetite increased 
uncommon: depression, disorientation, anxiety, insomnia, 
sleep disorder, abnormal dream 
common: headache; 
uncommon: peripheral neuropathy, syncope, amnesia, 
dizziness, somnolence, dysgeusia 
common: ocular icterus 
uncommon: torsades de pointesa 
rare: QTc prolongationa, oedema, palpitation 
uncommon: hypertension 
uncommon: dyspnoea 
common: vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, nausea, 
dyspepsia; 
uncommon: pancreatitis, gastritis, abdominal distension, 
stomatitis aphthous, flatulence, dry mouth 
common: jaundice; 
uncommon: hepatitis, cholelithiasisa, cholestasisa; 
rare: hepatosplenomegaly, cholecystitisa 
common: rash; 
uncommon: erythema multiformea,b, toxic skin eruptionsa,b, 
drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms 
(DRESS) syndromea,b, angioedemaa, urticaria, alopecia, 
pruritus; 
rare: Stevens-Johnson syndromea,b, vesiculobullous rash, 
eczema, vasodilatation 
uncommon: muscle atrophy, arthralgia, myalgia; 
rare: myopathy 
uncommon: nephrolithiasisa, haematuria, proteinuria, 
pollakiuria, interstitial nephritis, chronic kidney diseasea; 
rare: kidney pain 
uncommon: gynaecomastia 
common: fatigue; 
uncommon: chest pain, malaise, pyrexia, asthenia; 
rare: gait disturbance 
a These adverse reactions were identified through post-marketing surveillance, however, the frequencies were estimated from 
a statistical calculation based on the total number of patients exposed to REYATAZ in randomised controlled and other 
available clinical trials (n = 2 321). 
b See description of selected adverse reactions for more details. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In HIV-infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4). 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4). 
Metabolic parameters 
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy 
(see section 4.4). 
Rash and associated syndromes 
Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 3 weeks 
of starting therapy with REYATAZ. 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions, and drug rash with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome have been reported with the use of 
REYATAZ (see section 4.4). 
Laboratory abnormalities 
The most frequently reported laboratory abnormality in patients receiving regimens containing 
REYATAZ and one or more NRTIs was elevated total bilirubin reported predominantly as elevated 
indirect [unconjugated] bilirubin (87% Grade 1, 2, 3, or 4). Grade 3 or 4 elevation of total bilirubin 
was noted in 37% (6% Grade 4). Among experienced patients treated with REYATAZ 300 mg once 
daily with 100 mg ritonavir once daily for a median duration of 95 weeks, 53% had Grade 3-4 total 
bilirubin elevations. Among naïve patients treated with REYATAZ 300 mg once daily with 100 mg 
ritonavir once daily for a median duration of 96 weeks, 48% had Grade 3-4 total bilirubin elevations 
(see section 4.4). 
Other marked clinical laboratory abnormalities (Grade 3 or 4) reported in ≥ 2% of patients receiving 
regimens containing REYATAZ and one or more NRTIs included: elevated creatine kinase (7%), 
elevated alanine aminotransferase/serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (ALT/SGPT) (5%), low 
neutrophils (5%), elevated aspartate aminotransferase/serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 
(AST/SGOT) (3%), and elevated lipase (3%). 
Two percent of patients treated with REYATAZ experienced concurrent Grade 3-4 ALT/AST and 
Grade 3-4 total bilirubin elevations. 
Paediatric population 
In a clinical study AI424-020, paediatric patients 3 months to less than 18 years of age who received 
either the oral powder or capsule formulation had a mean duration of treatment with REYATAZ of 
115 weeks. The safety profile in this study was overall comparable to that seen in adults. Both 
asymptomatic first-degree (23%) and second-degree (1%) atrioventricular block were reported in 
paediatric patients. The most frequently reported laboratory abnormalities in paediatric patients 
receiving REYATAZ was elevation of total bilirubin (≥ 2.6 times ULN, Grade 3-4) which occurred in 
45% of patients. 
In clinical studies AI424-397 and AI424-451, paediatric patients 3 months to less than 11 years of age 
had a mean duration of treatment with REYATAZ oral powder of 80 weeks. No deaths were reported. 
The safety profile in these studies was overall comparable to that seen in previous paediatric and adult 
studies. The most frequently reported laboratory abnormalities in paediatric patients receiving 
REYATAZ oral powder was elevation of total bilirubin (≥ 2.6 times ULN, Grade 3-4; 16%) and 
increased amylase (Grade 3-4; 33%), generally of non-pancreatic origin. Elevation in ALT levels were 
more frequently reported in paediatric patients in these studies than in adults. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other special populations 
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus 
Among 1,151 patients receiving atazanavir 400 mg once daily, 177 patients were co-infected with 
chronic hepatitis B or C, and among 655 patients receiving atazanavir 300 mg once daily with 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily, 97 patients were co-infected with chronic hepatitis B or C. Co-infected 
patients were more likely to have baseline hepatic transaminase elevations than those without chronic 
viral hepatitis. No differences in frequency of bilirubin elevations were observed between these 
patients and those without viral hepatitis. The frequency of treatment emergent hepatitis or 
transaminase elevations in co-infected patients was comparable between REYATAZ and comparator 
regimens (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Human experience of acute overdose with REYATAZ is limited. Single doses up to 1,200 mg have 
been taken by healthy volunteers without symptomatic untoward effects. At high doses that lead to 
high drug exposures, jaundice due to indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia (without associated 
liver function test changes) or PR interval prolongations may be observed (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Treatment of overdose with REYATAZ should consist of general supportive measures, including 
monitoring of vital signs and electrocardiogram (ECG), and observations of the patient's clinical 
status. If indicated, elimination of unabsorbed atazanavir should be achieved by emesis or gastric 
lavage. Administration of activated charcoal may also be used to aid removal of unabsorbed drug. 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with REYATAZ. Since atazanavir is extensively 
metabolised by the liver and is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be beneficial in significant 
removal of this medicinal product. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE08 
Mechanism of action 
Atazanavir is an azapeptide HIV-1 protease inhibitor (PI). The compound selectively inhibits the 
virus-specific processing of viral Gag-Pol proteins in HIV-1 infected cells, thus preventing formation 
of mature virions and infection of other cells. 
Antiviral activity in vitro: atazanavir exhibits anti-HIV-1 (including all clades tested) and anti-HIV-2 
activity in cell culture. 
Resistance 
Antiretroviral treatment naïve adult patients 
In clinical trials of antiretroviral treatment-naïve patients treated with unboosted atazanavir, the I50L 
substitution, sometimes in combination with an A71V change, is the signature resistance substitution 
for atazanavir. Resistance levels to atazanavir ranged from 3.5- to 29-fold without evidence of 
phenotypic cross resistance to other PIs. In clinical trials of antiretroviral treatment-naïve patients 
treated with boosted atazanavir, the I50L substitution did not emerge in any patient without baseline PI 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substitutions. The N88S substitution has been rarely observed in patients with virologic failure on 
atazanavir (with or without ritonavir). While it may contribute to decreased susceptibility to atazanavir 
when it occurs with other protease substitutions, in clinical studies N88S by itself does not always lead 
to phenotypic resistance to atazanavir or have a consistent impact on clinical efficacy. 
Table 3: 
De novo substitutions in treatment-naïve patients failing therapy with atazanavir 
+ ritonavir (Study 138, 96 weeks) 
Frequency 
> 20% 
10-20% 
a Number of patients with paired genotypes classified as virological failures (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/mL). 
de novo PI substitution (n = 26)a 
none 
none 
The M184I/V substitution emerged in 5/26 REYATAZ/ritonavir and 7/26 lopinavir/ritonavir virologic 
failure patients, respectively. 
Antiretroviral treatment experienced adult patients 
In antiretroviral treatment experienced patients from Studies 009, 043, and 045, 100 isolates from 
patients designated as virological failures on therapy that included either atazanavir, atazanavir + 
ritonavir, or atazanavir + saquinavir were determined to have developed resistance to atazanavir. Of 
the 60 isolates from patients treated with either atazanavir or atazanavir + ritonavir, 18 (30%) 
displayed the I50L phenotype previously described in naïve patients. 
Table 4: 
De novo substitutions in treatment experienced patients failing therapy with 
atazanavir + ritonavir (Study 045, 48 weeks) 
de novo PI substitution (n = 35)a,b 
Frequency 
M36, M46, I54, A71, V82 
> 20% 
L10, I15, K20, V32, E35, S37, F53, I62, G73, I84, L90 
10-20% 
a Number of patients with paired genotypes classified as virological failures (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/mL). 
b Ten patients had baseline phenotypic resistance to atazanavir + ritonavir (fold change [FC]> 5.2). FC susceptibility in cell 
culture relative to the wild-type reference was assayed using PhenoSenseTM (Monogram Biosciences, South San Francisco, 
California, USA) 
None of the de novo substitutions (see Table 4) are specific to atazanavir and may reflect re-
emergence of archived resistance on atazanavir + ritonavir in Study 045 treatment-experienced 
population. 
The resistance in antiretroviral treatment experienced patients mainly occurs by accumulation of the 
major and minor resistance substitutions described previously to be involved in protease inhibitor 
resistance. 
Clinical results 
In antiretroviral naïve adult patients 
Study 138 is an international randomised, open-label, multicenter, prospective trial of 
883 antiretroviral treatment-naïve patients comparing REYATAZ/ritonavir (300 mg/100 mg once 
daily) to lopinavir/ritonavir (400 mg/100 mg twice daily), each in combination with fixed-dose 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). The 
REYATAZ/ritonavir arm showed similar (non-inferior) antiviral efficacy compared to the 
lopinavir/ritonavir arm, as assessed by the proportion of patients with HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL at 
Week 48 (Table 5). 
Analyses of data through 96 weeks of treatment demonstrated durability of antiviral activity (Table 5). 
The mean baseline CD4 cell count was 214 cells/mm3 (range: 2 to 810 cells/mm3) and mean baseline 
plasma HIV-1 RNA was 4.94 log10 copies/mL (range: 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/mL). The 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ/ritonavir arm has similar (non-inferior) antiviral efficacy compared to the 
lopinavir/ritonavir arm, as assessed by the proportion of patients with HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL at 
Week 48: 78% of patients on REYATAZ/ritonavir compared to 76% on lopinavir/ritonavir (difference 
estimate of ATV/RTV-LPV/RTV: 1.7% [95% CI, -3.8%, 7.1%] according to the Confirmed Virologic 
Response (CVR) Non-Completer = Failure (NC = F) definition of response. 
In a per protocol analysis which excluded non-completers (i.e., patients who discontinued before the 
Week 48 HIV RNA assessment) and patients with major protocol deviations, the proportion of 
patients with HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL at Week 48 was 86% (338/392) for REYATAZ/ritonavir and 
89% (332/372) for lopinavir/ritonavir (difference estimate of ATV/RTV-LPV/RTV: -3% [95% CI, 
-7.6%, 1.5%]. 
Table 5: 
Efficacy Outcomes in Study 138a 
Parameter 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, % 
All patientsd 
Difference estimate 
[95% CI]d 
Per protocol analysise 
Difference estimatee 
[95% CI] 
REYATAZ/ritonavirb 
(300 mg/100 mg once daily) 
n = 440 
Lopinavir/ritonavirc (400 mg/100 mg 
twice daily) 
n = 443 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
78 
74 
76 
68 
86 (n = 392f) 
Week 48: 1.7% [-3.8%, 7.1%] 
Week 96: 6.1% [0.3%, 12.0%] 
89 (n = 372) 
91 (n = 352) 
Week 48: -3% [-7.6%, 1.5%] 
Week 96: 2.2% [-2.3%, 6.7%] 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, % by Baseline Characteristicd 
HIV RNA 
< 100,000 copies/mL 
≥ 100,000 copies/mL 
CD4 count 
< 50 cells/mm3 
50 to < 100 cells/mm3 
100 to < 200 cells/mm3 
≥ 200 cells/mm3 
82 (n = 217) 
74 (n = 223) 
78 (n = 58) 
76 (n = 45) 
75 (n = 106) 
80 (n = 222) 
75 (n = 217) 
74 (n = 223) 
78 (n = 58) 
71 (n = 45) 
71 (n = 106) 
76 (n = 222) 
HIV RNA Mean Change from Baseline, log10 copies/mL 
81 (n = 218) 
72 (n = 225) 
63 (n = 48) 
69 (n = 29) 
78 (n = 134) 
80 (n = 228) 
89 (n = 331) 
70 (n = 218) 
66 (n = 225) 
58 (n = 48) 
69 (n = 29) 
70 (n = 134) 
69 (n = 228) 
All patients 
-3.09 (n = 397) 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
203 (n = 370) 
All patients 
-3.21 (n = 360) 
-3.13 (n = 379) 
-3.19 (n = 340) 
268 (n = 336) 
219 (n = 363) 
290 (n = 317) 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 by Baseline Characteristic 
HIV RNA 
179 (n = 183) 
243 (n = 163) 
194 (n = 183) 
267 (n = 152) 
< 100,000 copies/mL 
≥ 100,000 copies/mL 
291 (n = 173) 
227 (n = 187) 
310 (n = 165) 
a Mean baseline CD4 cell count was 214 cells/mm3 (range 2 to 810 cells/mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV-1 RNA was 
4.94 log10 copies/mL (range 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/mL) 
b REYATAZ/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). 
c Lopinavir/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). 
d Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. 
e Per protocol analysis: Excluding non-completers and patients with major protocol deviations. 
f Number of patients evaluable. 
245 (n = 180) 
In antiretroviral experienced adult patients 
Study 045 is a randomised, multicenter trial comparing REYATAZ/ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) 
and REYATAZ/saquinavir (400/1,200 mg once daily), to lopinavir + ritonavir (400/100 mg fixed-dose 
combination twice daily), each in combination with tenofovi disoproxil fumarate (see sections 4.5 
and 4.8) and one NRTI, in patients with virologic failure on two or more prior regimens containing at 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
least one PI, NRTI, and NNRTI. For randomised patients, the mean time of prior antiretroviral 
exposure was 138 weeks for PIs, 281 weeks for NRTIs, and 85 weeks for NNRTIs. At baseline, 34% 
of patients were receiving a PI and 60% were receiving an NNRTI. Fifteen of 120 (13%) patients in 
the REYATAZ + ritonavir treatment arm and 17 of 123 (14%) patients in the lopinavir + ritonavir arm 
had four or more of the PI substitutions L10, M46, I54, V82, I84, and L90. Thirty-two percent of 
patients in the study had a viral strain with fewer than two NRTI substitutions. 
The primary endpoint was the time-averaged difference in change from baseline in HIV RNA through 
48 weeks (Table 6). 
Table 6: 
Efficacy Outcomes at Week 48a and at Week 96 (Study 045) 
Parameter 
ATV/RTVb (300 mg/100 mg 
once daily) 
n = 120 
LPV/RTVc (400 mg/100 mg 
twice daily) 
n = 123 
Time-averaged difference 
ATV/RTV-LPV/RTV 
[97.5% CId] 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
Week 48 
Week 96 
HIV RNA Mean Change from Baseline, log10 copies/mL 
All patients 
-1.93 (n = 90e) 
-2.29 
(n = 64) 
-1.87 
(n = 99) 
-2.08 
(n = 65) 
0.13 
[-0.12, 0.39] 
0.14 
[-0.13, 0.41] 
NA 
36 (43/120) 
32 (38/120) 
35 (41/118) 
42 (52/123) 
0-2 
3 
≥ 4 
48 (26/54) 
33 (5/15) 
20 (10/49) 
56 (32/57) 
38 (6/16) 
28 (14/50) 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, %f (responder/evaluable) 
NA 
All patients 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL by select baseline PI substitutions,f, g % (responder/evaluable) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
44 (28/63) 
41 (26/63) 
18 (2/11) 
9 (1/11) 
24 (11/45) 
27 (12/45) 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
All patients 
122 (n = 60) 
110 (n = 83) 
a The mean baseline CD4 cell count was 337 cells/mm3 (range: 14 to 1,543 cells/mm3) and the mean baseline plasma HIV-1 
RNA level was 4.4 log10 copies/mL (range: 2.6 to 5.88 log10 copies/mL). 
b ATV/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). 
c LPV/RTV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (fixed-dose 300 mg/200 mg tablets once daily). 
d Confidence interval. 
e Number of patients evaluable. 
f Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. Responders on LPV/RTV who completed treatment 
before Week 96 are excluded from Week 96 analysis. The proportion of patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL were 53% 
and 43% for ATV/RTV and 54% and 46% for LPV/RTV at Weeks 48 and 96 respectively. 
g Select substitutions include any change at positions L10, K20, L24, V32, L33, M36, M46, G48, I50, I54, L63, A71, G73, 
V82, I84, and L90 (0-2, 3, 4 or more) at baseline. 
NA = not applicable. 
NA 
NA 
NA 
154 (n = 60) 
121 (n = 94) 
NA 
NA 
Through 48 weeks of treatment, the mean changes from baseline in HIV RNA levels for REYATAZ + 
ritonavir and lopinavir + ritonavir were similar (non-inferior). Consistent results were obtained with 
the last observation carried forward method of analysis (time-averaged difference of 0.11, 97.5% 
confidence interval [-0.15, 0.36]). By as-treated analysis, excluding missing values, the proportions of 
patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL (< 50 copies/mL) in the REYATAZ + ritonavir arm and the 
lopinavir + ritonavir arm were 55% (40%) and 56% (46%), respectively. 
Through 96 weeks of treatment, mean HIV RNA changes from baseline for REYATAZ + ritonavir 
and lopinavir + ritonavir met criteria for non-inferiority based on observed cases. Consistent results 
were obtained with the last observation carried forward method of analysis. By as-treated analysis, 
excluding missing values, the proportions of patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL 
(< 50 copies/mL) for REYATAZ + ritonavir were 84% (72%) and for lopinavir + ritonavir were 82% 
(72%). It is important to note that at time of the 96-week analysis, 48% of patients overall remained on 
study. 
REYATAZ + saquinavir was shown to be inferior to lopinavir + ritonavir. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric trials with REYATAZ capsules 
Assessment of the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and efficacy of REYATAZ is based on data 
from the open-label, multicenter clinical trial AI424-020 conducted in patients from 3 months to 
21 years of age. Overall in this study, 182 paediatric patients (81 antiretroviral-naïve and 
101 antiretroviral-experienced) received once daily REYATAZ (capsule or powder formulation), with 
or without ritonavir, in combination with two NRTIs. 
The clinical data derived from this study are inadequate to support the use of atazanavir capsules (with 
or without ritonavir) in children below 6 years of age. 
Efficacy data observed in the 41 paediatric patients aged 6 years to less than 18 years that received 
REYATAZ capsules with ritonavir are presented in Table 7. For treatment-naïve paediatric patients, 
the mean baseline CD4 cell count was 344 cells/mm3 (range: 2 to 800 cells/mm3) and mean baseline 
plasma HIV-1 RNA was 4.67 log10 copies/mL (range: 3.70 to 5.00 log10 copies/mL). For treatment 
experienced paediatric patients, the mean baseline CD4 cell count was 522 cells/mm3 (range: 100 to 
1157 cells/mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV-1 RNA was 4.09 log10 copies/mL (range: 3.28 to 
5.00 log10 copies/mL). 
Table 7: 
Efficacy Outcomes (paediatric patients 6 years to less than 18 years of age) at 
Week 48 (Study AI424-020) 
Parameter 
Treatment-Naïve 
REYATAZ 
Capsules/ritonavir 
(300 mg/100 mg once 
daily) 
n = 16 
Treatment-Experienced 
REYATAZ 
Capsules/ritonavir 
(300 mg/100 mg once 
daily) 
n = 25 
24 (6/25) 
88 (14/16) 
81 (13/16) 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, %a 
All patients 
HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL, %a 
All patients 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
All patients 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL by select baseline PI substitutions,c % (responder/evaluabled) 
0-2 
3 
≥ 4 
a Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. 
b Number of patients evaluable. 
c PI major L24I, D30N, V32I, L33F, M46IL, I47AV, G48V, I50LV, F53LY, I54ALMSTV, L76V, V82AFLST, I84V, 
N88DS, L90M; PI minor: L10CFIRV, V11I, E35G, K43T, Q58E, A71ILTV, G73ACST, T74P, N83D, L89V. 
d Includes patients with baseline resistance data. 
NA = not applicable. 
27 (4/15) 
- 
0 (0/3) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
293 (n = 14b) 
229 (n = 14b) 
32 (8/25) 
Paediatric trials with REYATAZ oral powder 
Assessment of the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and virologic response of REYATAZ oral 
powder was based on data from two open-label, multicenter clinical trials. 
 
 
AI424-397 (PRINCE I): In paediatric patients from 3 months to less than 6 years of age 
AI424-451 (PRINCE II): In paediatric patients from 3 months to less than 11 years of age 
In these studies, 155 patients (59 antiretroviral-naïve and 96 antiretroviral-experienced) received once 
daily REYATAZ oral powder and ritonavir, in combination with two NRTIs. 
For inclusion in both trials, treatment-naïve patients had to have genotypic sensitivity to REYATAZ 
and two NRTIs, and treatment-experienced patients had to have documented genotypic and phenotypic 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sensitivity at screening to REYATAZ and at least 2 NRTIs. Patients exposed only to antiretrovirals 
in utero or intrapartum were considered treatment-naïve. Patients who received REYATAZ or 
REYATAZ/ritonavir at any time prior to study enrollment or who had a history of treatment failure on 
two or more protease inhibitors, protease inhibitor resistance or evidence of pre-existing cardiac 
abnormalities were excluded from the trials. Protease inhibitor resistance was defined as genotypic 
resistance to atazanavir or either component of the local NRTI backbone based on the criteria of 1) any 
major mutations: I50L, I84V, N88S and 2) ≥ 2 of the following minor or cross resistant mutations: 
M46I/L, G48V, I54L/V/M/T/A, V82A/T/FI, L90M, V32I. 
At Week 48 there were 134 paediatric patients aged 3 months to less than 11 years that received 
REYATAZ oral powder with ritonavir that were evaluated for efficacy. These data are presented in 
Table 8. For treatment-naïve paediatric patients, the mean baseline CD4 cell count was 930 cells/mm3 
(range: 46 to 2291 cells/mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV-1 RNA was 4.81 log10 copies/mL 
(range: 3.4 to 5.9 log10 copies/mL). For treatment-experienced paediatric patients, the mean baseline 
CD4 cell count was 1441 cells/mm3 (range: 84 to 5703 cells/mm3) and mean baseline plasma HIV-1 
RNA was 4.67 log10 copies/mL (range: 2.0 to 5.9 log10 copies/mL). 
Table 8: 
Efficacy Outcomes for oral powder (paediatric patients at least 3 months of age 
and weighing at least 5 kg) at Week 48 (Studies AI424-397 and AI424-451) 
Parameter 
Treatment-Naïve 
REYATAZ Powder/ritonavir 
n = 52 
Treatment-Experienced 
REYATAZ Powder/ritonavir 
n = 82 
HIV RNA < 50 copies/mL, %a 
at least 5 to < 10 kg 
(REYATAZ 150 and 200 mg) 
at least 10 to < 15 kg 
at least 15 to < 25 kg 
at least 25 to < 35 kg 
HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL, %a 
at least 5 to < 10 kg (REYATAZ 
150 and 200 mg) 
at least 10 to < 15 kg 
at least 15 to < 25 kg 
at least 25 to < 35 kg 
CD4 Mean Change from Baseline, cells/mm3 
at least 5 to < 10 kg (REYATAZ 
150 and 200 mg) 
at least 10 to < 15 kg 
at least 15 to < 25 kg 
at least 25 to < 35 kg 
a Intent-to-treat analysis, with missing values considered as failures. 
33 (4/12) 
59 (13/22) 
61 (11/18) 
- 
75 (9/12) 
82 (18/22) 
78 (14/18) 
- 
293 (n = 7) 
293 (n = 11) 
305 (n = 9) 
- 
52 (17/33) 
35 (6/17) 
57 (17/30) 
50.0 (1/2) 
61 (20/33) 
59 (10/17) 
67 (20/30) 
50.0 (1/2) 
63 (n = 16) 
307 (n = 8) 
374 (n = 12) 
213 (n = 1) 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption: in HIV-infected patients (n = 33, combined studies), multiple dosing of REYATAZ 
300 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food produced a geometric mean (CV%) for 
atazanavir, Cmax of 4466 (42%) ng/mL, with time to Cmax of approximately 2.5 hours. The geometric 
mean (CV%) for atazanavir Cmin and AUC was 654 (76%) ng/mL and 44185 (51%) ng•h/mL, 
respectively. 
Food effect: co-administration of REYATAZ and ritonavir with food optimises the bioavailability of 
atazanavir. Co-administration of a single 300-mg dose of REYATAZ and 100-mg dose of ritonavir 
with a light meal resulted in a 33% increase in the AUC and a 40% increase in both the Cmax and the 
24-hour concentration of atazanavir relative to the fasting state. Co-administration with a high-fat meal 
did not affect the AUC of atazanavir relative to fasting conditions and the Cmax was within 11% of 
fasting values. The 24-hour concentration following a high-fat meal was increased by approximately 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33% due to delayed absorption; the median Tmax increased from 2.0 to 5.0 hours. Administration of 
REYATAZ with ritonavir with either a light or a high-fat meal decreased the coefficient of variation 
of AUC and Cmax by approximately 25% compared to the fasting state. To enhance bioavailability and 
minimise variability, REYATAZ is to be taken with food. 
Distribution: atazanavir was approximately 86% bound to human serum proteins over a concentration 
range of 100 to 10,000 ng/mL. Atazanavir binds to both alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) and albumin 
to a similar extent (89% and 86%, respectively, at 1,000 ng/mL). In a multiple-dose study in 
HIV-infected patients dosed with 400 mg of atazanavir once daily with a light meal for 12 weeks, 
atazanavir was detected in the cerebrospinal fluid and semen. 
Metabolism: studies in humans and in vitro studies using human liver microsomes have demonstrated 
that atazanavir is principally metabolised by CYP3A4 isozyme to oxygenated metabolites. Metabolites 
are then excreted in the bile as either free or glucuronidated metabolites. Additional minor metabolic 
pathways consist of N-dealkylation and hydrolysis. Two minor metabolites of atazanavir in plasma 
have been characterised. Neither metabolite demonstrated in vitro antiviral activity. 
Elimination: following a single 400-mg dose of 14C-atazanavir, 79% and 13% of the total radioactivity 
was recovered in the faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged drug accounted for approximately 
20% and 7% of the administered dose in the faeces and urine, respectively. Mean urinary excretion of 
unchanged drug was 7% following 2 weeks of dosing at 800 mg once daily. In HIV-infected adult 
patients (n = 33, combined studies) the mean half-life within a dosing interval for atazanavir was 
12 hours at steady state following a dose of 300 mg daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with a light 
meal. 
Linearity/non-linearity: the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir were evaluated in healthy adult volunteers 
and in HIV infected patients; significant differences were observed between the two groups. The 
pharmacokinetics of atazanavir exhibit a non-linear disposition. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment: in healthy subjects, the renal elimination of unchanged atazanavir was 
approximately 7% of the administered dose. There are no pharmacokinetic data available for 
REYATAZ with ritonavir in patients with renal insufficiency. REYATAZ (without ritonavir) has been 
studied in adult patients with severe renal impairment (n = 20), including those on haemodialysis, at 
multiple doses of 400 mg once daily. Although this study presented some limitations (i.e., unbound 
drug concentrations not studied), results suggested that the atazanavir pharmacokinetic parameters 
were decreased by 30% to 50% in patients undergoing haemodialysis compared to patients with 
normal renal function. The mechanism of this decrease is unknown (see sections 4.2 and 4.4.). 
Hepatic impairment: atazanavir is metabolised and eliminated primarily by the liver. The effects of 
hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir after a 300 mg dose with ritonavir have not 
been studied. Concentrations of atazanavir with or without ritonavir are expected to be increased in 
patients with moderately or severely impaired hepatic function (see sections 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4). 
Age/Gender: a study of the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir was performed in 59 healthy male and 
female subjects (29 young, 30 elderly). There were no clinically important pharmacokinetic 
differences based on age or gender. 
Race: a population pharmacokinetic analysis of samples from Phase II clinical trials indicated no 
effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir. 
Pregnancy: 
The pharmacokinetic data from HIV-infected pregnant women receiving REYATAZ capsules with 
ritonavir are presented in Table 9. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: 
Steady-State Pharmacokinetics of Atazanavir with ritonavir in HIV-Infected 
Pregnant Women in the Fed State 
Pharmacokinetic Parameter 
Cmax ng/mL 
Geometric mean (CV%) 
AUC ng•h/mL 
Geometric mean (CV%) 
Cmin ng/mLb 
Geometric mean (CV%) 
atazanavir 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg 
3rd Trimester 
(n = 20) 
3 291.46 
(48) 
34 251.5 
(43) 
668.48 
(50) 
2nd Trimester 
(n = 9) 
3 729.09 
(39) 
34 399.1 
(37) 
663.78 
(36) 
postpartuma 
(n = 36) 
5 649.10 
(31) 
60 532.7 
(33) 
1 420.64 
(47) 
a Atazanavir peak concentrations and AUCs were found to be approximately 26-40% higher during the postpartum period 
(4-12 weeks) than those observed historically in HIV-infected, non-pregnant patients. Atazanavir plasma trough 
concentrations were approximately 2-fold higher during the postpartum period when compared to those observed historically 
in HIV-infected non-pregnant patients. 
b Cmin is concentration 24 hours post-dose. 
Paediatric population 
There is a trend toward a higher clearance in younger children when normalised for body weight. As a 
result, greater peak to trough ratios are observed; however at recommended doses, geometric mean 
atazanavir exposures (Cmin, Cmax, and AUC) in paediatric patients are expected to be similar to those 
observed in adults. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies, conducted in mice, rats, and dogs, atazanavir-related findings were 
generally confined to the liver and included generally minimal to mild increases in serum bilirubin and 
liver enzymes, hepatocellular vacuolation and hypertrophy, and, in female mice only, hepatic single-
cell necrosis. Systemic exposures of atazanavir in mice (males), rats, and dogs at doses associated with 
hepatic changes were at least equal to that observed in humans given 400 mg once daily. In female 
mice, atazanavir exposure at a dose that produced single-cell necrosis was 12 times the exposure in 
humans given 400 mg once daily. Serum cholesterol and glucose were minimally to mildly increased 
in rats but not in mice or dogs. 
During in vitro studies, cloned human cardiac potassium channel (hERG), was inhibited by 15% at a 
concentration (30 μM) of atazanavir corresponding to 30-fold the free drug concentration at Cmax in 
humans. Similar concentrations of atazanavir increased by 13% the action potential duration (APD90) 
in rabbit Purkinje fibres study. Electrocardiographic changes (sinus bradycardia, prolongation of PR 
interval, prolongation of QT interval, and prolongation of QRS complex) were observed only in an 
initial 2-week oral toxicity study performed in dogs. Subsequent 9-month oral toxicity studies in dogs 
showed no drug-related electrocardiographic changes. The clinical relevance of these non-clinical data 
is unknown. Potential cardiac effects of this product in humans cannot be ruled out (see sections 4.4 
and 4.8). The potential for PR prolongation should be considered in cases of overdose 
(see section 4.9). 
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, atazanavir altered oestrus cycling with no 
effects on mating or fertility. No teratogenic effects were observed in rats or rabbits at maternally toxic 
doses. In pregnant rabbits, gross lesions of the stomach and intestines were observed in dead or 
moribund does at maternal doses 2 and 4 times the highest dose administered in the definitive embryo-
development study. In the pre- and postnatal development assessment in rats, atazanavir produced a 
transient reduction in body weight in the offspring at a maternally toxic dose. Systemic exposure to 
atazanavir at doses that resulted in maternal toxicity was at least equal to or slightly greater than that 
observed in humans given 400 mg once daily. 
Atazanavir was negative in an Ames reverse-mutation assay but did induce chromosomal aberrations 
in vitro in both the absence and presence of metabolic activation. In in vivo studies in rats, atazanavir 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
did not induce micronuclei in bone marrow, DNA damage in duodenum (comet assay), or unscheduled 
DNA repair in liver at plasma and tissue concentrations exceeding those that were clastogenic in vitro. 
In long-term carcinogenicity studies of atazanavir in mice and rats, an increased incidence of benign 
hepatic adenomas was seen in female mice only. The increased incidence of benign hepatic adenomas 
in female mice was likely secondary to cytotoxic liver changes manifested by single-cell necrosis and 
is considered to have no relevance for humans at intended therapeutic exposures. There were no 
tumorigenic findings in male mice or in rats. 
Atazanavir increased opacity of bovine corneas in an in vitro ocular irritation study, indicating it may 
be an ocular irritant upon direct contact with the eye. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Aspartame (E951) 
Sucrose 
Orange vanilla flavour 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
After mixing with food or beverage, mixture may be stored for up to 1 hour at temperatures not 
above 30°C. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
REYATAZ oral powder should be stored in the original sachet and should not be opened until ready to 
use. 
For storage conditions after mixing of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Polyester film/Aluminum/Polyethylene sealant film sachet. 
Each carton contains 30 sachets. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use: 
The dose and the number of REYATAZ oral powder sachets needed is determined based on weight 
(see section 4.2.). 
1. 
Prior to mixing, the sachet is tapped to settle the powder. A clean pair of scissors is used to cut 
each sachet along the dotted line. 
The appropriate option listed below is chosen for mixing and administration with liquid infant 
formula, beverage or food. Larger volumes or quantities of liquid infant formula, beverage or 
2. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
food may be used for dosing. It should be ensured that the patient eats or drinks all the infant 
formula, beverage or food that contains the powder. 
A: 
To mix the recommended number of REYATAZ oral powder sachets with liquid infant 
formula in a small medicine cup or small container and to administer with an oral syringe, 
which can be obtained from a pharmacist: 
 
A spoon is used to mix the content of the appropriate number of sachets (4 or 
5 sachets depending on infant weight) with 10 mL of prepared liquid infant 
formula in the medicine cup or small container. The full amount of the mixture is 
drawn up into an oral syringe and administered into either right or left inner cheek 
of the infant. Another 10 mL of formula is poured into the medicine cup or small 
container to rinse off remaining REYATAZ oral powder in the cup or container. 
The residual mixture is drawn up into the syringe and administered into either the 
right or left inner cheek of the infant. 
B: 
C: 
To mix the recommended number of REYATAZ oral powder sachets with a beverage 
such as milk or water in a small drinking cup: 
 
A spoon is used to mix the content of the sachets with 30 mL of the beverage. The 
child is to drink the mixture. An additional 15 mL of beverage is added to the 
drinking cup for thorough rinsing of the cup and contents are mixed. The child is to 
drink the entire residual mixture. 
If water is used, food should also be taken at the same time. 
 
To mix the recommended number of REYATAZ oral powder sachets with food such as 
applesauce or yogurt in a small container: 
 
One tablespoon of food is used to mix the content of the sachets. The mixture is fed 
to the infant or young child. An additional tablespoon of food is added to the small 
container for thorough delivery of the powder from the container and contents are 
mixed.The entire residual mixture is fed to the child. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
The entire dosage of REYATAZ oral powder (mixed in the liquid infant formula, beverage or 
food) is administered within one hour of preparation (the mixture can be left at room stored at 
temperatures not above 30°C during this period). 
Additional infant formula, beverage or food may be given after consumption of the entire 
mixture. 
Ritonavir is administered immediately following REYATAZ powder administration. 
For further details on the preparation and administration of the REYATAZ oral powder, see the 
Patient Information Leaflet, Instructions for Use section 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/03/267/012 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 02 March 2004 
Date of latest renewal: 06 February 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
{MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
CATALENT ANAGNI S.R.L. 
Loc. Fontana del Ceraso snc 
Strada Provinciale 12 Casilina, 41 
03012 Anagni (FR) 
Italy 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Operations, 
External Manufacturing 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Lawrence Laboratories 
Unit 12 & 15, Distribution Centre 
Shannon Industrial Estate 
Shannon, Co. Clare, V14 DD39 
Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON TEXT (BOTTLE AND BLISTER PRESENTATIONS) AND BOTTLE 
LABEL TEXT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 100 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: contains lactose (see leaflet for further information). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Carton and label bottle pack (1 bottle): 60 hard capsules 
Blister pack: 60 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Bottle pack: 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Blister pack: 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Bottle pack: 
60 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/001 
Blister pack: 
60 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Outer carton: REYATAZ 100 mg 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB PHARMA EEIG 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON TEXT (BOTTLE AND BLISTER PRESENTATIONS) AND BOTTLE 
LABEL TEXT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 150 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: contains lactose (see leaflet for further information). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Carton and label bottle pack (1 bottle): 60 hard capsules 
Blister pack: 60 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Bottle pack: 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Blister pack: 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Bottle pack: 
60 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/003 
Blister pack: 
60 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/004 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Outer carton: REYATAZ 150 mg 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB PHARMA EEIG 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON TEXT (BOTTLE AND BLISTER PRESENTATIONS) AND BOTTLE 
LABEL TEXT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 200 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: contains lactose (see leaflet for further information). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Carton Bottle pack: (1 bottle): 60 hard capsules 
Carton Bottle pack: (3 bottles): 3 x 60 hard capsules (3 bottles of 60 hard capsules) 
Label Bottle pack: 60 hard capsules 
Blister pack: 60 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Bottle pack: 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Blister pack: 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Bottle pack: 
60 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/005 
3 x 60 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/011 
Blister pack: 
60 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Outer carton: REYATAZ 200 mg 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB PHARMA EEIG 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON TEXT (BOTTLE AND BLISTER PRESENTATIONS) AND BOTTLE 
LABEL TEXT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 300 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: contains lactose (see leaflet for further information). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Carton Bottle pack: (1 bottle): 30 hard capsules 
Carton Bottle pack: (3 bottles): 3 x 30 hard capsules (3 bottles of 30 hard capsules) 
Label Bottle pack: 30 hard capsules 
Blister pack: 30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Capsules should be swallowed whole. Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Bottle pack: 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Blister pack: 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Bottle pack: 
30 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/008 
3 x 30 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/010 
Blister pack: 
30 hard capsules: EU/1/03/267/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Outer carton: REYATAZ 300 mg 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB PHARMA EEIG 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON TEXT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
REYATAZ 50 mg oral powder 
atazanavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sachet contains 50 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains aspartame and sucrose. See leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral Powder 
30 sachets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Does not require any special storage conditions. 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/03/267/012 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Outer carton: REYATAZ 50 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
REYATAZ 50 mg ORAL POWDER - FOIL SACHET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
REYATAZ 50 mg oral powder 
Atazanavir 
Oral use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
50 mg 
6. 
OTHER 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. 
It may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What REYATAZ is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Possible side effects 
How to store REYATAZ 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What REYATAZ is and What it is used for 
REYATAZ is an antiviral (or antiretroviral) medicine. It is one of a group called protease 
inhibitors. These medicines control Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection by stopping a 
protein that the HIV needs for its multiplication. They work by reducing the amount of HIV in your 
body and this in turn, strengthens your immune system. In this way REYATAZ reduces the risk of 
developing illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
REYATAZ capsules may be used by adults and children 6 years of age and older. Your doctor has 
prescribed REYATAZ for you because you are infected by the HIV that causes Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). It is normally used in combination with other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of these medicines with REYATAZ 
is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
Do not take REYATAZ 
 
 
 
if you are allergic to atazanavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you have moderate to severe liver problems. Your doctor will evaluate how severe your 
liver disease is before deciding whether you can take REYATAZ 
if you are taking any of these medicines: see also Other medicines and REYATAZ 
 
 
rifampicin (an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis) 
astemizole or terfenadine (commonly used to treat allergy symptoms, these medicines 
may be available without prescription); cisapride (used to treat gastric reflux, sometimes 
called heartburn); pimozide (used to treat schizophrenia); quinidine or bepridil (used to 
correct heart rhythm); ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine 
(used to treat headaches); and alfuzosin (used to treat enlarged prostatic gland) 
quetiapine (used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder); 
lurasidone (used to treat schizophrenia) 
medicines containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum, a herbal preparation) 
 
 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam (used to help you sleep and/or to relieve 
anxiety) 
lomitapide, simvastatin, and lovastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose combination, 
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (used to treat chronic hepatitis C 
infection) 
apalutamide (used to treat prostate cancer) 
Do not take sildenafil with REYATAZ when sildenafil is used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil is also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Tell your doctor if you 
are using sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
Tell your doctor at once if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
REYATAZ is not a cure for HIV infection. You may continue to develop infections or other 
illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
Some people will need special care before or while taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking REYATAZ and make sure your doctor knows: 
 
 
 
 
if you have hepatitis B or C 
if you develop signs or symptoms of gall stones (pain at the right side of your stomach) 
if you have type A or B haemophilia 
if you require haemodialysis 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones have been reported in patients taking REYATAZ. If you develop signs or symptoms of 
kidney stones (pain in your side, blood in your urine, pain when you urinate), please inform your 
doctor immediately. 
In some patients with advanced HIV infection (AIDS) and a history of opportunistic infection, signs 
and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is 
started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an improvement in the body’s immune response, 
enabling the body to fight infections that may have been present with no obvious symptoms. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection, please inform your doctor immediately. In addition to the 
opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when the immune system 
attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines for the treatment of your 
HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after the start of treatment. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as muscle weakness, weakness beginning in 
hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body, palpitations, tremor, or hyperactivity, 
please inform your doctor immediately to seek necessary treatment. 
Some patients taking combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called 
osteonecrosis (death of bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of 
combination antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe 
immunosuppression, higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for 
developing this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches, and pains (especially of the 
hip, knee, and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor. 
Hyperbilirubinaemia (an increase in the level of bilirubin in the blood) has occurred in patients 
receiving REYATAZ. The signs may be a mild yellowing of the skin or eyes. If you notice any of 
these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious skin rash, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, has been reported in patients taking 
REYATAZ. If you develop a rash inform your doctor immediately. 
If you notice a change in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm changes), please inform your doctor. 
Children receiving REYATAZ may require their heart to be monitored. Your child's doctor will decide 
this. 
Children 
Do not give this medicine to children younger than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg. The 
use of REYATAZ in children less than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg has not been 
studied due to the risk of serious complications. 
Other medicines and REYATAZ 
You must not take REYATAZ with certain medicines. These are listed under Do not take 
REYATAZ, at the start of Section 2. 
There are other medicines that may not mix with REYATAZ. Tell your doctor if you are taking, have 
recently taken, or might take any other medicines. It is especially important to mention these: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other medicines to treat HIV infection (e.g., indinavir, nevirapine, and efavirenz) 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (used to treat hepatitis C) 
sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil (used by men to treat impotence (erectile dysfunction)) 
if you are taking an oral contraceptive ("the Pill") with REYATAZ to prevent pregnancy, be 
sure to take it exactly as instructed by your doctor and not miss any doses 
any medicines used to treat diseases related to the acid in the stomach (e.g., antacids to be taken 
1 hour before taking REYATAZ or 2 hours after taking REYATAZ, H2-blockers like 
famotidine and proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole) 
medicines to lower blood pressure, to slow heart rate, or to correct heart rhythm (amiodarone, 
diltiazem, systemic lidocaine, verapamil) 
atorvastatin, pravastatin, and fluvastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
salmeterol (used to treat asthma) 
cyclosporin, tacrolimus, and sirolimus (medicines to decrease the effects of body's immune 
system) 
certain antibiotics (rifabutin, clarithromycin) 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, and voriconazole (antifungals) 
apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel, prasugrel, and ticagrelor 
(used to reduce blood clots) 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and lamotrigine (antiepileptics) 
encorafenib, ivosidenib, and irinotecan (used to treat cancer) 
elagolix (gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonists, used to treat severe pain from 
endometriosis) 
fostamatinib (used to treat chronic immune thrombocytopenia) 
sedative agents (e.g., midazolam administered by injection) 
buprenorphine (used to treat opioid addiction and pain) 
corticosteroids (all routes of administration; including dexamethasone). 
Some medicines may interact with ritonavir, a medicine that is taken with REYATAZ. It is important 
to tell your doctor if you are taking an inhaled or nasal (given in the nose) corticosteroid, including 
fluticasone or budesonide (given to treat allergic symptoms or asthma). 
REYATAZ with food and drink 
It is important that you take REYATAZ with food (a meal or a substantial snack) as this helps the 
body absorb the medicine. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or think that you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Atazanavir, the active substance of REYATAZ, is excreted in human milk. Patients should not breast-
feed while taking REYATAZ. 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. 
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as 
soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel dizzy or lightheaded, do not drive or use machines and contact your doctor immediately. 
REYATAZ contains lactose. 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars (e.g., lactose), 
contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
3. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. This way, you can be sure your medicine is fully effective and you reduce the risk of the virus 
developing resistance to the treatment. 
The recommended adult dose of REYATAZ capsules is 300 mg once daily with 100 mg ritonavir 
once daily and with food, in combination with other anti-HIV medicines. Your doctor may adjust the 
dose of REYATAZ according to your anti-HIV therapy. 
For children (6 to less than 18 years of age), your child's doctor will decide the right dose based 
on your child's weight. The dose of REYATAZ capsules for children is calculated by body weight 
and is taken once daily with food and 100 mg ritonavir as shown below: 
Body Weight 
(kg) 
15 to less than 35 
at least 35 
REYATAZ Dose once daily 
(mg) 
200 
300 
Ritonavir Dose* once daily 
(mg) 
100 
100 
*Ritonavir capsules, tablets, or oral solution may be used. 
REYATAZ is also available as an oral powder for use in children at least 3 months old and weighing 
at least 5 kg. Switching to REYATAZ capsules from REYATAZ oral powder is encouraged as soon as 
patients are able to consistently swallow capsules. 
A change in dose may occur when switching between oral powder and capsules. Your doctor will 
decide the right dose based on your child’s weight. 
There are no dosing recommendations for REYATAZ in paediatric patients less than 3 months of age. 
Take REYATAZ capsules with food (a meal or a substantial snack). Swallow the capsules whole. 
Do not open the capsules. 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you take more REYATAZ than you should 
Yellowing of the skin and/or eyes (jaundice) and irregular heart beat (QTc prolongation) may occur if 
you or your child take too much REYATAZ. 
If you accidentally take more REYATAZ capsules than your doctor recommended, contact your HIV 
doctor at once or contact the nearest hospital for advice. 
If you forget to take REYATAZ 
If you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as possible with food and then take your next 
scheduled dose at its regular time. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the missed dose. 
Wait and take the next dose at its regular time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking REYATAZ 
Do not stop taking REYATAZ before talking to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. When 
treating HIV infection, it is not always easy to identify what side effects are caused by REYATAZ, by 
the other medicines you are taking, or by the HIV infection itself. Tell your doctor if you notice 
anything unusual about your health. 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following serious side effects: 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin rash, itching that may occasionally be severe has been reported. The rash usually 
disappears within 2 weeks without any change to your REYATAZ treatment. Severe rash may 
be developed in association with other symptoms which could be serious. Stop taking 
REYATAZ and talk to your doctor immediately if you develop a severe rash or a rash with flu-
like illness symptoms, blisters, fever, mouth sores, muscle or joint pain, swelling in the face, 
inflammation of the eye which causes redness (conjunctivitis), painful, warm, or red lumps 
(nodules). 
Yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes caused by high levels of bilirubin in your 
blood has been commonly reported. This side effect is usually not dangerous in adults and 
infants older than 3 months of age; but it might be a symptom of a serious problem. If your skin 
or the white part of your eyes turns yellow, talk to your doctor immediately. 
Changes in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm change) may occasionally happen. Talk to 
your doctor immediately if you get dizzy, lightheaded or if you suddenly faint. These could be 
symptoms of a serious heart problem. 
Liver problems may uncommonly happen. Your doctor should do blood tests prior you start 
REYATAZ and during treatment. If you have liver problems, including hepatitis B or C 
infection, you may experience a worsening of your liver problems. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get dark (tea-colored) urine, itching, yellowing of your skin or the white part 
of your eyes, pain around the stomach, pale-colored stools, or nausea. 
Gallbladder problems uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Symptoms of 
gallbladder problems may include pain in the right or middle upper stomach area, nausea, 
vomiting, fever, or yellowing your skin or the white part of your eyes. 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get symptoms of kidney stones which may include, pain in your low back or 
low stomach area, blood in your urine, or pain when you urinate. 
Other side effects reported for patients treated with REYATAZ are the following: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
 
 
headache 
vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach pain of discomfort), nausea, dyspepsia 
(indigestion) 
fatigue (extreme tiredness) 
 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peripheral neuropathy (numbness, weakness, tingling or pain in the arms and legs) 
hypersensitivity (allergic reaction) 
asthenia (unusual tiredness or weakness) 
weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia (loss of appetite), appetite increased 
depression, anxiety, sleep disorder 
disorientation, amnesia (loss of memory), dizziness, somnolence (sleepiness), abnormal dream 
syncope (fainting), hypertension (high blood pressure) 
dyspnoea (shortness of breath) 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), stomatitis 
aphthous (mouth ulcers and cold sores), dysgeusia (impairment of the sense of taste), flatulence 
(wind), dry mouth, abdominal distension 
angioedema (severe swelling of the skin and other tissues most often the lips or the eyes) 
alopecia (unusual hair loss or thinning), pruritus (itching) 
muscle atrophy (muscle shrinkage), arthralgia (joint pain), myalgia (aching muscles) 
interstitial nephritis (kidney inflammation), haematuria (blood in the urine), proteinuria (excess 
protein in the urine), pollakiuria (increased frequency of urination) 
gynaecomastia (breast enlargement in men) 
chest pain, malaise (generally feeling unwell), fever 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
gait disturbance (abnormal manner of walking) 
oedema (swelling) 
hepatosplenomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
 
 
 
  myopathy (aching muscles, muscle tenderness of weakness, not caused by exercise) 
 
kidney pain 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store REYATAZ 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label, carton or blister. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What REYATAZ contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is atazanavir. Each capsule contains 100 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
The other ingredients are crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, and magnesium stearate. The 
capsule shell and printing ink contain gelatin, shellac, ammonium hydroxide, simethicone, 
propylene glycol, indigocarmin (E132), and titanium dioxide (E171). 
What REYATAZ looks like and contents of the pack 
Each capsule of REYATAZ 100 mg contains 100 mg atazanavir. 
Opaque blue and white capsule printed with white and blue inks, with "BMS 100 mg" on one half and 
with "3623" on the other half. 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules are supplied in bottles of 60 capsules. 
REYATAZ 100 mg hard capsules are also supplied in blister strips in packs of 60 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed in all countries. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
CATALENT ANAGNI S.R.L. 
Loc. Fontana del Ceraso snc 
Strada Provinciale 12 Casilina, 41 
03012 Anagni (FR) 
Italy 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Operations, 
External Manufacturing 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. 
It may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What REYATAZ is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Possible side effects 
How to store REYATAZ 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What REYATAZ is and What it is used for 
REYATAZ is an antiviral (or antiretroviral) medicine. It is one of a group called protease 
inhibitors. These medicines control Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection by stopping a 
protein that the HIV needs for its multiplication. They work by reducing the amount of HIV in your 
body and this in turn, strengthens your immune system. In this way REYATAZ reduces the risk of 
developing illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
REYATAZ capsules may be used by adults and children 6 years of age and older. Your doctor has 
prescribed REYATAZ for you because you are infected by the HIV that causes Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). It is normally used in combination with other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of these medicines with REYATAZ 
is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
Do not take REYATAZ 
 
 
 
if you are allergic to atazanavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you have moderate to severe liver problems. Your doctor will evaluate how severe your 
liver disease is before deciding whether you can take REYATAZ 
if you are taking any of these medicines: see also Other medicines and REYATAZ 
 
 
rifampicin (an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis) 
astemizole or terfenadine (commonly used to treat allergy symptoms, these medicines 
may be available without prescription); cisapride (used to treat gastric reflux, sometimes 
called heartburn); pimozide (used to treat schizophrenia); quinidine or bepridil (used to 
correct heart rhythm); ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine 
(used to treat headaches); and alfuzosin (used to treat enlarged prostatic gland) 
quetiapine (used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder); 
lurasidone (used to treat schizophrenia) 
medicines containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum, a herbal preparation) 
 
 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam (used to help you sleep and/or to relieve 
anxiety) 
lomitapide, simvastatin, and lovastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose combination, 
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (used to treat chronic hepatitis C 
infection) 
apalutamide (used to treat prostate cancer) 
Do not take sildenafil with REYATAZ when sildenafil is used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil is also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Tell your doctor if you 
are using sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
Tell your doctor at once if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
REYATAZ is not a cure for HIV infection. You may continue to develop infections or other 
illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
Some people will need special care before or while taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking REYATAZ and make sure your doctor knows: 
 
 
 
 
if you have hepatitis B or C 
if you develop signs or symptoms of gall stones (pain at the right side of your stomach) 
if you have type A or B haemophilia 
if you require haemodialysis 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones have been reported in patients taking REYATAZ. If you develop signs or symptoms of 
kidney stones (pain in your side, blood in your urine, pain when you urinate), please inform your 
doctor immediately. 
In some patients with advanced HIV infection (AIDS) and a history of opportunistic infection, signs 
and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is 
started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an improvement in the body’s immune response, 
enabling the body to fight infections that may have been present with no obvious symptoms. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection, please inform your doctor immediately. In addition to the 
opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when the immune system 
attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines for the treatment of your 
HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after the start of treatment. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as muscle weakness, weakness beginning in 
hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body, palpitations, tremor, or hyperactivity, 
please inform your doctor immediately to seek necessary treatment. 
Some patients taking combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called 
osteonecrosis (death of bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of 
combination antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe 
immunosuppression, higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for 
developing this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the 
hip, knee and shoulder), and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor. 
Hyperbilirubinaemia (an increase in the level of bilirubin in the blood) has occurred in patients 
receiving REYATAZ. The signs may be a mild yellowing of the skin or eyes. If you notice any of 
these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious skin rash, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, has been reported in patients taking 
REYATAZ. If you develop a rash inform your doctor immediately. 
If you notice a change in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm changes), please inform your doctor. 
Children receiving REYATAZ may require their heart to be monitored. Your child's doctor will decide 
this. 
Children 
Do not give this medicine to children younger than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg. The 
use of REYATAZ in children less than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg has not been 
studied due to the risk of serious complications. 
Other medicines and REYATAZ 
You must not take REYATAZ with certain medicines. These are listed under Do not take 
REYATAZ, at the start of Section 2. 
There are other medicines that may not mix with REYATAZ. Tell your doctor if you are taking, have 
recently taken, or might take any other medicines. It is especially important to mention these: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other medicines to treat HIV infection (e.g., indinavir, nevirapine, and efavirenz) 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (used to treat hepatitis C) 
sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil (used by men to treat impotence (erectile dysfunction)) 
if you are taking an oral contraceptive ("the Pill") with REYATAZ to prevent pregnancy, be 
sure to take it exactly as instructed by your doctor and not miss any doses 
any medicines used to treat diseases related to the acid in the stomach (e.g., antacids to be taken 
1 hour before taking REYATAZ or 2 hours after taking REYATAZ, H2-blockers like 
famotidine and proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole) 
medicines to lower blood pressure, to slow heart rate, or to correct heart rhythm (amiodarone, 
diltiazem, systemic lidocaine, verapamil) 
atorvastatin, pravastatin, and fluvastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
salmeterol (used to treat asthma) 
cyclosporin, tacrolimus, and sirolimus (medicines to decrease the effects of body's immune 
system) 
certain antibiotics (rifabutin, clarithromycin) 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, and voriconazole (antifungals) 
apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel, prasugrel, and ticagrelor 
(used to reduce blood clots) 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and lamotrigine (antiepileptics) 
encorafenib, ivosidenib, and irinotecan (used to treat cancer) 
elagolix (gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonists, used to treat severe pain from 
endometriosis) 
fostamatinib (used to treat chronic immune thrombocytopenia) 
sedative agents (e.g., midazolam administered by injection) 
buprenorphine (used to treat opioid addiction and pain) 
corticosteroids (all routes of administration; including dexamethasone). 
Some medicines may interact with ritonavir, a medicine that is taken with REYATAZ. It is important 
to tell your doctor if you are taking an inhaled or nasal (given in the nose) corticosteroid, including 
fluticasone or budesonide (given to treat allergic symptoms or asthma). 
REYATAZ with food and drink 
It is important that you take REYATAZ with food (a meal or a substantial snack) as this helps the 
body absorb the medicine. 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or think that you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Atazanavir, the active substance of REYATAZ, is excreted in human milk. Patients should not breast-
feed while taking REYATAZ. 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. 
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as 
soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel dizzy or lightheaded, do not drive or use machines and contact your doctor immediately. 
REYATAZ contains lactose. 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars (e.g., lactose), 
contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
3. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. This way, you can be sure your medicine is fully effective and you reduce the risk of the virus 
developing resistance to the treatment. 
The recommended adult dose of REYATAZ capsules is 300 mg once daily with 100 mg ritonavir 
once daily and with food, in combination with other anti-HIV medicines. Your doctor may adjust the 
dose of REYATAZ according to your anti-HIV therapy. 
For children (6 to less than 18 years of age), your child's doctor will decide the right dose based 
on your child's weight. The dose of REYATAZ capsules for children is calculated by body weight 
and is taken once daily with food and 100 mg ritonavir as shown below: 
Body Weight 
(kg) 
15 to less than 35 
at least 35 
REYATAZ Dose once daily 
(mg) 
200 
300 
Ritonavir Dose* once daily 
(mg) 
100 
100 
*Ritonavir capsules, tablets, or oral solution may be used. 
REYATAZ is also available as an oral powder for use in children at least 3 months old and weighing 
at least 5 kg. Switching to REYATAZ capsules from REYATAZ oral powder is encouraged as soon as 
patients are able to consistently swallow capsules. 
A change in dose may occur when switching between oral powder and capsules. Your doctor will 
decide the right dose based on your child’s weight. 
There are no dosing recommendations for REYATAZ in paediatric patients less than 3 months of age. 
Take REYATAZ capsules with food (a meal or a substantial snack). Swallow the capsules whole. 
Do not open the capsules. 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you take more REYATAZ than you should 
Yellowing of the skin and/or eyes (jaundice) and irregular heart beat (QTc prolongation) may occur if 
you or your child take too much REYATAZ. 
If you accidentally take more REYATAZ capsules than your doctor recommended, contact your HIV 
doctor at once or contact the nearest hospital for advice. 
If you forget to take REYATAZ 
If you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as possible with food and then take your next 
scheduled dose at its regular time. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the missed dose. 
Wait and take the next dose at its regular time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking REYATAZ 
Do not stop taking REYATAZ before talking to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. When 
treating HIV infection, it is not always easy to identify what side effects are caused by REYATAZ, by 
the other medicines you are taking, or by the HIV infection itself. Tell your doctor if you notice 
anything unusual about your health. 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following serious side effects: 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin rash, itching that may occasionally be severe has been reported. The rash usually 
disappears within 2 weeks without any change to your REYATAZ treatment. Severe rash may 
be developed in association with other symptoms which could be serious. Stop taking 
REYATAZ and talk to your doctor immediately if you develop a severe rash or a rash with flu-
like illness symptoms, blisters, fever, mouth sores, muscle or joint pain, swelling in the face, 
inflammation of the eye which causes redness (conjunctivitis), painful, warm, or red lumps 
(nodules). 
Yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes caused by high levels of bilirubin in your 
blood has been commonly reported. This side effect is usually not dangerous in adults and 
infants older than 3 months of age; but it might be a symptom of a serious problem. If your skin 
or the white part of your eyes turns yellow, talk to your doctor immediately. 
Changes in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm change) may occasionally happen. Talk to 
your doctor immediately if you get dizzy, lightheaded or if you suddenly faint. These could be 
symptoms of a serious heart problem. 
Liver problems may uncommonly happen. Your doctor should do blood tests prior you start 
REYATAZ and during treatment. If you have liver problems, including hepatitis B or C 
infection, you may experience a worsening of your liver problems. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get dark (tea-colored) urine, itching, yellowing of your skin or the white part 
of your eyes, pain around the stomach, pale-colored stools, or nausea. 
Gallbladder problems uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Symptoms of 
gallbladder problems may include pain in the right or middle upper stomach area, nausea, 
vomiting, fever, or yellowing your skin or the white part of your eyes. 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get symptoms of kidney stones which may include, pain in your low back or 
low stomach area, blood in your urine, or pain when you urinate. 
Other side effects reported for patients treated with REYATAZ are the following: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
 
 
headache 
vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach pain of discomfort), nausea, dyspepsia 
(indigestion) 
fatigue (extreme tiredness) 
 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peripheral neuropathy (numbness, weakness, tingling or pain in the arms and legs) 
hypersensitivity (allergic reaction) 
asthenia (unusual tiredness or weakness) 
weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia (loss of appetite), appetite increased 
depression, anxiety, sleep disorder 
disorientation, amnesia (loss of memory), dizziness, somnolence (sleepiness), abnormal dream 
syncope (fainting), hypertension (high blood pressure) 
dyspnoea (shortness of breath) 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), stomatitis 
aphthous (mouth ulcers and cold sores), dysgeusia (impairment of the sense of taste), flatulence 
(wind), dry mouth, abdominal distension 
angioedema (severe swelling of the skin and other tissues most often the lips or the eyes) 
alopecia (unusual hair loss or thinning), pruritus (itching) 
muscle atrophy (muscle shrinkage), arthralgia (joint pain), myalgia (aching muscles) 
, interstitial nephritis (kidney inflammation), haematuria (blood in the urine), proteinuria (excess 
protein in the urine), pollakiuria (increased frequency of urination) 
gynaecomastia (breast enlargement in men) 
chest pain, malaise (generally feeling unwell), fever 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
gait disturbance (abnormal manner of walking) 
oedema (swelling) 
hepatosplenomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen) 
myopathy (aching muscles, muscle tenderness of weakness, not caused by exercise) 
kidney pain 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store REYATAZ 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label, carton, or blister. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What REYATAZ contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is atazanavir. Each capsule contains 150 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
The other ingredients are crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, and magnesium stearate. The 
capsule shell and printing ink contain gelatin, shellac, ammonium hydroxide, simethicone, 
propylene glycol, indigocarmin (E132), and titanium dioxide (E171). 
What REYATAZ looks like and contents of the pack 
Each capsule of REYATAZ 150 mg contains 150 mg atazanavir. 
Opaque blue and powder blue capsule printed with white and blue inks, with "BMS 150 mg" on one 
half and with "3624" on the other half. 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules are supplied in bottles of 60 capsules. 
REYATAZ 150 mg hard capsules are also supplied in blister strips in packs of 60 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed in all countries. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
CATALENT ANAGNI S.R.L. 
Loc. Fontana del Ceraso snc 
Strada Provinciale 12 Casilina, 41 
03012 Anagni (FR) 
Italy 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Operations, 
External Manufacturing 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. 
It may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What REYATAZ is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Possible side effects 
How to store REYATAZ 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What REYATAZ is and What it is used for 
REYATAZ is an antiviral (or antiretroviral) medicine. It is one of a group called protease 
inhibitors. These medicines control Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection by stopping a 
protein that the HIV needs for its multiplication. They work by reducing the amount of HIV in your 
body and this in turn, strengthens your immune system. In this way REYATAZ reduces the risk of 
developing illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
REYATAZ capsules may be used by adults and children 6 years of age and older. Your doctor has 
prescribed REYATAZ for you because you are infected by the HIV that causes Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). It is normally used in combination with other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of these medicines with REYATAZ 
is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
Do not take REYATAZ 
 
 
 
if you are allergic to atazanavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you have moderate to severe liver problems. Your doctor will evaluate how severe your 
liver disease is before deciding whether you can take REYATAZ 
if you are taking any of these medicines: see also Other medicines and REYATAZ 
 
 
rifampicin (an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis) 
astemizole or terfenadine (commonly used to treat allergy symptoms, these medicines 
may be available without prescription); cisapride (used to treat gastric reflux, sometimes 
called heartburn); pimozide (used to treat schizophrenia); quinidine or bepridil (used to 
correct heart rhythm); ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine 
(used to treat headaches); and alfuzosin (used to treat enlarged prostatic gland) 
quetiapine (used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder); 
lurasidone (used to treat schizophrenia) 
medicines containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum, a herbal preparation) 
 
 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam (used to help you sleep and/or to relieve 
anxiety) 
lomitapide, simvastatin, and lovastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose combination, 
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (used to treat chronic hepatitis C 
infection) 
apalutamide (used to treat prostate cancer) 
Do not take sildenafil with REYATAZ when sildenafil is used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil is also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Tell your doctor if you 
are using sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
Tell your doctor at once if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
REYATAZ is not a cure for HIV infection. You may continue to develop infections or other 
illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
Some people will need special care before or while taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking REYATAZ and make sure your doctor knows: 
 
 
 
 
if you have hepatitis B or C 
if you develop signs or symptoms of gall stones (pain at the right side of your stomach) 
if you have type A or B haemophilia 
if you require haemodialysis 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones have been reported in patients taking REYATAZ. If you develop signs or symptoms of 
kidney stones (pain in your side, blood in your urine, pain when you urinate), please inform your 
doctor immediately. 
In some patients with advanced HIV infection (AIDS) and a history of opportunistic infection, signs 
and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is 
started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an improvement in the body’s immune response, 
enabling the body to fight infections that may have been present with no obvious symptoms. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection, please inform your doctor immediately. In addition to the 
opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when the immune system 
attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines for the treatment of your 
HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after the start of treatment. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as muscle weakness, weakness beginning in 
hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body, palpitations, tremor, or hyperactivity, 
please inform your doctor immediately to seek necessary treatment. 
Some patients taking combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called 
osteonecrosis (death of bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of 
combination antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe 
immunosuppression, higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for 
developing this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the 
hip, knee and shoulder), and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor. 
Hyperbilirubinaemia (an increase in the level of bilirubin in the blood) has occurred in patients 
receiving REYATAZ. The signs may be a mild yellowing of the skin or eyes. If you notice any of 
these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious skin rash, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, has been reported in patients taking 
REYATAZ. If you develop a rash inform your doctor immediately. 
If you notice a change in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm changes), please inform your doctor. 
Children receiving REYATAZ may require their heart to be monitored. Your child's doctor will decide 
this. 
Children 
Do not give this medicine to children younger than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg. The 
use of REYATAZ in children less than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg has not been 
studied due to the risk of serious complications. 
Other medicines and REYATAZ 
You must not take REYATAZ with certain medicines. These are listed under Do not take 
REYATAZ, at the start of Section 2. 
There are other medicines that may not mix with REYATAZ. Tell your doctor if you are taking, have 
recently taken, or might take any other medicines. It is especially important to mention these: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other medicines to treat HIV infection (e.g., indinavir, nevirapine, and efavirenz) 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (used to treat hepatitis C) 
sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil (used by men to treat impotence (erectile dysfunction)) 
if you are taking an oral contraceptive ("the Pill") with REYATAZ to prevent pregnancy, be 
sure to take it exactly as instructed by your doctor and not miss any doses 
any medicines used to treat diseases related to the acid in the stomach (e.g., antacids to be taken 
1 hour before taking REYATAZ or 2 hours after taking REYATAZ, H2-blockers like 
famotidine and proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole) 
medicines to lower blood pressure, to slow heart rate, or to correct heart rhythm (amiodarone, 
diltiazem, systemic lidocaine, verapamil) 
atorvastatin, pravastatin, and fluvastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
salmeterol (used to treat asthma) 
cyclosporin, tacrolimus, and sirolimus (medicines to decrease the effects of body's immune 
system) 
certain antibiotics (rifabutin, clarithromycin) 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, and voriconazole (antifungals) 
apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel, prasugrel, and ticagrelor 
(used to reduce blood clots) 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and lamotrigine (antiepileptics) 
encorafenib, ivosidenib, and, irinotecan (used to treat cancer) 
elagolix (gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonists, used to treat severe pain from 
endometriosis) 
fostamatinib (used to treat chronic immune thrombocytopenia) 
sedative agents (e.g., midazolam administered by injection) 
buprenorphine (used to treat opioid addiction and pain) 
corticosteroids (all routes of administration; including dexamethasone). 
Some medicines may interact with ritonavir, a medicine that is taken with REYATAZ. It is important 
to tell your doctor if you are taking an inhaled or nasal (given in the nose) corticosteroid, including 
fluticasone or budesonide (given to treat allergic symptoms or asthma). 
REYATAZ with food and drink 
It is important that you take REYATAZ with food (a meal or a substantial snack) as this helps the 
body absorb the medicine. 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or think that you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Atazanavir, the active substance of REYATAZ, is excreted in human milk. Patients should not breast-
feed while taking REYATAZ. 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. 
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as 
soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel dizzy or lightheaded, do not drive or use machines and contact your doctor immediately. 
REYATAZ contains lactose. 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars (e.g., lactose), 
contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
3. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. This way, you can be sure your medicine is fully effective and you reduce the risk of the virus 
developing resistance to the treatment. 
The recommended adult dose of REYATAZ capsules is 300 mg once daily with 100 mg ritonavir 
once daily and with food, in combination with other anti-HIV medicines. Your doctor may adjust the 
dose of REYATAZ according to your anti-HIV therapy. 
For children (6 to less than 18 years of age), your child's doctor will decide the right dose based 
on your child's weight. The dose of REYATAZ capsules for children is calculated by body weight 
and is taken once daily with food and 100 mg ritonavir as shown below: 
Body Weight 
(kg) 
15 to less than 35 
at least 35 
REYATAZ Dose once daily 
(mg) 
200 
300 
Ritonavir Dose* once daily 
(mg) 
100 
100 
*Ritonavir capsules, tablets, or oral solution may be used. 
REYATAZ is also available as an oral powder for use in children at least 3 months old and weighing 
at least 5 kg. Switching to REYATAZ capsules from REYATAZ oral powder is encouraged as soon as 
patients are able to consistently swallow capsules. 
A change in dose may occur when switching between oral powder and capsules. Your doctor will 
decide the right dose based on your child’s weight. 
There are no dosing recommendations for REYATAZ in paediatric patients less than 3 months of age. 
Take REYATAZ capsules with food (a meal or a substantial snack). Swallow the capsules whole. 
Do not open the capsules. 
118 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you take more REYATAZ than you should 
Yellowing of the skin and/or eyes (jaundice) and irregular heart beat (QTc prolongation) may occur if 
you or your child take too much REYATAZ. 
If you accidentally take more REYATAZ capsules than your doctor recommended, contact your HIV 
doctor at once or contact the nearest hospital for advice. 
If you forget to take REYATAZ 
If you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as possible with food and then take your next 
scheduled dose at its regular time. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the missed dose. 
Wait and take the next dose at its regular time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking REYATAZ 
Do not stop taking REYATAZ before talking to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. When 
treating HIV infection, it is not always easy to identify what side effects are caused by REYATAZ, by 
the other medicines you are taking, or by the HIV infection itself. Tell your doctor if you notice 
anything unusual about your health. 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following serious side effects: 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin rash, itching that may occasionally be severe has been reported. The rash usually 
disappears within 2 weeks without any change to your REYATAZ treatment. Severe rash may 
be developed in association with other symptoms which could be serious. Stop taking 
REYATAZ and talk to your doctor immediately if you develop a severe rash or a rash with flu-
like illness symptoms, blisters, fever, mouth sores, muscle or joint pain, swelling in the face, 
inflammation of the eye which causes redness (conjunctivitis), painful, warm, or red lumps 
(nodules). 
Yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes caused by high levels of bilirubin in your 
blood has been commonly reported. This side effect is usually not dangerous in adults and 
infants older than 3 months of age; but it might be a symptom of a serious problem. If your skin 
or the white part of your eyes turns yellow, talk to your doctor immediately. 
Changes in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm change) may occasionally happen. Talk to 
your doctor immediately if you get dizzy, lightheaded or if you suddenly faint. These could be 
symptoms of a serious heart problem. 
Liver problems may uncommonly happen. Your doctor should do blood tests prior you start 
REYATAZ and during treatment. If you have liver problems, including hepatitis B or C 
infection, you may experience a worsening of your liver problems. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get dark (tea-colored) urine, itching, yellowing of your skin or the white part 
of your eyes, pain around the stomach, pale-colored stools, or nausea. 
Gallbladder problems uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Symptoms of 
gallbladder problems may include pain in the right or middle upper stomach area, nausea, 
vomiting, fever, or yellowing your skin or the white part of your eyes. 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get symptoms of kidney stones which may include, pain in your low back or 
low stomach area, blood in your urine, or pain when you urinate. 
Other side effects reported for patients treated with REYATAZ are the following: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
 
 
headache 
vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach pain of discomfort), nausea, dyspepsia 
(indigestion) 
fatigue (extreme tiredness) 
 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peripheral neuropathy (numbness, weakness, tingling or pain in the arms and legs) 
hypersensitivity (allergic reaction) 
asthenia (unusual tiredness or weakness) 
weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia (loss of appetite), appetite increased 
depression, anxiety, sleep disorder 
disorientation, amnesia (loss of memory), dizziness, somnolence (sleepiness), abnormal dream 
syncope (fainting), hypertension (high blood pressure) 
dyspnoea (shortness of breath) 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), stomatitis 
aphthous (mouth ulcers and cold sores), dysgeusia (impairment of the sense of taste), flatulence 
(wind), dry mouth, abdominal distension 
angioedema (severe swelling of the skin and other tissues most often the lips or the eyes) 
alopecia (unusual hair loss or thinning), pruritus (itching) 
muscle atrophy (muscle shrinkage), arthralgia (joint pain), myalgia (aching muscles) 
interstitial nephritis (kidney inflammation), haematuria (blood in the urine), proteinuria (excess 
protein in the urine), pollakiuria (increased frequency of urination) 
gynaecomastia (breast enlargement in men) 
chest pain, malaise (generally feeling unwell), fever 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
gait disturbance (abnormal manner of walking) 
oedema (swelling) 
hepatosplenomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen) 
myopathy (aching muscles, muscle tenderness of weakness, not caused by exercise) 
kidney pain 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store REYATAZ 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label, carton, or blister. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What REYATAZ contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is atazanavir. Each capsule contains 200 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
The other ingredients are crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, and magnesium stearate. The 
capsule shell and printing ink contain gelatin, shellac, ammonium hydroxide, simethicone, 
propylene glycol, indigocarmin (E132), and titanium dioxide (E171). 
What REYATAZ looks like and contents of the pack 
Each capsule of REYATAZ 200 mg contains 200 mg atazanavir. 
Opaque blue capsule printed with white ink, with "BMS 200 mg" on one half and with "3631" on the 
other half. 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules are supplied in bottles of 60 capsules. Either one or three bottles of 
60 hard capsules are provided in one carton. 
REYATAZ 200 mg hard capsules are also supplied in blister strips in packs of 60 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed in all countries. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
CATALENT ANAGNI S.R.L. 
Loc. Fontana del Ceraso snc 
Strada Provinciale 12 Casilina, 41 
03012 Anagni (FR) 
Italy 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Operations, 
External Manufacturing 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules 
atazanavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. 
It may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What REYATAZ is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Possible side effects 
How to store REYATAZ 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What REYATAZ is and What it is used for 
REYATAZ is an antiviral (or antiretroviral) medicine. It is one of a group called protease 
inhibitors. These medicines control Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection by stopping a 
protein that the HIV needs for its multiplication. They work by reducing the amount of HIV in your 
body and this in turn, strengthens your immune system. In this way REYATAZ reduces the risk of 
developing illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
REYATAZ capsules may be used by adults and children 6 years of age and older. Your doctor has 
prescribed REYATAZ for you because you are infected by the HIV that causes Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). It is normally used in combination with other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of these medicines with REYATAZ 
is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
Do not take REYATAZ 
 
 
 
if you are allergic to atazanavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you have moderate to severe liver problems. Your doctor will evaluate how severe your 
liver disease is before deciding whether you can take REYATAZ 
if you are taking any of these medicines: see also Other medicines and REYATAZ 
 
 
rifampicin (an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis) 
astemizole or terfenadine (commonly used to treat allergy symptoms, these medicines 
may be available without prescription); cisapride (used to treat gastric reflux, sometimes 
called heartburn); pimozide (used to treat schizophrenia); quinidine or bepridil (used to 
correct heart rhythm); ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine 
(used to treat headaches); and alfuzosin (used to treat enlarged prostatic gland) 
quetiapine (used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder); 
lurasidone (used to treat schizophrenia) 
medicines containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum, a herbal preparation) 
 
 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam (used to help you sleep and/or to relieve 
anxiety) 
lomitapide, simvastatin, and lovastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose combination, 
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (used to treat chronic hepatitis C 
infection) 
apalutamide (used to treat prostate cancer) 
Do not take sildenafil with REYATAZ when sildenafil is used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil is also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Tell your doctor if you 
are using sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
Tell your doctor at once if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
REYATAZ is not a cure for HIV infection. You may continue to develop infections or other 
illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
Some people will need special care before or while taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking REYATAZ and make sure your doctor knows: 
 
 
 
 
if you have hepatitis B or C 
if you develop signs or symptoms of gall stones (pain at the right side of your stomach) 
if you have type A or B haemophilia 
if you require haemodialysis 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones have been reported in patients taking REYATAZ. If you develop signs or symptoms of 
kidney stones (pain in your side, blood in your urine, pain when you urinate), please inform your 
doctor immediately. 
In some patients with advanced HIV infection (AIDS) and a history of opportunistic infection, signs 
and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is 
started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an improvement in the body’s immune response, 
enabling the body to fight infections that may have been present with no obvious symptoms. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection, please inform your doctor immediately. In addition to the 
opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when the immune system 
attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines for the treatment of your 
HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after the start of treatment. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as muscle weakness, weakness beginning in 
hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body, palpitations, tremor, or hyperactivity, 
please inform your doctor immediately to seek necessary treatment. 
Some patients taking combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called 
osteonecrosis (death of bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of 
combination antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe 
immunosuppression, higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for 
developing this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the 
hip, knee and shoulder), and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor. 
Hyperbilirubinaemia (an increase in the level of bilirubin in the blood) has occurred in patients 
receiving REYATAZ. The signs may be a mild yellowing of the skin or eyes. If you notice any of 
these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious skin rash, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, has been reported in patients taking 
REYATAZ. If you develop a rash inform your doctor immediately. 
If you notice a change in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm changes), please inform your doctor. 
Children receiving REYATAZ may require their heart to be monitored. Your child's doctor will decide 
this. 
Children 
Do not give this medicine to children younger than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg. The 
use of REYATAZ in children less than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg has not been 
studied due to the risk of serious complications. 
Other medicines and REYATAZ 
You must not take REYATAZ with certain medicines. These are listed under Do not take 
REYATAZ, at the start of Section 2. 
There are other medicines that may not mix with REYATAZ. Tell your doctor if you are taking, have 
recently taken, or might take any other medicines. It is especially important to mention these: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other medicines to treat HIV infection (e.g., indinavir, nevirapine, and efavirenz) 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (used to treat hepatitis C) 
sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil (used by men to treat impotence (erectile dysfunction)) 
if you are taking an oral contraceptive ("the Pill") with REYATAZ to prevent pregnancy, be 
sure to take it exactly as instructed by your doctor and not miss any doses 
any medicines used to treat diseases related to the acid in the stomach (e.g., antacids to be taken 
1 hour before taking REYATAZ or 2 hours after taking REYATAZ, H2-blockers like 
famotidine and proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole) 
medicines to lower blood pressure, to slow heart rate, or to correct heart rhythm (amiodarone, 
diltiazem, systemic lidocaine, verapamil) 
atorvastatin, pravastatin, and fluvastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
salmeterol (used to treat asthma) 
cyclosporin, tacrolimus, and sirolimus (medicines to decrease the effects of body's immune 
system) 
certain antibiotics (rifabutin, clarithromycin) 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, and voriconazole (antifungals) 
apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel, prasugrel, and ticagrelor 
(used to reduce blood clots) 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and lamotrigine (antiepileptics) 
encorafenib, ivosidenib, and, irinotecan (used to treat cancer) 
elagolix (gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonists, used to treat severe pain from 
endometriosis) 
fostamatinib (used to treat chronic immune thrombocytopenia) 
sedative agents (e.g. midazolam administered by injection) 
buprenorphine (used to treat opioid addiction and pain) 
corticosteroids (all routes of administration; including dexamethasone). 
Some medicines may interact with ritonavir, a medicine that is taken with REYATAZ. It is important 
to tell your doctor if you are taking an inhaled or nasal (given in the nose) corticosteroid, including 
fluticasone or budesonide (given to treat allergic symptoms or asthma). 
REYATAZ with food and drink 
It is important that you take REYATAZ with food (a meal or a substantial snack) as this helps the 
body absorb the medicine. 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or think that you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Atazanavir, the active substance of REYATAZ, is excreted in human milk. Patients should not breast-
feed while taking REYATAZ. 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. 
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as 
soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel dizzy or lightheaded, do not drive or use machines and contact your doctor immediately. 
REYATAZ contains lactose. 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars (e.g., lactose), 
contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
3. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. This way, you can be sure your medicine is fully effective and you reduce the risk of the virus 
developing resistance to the treatment. 
The recommended adult dose of REYATAZ capsules is 300 mg once daily with 100 mg ritonavir 
once daily and with food, in combination with other anti-HIV medicines. Your doctor may adjust the 
dose of REYATAZ according to your anti-HIV therapy. 
For children (6 to less than 18 years of age), your child's doctor will decide the right dose based 
on your child's weight. The dose of REYATAZ capsules for children is calculated by body weight 
and is taken once daily with food and 100 mg ritonavir as shown below: 
Body Weight 
(kg) 
15 to less than 35 
at least 35 
REYATAZ Dose once daily 
(mg) 
200 
300 
Ritonavir Dose* once daily 
(mg) 
100 
100 
*Ritonavir capsules, tablets, or oral solution may be used. 
REYATAZ is also available as an oral powder for use in children at least 3 months old and weighing 
at least 5 kg. Switching to REYATAZ capsules from REYATAZ oral powder is encouraged as soon as 
patients are able to consistently swallow capsules. 
A change in dose may occur when switching between oral powder and capsules. Your doctor will 
decide the right dose based on your child’s weight. 
There are no dosing recommendations for REYATAZ in paediatric patients less than 3 months of age. 
Take REYATAZ capsules with food (a meal or a substantial snack). Swallow the capsules whole. 
Do not open the capsules. 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you take more REYATAZ than you should 
Yellowing of the skin and/or eyes (jaundice) and irregular heart beat (QTc prolongation) may occur if 
you or your child take too much REYATAZ. 
If you accidentally take more REYATAZ capsules than your doctor recommended, contact your HIV 
doctor at once or contact the nearest hospital for advice. 
If you forget to take REYATAZ 
If you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as possible with food and then take your next 
scheduled dose at its regular time. If it is almost time for your next dose, do not take the missed dose. 
Wait and take the next dose at its regular time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking REYATAZ 
Do not stop taking REYATAZ before talking to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. When 
treating HIV infection, it is not always easy to identify what side effects are caused by REYATAZ, by 
the other medicines you are taking, or by the HIV infection itself. Tell your doctor if you notice 
anything unusual about your health. 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following serious side effects: 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin rash, itching that may occasionally be severe has been reported. The rash usually 
disappears within 2 weeks without any change to your REYATAZ treatment. Severe rash may 
be developed in association with other symptoms which could be serious. Stop taking 
REYATAZ and talk to your doctor immediately if you develop a severe rash or a rash with flu-
like illness symptoms, blisters, fever, mouth sores, muscle or joint pain, swelling in the face, 
inflammation of the eye which causes redness (conjunctivitis), painful, warm, or red lumps 
(nodules). 
Yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes caused by high levels of bilirubin in your 
blood has been commonly reported. This side effect is usually not dangerous in adults and 
infants older than 3 months of age; but it might be a symptom of a serious problem. If your skin 
or the white part of your eyes turns yellow, talk to your doctor immediately. 
Changes in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm change) may occasionally happen. Talk to 
your doctor immediately if you get dizzy, lightheaded or if you suddenly faint. These could be 
symptoms of a serious heart problem. 
Liver problems may uncommonly happen. Your doctor should do blood tests prior you start 
REYATAZ and during treatment. If you have liver problems, including hepatitis B or C 
infection, you may experience a worsening of your liver problems. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get dark (tea-colored) urine, itching, yellowing of your skin or the white part 
of your eyes, pain around the stomach, pale-colored stools, or nausea. 
Gallbladder problems uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Symptoms of 
gallbladder problems may include pain in the right or middle upper stomach area, nausea, 
vomiting, fever, or yellowing your skin or the white part of your eyes. 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get symptoms of kidney stones which may include, pain in your low back or 
low stomach area, blood in your urine, or pain when you urinate. 
Other side effects reported for patients treated with REYATAZ are the following: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
 
 
headache 
vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach pain of discomfort), nausea, dyspepsia 
(indigestion) 
fatigue (extreme tiredness) 
 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peripheral neuropathy (numbness, weakness, tingling or pain in the arms and legs) 
hypersensitivity (allergic reaction) 
asthenia (unusual tiredness or weakness) 
weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia (loss of appetite), appetite increased 
depression, anxiety, sleep disorder 
disorientation, amnesia (loss of memory), dizziness, somnolence (sleepiness), abnormal dream 
syncope (fainting), hypertension (high blood pressure) 
dyspnoea (shortness of breath) 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), stomatitis 
aphthous (mouth ulcers and cold sores), dysgeusia (impairment of the sense of taste), flatulence 
(wind), dry mouth, abdominal distension 
angioedema (severe swelling of the skin and other tissues most often the lips or the eyes) 
alopecia (unusual hair loss or thinning), pruritus (itching) 
muscle atrophy (muscle shrinkage), arthralgia (joint pain), myalgia (aching muscles) 
interstitial nephritis (kidney inflammation), haematuria (blood in the urine), proteinuria (excess 
protein in the urine), pollakiuria (increased frequency of urination) 
gynaecomastia (breast enlargement in men) 
chest pain, malaise (generally feeling unwell), fever 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
gait disturbance (abnormal manner of walking) 
oedema (swelling) 
hepatosplenomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen) 
myopathy (aching muscles, muscle tenderness of weakness, not caused by exercise) 
kidney pain 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store REYATAZ 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label, carton, or blister. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What REYATAZ contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is atazanavir. Each capsule contains 300 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
The other ingredients are crospovidone, lactose monohydrate, and magnesium stearate. The 
capsule shell and printing ink contain gelatin, shellac, ammonium hydroxide, simethicone, red 
iron oxide, black iron oxide, yellow iron oxide, propylene glycol, indigocarmin (E132), and 
titanium dioxide (E171). 
What REYATAZ looks like and contents of the pack 
Each capsule of REYATAZ 300 mg contains 300 mg atazanavir. 
Opaque red and blue capsule printed with white ink, with "BMS 300 mg" on one half and with "3622" 
on the other half. 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules are supplied in bottles of 30 capsules. Either one or three bottles of 
30 hard capsules are provided in one carton. 
REYATAZ 300 mg hard capsules are also supplied in blister strips in packs of 30 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed in all countries. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
CATALENT ANAGNI S.R.L. 
Loc. Fontana del Ceraso snc 
Strada Provinciale 12 Casilina, 41 
03012 Anagni (FR) 
Italy 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Operations, 
External Manufacturing 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
REYATAZ 50 mg oral powder 
atazanavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. 
It may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What REYATAZ is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Possible side effects 
How to store REYATAZ 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What REYATAZ is and What it is used for 
REYATAZ is an antiviral (or antiretroviral) medicine. It is one of a group called protease 
inhibitors. These medicines control Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection by stopping a 
protein that the HIV needs for its multiplication. They work by reducing the amount of HIV in your 
body and this in turn, strengthens your immune system. In this way REYATAZ reduces the risk of 
developing illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
REYATAZ oral powder may be used by children at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg 
(see section 3 How to take REYATAZ). Your doctor has prescribed REYATAZ for you because you 
are infected by the HIV that causes Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). It should always 
be used with a low dose of ritonavir and in combination with other anti-HIV medicines. Your doctor 
will discuss with you which combination of these medicines with REYATAZ is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take REYATAZ 
Do not take REYATAZ 
 
 
 
if you are allergic to atazanavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you have moderate to severe liver problems. Your doctor will evaluate how severe your 
liver disease is before deciding whether you can take REYATAZ 
if you are taking any of these medicines: see also Other medicines and REYATAZ 
 
 
rifampicin (an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis) 
astemizole or terfenadine (commonly used to treat allergy symptoms, these medicines 
may be available without prescription); cisapride (used to treat gastric reflux, sometimes 
called heartburn); pimozide (used to treat schizophrenia); quinidine or bepridil (used to 
correct heart rhythm); ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine 
(used to treat headaches); and alfuzosin (used to treat enlarged prostatic gland) 
quetiapine (used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder); 
lurasidone (used to treat schizophrenia) 
medicines containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum, a herbal preparation) 
 
 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam (used to help you sleep and/or to relieve 
anxiety) 
lomitapide, simvastatin, and lovastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol). 
grazoprevir-containing products, including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed-dose combination, 
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed-dose combination (used to treat chronic hepatitis C 
infection) 
apalutamide (used to treat prostate cancer) 
Do not take sildenafil with REYATAZ when sildenafil is used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. Sildenafil is also used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Tell your doctor if you 
are using sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
Tell your doctor at once if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
REYATAZ is not a cure for HIV infection. You may continue to develop infections or other 
illnesses linked to HIV infection. 
Some people will need special care before or while taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking REYATAZ and make sure your doctor knows: 
 
 
 
 
if you have hepatitis B or C 
if you develop signs or symptoms of gall stones (pain at the right side of your stomach) 
if you have type A or B haemophilia 
if you require haemodialysis 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones have been reported in patients taking REYATAZ. If you develop signs or symptoms of 
kidney stones (pain in your side, blood in your urine, pain when you urinate), please inform your 
doctor immediately. 
In some patients with advanced HIV infection (AIDS) and a history of opportunistic infection, signs 
and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is 
started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an improvement in the body’s immune response, 
enabling the body to fight infections that may have been present with no obvious symptoms. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection, please inform your doctor immediately. In addition to the 
opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when the immune system 
attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines for the treatment of your 
HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after the start of treatment. If you 
notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as muscle weakness, weakness beginning in 
hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of the body, palpitations, tremor, or hyperactivity, 
please inform your doctor immediately to seek necessary treatment. 
Some patients taking combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called 
osteonecrosis (death of bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of 
combination antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe 
immunosuppression, higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for 
developing this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the 
hip, knee and shoulder), and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor. 
Hyperbilirubinaemia (an increase in the level of bilirubin in the blood) has occurred in patients 
receiving REYATAZ. The signs may be a mild yellowing of the skin or eyes. If you notice any of 
these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious skin rash, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, has been reported in patients taking 
REYATAZ. If you develop a rash inform your doctor immediately. 
If you notice a change in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm changes), please inform your doctor. 
Children receiving REYATAZ may require their heart to be monitored. Your child's doctor will decide 
this. 
Children 
Do not give this medicine to children younger than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg. The 
use of REYATAZ in children less than 3 months of age and weighing less than 5 kg has not been 
studied due to the risk of serious complications. 
Other medicines and REYATAZ 
You must not take REYATAZ with certain medicines. These are listed under Do not take 
REYATAZ, at the start of Section 2. 
There are other medicines that may not mix with REYATAZ. Tell your doctor if you are taking, have 
recently taken, or might take any other medicines. It is especially important to mention these: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other medicines to treat HIV infection (e.g., indinavir, nevirapine, and efavirenz) 
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (used to treat hepatitis C) 
sildenafil, vardenafil, or tadalafil (used by men to treat impotence (erectile dysfunction)) 
if you are taking an oral contraceptive ("the Pill") with REYATAZ to prevent pregnancy, be 
sure to take it exactly as instructed by your doctor and not miss any doses 
any medicines used to treat diseases related to the acid in the stomach (e.g., antacids to be taken 
1 hour before taking REYATAZ or 2 hours after taking REYATAZ, H2-blockers like 
famotidine and proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole) 
medicines to lower blood pressure, to slow heart rate, or to correct heart rhythm (amiodarone, 
diltiazem, systemic lidocaine, verapamil) 
atorvastatin, pravastatin, and fluvastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
salmeterol (used to treat asthma) 
cyclosporin, tacrolimus, and sirolimus (medicines to decrease the effects of body's immune 
system) 
certain antibiotics (rifabutin, clarithromycin) 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, and voriconazole (antifungals) 
apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel, prasugrel, and ticagrelor 
(used to reduce blood clots) 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and lamotrigine (antiepileptics) 
encorafenib, ivosidenib, and irinotecan (used to treat cancer) 
elagolix (gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonists, used to treat severe pain from 
endometriosis) 
fostamatinib (used to treat chronic immune thrombocytopenia) 
sedative agents (e.g., midazolam administered by injection) 
buprenorphine (used to treat opioid addiction and pain) 
corticosteroids (all routes of administration; including dexamethasone). 
Some medicines may interact with ritonavir, a medicine that is taken with REYATAZ. It is important 
to tell your doctor if you are taking an inhaled or nasal (given in the nose) corticosteroid, including 
fluticasone or budesonide (given to treat allergic symptoms or asthma). 
REYATAZ with food and drink 
See section 3 How to take REYATAZ. 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for 
advice before taking this medicine. 
Atazanavir, the active substance of REYATAZ, is excreted in human milk. Patients should not breast-
feed while taking REYATAZ. 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women who living with HIV because HIV infection can be 
passed on to the baby in breast milk. 
If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss it with your doctor as 
soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel dizzy or lightheaded, do not drive or use machines, and contact your doctor immediately. 
REYATAZ oral powder contains: 
 
 
63 mg of aspartame per sachet. Aspartame is a source of phenylalanine. It may be harmful if 
you have phenylketonuria (PKU), a rare genetic disorder in which phenylalanine builds up 
because the body cannot remove it properly. 
1.3 g of sucrose per sachet. This should be taken into account in patients with diabetes mellitus. 
May be harmful to the teeth. If you have been told by your doctor that your child has an 
intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before giving this medicinal product to your 
child. 
3. 
How to take REYATAZ 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. This way, you can be sure your medicine is fully effective and you reduce the risk of the virus 
developing resistance to the treatment. 
For children (at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg), your child's doctor will decide 
the right dose based on your child's weight. The dose of REYATAZ oral powder for children is 
calculated by body weight and is taken once daily with food and ritonavir as shown below: 
Body Weight 
(kg) 
At least 5 to less than 15 
At least 15 to less than 35 
at least 35 
REYATAZ Dose once daily 
(mg) 
200 mg (4 sachetsa) 
250 mg (5 sachetsa) 
300 mg (6 sachetsa) 
Ritonavir Dose once daily 
(mg) 
80 mgb 
80 mgb 
100 mgc 
a Each sachet contains 50 mg of REYATAZ 
b Ritonavir oral solution 
c Ritonavir oral solution or capsule/tablet 
REYATAZ is also available in capsules for use in adults and children at least 6 years of age who 
weigh at least 15 kg and who are able to swallow the capsules. Switching from REYATAZ oral 
powder to REYATAZ capsules is encouraged as soon as patients are able to consistently swallow 
capsules. 
A change in dose may occur when switching between oral powder and capsules. Your doctor will 
decide the right dose based on your child’s weight. 
There are no dosing recommendations for REYATAZ in paediatric patients less than 3 months of age. 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for REYATAZ oral powder: 
 
 
 
 
For children who are able to drink from a cup, REYATAZ oral powder must be taken with food 
or drinks. If REYATAZ oral powder is mixed with water, food should also be taken at the same 
time. 
For children who cannot eat solid food or drink from a cup, REYATAZ oral powder must be 
mixed with infant formula and should be given using an oral syringe. Ask your pharmacist for 
an oral syringe. Do not use an infant bottle to give REYATAZ mixed with infant formula. 
See the "Instructions for use" at the end of the package leaflet for how to prepare and give a 
dose of REYATAZ oral powder. 
REYATAZ oral powder should be given within 60 minutes of mixing. 
If you take more REYATAZ than you should 
Yellowing of the skin and/or eyes (jaundice) and irregular heart beat (QTc prolongation) may occur if 
you or your child take too much REYATAZ. 
If you accidentally take or give more REYATAZ oral powder than your doctor recommended, contact 
your HIV doctor at once or contact the nearest hospital for advice. 
If you forget to take REYATAZ 
If you miss a dose or if you forget to give your child a dose, take or give the missed dose as soon as 
possible with food and then take or give the next scheduled dose at its regular time. If it is almost time 
for your or your child's next dose, do not take or give the missed dose. Wait and take or give the next 
dose at its regular time. Do not take or give a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking REYATAZ 
Do not stop taking REYATAZ before talking to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. When 
treating HIV infection, it is not always easy to identify what side effects are caused by REYATAZ, by 
the other medicines you are taking, or by the HIV infection itself. Tell your doctor if you notice 
anything unusual about your health. 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following serious side effects: 
 
 
Skin rash, itching that may occasionally be severe has been reported. The rash usually 
disappears within 2 weeks without any change to your REYATAZ treatment. Severe rash may 
be developed in association with other symptoms which could be serious. Stop taking 
REYATAZ and talk to your doctor immediately if you develop a severe rash or a rash with flu-
like illness symptoms, blisters, fever, mouth sores, muscle or joint pain, swelling in the face, 
inflammation of the eye which causes redness (conjunctivitis), painful, warm, or red lumps 
(nodules). 
Yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eyes caused by high levels of bilirubin in your 
blood has been commonly reported. This side effect is usually not dangerous in adults and 
infants older than 3 months of age; but it might be a symptom of a serious problem. If your skin 
or the white part of your eyes turns yellow, talk to your doctor immediately. 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in the way your heart beats (heart rhythm change) may occasionally happen. Talk to 
your doctor immediately if you get dizzy, lightheaded or if you suddenly faint. These could be 
symptoms of a serious heart problem. 
Liver problems may uncommonly happen. Your doctor should do blood tests prior you start 
REYATAZ and during treatment. If you have liver problems, including hepatitis B or C 
infection, you may experience a worsening of your liver problems. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get dark (tea-colored) urine, itching, yellowing of your skin or the white part 
of your eyes, pain around the stomach, pale-colored stools, or nausea. 
Gallbladder problems uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Symptoms of 
gallbladder problems may include pain in the right or middle upper stomach area, nausea, 
vomiting, fever, or yellowing your skin or the white part of your eyes. 
REYATAZ may affect how well your kidneys work. 
Kidney stones uncommonly happen in people taking REYATAZ. Talk to your doctor 
immediately if you get symptoms of kidney stones which may include, pain in your low back or 
low stomach area, blood in your urine, or pain when you urinate. 
Other side effects reported for patients treated with REYATAZ are the following: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
 
 
headache 
vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach pain of discomfort), nausea, dyspepsia 
(indigestion) 
fatigue (extreme tiredness) 
 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peripheral neuropathy (numbness, weakness, tingling or pain in the arms and legs) 
hypersensitivity (allergic reaction) 
asthenia (unusual tiredness or weakness) 
weight decreased, weight gain, anorexia (loss of appetite), appetite increased 
depression, anxiety, sleep disorder 
disorientation, amnesia (loss of memory), dizziness, somnolence (sleepiness), abnormal dream 
syncope (fainting), hypertension (high blood pressure) 
dyspnoea (shortness of breath) 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), stomatitis 
aphthous (mouth ulcers and cold sores), dysgeusia (impairment of the sense of taste), flatulence 
(wind), dry mouth, abdominal distension 
angioedema (severe swelling of the skin and other tissues most often the lips or the eyes) 
alopecia (unusual hair loss or thinning), pruritus (itching) 
muscle atrophy (muscle shrinkage), arthralgia (joint pain), myalgia (aching muscles) 
interstitial nephritis (kidney inflammation), haematuria (blood in the urine), proteinuria (excess 
protein in the urine), pollakiuria (increased frequency of urination) 
gynaecomastia (breast enlargement in men) 
chest pain, malaise (generally feeling unwell), fever 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
 
 
 
 
 
gait disturbance (abnormal manner of walking) 
oedema (swelling) 
hepatosplenomegaly (enlargement of the liver and spleen) 
myopathy (aching muscles, muscle tenderness of weakness, not caused by exercise) 
kidney pain 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store REYATAZ 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton or sachet. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. Do not open the sachet until 
ready to use. 
After mixing the oral powder with food or drinks, it may be stored at room temperature (not above 
30oC) for up to 1 hour. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What REYATAZ contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is atazanavir. Each sachet contains 50 mg of atazanavir (as sulphate). 
The other ingredients are aspartame (E951), sucrose, and orange vanilla flavour. 
What REYATAZ looks like and contents of the pack 
Each sachet of REYATAZ 50 mg oral powder contains 50 mg atazanavir. 
One pack size is available: 1 carton with 30 sachets. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Lawrence Laboratories 
Unit 12 & 15, Distribution Centre 
Shannon Industrial Estate 
Shannon, Co. Clare, V14 DD39 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use 
These instructions show you how to prepare and give a dose of REYATAZ oral powder. Make sure 
that you read and understand these instructions before giving this medicine to your child. 
Your child's doctor will decide the right dose based on your child's age and weight. 
Always give your child the medicine within 60 minutes of mixing. 
Before giving the medicine 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Determine the dose and the number of REYATAZ oral powder sachets needed (see section 3 
How to take REYATAZ). 
Before use, tap the sachet. Cut each sachet along the dotted line. 
Choose the appropriate option listed below for giving REYATAZ oral powder to your child. 
Larger volumes or quantities of liquid infant formula, beverage or food may be used. Ensure 
that all the infant formula, beverage or food that contains the medicine is taken. 
Preparing and giving the medicine with liquid infant formula using a medicine cup or small 
container and oral syringe (ask your pharmacist for an oral syringe): 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Take a medicine cup or small container and put the sachets’ content in the cup or small 
container. 
Add 10 mL of prepared liquid infant formula and mix using a spoon. 
Put the oral syringe tip into the mixture and pull back the plunger until the full amount of infant 
formula is taken up. 
Place the syringe in your child's mouth towards the cheek and push the plunger down to release 
the medicine. 
Put another 10 mL of prepared infant formula in the cup or container and rinse the remaining 
oral powder from the cup or container. 
Put the syringe tip into the mixture and pull back the plunger until the full amount of infant 
formula is taken up. 
Place the syringe in your child's mouth towards the cheek and push the plunger down to release 
the medicine. 
Give to your child the recommended dose of ritonavir immediately after giving REYATAZ oral 
powder. 
Preparing and giving the medicine with drinks 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Put the sachets’ content in a small drinking cup. 
Add 30 mL of the drink and mix with a spoon. 
Have the child drink the mixture. 
Add another 15 mL of the drink, mix, and have the child drink the mixture. 
If water is used, food should also be taken at the same time. 
Preparing and giving the medicine with food 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Fill a small container with the sachets' content. 
Add a minimum of one tablespoon of food and mix. 
Feed your child with the mixture. 
Add an additional tablespoon in the container, mix and feed to your child again. 
If you have any questions on how to prepare or give a dose of REYATAZ oral powder, talk to your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
