SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Reyataz.  This  scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  August  2004.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date  please 
refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
REYATAZ  is  available  in  two  pharmaceutical  forms  (hard  capsule  and  powder  for  oral  use) 
containing as active substance atazanavir in the form of the sulphate salt. 
Hard capsule 
REYATAZ  is  presented  as  hard  capsules,  containing  100  mg,  150  mg  and  200  mg  of  atazanavir 
expressed as free base. The different strengths can be distinguished by the size, colour and imprinting 
of the capsules. 
The other ingredients include lactose monohydrate, crospovidone, magnesium stearate, imprinting ink 
and hard gelatine capsule shell. 
The  capsules  are  packed  in  HPDE  bottle  with  child  resistant  polypropylene  closures  or  in 
aluminium/aluminium blister.  
Powder for oral use 
REYATAZ is also formulated as an oral powder containing 1.5 g of powder per levelled measuring 
spoon, equivalent to 50 mg of atazanavir expressed as free base. 
The other ingredients include aspartame, sucrose and orange vanilla flavour. 
The oral powder is presented in a multidose HPDE bottle with child resistant polypropylene closures. 
A  polypropylene  measuring  spoon  is  supplied.  The  oral  powder  is  intended  to  be  dispersed  in  an 
appropriate vehicle such as water, milk, and applesauce or yoghurt immediately prior administration to 
patients. 
Active substance 
Atazanavir sulphate is an azapeptide HIV-1 protease inhibitor. Information on its synthesis and control 
has been provided by the way of an active substance master file (“EDMF”).  
The active substance is a white to pale yellow powder, freely soluble in organic solvents and slightly 
soluble in water (4-5 mg/ml). The solubility of the substance is pH dependant (maximum solubility at 
pH  1.9).    The  substance  contains  four  chiral  centres  however  the  manufacturing  process  leads,  in  a 
consistent way, to the single enantiomer S, S, S, S. The absolute configuration has been confirmed by 
single X-ray analysis on a triethanol solvate crystal. 
Atazanavir sulphate shows also the phenomenon of polymorphism. It has been demonstrated that the 
commercial process produces exclusively a non-solvated, highly crystalline form designed as form A. 
The  substance  is  not  hygroscopic  up  to  75%  relative  humidity  (RH),  but  undergoes  solid-state 
modifications to a predominantly amorphous form in aqueous suspension and when exposed to 95% 
RH.  
A number of synthetic processes (A, C, D and E) have been developed and used to produce batches 
used in non-clinical/clinical studies. However, for future commercialisation atazanavir sulphate will be 
manufactured through process F at two different manufacturing sites. 
1/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Satisfactory specifications and associated methods have been provided for the starting materials, key 
intermediate, reagents and solvents in the ASM Restricted part of the “EDMF”. 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identity  (IR  and  HPLC),  assay 
(HPLC),  impurity  content  (HPLC),  sulphuric  acid,  sulphated  ash  (Ph  Eur),  water  content  (KF), 
residual solvents (GC), heavy metals and particle size.  
The  formation of the desired enantiomer of  atazanavir is ensured  through the route of synthesis and 
adequate  controls  performed  on  the  starting  materials  and  the  intermediate  of  appropriate  isomeric 
purity.  Therefore,  the  omission  of  a  chiral  assay  in  the  specifications  has  been  supported  in  this 
particular case. 
Potential  impurities  have  been  well  discussed.  The  suitability  of  the  HPLC  method  for  control  of 
impurities including 4 significant stereoisomers has been demonstrated. The substance manufactured 
from the processes E and F is obtained in a high degree of purity. 
Considering  the  consistency  of  results  obtained  by  X-ray  diffraction  for  a  great  number  of  batches, 
control of polymorphism is not part of the specification of the active substance.  
Specifications of the  active substance are in adequacy with the route  of synthesis  and  considered as 
appropriate for the declared source of active substance in the dossier. The analytical methods used are 
well validated and suitable for their intended use.  
Batch analysis data  provided for  79 lots  produced  according to processes A,  C, D, E  and  F confirm 
satisfactory  compliance  and  uniformity  with  the  proposed  specifications.  No  significant  differences 
between lots obtained by processes have been noted, especially in term of impurity profile.  
Stability 
Stability data have been obtained for 9 batches synthesised at the intended sites using either process E 
or  F  and  stored  under  long  term  and  accelerated  ICH  conditions.  A  photostability  study  has  been 
performed and indicates that the active substance is not light sensitive. A retest period of 12 months 
with precaution storage of “Do not store above 30°C” and “protect from moisture” is supported by the 
presented  data  when  the  substance  is  stored  in  double  polyethylene  anti-static  bags  placed  in  fibre 
drums with secure fitting lids.  
Other ingredients 
Hard capsule  
The  excipients  are  of  Ph  Eur  quality.  Regarding  the  TSE  risk,  satisfactory  certificates  of  suitability 
have been provided for the gelatine capsule  shells. The lactose from  milk  of bovine origin has  been 
considered in compliance with the current TSE requirements. The magnesium stearate is derived from 
vegetable fatty acids. 
The HPDE bottle and cap meet the Ph Eur requirements for plastic primary packaging material and are 
in compliance with European regulation on foodstuffs.  
Powder for oral use 
All  the  excipients  comply  with  the  Ph  Eur  requirements  except  the  orange  vanilla  flavour,  which  is 
adequately controlled according to an in-house standard.  
The  HPDE  bottle  and  polypropylene  closures  meet  the  Ph  Eur  requirements  for  plastic  primary 
packaging  material  and  are  in  compliance  with  European  regulation  on  foodstuffs.  The  measuring 
2/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
spoon is CE marked and has been approved for its intended use. The accuracy and reproducibility of 
the dose delivered by this medical device has been satisfactorily demonstrated. 
Product development and finished product 
Hard capsule 
This  oral  dosage  form  is  of  standard  formulation  and  has  been  developed  to  release  the  active 
substance rapidly prior to absorption.  
All  the  excipients  selected  are  commonly  used  for  this  type  of  dosage  form.  A  wet  granulation 
formulation  has  been  chosen  based  on  rapid  and  complete  in-vitro  dissolution  profiles  obtained. 
During granulation, the dissolution rate of the finished product is further improved by transformation 
of atazanavir sulphate crystalline form A into a predominantly amorphous form (see active substance). 
The  amount  of  water  for  granulation  being  a  critical  parameter  for  complete  conversion  of  the 
crystalline  form,  a  suitable  range  of  water  has  been  selected  based  on  X-ray  diffraction  pattern  of 
development batches. Studies have confirmed that this transition occurs in a reproducible way and is 
under control. In any case, in vivo studies have shown that the bioavailability of the amorphous form 
and of the crystalline form is not significantly different. As the qualitative composition of the capsules 
remained  similar  after  phase  I  studies,  no  bioequivalence  study  has  been  performed  to  compare 
clinical formulations and the commercial formulation.  
The  method  of  manufacture  involves  the  following  operations:  mixing  of  the  active  substance  with 
lactose  monohydrate  and  crospovidone,  low  shear  wet  granulation,  drying,  milling,  addition  of  the 
remaining crospovidone/magnesium stearate final mixing and encapsulation. 
The four strengths of capsules are manufactured from common stock granulation sublots (55.5% w/w 
drug  substance  as  free  base),  which  are  assembled  during  the  final  mixing  steps.  In  order  to  permit 
appropriate  adjustment  of  the  capsule  fill  weight,  atazanavir  sulphate  assay  on  the  stock  granulation 
prior to encapsulation is part of the IPCs. Validation data have been provided for five pilot-scale stock 
granulation batches (3 using process E drug substance and 2 using process F drug substance) and for 3 
full-scale  stock  granulation  batches,  as  well  as  for  the  corresponding  capsule  batches.  Blend 
uniformity for the different batch sizes has been satisfactorily demonstrated. 
These validation data together with the results obtained during process and formulation optimisation 
studies  show  the  robustness  of  the  formulation  and  that  the  identified  critical  parameters  are  under 
control.  No  differences  are  evident  between  batches  manufactured  with  process  E/process  F  active 
substance. 
Specification 
The  product  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identity 
(HPLC,  IR),  assay  (HPLC),  impurity  content  (HPLC),  dissolution,  uniformity  of  mass  (Ph  Eur)  and 
microbial limit (Ph Eur).  
The  conditions  of  the  dissolution  test  selected  are  discriminatory,  and  can  detect  undergranulated 
(incomplete conversion of form A to amorphous) finished product batches. 
Batch analysis data have been provided for 33 batches manufactured at various facilities from pilot to 
commercial scale. Results from product of each strength manufactured at the commercial facility are 
included.  All  data  comply  with  the  specifications  and  indicate  consistent  and  reproducible 
manufacture. 
3/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Powder for oral use 
This pharmaceutical form was primarily developed for children and adults, who encounter difficulty in 
swallowing capsules. It is intended to be dispersed in an appropriate vehicle such as water, milk, apple 
sauce or yoghurt immediately prior administration to patients. 
Originally, the development of an oral liquid suspension was discontinued due to the conversion of the 
sulphate salt to the free base (pH around 3). A powder for oral use containing polysorbate 80 was also 
discontinued because of its poor bioavailability compared to the capsules. This was due to polysorbate 
80  enhancing  conversion  of  the  soluble  salt  form  to  the  insoluble  free  base  in  aqueous  environment 
with pH>2. The formulation without polysorbate 80 was shown to have similar bioavailability to the 
capsules and was consequently selected as final formulation. 
Based on satisfactory development studies, suitable mixing equipment and processing conditions have 
been  selected  to  manufacture  a  powder  with  satisfactory  blend  uniformity  and  resistance  to 
segregation.  The  fine  powder  blend  obtained  tends  to  be  cohesive  and  poorly  flowable,  thus 
decreasing possibility of de-mixing and segregation during processing and shipping. In order to ensure 
control  of  the  finished  product  performance,  particle  size  is  part  the  specification  of  atazanavir 
sulphate (see active substance). 
A bulk powder blend containing 3.33% of atazanavir sulphate expressed as free base is prepared by a 
standard direct milling/mixing process and subsequently filled into HPDE bottles. At the beginning of 
the  manufacturing  process,  the  active  substance  is  screened  as  it  may  contain  agglomerates  and  the 
excipients are milled in order to prevent segregation induced by particle size differences. 
Validation  data  are  provided  for  one  full-scale  batch  manufactured  at  the  commercial  site  using 
process  F  active  substance.  The  process  validation  will  be  completed  at  commercial  scale  on  an 
ongoing basis. 
The formulation used clinical studies was of the same composition as that proposed for marketing.  
The capsule and the oral powder formulation have similar bioavailability. 
The  finished  product  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for  appearance, 
identity  (HPLC,  IR),  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  dose  (Ph  Eur),  dissolution, 
moisture content and microbial limit (Ph Eur).  
The conditions of the dissolution test selected enhance to detect potential slow down in dissolution of 
finished product batches due to atazanavir sulphate free base formation. 
Batch analysis data have been provided for 4 production-scale and 1 pilot-scale batches manufactured 
at a development site and for 2 production-scale batches manufactured at the commercial site. All data 
comply  with  the  specifications  and  confirm  the  robustness  and  the  reproducibility  of  the 
manufacturing  process.  Comparable  results  were  obtained  for  batches  manufacturing  with  process 
E/process F active substance. 
Stability of the Product 
Hard capsule 
12-month data long term stability data (25°C/60% RH – intended packaging) have been provided for 
three  batches  (one  batch  of  50  mg,  100  mg  and  200  mg  strength)  containing  atazanavir  sulphate 
synthesised by process F. 18-month supportive long term stability data have been provided for seven 
batches (3 batches of 50 mg strength, 1 batch of 100 mg strength and 3 batches of 200 mg strength) 
containing atazanavir sulphate synthesised by process E.  Accelerated stability studies were performed 
(40°C/75% RH) over a 6-month duration for the product in the commercial packaging and 3 months in 
open dishes.  Data are also available under intermediate conditions (30°C/70% RH).  
4/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Samples  have  also  been  stored  under  stress  conditions  (at  5°C,  50°C  and  in  a  temperature  cycling 
protocol (-15°C/30°C 12 hours every 24 hours for 2 weeks). Photostability studies have shown that the 
drug product is non-light sensitive.  
The data provided support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Powder for oral use 
Stability of the Product before constitution 
Stability  data  are  available  for  four  batches  containing  atazanavir  sulphate  synthesised  either  by 
process  E  or  F.  Up  to  24-month  long-term  stability  data  (25°C/60%  RH  –  packaging  intended  for 
commercialisation    –  open/closed  bottle)  are  available.  Accelerated  stability  studies  were  performed 
(40°C/75%  RH  packaging  intended  for  commercialisation)  over  a  9  weeks  in  open  bottles  and  6 
months in closed bottles. Data are also available under intermediate conditions (30°C/70% RH). 
Samples  have  also  been  stored  under  stress  conditions  (at  5°C,  50°C  and  in  a  temperature  cycling 
protocol (-15°C/30°C 12 hours every 24 hours for 2 weeks)). Photostability studies have shown that 
the finished product is non-light sensitive.  
The data provided support the proposed shelf life, in-use shelf life and storage as defined in the SPC. 
In-use stability after constitution 
The stability of the finished product when constituted was determined by performing dissolution tests 
immediately  after  constitution  in  water,  milk,  applesauce  or  yoghurt  after  3  and  6  hours  storage. 
Chemical stability was also evaluated as a function of pH and temperature. 
The data provided support the proposed in-use shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  forms  selected  are 
adequate  taken  into  account  the  properties  and  stability  of  the  active  substance.  The  polymorphism 
described for atazanavir is not critical. The excipients are commonly used in this kind of formulation 
and  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The  manufacturing  processes  were  developed  and 
optimised  to  obtain  reproducible  finished  product  batches.  Stability  tests  under  ICH  conditions 
indicate that the products are stable for the proposed shelf life.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time of the CPMP opinion there were some outstanding minor quality issues which had no impact on 
the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up 
measures within an agreed timeframe, and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of 
this additional information. 
2. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
GLP aspects 
The studies conducted to assess the pharmacodynamic effects relating to proposed indication were not 
in  compliance  with  GLP  regulations  since  they  were  not  safety  tests  and  compliance  with  GLP 
regulations is not required. 
5/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The ADME pharmacokinetic studies were not in compliance with GLP regulations. The exposure to 
atazanavir  was  verified  in  mice,  rats  (including  pregnant  rats),  pregnant  rabbits,  and  dogs  either  in 
conjunction  with  toxicology  studies  or  as  separate  toxicokinetic  investigations.  These  toxicokinetic 
evaluations  in  support  of  pivotal  toxicology  studies  were  conducted  in  compliance  with  GLP 
regulations. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Atazanavir (ATV) was evaluated for anti-HIV activity in two-drug interaction studies with other anti-
retrovirals. Combinations of atazanavir with stavudine, didanosine, lamivudine, zidovudine, nelfinavir, 
indinavir,  ritonavir,  saquinavir,  or  amprenavir  in  HIV-infected  peripheral  blood  mononuclear  cells 
yielded  additive  antiviral  effects.  The  drug  combinations  did  not  result  in  antagonistic  anti-HIV 
activity or enhanced cytotoxic effects at the highest concentrations used. 
Safety pharmacodynamics 
In  safety  pharmacology  studies,  there  were  no  atazanavir-related  adverse  effects  on,  respiratory,  or 
central nervous system function in rats (≤ 1200 mg/kg/day) or dogs (≤ 360 mg/kg/day).  
Cardiovascular function 
• 
In the in vitro Purkinje fibre assay, atazanavir was shown to increase action potential duration (13% 
increase  at  30  µM  which  is  four  times  the  Cmax  and  17  times  the  Css  in  humans  at  a  400  mg  dose). 
Furthermore, atazanavir-related effects on sodium, potassium, and calcium currents were evaluated in 
vitro.  Atazanavir  weakly  inhibited  sodium  and  HERG-encoded  potassium  currents  (IC50>30  µM) 
while moderately inhibiting calcium currents (IC50 of 10.4 µM). Electrocardiographic changes (sinus 
bradycardia,  prolongation  of  PR  interval,  prolongation  of  QT  interval,  and  prolongation  of  QRS 
complex)  were  only  observed  in  an  initial  2-week  oral  toxicity  study  and  not  in  subsequent  2-week 
and 9-month oral toxicity studies performed in dogs. 
Pharmacokinetics 
ADME  
ADME studies were conducted in the mouse, rat and dog, which are the principal species selected for 
the  safety  evaluation.  The  doses  of  atazanavir  in  these  studies  ranged  from  doses  equivalent  to  the 
human clinical dose to doses used in the toxicology studies. The exposure to atazanavir was verified in 
mice, rats (including pregnant rats), pregnant rabbits, and dogs either in conjunction with toxicology 
studies or as separate toxicokinetic investigations.  
The bisulphate salt (BMS-232632-05) was used in all in vivo studies. The free base (BMS-232632) or 
the bisulphate salt was used in the in vitro experiments. All doses and concentrations are expressed in 
terms  of  the  free  base  equivalent.  If  radiolabeled  material  was  used,  the  radiochemical  purity  of  the 
material was generally > 99%. 
HPLC/UV  and  LC/MS  were  used  to  determine  the  plasma  and  urine  concentrations  of  atazanavir, 
respectively.  The  concentrations  of  radioactivity  in  plasma  and  urine  samples  from  radio  labelled 
studies  were  determined by direct  liquid  scintillation  counting (LSC) of the samples  mixed  with  the 
scintillation cocktail. The samples of blood and the homogenates of faces and various organs/tissues 
were either bleached, solubilised, or combusted prior to analysis by LSC. 
Absorption  
• 
Absolute bioavailability was measured in rat and dog, but not in human. 
The  permeability  of  atazanavir  was  evaluated  in  vitro  using  the  Caco-2  cell  model.  The  apical  to 
basolateral permeability was determined to be pH independent. The permeability coefficient values at 
all  pH  tested  were  ~100  nm/sec  which  was  comparable  to  drugs  that  are  completely  absorbed  in 
humans after oral administration. 
6/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
• 
The in vitro binding of atazanavir to mouse, rat, dog, and human serum proteins was 92.4, 92.8, 92.0, 
and 86.5 %, respectively, and was independent of concentration. Atazanavir was bound to both human 
serum albumin (86.2 %) and α -1-acid glycoprotein (88.7 %). The in vitro distribution of atazanavir in 
mouse, rat, dog, and human red blood cells was 43.5, 26.5, 30.4 and 29.5 %, respectively, which was 
independent of concentration. 
Following  administration  of  a  single  100  mg/kg  oral  dose  of  dual  labelled  [14C]-atazanavir  to  rat, 
tissue  to  plasma  AUC  ratios  were  <  1  for  cerebrum,  cerebellum,  bone,  testes,  eyes,  bone  marrow, 
heart,  skeletal  muscle,  skin,  spleen,  thymus,  epididymis,  prostate,  salivary  glands  and  ovaries.  The 
ratios were > 1 for adipose tissue, adrenals, aorta, kidneys, lungs, mesenteric lymph nodes, pancreas, 
pituitary, trachea and small intestine. The highest ratios (>10) were observed for liver, large intestine 
and  stomach. By 24  h, the  majority of the  radioactivity was excreted  and  no  single tissue contained 
more than 1 % of the dosed radioactivity. Tissue Cmax and AUC values for females were greater than 
for males, ∼ 2 fold, but there were no appreciable gender-related differences in the tissue Tmax and T1/2 
values. Whole body autoradiography showed a similar profile. 
Radioactivity  was  distributed  in  foetal  tissues  following  a  single  oral  (100  mg/kg)  dose  of  dual 
labelled  [14C]-atazanavir  to  pregnant  rats.  Foetal  tissue  concentrations  were  highest  in  the  kidneys, 
blood and amniotic fluid and lowest in the brain. The concentrations of radioactivity in the foetus and 
amniotic  fluid  were  low  relative  to  the  equivalent  maternal  tissues  except  the  foetal  brain  which 
exceeded maternal cerebrum at most time points. The whole body analyses (WBA) data for pregnant 
female rats were consistent with these results. 
Radioactivity was detectable in milk within 1 h after an oral (100 mg/kg) dose of dual labelled [14C]-
atazanavir to lactating rats. The mean concentration of radioactivity in milk increased until it reached a 
maximum at 4  h postdose. The  milk/plasma concentration ratios  were generally greater than 1, with 
ratios ranging from 0.93 to 3.46. 
• 
Metabolism 
Metabolic pathway 
Metabolism  was  studied  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  The  metabolic  pathways  of  atazanavir  involve 
monooxygenation,  dioxygenation,  glucuronidation,  N-dealkylation,  hydrolysis  and  oxygenation  with 
dehydrogenation. 
Several  oxidative,  but  no  conjugated  metabolites  of  atazanavir  were  detected  following  incubation 
with mouse, rat, dog or human liver microsomes and cryopreserved hepatocytes.  
CYP enzymes responsible for the metabolism 
Incubation with specific inhibitors of CYP isozymes using human liver microsomes showed that the 
metabolism  of  atazanavir  was  inhibited  71  and  100%  by  CYP3A4  inhibitors,  troleandomycin  and 
ketoconazole, respectively; while extent of inhibition was only 0-16% by CYP1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C9, 
2C19, 2D6, and 2E1 inhibitors. Furthermore, a correlation analysis between the rates of oxidation of 
atazanavir to that of a substrate of CYP3A4 (testosterone) was significant. These results indicate that 
CYP3A4  is  the  major  isozyme  responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  atazanavir  in  human  liver 
microsomes 
CYP enzymes interactions 
Atazanavir was determined to be a competitive inhibitor of CYP3A4, with a Ki value of 2.35 µM; in 
comparison,  the  Ki  of  ketoconazole  for  CYP3A4  in  this  system  is  <  0.1  µM.  Atazanavir  was  also 
found  to  competitively  inhibit  CYP1A2  and  CYP2C9,  but  the  Ki  values  were  appreciably  higher 
(≥12.2 µM) than the steady state plasma concentrations of atazanavir observed in humans following 
400  mg  doses.  Atazanavir  was  not  an  inhibitor  of  CYP2A6,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6,  CYP2E1,  or 
CYP4A9/11. It showed little or no capacity to function as a mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP1A2, 
CYP2A6,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6,  CYP2E1,  or  CYP4A9/11.  In  another  study,  atazanavir 
inhibited testosterone 6 β-hydroxylation (marker of CYP3A4 activity) by 61-92% in primary human 
hepatocytes  and  immortalised  human  hepatocytes  transfected  with  CYP3A4.  Atazanavir  did  not 
7/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
induce  testosterone  6  β-hydroxylation  in  primary  human  hepatocytes,  indicating  that  it  is  not  an 
inducer of CYP3A4 in vitro. 
Glucuronidation inhibition 
Atazanavir was found to inhibit bilirubin glucuronidation in microsomal fractions of lymphoblast cells 
heterologously expressing human  uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase 1A1 (UGT1A1)  by a 
linear “mixed-type ” mechanism, with Ki and αKi (measure of affinity of enzyme-substrate complex 
for the inhibitor) values of 1.9 and 16.4 µM, respectively. However, the contribution of αKi to overall 
inhibition  was  small  (<  10%)  suggesting  that  competitive  inhibition  is  predominant.  Indinavir  also 
exhibited  inhibition  of  bilirubin  glucuronidation  by  a  similar  mechanism,  but  had  a  higher  Ki  (47.9 
µM) and αKi (1317 µM) than atazanavir. 
The IC50 values for the inhibition of bilirubin glucuronidation in human liver microsomes and cDNA-
expressed UGT1A1 were similar for atazanavir (2.5 and 2.4 µM, respectively) and nelfinavir (2.7 and 
8.4 µM, respectively) and saquinavir (5.0 and 7.3 µM, respectively), but were appreciably lower than 
the value for indinavir (68 and 87 µM, respectively). However, the IC50 values for these other drugs 
were > 13 fold above the respective unbound Cmax values at the therapeutic doses compared to ~ 2.4 
fold above the unbound Cmax for atazanavir. 
Excretion 
Since  only  a  small  amount  of  radioactivity  remained  in  rat  tissues  24  h  post  dose  the  un-recovered 
portion  of  the  dose  was  presumed  to  be  either  due  to  incomplete  urinary/faecal  collection  or  due  to 
loss by radioactivity as 14CO2 in expired air. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Atazanavir demonstrated a minimal order of acute toxicity in mice and rats.  
(cid:190)  In mice, minimal lethal doses were 1600 and 800 mg/kg in males and females, respectively and 
were  not  associated  with  any  drug-related  gross  or  histopathologic  changes.  Atazanavir  was 
well tolerated in mice up to 400 mg/kg.  
(cid:190)  In  rats,  the  minimal  lethal  dose  was  greater  than  1600  mg/kg;  and  although  no  drug-related 
changes were observed. 
The  greater  sensitivity of mice  to the  acute  effects  of atazanavir  compared to  rats  may be related  to 
higher systemic exposure to atazanavir as demonstrated in subsequent toxicity studies. 
Repeat-dose toxicity 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats, atazanavir was administered at dosages up to 1200 mg/kg in a 
two  weeks  study.  At  the  high  dose  reduced  food  intake  and  signs  of  dehydration  were  present 
suggesting that this dose was close to the maximal tolerable level. Results showed that liver was the 
main target organ with hypertrophy, vacuolisation, increased weight and increased levels of bilirubin. 
No signs of cholestasis were reported. Cholesterol levels were augmented in higher than 300 mg/kg. 
Haematological  parameters were also  slightly  affected  with  a reduction  in  white blood  cell  numbers 
observed  above  300  mg/kg.  Glucose  levels  were  augmented  at  1200  mg/kg.  All  these  effects  were 
mainly observed in females due to a higher exposure (1.2 to 3.2 fold compared to males).  
In three and six months studies atazanavir was administered at dosages up to 900 mg/kg. Liver was the 
main  target  organ  with  the  same  signs  observed  precedent  in  the  two  weeks  study.  At  six  months 
animals showed an augmentation in water consumption and of urine volume suggesting that animals 
were dehydrated. NOAEL was less than 100 mg/kg.  
In repeat-dose toxicity studies in dogs, atazanavir was administered at dosages up to 360 mg/kg in a 
two weeks study. Dosages higher than 90  mg/kg were poorly tolerated. A second study of the same 
duration  was  then  undertaken  with  dosages  up  to  75  mg/kg.  Unexpectedly,  this  high  dose  was  well 
tolerated by the animals with no effects observed.  
8/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  the  9-month  pivotal  study  conducted  in  dogs  the  applicant  used  90  mg/kg  for  the  high  dose. 
However since the 90 mg/kg was very well tolerated the applicant decided to raise the 10-mg/kg doses 
to 180 mg/kg 3 months after the beginning of the study. Consequently, animals of the first group were 
treated  for  3  months  with  10  mg/kg  and  6  months  with  180  mg/kg.  Results  showed  that  increased 
levels of bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase and gamma glutamyltransferase. Not all the animals showed 
these  effects.  However,  no  signs  of  cholestasis  were  reported  in  this  study.  Toxicokinetic  results 
showed a high variability rending the interpretation difficult. 
Toxicokinetics 
In the 3-month oral range-finding toxicity study, the exposure of female mice to atazanavir increased 
in a ratio less than the increment in dose following oral doses of 40-640 mg/kg/day, but the exposure 
in male mice increased in a ratio more than the increment in dose over the range of 20-80 mg/kg/day. 
In the 6-month oral toxicity study in rats, exposure was generally less than dose proportional over the 
range of 100-900 mg/kg/day and was 2.4-4.9 fold higher in females compared to males. There were 
13-49% decreases in exposure after repeated doses above 100 mg/kg/day compared to the exposures 
after  the  first  dose,  but  exposure  after  dosing  for  3  months  was  reasonably  similar  to  those  after  6 
months of dosing. 
In the 9-month oral toxicity study in dogs, greater than dose-proportional systemic drug exposure was 
observed  over  the  range  of  10-180  mg/kg/day,  increases  or  decreases  in  systemic  exposure  upon 
repeated oral administration were not apparent.  
Genotoxicity 
Atazanavir was evaluated in a comprehensive battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies. In an 
in vitro cytogenetics test in primary human lymphocytes, ATV increased chromosomal aberrations at 
concentrations =240 µg/ml in the  presence of  metabolic  activation and  =30  µg/ml  in the absence  of 
metabolic  activation.  These  findings  were  reproduced  in  a  second  in  vitro  cytogenetics  assay  in 
primary human lymphocytes at similar to higher ATV concentrations.  
In  other  in  vitro  studies,  ATV  was  not  mutagenic  in  a  bacterial  mutagenicity  screening  test  or  a 
definitive Ames reverse-mutation assay.  
In the in- vitro cytogenetics assay in human peripheral lymphocytes, the dose response for clastogenic 
effects in the presence and absence of metabolic activation suggests the parent compound (rather than 
a metabolite) is clastogenic. 
In  in-vivo  genotoxicity  studies,  ATV  did  not  induce  micronuclei  in  bone  marrow,  DNA  damage  in 
duodenum, or unscheduled DNA repair  in liver at  plasma  and tissue  concentrations exceeding those 
that were clastogenic in vitro.  
Carcinogenicity 
Two studies have been conducted to test the carcinogenic potential of atazanavir.  
In rats, atazanavir has been given orally by gavage at dosages up to 1200 mg/kg (0, 100, 350 and 1200 
mg/kg).  Exposures  at  the  highest  dose  are  1,6  and  6  fold  the  human  exposure  in  males  and  females 
respectively.  The  results  are  negative.  Animals  showed  a  dose-related  augmentation  of  lipidic 
hepatocellular  vacuolation  and  hepatocellular  hypertrophy.  However,  no  hepatocellular  necrosis  was 
recorded in this study.  
Mice  have  been  treated  orally  at  dosages  up  to  80  mg/kg  and  360  mg/kg  in  males  and  females 
respectively (0, 20, 40,  80  mg/kg  in  males; 0,  40,  120  and  360  mg/kg in females). Exposures at the 
highest dose are 4,2 and 7,2 fold the human exposure in males and females respectively based on a 2-
week toxicokinetic study. Results showed a significant augmentation of hepatocellular adenoma at 360 
mg/kg  in  female  mice.  At  this  same  dose,  there  was  an  increased  incidence  and  severity  of 
hepatocellular  single-cell  necrosis.  In  addition,  hepatic  foci  of  cellular  alteration,  hepatocellular 
9/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypertrophy and cytoplasmic lipid vacuolation were also present at this high dose, suggesting a toxic 
effect  of atazanavir  on the liver.  No  augmentation of hepatocellular  carcinoma has  been recorded  in 
this study. Results in males were negative.  
Investigative  studies  have  been  also  conducted  to  elucidate  the  mechanism  of  adenoma  induced  by 
atazanavir.  
PCNA labelling was performed on livers of female and male mice from control and high-dose group 
that  have  survived  to  terminal  necropsy.  No  differences  were  observed  between  control  and  treated 
animals probably due to the low proliferative potential of mice aged hepatocytes.  
However,  in  a  2-week  study,  a  statistical  augmentation  of  hepatocyte  proliferation  was  observed  in 
female mice treated with 360 mg/kg assessed by BrdU labelling. In addition, transaminase levels were 
significantly  augmented  and  single  cell  necrosis  was  also  present  in  this  group  of  animals.  Results 
were negative in control and high-dose male mice groups (80 mg/kg). 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
In the first study conducted in both males and females at dosages up to 1400 mg/kg, results showed a 
decreased fertility rate at 1400 mg/kg and a significant reduction in the number of oestrus cycles since 
375 mg/kg. Consequently, males from this study were placed in cohabitation with untreated females 
for  2  weeks.  Mating  and  fertility  were  not  affected  in  males  at  any  dose.  No  effect  on  fertility  was 
observed when treated females (1400 mg/kg) were mated with non-treated males. 
In the embryo-foetal development studies, atazanavir produced no adverse embryonic or foetal effects 
at  maternally  toxic  doses  up  to  1920  mg/kg/day  in  rats  and  60  mg/kg/day  in  rabbits.  Atazanavir 
induced a decrease in body weight at weaning at the maternally toxic doses (1000 mg/kg). 
Other toxicity studies 
The  toxicity  of  atazanavir  was  further  evaluated  in  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  ocular  and  dermal  irritation 
studies. Atazanavir is an ocular irritant. 
A  1-month  oral  study  of  T-cell  dependent  antibody  response  in  rats  showed  no  evidence  of 
immunotoxicity of atazanavir.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The risk of an adverse environmental impact from use of atazanavir is of no immediate concern based 
on  the  results  from  a  Phase  I  environmental  risk  assessment.  The  excipients  in  the  capsules  and  the 
other components of the oral powder have been in use for many years and are not expected to pose a 
significant impact to the environment. Atazanavir is poorly water-soluble and is expected to adsorb to 
sludge  particles  to  some  extent.  The  PEC  for  soil  is  less  than  the  action  limit  of  10  µg/kg. 
Additionally, the compound is not toxic to sludge microorganisms at concentrations up to 1000 mg/L, 
and the PEC/PNEC ratio is less than 1 for aquatic species. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
In  safety  pharmacology  studies,  there  were  no  atazanavir-related  adverse  effects  on,  cardiovascular 
respiratory, or central nervous system function in rats (≤ 1200 mg/kg/day) or dogs (≤ 360 mg/kg/day). 
Atazanavir  minimally  increased  the  duration  of  the  rabbit  Purkinje  fibre  action  potential,  weakly 
inhibited  sodium  and  potassium  IKr  (HERG-encoded),  and  IKs  currents  and  moderately  inhibited 
calcium current in vitro.  
NOAEL  obtained  in  repeated  toxicity  studies  (≥  100  mg/kg  in  rats  and  ≥  30  mg/kg  in  dogs) 
correspond to exposure less than the one obtained in humans. However, animals have been exposed to 
the  highest  dosages  possible  since  augmenting  the  doses  would  not  have  result  in  a  proportional 
increase of animal exposure. 
10/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  main  target  organ  identified  in  these  repeated  toxicity  studies  was  the  liver  with  hypertrophy, 
vacuolisation,  increased  weight  and  increased  levels  of  bilirubin  observed  in  rats.  In  dogs,  only 
bilirubin,  alkaline  phosphatase  and  gamma  glutamyltransferase  levels  were  augmented.  No 
histological signs of cholestasis were observed in these studies. Augmentation of bilirubin levels may 
be  the  consequence  of  altered  glucuronidation  by  atazanavir  as  shown  in  microsomal  fractions  of 
lymphoblast cells heterologously expressing human uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase 1A1 
(UGT1A1).  The  hepatic  alterations  observed  in  rats  generally  did  not  progress  between  3  and  6 
months of dosing and, with the exception of increased liver weights (900 mg/kg/day), were reversible. 
Atazanavir  was  the  first  PI  to  be  shown  clastogenic  in  vitro.  Regarding  genotoxic  potential,  the 
applicant has provided new data with the answer to the day 120 LoQ, indicating that atazanavir did not 
induce  DNA  damage  in  duodenum  (UDS  and  comet  assay),  or  unscheduled  DNA  repair  in  liver 
(UDS) at plasma and tissue concentrations exceeding those that were clastogenic in vitro. The increase 
in chromosome aberrations was reproducible in the second in vitro primary human lymphocyte assay, 
thus  confirming  that  atazanavir  is  clastogenic  in  vitro.  Nevertheless,  the  mechanism  for  in  vitro 
clastogenicity  is  not  known.  The  fact,  that  atazanavir  did  not  induce  micronuclei,  DNA  damage 
(comets), or UDS in a variety of rodent tissues in vivo at plasma and tissue concentrations exceeding 
those that were clastogenic in vitro, could suggest that the mechanism of in vitro clastogenicity may 
not be biologically relevant in animals and humans or has a threshold.  
The  results  obtained  in  the  carcinogenicity  studies  presented  suggest  that  atazanavir  induced 
hepatocellular adenoma only in female  mice at the highest dose tested. This observation is probably 
due to an epigenetic mechanism with hepatocyte hyperproliferation after cell necrosis, which is a well-
known mechanism, currently observed in rodents. Furthermore, it is well recognised by the scientific 
community  that  mice  present  an  increased  sensitivity  to  hepatocellular  tumours.  In  this  mice  study, 
liver carcinomas were not present, and in rats, all the results were negative. All together, these results 
suggest that atazanavir will not increase the carcinogenic risk in humans. 
A  complete  battery  of  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  was  conducted  in  rats  and 
rabbits  to  assess  potential  effects  of  atazanavir  on  fertility  and  reproductive  performance,  gestation, 
parturition, and lactation of the parental generation; embryonic and foetal  development; and growth, 
development,  and  reproductive  performance  of  the  offspring.  Although  atazanavir  altered  oestrous 
cyclus  in  female  rats  at  all  doses,  reproductive  performance,  including  mating,  was  not  adversely 
affected at any dose.  
3. 
Clinical aspects 
GCP aspects 
The clinical studies were conducted in accordance with good clinical practice. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Atazanavir  (ATV)  is  a  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  protease  inhibitor.  It  is  an  azapeptide 
that blocks the processing of viral gag-pol proteins in HIV-1 infected cells, thus preventing formation 
of mature virions. 
Primary pharmacology 
• 
Inhibition of HIV protease by ATV  
Atazanavir  inhibited  the  cleavage  activity  of  HIV-RF  protease  with  a  Ki  of  0.75  nM,  which  is 
comparable to the inhibitory activity of other protease inhibitors.  Indinavir, nelfinavir, saquinavir, and 
ritonavir gave Ki values of 0.73 nM, 1.05 nM, 0.39 nM, and 1.01 nM, respectively, in this assay.  
11/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atazanavir inhibited the cleavage of gag (p55) by HIV protease with an IC50 of 47 nM. 
The cytotoxic concentration of ATV is 6500-23000 fold higher than IC and revealed a selective index 
comparable to other approved HIV protease inhibitor. 
• 
Antiviral activity of ATV in vitro 
Experiments  with  wild  type  HIV  laboratory  strains  have  been  performed  in  the  absence  and  in  the 
presence of 40 % of human serum to assess the antiviral activity of atazanavir.  
In the  absence of serum,  comparative studies revealed  that  atazanavir (with  an EC50  value  of 2  –  5 
nM)  is  2- to  20-fold  more  active than  other  protease  inhibitors including indinavir (IDV),  nelfinavir 
(NFV),  ritonavir  (RTV), saquinavir (SQV), and  amprenavir (APV). The  activity  of atazanavir  (EC50 
values) against seven subtypes of group M and against a group O isolate varied by more than 10-fold. 
Activity against other subtypes of HIV-1 or against HIV-2 has not been explored. 
In 40% human serum the atazanavir EC50 value increased from 1.5 nM to 7.8 nM (5-fold), similar to 
the other protease inhibitors but significantly less than nelfinavir (≥ 17-fold). The resulting atazanavir 
EC50  value  is  3-to  19-fold  lower  than  the  EC50  of  each  of  the  approved  protease  inhibitors. 
Lopinavir/ritonavir was not tested. In 50% human serum the antiviral activity of lopinavir against HIV 
IIB in MT4 cells was 102+44 nM. 
The  two  metabolites  of  ATV  identified  in  the  systemic  circulation  following  administration  of 
atazanavir to humans have no antiviral activity. 
• 
Resistance data in vitro 
According to in vitro characterisation of resistance profile of atazanavir, it appears that:  
(cid:190)  After in vitro passages in presence of atazanavir, 3ATV-resistant strains of HIV with multiple 
mutational  patterns  were  selected.  Of  note,  N88S  substitution  appeared  in  2  of  3  strains  and 
I84V in the third strain.  
(cid:190)  According  to  cross-resistance  analyses,  viruses  resistant  to  atazanavir  remained  sensitive  to 
SQV and APV. Conversely, viruses resistant to NFV, SQV or APV remained sensitive to ATV 
while IDV or RTV resistant isolates displayed a cross resistance to ATV. 
Resistance data in vivo  
Phenotypic analysis of 115 isolates from naïve and experienced patients undergoing virologic failure 
identified  27  isolates  (24%)  with  decreased  susceptibility  to  ATV  and  genotypic  analyses  were 
performed in a subgroup of these isolates. ATV was also profiled against a panel of 399 susceptible 
and  551  PI  resistant  clinical  isolates  (Virologic,  VIRCO,  pre-screening  enrolment  process  of  ATV 
clinical studies 009, 043 and 045). 
Based on the analyses of these clinical isolates, two distinct resistance patterns are confirmed: 
(cid:190)  In antiretroviral naïve patients, the I50L substitution, sometimes in combination with an A71V 
change  is  emerging  as  the  signature  mutation  for  atazanavir.  This  resistance  profile  did  not 
result in a loss of sensitivity to the other protease inhibitors tested and there is no evidence of 
specific  cross-resistance  between  atazanavir  and  amprenavir  while  an  I50V  substitution  has 
been previously shown to reduce sensitivity to amprenavir. 
(cid:190)  In antiretroviral pre-treated patients, the results of the cross resistance study suggest that ATV is 
expected  to  remain  poorly  effective  against  isolates  resistant  to  more  than  2  of  the  currently 
marketed  PIs  (only  25%  of  isolates  resistant  to  3  -  4  PIs  remain  susceptible  to  ATV).  The 
12/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accumulation of mutations (>5 at residues 10, 20 24, 33, 36, 46, 48, 54, 63, 71, 73, 82, 84 or 90) 
shortly  leads  to  atazanavir  resistance.  Of  note,  these  mutations  are  known  to  play  a  part  in 
amprenavir and lopinavir/ritonavir resistance. 
Further virological data were requested by the CPMP to expand on the initial observations and better 
characterised the pathway to resistance to atazanavir. Data are now derived from 23 clinical isolates in 
atazanavir  treatment  naïve  patients  and  in  74  PI  experienced  patients  treated  with  ATV,  ATV/RTV 
and  ATV/SQV.  In  naïve  patients,  data  confirmed  that  the  I50L  substitution,  previously  described  as 
the  signature  mutation  for  atazanavir,  resulted  in  decreased  susceptibility  to  atazanavir.  Resistance 
levels ranged from 3.5 to 29-fold. This resistance appears to be specific for atazanavir. Within the 74 
isolates  from  experienced  patients  who  developed  resistance  to  atazanavir  on  therapy  that  included 
either ATV, ATV/r and ATV/SQV 9 isolates from patients treated with either ATV and ATV/r display 
the I50L phenotype previously described in naïve patients. The remaining isolates showed no evidence 
of the I50L substitution and no obvious pattern of changes beyond accumulation of the primary and 
secondary resistance substitutions described previously to be involved in PI resistance. These isolates 
developed higher levels of resistance to the other PIs. All isolates from experienced patients who were 
treated with the PI combination of ATV/SQV become resistant to both ATV and SQV.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The major shortcoming of the pharmacokinetic programme is that it is almost exclusively based on the 
use  of  atazanavir  unboosted  at  400  mg  QD  dose,  whereas  it  is  recommended  to  use  atazanavir  only 
boosted  with  ritonavir  at  300/100  mg  QD.  This  is  explained  by  the  fact  that  the  400  mg  dose  of 
atazanavir was mainly used in the clinical development. The use of atazanavir boosted with ritonavir 
at 300/100 mg QD, considered as an optimisation of the schedule regimen, was only explored later in 
the clinical development programme.  
Therefore, 
interaction  profile  of 
atazanavir/ritonavir at 300/100 mg QD will be further substantiated within the frame of post approval 
commitments. 
the  pharmacokinetics  parameters  and  especially 
the 
Healthy volunteers 
AI424028       
AI424056 
Ratio 
Studies  
AUC TAU (ng/h/ml)  
Geometric Mean (C.V.%) 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
Geometric Mean (C.V.%) 
Cmin (ng/ml)  
Mean (S.D.) 
ATV 400 
30495 (21) 
ATV 300 + RTV 100 
57039 (37) 
Approx. 2 
5690 (19) 
6129 (31) 
Approx 1.5 
186 (118) 
1441 (757) 
Approx 7-8 
Co-administration  of  ATV  300  mg  and  RTV  100  mg  both  QD  was  selected  for  further  clinical 
development since it resulted in a substantial increase in the mean Cmin value of ATV relative to ATV 
400 mg alone. 
In patients, the impact of ritonavir on the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir could be observed within the 
comparison of Cmin values from study AI424008 in antiretroviral naïve patients (atazanavir unboosted 
at 400 mg QD dose) and preliminary Cmin values in studyAI424045 (atazanavir boosted with ritonavir 
at 300/100 mg QD dose). A 2-3-fold increase of Cmin was observed when boosted with ritonavir: 
Atazanavir 400 mg QD:    
Cmin (ng/ml) 273+298 
Atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg QD:  Cmin (ng/ml) 627+343 
13/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant committed to submit the pharmacokinetic report of the study AI424045. This report will 
further  substantiate  the  pharmacokinetics  parameters  achieved  with  the  recommended  posology  of 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg QD. 
Atazanavir  pharmacokinetics  exhibits  a  nonlinear  disposition  and  a  high  interindividual  variability 
(CV>90%).  There  was  a  greater  than  dose-proportional  increase  in  AUC  and  Cmax  in  fasted  and  fed 
Healthy Volunteers after 200-800 mg atazanavir. Also, accumulation on multiple dosing was greater 
than predicted from single dose data and was about 3-fold after 400 mg dosing after food.  
Bioequivalence has been demonstrated between the oral powder and the capsule. Considering the lack 
of data currently available in paediatric patients, this oral powder will be proposed for adults not able 
to swallow the capsule 
• 
Absorption 
In  a  pharmacokinetic  study  in  HIV-positive  patients  (n=10),  multiple  dosing  of  REYATAZ  300  mg 
once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with a light meal for 2 weeks produced a mean steady-
state Cmax of 5,233 ng/ml, occurring approximately 3.0 hours (Tmax) after administration, and a mean 
steady-state trough concentration of 862 ng/ml. The mean steady-state plasma AUC of atazanavir was 
53,761 ng·hr/ml.   
• 
Food effect 
Administration  of atazanavir with  either a light  meal  or  a  high fat  meal decreased the coefficient  of 
variation of AUC and Cmax approximately one-half compared to the fasting state. A similar decrease in 
the coefficient of variation was noted when REYATAZ 300 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily was administered with a light meal in healthy subjects. To enhance bioavailability and minimise 
variability, atazanavir should be taken with food. 
• 
Distribution 
Atazanavir was approximately 86% bound to human serum proteins over a concentration range of 100 
to 10,000 ng/ml. Atazanavir binds to both alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) and albumin to a similar 
extent (89% and 86%, respectively, at 1,000 ng/ml).  
• 
Metabolism 
Studies  in  humans  and  in  vitro  studies  using  human  liver  microsomes  have  demonstrated  that 
atazanavir  is  mainly  metabolised  by  CYP3A4  isozyme  to  oxygenated  metabolites.  Metabolites  are 
then  excreted  in  the  bile  as  either  free  or  glucuronidated  metabolites.  Additional  minor  metabolic 
pathways  consist  of  N-dealkylation  and  hydrolysis.  Two  minor  metabolites  of  atazanavir  in  plasma 
have been characterised. Neither metabolite demonstrated in vitro antiviral activity. 
• 
Elimination 
The  mean elimination half-life of  atazanavir in HIV-infected adult patients (n= 10) was 8.6 hours at 
steady state following a dose of 300 mg daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with a light meal. 
Special populations 
• 
Impaired renal function 
In  healthy  subjects,  the  renal  elimination  of  unchanged  atazanavir  was  approximately  7%  of  the 
administered dose. There are no pharmacokinetic data available on patients with renal insufficiency, 
however the impact of renal impairment on atazanavir elimination is anticipated to be minimal. 
14/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Impaired hepatic function 
Atazanavir is metabolised and eliminated primarily by the liver. Atazanavir has been studied in adult 
patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment after a single 400-mg dose. The mean AUC(0-∞) 
was 42% greater in patients with impaired hepatic function than in healthy volunteers. The mean half-
life  of  atazanavir  in  hepatically  impaired  patients  was  12.1 hours  compared  to  6.4 hours  in  healthy 
volunteers.  The  effects  of  hepatic  impairment  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  atazanavir  after  a  300  mg 
dose with ritonavir have not been studied. Concentrations of atazanavir with or without ritonavir are 
expected  to  be  increased  in  patients  with  moderately  or  severely  impaired  hepatic  function.  The 
applicant is requested to further explore this issue.  
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic 
A  pharmacokinetic  population  sub  study  (n=96)  was  derived  from  study  AI424007  in  antiretroviral 
naïve  patients  exposed  to  atazanavir  200,  400  and  500  mg  QD.  This  study  demonstrated  the 
relationship  between  AUC  and  Cmin  and  both  safety  (hyperbilirubinemia)  and  efficacy  (log  drop  in 
viral load). However, the final report of the phase II population pharmacokinetic study based on data 
collected in patients of studies AI424007 and also AI424008 did not demonstrate a strong relationship 
between AUC or Cmin atazanavir and drop from baseline in log10 HIV RNA. Nevertheless, based on 
this modelling, the applicant concluded that the 400 mg QD dose would achieve an acceptable balance 
between antiviral activity and hyperbilirubinemia. However, a significant inter-subject variability was 
observed in phase I studies, Cmin =273+298 and AUC=22262+20158. 
• 
Interaction studies 
The pharmacokinetic programme included assessments of interactions with other antiretroviral drugs 
(NRTIs:  ddI,  d4T,  ZDV,  3TC;  NNRTIs:  EFV;  and  PI:  RTV,  SQV).  Also,  with  drugs  used  for  the 
treatment  of  opportunistic  infections  (rifabutin,  clarithromycin,  ketoconazole),  other  drugs  known  to 
be  metabolised  by  CYP3A4  (diltiazem)  and  drugs  known  to  affect  QT  or  PR  interval  (atenolol, 
diltiazem, clarithromycin).  
At  the  time  of  the  original  submission,  the  following  results  of  multiple  dose  studies  performed  in 
healthy  subjects  with  atazanavir  were  submitted.  These  interaction  studies  were  mainly  performed 
with  atazanavir  unboosted  at  400  mg  QD  regimen.  This  is  regarded  as  a  major  shortcoming  with 
regard  to the potential extrapolation to the  recommended  posology  (atazanavir/ritonavir  300/100  mg 
QD).  
Combined drug 
Effect on Atazanavir 
Effect  of  Atazanavir  on 
Combined drug 
lamivudine 
stavudine 
zidovudine 
Didanosine (with antiacid) 
chewable tablet 
Efavirenz 
Efavirenz  
ATV/RTV 300/100 QD 
Ritonavir 
ATV/RTV 
regimens studied:  
schedule 
200/100 QD 
200/200 QD 
400/100 QD 
400/200 QD 
300/100 QD 
no change 
exposure 
90% 
decrease, 
(concomitant administration) 
no change (1 hour interval) 
Decrease, 75% exposure 
Increase 39% (AUC) 
no change 
no change 
no change 
5  fold  (200/100)  versus  200  mg 
ATV alone 
3  fold  (300/100)  versus  300  mg 
ATV alone 
≈2 fold for other combinations 
15/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Saquinavir 
(ATV  400  /SQV  800,  1200 
and 1600 mg QD)   
Diltiazem 
Ketoconazole 
Rifabutin 
Oral contraceptives 
Norethindrone 
Ethinyl estradiol 
Clarithromycin 
no change 
5-10 fold increase 
no change 
no change 
no change 
no change 
30% increase  
2 fold increase 
2 fold (AUC) increase 
2 fold (AUC) increase 
50% (AUC) increase 
2 fold increase 
• 
Interaction study with atazanavir and tenofovir 
During the procedure, the applicant provided the results of the drug interaction study (AI454181).  
Co administration of atazanavir and tenofovir leads to a decrease in atazanavir mean AUC and Cmax 
values  by  approximately  20-25%  and  a  decrease  in  the  mean  Cmin  value  by  approximately  40%  in 
comparison to  ATV 400  mg  QD  alone while lamivudine, stavudine or  zidovudine  did not appear  to 
interact with ATV. 
The results of study AI424045, suggest that the effect of tenofovir is compensated when atazanavir is 
boosted  with  ritonavir  (300/100  mg  QD).  The  results  are  in  line  with  a  report  from  Taburet  et  al. 
(CROI, 2003). 
However,  the  applicant  should  further  investigate  this  drug-drug  interaction,  in  particular  to 
investigate  the  mechanisms  underlying  the  decrease  in  ATV  blood  levels  when  it  is  given  with 
tenofovir.  
In this study the interaction between atazanavir (400 mg QD) and ddI was also explored. However, the 
results of the co-administration were compared to the non-validated use of ddI-EC 500 mg with food. 
Therefore, the study design does not allow for any conclusions regarding co-administration of ddI-EC 
and atazanavir. 
Clinical efficacy  
Three  clinical  studies  in  experienced  patients  (AI424009,  AI424043,  AI424045)  were  submitted. 
Moreover,  some  clinical  studies  were  performed  in  antiretroviral  naïve  patients  with  atazanavir 
unboosted  (400mg  QD).  However,  only  an  indication  in  treatment-experienced  patients  was  finally 
claimed by the MAH. 
The dose selection was based on phase I studies and PK/PD studies (see above). 
Main studies 
• 
Description of the studies 
Three studies in antiretroviral-experienced patients (AI424009, AI424043, AI424045) were submitted.  
In two studies (AI424009, AI424043) studies, atazanavir was used unboosted at the 400 mg QD dose. 
In study AI424045, atazanavir was used boosted with ritonavir at the 300/100 mg QD dose.  
The studies were designed as non-inferiority with previously accepted predefined margins for head to 
head comparisons.  
16/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The comparators used were nelfinavir (studies AI424007, AI424008) and efavirenz (study AI424034) 
in  antiretroviral  naïve  patients,  in  antiretroviral  experienced  patients  saquinavir/ritonavir  (study 
AI424009) and lopinavir/ritonavir (studies AI424043 and AI424045) were used as comparators. 
• 
Study AI424009  
At the time of the initial submission, study AI424009 was the only study provided to substantiate the 
efficacy and safety of atazanavir in antiretroviral-experienced patients.  
Study  AI424009  was  a  randomised,  active  controlled  multi-centre  three-arm  study  designed  to 
compare  the  safety  and  antiviral  activity  of  atazanavir  400/600  QD/SQV  1200  QD  RTV  400 
BID/SQV 400 BID.  
Antiretroviral experienced patients (≥ 18 years) with plasma HIV RNA viral load ≥ 1,000 c/ml and a 
CD4  cell  count  ≥ 100 cells/mm3  (or  ≥ 75 cells/mm3  with  no  prior  history  of  any  AIDS-defining 
diagnoses) obtained within 4 weeks prior to randomisation were enrolled. 
The Study was blinded only with respect to the dose level of atazanavir (400 mg or 600 mg). 
• 
• 
• 
Regime I: ATV 400 mg QD +SQV 1200 mg QD + 2NRTIs** 
Regime II: ATV 600 mg QD +SQV 1200 mg QD + 2NRTIs**  
Regime III: RTV 400 mg + SQV 400 mg + 2NRTIs 
**Subjects  received  two  NRTIs  to  which  their  screening  viral  isolate  was  sensitive  (≤  2.5  times  the 
EC50). The NRTI combinations allowed were ddI + d4T, d4T + 3TC, ddI + ZDV, or 3TC + ZDV. The 
Investigators  selected  NRTIs  based  on  the  phenotypic  susceptibility  results.  If  phenotypic  resistance 
testing could not be performed, and the subject was otherwise eligible for the study, the subject was 
assigned to two NRTIs never previously taken. 
Eighty-five subjects were randomised (34 ATV400/SQV; 28 ATV600/SQV, 23 RTV/SQV). 
No reliable interpretation of this study could be made since a high rate of premature discontinuation 
was observed (52% in the RTV/SQV control arm). 
In  response  to  the  major  objection  pertaining  to  the  insufficiency  of  the  efficacy  demonstration  in 
antiretroviral experienced patients t, the applicant has provided the results of two new studies:  
• 
• 
In both studies lopinavir/ritonavir was used as comparator. 
Study AI424043: atazanavir unboosted  
Study AI424045: atazanavir boosted with ritonavir low dose  
• 
Study AI424043  
This  was  a  randomised,  multinational,  open-label,  active-controlled,  two-arm  study  to  compare  the 
antiviral  activity,  metabolic  changes,  safety,  and  tolerability  of  ATV  vs.  LPV/RTV,  each  in 
combination  with  two  nucleosides  (ZDV  +  3TC,  d4T  +  3TC,  ZDV  +  ddI,  d4T  +  ddI,  or  ABC  + 
appropriate  NRTI  (ddI,  d4T,  or  3TC))  in  HIV-infected  subjects  who  had  failed  prior  antiretroviral 
treatment(s) which included one PI. 
The median baseline HIVRNA level was 4.17 log10 c/ml (only 15% of patients had viral load >5 log10 
c/ml) and the median baseline CD4 cell count was 273 cells/mm3 (only 30% had a CD4 cell count < 
200/mm3). 25% were classified as AIDS.  
Results  on  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  TAD  (Time-Averaged-Difference)  estimate  (ATV-
LPV/RTV) for the change from baseline in HIV RNA level through Week 24 (0.30 log10 c/ml (97.5% 
CI: 0.09, 0.51) was not in accordance with the predefined non inferiority margin (an upper confidence 
limit boundary on the difference (ATV - LPV/RTV) of 0.5 log10 c/mL. Moreover, the positive TAD 
17/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
estimate and the lower limit of the 97.5% CI was greater than zero demonstrating the superiority of the 
LPV/RTV regimen versus ATV.  
• 
Study AI424045  
This open label study was designed during 2000 and aimed at comparing atazanavir (boosted with low 
dose of ritonavir or in combination with saquinavir) with lopinavir/ritonavir. 
Antiretroviral  experienced  patients  (>16  years)  with  plasma  HIV RNA  viral  load  ≥1,000  c/ml  and  a 
CD4  cell  count  ≥  50  cells/mm3  were  enrolled  in  the  study.  Patients  were  enrolled  who  had  had  a 
virological failure on two or more HAART regimens that included at least one drug from all approved 
classes  (PI,  NNRTI,  NRTI).  They  also  had  to  have  had  a  prior  virological  response  to  at  least  one 
HAART regimen, defined as a 1.0 log10 decline or a decline in viral load to < 400 c/ml.  
Subjects co-infected with HBV or HCV were not excluded.  
In response to questions raised by the CPMP, the applicant first submitted the preliminary 16 weeks 
data and later the interim 24 weeks data . In addition, a synopsis of the 48 weeks data was submitted.  
A final report on the 48 week data, confirming the results was submitted later, following authorisation 
of atazanavir. 
Primary Objective: 
• 
To compare the magnitude of reduction of plasma HIV RNA from baseline, expressed in log10, 
(as assessed by the TAD) through 24 and 48 weeks. 
Secondary Objectives: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To describe  and correlate the proportions of  subjects who have  a  ≥0.5 log10 decrease  in  HIV 
RNA  from  baseline  or  HIV  RNA  <  50  c/ml  (or  <  400  c/ml)  at  Week  48  with  their  baseline 
phenotypic sensitivity to their randomised PI 
To assess the proportion of subjects with HIV RNA levels less than the limit of quantification 
([LOQ] equals 400 c/mL and LOQ equals 50 c/ml) through Week 48. 
To assess the magnitude of changes in CD4 cell counts through Week 48. 
To assess the change in HIV RNA from baseline through Week 2 
To  assess  the  magnitude  of  changes  in  total  cholesterol,  high-density  lipoprotein  (HDL) 
cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, glucose, and triglycerides through Week 
48. 
To assess the safety and tolerability of atazanavir 
To assess the effect on PR and QTc intervals at baseline and steady state. 
Sample size  
The  planned  sample  size  of  330  randomised  subjects  (110  per  regimen)  provided  99%  power  to 
demonstrate that the TAD in reduction in log10 HIV RNA levels from baseline through Week 24  was 
similar between two regimens (each ATV regimen compared to LPV/RTV regimen) assuming: 
• 
• 
• 
Two-sided  97.5%  confidence  interval,  0.05  significance  level  adjusted  for  two  pairwise 
comparisons 
Upper confidence limit boundary on the difference (ATV - LPV/RTV) of 0.5 log10 c/ml 
Standard deviation in the HIV RNA change of 0.8 log10 c/m 
18/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  planned  sample  size  of  110  randomised  subjects  per  regimen  provided  32%  power  for  the 
pairwise  comparisons  (each  ATV  regimen  to  the  LPV/RTV  regimen)  of  the  secondary  objective 
showing that the proportion of subjects with HIV RNA < 400 c/ml at Week 48 was similar assuming: 
• 
• 
• 
A two-sided 95% confidence interval 
50% of subjects have Week 48 HIV RNA < 400 c/ml 
Lower confidence limit for non-inferiority of -10%. 
Results 
• 
Patient Disposition 
Overall, 8% discontinued prior to week 24, the reasons were balanced between the treatment arms.  
When  considering    the  48  weeks  data,  it  appears  that  overall  19%  of  patients  discontinued  prior  to 
week 48. It is worth noting that more discontinuations occurred in the ATV/RTV treatment arm (22 % 
versus 11% in the LPV/RTV arm). This is mainly due to treatment failure or lack of efficacy: only 6 
patients  in  the  LPV/RTV  arm  discontinued  because  of  treatment  failure/lack  of  efficacy  compared 
with 17 (14%) and 11 (10%) in the two ATV arms. 
• 
Baseline Characteristics 
The median number of weeks on prior PI was 131 (0.1-469.7), 265.6 (0.1-782.4) on NRTI and 77.09 
(0.1-304.0) on NNRTI.  
The population enrolled had a median viral load inferior to 5 log10 copies/ml (only 25% of patients had 
viral  load  >5  log10  c/ml)  and  a  median  CD4  cell  count  of  approximately  300/mm3  (only  30%  had  a 
CD4 cell count < 200/mm3). Of these patients 30% were classified as AIDS. In view of the duration 
on prior PI and the phenotypic sensitivity of baseline isolates, it appears that the population enrolled 
mainly consisted of patients with limited PI experience. 
Baseline  isolates  showed  a  limited  decrease  in  phenotypic  sensitivity.  Less  than  a  2.5x  IC50- 
difference vs the control strain was observed in 83% of isolates for amprenavir and saquinavir, 74% 
for  atazanavir,  75%  for  lopinavir,  56%  for  nelfinavir  (with  23%  harbouring  >10x  IC50  of  control 
strain) and 65% for ritonavir (with 21% harbouring >10x IC50 of control strain).  
19/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GENOTYPIC MUTATIONS AT BASELINE – RANDOMIZED SUBJECTS 
NUMBER OF SUBJECTS (%) 
TREATMENT REGIMEN 
ATV 300/RTV  ATV 400/SQV 
N = 120 
N = 115 
LPV/RTV 
N = 123 
Total 
N = 358 
18 (15) 
28 (23) 
23 (19) 
12 (10) 
10 (  8) 
  8 (  7) 
  7 (  6) 
  5 (  4) 
  5 (  4) 
  2 (  2) 
  2 (  2) 
18 (15) 
23 (19) 
  9 (  8) 
23 (19) 
18 (15) 
14 (12) 
11 (  9) 
  4 (  3) 
11 (10) 
35 (30) 
19 (17) 
12 (10) 
13 (11) 
12 (10) 
  5 (  4) 
  5 (  4) 
  2 (  2) 
  1 (<1) 
  0 
22 (19) 
20 (17) 
  7 (  6) 
14 (12) 
26 (23) 
16 (14) 
  9 (  8) 
  1 (<1) 
13 (11) 
27 (22) 
27 (22) 
11 (  9) 
15 (12) 
  8 (  7) 
  6 (  5) 
12 (10) 
  3 (  2) 
  1 (<1) 
  0 
17 (14) 
15 (12) 
18 (15) 
20 (16) 
16 (13) 
21 (17) 
12 (10) 
  4 (  3) 
42 (22) 
90 (25) 
69 (19) 
35 (10) 
38 (11) 
28 ( 8) 
18 (  5) 
22 (  6) 
10 (  3) 
  4 (  1) 
  2 (<1) 
57 (16) 
58 (16) 
34 (  9) 
57 (16) 
60 (17) 
51 (14) 
32 (  9) 
  9 (  3) 
PI Mutations 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
NRTI Mutations 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
Efficacy Results 
Primary endpoint:  
Virologic Suppression Through Week 16, 24 and 48- Randomized Subjects 
HIV RNA Level Change From Baseline (log10 c/ml) 
Time-Averaged Difference (TAD) Estimate (97.5% CI) 
ATV 300/RTV - LPV/RTV 
ATV 400/SQV - LPV/RTV 
0.15 (-0.06, 0.37) 
0.11 (-0.11, 0.32) 
0.16 (-0.06, 0.38) 
Through Week 16 – Subjects Randomized 
Overall 
Last observation carried forward 
Overall adjusted by region 
Through Week 24 – Subjects Randomized 
0.14 (-0.09, 0.37) 
Overall 
0.10 (-0.13, 0.33) 
Last observation carried forward 
Overall adjusted by region 
0.15 (-0.08, 0.38) 
Through Week 48 – Subjects Randomized (synopsis) 
Overall 
0.13 (-0.12, 0.39) 
Last observation carried forward 
0.11 (-0.15, 0.36) 
Overall adjusted by region 
0.14 (-0.12, 0.39) 
0.29 (0.06, 0.52) 
0.31 (0.08, 0.54) 
0.29 (0.06, 0.52) 
0.31 (0.07, 0.55) 
0.34 (0.10, 0.58) 
0.31 (0.07, 0.55) 
0.33 (0.07, 0.60) 
0.38 (0.11, 0.64) 
0.34 (0.07, 0.61) 
At  week  16,  results  for  the  comparison  ATV/RTV  versus  LPV/RTV  were  in  accordance  with  the 
predefined  non-inferiority  margin  (an  upper  confidence  limit  boundary  on  the  difference  (ATV  - 
LPV/RTV)  of  0.5  log10  c/ml).  According  to  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  non-inferiority  between 
ATV/RTV and LPV/RTV was also demonstrated in the week 24 and week 48 analyses.  
However, non-inferiority was not demonstrated between atazanavir/saquinavir and lopinavir/ritonavir 
at any timepoint.  
20/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints 
Virologic suppression through week 16, 24 and 48 stratified by PI sensitivity- randomized subjects: 
HIV RNA Level Change From Baseline (log10 c/ml) 
Time-Averaged Difference (TAD) Estimate (95% CI) 
ATV 300/RTV - LPV/RTV 
ATV 400/SQV - LPV/RTV 
Through Week 16 – Subjects Randomized 
Overall stratified by PI sensitivity 
PI Sensitive 
PI resistant 
Through Week 24 – Subjects Randomized 
Overall stratified by PI sensitivity 
PI Sensitive 
PI resistant 
Through Week 48 – Subjects Randomized 
Overall  stratified  by  PI  sensitivity 
(N= 355) 
PI Sensitive (N= 260) 
PI resistant (N= 95) 
0.15 (-0.02, 0.33) 
0.03 (-0.17, 0.22) 
0.50 (0.11, 0.88) 
0.14 (-0.84, 0.32) 
0.02 (-0.18, 0.23) 
0.48 (0.08, 0.87) 
0.14 (-0.07, 0.34) 
0.03 (-0.21, 0.26) 
0.45 (0.03, 0.86) 
0.28 (0.09, 0.48) 
0.25 (0.03, 0.48) 
0.36 (-0.04, 0.76) 
0.30 (0.10, 0.51) 
0.27 (0.03, 0.51) 
0.38 (-0.03, 0.78) 
0.34 (0.12, 0.56) 
0.30 (0.04, 0.56) 
0.46 (0.04, 0.87) 
Virologic  suppression  through  week  16,  24  and  48  stratified  by  number  of  baseline  PI  Mutations*- 
randomized subjects 
HIV RNA Level Change From Baseline (log10 c/ml) 
Time-Averaged Difference (TAD) Estimate (95% CI) 
ATV 300/RTV - LPV/RTV 
ATV 400/SQV - LPV/RTV 
0.19 (0.01, 0.37) 
0.06 (-0.15, 0.27) 
0.42 (0.10, 0.74) 
Through Week 16 – Subjects Randomized 
Overall stratified by Baseline PI Mutations 
Less than Four 
Four or More 
Through Week 24 – Subjects Randomized 
Overall stratified by Baseline PI Mutations 
Less than Four 
Four or More 
Through Week 48 – Subjects Randomized 
Overall stratified by Baseline PI Mutations 
Less than Four 
Four or More 
*PI mutations/site: 10-20-24-32-33-36-46-48-50-54-63-71-73-82-84-90 
0.18 (-0.01, 0.36) 
0.03 (-0.18, 0.24) 
0.46 (0.12, 0.80) 
0.17 (-0.04, 0.38) 
0.03 (-0.23, 0.28) 
0.44 (0.07, 0.81) 
0.32 (0.13, 0.51) 
0.19 (-0.04, 0.42) 
0.56 (0.23, 0.88) 
0.33 (0.13, 0.52) 
0.22 (-0.01, 0.46) 
0.53 (0.18, 0.87) 
0.37 (0.15, 0.58) 
0.21 (-0.07, 0.48) 
0.66 (0.31, 1.02) 
The results significantly favoured the lopinavir/ritonavir arm when considering the subset of patients 
with 4 or more PI mutations among the following: 10, 20, 24, 32, 33, 36, 46, 48, 50, 54, 63, 71, 73, 82, 
84 and 90.  
Proportions in Response at Week 48 (LOQ Equals 400 c/ml) - Randomized Subjects 
Responder/Evaluable (%) 
Treatment Regimen 
Difference Estimate (95% CI) 
ATV 300/RTV ATV 400/SQV  LPV/RTV 
Analysis  N = 120 
N = 115  
N = 123 
ATV 
PV/RTV 
300/RTV 
VHLS-R 
77/120 (64) 
60/115 (52) 
84/123 (68) -4.1 (-16.0, 7.8) 
-  L 
400/SQV 
ATV 
LPV/RTV 
-16.1  (-28.5, -3.7) 
-
VR-OC 
66/93 (71) 
43/81 (53) 
69/105 (66) 5.3 (-7.7, 18.3) 
-12.6 (-26.8, 1.6) 
TRWPF 
64/120 (53) 
42/115 (37) 
67/123 (54) -1.1  (-13.7, 11.4) 
-17.9  (-30.6, -5.3) 
21/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportions in Response at Week 48 (LOQ Equals 50 c/ml) - Randomized Subjects 
VHLS-R 
76/120 (63) 
60/115 (52) 
84/123 (68) -5.0 (-16.9, 7.0) 
-16.1  (-28.5, -3.7) 
VR-OC 
48/93 (52) 
31/81 (38)            57/105 (54) -2.7 (-16.6, 11.3) 
-16.0 (-30.5, -1.5) 
TRWPF 
43/120 (36) 
28/115 (24) 
52/123 (42) -6.4  (-18.7, 5.8) 
-17.9  (-29.9, -5.9) 
The results of the HIV RNA < 50 c/ml TRWPF (ITT) and VR-OC (AT) and HIV RNA < 400 c/ml 
VR-OC  (AT)  analyses  show  little  change  for  either  ATV/RTV  or  LPV/RTV  between  Week  24  and 
Week  48.  The  Week  48  mean  change  from  baseline  HIV  RNA  is  similar,  ATV/RTV  (-1.93)  and 
LPV/RTV  (-1.87).  At  48  weeks,  based  on  TRWPF  definition  (LOQ=400c/ml),  the  hazard  ratio  and 
95% CI for  ATV 300/RTV:LPV/RTV  was 1.09 (0.76, 1.57), indicating the time to treatment failure 
for  ATV300/RTV  was  comparable  to  that  for  LPV/RTV. 
  Based  on  TRWPF  definition 
(LOQ=50c/ml)  through  Week  48,  the  hazard  ratio  and  95%  CI  for  ATV  300/RTV:LPV/RTV  was 
1.24  (0.91,  1.70)  favoring  LPV/RTV    CD4  cell  increases  were  comparable  with  both  regimens 
demonstrating further increases between 24 and 48 weeks. 
Among the PI mutations selected for the subgroup analysis (i.e. as above) some are considered to be 
more  critical  for  the  emergence  of  resistance  (i.e.  mutations  at  positions  10,  46,  54,  82,  84  and  90). 
Therefore,  the  applicant  was  requested  to  perform  further  sub-analyses  with  these  more  critical  PI-
mutations: 
Virological suppression through week 48 by Selected Baseline PI Mutations at position 10, 46, 54, 82, 84, 
90. 
HIV RNA Level Change From Baseline (log10 c/ml) 
Mean change from baseline (SE 
Time-Averaged  Difference 
Estimate (95% CI) 
(TAD) 
ATV 300/RTV 
ATV /SQV 
LPV/RTV 
Overall stratified by B/L 
PI Mutations* 
Less than Four 
Four or More 
N=84 
-2.01 (0.13) 
N=6 
-0.79 (0.30) 
N=72 
-1.66 (0.15 
N=7 
-0.40 (0.30)
N=88 
1.93 (0.13) 
N=11  
-1.35 (0.43) 
*PI mutations/site : 10-46-54-82-84-90 
ATV300/RTV- 
LPV/RTV 
0.14 (-0.07, 0.35) 
ATV400/SQV- 
LPV/RTV 
0.35 (0.13, 0.58) 
0.06 (-0.17, 0.28) 
0.71 (0.13, 1.30) 
0.33 (0.08, 0.57) 
0.59 (-0.10, 1.28) 
For  patients  with  less  than  four  of  the  protease  gene  mutations  10,  46,  54,  82,  84,  and  90,  the 
proportion with HIV RNA <400 copies/ml (<50 copies/ml) was 59% (41%) for atazanavir + ritonavir 
and  58%(44%)  for  lopinavir  +  ritonavir  at  Week  48.  There  were  too  few  patients  with  4  of  these 
mutations to assess the comparability of the REYATAZ + ritonavir and lopinavir + ritonavir regimens, 
but reduced virologic activity may be anticipated among patients with this resistance profile. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Study AI424043  
This study further confirmed the concerns regarding the adequacy of 400 mg atazanavir once daily.   
As expected from PK/PD considerations, atazanavir 400 mg QD was shown to be inadequate for the 
treatment of antiretroviral-experienced patients even with limited PI experience. That is, 400 mg QD 
would not be expected to produce a sufficient Cmin to overcome reduced susceptibility (in strains with 
increased IC50). 
22/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Study AI424045  
This  open  label  study  was  aimed  at  comparing  atazanavir  (boosted  with  low  dose  ritonavir  or  in 
combination with saquinavir) with LPV/RTV. 
Results  have  been  made  available  for  weeks  16,  24  and  48  (primary  endpoint  =  magnitude  of 
reduction of plasma HIV RNA from baseline, expressed in log10, (as assessed by the TAD) through 
24 and 48 weeks) .  
At week 24, the rate of premature discontinuation was 8%, increasing to 19% at 48 weeks.  
The  population  enrolled  mainly  had  a  median  viral  load  inferior  to  5  log10  copies/ml  (only  25%  of 
patients had viral load >5 log10 c/ml) and a median CD4 cell count of approximately 300/mm3 (only 
30%  had  a  CD4  cell  count  <  200/mm3).  30%  were  classified  as  AIDS.  The  population  mainly 
consisted of patients with limited PI experience (approx. 2 years).  It is worth noting that, as a result of 
the  inclusion  criteria,  only  a  limited  number  of  patients  had  PI  therapy  at  baseline  (only  35%  had 
recent  PI  use  compared  to  62%  with  recent  NNRTI).  Also,  only  a  limited  number  of  patients  had 
viruses with four or more PI mutations at baseline and approximately 40% of patients had viruses with 
<2 NRTI mutations.  
At 24 weeks, results for the ATV/RTV arm were compatible with the predefined hypothesis of non-
inferiority (upper limit of the confidence interval of the TAD between both arms <0.5 log copies/ml) 
with  respect  to  LPV/RTV.  This  finding  is  supported  by  the  48  weeks  data  (primary  analysis). 
However,  the  point  estimate  favours  the  LPV/RTV  arm.  This  was  also  the  case  for  the  secondary 
endpoint of the percentage of patients with undetectable viral load (400 and 50 c/ml thresholds). When 
considering the post-hoc subgroup analysis performed with patients with viral stains harbouring less or 
more than 4 PI mutations results were significantly in favour of LPV/RTV.  
Therefore, based on the virological and clinical data, no benefit is expected in patients with multi-PI 
resistant strains.  
Although atazanavir/ritonavir appears to be of lesser potency than lopinavir/ritonavir, the overall risk 
benefit relationship was considered to be acceptable when taking into account once daily dosing, the 
low  risk  of  dyslipidemia  and  the  better  gastro-intestinal  tolerance  observed  in  comparison  to 
LPV/RTV. 
However, it is clear that atazanavir/ritonavir is not appropriate for salvage therapy. 
Clinical safety 
Although  involving  a  different  schedule  regimen  than  the  currently  recommended  boosted  regimen 
with ritonavir 300/100mg OAD, the safety data derived from the use of atazanavir unboosted (mainly 
from  studies  performed  in  antiretroviral  naïve  patients),  were  taken  into  account  for  the  overall 
assessment of the safety profile of the drug. 
Patient exposure 
In  pharmacological studies,  648  healthy subjects  have been exposed to atazanavir, among  these  398 
(61%) experienced AEs.  
REYATAZ  has  been  evaluated  for  safety  and  tolerability  in  combination  therapy  with  other 
antiretroviral  medicinal  products  in  Phase  II  and  III  trials  in  1,596  adult  patients.  The  majority  of 
patients  (1,046)  received  REYATAZ  400  mg  once  daily  without  ritonavir.  The  median  duration  of 
treatment was 102 weeks in Phase II trials and 31 weeks in the Phase III trials..  
23/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
Phase II-III studies (except study AI424043 and AI424045) 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
On  pooling all data  for the 400  mg dose (715  patients), the  commonest AEs  considered to be  drug-
related have been nausea (30%), headache and rash (both 12%), clinical jaundice and abdominal pain 
(both 10%), vomiting (9%), fatigue (8%), diarrhoea and dizziness (all 8%).  
Discontinuations due to adverse events were reported in 5% of atazanavir treated patients and in 7% of 
patients treated with comparators. In all atazanavir groups, discontinuations increased with the dose of 
atazanavir, and most frequent related AEs were lactic acidosis, hyperbilirubinemia and liver enzyme 
increased. Preclinical and in vitro studies draw the attention also to cardiotoxic profile of the product.  
Deaths  were  reported  in  ≤1%  of  treated  patients  and  were  in  majority  due  to  HIV  disease  or  lactic 
acidosis (in all fatal lactic acidosis cases, atazanavir was in combination with stavudine).  
• 
Cardiotoxicity  
Atazanavir  minimally  increased  rabbit  Purkinje  fibre  action  potential  duration  (13%  at  30µM), 
inhibited calcium currents (IC50 of 10.4µM) and had a minimal effect on sodium current (IC50 >30µM). 
Moreover, atazanavir produced weak inhibition on Ikr current (HERG) (15% at 30µM). 
In clinical pharmacology studies, Atazanavir dose-dependently increased the QT interval (by ~14 ms 
at  400  mg  QD).  Atazanavir  per  se  seems  to  have  comparable  effect  on  the  QT  as  other  protease 
inhibitors. Atazanavir dose-dependently increased the PR interval in healthy volunteers. First-degree 
heart block was very common. No clinical signal was reported even if some palpitation and syncope 
were described in atazanavir group regimens in Phase II/III studies.  
• 
Hyperbilirubinemia  
Dose related hyperbilirubinemia that is reversible after discontinuation or on dose reduction was very 
common in atazanavir treated patients.  
Jaundice and scleral icterus were very commonly reported in clinical trials.   
Atazanavir  inhibits  bilirubin  glucuronidation  by uridine  diphosphate-glucuronosyl  transferase  (UDP-
GT) 1A1 and so produces clinical jaundice in humans. The mechanism appears to be predominantly 
competitive  enzyme 
inhibition  by  atazanavir.  Other  factors  affecting  bilirubin  production 
(haemolysis), transport (albumin), uptake to, transport in and export from hepatocytes were ruled out.   
• 
Hepatic events 
Moderate elevations in AST and/or ALT were more common in atazanavir groups than in nelfinavir 
groups, although rates were comparable with the efavirenz group in study AI424034 and lower than 
seen  in  the  ritonavir  group  in  AI424009.  These  transaminase  elevations  were  associated  with  slight 
elevations  in  alkaline  phosphatase  that  were  similar  in  atazanavir  and  comparator  groups. 
Discontinuations due to transaminase elevations were uncommon, occurring in 7/742 (0.9%) subjects 
who received atazanavir in Phase II and one subject who received atazanavir in AI424034. 
Hyperbilirubinemia  induced  by  atazanavir  does  not  seem  to  be  associated  with  hepatotoxicity, 
particularly  cholestatic,  since  no  correlation  between  Grade  3 - 4  transaminase  elevations  and 
elevations in bilirubin have been observed. 
• 
Lactic acidosis  
Seventeen cases of lactic acidosis syndrome (LAS) and symptomatic hyperlactatemia (SHL) occurred 
in two clinical trials (AI424007 and AI424008). Fifteen cases (2.2%) occurred in the atazanavir arm 
24/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vs. 2 (1.0%) in the NFV arms (p=0,3904). Due to the randomisation schemes, a substantially greater 
number  of  patients  were  randomised  to  the  ATV  versus  NFV  arms,  including  a  high  number  of 
women.  All  these  patients  received  a  d4T-containing  ART  regimen.  The  mean  duration  of  ART 
exposure was 9.3 months (range 3.5 months to 14 months).  
There were no cases of LAS in AI424009, in which patients received d4T (77%)  but the number of 
randomised patients was small. There were also no cases reported at 24-weeks in the ongoing phase III 
study AI424034 in patients receiving ATV/3TC/ZDV. The 48-weeks safety data are very important in 
a setting where the mean time to onset was 9.3 months (around 42 weeks).   
Review of these cases identified female gender and obesity as additional risk factors for LAS. 
Five cases of lactic acidosis had fatal outcome (four with atazanavir and one with comparator NFV). 
These  cases  occurred  in  females  (three  from  South  America,  one  from  Africa,  one  from  Asia),  and 
among these two were pregnant (1/ATV 500 mg; 1/NFV). Three had BMI <25 and two >25. The time 
to onset was about 12 months. Two cases occurred in the 500 mg dose group and two in the 600mg 
group.  
Based on the available literature on NRTI-associated SHL and LAS, NRTI associated SHL appears to 
be common, and treatment with a d4T-containing regimen appears to be the strongest risk factor. In 
the majority of cases, patients are asymptomatic, or only mildly symptomatic. Serious sequelae, such 
as LAS and death due to LAS, appear to be uncommon (<2%). 
Pivotal studies 
• 
Study AI424043  
There was one death reported on the atazanavir regimen (traumatic cardiac arrest), unrelated to study 
therapy. 
Discontinuation  of  study  therapy  due  to  AEs  was  infrequent  on  both  treatment  regimens  (ATV,  2 
subjects; LPV/RTV, 4 subjects).  
Adverse  events,  serious  adverse  events,  and  discontinuations  due  to  adverse  events  were  generally 
comparable  in  the  ATV  and  LPV/RTV  treatment  regimens.  The  incidence  of  AEs  was  slightly  less 
frequent  on  the  ATV  treatment  regimen  (69%)  compared  to  the  LPV/RV  treatment  regimen  (79%). 
AEs that were reported more frequently on the atazanavir treatment regimen included rash (13% vs. 
7%), dizziness (8% vs. 3%), extremity pain (8% vs. 2 %), jaundice (10% vs. 0%) and scleral icterus 
(6%  vs.  0%).  AEs  that  were  reported  more  frequently  on  the  LPV/RTV  treatment  regimen  included 
diarrhoea (32% vs. 10%), somnolence (9% vs. 3%), pruritus (7% vs. 3%) and anorexia (5% vs. <1%). 
Isolated  elevations  in  serum  bilirubin,  primarily  indirect,  were  frequent  on  the  atazanavir  regimen. 
However, consistent with previous findings, these changes were benign, and were not associated with 
elevations  in  hepatic  transaminases.  Dose  reductions  and  discontinuation  of  therapy  due  to  these 
changes were infrequent (2% and 1%, respectively). 
At  Week  24,  negative  estimates  for  the  pair  wise  difference  (ATV-LPV/RTV)  in  the  mean  percent 
change  from  baseline  in  lipid  concentrations  demonstrate  a  superiority  of  the  atazanavir  treatment 
regimen versus LPV/RTV for LDL cholesterol (co-primary endpoint).  
ATV 400 
N=144 
LPV/RTV 
N=146 
pairwise difference  
(ATV - LPV/RTV) 
Co-primary endpoint 
Fasting  LDL  cholesterol 
concentration 
N 
Observed values 
123 
-6% (-8.3% -3.1%)  +5% (2.3% ; 8.1%) 
106 
-10.3%(-17.8%, -2.5%) * 
25/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint 
Total Cholesterol 
N 
Observed values 
HDL Cholesterol 
N 
Observed values 
Fasting triglycerides 
N 
Observed values 
127 
-2% 
127 
12% 
124 
-2% 
108 
17% 
108 
18% 
107 
55% 
Difference estimates are stratified by NRTI backbone 
Confidence level is 97.5% for fasting LDL cholesterol and 95% for other lipids 
** p-value <0.0001 * p-value <0.05 
-16.1% (-20.5%, -11.5%) ** 
-5.8% (-12.1%, 0.9%) 
-35.2% (-43.6%, -25.6%) ** 
Minimal mean QTc interval changes from baseline were observed in both treatment groups.  
• 
Study AI424045 
frequent 
Most 
AEs 
Grade 1-4 
Treatment regimen 
ATV300/RTV 
N=119 
24 weeks  48 weeks 
0 
5 (4) 
0 
6 (5) 
ATV400/SQV 
N=110 
24 weeks 
0 
6 (5) 
48 weeks 
1 (<1) 
8 (7) 
LPV/RTV 
N=118 
24 weeks 
0 
4 (3) 
48 weeks 
1 (<1) 
5 (4) 
10 (8) 
89 (75) 
Adverse 
frequent 
Deaths N (%) 
AEs  leading  to 
discontinuation 
N (%) 
Serious  AEs  N 
(%) 
Most 
AEs Grade 1-4 
Any 
event  
 N (%) 
Infection 
Diarrhea 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Abdominal pain 
Jaundice 
Scleral icterus 
Headache 
Peripheral 
neurologic 
symptom 
Rash 
Grade  3-4  Lab 
abnormalities 
Neutrophil 
reduction 
Platelet reduction  2/119 (2) 
4/119 (3) 
ALT elevation 
4/119 (3) 
AST elevation 
54/119 
Total 
(45) 
elevation 
31 (26) 
20 (17) 
16 (13) 
6 (5) 
7 (6) 
18 (15) 
12 (10) 
18 (15) 
10 (8) 
8/119 (7) 
bilirubin 
9 (8) 
12 (10) 
12 (10) 
14 (12) 
9 (7) 
11 (9) 
97 (82) 
89 (81) 
93 (85) 
96 (81) 
103 (87) 
39 (33) 
25 (21) 
19 (16) 
8 (7) 
10 (8) 
19 (16) 
13 (11) 
21 (18) 
13 (11) 
25 (23) 
27 (25) 
22 (20) 
11 (10) 
23 (21) 
5 (5) 
4 (4) 
21 (19) 
10 (9) 
36 (33) 
29 (26) 
24 (22) 
14 (13) 
26 (24) 
6 (5) 
3 (3) 
24 (22) 
12 (11) 
39 (33) 
52 (44) 
13 (11) 
4 (3) 
9 (8) 
0 
0 
15 (13) 
16 (14) 
45 (38) 
54 (46) 
15 (13) 
5 (4) 
12 (10) 
0 
0 
18 (15) 
22 (19) 
11 (9) 
9 (8) 
13 (12) 
16 (14) 
17 (14) 
8/119 (7) 
6/108 (6) 
8/108 (7) 
6/118 (5) 
10/118 (8) 
2/119 (2) 
4/119 (4) 
4/119 (3) 
58/119 (49) 
4/108 (4) 
4/108 (4) 
2/108 (2) 
20/108 (19) 
4/108 (4) 
4/108 (4) 
2/108 (2) 
22/108 (20) 
2/118 (2) 
3/118 (3) 
1/118 (<1) 
1/118 (<1) 
3/118 (3) 
4/118 (3) 
4/118 (3) 
1/118 (<1) 
Throughout  the  48  weeks,  the  rates  for  the  most  frequent  adverse  events  were  comparable  in  all 
treatment groups with those seen at 24 weeks, with no new safety issues emerging during longer-term 
exposure to atazanavir. 
26/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diarrhoea, infection, rash and peripheral neurological symptoms were more common in the LPV/RTV 
treatment  group.  Headache,  nausea,  vomiting  and  abdominal  pain  were  more  common  in  the 
ATV400/SQV treatment group. 
• 
Hyperbilirubinemia 
Elevations  in  unconjugated  bilirubin,  jaundice  and  icterus  were  described  almost  exclusively  in 
atazanavir  containing  regimens.  These  events  were  not  associated  with  increases  in  hepatic 
transaminases or particular neurological complications. Mean total bilirubin was 1.6 mg/dL and 0.83 
mg/dL higher at week 24 than at baseline for respectively ATV/RTV and ATV/SQV treated subjects, 
compared to 0.08 mg/dL for LPV/RTV. Elevations in total bilirubin (all grades) were reported in 90% 
of ATV/RTV patients vs. 75% (ATV/SQV) and 8% (LPV/RTV). Grade 4 elevations in bilirubin were 
reported in 9% of patients on ATV300/RTV group, and in 2% of patients on ATV400/SQV group. At 
24  weeks,  no  patients  discontinued  the  treatment  due  to  these  events,  and  dose  reductions  due  to 
hyperbilirubinemia were only observed on the ATV 300/RTV regimen (in 8% of subjects). 
The following table shows a comparison of safety data between unboosted ATV (derived from study 
AI424043) and ATV/RTV: 
AI424043 
AI424045 
ATV400 
(n=144) 
LPV/RTV 
(n=146) 
ATV300/RTV 
(n=119) 
ATV400/SQV 
(n=110) 
LPV/RTV 
(n=118) 
14 (10%) 
9 (6%) 
0 
0 
18 (15%) 
19 (16%) 
12 (10%) 
13 (11%) 
5 (5%) 
6 (5%) 
4 (4%) 
3 (3%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
20/22 (91%) 
0 
24/27 (89%) 
6/8 (75%) 
0 
108 (76%) 
16 (11%) 
107 (90%) 
81 (75%) 
10 (8%) 
Jaundice 
24 weeks 
48 weeks 
Icterus 
24 weeks 
48 weeks 
Grade 2-4 total bilirubin  
in 
subjects 
jaundice/scleral icterus 
24 weeks 
with 
Hyperbilirubinemia  
(All grades) 
24 weeks 
Hyperbilirubinemia  
 (Grades 3-4) 
24 weeks 
48 weeks 
Dose Reductions 
16 weeks 
24 weeks 
48 weeks 
Discontinuations 
24 
48 weeks 
31 (22%) 
0 
54 (45%) 
58 (49%) 
20 (19%) 
22 (20%) 
1 (<1%) 
1 (<1%) 
3 (2%) 
weeks 
2 (1%) 
0 
0 
3 (3%) 
9 (8%) 
not provided 
0 
0 
not provided 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
not 
provided 
0 
0 
The use of ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer leads to a higher incidence (ATV300/RTV versus 
ATV 400 mg alone) of hyperbilirubinemia (90% versus 76%), jaundice (15% versus 10%) and icterus 
10% versus 6%).  
27/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  the  fact  that  no  patient  discontinued  because  of  hyperbilirubinemia,  jaundice  or  icterus  is 
reassuring in term of acceptability of these adverse events. 
• 
Lipids  
Atazanavir containing regimens demonstrated a better lipid profile compared to LPV/RTV treatment 
regimen with regard to total cholesterol, fasting LDL cholesterol and fasting triglycerides. The greater 
decline  in  mean  fasting  LDL  cholesterol  levels  observed  on  the  atazanavir-containing  regimens 
compared  with  the  LPV/RTV-containing  regimens  was  not  statistically  significant.  HDL  cholesterol 
levels showed decreases with ATV/RTV at 24 and 48 weeks, whereas levels were stable in the other 
groups.  
The  use  of  lipid  reducing  agents  was  less  common  on  the  ATV-containing  regimens,  particularly 
ATV300/RTV (8%), than in the LPV/RTV group (19%). 
No  differences  in  lipid  parameters  were  noted  in  the  ATV/RTV  group  between  24  weeks  and  48 
weeks. 
Based  on the comparison  between studies AI424043 and  AI424045, the addition  of ritonavir  to  300 
mg  atazanavir  daily  did  not  seem  to  be  associated  with  a  less  favourable  lipid  profile  compared  to 
ATV alone.   
AI424045 
24 weeks 
AI424043 
24 weeks 
ATV40
0 
-2% 
17% 
LPV/RTV  ATV/R
TV 
-8% 
ATV/
SQV 
-9% 
LPV/
RTV 
3% 
AI424045 
48 weeks 
ATV/
RTV 
-8% 
ATV/
SQV 
-4% 
LPV/
RTV 
6% 
Total  
Cholesterol 
LDL Cholesterol 
HDL Cholsterol 
Triglycerides 
-6% 
12% 
-2% 
5% 
18% 
55% 
-10% 
-7% 
-2% 
-4% 
-11% 
-1% 
0% 
-14%  31% 
-10% 
-7% 
-4% 
1% 
2% 
-3% 
4% 
-14%  30% 
Of  note,  the  rate  of  lipodystrophy  was  similar  between  treatment  groups  at  48  weeks  (study 
AI424045). 
• 
Cardiotoxicity 
Minimal effects on the QT and PR (interval prolongations) were described, and these are comparable 
between  all  treatment  groups.  No  signal  regarding  cardiovascular  events  is  observed  in  atazanavir-
treatment groups. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Since the original MAA submission, long term data from study antiretroviral naïve patients and results 
from studies  AI424043  and AI424045 in antiretroviral experienced  patients  have been provided that 
describe further the safety profile of atazanavir.  
• 
Hepatotoxicity: 
The  concerns  that  elevations  in  AST  and/or  ALT  were  more  common  in  atazanavir  groups  than  in 
nelfinavir  groups,  and  that  there  were  inadequate  data  to  fully  assess  the  potential  for  atazanavir  to 
trigger  serious  hepatic  events  were  raised  in  the  D70  assessment  report.  The  complementary  data 
28/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
derived  from  the  additional  studies  submitted  in  response  to  the  D120  CPMP  LoQ  have  been 
reassuring  with  regard  to  the  hepatotoxicity  of  the  drug.  In  common  with  other  antiretrovirals, 
atazanavir is associated with hepatic events but does not appear to be associated with a higher risk of 
hepatotoxicity in comparison with the other studied PIs (nelfinavir and lopinavir/ritonavir).  
As  previously  described  for  other  antiretrovirals,  co-infection  with  HCV  and  /or  HBV,  and  prior 
transaminase elevations, are risk factors for severe hepatotoxicity following initiation of atazanavir.  
A warning regarding the potential increased risk for hepatic events in patients with pre-existing liver 
dysfunction should be included in the SmPC, in line with the wording proposed by the CPMP for the 
other antiretrovirals. This population should be closely monitored. 
• 
Hyperbilirubinemia  
Hyperbilirubinemia was observed frequently in atazanavir treated patients.  
The  applicant  was  asked  to  discuss  the  potential  impact  of  hyperbilirubinemia  in  the  therapeutic 
management  of  patients  (dose  reduction  and  treatment  discontinuation  being  risk  factors  for 
emergence of resistance), and the possible long-term consequences.  
In  response  to  the  day  180  LOQ,  data  from  the  clinical  studies  as  well  as  from  the  early  access 
program  (EAP)  were  submitted.  Based  upon  the  clinical  trial  experience  for  1597  atazanavir-treated 
subjects and more than 3000 patients receiving atazanavir through the EAP, bilirubin elevation and its 
clinical  manifestations  (i.e.,  jaundice  and  scleral  icterus)  would  be  expected  to  result  in  treatment 
discontinuation very infrequently. Furthermore, a 5% discontinuation rate, if it is indeed observed in 
“real life”, is well within observed discontinuation rates for other ARV drugs due to AEs.  
Since  dose  reduction  is  not  recommended,  no  impact  on  the  efficacy  of  an  atazanavir-containing 
regimen is expected.  
The  long-term  consequences  of  mild  and  modest  elevations  in  unconjugated  bilirubin  are  generally 
believed  to  be  inconsequential.  In  response  to  the  CPMP’s  request,  the  applicant  presented  an 
examination of the clinical trial database for atazanavir for potential side effects of increased bilirubin 
(e.g.,  gallstones  and  gall  bladder  disease  and  neurotoxicity).  Among  1597  subjects  who  received 
atazanavir, some for up to 3.5 years (reflecting greater than 2000 patient years), only 7 cases of biliary 
disease were identified in the clinical trial database. This rate is within the range expected for an HIV 
control  population.  No  cases  of  neurotoxicity  potentially  attributable  to  bilirubin  elevations  were 
observed. Therefore, based upon the biology of unconjugated bilirubin elevations, the vast experience 
with  Gilbert.s  syndrome,  and  the  entire  clinical  trial  database,  chronic  hyperbilirubinemia  does  not 
appear to represent a safety concern for the use of atazanavir.  
• 
Lactic acidosis: 
The safety data are reassuring with regard to the potential (rather unexpected for a PI) of atazanavir to 
induce  lactic  acidosis.  An  association  with  D4T  and/or  3TC  and/or  ZDV  has  been  described  in  all 
cases and so a relationship with atazanavir has not been established.  
• 
Cardiotoxicity/EEC changes 
A  signal  regarding  electrophysiological  change  was  derived  from  the  preclinical  and  clinical 
development  programmes.  Some  clarifications  were  requested  regarding  electrophysiological  data 
from in-vitro, pre-clinical and clinical studies in order to assess the cardiotoxicity of atazanavir. 
Atazanavir is associated with plasma concentration dependent prolongation of PR interval so that first-
degree  heart  block  is  common.  Although  the  potential  of  atazanavir  to  prolong  the  QT  interval  is 
confirmed,  the  dose  and  concentration  relations  regarding  this  effect  need  to  be  further  evaluated, 
particularly  when  atazanavir  is  co-administered  with  ritonavir.  The  effect  was  more  apparent  above 
the recommended dose. These ECG changes were asymptomatic. However associated clinical events 
29/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
such as proxies (palpitations, syncopes) should be monitored and a warning in association with other 
drugs  which  have  the  potential  to  increase  the  QT  interval  and/or  in  patients  with  pre-existing  risk 
factors (bradycardia, electrolytes disturbances) has been  included in the SmPC. 
Responses of the applicant on the electrophysiological studies were not totally satisfactory. Therefore 
as a specific  obligation following Marketing Authorisation, further assessment  of the  cardiotoxicity 
potential of  atazanavir, particularly in combination with ritonavir, is ongoing.  
4. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, safety pharmacology studies provided adequate evidence that there were no atazanavir-related 
adverse effects on, cardiovascular respiratory, or central nervous system function in rats or dogs.  
The  drug  was  shown  to  be  clastogenic  in  vitro  (increase  in  chromosome  aberrations  confirmed  in  a 
second in-vitro primary human lymphocyte assay) but not in vivo.  
A  particular  concern  was  raised  regarding  the  carcinogenicity  studies  presented,  which  suggest  that 
atazanavir induced hepatocellular adenoma in female mice at the highest dose tested. This observation 
is  probably  due  to  an  epigenetic  mechanism  with  hepatocyte  hyperproliferation  after  cell  necrosis, 
which is a well-known mechanism, currently observed in rodents. Furthermore, it is well recognised 
by  the  scientific  community  that  mice  present  an  increased  sensitivity  to  hepatocellular  tumours.  In 
this  mice  study,  liver  carcinomas  were  not  present,  and  in  rats,  all  the  results  were  negative.  All 
together, these results suggest that atazanavir will not increase the carcinogenic risk in humans. 
Atazanavir did not alter the fertility parameters and was not teratogenic or embryotoxicity in rodents.  
Efficacy 
The major shortcoming of the pharmacokinetic programme is that it is almost exclusively based on the 
use of atazanavir unboosted at 400 mg QD dose, whereas it is recommended to use only when boosted 
with ritonavir at 300/100 mg QD. Co administration of ATV 300 mg and RTV 100 mg both QD has 
been selected since it results in a substantial increase in the mean Cmin value of ATV relative to ATV 
400 mg alone. 
Therefore, the applicant has committed have to further substantiate the pharmacokinetics of atazanavir 
boosted with ritonavir as well as the interaction profile of this combination as part of the post-approval 
commitments.  
There is an unexpected drug interaction between tenofovir and atazanavir while lamivudine, stavudine 
or zidovudine do not appear to interact with atazanavir. Co-administration of atazanavir and tenofovir 
leads to a decrease in atazanavir mean AUC and Cmax values by approximately 20-25% and a decrease 
in the mean Cmin value by approximately 40% in comparison to atazanavir 400 mg QD alone. 
The  results  of  study  AI424045,  in  which  ATV  300/RTV  100  mg  QD  was  always  administered  in 
combination  with  tenofovir  indicate  that  administration  of  ATV  with  RTV  may  compensate  for  the 
effects  of  tenofovir.  Therefore,  tenofovir  may  be  combined  with  atazanavir  when  it  is  boosted  with 
ritonavir  (300/100  mg  QD).  However,  the  applicant  committed  to  investigate  this  drug-drug 
interaction.  
30/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bioequivalence has been demonstrated between the oral powder and the capsule. Considering the lack 
of data currently available in paediatric patients, this oral powder will be proposed for adults not able 
to swallow the capsules. 
In  response  to  the  Day  180  LOQ,  the  applicant  provided  further  virological  data  to  expand  on  the 
initial  observations  and  better  characterised  the  pathway  to  resistance  to  atazanavir.  Within  the  74 
isolates  from  experienced  patients  who  developed  resistance  to  atazanavir  on  therapy  that  included 
either ATV, ATV/r and ATV/SQV 9 isolates from patients treated with either ATV and ATV/r display 
the I50L phenotype previously described in naïve patients. The remaining isolates showed no evidence 
of the I50L substitution and no obvious pattern of changes beyond accumulation of the primary and 
secondary resistance substitutions described previously to be involved in PI resistance. These isolates 
developed higher levels of resistance to the other PIs. All isolates from experienced patients who were 
treated with the PI combination of ATV/SQV become resistant to both ATV and SQV. 
Atazanavir boosted with ritonavir (300/100 mg QD) provided  comparable virological suppression to 
LPV/RTV based  on the primary endpoint.  At 24 weeks results were compatible  with  the  predefined 
hypothesis  of  non-inferiority  (upper  limit  of  the  confidence  interval  of  the  TAD  between  both  arms 
<0.5 log copies/ml). This finding was supported  by the  48  weeks data. ATV/RTV was numerically 
inferior to LPV/RTV for several secondary endpoints. The results of the post-hoc subgroup analysis of 
patients with viral stains harbouring less or more than 4 PI mutations were significantly in favour to 
LPV/RTV in patients with viral strain of more than 4PI mutations. Therefore, based on the virological 
and clinical data, no benefit is expected in patients with multi-PI resistant strains.  
It is clear that atazanavir/ritonavir is not appropriate for salvage therapy.  
Overall, atazanavir/ritonavir appears to be of lesser potency than lopinavir/ritonavir. However, the risk 
benefit relationship for the combination is considered acceptable in the light of the once daily dosing 
regimen,  the  low  risk  of  dyslipidemia  and  the  better  gastro-intestinal  tolerance  compared  with 
LPV/RTV. 
Safety 
regard 
raised  with 
Particular  concerns  have  been 
to  cardiotoxicity,  hepatotoxicity  and 
hyperbilirubinemia. Atazanavir is associated with a dose-concentration dependent prolongation of PR 
interval.  Atazanavir  also  increase  the  QTc  interval.  Dose  and  concentration  relationships  should  be 
further  discussed.  Although  these  ECG  changes  were  asymptomatic,  clinical  events  such  as 
palpitations and syncope should be monitored. A warning regarding concomitant administration with 
other  drugs  that  have  the  potential  to  increase  the  PR  interval  and/or  in  patients  with  pre-existing 
conduction problems is included in the SmPC. Further investigations are necessary to better assess the 
cardiotoxic potential of atazanavir. 
In common with other antiretrovirals, atazanavir is associated with hepatic events but does not appear 
to  be  associated  with  a  higher  risk  of  hepatotoxicity  in  comparison  with  other  PIs.  A  warning 
regarding the potential increased risk for hepatic events in patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction 
is included in the SmPC, in line with the wording proposed by the CPMP for the other antiretrovirals. 
This population should be closely monitored. 
long-term 
Hyperbilirubinemia  was  observed  frequently 
consequences  of  mild  and  modest  elevations  in  unconjugated  bilirubin  are  generally  believed  to  be 
inconsequential.  No  cases  of  neurotoxicity  potentially  attributable  to  bilirubin  elevation  were 
observed. Therefore, based upon the biology of unconjugated bilirubin elevations, the vast experience 
with  Gilbert’s  syndrome,  and  the  entire  clinical  trial  database,  chronic  hyperbilirubinemia  does  not 
appear to represent a safety concern for the use of atazanavir. 
treated  patients.  The 
in  atazanavir 
Atazanavir  therapy  was  not  associated  with  undesirable  changes  in  total  cholesterol,  fasting  LDL 
cholesterol and fasting triglycerides. However, an increase in HDL cholesterol was noted in patients 
31/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treated  by  ATV400  mg  unboosted  whereas  a  decrease  was  observed  with  ATV/RTV  300/100  (e.g. 
+12% in study 043 versus -7% in studyAI424045 at week 24).  
A specific study assessing the impact of atazanavir/ritonavir in patients with dyslipidemia at baseline 
has not been performed. The applicant is requested to provide such a study within the frame of post-
approval  commitment.  Also,  the  long-term  clinical  implications  of  these  findings  remain  to  be 
investigated and the applicant has committed to investigate this issue.  
The  applicant  committed  to  monitor  events  regarding  lipids  abnormalities,  hepatic  events, 
lipodystrophy hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, icterus, rash, lactic acidosis and depression closely during 
post-marketing surveillance. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
In  a  written  response  to  the  day  180  LOI  and  during  an  oral  explanation,  the  applicant  addressed 
CPMP’s concerns regarding efficacy in antiretroviral-experienced patients. Furthermore the applicant 
was asked to elaborate on the potential benefit of atazanavir as a low dyslipidemia inducer.  
Atazanavir boosted with ritonavir (300/100 mg QD) provided  comparable virological suppression to 
LPV/RTV  in  moderately  experienced  patients.  However,  based  on  the  virological  and  clinical  data 
(subgroup  analyses  performed  in  study  045  in  patients  with  more  than  4  PI  mutations  significantly 
favoured the lopinavir/ritonavir arm), the drug was not considered suitable to treat patients with multi-
PI resistant strains. This was clearly reflected in the SPC.   
Overall,  atazanavir/ritonavir  might  not  be  as  potent  as  lopinavir/ritonavir.  However,  the  risk  benefit 
relationship was considered acceptable in moderately experienced patients.  
Since the efficacy and safety profile of 300ATV/100RTV is currently limited, the CPMP considered 
that an approval under exceptional circumstances was justified. The final report of the 48 week data 
of  study  045  as  well  as  additional  clinical  studies  in  antiretroviral  experienced  patients  with 
dyslipidemia  at  baseline  were  made  specific  obligations  in  order  to  further  substantiate  the  efficacy 
and safety of the drug in antiretroviral experienced patients. Moreover, the applicant was requested to 
provide  complementary  pharmacokinetic  data  (notably,  interaction  studies)  with  the  recommended 
regimen,  since  the  pharmacokinetic  programme  was  mainly  based  on  the  use  of  atazanavir  without 
ritonavir  at  the  400  mg  QD  regimen.  The  CPMP  encouraged  the  applicant  to  explore  the  use  of 
atazanavir boosted with ritonavir in antiretroviral naïve patients.  
Some  members  of  the  CPMP  took  a  divergent  negative  view  and  felt  that  the  current  lack  of 
comprehensive efficacy and safety data did not allow a recommendation of a positive opinion. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered  by majority 
decision  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Reyataz  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  HIV-1  infected, 
antiretroviral  treatment  experienced  adults,  in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral  medicinal 
products. 
32/32 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
