EMA/83065/2020  
EMEA/H/C/002819 
Rezolsta (darunavir/cobicistat) 
An overview of Rezolsta and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rezolsta and what is it used for? 
Rezolsta is a medicine usedfor treating patients human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus 
that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). It is given in combination with other HIV 
medicines for treating adults and adolescents from 12 years of age (and weighing at least 40 kg). 
Rezolsta contains the active substances darunavir and cobicistat. The medicine is for use only in 
patients who have not received HIV treatment before or in previously treated patients whose disease is 
not expected to be resistant to darunavir and who are healthy enough and have HIV virus levels below 
a certain threshold. 
How is Rezolsta used? 
Rezolsta can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in managing HIV infection. Rezolsta is available as tablets that contain 800 mg of 
darunavir and 150 mg of cobicistat. The recommended dose is one tablet a day, taken with food. For 
more information about using Rezolsta, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Rezolsta work? 
Rezolsta contains two active substances. Darunavir is a protease inhibitor. It blocks an enzyme called 
protease, which the virus needs to make new copies of itself. When the enzyme is blocked, the virus 
does not reproduce normally and its increase and spread slows down. Cobicistat acts as a ‘booster’ to 
enhance the effects of darunavir, by prolonging its activity in the body. 
Rezolsta, taken in combination with other HIV medicines, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and 
keeps it at a low level. Rezolsta does not cure HIV infection, but it can delay or reverse the damage to 
the immune system and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
Darunavir is currently authorised as Prezista and cobicistat as Tybost. 
What benefits of Rezolsta have been shown in studies? 
Because darunavir and cobicistat have both previously been shown to be effective and are authorised 
for the treatment of HIV infection, studies were mainly carried out to show that Rezolsta produced 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
similar effects and levels of darunavir in the blood to the two active substances given separately, and 
to darunavir given with a different booster medicine, ritonavir (an established combination). 
In addition, one main study examined the safety and effectiveness of darunavir and cobicistat given 
with other HIV medicines, in 313 adults with HIV who had not been treated previously or who had 
been treated and whose infection was not expected to be resistant to darunavir. Effectiveness was 
measured by a reduction in viral load (the amount of HIV-1 virus in the blood) to less than 
50 copies/ml. Overall, 258 patients (82%) achieved this response after 24 weeks of treatment, and 
253 patients (81%) at 48 weeks, which was comparable to results with darunavir plus ritonavir. 
Further data indicated that darunavir and cobicistat also led to acceptable reductions in the viral load in 
adolescents between 12 and 17 years of age. 
What are the risks associated with Rezolsta? 
The most common side effects with Rezolsta (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), headache and rash. The most serious side effects were rash, diabetes, 
hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions, vomiting, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction 
with flu-like symptoms and painful rash affecting the skin, mouth, eyes and genitals) and immune 
reconstitution syndrome. With immune reconstitution syndrome, the patient’s immune system starts 
working again and fights existing infections (causing inflammation) and may attack healthy tissue such 
as the liver and thyroid gland. For the full list of all side effects of Rezolsta, see the package leaflet. 
Rezolsta must not be taken by patients who have severely reduced liver function. It must also not be 
used with certain other medicines as they may reduce the effectiveness of treatment or increase side 
effects. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Rezolsta authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Rezolsta’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it can be authorised for use in the EU. Both active substances have already been 
shown to be effective, and combining them into a single tablet was considered to be more convenient 
than taking them separately, reducing the risk of errors. There was no evidence of unexpected side 
effects. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rezolsta? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rezolsta have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rezolsta are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Rezolsta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Rezolsta 
Rezolsta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19/11/2014. 
Further information on Rezolsta can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/rezolsta. This overview was last updated in 
02-2020. 
Rezolsta (darunavir/cobicistat)  
EMA/83065/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
