Summary of Risk Management Plan for REZOLSTA
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  REZOLSTA.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of REZOLSTA, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about REZOLSTA's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
REZOLSTA's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its Package Leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how REZOLSTA should be 
used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  REZOLSTA  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report.
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
REZOLSTA's RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used For
REZOLSTA is authorized in combination with other antiretroviral (ARV) medicinal products 
for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus  type  1  (HIV-1)  infection  in  adults  and 
adolescents  (aged  12  years  and  older,  weighing  at  least  40  kg)  (see  SmPC  for  the  full 
indication).  REZOLSTA  contains  darunavir/cobicistat  (DRV/COBI)  as  the  active  substance 
and is given as an oral tablet (DRV 800 mg, COBI 150 mg).
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  REZOLSTA’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
REZOLSTA’s European Public Assessment Report, including in its plain-language summary, 
available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/rezolsta
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or 
Further Characterize the Risks
Important  risks  of  REZOLSTA,  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about REZOLSTA's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition to these measures, information about  adverse reactions is  collected continuously 
and  regularly  analyzed, including  Periodic  Benefit-Risk  Evaluation  Report/Periodic  Safety 
Update  Report  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of REZOLSTA is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important  risks  of  REZOLSTA  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further  investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  REZOLSTA.  Potential  risks  are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further  evaluation. Missing 
information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently 
missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks None
Important potential risks
None
Missing information
Safety in patients with cardiac conduction disorders
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Missing Information: Safety in patients with cardiac conduction disorders
Risk minimization measures
Routine risk minimization measures:

Legal status: restricted medical prescription
Additional risk minimization measures:

None
II.C.
Post-authorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation 
of REZOLSTA.
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Post-authorization Development Plan
There are no other studies in the post-authorization development plan of REZOLSTA.
