Summary of risk management plan for Rhokiinsa (netarsudil) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Rhokiinsa. The RMP details important risks of 
Rhokiinsa, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Rhokiinsa's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Rhokiinsa's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Rhokiinsa should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Rhokiinsa should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Rhokiinsa's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Rhokiinsa  is  authorised  for  the  reduction  of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  in  adult  patients  with  primary 
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains netarsudil as 
the active substance and it is given via eye drops. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Rhokiinsa’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Rhokiinsa’s  EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/rhokiinsa. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Rhokiinsa together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Rhokiinsa's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•
•
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so as to ensure that the
medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without
prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Rhokiinsa  is  not  yet  available,  it  is  listed  under 
“missing information” below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Rhokiinsa are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded 
as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the 
use  of  Rhokiinsa.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is 
possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
•  None 
•  Damage to the corneal and conjunctival epithelium due to use of 
Missing information 
eye drops containing preservatives 
•  Use in Pregnancy and lactating//breastfeeding women 
•  Long term safety of netarsudil (beyond 12 months) 
•  Use in patients with compromised corneal epithelium 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential Risk: Damage to the corneal and conjunctival epithelium due to use of eye 
drops containing preservatives 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The formulation is packaged as a multi-dose product and 
preserved with benzalkonium chloride (BAK) as the 
preservative of choice. BAK has demonstrated toxic effects in 
laboratory, experimental, and clinical studies. 
Any substance instilled into the eye, whether it is an active 
agent, preservative, or inactive ingredient, has the potential 
for inducing at least some cellular toxicity and ocular surface 
changes in the patient population. With long-term use, eye 
drops containing preservatives may result in corneal or 
conjunctival damage depending on the duration and 
frequency of use. 
 
 
 
  
  
Risk minimisation measures 
Care should therefore be taken to avoid the long-term use of 
preservatives.  
SmPC section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
(guidance with respect to the potential effects of benzalkonium 
chloride) 
Patient Information Leaflet Section 2 What you need to know 
before you use Rhokiinsa (guidance with respect to the 
potential effects of benzalkonium chloride) 
Legal status: 
Restricted medical prescription. 
There are no additional risk minimisation measures planned. 
Missing information: Use in Pregnancy, lactating and breastfeeding women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  SmPC section 4.6 Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
(guidance with respect to the lack of data in 
pregnancy and breastfeeding). 
•  Patient Information Leaflet Section 2 What you need 
to know before you use Rhokiinsa (guidance with 
respect to the lack of data in pregnancy and 
breastfeeding). 
Legal status: 
Restricted medical prescription. 
There are no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Missing information: Long-term safety of netarsudil (beyond 12 months) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions 
for use (guidance with respect to lack of data beyond 
12 months)  
Legal status: 
Restricted medical prescription. 
There are no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities  Post-authorisation safety study: observational cohort study. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Use in patients with compromised corneal epithelium 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC  section  5.1  Pharmacodynamic  properties 
(guidance with respect to lack of data in patients with 
compromised corneal epithelium) 
Legal status: 
Restricted medical prescription. 
There are no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities  Post-authorisation safety study: observational cohort study. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Non-interventional (Observational cohort) study 
Purpose of the study: 
This non-interventional (observational cohort) study aims to collect additional ocular safety of Rhokiinsa in 
adult patients under routine prescribed conditions over a 2-year period. Primary evaluation will focus on 
ocular safety at each time point (approximately 6 monthly intervals), recording the number, percentage 
and severity of each category of event.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
