EMA/697663/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005311 
Riltrava Aerosphere (formoterol / glycopyrronium 
bromide / budesonide) 
An overview of Riltrava  Aerosphere and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Riltrava Aerosphere and what is it used for? 
Riltrava Aerosphere is a medicine used to treat patients with  moderate to severe chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD), a long-term disease in which  the airways and air sacs in the lungs become 
damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing. 
Riltrava Aerosphere is used for maintenance (regular) treatment in adults whose disease is not 
controlled well enough with a combination of inhaled medicines consisting of a long-acting beta-2 
agonist plus either a corticosteroid or a long-acting  muscarinic antagonist.   
Riltrava Aerosphere contains the active substances formoterol, glycopyrronium bromide and 
budesonide. 
This medicine is the  same as Trixeo Aerosphere, which is already authorised in the  EU. The company 
that  makes Trixeo Aerosphere has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Riltrava Aerosphere 
(‘informed consent’). 
How is Riltrava Aerosphere used? 
Riltrava Aerosphere can only be obtained with  a prescription. It is available in a portable inhaler 
device. The recommended dose is two inhalations twice a day (two in the morning and two  in the 
evening). Patients should be shown how  to use the  inhaler correctly by a doctor or other healthcare 
professional. 
For more information about using Riltrava Aerosphere, see the package leaflet or contact  your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
How does Riltrava Aerosphere work? 
Riltrava Aerosphere contains three active substances, which  work in different ways to  widen the 
airways and improve breathing in COPD. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Formoterol is a long-acting  beta-2 agonist. It attaches to receptors (targets) known as beta-2 
receptors in the muscles of the  airways. When it attaches to these receptors, it  causes the muscles to 
relax, which keeps the airways open and helps with  the patient’s breathing. 
Glycopyrronium bromide is a long-acting  muscarinic receptor antagonist.  This means that  it blocks 
muscarinic receptors in  muscle cells in the airways. Because these receptors help control the 
contraction of muscles, glycopyrronium causes the muscles of the airways to relax, helping to keep the 
airways open. 
Budesonide belongs to a group of anti-inflammatory medicines known as corticosteroids. It works in  a 
similar way to naturally occurring corticosteroid hormones, reducing the activity of the immune system 
(the body’s natural defences) by attaching  to receptors in various types of immune cell. This leads to a 
reduction in the release of substances that  are involved in the  inflammation process, such as 
histamine, thereby keeping the airways clear and allowing the patient  to breathe more easily. 
What benefits of Riltrava Aerosphere have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies in over 10,000  patients with  moderate to very severe COPD have shown that Riltrava 
Aerosphere is effective at improving patients’ FEV1 (the maximum volume of air they can breathe out 
in one second) and at reducing the number of exacerbations (flare-ups) of the  disease. 
In the first study, patients  treated with Riltrava Aerosphere for 24 weeks had FEV1 increases of around 
147 ml, compared with  125  ml for patients treated with  glycopyrronium/formoterol, and 73 ml and 
88 ml for patients treated with two different inhalers containing  budesonide/formoterol. 
The second study, which  lasted one year, showed that patients  treated with Riltrava Aerosphere had 
fewer COPD exacerbations (1.08  per year) than patients  treated with with  glycopyrronium/formoterol 
(1.42)  or budesonide/formoterol (1.24). 
What are the risks associated with Riltrava Aerosphere? 
The most common side effects with  Riltrava Aerosphere (which may affect up to 1 in  10 people) are 
pneumonia (lung infection), headache and urinary tract infection. 
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of Riltrava Aerosphere, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Riltrava Aerosphere authorised in the EU? 
Riltrava Aerosphere improved lung function in patients  with  moderate to severe COPD, and reduced 
disease exacerbations. The safety profile of Riltrava Aerosphere is considered similar to that  of 
medicines containing  combinations of a corticosteroid, beta-2 agonist and antimuscarinic. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Riltrava Aerosphere’s benefits are greater than its 
risks and it  can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Riltrava Aerosphere? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Riltrava Aerosphere have been included in  the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Riltrava Aerosphere are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with  Riltrava Aerosphere are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Riltrava Aerosphere (formoterol / glycopyrronium bromide / budesonide)  
EMA/697663/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Riltrava Aerosphere 
Riltrava Aerosphere received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU on 6 January 2022. 
Further information on Riltrava Aerosphere can be found on the Agency’s website: 
www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/riltrava-aerosphere.  
This overview was last updated in  12-2021. 
Riltrava Aerosphere (formoterol / glycopyrronium bromide / budesonide)  
EMA/697663/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
