EMA/300585/2012  
EMEA/H/C/002622 
EPAR summary for the public 
Riluzole Zentiva 
riluzole 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Riluzole Zentiva. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Riluzole Zentiva. 
What is Riluzole Zentiva? 
Riluzole Zentiva is a medicine containing the active substance riluzole. It is available as tablets (50 
mg). 
This medicine is the same as Rilutek, which is already authorised in the European Union (EU). The 
company that makes Rilutek has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Riluzole Zentiva 
(‘informed consent’).  
What is Riluzole Zentiva used for? 
Riluzole Zentiva is used in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). ALS is a form of motor 
neurone disease where attacks of the nerve cells responsible for sending instructions to the muscles 
lead to weakness, muscle waste and paralysis. Riluzole Zentiva is used to extend the patient’s life, or 
the time before they need to use mechanical ventilation. 
Riluzole Zentiva should not be used in patients with any other form of motor neurone disease. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Riluzole Zentiva used? 
Treatment with Riluzole Zentiva should only be started by a specialist doctor with experience in the 
management of motor neurone diseases. In adult and elderly patients, it is given as 100 mg a day (50 
mg every 12 hours). For more information please see the package leaflet. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Riluzole Zentiva work? 
The active substance in Riluzole Zentiva, riluzole, acts on the nervous system. The exact way in which 
it works in ALS is not known. It is thought that the destruction of nerve cells in motor neurone disease 
may be caused by too much glutamate, a neurotransmitter (chemical messenger). Riluzole stops the 
release of glutamate and this may help in preventing the nerve cells being damaged. 
How has Riluzole Zentiva been studied? 
The effectiveness of Riluzole Zentiva has been compared with that of placebo (a dummy treatment) in 
three studies involving a total of 1,282 patients. One of these studies was in older patients (over 75) 
and in patients with advanced disease. Across the studies, Riluzole Zentiva was given as 50, 100 or 
200 mg per day, and for up to 18 months. The main measure of effectiveness was the average survival 
time. 
What benefit has Riluzole Zentiva shown during the studies? 
The average survival time was significantly longer for patients who received Riluzole Zentiva compared 
with patients who received placebo. Looking at the results of the three studies together, over 18 
months, patients who received Riluzole Zentiva 100 mg/day had an average survival time that was 
about two months longer than the survival time for patients who received placebo. Riluzole Zentiva 50 
mg/day was no more effective than placebo and 200 mg/day was no more effective than 100 mg/day. 
The medicine was not more effective than placebo in the late stages of ALS. 
What is the risk associated with Riluzole Zentiva? 
The most common side effects seen with Riluzole Zentiva (in more than 1 patient in 10) are nausea 
(feeling sick), asthenia (weakness) and abnormal liver tests (increased in liver enzymes levels). For 
the full list of all side effects reported with Riluzole Zentiva, see the package leaflet. 
Riluzole Zentiva must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to riluzole or any of the 
other ingredients. Riluzole Zentiva must not be used in patients who have liver disease or who have 
abnormally high levels of liver enzymes. Riluzole Zentiva must also not be given to women who are 
pregnant or breast-feeding.  
Why has Riluzole Zentiva been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Riluzole Zentiva’s benefits are greater than its risks to extend life or the time to 
mechanical ventilation for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. They noted that there is no 
evidence that Riluzole Zentiva exerts a therapeutic effect on motor function, lung function, 
fasciculations, muscle strength and motor symptoms, and that it has not been shown to be effective in 
the late stages of ALS. The Committee recommended that Riluzole Zentiva be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Other information about Riluzole Zentiva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Riluzole Zentiva on 7 May 2012. 
The full EPAR for Riluzole Zentiva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Riluzole Zentiva  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
treatment with Riluzole Zentiva, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2012. 
Riluzole Zentiva  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
