Annex 
Scientific conclusions 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
On 28 January 2022, pursuant to Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the European 
Commission requested the opinion of the Agency on whether the marketing authorisation of Cibinqo, 
Jyseleca, Olumiant, Rinvoq and Xeljanz should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked.  
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation by the PRAC 
This referral procedure concerns JAKis approved for inflammatory disorders: 
•  Xeljanz (tofacitinib):  rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), ankylosing spondylitis 
(AS), ulcerative colitis (UC) and juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). 
•  Olumiant (barcitinib): RA, alopecia areata (AA) and atopic dermatitis (AD) 
•  Cibinqo (abrocitinib): AD  
• 
Jyseleca (filgotinib): RA and UC  
•  Rinvoq (upadacitinib): RA, PsA, AS, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA), UC 
and AD 
These medicinal products inhibit different JAK isoforms which attenuates signalling of interleukins and 
interferons, resulting in modulation of the immune and inflammatory response.  
The background to this referral procedure is based on data from the ORAL Surveillance study 
A3921133. This is a Phase 3b/4 randomised study that evaluates the safety of tofacitinib at two doses 
(5 mg and 10 mg BID) versus TNFi. The study is a post-marketing commitment to assess the risk of 
cardiovascular events in subjects 50 years of age and older with at least one cardiovascular risk factor 
with moderately or severely active RA. 
Interim results from the ORAL Surveillance study were assessed in 2019 in an Article 20 referral 
procedure (EMEA/H/A-20/1485) and a preliminary analysis of the final results were included in signal 
procedure (EPITT 19382) which concluded in June 2021. The PRAC concluded that tofacitinib is 
associated with an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and that there is a potential risk 
regarding increased mortality. This was partly driven by a higher mortality rate due to serious 
infections for tofacitinib and was particularly apparent for patients aged 65 years and above. Further, 
there was an increased incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and higher risk of 
malignancy with tofacitinib compared to TNFi. The PI of tofacitinib, but not the other JAKis, was 
updated accordingly. 
The final results of the completed ORAL Surveillance study confirmed the findings observed in the 
preliminary analysis. No randomised controlled studies have been concluded with the other JAKis to 
specifically evaluate the safety concerns of interest. However, preliminary results on baricitinib were 
made available from the observational Study I4V-MC-B023 (B023) showed an increased rate of MACE 
and VTE with baricitinib compared to TNFi in RA patients. A safety referral was therefore triggered to 
assess whether the safety concerns on MACE, VTEs, serious infections, malignancies and mortality 
observed in rheumatoid arthritis patients with tofacitinib are a class effect and to assess its impact on 
the benefit risk balance of the JAKis used in the treatment of chronic inflammatory disorders.   
Following assessment of the currently available mechanistic data, together with current knowledge of 
the safety profiles of these substances, the PRAC considered the main safety events observed during 
tofacitinib treatment in the ORAL Surveillance study as general JAKi class effects. This view was also 
supported by the Ad Hoc Expert Group.  
2 
 
 
 
 
It is acknowledged that the extent to which the tofacitinib ORAL Surveillance data on MACE, VTE, 
serious infections, malignancies and mortality are applicable to all JAKis approved for inflammatory 
conditions, across the target populations, depends also on the similarities of the respective populations 
including presence of risk factors for occurrence of the observed adverse events. Overall, the ORAL 
Surveillance study population is considered sufficiently similar to the populations covered by the adult 
arthritis indications RA and PsA to allow extrapolation of data. The target populations of the other 
rheumatic disorders and UC are considered to be sufficiently similar, with regards to important disease 
characteristics and baseline risk factors, for the ORAL Surveillance data to be relevant. 
For the AD population, the prevalence of risk factors (including age and co-morbidities) is different 
compared to a RA population, mainly explained by lower age and disease specific differences. Patients 
with AD are already due to their underlying disease at increased risk for cardiovascular comorbidities 
compared to the general population (e.g. Ivert et al., 2019), which supports extrapolation of the 
findings in RA in the ORAL surveillance study to AD. Regarding treatment of severe AA, the PRAC 
acknowledged that this patient group generally has less risk factors for the main serious safety 
outcomes compared with e.g. RA patients, as they are at least not associated to the underlying 
disease.  
Nevertheless, as also pointed out by the Ad Hoc Expert Group, if a patient has risk factors in any of the 
authorised indications, the patient would be equally at risk for the safety findings being the focus of 
this review. JAKis are used for indications requiring chronic treatment, potentially exposing patients 
without risk factors for prolonged periods of time. Thus, even a small increase in absolute risk of 
serious adverse events may be clinically relevant. These risks are monitored and will be further 
characterised in ongoing PASSes. 
Therefore, since the safety events are considered class effects and because the risk factors for these 
events can emerge in populations treated with any of the JAKis, the PRAC concluded that these 
important safety concerns are relevant to all approved indications including the AD and AA populations. 
Impact of class effects on the benefit-risk balance of all JAKis under review 
With regards to the benefits of the JAKis, no new data has emerged within this review. Importantly, in 
general, their benefits seem clinically relevant also for subjects not responding to anti-TNF (in the non-
dermatological indications) or previous systemic AD-treatment, respectively.  
Since data from the ORAL Surveillance study suggest that the risks for the major safety outcomes 
increase with dose, current dosing advice (SmPC section 4.2) is recommended to be revised for all 
products to lower the dose in patients with risk factors for MACE, VTEs, or malignancy and in patients 
65 years of age and older, as applicable. 
The special warnings and precautions (SmPC section 4.4) were updated for all products to align with 
the current recommendations for use for tofacitinib based on the ORAL Surveillance study. Currently, it 
is recommended that tofacitinib should be used only if no suitable treatment alternatives are available 
in patients over 65 years of age, in patients who are current or past smokers, and patients with other 
cardiovascular risk factors. Cautious use is recommended in patients with known risk factors for VTE.  
The Ad Hoc Expert Group (AHEG) also recommended strengthening the existing warning of Xeljanz to 
state that the product should be used with caution in patients with risk factors and being above 50 
years of age, in accordance with the inclusion criteria of the ORAL Surveillance study. However, 
patients with similar risk factors as those included in the ORAL Surveillance study are already targeted 
by the existing warning of tofacitinib, as outlined above.  
The warnings recommended during this review still included some updates to the existing warning for 
tofacitinib:  
3 
 
 
• 
The warning on MACE is updated to include history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease as 
risk factor, as supported by a post hoc analysis of the Oral Surveillance Study.  
• 
The warnings on MACE and malignancies were updated to indicate that the risk factors apply to 
long-time smokers in accordance with the long duration of smoking for patients of the ORAL 
Surveillance study.  
•  All-cause mortality is added as a risk for patients 65 years of age and older. 
• 
The risk factors for VTE were updated to exclude those overlapping with malignancy and MACE, 
to avoid discrepant information across the warnings since different recommendations are 
given. 
In order to specifically highlight the most important considerations for prescribers before and during 
use of these JAKis, the PRAC recommended the addition of a boxed warning in SmPC Section 4.4 to 
indicate the groups of patients for whom JAKis should be only used if no other treatment alternatives 
are available. 
The impact of the safety concerns identified in the ORAL Surveillance study across all approved 
indications for all JAKis under review, were considered. The PRAC acknowledged the fact that, as also 
outlined by the AHEG, the ORAL Surveillance population constitutes a high CV risk population which did 
not include individuals with low CV risk, based on inclusion criteria. This enriched population with 
respect to CV risk had a mean RA disease duration of more than 10 years (Ytterberg et al. 2022), 
which could in many aspects differ from the EU populations targeted by the approved JAKis indications. 
The PRAC also noted that the magnitude of the absolute risks observed in the ORAL Surveillance study 
likely is lower in populations with lower baseline risk. The main challenge is to estimate the magnitude 
of the absolute risks in different patient groups with lower baseline risk, and disease characteristics to 
weigh these risks against the observed/expected benefits and conclude on proportionate risk mitigation 
measures. For this evaluation, some guidance can be derived from the post hoc analysis of subgroups 
in the ORAL Surveillance study but there are also uncertainties deriving from e.g. the degree of 
generalisability of the ORAL Surveillance data to all populations targeted by the approved JAKi 
indications.  
Taking all data available and the AHEG’s view into account, the PRAC considered that an approach 
aiming at more precision and focus on readily identifiable individual risk factors, instead of limiting use 
across the respective target populations, is the preferred option to retain a positive benefit-risk balance 
without depriving patients with low risk of adverse events of an effective treatment option. Therefore, 
the PRAC recommended implementing warnings applicable to patients with certain risk factors in SmPC 
Section 4.4 of all approved JAKis to aid the prescribers in their assessment of benefits and risks for the 
individual patient.  
For all products, the PRAC also recommended updates of the key elements of the existing educational 
materials according to the risk minimisation measures recommended during this procedure, updates to 
the existing PASSes in place to monitor the new risks identified and updates to the existing drug 
utilisation studies (DUSs), or the implementation of new DUS, if none are in place, to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the newly recommended risk minimisation measures. The PRAC acknowledged the 
recommendation from the AHEG to consider additional pharmacovigilance activities. However, the 
PRAC did not consider such additional activities necessary as there are a number of ongoing PASS for 
the 5 JAKis. The PRAC agreed that a DHPC should be distributed to the HCP in order to inform about 
the recommended risk minimisation measures. 
4 
 
 
Benefit-risk balance of individual JAKis under review 
Cibinqo (abrocitinib) 
Cibinqo has recently been approved, for the treatment of AD. With regards to the benefit, abrocitinib 
has proven to be efficacious for the treatment of AD; both in monotherapy and combination studies. 
Effects in patients having received prior systemic immunosuppressant treatment were consistent with 
the results in the overall study population. Long-term prevention of AD flare was achieved in a 
majority of patients with the induction-maintenance regimen. The product is currently approved with a 
posology to use 200 mg QD as induction treatment, with an aim to rapidly achieve disease control 
followed by dose reduction to the lowest effective dose for maintenance treatment for most patients. A 
starting dose of 100 mg once daily is recommended for patients 65 years of age and older, and there is 
a reference to SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 for other patient groups who may benefit from a starting 
dose of 100 mg.  
Regarding the established risks, the available long term safety data are limited. Nevertheless, 
thromboembolic events including pulmonary embolism are already listed as uncommon ADRs. 
Furthermore, herpes zoster including ophthalmic zoster (common), and pneumonia (uncommon) are 
already listed as ADRs. For MACE, although currently available data are still not mature for final 
conclusion, there is a trend for a dose dependency, and a higher occurrence than in the comparative 
arm in studies. 
Considering the results from the ORAL Surveillance study, showing that increased risks for some of the 
key safety concerns only became apparent until after more than 2 years treatment, there are 
uncertainties regarding the long-term safety with abrocitinib. Nevertheless, as results from this study 
are considered relevant for all substances covered by this referral, the main outcomes are considered 
safety concerns also for abrocitinib. Therefore, product information updates were recommended by the 
PRAC to implement warnings across the class of JAKis. Further revisions of the warnings on 
malignancies and VTEs (SmPC section 4.4) were also made following review of abrocitinib-specific data 
during this procedure.  
In addition, since data from the ORAL Surveillance study suggest that the risks for the major safety 
outcomes of MACE, VTE and malignancy increase with dose, the PRAC recommended updating the 
posology (SmPC Section 4.2) to recommend a starting dose of 100 mg in patients at higher risks of 
VTE, MACE and malignancy and that the use of the 200 mg dose may be considered in patients who 
would benefit the most from a higher dose i.e. those with high disease burden but not at higher risk for 
MACE, VTE and malignancy or patients with an inadequate response to 100 mg. The dose should be 
decreased to 100 mg once daily upon disease control. In addition, the PRAC recommended the use of 
100 mg once daily in patients 65 years of age and older. 
Jyseleca (filgotinib) 
With respect to the established benefit of filgotinib, the available data support that filgotinib is an 
effective treatment for RA and UC. Additionally, overall data presented by the MAH support that for 
patients with RA or UC, who failed to achieve therapeutic response to a TNF inhibitor, could still benefit 
from using filgotinib. The currently recommended dose for Jyseleca is 200 mg once daily, a starting 
dose of 100 mg is recommended in patients 75 years of age and older. 
Overall, the main safety outcomes of the ORAL Surveillance study with increased risk for VTE, MACE, 
serious infections and malignancy with tofacitinib versus TNFi) are considered class effects relevant to 
all JAKis in their approved indications, and the SmPC Section 4.4 is updated to implement class 
warnings. Further, SmPC section 4.8 is updated following review of filgotinib specific data during this 
procedure, to add sepsis as an ADR (frequency: uncommon).  
5 
 
 
 
Since data from the ORAL Surveillance study suggest that the risks of MCAE, VTE and malignancy 
increase with dose, the PRAC recommended the use of 100 mg once daily for the treatment RA and for 
maintenance treatment of UC, in patients at increased risk of VTE, MACE, malignancy and in patients 
65 years and older. The dose may be escalated to 200 mg once daily in case of insufficient disease 
control. For long term treatment, the lowest effective dose should be used. 
Olumiant (baricitinib) 
With respect to the established benefits of baricitinib, the available data support that baricitinib is an 
effective treatment in its approved indications.  
For AD, the benefit/risk balance of baricitinib was considered positive in patients treated with systemic 
therapy (ciclosporin) prior to baricitinib, based on clinical studies. Dupilumab was the second available 
approved systemic therapy at the time of the application of baricitinib. No head-to-head comparison 
studies with ciclosporin or dupilumab have been performed. Regarding efficacy in AD patients treated 
with systemic therapy prior to baricitinib, the developmental programme comprised patients who are 
candidates for systemic therapy only. In the All BARI AD data set, 51% of the patients received prior 
treatment, and one study was performed in patients previously treated with ciclosporin. In this study, 
the proportion of patients reaching EASI75 at week 16 was significantly larger than in placebo and 
secondary outcomes supported these findings. The effects lasted at least until 52 weeks.  
For AA, two main studies in 1200 adults with severe alopecia areata showed that baricitinib was 
effective at reducing hair loss compared to placebo. In these studies, after 36 weeks of treatment, the 
extent of hair loss improved from over 50% to under 20% of scalp hair in 34% of the participants 
taking 4 mg of baricitinib and in 20% of the participants taking 2 mg of baricitinib, compared with 4% 
of the participants taking placebo. 
The main source for comparison of safety between baricitinib and TNFi currently stems from the 
observational B023 study in RA, which suggests an increased risk for MACE (IRR 0.92; 1.27 – 2.91) 
and VTE (IRR 1.34; 0.84 – 2.14) for baricitinib versus TNFi. This higher risk for VTE was also found in a 
clinical trial directly comparing baricitinib and TNFi. VTE is already listed/known ADR for baricitinib and 
is included in the PI. Furthermore, the observed increased risks of MACE and VTE seem consistent 
across tofacitinib and baricitinib and taking the assumed JAKi class effect into account; the main safety 
outcomes of the ORAL Surveillance study are considered relevant also for baricitinib. Finally, there are 
data showing that baricitinib has a clinically relevant effect also in patients with previous inadequate 
response to adalimumab (TNFi).  
Overall, the main safety outcomes of the ORAL surveillance study (increased risk for VTE, MACE, 
serious infections and malignancy (excluding NMSC) with tofacitinib versus TNFi) are considered class 
effects of all JAKis. Additionally, the available clinical study data on baricitinib show trends of increased 
incidence of some of the adverse events of interests also with baricitinib. Therefore, product 
information updates were recommended by the PRAC to implement warnings across the class of JAKis, 
and to apply to all indications of baricitinib, including the AA indication.  
Since data from the ORAL Surveillance study suggest that the risks for the major safety outcomes of 
MACE, VTE and malignancy increase with dose, the current recommendation to use the 2mg dose in 
patients ≥75 years is updated to recommend the use of lower dose of 2mg once daily for patients 65 
years and older and in patients at higher risk of VTE, MACE and malignancy. A dose of 4 mg once daily 
may be considered in case of inadequate response. 
6 
 
 
Rinvoq (updadacitinib) 
The overall benefit of upadacitinib treatment is considered unchanged by the current procedure and 
thus consistent with the presentation of efficacy data in section 5.1 of the approved SmPC. The data 
presented by MAH support benefits of upadacitinib also in patients with RA, PsA and AS who previously 
failed to achieve therapeutic response to TNF inhibitors.  
Regarding AD, upadacitinib has a clinically relevant efficacy, with short onset, and it is given via oral 
administration. Furthermore, long-term safety of upadacitinib is presently not established, which is an 
additional uncertainty. 
For the recently approved indications i.e. UC and nr-axSpA, the safety profile and concerns regarding 
the benefit/risk are consistent with those of the other approved indications. 
As concluded in the current review, the main safety outcomes of the ORAL Surveillance study data are 
considered class effects of all JAKis. Additionally, the available clinical study data on upadacitinib 
further support these being main safety concerns. Therefore, product information updates were 
recommended by the PRAC to implement warnings across the class of JAKis. Further revisions of the 
wording of warnings on serious infections and malignancy in SmPC Sections 4.4 and SmPC Section 4.8 
were made following review of upadacitinib specific data to add sepsis (frequency: uncommon) and 
NMSC (frequency: common) as ADRs. 
In light of the dose dependency of the safety events of MACE, VTE and malignancy observed in the 
ORAL Surveillance study that are considered relevant to the class of JAKis, the PRAC recommended to 
update the posology (SmPC Section 4.2) of Rinvoq for the treatment of AD and maintenance treatment 
of UC, to recommend the use of 15 mg once daily in patients with risk factors for VTE, MACE and 
malignancy. A dose of 30 mg once daily can be considered in patients who would benefit the most from 
a higher dose i.e. those with high disease burden but not at higher risk for VTE, MACE and malignancy, 
or for patients with an inadequate response to 15 mg. Lowest effective dose during maintenance 
treatment of both settings is also recommended. 
Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
With respect to the established benefits of tofacitinib, the available data support that tofacitinib is an 
effective treatment in its approved indications. The MAH has now provided support also for the efficacy 
of tofacitinib in patients previously treated with TNFi.  
The final results of the ORAL Surveillance study (A3921133) show an increased incidence for major 
safety risks that are known ADRs of tofacitinib, including MACE, MI, VTE, malignancy and death, NMSC 
and serious infections in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNFi, and this pattern was 
observed for both approved tofacitinib doses (i.e. 5 mg BID and 10 mg BID). Dose-dependency was 
observed for several safety outcomes, with increased risks of all-cause mortality, thromboembolic 
events and serious infections in tofacitinib 10 mg BID compared to tofacitinib 5 mg BID and TNFi. 
The SmPC of tofacitinib is updated to include the final results of the ORAL Surveillance study in SmPC 
Sections 4.8 and 5.1.  
The existing warning on VTE, malignancies and MACE in SmPC Section 4.4 is updated as described 
above.   
Further, the PRAC recommended updating the posology recommendation on the 10 mg BID 
maintenance dose in UC patients in SmPC Section 4.2 to align with the warnings on MACE and 
malignancies in SmPC Section 4.4. 
7 
 
 
Overall, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Cibinqo, Jyseleca, Olumiant, Rinvoq and 
Xeljanz remains positive subject to changes to the product information and implementation of risk 
minimisation measures recommended by the PRAC. 
Grounds for PRAC recommendation 
Whereas, 
• 
The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting 
from pharmacovigilance data for the JAKis used in the treatment of inflammatory disorders. 
The concerned products are Cibinqo, Jyseleca, Olumiant, Rinvoq and Xeljanz. 
• 
The PRAC considered the totality of the data submitted during the referral in relation to the 
risks of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs), venous thromboembolism (VTE), 
malignancy, serious infections and all-cause mortality. This included the responses submitted 
by the marketing authorisation holders in writing and during oral explanations as well as the 
outcome of an Ad hoc expert group meeting.  
• 
The PRAC concluded that, based on the currently available data, the increased risk for MACE, 
VTE, malignancy, serious infections and all-cause mortality observed in the ORAL Surveillance 
study with tofacitinib compared with TNF-inhibitors are considered JAKis class effects. The 
PRAC also concluded that these safety findings observed in patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
apply to all approved indications for the JAKis used in the treatment of chronic inflammatory 
disorders. However, the magnitude of the absolute risk depends on the background risk in the 
respective populations.  
• 
To minimise these risks, the PRAC recommended implementing warnings for all JAKis included 
in this review that these products should only be used in patients 65 years of age and older, 
who are current or past long-time smoker, with history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
disease or other cardiovascular risk factors, or with other malignancy risk factors (e.g. current, 
or history of malignancy) if no suitable treatment alternatives are available. Cautious use is 
recommended in patients with known risk factors for VTE, other than those listed above. 
• 
The PRAC recommended revising current dosing advice to lower the dose in certain patient 
groups with risk factors since the occurrence of MACEs, VTEs, malignancies, serious infections 
and all-cause mortality have been observed in a dose dependent manner.  
o  For Cibinqo, a lower starting dose is recommended in patients at higher risk for VTE, 
MACE, and malignancy with the possibility of a dose escalation in case of inadequate 
response. The lower dose is recommended for use in patients 65 years and older.  
o  For Jyseleca, in the treatment of RA and for maintenance treatment of UC, a lower 
dose is recommended in patients at higher risk for VTE, MACE, and malignancy and in 
patients 65 years and older, with the possibility of a dose escalation in case of 
inadequate response.  
o  For Olumiant, a lower dose is recommended for patients at higher risk of VTE, MACE 
and malignancy, for patients 65 years and older and for patients with history of chronic 
and recurrent infections, with the possibility of a dose escalation in case of inadequate 
response.  
o  For Rinvoq, in the treatment of AD and maintenance treatment of UC, a lower dose is 
recommended in patients at higher risk for VTE, MACE, malignancy and in patients 65 
8 
 
 
years and older, with the possibility of a dose escalation in case of inadequate 
response.  
o  For Xeljanz, the high dose is no longer recommended for the treatment of ulcerative 
colitis patients with CV and malignancy risk factors, unless there is no suitable 
alternative treatment available. 
•  Based on the clinical data presented, the PRAC recommended including new adverse reactions 
for Jyseleca with the addition of sepsis (frequency: uncommon) and for Rinvoq with the 
addition of sepsis (frequency uncommon) and non-malignant skin cancer (frequency: 
common). 
• 
The PRAC recommended an update of the key elements of the educational materials 
accordingly. 
• 
PRAC recommended updates of the risk management plans including studies of drug utilisation 
accordingly.  
• 
The PRAC also agreed on a direct healthcare professional communication, together with the 
timelines for its distribution. 
In view of the above, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Cibinqo, Jyseleca, Olumiant, 
Rinvoq and Xeljanz 
• 
is favourable subject to changes to the product information and other risk minimisation 
measures as described above. 
CHMP opinion 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions and 
grounds for recommendation.  
9 
 
 
 
