EMA/790709/2014 
EMEA/H/C/001235 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ristfor 
sitagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Ristfor. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Ristfor. 
What is Ristfor? 
Ristfor is a diabetes medicine that contains two active substances, sitagliptin and metformin 
hydrochloride. It is available as tablets (50 mg sitagliptin and 850 mg metformin hydrochloride; 50 mg 
sitagliptin and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride). 
What is Ristfor used for? 
Ristfor is used in patients with type 2 diabetes to improve the control of blood glucose (sugar) levels. It 
is used in addition to diet and exercise in the following ways: 
• 
• 
• 
in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin (a diabetes medicine) used on its 
own; 
in patients who are already taking a combination of sitagliptin and metformin as separate tablets; 
in combination with a sulphonylurea, a PPAR-gamma agonist such as a thiazolidinedione, or insulin 
(other types of diabetes medicine) in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on this medicine 
and metformin. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Ristfor used? 
Ristfor is taken twice a day. The strength of tablet to use depends on the dose of the other diabetes 
medicines that the patient was taking before. If Ristfor is taken with a sulphonylurea or insulin, the 
dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may need to be lowered, to avoid hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar 
levels). 
The maximum dose of sitagliptin is 100 mg a day. Ristfor should be taken with food to avoid any 
stomach problems caused by metformin. 
How does Ristfor work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substances in 
Ristfor, sitagliptin and metformin hydrochloride, each have a different mode of action. 
Sitagliptin is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP 4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown of ‘incretin’ 
hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the pancreas to 
produce insulin. By increasing the levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin stimulates the 
pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does not work when 
the blood glucose is low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the liver, by 
increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Sitagliptin has been 
authorised in the European Union (EU) as Januvia and Xelevia since 2007 and as Tesavel since 2008. 
Metformin works mainly by inhibiting glucose production and reducing its absorption in the gut. 
Metformin has been available in the EU since the 1950s. 
As a result of the action of both active substances, blood glucose levels are reduced and this helps to 
control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Ristfor been studied? 
Sitagliptin on its own as Januvia/Xelevia/Tesavel can be used with metformin, and with both metformin 
and a sulphonylurea, in type 2 diabetes patients. The company presented the results of three studies 
of Januvia/Xelevia to support the use of Ristfor in patients who were not satisfactorily controlled on 
their existing metformin treatment. Two of the studies looked at sitagliptin as an add-on to metformin: 
the first compared it with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 701 patients, and the second compared it 
with glipizide (a sulphonylurea) in 1,172 patients. The third study compared sitagliptin with placebo, 
when used as an add-on to glimepiride (another sulphonylurea), with or without metformin, in 441 
patients. 
The results of three further studies were used to support the use of Ristfor. The first included 1,091 
patients who were not satisfactorily controlled on diet and exercise alone and compared the effect of 
Ristfor with that of metformin or sitagliptin alone. The second included 278 patients who were not 
satisfactorily controlled on the combination of metformin and rosiglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) 
and compared the effects of adding sitagliptin or placebo. The third included 641 patients who were 
not satisfactorily controlled on a stable dose of insulin, three-quarters of whom were also taking 
metformin. This study also compared the effects of adding sitagliptin or placebo. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the levels of a substance in 
the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. 
Ristfor  
EMA/790709/2014  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
The company carried out additional studies to show that the active substances in Ristfor are absorbed 
by the body in the same way as the two medicines given separately. 
What benefit has Ristfor shown during the studies? 
Ristfor was more effective than metformin alone. Adding 100 mg sitagliptin to metformin reduced 
HbA1c levels by 0.67% (from around 8.0%) after 24 weeks, compared with a fall of 0.02% in the 
patients adding placebo. The effectiveness of adding sitagliptin to metformin was similar to that of 
adding glipizide. In the study in which sitagliptin was added to glimepiride and metformin, the levels of 
HbA1c were reduced by 0.59% after 24 weeks, compared with an increase of 0.30% in the patients 
adding placebo. 
In the first of the three further studies, Ristfor was more effective than metformin or sitagliptin alone. 
In the second, HbA1c levels were reduced by 1.03% after 18 weeks in patients adding sitagliptin to 
metformin and rosiglitazone, compared with a fall of 0.31% in those adding placebo. Finally, they were 
reduced by 0.59% after 24 weeks in patients adding sitagliptin to insulin, compared with a fall of 
0.03% in those adding placebo. There was no difference in this effect between the patients also taking 
metformin and those not taking it. 
What is the risk associated with Ristfor? 
Serious side effects reported with Ristfor include pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) and 
hypersensitivity (allergic reactions). Hypoglycaemia has been reported in combination with a 
sulphonylurea in 13.8% of patients and with insulin in 10.9% of patients. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Ristfor, see the package leaflet. 
Ristfor must not be used in patients who have diabetic ketoacidosis or pre coma (dangerous conditions 
that can occur in diabetes), problems with the kidneys or liver, conditions that may affect the kidneys, 
or a disease that causes a reduced supply of oxygen to the tissues such as failure of the heart or lungs 
or a recent heart attack. It must also not be used in patients who consume excessive amounts of 
alcohol or are alcoholic, or in women who are breast-feeding. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why has Ristfor been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Ristfor’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ristfor? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Ristfor is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Ristfor, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Ristfor: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Ristfor on 15 
March 2010. This authorisation was based on the authorisation granted to Janumet in 2008 (‘informed 
consent’). 
Ristfor  
EMA/790709/2014  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Ristfor can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Ristfor, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2015. 
Ristfor  
EMA/790709/2014  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
