EMA/790269/2014 
EMEA/H/C/001234 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ristaben 
sitagliptin  
This is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Ristaben. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Ristaben.  
What is Ristaben? 
Ristaben is a diabetes medicine that contains the active substance sitagliptin. It is available as tablets 
(25, 50 and 100 mg). 
What is Ristaben used for? 
Ristaben is used in patients with type 2 diabetes to improve the control of blood glucose (sugar) levels. 
It is used in addition to diet and exercise in the following ways: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
on its own, in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on diet and exercise and in whom 
metformin (a diabetes medicine) is not suitable; 
in combination with metformin or a PPAR-gamma agonist (a type of diabetes medicine) such as a 
thiazolidinedione, in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin or the PPAR-
gamma agonist used on its own; 
in combination with a sulphonylurea (another type of diabetes medicine) in patients who are not 
satisfactorily controlled with a sulphonylurea used on its own and in whom metformin is not 
suitable; 
in combination with both metformin, and a sulphonylurea or a PPAR-gamma agonist, in patients 
who are not satisfactorily controlled on the two medicines; 
in combination with insulin, with or without metformin, in patients who are not satisfactorily 
controlled on a stable dose of insulin. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Ristaben used? 
Ristaben is taken at a dose of 100 mg once a day. If Ristaben is taken with a sulphonylurea or insulin, 
the dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may need to be lowered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia 
(low blood sugar levels). 
In patients with moderately or severely reduced kidney function the dose of Ristaben should be 
reduced. 
How does Ristaben work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance in 
Ristaben, sitagliptin, is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP 4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown 
of ‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the 
pancreas to produce insulin. By increasing levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin 
stimulates the pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does 
not work when the blood glucose is low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the 
liver, by increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Together, these 
processes reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Ristaben been studied? 
Ristaben was studied in nine studies involving almost 6,000 patients with type 2 diabetes whose blood 
glucose levels were not adequately controlled: 
• 
• 
• 
four of the studies compared Ristaben with placebo (a dummy treatment). Ristaben or placebo 
were used on their own in two studies involving 1,262 patients, as an add-on to metformin in one 
study involving 701 patients, and as an add-on to pioglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) in one 
study involving 353 patients; 
two studies compared Ristaben with other diabetes medicines. One study compared Ristaben with 
glipizide (a sulphonylurea), when they were used as an add-on to metformin in 1,172 patients. The 
other study compared Ristaben with metformin, used on their own, in 1,058 patients; 
three additional studies compared Ristaben with placebo when they were added to other diabetes 
medicines: glimepiride (another sulphonylurea), with or without metformin, in 441 patients; the 
combination of metformin and rosiglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) in 278 patients; and a stable 
dose of insulin, with or without metformin, in 641 patients. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level of a substance in 
the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Ristaben shown during the studies? 
Ristaben was more effective than placebo when it was taken alone or in combination with other 
diabetes medicines. In patients taking Ristaben on its own, HbA1c levels fell from around 8.0% at the 
start of the studies by 0.48% after 18 weeks and 0.61% after 24 weeks. In contrast, they rose by 
0.12% and 0.18%, respectively, in the patients taking placebo. Adding Ristaben to metformin reduced 
Ristaben  
EMA/790269/2014  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
HbA1c levels by 0.67% after 24 weeks, compared with a fall of 0.02% in the patients adding placebo. 
When added to pioglitazone, Ristaben reduced HbA1c levels by 0.85% after 24 weeks, compared with 
a fall of 0.15% in the patients adding placebo. 
In the studies comparing Ristaben with other medicines, the effectiveness of adding Ristaben to 
metformin was similar to that of adding glipizide. When taken on their own, Ristaben and metformin 
produced similar reductions in HbA1c levels, but the effectiveness of Ristaben seemed to be slightly 
lower than that of metformin. 
In the additional studies, adding Ristaben to glimepiride (with or without metformin) led to a reduction 
in HbA1c levels of 0.45% after 24 weeks, compared with an increase of 0.28% in the patients adding 
placebo. HbA1c levels were reduced by 1.03% after 18 weeks in patients adding Ristaben to metformin 
and rosiglitazone, compared with a fall of 0.31% in those adding placebo. Finally, they were reduced 
by 0.59% in patients adding Ristaben to insulin (with or without metformin), compared with a fall of 
0.03% in those adding placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Ristaben? 
Serious side effects reported with Ristaben include pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) and 
hypersensitivity (allergic reactions). Hypoglycaemia has been reported in combination with a 
sulphonylurea in 4.7-13.8% of patients and with insulin in 9.6% of patients. For the full list of all side 
effects and restrictions with Ristaben, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Ristaben been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Ristaben’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ristaben 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Ristaben is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Ristaben, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients.  
Other information about Ristaben: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ristaben on 15 March 2010. This authorisation was based on the authorisation granted to Januvia in 
2007 (‘informed consent’). 
The full EPAR for Ristaben can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ristaben, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2015. 
Ristaben  
EMA/790269/2014  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
