SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Ritonavir Mylan (ritonavir) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ritonavir Mylan. The RMP details 
important risks of ritonavir, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be 
obtained about ritonavir’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ritonavir  Mylan’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Ritonavir Mylan should be read in the context of all the information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ritonavir 
Mylan’s RMP. 
The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Ritonavir Mylan is authorised in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of 
HIV-1 infected patients (adults and children of 2 years of age and older). It contains ritonavir as 
the active substance, and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of ritonavir’s benefits can be found in ritonavir’s EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further Characterise the 
Risks 
Important risks of risk, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of ritonavir is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Ritonavir Mylan are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product  can be safely  taken by patients. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Ritonavir Mylan. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is  currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.); 
Summary of safety concerns 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
•  None 
•  None 
•  None 
Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Ritonavir Mylan. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Ritonavir Mylan. 
