EMA/621228/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004549 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ritonavir Mylan 
ritonavir 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ritonavir Mylan. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Ritonavir Mylan. 
For practical information about using Ritonavir Mylan, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Ritonavir Mylan and what is it used for? 
Ritonavir Mylan is used in combination with other medicines to treat patients over two years of age 
who are infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Ritonavir Mylan contains the active substance ritonavir and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Ritonavir Mylan contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Norvir. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Ritonavir Mylan used? 
Ritonavir Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment with Ritonavir Mylan should be 
given by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of HIV infection. It is available as tablets 
(100 mg) and should be taken with food. 
Ritonavir Mylan can be used as a ‘pharmacokinetic enhancer’ (booster) to increase the blood levels of 
other antiviral medicines that belong to the same group as Ritonavir Mylan (protease inhibitors) 
including amprenavir, atazanavir, darunavir, fosamprenavir, lopinavir, saquinavir, and tipranavir. The 
usual dose of Ritonavir Mylan for adults is 100 or 200 mg, once or twice a day. The dose depends on 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
which other protease inhibitor is being taken. For more information, see the package leaflet provided 
with the other medicine. 
Ritonavir Mylan can also be used in larger doses for a direct antiviral effect on HIV. The recommended 
dose for adults (aged 18 years or over) is 600 mg twice a day. For younger patients, the 
recommended dose depends on the patient’s height and weight. Treatment should start with a low 
dose that is gradually increased over the first 14 days of treatment. 
How does Ritonavir Mylan work? 
As a ‘booster’, the active substance ritonavir slows the breakdown of other protease inhibitor antivirals. 
This increases the levels of these protease inhibitors in the blood and enhances their antiviral effect. 
At higher antiviral doses, ritonavir is a ‘protease inhibitor’. This means that it blocks a viral enzyme 
called protease, which is involved in the multiplication of HIV. When the enzyme is blocked, the virus 
can no longer multiply normally, slowing down its spread. Ritonavir Mylan, taken in combination with 
other antiviral medicines, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Ritonavir 
Mylan does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it may hold off damage to the immune system and the 
development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Ritonavir Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Norvir, and do not need to be repeated for Ritonavir Mylan.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Ritonavir Mylan. The company 
also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Ritonavir Mylan? 
Because Ritonavir Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Ritonavir Mylan approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Ritonavir Mylan 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Norvir. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Norvir, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Agency recommended that 
Ritonavir Mylan be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ritonavir Mylan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ritonavir Mylan have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet.   
Other information about Ritonavir Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ritonavir Mylan on 10 November 2017. 
Ritonavir Mylan  
EMA/737815/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Ritonavir Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ritonavir Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2017. 
Ritonavir Mylan  
EMA/737815/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
