EMA/534175/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005600 
Rivaroxaban Mylan (rivaroxaban) 
An overview of Rivaroxaban Mylan and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rivaroxaban Mylan and what is it used for? 
Rivaroxaban Mylan is an anticoagulant medicine (a medicine that prevents blood clotting) used: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to treat deep vein thrombosis (DVT, a blood clot in a deep vein, usually in the leg) and pulmonary 
embolism (a clot in a blood vessel supplying the lungs), and to prevent DVT and pulmonary 
embolism from re-occurring in adults; 
to prevent venous thromboembolism (VTE, the formation of blood clots in the veins) in adults who 
are undergoing surgery to replace a hip or knee; 
to treat VTE and prevent VTE from re-occurring in children and adolescents aged less than 18 
years weighing more than 30 kg; 
to prevent stroke (caused by a clot in a blood vessel in the brain) and systemic embolism (a clot in 
other blood vessels) in adults with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (irregular rapid contractions of the 
upper chambers of the heart); 
to prevent atherothrombotic events (such as heart attack, stroke or death from heart disease) in 
adults:  
−  after an acute coronary syndrome, when it is used with an antiplatelet medicine (which 
prevents the formation of blood clots). Acute coronary syndrome consists of conditions such as 
unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain) and heart attack; 
−  at high risk of ischaemic events (problems caused by restricted blood supply) who have 
coronary artery disease (disease caused by obstructed blood supply to the heart muscle) or 
peripheral artery disease (disease caused by defective blood flow in the arteries). It is used 
with aspirin. 
Rivaroxaban Mylan contains the active substance rivaroxaban and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that Rivaroxaban Mylan contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Xarelto. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Rivaroxaban Mylan used? 
Rivaroxaban Mylan is available as tablets of various strengths. The dose and duration of treatment with 
Rivaroxaban Mylan depend on what it is being used for and the patient's risk of bleeding. For children, 
the form, dose and duration of treatment also depend on the patient’s age and weight. Rivaroxaban 
Mylan is given at a lower dose when used in combination with an antiplatelet medicine such as aspirin, 
clopidogrel or ticlopidine. The doctor will regularly evaluate the benefits of ongoing treatment against 
the risk of excessive or internal bleeding. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Rivaroxaban 
Mylan, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Rivaroxaban Mylan work? 
The active substance in Rivaroxaban Mylan, rivaroxaban, is a ‘factor Xa inhibitor’. This means that it 
blocks factor Xa, an enzyme that is involved in the production of thrombin. Thrombin is central to the 
process of blood clotting. By blocking factor Xa, the levels of thrombin decrease, which reduces the risk 
of blood clots forming in the veins and arteries, and also treats existing clots. 
How has Rivaroxaban Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Xarelto, and do not need to be repeated for Rivaroxaban 
Mylan. 
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Rivaroxaban Mylan. The company 
also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Rivaroxaban Mylan? 
Because Rivaroxaban Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Rivaroxaban Mylan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Rivaroxaban 
Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Xarelto. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Xarelto, the benefits of Rivaroxaban Mylan outweigh the identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rivaroxaban Mylan? 
The company that markets Rivaroxaban Mylan will provide an educational pack for doctors who 
prescribe Rivaroxaban Mylan, containing important safety information including on the risk of bleeding 
during treatment with Rivaroxaban Mylan and how to manage this risk. In addition, prescribers will 
receive a patient alert card to give to patients receiving Rivaroxaban Mylan containing key safety 
reminders for patients. 
Rivaroxaban Mylan (rivaroxaban)  
EMA/534175/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rivaroxaban Mylan have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rivaroxaban Mylan are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Rivaroxaban Mylan are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Other information about Rivaroxaban Mylan 
Rivaroxaban Mylan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 12 November 2021. 
Further information on Rivaroxaban Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/rivaroxaban-mylan. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2021. 
Rivaroxaban Mylan (rivaroxaban)  
EMA/534175/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
