17 September 2020 
EMA/550657/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Rivaroxaban Accord  
International non-proprietary name: rivaroxaban 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005279/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 9 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ........................................................................................... 16 
2.4. Introduction ..................................................................................................... 16 
2.4.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ........................................................ 16 
2.4.2. Discussion on non-clinical aspects .................................................................... 16 
2.4.3. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 16 
2.5. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................. 17 
2.5.1. Introduction .................................................................................................. 17 
2.5.2. Pharmacokinetics ........................................................................................... 19 
2.5.3. Pharmacodynamics ......................................................................................... 26 
2.5.4. Post marketing experience .............................................................................. 26 
2.5.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ........................................................................... 26 
2.5.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects ......................................................................... 27 
2.6. Risk management plan ...................................................................................... 27 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................ 30 
2.8. Product information ........................................................................................... 30 
2.8.1. User consultation ........................................................................................... 30 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 31 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 32 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 2/34 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
AE 
ACS 
Adverse event 
Acute coronary syndrome 
ANOVA  
Analysis of variance 
ASA 
Acetylsalicylic acid 
ASMF 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
AUC 
BE  
CAD  
Cmax 
CFU 
CV 
DVT 
EC 
ECG 
ERA 
EU 
FDA 
GC 
GCP 
GLP 
GMP 
HCV  
HDPE 
HPLC 
ICH 
INN 
IR 
KF 
MO 
Area under the plasma concentration curve 
Bioequivalence 
Coronary artery disease 
Maximum concentration 
Colony Forming Units 
Coefficient of variation 
Deep vein thrombosis 
European Commission 
Electrocardiogram 
Environmental risk assessment 
European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
Gas Chromatography 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good Laboratory Practise 
Good Manufacturing Practise 
Hepatitis C virus 
High Density Polyethylene 
High performance liquid chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for  
Registration of  Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
International non-proprietary name 
Infrared 
Karl Fisher 
Major Objection 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 3/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NMR 
NMT 
OGD 
PE 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
No more than 
Office of generic drugs 
pulmonary embolism 
Ph.Eur   
European Pharmacopoeia 
PK 
PSD  
PVC 
QC 
SLS 
Pharmacokinetics 
Particle size distribution 
Polyvinylchloride 
Quality control 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Tmax 
T1/2 
UV 
VTE 
XRD 
Time of the maximum measured plasma concentration 
Elimination or terminal half-life  
Ultraviolet 
Venous thromboembolism 
X-Ray Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 4/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare S.L.U. submitted on 29 July 2019 an application for marketing authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Rivaroxaban Accord, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 31 January 2019. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance 
with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indications: 
Rivaroxaban Accord 2.5 mg 
In combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone or with ASA plus ticlopidine, for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients after an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) with elevated cardiac 
biomarkers. 
In combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients 
with coronary artery disease (CAD) or symptomatic peripheral artery disease (PAD) at high risk of ischaemic 
events. 
Rivaroxaban Accord 10 mg 
Prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT 
and PE in adults.  
Rivaroxaban Accord 15 and 20 mg 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with one or 
more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes mellitus, prior 
stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT 
and PE in adults. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Xarelto instead of non-clinical and clinical studies 
unless justified otherwise. 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 5/34 
 
  
  
 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 8 years in the EEA:  
• Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xarelto 2.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg film coated tablets 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Marketing authorisation holder: Bayer AG 
Date of authorisation: (30-09-2008) 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/472 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xarelto 2.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg film coated tablets  
Marketing authorisation holder: Bayer AG 
Date of authorisation: (30-09-2008) 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/472 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to which 
bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xarelto 2.5, 10 and 20 mg film coated tablets  
Marketing authorisation holder: Bayer AG 
Date of authorisation: (30-09-2008) 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
−  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/08/472 
Bioavailability study numbers: 0444-17, 0977-18 and 725-14 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 6/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice from the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Frantisek Drafi 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
29 July 2019 
15 August 2019 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
4 November 2019 
members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
12 December 2019 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
30 March 2020 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
4 May 2020 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
14 May 2020 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the 
20 May 2020 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing to be sent to 
28 May 2020 
the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
18 August 2020 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
2 September 2020 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
17 September 2020 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Rivaroxaban Accord on  
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 7/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Rivaroxaban Accord film-coated tablets 2.5, 10, 15 and 20mg MAAs have been submitted according to the 
Article 10.1 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended (i.e. generic application) containing the same active 
substance in the same pharmaceutical form and strengths as the reference product. The reference product is 
Xarelto 2.5, 10, 15 and 20mg film-coated tablets, marketed by Bayer AG, that was first approved in the 
European Union on 30/09/2008 via centralised procedure (EU/1/08/472). 
Rivaroxaban is a highly selective direct factor Xa inhibitor with oral bioavailability. Inhibition of factor Xa 
interrupts the intrinsic and extrinsic pathway of the blood coagulation cascade, inhibiting both thrombin 
formation and development of thrombi. Rivaroxaban does not inhibit thrombin (activated factor II) and no 
effects on platelets have been demonstrated. 
The indications applied for Rivaroxaban Accord are almost the same as those for the reference products:  
Rivaroxaban Accord is indicated for: 
2.5 mg: 
Co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone or with ASA plus ticlopidine, for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients after an acute coronary syndrome with elevated cardiac 
biomarkers. 
Co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult 
patients with coronary artery disease or symptomatic peripheral artery disease at high risk of ischaemic 
events. 
10 mg: 
For prevention of venous thromboembolism in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery and treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults. 
15 mg and 20 mg: 
For prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with one 
or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes mellitus, prior 
stroke or transient ischemic attack and for the treatment of DVT and PE, and prevention of recurrent DVT and 
PE in adults. 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. submitted an abridged application relying on the clinical data of the reference 
product. Essential similarity between the test product and the EU reference product was planned to be 
established in vivo for strengths 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg providing results of 3 bioequivalence studies 
(Studies 0444-17, 0977-18 and 725-14) and in vitro for the 15 mg strength. A biowaiver for the 15 mg 
strength has been requested by the applicant based on the satisfactory bioequivalence study on 20 mg 
strength (Study No. 725-14) and in vitro dissolution data comparison. 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 8/34 
 
  
  
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 2.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg of 
rivaroxaban as active substance. 
Other ingredients used for the tablet core are: lactose monohydrate, croscarmellose sodium, sodium 
laurilsulfate, hypromellose, cellulose (microcrystalline), silica (colloidal anhydrous), magnesium stearate. 
Other ingredients used for the film coating are: macrogol, hypromellose, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide 
yellow (E172), iron oxide red (E172). 
The product is available in clear PVC/aluminium blisters or HDPE bottles fitted either with a white opaque 
child resistant polypropylene closure and induction sealing liner wad or with white opaque continuous thread 
polypropylene screw closure and induction sealing liner wad. 
Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of rivaroxaban is 5-chloro-N-({(5S)-2-oxo-3-[4-(3-oxo-4-morpholinyl) phenyl]-1,3-
oxazolidin-5-yl}methyl)-2-thiophene- carboxamide corresponding to the molecular formula C19H18ClN3O5S. It 
has a relative molecular mass of 435.88 and the following structure: 
Figure 1: Rivaroxaban active substance structure 
The chemical structure of rivaroxaban was elucidated by a combination of IR, UV, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR and 
mass spectroscopy. The solid-state properties of the active substance were measured by XRD. 
The active substance is a non-hygroscopic, crystalline white to yellowish solid, soluble in dimethylsulphoxide 
and insoluble in water.  
Rivaroxaban exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of one chiral centre. The S-isomer is the desired 
form. The required chiral centre is present in a starting material and is controlled routinely by chiral HPLC at 
release and on stability.  
Polymorphism has been observed for rivaroxaban; rivaroxaban crystallizes in three polymorphs; 
thermodynamically stable form is used to manufacture the finished product. The same polymorphic form is 
manufactured by the ASMF holder and it is routinely controlled in the active substance specification by XRD.  
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 9/34 
 
  
  
 
 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
One active substance manufacturer, also responsible for testing, is proposed. Detailed information on the 
manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of the ASMF and it was 
considered satisfactory. 
Rivaroxaban is synthesized in 6 main stages using 3 well-defined starting materials with acceptable 
specifications.  
Adequate details of the micronisation step, performed by the manufacturer of the active substance, including 
in process steps and controls, were provided during the procedure. A specification limit for particle size in the 
applicant’s part of the ASMF has also been introduced and stability data provided.  
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented and are satisfactory.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of active substances. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their 
origin and characterised. In response to a MO raised during the procedure, the applicant has provided 
adequate data on the potential genotoxic impurities introduced intentionally in the synthesis (starting 
materials, reagents) or related to desired structures formed (intermediates containing structural alerts). 
Potential genotoxic structures that may arise in the synthesis of rivaroxaban have been identified and 
discussed in detail. The data provide, which take into consideration the control of starting materials, the 
potential level of genotoxic impurities present and their purge, confirm that no control is needed in the active 
substance specification.  
No changes to the manufacturing process have been described in the manufacturing process development 
section. 
The active substance is packaged in a transparent polyethylene bag, tied with strip seal, placed in a second 
transparent polyethylene bag, tied with a second strip seal, placed in triple laminated bag with heat seal and 
packed  in  HDPE  drum.  The  polyethylene  bag  complies  with  the  EC  directive  2002/72/EC  and  meet  the 
requirements of 3.2.2 and 3.1.3 of European Pharmacopoeia for various additives. 
Specification 
The active substance specification,  includes tests for: description (in-house), solubility (Ph. Eur.), 
identification (IR, HPLC, XRD), water (Ph. Eur. -KF), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), related substances (HPLC), 
chiral related substance (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), particle size (Malvern analyzer) and 
microbiological examination (Ph. Eur.). 
The specification includes all the test criteria of the draft rivaroxaban monograph, published in Pharmeuropa 
30.4 (October 2018). 
Description and solubility are included as descriptive tests. Identification is performed by three different 
methods: IR, HPLC and XRD, which ensures the consistency of polymorphic form. 
The limits for water, sulfated ash and specific optical rotation are in line with the reported properties and Ph. 
Eur. method requirements. The limit for assay is also justified as in line with the reported properties and ICH 
Q6A. The limits for related substances are in line with the requirements of ICH Q3A and those of residual 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 10/34 
 
  
  
 
solvents comply with ICH Q3C. No class 1 solvents are employed in the synthesis. The absence of a test for 
residual benzene in the active substance specification has been adequately justified. 
The particle size limits were defined in order to ensure batch to batch consistency including consistency with 
the biobatches.  
As rivaroxaban is manufactured as non-sterile active substance, microbiological quality limits for non-sterile 
substances are included in the specification.  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards 
used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data (4 production scale) of the active substance are provided. The results were within the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from three commercial scale process validation batches of active substance from the proposed 
manufacturer stored in the intended commercial package for up to 48 months under long term conditions 
(25ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH 
guidelines were provided.  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification (IR and XRD), water (KF), related 
substances assay and particle size. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were 
stability indicating. All tested parameters were within the specifications for both the long term and 
accelerated stability data. 
Photostability testing following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on one batch confirming that the active 
substance is photostable. Results under stressed conditions (acid, alkali, oxidation, thermal, humidity, UV and 
fluorescent light degradation) were also provided to demonstrated that the assay and impurity tests are 
stability indicating. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is stable and 
justify the proposed retest period of 36 months when stored in the proposed container. Based on the data 
provided no specific storage conditions are required, however, the applicant choses to state: ‘Preserve in air 
tight container and store at 25°C with excursions permitted to 15°C-30°C which is accepted as it is more 
restrictive than the stability conditions justified by the presented data. 
Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Rivaroxaban film-coated tablets are available in four strengths (2.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg). All the 
strengths have the same qualitative core composition. The tablets are distinguished by colour. 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 11/34 
 
  
  
 
The aim of pharmaceutical development of Rivaroxaban 2.5/10/15/20 film-coated tablets was to develop a 
robust, stable and bioequivalent generic formulation of reference product Xarelto 2.5/10/15/20 mg film-
coated tablets.  
Formulation development was based on preliminary understanding of the molecule, literature data and 
reference product evaluation. As rivaroxaban active substance exhibits very low solubility in aqueous media 
through the whole pH range, sodium laurilsulfate is used as a solubilizer (SLS) in the composition of finished 
product. The excipients are qualitatively the same as those used in the reference product with the exception 
of colloidal anhydrous silica. As demonstrated by the dissolution and bioequivalence studies described below, 
the formulation difference is not considered significant. Compatibility between the active substance and the 
excipients has been confirmed through a binary compatibility study. All excipients are well known 
pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. standards or NF (for the film-coating 
Opadry components). There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The use of 
colloidal anhydrous silica does not pose any concern from a safety perspective. The list of excipients is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC. No overages are used in formulation. The formulation used during 
clinical studies is the same as that intended for marketing. 
The  following  process  optimisation  studies  were  executed:  granulation  time  optimisation,  lubrication  time 
optimisation, hardness (resistance to crushing) optimisation and a speed challenge study.  
The developed QC dissolution method initially proposed for all strengths in the application, is in line with Ph. 
Eur. requirements. The use of a surfactant is supported by literature and it was satisfactorily justified in line 
with the “Reflection paper on the dissolution specification for generic solid oral immediate release products 
with systemic action.” The composition of the routine QC dissolution medium for the 2.5 mg strength was 
amended by removing the surfactant, as requested during procedure, in view of the good solubility of the 2.5 
mg strength in acetate buffer. The final proposed QC dissolution conditions for all the strengths are also the 
same as those described in the draft Ph. Eur. monograph for rivaroxaban tablets. The discriminatory power of 
the dissolution method has been demonstrated for the 10 mg strength and 20 mg strength. The QC 
dissolution tests proposed are considered satisfactory. 
Bioequivalence studies were performed for the 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg showing bioequivalence between 
the clinical formulations and the proposed commercial formulation. Details on the bioequivalence studies 
conducted can be found in the clinical assessment. 
Comparative dissolution profiles of the 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg Rivaroxaban test product film-coated 
tablets with the biobatches of reference product Xarelto in four dissolution media were provided for all 
strengths. For strengths of 10 mg and 20 mg dissolution profiles were found to be similar as the f2 value is 
above 50.  
Dissimilarity was observed for 2.5 mg tablets, which was, however, found bioequivalent in vivo.  
For 15 mg Rivaroxaban film-coated tablets a biowaiver has been requested in line with the requirements of 
the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (both the 15 mg and the 20 mg strengths are 
manufactured by the same manufacturer using the same manufacturing process, the qualitative composition 
is the same, the composition of the both strengths is quantitatively proportional, the in vitro dissolution 
profile is similar under identical conditions for the additional strengths). Dissolution profiles of test product 
biobatch of Rivaroxaban 20 mg film-coated tablets were compared to test product Rivaroxaban 15 mg film-
coated tablets in four dissolution media and found to be similar as they showed f2 value is above 50; the f2 
was not calculated for the acetate and SLS buffer as dissolution was more than 85% within the first 15 
minutes. Since the rotation speed for the paddle apparatus used in the dissolution testing to support the 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 12/34 
 
  
  
biowaiver was not compliant with the Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence 
(EMEA/CPMP/EWP/QWP/ 1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr), additional dissolution testing data was provided during the 
procedure to address a major objection (MO). Similarity between the 15 mg strength and the proposed 20 
mg biobatch was demonstrated using the paddle the apparatus at 50 rpm, and also testing at the 5 min time 
point, by means of the f2, similarity was demonstrated despite the incomplete release of the active in the 
media. Similarity of the dissolution profiles at pH 1.2 (0.1N HCl) could not be concluded to be similar 
according to the requirements of the guideline as there was too much variability, more than 10% RSD, at the 
second sampling point. As a result, a further clinical MO was raised, which was satisfactorily resolved by 
reanalysing the in vitro data using bootstrapping as resampling method. The results showed that dissolution 
profiles of 20 mg biobatch and 15 mg test batch were found similar, as discussed in the clinical assessment. 
The data provided justify the biowaiver for the 15 mg strength. 
The potential administration of the crushed finished product via gastric tubes as stated in section 6.6 of the 
SmPC was discussed in detail. In vitro studies on nasogastric and gastronomy tubes were carried out to 
demonstrate similarity between the test and the reference product in line with the FDA Draft Guidance on 
Rivaroxaban. The following aspects of the test product were compared against the reference product: particle 
size distribution, sedimentation depth, dose recovery, stability in water and apple sauce for the rivaroxaban 
suspension. Administration by enteral tube was found feasible and the results similar for the test and 
reference products, confirming acceptability of the statement in the SmPC. 
The primary packaging is clear PVC/Aluminium blisters or HDPE bottles fitted either with a white opaque child 
resistant polypropylene closure and induction sealing liner wad or with white opaque continuous thread 
polypropylene screw closure and induction sealing liner wad. The materials comply with EC requirements. The 
choice of the container closure systems has been validated by stability data and they are considered 
adequate for the intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of six main steps: co-sifting of ingredients for dry mixing; wet 
granulation and drying; milling and blending with extra-granular excipients, compression, film-coating and 
packing. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process.  
Process validation for Rivaroxaban 2.5/10/15/20mg film-coated tablets is performed on three commercial scale 
batches per strength. The hold times (for lubricated granules, core tablets and bulk film-coated tablets) was 
supported  by  data  obtained  from  the  validation  batches,  as  discussed  in  the  pharmaceutical  development 
section. It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product 
of  intended  quality  in  a  reproducible  manner.  The  in-process  controls  are  adequate  for  this  type  of 
manufacturing process.  
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: description 
(visual), average weight of tablet (weight balance), identification (HPLC, UV), loss on drying (halogen lamp, 
in-house), dissolution (in-house), uniformity of dosage units (by content uniformity, in house assay with Ph. 
Eur.), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC) and microbial examination (Ph. Eur.). 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 13/34 
 
  
  
 
 
The proposed specification for the finished product is in line with ICH Q6A, where relevant, and it is generally 
acceptable for this type of dosage form. 
Based on a stability study, the polymorphic form does not need to be controlled in the release specification. 
The limits for loss on drying, dissolution and impurities were tightened during the procedure. The limit for 
total impurities was tightened in line with the draft Ph. Eur. rivaroxaban finished product monograph.  
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed using a risk-based 
approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. Based on the risk assessment it can 
be concluded that it is not necessary to include any elemental impurity controls. 
To address a MO, a risk assessment on the potential presence of nitrosamine impurities originating from the 
active substance, excipients, process equipment, cleaning agents and packaging materials was provided. No 
risk was identified by the finished product manufacturer. However, due to the use of nitrocellulose-based 
printing primer and over coat lacquer, supportive testing should be conducted to guarantee that no formation 
of nitrosamines can occur leading to contamination of the finished product. The applicant is recommended to 
provide batch analysis data for 6 pilot scale batches or 3 production scale batches of the finished product 
confirming the absence of nitrosamines prior to commercialisation (REC). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with 
the ICH guidelines. The suitability of the in-house test method for loss on drying has been adequately 
demonstrated. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities 
testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis results for three full scale batches, which are also the stability and validation batches, are 
provided confirming the consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the 
intended product specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data from three full scale batches per strength of finished product stored for up to 12 months under 
long term conditions (25ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40ºC / 75% RH) 
according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of medicinal product are identical to those proposed 
for marketing and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for the same parameters as in the release specifications with the exception of average 
weight of the tablet, identification and uniformity of dosage units, which are not part of the proposed stability 
specification. This is acceptable as these parameters are not affected during storage. The analytical procedures 
used  are  the  same  as  those  used  at  release  and  are  stability  indicating.  No  significant  changes  have  been 
observed and all results comply with the proposed stability testing specification limits.  
As rivaroxaban active substance shows polymorphism, samples of the 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg strength 
were analysed at initial and 6 months stability station in blister and bottle pack stored under accelerated 
(40°C / 75% RH) and long-term conditions (25°C / 60% RH). Observed X-ray diffractograms confirm the 
Rivaroxaban polymorphic form remains stable and unchanged.  
In-use stability testing was carried out for strengths 2.5 mg and 10 mg tablets stored in the HDPE bottles. 
Test samples from the 30-count and 500-count HDPE bottles (with seal removed), stored at 25°C and 60 RH, 
were exposed at study conditions for 15 to 60 seconds daily for 30 days (30-count HDPE bottle) and 90 days 
(500-count HDPE bottle). The testing frequency and protocol are reflective of the expected clinical usage. All 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 14/34 
 
  
  
results were in line with the specification. Hence, the inclusion of in-use shelf life in the SmPC is not deemed 
necessary as practically no changes were detected. 
A forced degradation study was carried out by exposing samples of the 20 mg strength to acid, alkali, oxidative, 
thermal,  UV  and  water  hydrolysis  conditions.  Significant  degradation  was  observed  under  alkali  and  acid 
conditions with the level of total impurities around 6–8%. No degradation was observed in other samples. The 
forced  degradation  study  confirmed  the  stability-indicating  nature  of  the  methods  for  assay  and  related 
substances. 
In addition, samples of the 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg strength were exposed to light as defined in the ICH 
Guideline on Photostability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products. The photostability results indicate 
that the finished product is photostable. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 2 years, without any specific storage conditions as 
stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. No 
other excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The rivaroxaban active substance is documented in an ASMF which has been satisfactorily updated during the 
procedure with the relevant information on genotoxic impurities, to address a MO. Although there is no 
official Ph. Eur. monograph for rivaroxaban, the specification of the active substance includes adequate test 
methods generally in line with the draft monograph, published in Pharmeuropa 30.4. The finished product 
specification, including the QC dissolution test, are aligned with the draft monograph for rivaroxaban tablets 
published in Pharmeuropa 31.2 and are considered adequate. A satisfactory risk assessment on the potential 
presence of nitrosamine impurities was provided in response to a MO. Although no risk was identified, due to 
the use of nitrocellulose-based printing primer and over coat lacquer, the applicant is recommended to 
provide supportive data to confirm that no transformation of nitrosamines can occur into the finished product. 
The requested biowaiver for the 15 mg strength has been adequately substantiated during the procedure 
with data provided to address a MO. 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 15/34 
 
  
  
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented to give 
reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
1.  The applicant is recommended to provide batch analysis data for 6 pilot scale batches or 3 production 
scale batches of the finished product confirming the absence of nitrosamines in the finished product 
prior to commercialisation (REC). 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.4.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.4.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant considered that the introduction of Rivaroxaban Accord manufactured by Accord Healthcare 
S.L.U. is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all rivaroxaban 
containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected 
to be similar. However, from the data submitted and the trend for an overall increase in the sales of 
rivaroxaban containing products the CHMP recommended that the applicant should conduct an ERA in 
accordance with EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 corr.2. 
2.4.2.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical overview is based on published literature data. This is acceptable since rivaroxaban is a well-
known active substance and essential similarity is claimed to the reference product. There are no new 
nonclinical studies performed in support of the proposed application hence the presented Non-clinical 
Overview is considered sufficient for this type of MAA. 
2.4.3.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval of Rivaroxaban Accord from a non-clinical point of view.  
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 16/34 
 
  
  
 
 
The CHMP recommended an ERA in accordance with EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 corr.2. should be conducted 
by the applicant. 
2.5.  Clinical aspects  
2.5.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for tablets containing rivaroxaban. To support the marketing authorisation application 
the applicant conducted 2 bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting conditions and 1 
bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fed conditions. These were the pivotal studies for the 
assessment. 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as 
efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) as 
well as the Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09) have been taken into 
account. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
A request for a waiver of a bioequivalence study for Rivaroxaban Accord 15 mg was submitted by the 
applicant according to the following general requirements [Ref: Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence, Doc. Ref.: CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr**]: 
1. All the strengths i.e. 2.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg of the proposed pharmaceutical products are manufactured by 
the same manufacturer i.e. Intas Pharmaceutical Limited using the same manufacturing process, 
 2. The qualitative composition of Rivaroxaban Accord 2.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg film-coated tablets 
are the same.  
3. The composition of the 15 mg strength is quantitatively proportional to the 20 mg strength, i.e. the ratio 
between the amounts of each excipient to the amount of active substance is the same 
4.The dissolution profiles of 15 mg and 20 mg strengths are similar in four different pHs (Table 2). 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 17/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 2. Comparative dissolution data for Rivaroxaban Accord film-coated tablets 20 mg versus Rivaroxaban 
film-coated tablets 15 mg 
Calculated  f2  was  above  50  for  pH  0.1  N  HCl,  4.5  and  6.8  indicating  comparative  release  pattern  in  those 
dissolution  trials  performed  by  the  applicant.  However,  when  assessing  the  dissolution  profile  in  0.1  N  HCl 
medium at 50 rpm, it was observed that for the dissolution of 15 mg strength, %RSD for 2nd time point (10 
min) is 10.69. According to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence, f2 calculation is applicable 
when RSD or coefficient of variation of any product is less than 20% for the first time point and less than 10% 
from second to last time point. As the f2 calculation is not acceptable for this case, applicant was asked to use 
bootstrapping method to calculate the comparability of dissolution profiles between 20 mg strength and 15 mg 
strength at 0.1 N HCl medium at 50 rpm.  
In acetate buffer pH 4.5 + 0.2% SLS, the f2 factor was below 50. As the similarity results without surfactant 
are more relevant for granting the biowaiver, f2 below 50 in the media with surfactant is acceptable as such. 
As recommended by the CHMP, the applicant calculated comparability of dissolution profiles between 20 mg 
and 15 mg strength in 0.1 N HCl medium at 50 rpm using bootstrapping method. The summarized dissolution 
profile similarity results are as follows: 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 18/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on above results, 20 mg bio batch (Batch no. X07471) and 15 mg test batch (Batch no. X07470) 
dissolution profiles in 0.1 N HCl can be considered as similar.  
5. The pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban is linear up to a 10 mg single dose, while in doses above 10 mg less 
than a proportional increase in exposure was noted after a single dose. The guideline specifies that for the 
drugs with non-linear pharmacokinetics characterized by less than a proportional increase in AUC with 
increasing dose over the therapeutic dose range, bioequivalence should in most cases be established both at 
the highest strength and at the lowest strength. This approach was selected and applies for the extrapolation 
to the 15 mg strength, which is bracketed by the BE studies with 10 mg (BE No. 0977-18) and 20 mg (BE 
No. 725-14) strengths, taking into the account the food recommendation and recommendation of the product 
specific rivaroxaban bioequivalence guideline. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted 3 bioequivalence studies, Studies 0444-17, 0977-18 
and 725-14. 
Table 3. Tabular overview of clinical studies  
2.5.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study 0444-17: An open label, balanced, randomized, two-treatment, two-sequence, two-period, single oral 
dose, crossover bioequivalence study of two products of Rivaroxaban tablets 2.5 mg in normal, healthy, 
adult, human subjects (male) under fasting conditions.  
Methods 
Study design  
This was a comparative, randomised, balanced, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, two-way 
crossover open label bioequivalence study on normal, healthy, adult volunteers with a single dose 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 19/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
administration under fasting conditions. In each study period, subjects received a single oral dose of 2.5 mg 
of a rivaroxaban tablet (test or reference) after an overnight fast of at least 10 hours. The tablet was 
swallowed whole without chewing or crushing. A washout period of 5 days was maintained between the 
successive dosing days. 
Plasma samples of subjects were assayed for parent compound rivaroxaban using an LC-MS/MS method. 
This was an open label study, hence blinding was not done. However, the analysts performing the assay of 
the drug in plasma were unaware of the sequence of administration of the Reference Product-R and Test 
Product-T to the individual subjects. 
Clinical Study Dates 
Study initiation date: 05 September 2018 
Study completion date: 14 September 2018 
Test and reference products  
Rivaroxaban Accord 2.5 mg tablets manufactured by Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited, Matoda, India (batch 
No.X06941; exp. Date 03/2020) has been compared to Xarelto 2.5 mg tablets manufactured by Bayer AG 
(Batch No: BXHJSF1, exp. date 06/2019). 
Population studied 
As per protocol, 56, normal, healthy, adult, human subjects (male) who complied with all the inclusion 
criteria (non-smoking, between 18 and 45 years of age and having a Body Mass Index (BMI) between 18.5 
and 30.0) and none of the exclusion criteria were the target population in the study No. 0444-17. 
Three (03) subjects discontinued from the study on their own accord in Period-II. Information regarding 
missing samples has been submitted. Plasma samples of withdrawn Subjects were analysed as per protocol 
requirement. 
Analytical methods   
The plasma samples of subjects were analysed using a validated LC-MS/MS method for rivaroxaban, with 
concentrations ranging from 0.202 ng/mL to 125.198 ng/mL, to determine the concentrations of Rivaroxaban 
in the samples of all analysed subjects.  
A detailed description of the operative procedures and the validation process were provided. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables 
Employing the estimated concentration vs. time profiles of rivaroxaban, the following pharmacokinetic 
parameters were calculated: 
Primary PK Parameters: Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 20/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary PK Parameters: Tmax, AUC_%Extrap_obs, λz and T1/2 
Statistical methods   
Descriptive statistics was calculated and reported for the pharmacokinetic parameters of rivaroxaban. 
ANOVA, power and ratio analysis for ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ are 
calculated and reported for Rivaroxaban. Using two-one sided tests for bioequivalence, 90% confidence 
intervals for the ratio of the geometric least squares means between drug formulations are calculated for ln-
transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ for rivaroxaban. 
Criteria for conclusion of bioequivalence: 
The 90% confidence intervals for the difference of means of ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters 
Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ for rivaroxaban had to fall within the acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00% to 
conclude the test product was bioequivalent to the reference product under fasting conditions.   
Results 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of rivaroxaban for Test Product-T and Reference Product-R are summarized 
in Table 4. 
Table 4. Pharmacokinetic parameters for rivaroxaban (non-transformed values) in Study 0444-17 
The relative bioavailability analyses (i.e. geometric least squares means, ratio, 90% confidence interval, intra 
subject CV and power) of Test Product-T vs. Reference Product-R for rivaroxaban are summarized in Table 
5. 
Table 5: Pharmacokinetic parameters for rivaroxaban (ln-transformed values) in Study 0444-17 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 21/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety data 
Five (05) AEs were reported by four (04) subjects during the conduct of the study. Two (02) AEs were 
reported in Period-I, two (02) in Period-II and one (01) at post-study safety assessment. All the AEs were 
mild in nature. The subjects were followed up until the resolution of their AEs. The outcome of the one AE 
was unknown for one subject as he did not report for his post-study safety assessment and was considered 
as lost to follow-up. The causality assessment was judged as possible for three (03) AEs and as not related 
for two (02) AEs. There were no deaths, serious or significant AEs reported during the conduct of the study.  
Study 0977-18: An open label, balanced, randomized, two-treatment, two-sequence, two-period, single oral 
dose, crossover bioequivalence study of two products of Rivaroxaban tablets 10 mg in normal, healthy, adult, 
human subjects (male) under fasting conditions.  
Methods 
Study design  
Study design was similar to that of Study 0444-17, but patients were split in two Groups (I and II) and the 
washout period between the dosing days of two consecutive periods was 13 days for Group I and 16 days for 
Group II. 
Clinical Study Dates 
Study initiation date: 01 April 2019 (Group I) 
         17 April 2019 (Group II)   
Study completion date: 17 April 2019 (Group I) 
  06 May 2019 (Group II) 
Test and reference products  
Rivaroxaban Accord 2.5 mg tablets manufactured by Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited, Matoda, India (batch 
No.X06944; exp. Date 03/2020) has been compared to Xarelto 2.5 mg tablets manufactured by Bayer AG 
(Batch No: BXHTAJ2, exp. date 05/2020). 
Population studied 
As per protocol, 80, normal, healthy, adult, human subjects (male) who complied with all the inclusion 
criteria (non-smoking, between 18 and 45 years of age and having a Body Mass Index (BMI) between 18.5 
and 30.0) and none of the exclusion criteria were the target population in the study No.0977-18. 
Two (02) subjects did not complete the study. One discontinued from the study on his own accord in Period-
II, and the other was withdrawn from the study on the grounds of emesis in Period-II. Plasma samples of 
both withdrawn Subject were also analysed as per protocol requirement. 
Analytical methods   
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 22/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The plasma samples of subjects were analysed using a validated LC-MS/MS method for rivaroxaban, with 
concentrations ranging from 1.068 ng/mL to 601.353 ng/mL, to determine the concentrations of Rivaroxaban 
in the samples of all analysed subjects.  
A detailed description of the operative procedures and the validation process were provided. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables, Statistical methods 
These were the same as in Study 0444-17.  
Results 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of rivaroxaban for Test Product-T and Reference Product-R are summarized 
in Table 6. 
Table 6. Pharmacokinetic parameters for rivaroxaban (non-transformed values) in Study 0977-18  
The relative bioavailability analyses (i.e. geometric least squares means, ratio, 90% confidence interval, intra 
subject CV and power) of Test Product-T vs. Reference Product-R for rivaroxaban are summarized in Table 
7. 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 23/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Pharmacokinetic parameters for rivaroxaban (ln-transformed values) in Study 0977-18 
Safety data 
Two (02) AEs were reported by two (02) subjects during the conduct of the study. One (01) AE was reported 
in Period-II (Vomiting) and one (01) AE was reported during the post-study safety assessment (Alanine 
aminotransferase increased). Both the AEs were reported in the subjects after administration of Test Product-
T. Both the AEs were mild in nature. One subject was followed up until the resolution of his AE. The outcome 
of the one AE was unknown for one subject as he did not report for his post-study safety assessment and 
was considered as lost to follow-up. The causality assessment was judged as possible for both the AEs. There 
were no deaths, serious or significant AEs reported during the conduct of the study.  
Study 725-14: An open label, balanced, randomized, two-treatment, two-sequence, two-period, single oral 
dose, crossover bioequivalence study of two products of Rivaroxaban tablets 20 mg in normal, healthy, adult, 
human subjects (male) under fed conditions.  
Methods 
Study design  
This was a comparative, randomised, balanced, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, two-way 
crossover open label bioequivalence study on normal, healthy, adult volunteers with a single dose 
administration under fed conditions. In each study period, subjects received a single oral dose of 20mg of a 
rivaroxaban tablet (test or reference) after high fat high calorie vegetarian breakfast. The tablet was 
swallowed whole without chewing or crushing. A washout period of 5 days was maintained between the 
successive dosing days. 
Plasma samples of subjects were assayed for parent compound rivaroxaban using an LC-MS/MS method. 
This was an open label study hence blinding was not done. However, the analysts performing the assay of the 
drug in plasma were unaware of the sequence of administration of the Reference Product-R and Test Product-
T to the individual subjects. 
Clinical Study Dates 
Study initiation date: 11 October 2018 
Study completion date: 20 October 2018 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 24/34 
 
  
  
 
 
Test and reference products  
Rivaroxaban Accord 20 mg tablets manufactured by Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited, Matoda, India (batch 
No.X07471; exp. Date 03/2020) has been compared to Xarelto 20 mg tablets manufactured by Bayer AG 
(Batch No: BXHLCG1, exp. date 03/2020). 
Population studied 
As per protocol, 52, normal, healthy, adult, human subjects (male) who complied with all the inclusion 
criteria (non-smoking, between 18 and 45 years of age and having a Body Mass Index (BMI) between 18.5 
and 30.0) and none of the exclusion criteria were the target population in the study No. 0444-17. 
Four (04) subjects discontinued from the study due to medical reasons in Period-II. One additional subject 
discontinued from the study form his own accord. Information regarding missing samples has been 
submitted. Plasma samples of withdrawn Subjects were analysed as per protocol requirement. 
Analytical methods 
The plasma samples of subjects were analysed using a validated LC-MS/MS method for rivaroxaban, with 
concentrations ranging from 1.062 ng/mL to 602.416 ng/mL, to determine the concentrations of Rivaroxaban 
in the samples of all analysed subjects.  
A detailed description of the operative procedures and the validation process were provided. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables, Statistical methods 
These were the same as in Study 0444-17.  
Results 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of rivaroxaban for Test Product-T and Reference Product-R are summarized 
in Table 8.  
Table 8. Pharmacokinetic parameters for rivaroxaban (non-transformed values) in Study 725-14 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 25/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
The relative bioavailability analyses (i.e. geometric least squares means, ratio, 90% confidence interval, intra 
subject CV and power) of Test Product-T vs. Reference Product-R for rivaroxaban are summarized in Table 
9. 
Table 9: Pharmacokinetic parameters for rivaroxaban (ln-transformed values) in Study 725-14 
Safety data 
Four (04) adverse events (AEs) were reported by three (03) subjects during the conduct of the study. One 
(01) AE was reported in Period-I (Pyrexia) and three (03) AEs were reported in Period-II (Pyrexia, Diarrhoea 
and Activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged) of the study. All AEs were reported in the subjects after 
administration of Test Product-T. All AEs were mild in nature and the subjects were followed up until AE 
resolution. The causality assessment was judged as probable/likely for one (01) AEs and as unlikely for three 
(03) AEs. There were no deaths or serious AEs reported during the conduct of the study.  
2.5.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.5.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.5.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
In support of this application, review of the published literature and three bioequivalence studies were 
submitted claiming essential similarity to the reference medicinal product Xarelto.   
Submitted bioequivalence studies were randomised, single dose, two treatment, two period, two-way 
crossover open label studies comparing two formulations of rivaroxaban in healthy adults. Studies with 2.5 
mg strengths and 10 mg strengths were done in fasted state, study with 20 mg strength was done under fed 
conditions. The studies were acceptable and in line with the existing EMA guidelines. In all three studies, 
statistical analysis demonstrated bioequivalence between test product (Rivaroxaban Accord 2.5 mg, 10 mg 
and 20 mg) and reference product (Xarelto). Submitted studies were claimed to be carried out according to 
the GCP principles by applicant.  
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 26/34 
 
  
  
 
 
With regard to the used bioanalytical methods for the three studies, the provided information was adequately 
discussed and justified by the applicant. 
A biowaiver was requested for the 15 mg strength. The applicant submitted dissolution profiles between 15 
mg strength and 20 mg strength by using paddle apparatus at 50 RPM speed (as requested by the CHMP). In 
0.1 N HCl medium at this paddle apparatus speed, the dissolution of 15 mg strength, %RSD for 2nd time 
point (10 min) was 10.69. Thus, the applicant was asked to use bootstrapping to calculate the comparability 
of dissolution profiles between 20 mg strength and 15 mg strength at 0.1 N HCl medium at 50 rpm. Based on 
the results presented by the applicant, the dissolution profiles of the two strengths in 0.1 N HCl medium can 
be considered as similar.  
2.5.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence studies Rivaroxaban Accord 2.5mg, 10 and 20mg film coated tablets 
are considered bioequivalent with Xarelto 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg film coated tablets.  
The results of study 725-14 with 20 mg rivaroxaban tablets can be extrapolated to the 15 mg rivaroxaban 
tablets according to conditions in the Guidelines. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Important identified risks 
•  Haemorrhage 
Important potential risks 
•  Embryo-fetal toxicity 
Missing information 
• 
• 
Patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl < 30 mL/min) 
Patients receiving concomitant systemic inhibitors of CYP 3A4 
or P-gp other than azole antimycotics (e.g. ketoconazole) and 
HIV-protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir) 
•  Remedial pro-coagulant therapy for excessive haemorrhage 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Pregnant or breast-feeding women 
Patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) and a prosthetic heart 
valve 
Long-term therapy with rivaroxaban in treatment of DVT, PE, 
SPAF and ACS in real-life setting 
Patients with significant liver diseases (severe hepatic 
impairment/Child Pugh C) 
Patients < 18 years 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 27/34 
 
  
  
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Not applicable. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Important Identified Risks 
Haemorrhage 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section  4.2,  4.3,  4.4,  4.6,  4.8,  4.9  and  5.3  of  Rivaroxaban  SmPC  and 
corresponding section of PIL has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  Educational material for prescribers 
• 
Patient alert cards 
Important Potential Risks 
Embryo-fetal toxicity  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.3, 4.6, and 5.3 of Rivaroxaban SmPC and corresponding section of PIL 
has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 of Rivaroxaban SmPC and corresponding section of PIL 
has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Page 28/34 
Missing 
information 
Patients with severe 
renal impairment 
(CrCl < 30 mL/min) 
Patients receiving 
concomitant 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
systemic inhibitors 
of CYP 3A4 or P-gp 
other than azole 
antimycotics (e.g. 
ketoconazole) and 
HIV-protease 
inhibitors (e.g. 
ritonavir) 
Remedial pro-
coagulant therapy 
for excessive 
haemorrhage 
Pregnant or breast-
feeding women 
Patients with atrial 
fibrillation (AF) and 
a prosthetic heart 
valve 
Long-term therapy 
with rivaroxaban in 
treatment of DVT, 
PE, SPAF and ACS in 
real-life setting 
Section 4.5 of Rivaroxaban SmPC and corresponding section of PIL has information 
on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.9 of Rivaroxaban SmPC and corresponding section of PIL has information 
on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.3, 4.6 and 5.3 of Rivaroxaban SmPC and corresponding section of PIL 
has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.4 of Rivaroxaban SmPC and corresponding section of PIL has information 
on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 29/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Patients with 
significant liver 
diseases (severe 
hepatic 
impairment/Child 
Pugh C) 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2 of Rivaroxaban SmPC and corresponding section of PIL 
has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Patients < 18 years 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.2 and 5.2 of Rivaroxaban SmPC has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Limited pack sizes 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.3 is acceptable.  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 30/34 
 
  
  
 
 
 
been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable for the following reasons: 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the basis of 
a bridging report making reference to Xarelto 2.5/10/15/20 mg film-coated tablets and Solifenacin succinate 
5/10 mg film-coated tablets. The bridging report submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of rivaroxaban tablets. The reference product Xarelto is indicated 
for: 
2.5 mg 
In combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone or with ASA plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine, for the 
prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients after an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) with 
elevated cardiac biomarkers. 
In combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients 
with coronary artery disease (CAD) or symptomatic peripheral artery disease (PAD) at high risk of ischaemic 
events. 
10 mg 
Prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT 
and PE in adults.  
15 and 20 mg 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with one or 
more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes mellitus, prior 
stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT 
and PE in adults. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence studies form the pivotal basis with a two-period, two-treatment cross-over bioequivalence 
study in healthy, adult subjects under fasting or fed conditions design. The study designs were considered 
adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European 
requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were 
adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 31/34 
 
  
  
 
 
adequate. 
The test formulation of Rivaroxaban Accord met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with Xarelto. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, 
AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 80.00 to 
125.00%]. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Rivaroxaban Accord is favourable in the following indications: 
Rivaroxaban Accord 2.5 mg 
Co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone or with ASA plus ticlopidine, for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients after an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) with elevated cardiac 
biomarkers. 
Co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult 
patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) or symptomatic peripheral artery disease (PAD) at high risk of 
ischaemic events. 
Rivaroxaban Accord 10 mg 
Prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT 
and PE in adults.  
Rivaroxaban Accord 15 and 20 mg 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with one or 
more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes mellitus, prior 
stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent DVT 
and PE in adults. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 32/34 
 
  
  
 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The MAH shall provide an educational pack prior to launch, targeting all physicians who are expected to 
prescribe/use Rivaroxaban Accord. The educational pack is aimed at increasing awareness about the potential 
risk of bleeding during treatment with Rivaroxaban Accord and providing guidance on how to manage that 
risk. The physician educational pack should contain: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics  
•  Prescriber Guide  
•  Patient Alert Cards [Text included in Annex III] 
The MAH must agree the content and format of the Prescriber Guide together with a communication plan, 
with the national competent authority in each Member State prior to distribution of the educational pack in 
their territory. The Prescriber Guide should contain the following key safety messages: 
•  Details of populations potentially at higher risk of bleeding  
•  Recommendations for dose reduction in at risk populations  
•  Guidance regarding switching from or to rivaroxaban treatment  
•  The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food  
•  Management of overdose situations  
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 33/34 
 
  
  
•  The use of coagulation tests and their interpretation  
•  That all patients should be counselled about:  
 Signs or symptoms of bleeding and when to seek attention from a health care provider.  
 Importance of treatment compliance  
 The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food  
 Necessity to carry the Patient Alert Card that is included in each pack, with them at all times  
 The need to inform Health Care Professionals that they are taking Rivaroxaban Accord if they need 
to have any surgery or invasive procedure.  
The MAH shall also provide a Patient Alert Card in each medicine pack, the text of which is included in Annex 
III. 
Assessment report  
EMA/550657/2020 
Page 34/34 
 
  
  
 
 
