24 September 2015 
EMA/816769/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: rivastigmine 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002654/201501 
Period covered by the PSUR:  1 February 2014 – 31 January 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for rivastigmine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows: 
• 
Cardiac arrhythmia 
Cardiac arrhythmia / bradycardia are listed adverse reactions for rivastigmine. 
During the reporting period, 2 cases of torsade de pointe have been reported. Of these 2 cases of 
torsade de pointes with positive dechallenge after dose reduction or discontinuation of rivastigmine, 
the causal role of rivastigmine due to its bradycardia-related adverse event could not be ruled out 
despite the confounding factors in these cases (venlafaxine, tiapride). 
Rivastigmine is known to induce bradycardia which constitutes a risk factor of QT prolongation and 
post-marketing cases of cardiac arrhythmia have been reported with the use of rivastigmine, especially 
in patients with other risk factors for QTc prolongation / Torsade de pointes (TdP)  (concomitant 
treatments known to induce TdP, relevant cardiac disorders). 
• 
Nightmares 
During the reporting period 35 cases of nightmares were reported and 324 cumulatively (124 with oral 
formulations, 176 with patch formulations, 16 with unknown formulation and 4 with oral plus patch 
formulation). 26 relevant cases with positive dechallenge after discontinuation or dose reduction or 
positive rechallenge were identified. When documented the temporal relationship between the event 
onset and the start of rivastigmine indicates a causal relationship. 
Due to the scientific literature, the significant proportional reporting ratio (PRR) for nightmares in 
EudraVigilance, data from clinical trials with oral formulation and post-marketing cases with both 
formulations, the PRAC agreed to add “nightmares” as adverse reaction in section 4.8 of the SmPC 
with frequency “not known” for the patch formulation and frequency “common” for oral formulations of 
rivastigmine-containing medicines. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding cardiac arrhythmia and nightmares, the PRAC considered 
that changes to the product information were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for rivastigmine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal products containing rivastigmine is favourable subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisations should be varied. 
EMA/816769/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
