ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Riximyo 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
Riximyo 500 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Riximyo 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
Each mL contains 10 mg of rituximab.
Each 10 mL vial contains 100 mg of rituximab.
Riximyo 500 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
Each mL contains 10 mg of rituximab.
Each 50 mL vial contains 500 mg of rituximab.
Rituximab is a genetically engineered chimeric mouse/human monoclonal antibody representing a 
glycosylated immunoglobulin with human IgG1 constant regions and murine light-chain and 
heavy-chain variable region sequences. The antibody is produced by mammalian (Chinese hamster 
ovary) cell suspension culture and purified by affinity chromatography and ion exchange, including 
specific viral inactivation and removal procedures.
Excipient with known effect
Each 10 mL vial contains 2.3 mmol (52.6 mg) sodium.
Each 50 mL vial contains 11.5 mmol (263.2 mg) sodium.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate).
Clear, colourless to slightly yellowish liquid with pH of 6.3 – 6.7 and osmolality of ≥ 240 mOsm/kg.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Riximyo is indicated in adults for the following indications:
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL)
Riximyo is indicated for the treatment of previously untreated adult patients with stage III-IV 
follicular lymphoma in combination with chemotherapy.
Riximyo maintenance therapy is indicated for the treatment of adult follicular lymphoma patients 
responding to induction therapy.
Riximyo monotherapy is indicated for treatment of adult patients with stage III-IV follicular 
lymphoma who are chemoresistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy.
2
Riximyo is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with CD20 positive diffuse large B cell non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma in combination with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, 
prednisolone) chemotherapy.
Riximyo in combination with chemotherapy is indicated for the treatment of paediatric patients (aged 
≥ 6 months to < 18 years old) with previously untreated advanced stage CD20 positive diffuse large B-
cell lymphoma (DLBCL), Burkitt lymphoma (BL)/Burkitt leukaemia (mature B-cell acute leukaemia) 
(BAL) or Burkitt-like lymphoma (BLL).
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Riximyo in combination with chemotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with previously 
untreated and relapsed/refractory CLL. Only limited data are available on efficacy and safety for 
patients previously treated with monoclonal antibodies including rituximab or patients refractory to 
previous rituximab plus chemotherapy.
See section 5.1 for further information.
Rheumatoid arthritis
Riximyo in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with severe 
active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to other 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARD) including one or more tumour necrosis factor 
(TNF) inhibitor therapies.
Rituximab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and 
to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate.
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Riximyo, in combination with glucocorticoids, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
severe, active GPA (Wegener’s) and MPA.
Riximyo, in combination with glucocorticoids, is indicated for the induction of remission in paediatric 
patients (aged ≥ 2 to < 18 years old) with severe, active GPA (Wegener’s) and MPA.
Pemphigus vulgaris (PV)
Riximyo is indicated for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe PV.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Riximyo should be administered under the close supervision of an experienced healthcare 
professional, and in an environment where full resuscitation facilities are immediately available (see 
section 4.4).
Premedication and prophylactic medications
Premedication consisting of an anti-pyretic and an antihistaminic, e.g. paracetamol and 
diphenhydramine, should always be given before each administration of Riximyo.
In adult patients with NHL and CLL, premedication with glucocorticoids should be considered if 
Riximyo is not given in combination with glucocorticoid-containing chemotherapy. 
For adult NHL and CLL patients administered Riximyo according to the 90-minute infusion rate, 
premedication with glucocorticoids should be considered if Riximyo is not given in combination with 
glucocorticoid-containing chemotherapy.
3
In paediatric patients with NHL, premedication with paracetamol and H1 antihistamine (= 
diphenhydramine or equivalent) should be administered 30 to 60 minutes before the start of the 
infusion of Riximyo. In addition, prednisone should be given as indicated in Table 1.
Prophylaxis with adequate hydration and administration of uricostatics starting 48 hours prior to start 
of therapy is recommended for CLL patients to reduce the risk of tumour lysis syndrome. For CLL 
patients whose lymphocyte counts are > 25 x 109/L, it is recommended to administer 
prednisone/prednisolone 100 mg intravenous shortly before infusion with Riximyo to decrease the rate 
and severity of acute infusion reactions and/or cytokine release syndrome.
In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, GPA or MPA or PV, premedication with 100 mg intravenous 
methylprednisolone should be completed 30 minutes prior to each infusion of Riximyo to decrease the 
incidence and severity of infusion related reactions (IRRs).
In adult patients with GPA or MPA methylprednisolone given intravenously for 1 to 3 days at a dose 
of 1,000 mg per day is recommended prior to the first infusion of Riximyo (the last dose of 
methylprednisolone may be given on the same day as the first infusion of Riximyo). This should be 
followed by oral prednisone 1 mg/kg/day (not to exceed 80 mg/day, and tapered as rapidly as possible 
based on clinical need) during and after the 4 week induction course of Riximyo treatment.
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) prophylaxis is recommended for adult patients with 
GPA/MPA or PV during and following Riximyo treatment, as appropriate according to local clinical 
practice guidelines.
Paediatric population 
In paediatric patients with GPA or MPA, prior to the first Riximyo intravenous infusion, 
methylprednisolone should be given intravenously for three daily doses of 30 mg/kg/day (not to 
exceed 1 g/day) to treat severe vasculitis symptoms. Up to three additional daily doses of 30 mg/kg 
intavenous methylprednisolone can be given prior to the first Riximyo infusion.
Following completion of intravenous methylprednisolone administration, patients should receive oral 
prednisone 1 mg/kg/day (not to exceed 60 mg/day) and tapered as rapidly as possible per clinical need 
(see section 5.1).
PJP prophylaxis is recommended for paediatric patients with GPA or MPA during and following 
Riximyo treatment, as appropriate.
Posology
It is important to check the medicinal product labels to ensure that the appropriate formulation is being 
given to the patient, as prescribed.
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL)
Follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
Combination therapy
The recommended dose of Riximyo in combination with chemotherapy for induction treatment of 
previously untreated or relapsed/refractory patients with follicular lymphoma is: 375 mg/m2 body 
surface area per cycle, for up to 8 cycles.
Riximyo should be administered on Day 1 of each chemotherapy cycle, after intravenous 
administration of the glucocorticoid component of the chemotherapy if applicable.
4
Maintenance therapy
•
Previously untreated follicular lymphoma
The recommended dose of Riximyo used as a maintenance treatment for patients with previously 
untreated follicular lymphoma who have responded to induction treatment is: 375 mg/m2 body surface 
area once every 2 months (starting 2 months after the last dose of induction therapy) until disease 
progression or for a maximum period of two years (12 infusions in total).
•
Relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma
The recommended dose of Riximyo used as a maintenance treatment for patients with 
relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma who have responded to induction treatment is: 375 mg/m2 
body surface area once every 3 months (starting 3 months after the last dose of induction therapy) until 
disease progression or for a maximum period of two years (8 infusions in total).
Monotherapy
•
Relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma
The recommended dose of Riximyo monotherapy used as induction treatment for adult patients with 
stage III-IV follicular lymphoma who are chemoresistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse 
after chemotherapy is: 375 mg/m2 body surface area, administered as an intravenous infusion once 
weekly for four weeks.
For retreatment with Riximyo monotherapy for patients who have responded to previous treatment 
with rituximab monotherapy for relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma, the recommended dose is: 
375 mg/m2 body surface area, administered as an intravenous infusion once weekly for four weeks 
(see section 5.1).
Adult Diffuse large B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
Riximyo should be used in combination with CHOP chemotherapy. The recommended dose is 
375 mg/m2 body surface area, administered on Day 1 of each chemotherapy cycle for 8 cycles after 
intravenous infusion of the glucocorticoid component of CHOP. Safety and efficacy of rituximab have 
not been established in combination with other chemotherapies in diffuse large B cell NHL.
Dose adjustments during treatment
No dose reductions of Riximyo are recommended. When Riximyo is given in combination with 
chemotherapy, standard dose reductions for the chemotherapeutic medicinal products should be 
applied.
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
The recommended dose of Riximyo in combination with chemotherapy for previously untreated and 
relapsed/refractory patients is 375 mg/m2 body surface area administered on day 0 of the first 
treatment cycle followed by 500 mg/m2 body surface area administered on day  1 of each subsequent 
cycle for 6 cycles in total. The chemotherapy should be given after Riximyo infusion.
Rheumatoid arthritis
Patients treated with Riximyo must be given the patient alert card with each infusion.
A course of Riximyo consists of two 1,000 mg intravenous infusions. The recommended dose of 
Riximyo is 1,000 mg by intravenous infusion followed by a second 1,000 mg intravenous infusion two 
weeks later.
The need for further courses should be evaluated 24 weeks following the previous course. Retreatment 
should be given at that time if residual disease activity remains, otherwise retreatment should be 
delayed until disease activity returns.
5
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 16 to 24 weeks of an initial 
treatment course. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in patients who show no 
evidence of therapeutic benefit within this time period.
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Patients treated with Riximyo must be given the patient alert card with each infusion.
Adult induction of remission
The recommended dose of Riximyo for induction of remission therapy in adult patients with GPA and 
MPA is 375 mg/m2 body surface area, administered as an intravenous infusion once weekly for 
4 weeks (four infusions in total).
Adult maintenance treatment
Following induction of remission with Riximyo, maintenance treatment in adult patients with GPA 
and MPA should be initiated no sooner than 16 weeks after the last rituximab infusion.
Following induction of remission with other standard of care immunosuppressants, Riximyo 
maintenance treatment should be initiated during the 4 week period that follows disease remission. 
Riximyo should be administered as two 500 mg intravenous infusions separated by two weeks, 
followed by a 500 mg intravenous infusion every 6 months thereafter. Patients should receive Riximyo 
for at least 24 months after achievement of remission (absence of clinical signs and symptoms). For 
patients who may be at higher risk for relapse, physicians should consider a longer duration of 
Riximyo maintenance therapy, up to 5 years.
Pemphigus vulgaris (PV)
Patients treated with Riximyo must be given the patient alert card with each infusion.
The recommended dose of Riximyo for the treatment of PV is 1000 mg administered as an intravenous 
infusion followed two weeks later by a second 1000 mg intravenous infusion in combination with a 
tapering course of glucocorticoids.
Maintenance treatment
A maintenance infusion of 500 mg intravenously should be administered at months 12 and 18, and 
then every 6 months thereafter if needed, based on clinical evaluation.
Treatment of relapse
In the event of relapse, patients may receive 1000 mg intravenously. The healthcare provider should 
also consider resuming or increasing the patient’s glucocorticoid dose based on clinical evaluation. 
Subsequent infusions may be administered no sooner than 16 weeks following the previous infusion.
Special populations
Paediatric population
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL)
In paediatric patients from ≥ 6 months to < 18 years of age with previously untreated, advanced stage 
CD20 positive DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL, Riximyo should be used in combination with systemic 
Lymphome Malin B (LMB) chemotherapy (see Tables 1 and 2). The recommended dose of Riximyo 
is 375 mg/m2 BSA, administered as an intravenous infusion. No Riximyo dose adjustments, other than 
by BSA, are required.
6
 
The safety and efficacy of rituximab paediatric patients ≥ 6 months to < 18 years of age has not been 
established in indications other than previously untreated advanced stage CD20 positive 
DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL. Only limited data are available for patients under 3 years of age. See 
section 5.1 for further information.
Riximyo should not be used in paediatric patients from birth to < 6 months of age with CD20 positive 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (see section 5.1)
Table 1
Posology of rituximab administration for NHL paediatric patients
Cycle
Prephase (COP)
Induction course 1 
(COPDAM1)
Day of treatment
No rituximab given
Day -2
(corresponding to day 6 
of the prephase)
1st rituximab infusion
Day 1
2nd rituximab infusion
Induction course 2 
(COPDAM2)
Day -2
3rd rituximab infusion
Consolidation 
course 1 
(CYM/CYVE)
Consolidation 
course 2 
(CYM/CYVE)
Maintenance course 
1 (M1)
Maintenance course 
2 (M2)
Day 1
4th rituximab infusion
Day 1
5th rituximab infusion
Day 1
6th rituximab infusion
Day 25 to 28 of
consolidation course 2 
(CYVE)
No rituximab given
Day 28 of maintenance
course 1 (M1)
No rituximab given
Administration details
-
During the 1st induction course, prednisone is 
given as part of the chemotherapy course, and 
should be administered prior to rituximab.
Rituximab will be given 48 hours after the first
infusion of rituximab.
In the 2nd induction course, prednisone is not given 
at the time of rituximab administration.
Rituximab will be given 48 hours after the third
infusion of rituximab.
Prednisone is not given at the time of rituximab 
administration.
Prednisone is not given at the time of rituximab 
administration.
Starts when peripheral counts have recovered from 
consolidation course 2 (CYVE) with ANC>
1.0 x 109/l and platelets > 100 x 109/l
-
ANC = Absolute Neutrophil Count; COP = Cyclophosphamide, Vincristine, Prednisone; COPDAM = 
Cyclophosphamide, Vincristine, Prednisolone, Doxorubicin, Methotrexate; CYM = CYtarabine (Aracytine, 
Ara-C), Methotrexate; CYVE = CYtarabine (Aracytine, Ara-C), VEposide (VP16)
Table 2
Treatment Plan for NHL paediatric patients: Concomitant chemotherapy with 
rituximab 
Treatment 
plan
Group B
Patient staging
Administration details
Stage III with high LDH level (> N x 
2),
Stage IV CNS negative
Prephase followed by 4 courses:
2 induction courses (COPADM) with 
HDMTX 3 g/m2 and 2 consolidation 
courses (CYM)
7
Treatment 
plan
Group C
Patient staging
Administration details
Group C1:
B- AL CNS negative, Stage IV & BAL 
CNS positive and CSF negative
Group C3:
BAL CSF positive, Stage IV CSF 
positive
Prephase followed by 6 courses:
2 induction courses (COPADM) with 
HDMTX 8 g/m², 2 consolidation courses 
(CYVE) and 2 maintenance courses (M1 
and M2)
Consecutive courses should be given as soon as blood count recovery and patient’s condition allows
except for the maintenance courses which are given at 28 day intervals
BAL = Burkitt leukaemia (mature B-cell acute leukaemia); CSF = Cerebrospinal Fluid; CNS = Central 
Nervous System; HDMTX = High-dose Methotrexate; LDH = Lactic Acid Dehydrogenase
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Induction of remission
The recommended dose of Riximyo for induction of remission therapy in paediatric patients with 
severe, active GPA or MPA is 375 mg/m2 BSA, administered as an intravenous infusion once weekly 
for 4 weeks. 
The safety and efficacy of Riximyo in paediatric patients (≥ 2 to < 18 years of age) has not been 
established in indications other than severe, active GPA or MPA. 
Riximyo should not be used in paediatric patients less than 2 years of age with severe, active GPA or 
MPA as there is a possibility of an inadequate immune response towards childhood vaccinations 
against common, vaccine preventable childhood diseases (e.g. measles, mumps, rubella, and 
poliomyelitis) (see section 5.1).
Elderly
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients (aged > 65 years).
Method of administration
Riximyo is for intravenous use. The prepared Riximyo solution should be administered as an 
intravenous infusion through a dedicated line. It should not be administered as an intravenous push or 
bolus.
Patients should be closely monitored for the onset of cytokine release syndrome (see section 4.4). 
Patients who develop evidence of severe reactions, especially severe dyspnoea, bronchospasm or 
hypoxia should have the infusion interrupted immediately. Patients with NHL should then be 
evaluated for evidence of tumour lysis syndrome including appropriate laboratory tests and, for 
pulmonary infiltration, with a chest X-ray. In all patients, the infusion should not be restarted until 
complete resolution of all symptoms, and normalisation of laboratory values and chest X-ray findings. 
At this time, the infusion can be initially resumed at not more than one-half the previous rate. If the 
same severe adverse reactions occur for a second time, the decision to stop the treatment should be 
seriously considered on a case by case basis.
Mild or moderate infusion-related reactions (IRRs) (section 4.8) usually respond to a reduction in the 
rate of infusion. The infusion rate may be increased upon improvement of symptoms.
First infusion
The recommended initial rate for infusion is 50 mg/h; after the first 30 minutes, it can be escalated in 
50 mg/h increments every 30 minutes, to a maximum of 400 mg/h.
8
Subsequent infusions
All indications
Subsequent doses of Riximyo can be infused at an initial rate of 100 mg/h, and increased by 100 mg/h 
increments at 30 minute intervals, to a maximum of 400 mg/h.
Paediatric patients – non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
First infusion
The recommended initial rate for infusion is 0.5 mg/kg/h (maximum 50 mg/h); it can be escalated by 
0.5 mg/kg/h every 30 minutes if there is no hypersensitivity or infusion-related reactions, to a 
maximum of 400 mg/h. 
Subsequent infusions
Subsequent doses of Riximyo can be infused at an initial rate of 1 mg/kg/h (maximum 50 mg/h); it can 
be increased by 1 mg/kg/h every 30 minutes to a maximum of 400 mg/h.
Adult patients - Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) and Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) only: 
If patients did not experience a Grade 3 or 4 infusion-related adverse event during Cycle 1, a 90-
minute infusion can be administered in Cycle 2 with a glucocorticoid-containing chemotherapy 
regimen. Initiate at a rate of 20% of the total dose given in the first 30 minutes and the remaining 80% 
of the total dose given over the next 60 minutes. If the 90-minute infusion is tolerated in Cycle 2, the 
same rate can be used when administering the remainder of the treatment regimen (through Cycle 6 or 
8).
Patients who have clinically significant cardiovascular disease, including arrhythmias, or previous 
serious infusion reactions to any prior biologic therapy or to rituximab, should not be administered the 
more rapid infusion.
Rheumatoid arthritis only
Alternative subsequent, faster, infusion schedule
If patients did not experience a serious infusion related reaction with their first or subsequent infusions 
of a dose of 1,000 mg Riximyo administered over the standard infusion schedule, a more rapid 
infusion can be administered for second and subsequent infusions using the same concentration as in 
previous infusions (4 mg/mL in a 250 mL volume). Initiate at a rate of 250 mg/hour for the first 
30 minutes and then 600 mg/hour for the next 90 minutes. If the more rapid infusion is tolerated, this 
infusion schedule can be used when administering subsequent infusions.
Patients who have clinically significant cardiovascular disease, including arrhythmias, or previous 
serious infusion reactions to any prior biologic therapy or to rituximab, should not be administered the 
more rapid infusion.
4.3 Contraindications
Contraindications for use in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
(CLL)
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to murine proteins, or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1.
Active, severe infections (see section 4.4).
9
Patients in a severely immunocompromised state.
Contraindications for use in rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), microscopic 
polyangiitis (MPA) and pemphigus vulgaris (PV)
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to murine proteins, or to any of the other excipients listed in 
section 6.1.
Active, severe infections (see section 4.4).
Patients in a severely immunocompromised state.
Severe heart failure (New York Heart Association Class IV) or severe, uncontrolled cardiac disease 
(see section 4.4 regarding other cardiovascular diseases).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)
All patients treated with Riximyo for rheumatoid arthritis, GPA, MPA or PV must be given the patient 
alert card with each infusion. The alert card contains important safety information for patients 
regarding potential increased risk of infections, PML.
Very rare cases of fatal PML have been reported following use of rituximab. Patients must be 
monitored at regular intervals for any new or worsening neurological symptoms or signs that may be 
suggestive of PML. If PML is suspected, further dosing must be suspended until PML has been 
excluded. The clinician should evaluate the patient to determine if the symptoms are indicative of 
neurological dysfunction, and if so, whether these symptoms are possibly suggestive of PML. 
Consultation with a Neurologist should be considered as clinically indicated.
If any doubt exists, further evaluation, including MRI scan preferably with contrast, cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) testing for JC Viral DNA and repeat neurological assessments, should be considered.
The physician should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML that the patient may not 
notice (e.g. cognitive, neurological or psychiatric symptoms). Patients should also be advised to 
inform their partner or caregivers about their treatment, since they may notice symptoms that the 
patient is not aware of.
If a patient develops PML, the dosing of Riximyo must be permanently discontinued.
Following reconstitution of the immune system in immunocompromised patients with PML, 
stabilisation or improved outcome has been seen. It remains unknown if early detection of PML and 
suspension of rituximab therapy may lead to similar stabilisation or improved outcome.
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Infusion-related reactions
Rituximab is associated with infusion-related reactions, which may be related to release of cytokines 
and/or other chemical mediators. Cytokine release syndrome may be clinically indistinguishable from 
acute hypersensitivity reactions.
This set of reactions which includes syndrome of cytokine release, tumour lysis syndrome and 
anaphylactic and hypersensitivity reactions are described below.
10
Severe infusion-related reactions with fatal outcome have been reported during post-marketing use of 
the rituximab intravenous formulation, with an onset ranging within 30 minutes to 2 hours after 
starting the first rituximab intravenous infusion. They were characterised by pulmonary events and in 
some cases included rapid tumour lysis and features of tumour lysis syndrome in addition to fever, 
chills, rigors, hypotension, urticaria, angioedema and other symptoms (see section 4.8).
Severe cytokine release syndrome is characterised by severe dyspnoea, often accompanied by 
bronchospasm and hypoxia, in addition to fever, chills, rigors, urticaria, and angioedema. This 
syndrome may be associated with some features of tumour lysis syndrome such as hyperuricaemia, 
hyperkalaemia, hypocalcaemia, hyperphosphataemia, acute renal failure, elevated lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) and may be associated with acute respiratory failure and death. The acute 
respiratory failure may be accompanied by events such as pulmonary interstitial infiltration or oedema, 
visible on a chest X-ray. The syndrome frequently manifests itself within one or two hours of initiating 
the first infusion. Patients with a history of pulmonary insufficiency or those with pulmonary tumour 
infiltration may be at greater risk of poor outcome and should be treated with increased caution. 
Patients who develop severe cytokine release syndrome should have their infusion interrupted 
immediately (see section 4.2) and should receive aggressive symptomatic treatment. Since initial 
improvement of clinical symptoms may be followed by deterioration, these patients should be closely 
monitored until tumour lysis syndrome and pulmonary infiltration have been resolved or ruled out. 
Further treatment of patients after complete resolution of signs and symptoms has rarely resulted in 
repeated severe cytokine release syndrome.
Patients with a high tumour burden or with a high number (≥ 25 x 109/L) of circulating malignant cells 
such as patients with CLL, who may be at higher risk of especially severe cytokine release syndrome, 
should be treated with extreme caution. These patients should be very closely monitored throughout 
the first infusion. Consideration should be given to the use of a reduced infusion rate for the first 
infusion in these patients or a split dosing over two days during the first cycle and any subsequent 
cycles if the lymphocyte count is still > 25 x 109/L.
Infusion-related adverse reactions of all kinds have been observed in 77% of patients treated with 
rituximab (including cytokine release syndrome accompanied by hypotension and bronchospasm in 
10% of patients) see section 4.8. These symptoms are usually reversible with interruption of rituximab 
infusion and administration of an anti-pyretic, an antihistaminic and occasionally oxygen, intravenous 
saline or bronchodilators, and glucocorticoids if required. Please see cytokine release syndrome above 
for severe reactions.
Anaphylactic and other hypersensitivity reactions have been reported following the intravenous 
administration of proteins to patients. In contrast to cytokine release syndrome, true hypersensitivity 
reactions typically occur within minutes after starting infusion. Medicinal products for the treatment of 
hypersensitivity reactions, e.g. epinephrine (adrenaline), antihistamines and glucocorticoids, should be 
available for immediate use in the event of an allergic reaction during administration of rituximab. 
Clinical manifestations of anaphylaxis may appear similar to clinical manifestations of the cytokine 
release syndrome (described above). Reactions attributed to hypersensitivity have been reported less 
frequently than those attributed to cytokine release.
Additional reactions reported in some cases were myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation, pulmonary 
oedema and acute reversible thrombocytopenia.
Since hypotension may occur during rituximab administration, consideration should be given to 
withholding anti-hypertensive medicines 12 hours prior to the Riximyo infusion.
Cardiac disorders
Angina pectoris, cardiac arrhythmias such as atrial flutter and fibrillation, heart failure and/or 
myocardial infarction have occurred in patients treated with rituximab. Therefore patients with a 
history of cardiac disease and/or cardiotoxic chemotherapy should be monitored closely.
11
Haematological toxicities
Although rituximab is not myelosuppressive in monotherapy, caution should be exercised when 
considering treatment of patients with neutrophils < 1.5 x 109/L and/or platelet counts < 75 x 109/L as 
clinical experience in this population is limited. Rituximab has been used in 21 patients who 
underwent autologous bone marrow transplantation and other risk groups with a presumable reduced 
bone marrow function without inducing myelotoxicity.
Regular full blood counts, including neutrophil and platelet counts, should be performed during 
Riximyo therapy.
Infections
Serious infections, including fatalities, can occur during therapy with rituximab (see section 4.8). 
Riximyo should not be administered to patients with an active, severe infection (e.g. tuberculosis, 
sepsis and opportunistic infections, see section 4.3).
Physicians should exercise caution when considering the use of Riximyo in patients with a history of 
recurring or chronic infections or with underlying conditions which may further predispose patients to 
serious infection (see section 4.8).
Cases of hepatitis B reactivation have been reported in subjects receiving rituximab including 
fulminant hepatitis with fatal outcome. The majority of these subjects were also exposed to cytotoxic 
chemotherapy. Limited information from one study in relapsed/refractory CLL patients suggests that 
rituximab treatment may also worsen the outcome of primary hepatitis B infections. Hepatitis B virus 
(HBV) screening should be performed in all patients before initiation of treatment with Riximyo. At 
minimum this should include HBsAg-status and HBcAb-status. These can be complemented with 
other appropriate markers as per local guidelines. Patients with active hepatitis B disease should not be 
treated with Riximyo. Patients with positive hepatitis B serology (either HBsAg or HBcAb) should 
consult liver disease experts before start of treatment and should be monitored and managed following 
local medical standards to prevent hepatitis B reactivation.
Very rare cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported during 
post-marketing use of rituximab in NHL and CLL (see section 4.8). The majority of patients had 
received rituximab in combination with chemotherapy or as part of a hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant.
Cases of enteroviral meningoencephalitis including fatalities have been reported following use of 
rituximab.
False negative serologic testing of infections
Due to the risk of false negative serologic testing of infections, alternative diagnostic tools should be 
considered in case of patients presenting with symptoms indicative of rare infectious disease e.g. West 
Nile virus and neuroborreliosis. 
Immunisations
The safety of immunisation with live viral vaccines, following rituximab therapy has not been studied 
for NHL and CLL patients and vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended. Patients 
treated with Riximyo may receive non-live vaccinations; however, with non-live vaccines response 
rates may be reduced. In a non-randomised study, adult patients with relapsed low-grade NHL who 
received rituximab monotherapy when compared to healthy untreated controls had a lower rate of 
response to vaccination with tetanus recall antigen (16% vs. 81%) and Keyhole Limpet Haemocyanin 
(KLH) neoantigen (4% vs. 76% when assessed for > 2-fold increase in antibody titer). For CLL 
patients, similar results are assumable considering similarities between both diseases but that has not 
been investigated in clinical trials.
Mean pre-therapeutic antibody titres against a panel of antigens (Streptococcus pneumoniae, influenza 
A, mumps, rubella, varicella) were maintained for at least 6 months after treatment with rituximab.
12
Skin reactions
Severe skin reactions such as Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome) and Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, some with fatal outcome, have been reported (see section 4.8). In case of such an event, 
with a suspected relationship to rituximab, treatment should be permanently discontinued.
Paediatric population 
Only limited data are available for patients under 3 years of age. See section 5.1 for further 
information.
Rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), microscopic polyangiitis (MPA), and 
pemphigus vulgaris (PV)
Methotrexate (MTX) naïve populations with rheumatoid arthritis
The use of rituximab is not recommended in MTX-naïve patients since a favourable benefit risk 
relationship has not been established.
Infusion-related reactions (IRRs)
Rituximab is associated with IRRs, which may be related to release of cytokines and/or other chemical 
mediators. 
Severe IRRs with fatal outcome have been reported in rheumatoid arthritis patients in the post-
marketing setting. In rheumatoid arthritis most infusion-related events reported in clinical trials were 
mild to moderate in severity. The most common symptoms were allergic reactions like headache, 
pruritus, throat irritation, flushing, rash, urticaria, hypertension, and pyrexia. In general, the proportion 
of patients experiencing any infusion reaction was higher following the first infusion than following 
the second infusion of any treatment course. The incidence of IRR decreased with subsequent courses 
(see section 4.8). The reactions reported were usually reversible with a reduction in rate, or 
interruption, of rituximab infusion and administration of an anti-pyretic, an antihistamine, and, 
occasionally, oxygen, intravenous sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or 
bronchodilators, and glucocorticoids if required. Closely monitor patients with pre-existing cardiac 
conditions and those who experienced prior cardiopulmonary adverse reactions. Depending on the 
severity of the IRR and the required interventions, temporarily or permanently discontinue Riximyo. 
In most cases, the infusion can be resumed at a 50% reduction in rate (e.g. from 100 mg/h to 50 mg/h) 
when symptoms have completely resolved.
Medicinal products for the treatment of hypersensitivity reactions, e.g. epinephrine (adrenaline), 
antihistamines and glucocorticoids, should be available for immediate use in the event of an allergic 
reaction during administration of Riximyo.
There are no data on the safety of rituximab in patients with moderate heart failure (NYHA class III) 
or severe, uncontrolled cardiovascular disease. In patients treated with rituximab, the occurrence of 
pre-existing ischemic cardiac conditions becoming symptomatic, such as angina pectoris, has been 
observed, as well as atrial fibrillation and flutter. Therefore, in patients with a known cardiac history, 
and those who experienced prior cardiopulmonary adverse reactions, the risk of cardiovascular 
complications resulting from infusion reactions should be considered before treatment with Riximyo 
and patients closely monitored during administration. Since hypotension may occur during rituximab 
infusion, consideration should be given to withholding anti-hypertensive medications 12 hours prior to 
the Riximyo infusion.
IRRs in patients with GPA, MPA and PV were consistent with those seen for rheumatoid arthritis 
patients in clinical trials and in the post-marketing setting (see section 4.8).
Cardiac disorders
Angina pectoris, cardiac arrhythmias such as atrial flutter and fibrillation, heart failure and/or 
myocardial infarction have occurred in patients treated with rituximab. Therefore, patients with a 
history of cardiac disease should be monitored closely (see Infusion-related reactions, above).
13
Infections
Based on the mechanism of action of rituximab and the knowledge that B cells play an important role 
in maintaining normal immune response, patients have an increased risk of infection following 
rituximab therapy (see section 5.1). Serious infections, including fatalities, can occur during therapy 
with rituximab (see section 4.8). Riximyo should not be administered to patients with an active, severe 
infection (e.g. tuberculosis, sepsis and opportunistic infections, see section 4.3) or severely 
immunocompromised patients (e.g. where levels of CD4 or CD8 are very low). Physicians should 
exercise caution when considering the use of rituximab in patients with a history of recurring or 
chronic infections or with underlying conditions which may further predispose patients to serious 
infection, e.g. hypogammaglobulinaemia (see section 4.8). It is recommended that immunoglobulin 
levels are determined prior to initiating treatment with Riximyo.
Patients reporting signs and symptoms of infection following Riximyo therapy should be promptly 
evaluated and treated appropriately. Before giving a subsequent course of Riximyo treatment, patients 
should be re-evaluated for any potential risk for infections.
Very rare cases of fatal progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported 
following use of rituximab for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and autoimmune diseases 
including Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) and vasculitis.
Cases of enteroviral meningoencephalitis including fatalities have been reported following use of 
rituximab.
False negative serologic testing of infections
Due to the risk of false negative serologic testing of infections, alternative diagnostic tools should be 
considered in case of patients presenting with symptoms indicative of rare infectious disease e.g. West 
Nile virus and neuroborreliosis.
Hepatitis B infections
Cases of hepatitis B reactivation, including those with a fatal outcome, have been reported in 
rheumatoid arthritis, GPA and MPA patients receiving rituximab.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) screening should be performed in all patients before initiation of treatment 
with Riximyo. At minimum this should include HBsAg-status and HBcAb-status. These can be 
complemented with other appropriate markers as per local guidelines. Patients with active hepatitis B 
disease should not be treated with rituximab. Patients with positive hepatitis B serology (either HBsAg 
or HBcAb) should consult liver disease experts before start of treatment and should be monitored and 
managed following local medical standards to prevent hepatitis B reactivation.
Late neutropenia
Measure blood neutrophils prior to each course of Riximyo, and regularly up to 6-months after 
cessation of treatment, and upon signs or symptoms of infection (see section 4.8).
Skin reactions
Severe skin reactions such as Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome) and Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, some with fatal outcome, have been reported (see section 4.8). In case of such an event 
with a suspected relationship to Riximyo, treatment should be permanently discontinued.
Immunisation
Physicians should review the patient’s vaccination status and patients should, if possible, be brought 
up-to-date with all immunisations in agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to 
initiating Riximyo therapy. Vaccination should be completed at least 4 weeks prior to first 
administration of Riximyo.
The safety of immunisation with live viral vaccines following rituximab therapy has not been studied. 
Therefore vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended whilst on Riximyo or whilst 
peripherally B cell depleted.
14
Patients treated with Riximyo may receive non-live vaccinations; however, response rates to non-live 
vaccines may be reduced. In a randomised trial, patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with 
rituximab and methotrexate had comparable response rates to tetanus recall antigen (39% vs. 42%), 
reduced rates to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (43% vs. 82% to at least 2 pneumococcal 
antibody serotypes), and KLH neoantigen (47% vs. 93%), when given 6 months after rituximab as 
compared to patients only receiving methotrexate. Should non-live vaccinations be required whilst 
receiving rituximab therapy, these should be completed at least 4 weeks prior to commencing the next 
course of rituximab.
In the overall experience of rituximab repeat treatment over one year in rheumatoid arthritis, the 
proportions of patients with positive antibody titres against S. pneumoniae, influenza, mumps, rubella, 
varicella and tetanus toxoid were generally similar to the proportions at baseline.
Concomitant/sequential use of other DMARDs in rheumatoid arthritis
The concomitant use of Riximyo and anti-rheumatic therapies other than those specified under the 
rheumatoid arthritis indication and posology is not recommended.
There are limited data from clinical trials to fully assess the safety of the sequential use of other 
DMARDs (including TNF inhibitors and other biologics) following rituximab (see section 4.5). The 
available data indicate that the rate of clinically relevant infection is unchanged when such therapies 
are used in patients previously treated with rituximab, however patients should be closely observed for 
signs of infection if biologic agents and/or DMARDs are used following rituximab therapy.
Malignancy
Immunomodulatory drugs may increase the risk of malignancy. However, available data do not 
suggest an increased risk of malignancy for rituximab used in autoimmune indications beyond the 
malignancy risk already associated with the underlying autoimmune condition.
Excipients
This medicinal product contains 2.3 mmol (or 52.6 mg) sodium per 10 mL vial and 11.5 mmol (or 
263.2 mg) sodium per 50 mL vial, equivalent to 2.6% (for 10 ml vial) and 13.2% (for 50 ml vial) of 
the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Currently, there are limited data on possible drug interactions with rituximab.
In CLL patients, co-administration with rituximab did not appear to have an effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of fludarabine or cyclophosphamide. In addition, there was no apparent effect of 
fludarabine and cyclophosphamide on the pharmacokinetics of rituximab.
Co-administration with methotrexate had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of rituximab in 
rheumatoid arthritis patients.
Patients with human anti-mouse antibody (HAMA) or anti-drug antibody (ADA) titres may have 
allergic or hypersensitivity reactions when treated with other diagnostic or therapeutic monoclonal 
antibodies.
In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, 283 patients received subsequent therapy with a biologic 
DMARD following rituximab. In these patients the rate of clinically relevant infection while on 
rituximab was 6.01 per 100 patient years compared to 4.97 per 100 patient years following treatment 
with the biologic DMARD.
15
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Contraception in males and females 
Due to the long retention time of rituximab in B cell depleted patients, women of childbearing 
potential should use effective contraceptive methods during and for 12 months following treatment 
with Riximyo.
Pregnancy
IgG immunoglobulins are known to cross the placental barrier.
B cell levels in human neonates following maternal exposure to rituximab have not been studied in 
clinical trials. There are no adequate and well-controlled data from studies in pregnant women, 
however transient B-cell depletion and lymphocytopenia have been reported in some infants born to 
mothers exposed to rituximab during pregnancy. Similar effects have been observed in animal studies 
(see section 5.3). For these reasons Riximyo should not be administered to pregnant women unless the 
possible benefit outweighs the potential risk.
Breast-feeding
Limited data on rituximab excretion into breast milk suggest very low rituximab concentrations in 
milk (relative infant dose less than 0.4%). Few cases of follow-up of breastfed infants describe normal 
growth and development up to 2 years. However, as these data are limited and the long-term outcomes 
of breastfed infants remain unknown, breastfeeding is not recommended while being treated with 
rituximab and optimally for 6 months following rituximab treatment.
Fertility
Animal studies did not reveal deleterious effects of rituximab on reproductive organs.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
No studies on the effects of rituximab on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed, 
although the pharmacological activity and adverse reactions reported to date suggest that rituximab 
would have no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Experience from non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) in adults
Summary of the safety profile
The overall safety profile of rituximab in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and CLL is based on data from 
patients from clinical trials and from post-marketing surveillance. These patients were treated either 
with rituximab monotherapy (as induction treatment or maintenance treatment following induction 
treatment) or in combination with chemotherapy.
The most frequently observed adverse reactions (ADRs) in patients receiving rituximab were IRRs 
which occurred in the majority of patients during the first infusion. The incidence of infusion-related 
symptoms decreases substantially with subsequent infusions and is less than 1% after eight doses of 
rituximab.
Infectious events (predominantly bacterial and viral) occurred in approximately 30-55% of patients 
during clinical trials in patients with NHL and in 30-50% of patients during clinical trials in patients 
with CLL.
16
The most frequently reported or observed serious adverse reactions were:
•
•
•
IRRs (including cytokine-release syndrome, tumour-lysis syndrome), see section 4.4.
Infections, see section 4.4.
Cardiovascular events, see section 4.4.
Other serious ADRs reported include hepatitis B reactivation and PML (see section 4.4.)
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The frequencies of ADRs reported with rituximab alone or in combination with chemotherapy are 
summarised in Table 3. Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) and very rare (< 1/10,000) 
and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, 
undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
The ADRs identified only during post-marketing surveillance, and for which a frequency could not be 
estimated, are listed under “not known”.
Table 3
ADRs reported in clinical trials or during postmarketing surveillance in patients 
with NHL and CLL disease treated with rituximab monotherapy/maintenance or in 
combination with chemotherapy
Common
Uncommon Rare
Very rare
Not known
PML
Serious viral 
infection2 
Pneumocystis 
jirovecii
enteroviral 
meningoenceph
alitis2, 3
MedDRA
System organ 
class
Infections and 
infestations
Very 
common
Bacterial 
infections, 
viral 
infections, 
+bronchitis
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders
Immune 
system 
disorders
Neutropenia, 
leucopenia, 
+febrile 
neutropenia, 
+thrombocyt
openia
Infusion 
related 
reactions5, 
angioedema
Sepsis, 
+pneumonia, 
+febrile infection, 
+herpes zoster, 
+respiratory tract 
infection, fungal 
infections, 
infections of 
unknown 
aetiology, +acute 
bronchitis, 
+sinusitis, hepatitis 
B1
Anaemia, 
+pancytopenia, 
+granulocytopenia
Coagulation 
disorders, 
aplastic 
anaemia, 
haemolytic 
anaemia, 
lymphadeno
pathy
Late 
neutropenia4
Transient 
increase in 
serum IgM 
levels4
Infusion-
related acute 
reversible 
thrombocytop
enia5
Tumour 
lysis 
syndrome, 
cytokine 
release 
syndrome5, 
serum 
sickness
Hypersensitivity
Anaphylaxis
17
Very 
common
MedDRA
System organ 
class
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders
Psychiatric 
disorders
Nervous 
system 
disorders
Eye disorders
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders
Cardiac 
disorders
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestin
al disorders
Nausea
Common
Uncommon Rare
Very rare
Not known
Hyperglycaemia, 
weight decrease, 
peripheral oedema, 
face oedema, 
increased LDH, 
hypocalcaemia
Paraesthesia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
agitation, 
insomnia, 
vasodilatation, 
dizziness, anxiety
Lacrimation 
disorder, 
conjunctivitis
Tinnitus, ear pain
+Myocardial 
infarction5, 7, 
arrhythmia, +atrial 
fibrillation, 
tachycardia, 
+cardiac disorder
Hypertension, 
orthostatic 
hypotension, 
hypotension
Bronchospasm5, 
respiratory 
disease, chest pain, 
dyspnoea, 
increased cough, 
rhinitis
Vomiting, 
diarrhoea, 
abdominal pain, 
dysphagia, 
stomatitis, 
constipation, 
dyspepsia, 
anorexia, throat 
irritation
Peripheral 
neuropathy, 
facial nerve 
palsy6
Cranial 
neuropathy, 
loss of other 
senses6
Severe 
vision loss6
Hearing loss6
Severe 
cardiac 
disorders 5, 7
Heart 
failure5, 7
Depression, 
nervousness
Dysgeusia
+Left 
ventricular 
failure, 
+supraventric
ular 
tachycardia, 
+ventricular 
tachycardia, 
+angina, 
+myocardial 
ischaemia, 
bradycardia
Vasculitis 
(predomina
tely 
cutaneous), 
leukocytocl
astic 
vasculitis
Respiratory 
failure5
Gastro-
intestinal 
perforation8
Lung 
infiltration
Interstitial 
lung disease8
Asthma, 
bronchiolitis 
obliterans, 
lung 
disorder, 
hypoxia
Abdominal 
enlargement
18
Common
Uncommon Rare
Very rare
Not known
Urticaria, 
sweating, night 
sweats, +skin 
disorder
Hypertonia, 
myalgia, 
arthralgia, back 
pain, neck pain, 
pain
Severe 
bullous 
skin 
reactions, 
Stevens-
Johnson 
Syndrome, 
toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
(Lyell’s 
Syndrome)8
Renal 
failure5
MedDRA
System organ 
class
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders
Very 
common
Pruritis, rash, 
+alopecia
Musculoskelet
al and 
connective 
tissue 
disorders
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions
Fever, chills, 
asthenia, 
headache
Tumour pain, 
flushing, malaise, 
cold syndrome, 
+fatigue, 
+shivering, +multi-
organ failure5
Infusion site 
pain
Investigations Decreased 
IgG levels
For each term, the frequency count was based on reactions of all grades (from mild to severe), except for terms 
marked with "+" where the frequency count was based only on severe (≥ grade 3 NCI common toxicity criteria) 
reactions. Only the highest frequency observed in the trials is reported
1 includes reactivation and primary infections; frequency based on R-FC regimen in relapsed/refractory CLL
2 see also section infection below
3 observed during post-marketing surveillance 
4 see also section haematologic adverse reactions below
5 see also section infusion related reactions below. Rarely fatal cases reported
6 signs and symptoms of cranial neuropathy. Occurred at various times up to several months after completion of 
rituximab therapy
7 observed mainly in patients with prior cardiac condition and/or cardiotoxic chemotherapy and were mostly 
associated with infusion-related reactions
8 includes fatal cases
The following terms have been reported as adverse events during clinical trials, however, were 
reported at a similar or lower incidence in the rituximab arms compared to control arms: 
haematotoxicity, neutropenic infection, urinary tract infection, sensory disturbance, pyrexia.
Signs and symptoms suggestive of an infusion-related reaction were reported in more than 50% of 
patients in clinical trials, and were predominantly seen during the first infusion, usually in the first one 
to two hours. These symptoms mainly comprised fever, chills and rigors. Other symptoms included 
flushing, angioedema, bronchospasm, vomiting, nausea, urticaria/rash, fatigue, headache, throat 
irritation, rhinitis, pruritus, pain, tachycardia, hypertension, hypotension, dyspnoea, dyspepsia, 
asthenia and features of tumour lysis syndrome. Severe infusion-related reactions (such as 
bronchospasm, hypotension) occurred in up to 12% of the cases. 
Additional reactions reported in some cases were myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation, pulmonary 
oedema and acute reversible thrombocytopenia. Exacerbations of pre-existing cardiac conditions such 
19
as angina pectoris or congestive heart failure or severe cardiac disorders (heart failure, myocardial 
infarction, atrial fibrillation), pulmonary oedema, multi-organ failure, tumour lysis syndrome, cytokine 
release syndrome, renal failure, and respiratory failure were reported at lower or unknown frequencies. 
The incidence of infusion-related symptoms decreased substantially with subsequent infusions and is 
< 1% of patients by the eighth cycle of rituximab (containing) treatment.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Infections
Rituximab induces B-cell depletion in about 70-80% of patients, but was associated with decreased 
serum immunoglobulins only in a minority of patients.
Localised candida infections as well as Herpes zoster were reported at a higher incidence in the 
rituximab-containing arm of randomised studies. Severe infections were reported in about 4% of 
patients treated with rituximab monotherapy. Higher frequencies of infections overall, including grade 
3 or 4 infections, were observed during rituximab maintenance treatment up to 2 years when compared 
to observation. There was no cumulative toxicity in terms of infections reported over a 2-year 
treatment period. In addition, other serious viral infections either new, reactivated or exacerbated, 
some of which were fatal, have been reported with rituximab treatment. The majority of patients had 
received rituximab in combination with chemotherapy or as part of a haematopoietic stem cell 
transplant. Examples of these serious viral infections are infections caused by the herpes viruses 
(Cytomegalovirus, Varicella Zoster Virus and Herpes Simplex Virus), JC virus (progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy [PML]), enterovirus (meningoencephalitis) and hepatitis C virus (see section 
4.4.). Cases of fatal PML that occurred after disease progression and retreatment have also been 
reported in clinical trials. Cases of hepatitis B reactivation, have been reported, the majority of which 
were in patients receiving rituximab in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy. In patients with 
relapsed/refractory CLL, the incidence of grade 3/4 hepatitis B infection (reactivation and primary 
infection) was 2% in R-FC vs. 0% FC. Progression of Kaposi’s sarcoma has been observed in 
rituximab-exposed patients with pre-existing Kaposi’s sarcoma. These cases occurred in non-approved 
indications and the majority of patients were HIV positive.
Haematologic adverse reactions
In clinical trials with rituximab monotherapy given for 4 weeks, haematological abnormalities 
occurred in a minority of patients and were usually mild and reversible. Severe (grade 3/4) neutropenia 
was reported in 4.2%, anaemia in 1.1% and thrombocytopenia in 1.7% of the patients. During 
rituximab maintenance treatment for up to 2 years, leucopenia (5% vs. 2%, grade 3/4) and neutropenia 
(10% vs. 4%, grade 3/4) were reported at a higher incidence when compared to observation. The 
incidence of thrombocytopenia was low (< 1%, grade 3/4) and was not different between treatment 
arms. During the treatment course in studies with rituximab in combination with chemotherapy, 
grade 3/4 leucopenia (R-CHOP 88% vs. CHOP 79%, R-FC 23% vs. FC 12%), neutropenia (R-CVP 
24% vs. CVP 14%; R-CHOP 97% vs. CHOP 88%, R-FC 30% vs. FC 19% in previously untreated 
CLL), pancytopenia (R-FC 3% vs. FC 1% in previously untreated CLL) were usually reported with 
higher frequencies when compared to chemotherapy alone. However, the higher incidence of 
neutropenia in patients treated with rituximab and chemotherapy was not associated with a higher 
incidence of infections and infestations compared to patients treated with chemotherapy alone. Studies 
in previously untreated and relapsed/refractory CLL have established that in up to 25% of patients 
treated with R-FC neutropenia was prolonged (defined as neutrophil count remaining below 1 x 109/L 
between day 24 and 42 after the last dose) or occurred with a late onset (defined as neutrophil count 
below 1 x 109/L later than 42 days after last dose in patients with no previous prolonged neutropenia 
or who recovered prior to day 42) following treatment with rituximab plus FC. There were no 
differences reported for the incidence of anaemia. Some cases of late neutropenia occurring more than 
four weeks after the last infusion of rituximab were reported. In the CLL first-line study, Binet stage C 
patients experienced more adverse events in the R-FC arm compared to the FC arm (R-FC 83% vs. FC 
71%). In the relapsed/refractory CLL study grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia was reported in 11% of 
patients in the R-FC group compared to 9% of patients in the FC group.
20
In studies of rituximab in patients with Waldenstrom’s macroglobulinaemia, transient increases in 
serum IgM levels have been observed following treatment initiation, which may be associated with 
hyperviscosity and related symptoms. The transient IgM increase usually returned to at least baseline 
level within 4 months.
Cardiovascular adverse reactions
Cardiovascular reactions during clinical trials with rituximab monotherapy were reported in 18.8% of 
patients with the most frequently reported events being hypotension and hypertension. Cases of 
grade 3 or 4 arrhythmia (including ventricular and supraventricular tachycardia) and angina pectoris 
during infusion were reported. During maintenance treatment, the incidence of grade 3/4 cardiac 
disorders was comparable between patients treated with rituximab and observation. Cardiac events 
were reported as serious adverse events (including atrial fibrillation, myocardial infarction, left 
ventricular failure, myocardial ischaemia) in 3% of patients treated with rituximab compared to < 1% 
on observation. In studies evaluating rituximab in combination with chemotherapy, the incidence of 
grade 3 and 4 cardiac arrhythmias, predominantly supraventricular arrhythmias such as tachycardia 
and atrial flutter/fibrillation, was higher in the R-CHOP group (14 patients, 6.9%) as compared to the 
CHOP group (3 patients, 1.5%). All of these arrhythmias either occurred in the context of a rituximab 
infusion or were associated with predisposing conditions such as fever, infection, acute myocardial 
infarction or pre-existing respiratory and cardiovascular disease. No difference between the R-CHOP 
and CHOP group was observed in the incidence of other grade 3 and 4 cardiac events including heart 
failure, myocardial disease and manifestations of coronary artery disease. In CLL, the overall 
incidence of grade 3 or 4 cardiac disorders was low both in the first-line study (4% R-FC, 3% FC) and 
in the relapsed/refractory study (4% R-FC, 4% FC).
Respiratory system
Cases of interstitial lung disease, some with fatal outcome have been reported.
Neurologic disorders
During the treatment period (induction treatment phase comprising of R-CHOP for at most eight 
cycles), four patients (2%) treated with R-CHOP, all with cardiovascular risk factors, experienced 
thromboembolic cerebrovascular accidents during the first treatment cycle. There was no difference 
between the treatment groups in the incidence of other thromboembolic events. In contrast, three 
patients (1.5%) had cerebrovascular events in the CHOP group, all of which occurred during the 
follow-up period. In CLL, the overall incidence of grade 3 or 4 nervous system disorders was low both 
in the first-line study (4% R-FC, 4% FC) and in the relapsed/refractory study (3% R-FC, 3% FC).
Cases of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) / reversible posterior 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) have been reported. Signs and symptoms included visual 
disturbance, headache, seizures and altered mental status, with or without associated hypertension. A 
diagnosis of PRES/RPLS requires confirmation by brain imaging. The reported cases had recognized 
risk factors for PRES/RPLS, including the patients’ underlying disease, hypertension, 
immunosuppressive therapy and/or chemotherapy.
Gastrointestinal disorders
Gastrointestinal perforation in some cases leading to death has been observed in patients receiving 
rituximab for treatment of NHL. In the majority of these cases, rituximab was administered with 
chemotherapy.
IgG levels
In the clinical trial evaluating rituximab maintenance treatment in relapsed/refractory follicular 
lymphoma, median IgG levels were below the lower limit of normal (LLN) (< 7 g/L) after induction 
treatment in both the observation and the rituximab groups. In the observation group, the median IgG 
level subsequently increased to above the LLN, but remained constant in the rituximab group. The 
proportion of patients with IgG levels below the LLN was about 60% in the rituximab group 
throughout the 2 year treatment period, while it decreased in the observation group (36% after 
2 years).
21
A small number of spontaneous and literature cases of hypogammaglobulinaemia have been observed 
in paediatric patients treated with rituximab, in some cases severe and requiring long-term 
immunoglobulin substitution therapy. The consequences of long term B cell depletion in paediatric 
patients are unknown.
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (Lyell syndrome) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, some with fatal 
outcome, have been reported very rarely.
Patient subpopulations – rituximab monotherapy
Elderly (≥ 65 years)
The incidence of ADRs of all grades and grade 3 /4 ADR was similar in elderly patients compared to 
younger patients (< 65 years).
Bulky disease
There was a higher incidence of grade 3/4 ADRs in patients with bulky disease than in patients 
without bulky disease (25.6% vs. 15.4%). The incidence of ADRs of any grade was similar in these 
two groups.
Re-treatment
The percentage of patients reporting ADRs upon re-treatment with further courses of rituximab was 
similar to the percentage of patients reporting ADRs upon initial exposure (any grade and grade 3/4 
ADRs).
Patient subpopulations – rituximab combination therapy
Elderly (≥ 65 years)
The incidence of grade 3/4 blood and lymphatic adverse events was higher in elderly patients 
compared to younger patients (< 65 years), with previously untreated or relapsed/refractory CLL.
Experience from paediatric DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL
Summary of safety profile 
A multicentre, open-label randomised study of Lymphome Malin B chemotherapy (LMB) with or 
without rituximab was conducted in paediatric patients (aged ≥ 6 months to < 18 years old) with 
previously untreated advanced stage CD20 positive DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL. 
A total of 309 paediatric patients received rituximab and were included in the safety analysis 
population. Paediatric patients randomised to the LMB chemotherapy arm with rituximab, or enrolled 
in the single arm part of the study, were administered rituximab at a dose of 375 mg/m2 BSA and 
received a total of six intravenous infusions of rituximab (two during each of the two induction 
courses and one during each of the two consolidation courses of the LMB scheme). 
The safety profile of rituximab in paediatric patients (aged ≥ 6 months to < 18 years old) with 
previously untreated advanced stage CD20 positive DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL was generally consistent in 
type, nature and severity with the known safety profile in adult NHL and CLL patients. Addition of 
rituximab to chemotherapy did result in an increased risk of some events including infections 
(including sepsis) compared to chemotherapy only.
Experience from rheumatoid arthritis
Summary of the safety profile
The overall safety profile of rituximab in rheumatoid arthritis is based on data from patients from 
clinical trials and from post-marketing surveillance.
22
The safety profile of rituximab in patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is 
summarised in the sections below. In clinical trials more than 3,100 patients received at least one 
treatment course and were followed for periods ranging from 6 months to over 5 years; approximately 
2,400 patients received two or more courses of treatment with over 1,000 having received 5 or more 
courses. The safety information collected during post marketing experience reflects the expected 
adverse reaction profile as seen in clinical trials for rituximab (see section 4.4).
Patients received 2 x 1,000 mg of rituximab separated by an interval of two weeks; in addition to 
methotrexate (10 – 25 mg/week). Rituximab infusions were administered after an intravenous infusion 
of 100 mg methylprednisolone; patients also received treatment with oral prednisone for 15 days.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions are listed in Table 4. Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare 
(< 1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of decreasing seriousness.
The most frequent adverse reactions considered due to receipt of rituximab IRRs. The overall 
incidence of IRRs in clinical trials was 23% with the first infusion and decreased with subsequent 
infusions. Serious IRRs were uncommon (0.5% of patients) and were predominantly seen during the 
initial course. In addition to adverse reactions seen in RA clinical trials for rituximab, progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) (see section 4.4) and serum sickness-like reaction have been 
reported during post marketing experience.
Table 4
Summary of adverse reactions reported in clinical trials or during postmarketing 
surveillance occurring in patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving rituximab
MedDRA
System organ 
class
Infections and 
infestations
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders
Very common Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Not known
Upper 
respiratory 
tract infection, 
urinary tract 
infections
Bronchitis, 
sinusitis, 
gastroenteritis, 
tinea pedis
Neutropenia3
PML, 
reactivatio
n of 
hepatitis B
serious viral 
infection1, 
enteroviral 
meningoence
phalitis2
Late 
neutropenia
4
Serum 
sickness-
like 
reaction
23
MedDRA
System organ 
class
Immune system 
disorders
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Psychiatric 
disorders
Nervous system 
disorders
Cardiac 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Very common Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Not known
Infusion-
related 
reactions5 
(generalised 
oedema, 
bronchospasm, 
wheezing, 
laryngeal 
oedema, 
angioneurotic 
oedema, 
generalised 
pruritus, 
anaphylaxis, 
anaphylactoid 
reaction)
Infusion-
related 
reactions5 
(hypertension, 
nausea, rash, 
pyrexia, 
pruritus, 
urticaria, throat 
irritation, hot 
flush, 
hypotension, 
rhinitis, rigors, 
tachycardia, 
fatigue, 
oropharyngeal 
pain, peripheral 
oedema, 
erythema)
Headache
Hypercholeste
rolemia
Depression, 
anxiety
Paraesthesia, 
migraine, 
dizziness, 
sciatica
Dyspepsia, 
diarrhoea, 
gastro-
oesophageal 
reflux, mouth 
ulceration, 
upper 
abdominal 
pain
Alopecia
24
Atrial 
flutter
Angina 
pectoris, 
atrial 
fibrillation, 
heart 
failure, 
myocardial 
infarction
Toxic 
Epidermal 
Necrolysis 
(Lyell’s 
syndrome)
, Stevens-
Johnson 
syndrome7
Very common Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Not known
MedDRA
System organ 
class
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders
Arthralgia / 
musculoskelet
al pain, 
osteoarthritis, 
bursitis
Decreased IgG
Levels6
Investigations
Decreased IgM
Levels6
1  See also section infections below.
2 Observed during post-marketing surveillance
3 Frequency category derived from laboratory values collected as part of routine laboratory monitoring in 
clinical trials.
4 Frequency category derived from post-marketing data.
5 Reactions occurring during or within 24 hours of infusion. See also infusion-related reactions below. 
IRRs may occur as a result of hypersensitivity and/or to the mechanism of action.
6 Includes observations collected as part of routine laboratory monitoring.
7 Includes fatal cases.
Multiple courses
Multiple courses of treatment are associated with a similar ADR profile to that observed following 
first exposure. The rate of all ADRs following first rituximab exposure was highest during the first 
6 months and declined thereafter. This is mostly accounted for by IRRs (most frequent during the first 
treatment course), RA exacerbation and infections, all of which were more frequent in the first 
6 months of treatment.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Infusion-related reactions
The most frequent ADRs following receipt of rituximab in clinical studies were IRRs (refer to 
Table 4). Among the 3189 patients treated with rituximab, 1,135 (36%) experienced at least one IRR 
with 733/3,189 (23%) of patients experiencing an IRR following first infusion of the first exposure to 
rituximab. The incidence of IRRs declined with subsequent infusions. In clinical trials fewer than 1% 
(17/3,189) of patients experienced a serious IRR. There were no CTC Grade 4 IRRs and no deaths due 
to IRRs in the clinical trials. The proportion of CTC Grade 3 events and of IRRs leading to withdrawal 
decreased by course and were rare from course 3 onwards. Premedication with intravenous 
glucocorticoid significantly reduced the incidence and severity of IRRs (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Severe IRRs with fatal outcome have been reported in the post-marketing setting.
In a trial designed to evaluate the safety of a more rapid rituximab infusion in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis, patients with moderate-to-severe active RA who did not experience a serious IRR during or 
within 24 hours of their first studied infusion were allowed to receive a 2-hour intravenous infusion of 
rituximab. Patients with a history of a serious infusion reaction to a biologic therapy for RA were 
excluded from entry. The incidence, types and severity of IRRs were consistent with that observed 
historically. No serious IRRs were observed.
Infections
The overall rate of infection reported from clinical trials was approximately 94 per 100 patient years in 
rituximab treated patients. The infections were predominately mild to moderate and consisted mostly 
of upper respiratory tract infections and urinary tract infections. The incidence of infections that were 
serious or required intravenous antibiotics was approximately 4 per 100 patient years. The rate of 
serious infections did not show any significant increase following multiple courses of rituximab. 
Lower respiratory tract infections (including pneumonia) have been reported during clinical trials, at a 
similar incidence in the rituximab arms compared to control arms.
In the post marketing setting, serious viral infections have been reported in RA patients treated 
25
with rituximab.
Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with fatal outcome have been reported following 
use of rituximab for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. This includes rheumatoid arthritis and 
off-label autoimmune diseases, including Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) and vasculitis.
In patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma receiving rituximab in combination with cytotoxic 
chemotherapy, cases of hepatitis B reactivation have been reported (see non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma). 
Reactivation of hepatitis B infection has also been very rarely reported in RA patients receiving 
rituximab (see section 4.4).
Cardiovascular adverse reactions
Serious cardiac reactions were reported at a rate of 1.3 per 100 patient years in the rituximab treated 
patients compared to 1.3 per 100 patient years in placebo treated patients. The proportions of patients 
experiencing cardiac reactions (all or serious) did not increase over multiple courses.
Neurologic events 
Cases of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES)/reversible posterior 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) have been reported. Signs and symptoms included visual 
disturbance, headache, seizures and altered mental status, with or without associated hypertension. A 
diagnosis of PRES/RPLS requires confirmation by brain imaging. The reported cases had recognised 
risk factors for PRES/RPLS, including the patients’ underlying disease, hypertension, 
immunosuppressive therapy and/or chemotherapy.
Neutropenia
Events of neutropenia were observed with rituximab treatment, the majority of which were transient 
and mild or moderate in severity. Neutropenia can occur several months after the administration of 
rituximab (see section 4.4).
In placebo-controlled periods of clinical trials, 0.94% (13/1,382) of rituximab treated patients and 
0.27% (2/731) of placebo patients developed severe neutropenia.
Neutropenic events, including severe late onset and persistent neutropenia, have been rarely reported 
in the post-marketing setting, some of which were associated with fatal infections.
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, some with fatal 
outcome, have been reported very rarely.
Laboratory abnormalities
Hypogammaglobulinaemia (IgG or IgM below the lower limit of normal) has been observed in RA 
patients treated with rituximab. There was no increased rate in overall infections or serious infections 
after the development of low IgG or IgM (see section 4.4).
A small number of spontaneous and literature cases of hypogammaglobulinaemia have been observed 
in paediatric patients treated with rituximab, in some cases severe and requiring long-term 
immunoglobulin substitution therapy. The consequences of long-term B cell depletion in paediatric 
patients are unknown.
Experience from granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Adult induction of remission (GPA/MPA Study 1) 
In GPA/MPA Study 1, 99 adult patients were treated for induction of remission of GPA and MPA 
with rituximab (375 mg/m2, once weekly for 4 weeks) and glucocorticoids (see section 5.1).
The ADRs listed in Table 5 were all adverse events which occurred at an incidence of ≥ 5% in the 
rituximab group and at a higher frequency than the comparator group.
26
Table 5
Adverse reactions occurring at 6 months in ≥ 5% of adult patients receiving 
rituximab in GPA/MPA Study 1 (Rituximab n=99 at a higher frequency than the 
comparator group), or during postmarketing surveillance.
MedDRA System organ class
Adverse reaction
Infections and infestations
Urinary tract infection
Bronchitis
Herpes zoster
Nasopharyngitis
Serious viral infection1, 2
Enteroviral meningoencephalitis1
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Thrombocytopenia
Immune system disorders
Cytokine release syndrome
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Hyperkalaemia
Psychiatric disorders
Insomnia
Nervous system disorders
Dizziness
Tremor
Vascular disorders
Hypertension
Flushing
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Cough
Dyspnoea
Epistaxis
Nasal congestion
Gastrointestinal disorders
Diarrhoea
Dyspepsia
Constipation
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Acne
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
Muscle spasms
Arthralgia
Back pain
Muscle weakness
Musculoskeletal pain
Pain in extremities
27
Frequency
7%
5%
5%
5%
not known
not known 
7%
5%
5%
14%
10%
10%
12%
5%
12%
11%
11%
6%
18%
6%
5%
7%
18%
15%
10%
5%
5%
5%
MedDRA System organ class
Adverse reaction
General disorders and administration site conditions
Peripheral oedema
Investigations
Decreased haemoglobin
1 Observed during post-marketing surveillance. 
2 See also section infections below.
Frequency
16%
6%
Adult maintenance treatment (GPA/MPA Study 2)
In GPA/MPA Study 2, a total of 57 adult patients with severe, active GPA and MPA were treated with 
rituximab for the maintenance of remission (see section 5.1).
Table 6
Adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 5% of adult patients receiving rituximab in 
GPA/MPA Study 2 (Rituximab n=57), at a higher frequency than the comparator 
group, or during postmarketing surveillance.
MedDRA System organ class
Adverse reaction
Infections and infestations
Bronchitis
Rhinitis
Serious viral infection1, 2
Enteroviral meningoencephalitis1
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Dyspnoea
Gastrointestinal disorders
Diarrhoea
General disorders and administration site conditions
Pyrexia
Influenza-like illness
Oedema peripheral
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications
Infusion-related reactions3
Frequency
14%
5%
not known
not known 
9%
7%
9%
5%
5%
12%
1 Observed during post-marketing surveillance. 
2 See also section infections below.
3 Details on infusion related reactions are provided in the description of selected adverse reactions section.
The overall safety profile was consistent with the well-established safety profile for rituximab in 
approved autoimmune indications, including GPA and MPA. Overall, 4% of patients in the rituximab 
arm experienced adverse events leading to discontinuation. Most adverse events in the rituximab arm 
were mild or moderate in intensity. No patients in the rituximab arm had fatal adverse events.
The most commonly reported events considered as ADRs were infusion-related reactions and 
infections.  
Long-term follow-up (GPA/MPA Study 3)
In a long-term observational safety study, 97 GPA and MPA patients received treatment with 
rituximab (mean of 8 infusions [range 1-28]) for up to 4 years, according to their physician’s standard 
practice and discretion. The overall safety profile was consistent with the well-established safety 
profile of rituximab in RA and GPA and MPA and no new adverse reactions were reported.
28
Paediatric population 
An open-label, single arm study was conducted in 25 paediatric patients with severe, active GPA or 
MPA. The overall study period consisted of a 6-month remission induction phase with a minimum 18-
month follow-up, up to 4.5 years overall. During the follow-up phase, Rituximab was given at the 
discretion of the investigator (17 out of 25 patients received additional rituximab treatment). 
Concomitant treatment with other immunosuppressive therapy was permitted (see section 5.1). 
ADRs were considered as adverse events that occurred at an incidence of ≥ 10%. These included: 
infections (17 patients [68%] in the remission induction phase; 23 patients [92%] in the overall study 
period), IRRs (15 patients [60%] in the remission induction phase; 17 patients [68%] in the overall 
study period), and nausea (4 patients [16%] in the remission induction phase; 5 patients [20%] in the 
overall study period). 
During the overall study period, the safety profile of rituximab was consistent with that reported 
during the remission induction phase. 
The safety profile of rituximab in paediatric GPA or MPA patients was consistent in type, nature and 
severity with the known safety profile in adult patients in the approved autoimmune indications, 
including adult GPA or MPA.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Infusion-related reactions
In GPA/MPA Study 1 (adult induction of remission study), IRRs were defined as any adverse event 
occurring within 24 hours of an infusion and considered to be infusion-related by investigators in the 
safety population. Of the 99 patients treated with rituximab, 12 (12%) experienced at least one IRR. 
All IRRs were CTC Grade 1 or 2. The most common IRRs included cytokine release syndrome, 
flushing, throat irritation, and tremor. Rituximab was given in combination with intravenous 
glucocorticoids which may reduce the incidence and severity of these events.
In GPA/MPA Study 2 (adult maintenance study), 7/57 (12%) patients in the rituximab arm 
experienced at least one infusion-related reaction. The incidence of IRR symptoms was highest during 
or after the first infusion (9%) and decreased with subsequent infusions (< 4%). All IRR symptoms 
were mild or moderate and most of them were reported from the SOCs Respiratory, Thoracic and 
Mediastinal Disorders and Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue disorders. 
In the clinical trial in paediatric patients with GPA or MPA, the reported IRRs were predominantly 
seen with the first infusion (8 patients [32%]), and then decreased over time with the number of 
rituximab infusions (20% with the second infusion, 12% with the third infusion and 8% with the 
fourth infusion). The most common IRR symptoms reported during the remission induction phase 
were: headache, rash, rhinorrhoea and pyrexia (8%, for each symptom). The observed symptoms of 
IRRs were similar to those known in adult GPA or MPA patients treated with rituximab. The majority 
of IRRs were Grade 1 and Grade 2, there were two non-serious Grade 3 IRRs, and no Grade 4 or 5 
IRRs reported. One serious Grade 2 IRR (generalised oedema which resolved with treatment) was 
reported in one patient (see section 4.4).
Infections
In GPA/MPA Study 1, the overall rate of infection was approximately 237 per 100 patient years 
(95% CI 197 - 285) at the 6-month primary endpoint. Infections were predominately mild to moderate 
and consisted mostly of upper respiratory tract infections, herpes zoster and urinary tract infections. 
The rate of serious infections was approximately 25 per 100 patient years. The most frequently 
reported serious infection in the rituximab group was pneumonia at a frequency of 4%.
In GPA/MPA Study 2, 30/57 (53%) patients in the rituximab arm experienced infections. The 
incidence of all grade infections was similar between the arms. Infections were predominately mild to 
moderate. The most common infections in the rituximab arm included upper respiratory tract 
infections, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections and herpes zoster. The incidence of serious 
29
infections was similar in both arms (approximately 12%). The most commonly reported serious 
infection in the rituximab group was mild or moderate bronchitis.
In the clinical trial in paediatric patients with severe, active GPA and MPA, 91% of reported infections 
were non-serious and 90% were mild to moderate.
The most common infections in the overall phase were: upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) 
(48%), influenza (24%), conjunctivitis (20%), nasopharyngitis (20%), lower respiratory tract 
infections (16%), sinusitis (16%), viral URTIs (16%), ear infection (12%), gastroenteritis (12%), 
pharyngitis (12%), urinary tract infection (12%). Serious infections were reported in 7 patients (28%), 
and included: influenza (2 patients [8%]) and lower respiratory tract infection (2 patients [8%]) as the 
most frequently reported events.
In the post marketing setting, serious viral infections have been reported in GPA/MPA patients 
treated with rituximab.
Malignancies
In GPA/MPA Study 1, the incidence of malignancy in rituximab treated patients in the GPA and MPA 
clinical study was 2.00 per 100 patient years at the study common closing date (when the final patient 
had completed the follow-up period). On the basis of standardised incidence ratios, the incidence of 
malignancies appears to be similar to that previously reported in patients with ANCA-associated 
vasculitis.
In the paediatric clinical trial, no malignancies were reported with a follow-up period of up to 
54 months.
Cardiovascular adverse reactions
In GPA/MPA Study 1, cardiac events occurred at a rate of approximately 273 per 100 patient years 
(95% CI 149 - 470) at the 6-month primary endpoint. The rate of serious cardiac events was 
2.1 per 100 patient years (95% CI 3 - 15). The most frequently reported events were tachycardia (4%) 
and atrial fibrillation (3%) (see section 4.4).
Neurologic events
Cases of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES)/reversible posterior 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) have been reported in autoimmune conditions. Signs and 
symptoms included visual disturbance, headache, seizures and altered mental status, with or without 
associated hypertension. A diagnosis of PRES/RPLS requires confirmation by brain imaging. The 
reported cases had recognised risk factors for PRES/RPLS, including the patients’ underlying disease, 
hypertension, immunosuppressive therapy and/or chemotherapy."
Hepatitis-B reactivation
A small number of cases of hepatitis-B reactivation, some with fatal outcome, have been reported in 
GPA and MPA patients receiving rituximab in the postmarketing setting.
Hypogammaglobulinaemia
Hypogammaglobulinaemia (IgA, IgG or IgM below the lower limit of normal) has been observed in 
adult and paediatric GPA and MPA patients treated with rituximab. 
In GPA/MPA Study 1, at 6 months, in the rituximab group, 27%, 58% and 51% of patients with 
normal immunoglobulin levels at baseline, had low IgA, IgG and IgM levels, respectively compared to 
25%, 50% and 46% in the cyclophosphamide group. The rate of overall infections and serious 
infections was not increased after the development of low IgA, IgG or IgM.
In GPA/MPA Study 2, no clinically meaningful differences between the two treatment arms or 
decreases in total immunoglobulin, IgG, IgM or IgA levels were observed throughout the trial.
In the paediatric clinical trial, during the overall study period, 3/25 (12%) patients reported an event of 
hypogammaglobulinaemia, 18 patients (72%) had prolonged (defined as Ig levels below lower limit of 
normal for at least 4 months) low IgG levels (of whom 15 patients also had prolonged low IgM). 
30
Three patients received treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (IV-IG). Based on limited data, 
no firm conclusions can be drawn regarding whether prolonged low IgG and IgM led to an increased 
risk of serious infection in these patients. The consequences of long-term B cell depletion in paediatric 
patients are unknown.
Neutropenia
In GPA/MPA Study 1, 24% of patients in the rituximab group (single course) and 23% of patients in 
the cyclophosphamide group developed CTC grade 3 or greater neutropenia. Neutropenia was not 
associated with an observed increase in serious infection in rituximab-treated patients. 
In GPA/MPA Study 2, the incidence of all-grade neutropenia was 0% for rituximab-treated patients vs 
5% for azathioprine treated patients.
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, some with fatal 
outcome, have been reported very rarely.
Experience from pemphigus vulgaris
Summary of the safety profile in PV Study 1 (Study ML22196) and PV Study 2 (Study WA29330)
The safety profile of rituximab in combination with short-term, low-dose glucocorticoids in the 
treatment of patients with PV was studied in a Phase 3, randomised, controlled, multicenter, open-
label study in pemphigus patients that included 38 PV patients randomised to the rituximab group (PV 
Study I). Patients randomised to the rituximab group received an initial 1000 mg intravenously on 
Study Day 1 and a second 1000 mg intravenously on Study Day 15. Maintenance doses of 500 mg 
intravenously were administered at months 12 and 18. Patients could receive 1000 mg intravenously at 
the time of relapse (see section 5.1).
In PV Study 2, a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, active-comparator, multicentre study 
evaluating the efficacy and safety of rituximab compared with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in 
patients with moderate-to-severe PV requiring oral corticosteroids, 67 PV patients received treatment 
with rituximab (initial 1000 mg intravenously on Study Day 1 and a second 1000 mg intravenously 
on Study Day 15 repeated at Weeks 24 and 26) for up to 52 weeks (see section 5.1).
The safety profile of rituximab in PV was consistent with the established safety profile in other 
approved autoimmune indications.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions for PV Studies 1 and 2
Adverse reactions from PV Studies 1 and 2 are presented in Table 7. In PV Study 1, ADRs were 
defined as adverse events which occurred at a rate of  5% among rituximab-treated PV patients, with 
a  2% absolute difference in incidence between the rituximab-treated group and the standard-dose 
prednisone group up to month 24. No patients were withdrawn due to ADRs in Study 1. In PV 
Study 2, ADRs were defined as adverse events occurring in ≥ 5% of patients in the rituximab arm and 
assessed as related.
31
Table 7
Adverse reactions in rituximab-treated PV patients PV Study 1 (up to Month 24) 
and PV Study 2 (up to Week 52) , or during postmarketing surveillance
MedDRA System organ 
class
Infections and infestations
Neoplasms Benign, 
Malignant and Unspecified 
(incl. cysts and polyps)
Psychiatric disorders
Nervous system disorders
Cardiac disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal, connective 
tissue and bone disorders
Not known
serious viral infection1, 
2 Enteroviral 
meningoencephalitis1
Very common
Common
Upper respiratory 
tract infection
Herpes virus infection
Herpes zoster
Oral herpes
Conjunctivitis
Nasopharyngitis
Oral candidiasis
Urinary tract infection
Skin papilloma
Persistent 
depressive 
disorder
Headache
Major depression
Irritability
Dizziness
Alopecia
Tachycardia
Abdominal pain upper
Pruritus
Urticaria
Skin disorder
Musculoskeletal pain
Arthralgia
Back pain
Fatigue
Asthenia
Pyrexia
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions
Infusion-related 
Injury, Poisoning and 
Procedural Complications
reactions3
1 Observed during post-marketing surveillance.  
 2 See also section infections below.
3 Infusion-related reactions for PV Study 1 included symptoms collected on the next scheduled visit after each infusion, and 
adverse events occurring on the day of or one day after the infusion. The most common infusion-related reaction 
symptoms/Preferred Terms for PV Study 1 included headaches, chills, high blood pressure, nausea, asthenia and pain.
The most common infusion-related reaction symptoms/Preferred Terms for PV Study 2 were dyspnoea, erythema, 
hyperhidrosis, flushing/hot flush, hypotension/low blood pressure and rash/rash pruritic.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Infusion-related reactions
In PV Study 1, infusion-related reactions were common (58%). Nearly all infusion-related reactions 
were mild to moderate. The proportion of patients experiencing an infusion- related reaction was 29% 
(11 patients), 40% (15 patients), 13% (5 patients), and 10% (4 patients) following the first, second, 
third, and fourth infusions, respectively. No patients were withdrawn from treatment due to infusion-
related reactions. Symptoms of infusion-related reactions were similar in type and severity to those 
seen in RA and GPA/MPA patients.
In PV Study 2, IRRs occurred primarily at the first infusion and the frequency of IRRs decreased with 
subsequent infusions: 17.9%, 4.5%, 3% and 3% of patients experienced IRRs at the first, second, third, 
and fourth infusions, respectively. In 11/15 patients who experienced at least one IRR, the IRRs were 
32
Grade 1 or 2. In 4/15 patients, Grade ≥ 3 IRRs were reported and led to discontinuation of rituximab 
treatment; three of the four patients experienced serious (life-threatening) IRRs. Serious IRRs 
occurred at the first (2 patients) or second (1 patient) infusion and resolved with symptomatic 
treatment.
Infections
In PV Study 1, 14 patients (37%) in the rituximab group experienced treatment-related infections 
compared to 15 patients (42%) in the standard-dose prednisone group. The most common infections in 
the rituximab group were herpes simplex and zoster infections, bronchitis, urinary tract infection, 
fungal infection and conjunctivitis. Three patients (8%) in the rituximab group experienced a total of 5 
serious infections (Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, infective thrombosis, intervertebral discitis, 
lung infection, Staphylococcal sepsis) and one patient (3%) in the standard-dose prednisone group 
experienced a serious infection (Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia). 
In PV Study 2, 42 patients (62.7%) in the rituximab arm experienced infections. The most common 
infections in the rituximab group were upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, oral 
candidiasis and urinary tract infection. Six patients (9%) in the rituximab arm experienced serious 
infections.
In the post marketing setting, serious viral infections have been reported in PV patients treated with 
rituximab.
Laboratory abnormalities
In PV Study 2, in the rituximab arm, transient decreases in lymphocyte count, driven by decreases in 
the peripheral T-cell populations, as well as a transient decrease in phosphorus level were very 
commonly observed post-infusion. These were considered to be induced by IV methylprednisolone 
premedication infusion.
In PV Study 2, low IgG levels were commonly observed and low IgM levels were very commonly 
observed; however, there was no evidence of an increased risk of serious infections after the 
development of low IgG or IgM.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Limited experience with doses higher than the approved dose of intravenous rituximab formulation is 
available from clinical trials in humans. The highest intravenous dose of rituximab tested in humans to 
date is 5,000 mg (2,250 mg/m²), tested in a dose escalation study in patients with CLL. No additional 
safety signals were identified.
Patients who experience overdose should have immediate interruption of their infusion and be closely 
monitored.
In the post-marketing setting five cases of rituximab overdose have been reported. Three cases had no 
reported adverse event. The two adverse events that were reported were flu-like symptoms, with a 
dose of 1.8 g of rituximab and fatal respiratory failure, with a dose of 2 g of rituximab.
33
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antineoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies, ATC code: L01FA01
Riximyo is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
Rituximab binds specifically to the transmembrane antigen, CD20, a non-glycosylated 
phosphoprotein, located on pre-B and mature B lymphocytes. The antigen is expressed on > 95% of all 
B cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas.
CD20 is found on both normal and malignant B cells, but not on haematopoietic stem cells, pro-B 
cells, normal plasma cells or other normal tissue. This antigen does not internalise upon antibody 
binding and is not shed from the cell surface. CD20 does not circulate in the plasma as a free antigen 
and, thus, does not compete for antibody binding.
The Fab domain of rituximab binds to the CD20 antigen on B lymphocytes and the Fc domain can 
recruit immune effector functions to mediate B cell lysis. Possible mechanisms of effector-mediated 
cell lysis include complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) resulting from C1q binding, and 
antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) mediated by one or more of the Fcγ receptors on the 
surface of granulocytes, macrophages and NK cells. Rituximab binding to CD 20 antigen on B 
lymphocytes has also been demonstrated to induce cell death via apoptosis.
Peripheral B cell counts declined below normal following completion of the first dose of rituximab. In 
patients treated for haematological malignancies, B cell recovery began within 6 months of treatment 
and generally returned to normal levels within 12 months after completion of therapy, although in 
some patients this may take longer (up to a median recovery time of 23 months post-induction 
therapy). In rheumatoid arthritis patients, immediate depletion of B cells in the peripheral blood was 
observed following two infusions of 1,000 mg rituximab separated by a 14-day interval. Peripheral 
blood B cell counts begin to increase from Week 24 and evidence for repopulation is observed in the 
majority of patients by Week 40, whether rituximab was administered as monotherapy or in 
combination with methotrexate. A small proportion of patients had prolonged peripheral B cell 
depletion lasting 2 years or more after their last dose of rituximab. In patients with GPA or MPA, the 
number of peripheral blood B cells decreased to < 10 cells/μL after two weekly infusions of rituximab 
375 mg/m2, and remained at that level in most patients up to the 6 month time point. The majority of 
patients (81%) showed signs of B cell return, with counts > 10 cells/μL by month 12, increasing to 
87% of patients by month 18.
Clinical experience in Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) and in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Follicular lymphoma
Monotherapy
Initial treatment, weekly for 4 doses
In the pivotal trial, 166 patients with relapsed or chemoresistant low-grade or follicular B cell NHL 
received 375 mg/m2 of rituximab as an intravenous infusion once weekly for four weeks. The overall 
response rate (ORR) in the intent-to-treat (ITT) population was 48% (CI95% 41%-56%) with a 6% 
complete response (CR) and a 42% partial response (PR) rate. The projected median time to 
progression (TTP) for responding patients was 13.0 months. In a subgroup analysis, the ORR was 
higher in patients with IWF B, C, and D histological subtypes as compared to IWF A subtype (58% 
vs. 12%), higher in patients whose largest lesion was < 5 cm vs. > 7 cm in greatest diameter (53% vs. 
38%), and higher in patients with chemosensitive relapse as compared to chemoresistant (defined as 
duration of response < 3 months) relapse (50% vs. 22%). ORR in patients previously treated with 
autologous bone marrow transplant (ABMT) was 78% versus 43% in patients with no ABMT. Neither 
34
age, sex, lymphoma grade, initial diagnosis, presence or absence of bulky disease, normal or high 
LDH nor presence of extranodal disease had a statistically significant effect (Fisher’s exact test) on 
response to rituximab. A statistically significant correlation was noted between response rates and 
bone marrow involvement. 40% of patients with bone marrow involvement responded compared to 
59% of patients with no bone marrow involvement (p=0.0186). This finding was not supported by a 
stepwise logistic regression analysis in which the following factors were identified as prognostic 
factors: histological type, bcl-2 positivity at baseline, resistance to last chemotherapy and bulky 
disease.
Initial treatment, weekly for 8 doses
In a multi-centre, single-arm trial, 37 patients with relapsed or chemoresistant, low grade or follicular 
B cell NHL received 375 mg/m2 of rituximab as intravenous infusion weekly for eight doses. The 
ORR was 57% (95% Confidence interval (CI); 41% – 73%; CR 14%, PR 43%) with a projected 
median TTP for responding patients of 19.4 months (range 5.3 to 38.9 months).
Initial treatment, bulky disease, weekly for 4 doses
In pooled data from three trials, 39 patients with relapsed or chemoresistant, bulky disease (single 
lesion ≥ 10 cm in diameter), low grade or follicular B cell NHL received 375 mg/m2 of rituximab as 
intravenous infusion weekly for four doses. The ORR was 36% (CI95% 21% – 51%; CR 3%, PR 33%) 
with a median TTP for responding patients of 9.6 months (range 4.5 to 26.8 months).
Re-treatment, weekly for 4 doses
In a multi-centre, single-arm trial, 58 patients with relapsed or chemoresistant low grade or follicular 
B cell NHL, who had achieved an objective clinical response to a prior course of rituximab, were 
re-treated with 375 mg/m2 of rituximab as intravenous infusion weekly for four doses. Three of the 
patients had received two courses of rituximab before enrolment and thus were given a third course in 
the study. Two patients were re-treated twice in the study. For the 60 re-treatments on study, the ORR 
was 38% (CI95% 26% – 51%; CR 10%, PR 28%) with a projected median TTP for responding patients 
of 17.8 months (range 5.4–26.6). This compares favourably with the TTP achieved after the prior 
course of rituximab (12.4 months).
Initial treatment, in combination with chemotherapy
In an open-label randomised trial, a total of 322 previously untreated patients with follicular 
lymphoma were randomised to receive either CVP chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2, 
vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 2 mg on Day 1, and prednisolone 40 mg/m2/day on days 1 -
 5) every 3 weeks for 8 cycles or rituximab 375 mg/m2 in combination with CVP (R-CVP). Rituximab 
was administered on the first day of each treatment cycle. A total of 321 patients (162 R-CVP, 
159 CVP) received therapy and were analysed for efficacy. The median follow-up of patients was 
53 months. R-CVP led to a significant benefit over CVP for the primary endpoint, time to treatment 
failure (27 months vs. 6.6 months, p < 0.0001, log-rank test). The proportion of patients with a tumour 
response (CR, CRu, PR) was significantly higher (p < 0.0001 Chi-Square test) in the R-CVP group 
(80.9%) than the CVP group (57.2%). Treatment with R-CVP significantly prolonged the time to 
disease progression or death compared to CVP, 33.6 months and 14.7 months, respectively 
(p < 0.0001, log-rank test). The median duration of response was 37.7 months in the R-CVP group and 
was 13.5 months in the CVP group (p < 0.0001, log-rank test).
The difference between the treatment groups with respect to overall survival showed a significant 
clinical difference (p=0.029, log-rank test stratified by centre): survival rates at 53 months were 80.9% 
for patients in the R-CVP group compared to 71.1% for patients in the CVP group.
Results from three other randomised trials using rituximab in combination with chemotherapy regimen 
other than CVP (CHOP, MCP, CHVP/Interferon-α) have also demonstrated significant improvements 
in response rates, time-dependent parameters as well as in overall survival. Key results from all four 
studies are summarised in Table 8.
35
Table 8
Summary of key results from four phase III randomised studies evaluating the 
benefit of rituximab with different chemotherapy regimens in follicular lymphoma
Study
Treatment, N Median 
ORR, % CR, % Median 
OS rates, %
FU, 
months
53
18
47
M39021
CVP, 159
R-CVP, 162
GLSG’00
CHOP, 205
R-CHOP, 223
OSHO-39
MCP, 96
R-MCP, 105
42
FL2000
CHVP-IFN, 
183
R-CHVP- 
IFN, 175
EFS – Event Free Survival
TTP – Time to progression or death
PFS – Progression-Free Survival
TTF – Time to Treatment Failure
OS rates – survival rates at the time of the analyses
TTF/PFS/ EFS, 
months
Median TTP:
14.7
33.6
p < 0.0001
Median TTF: 2.6 
years
Not reached
p < 0.001
Median PFS: 28.8
Not reached
p < 0.0001
Median EFS: 36
Not reached
p < 0.0001
10
41
17
20
25
50
49
76
53-months
71.1
80.9
p=0.029
18-months
90
95
p=0.016
48-months
74
87
p=0.0096
42-months
84
91
p=0.029
57
81
90
96
75
92
85
94
Maintenance therapy
Previously untreated follicular lymphoma
In a prospective, open label, international, multi-centre, phase III trial 1,193 patients with previously 
untreated advanced follicular lymphoma received induction therapy with R-CHOP (n=881), R-CVP 
(n=268) or R-FCM (n=44), according to the investigators’ choice. A total of 1,078 patients responded 
to induction therapy, of which 1,018 were randomised to rituximab maintenance therapy (n=505) or 
observation (n=513). The two treatment groups were well balanced with regards to baseline 
characteristics and disease status. Rituximab maintenance treatment consisted of a single infusion of 
rituximab at 375 mg/m2 body surface area given every 2 months until disease progression or for a 
maximum period of two years.
The pre-specified primary analysis was conducted at a median observation time of 25 months from 
randomization, maintenance therapy with rituximab resulted in a clinically relevant and statistically 
significant improvement in the primary endpoint of investigator assessed progression-free survival 
(PFS) as compared to observation in patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma (Table 9).
Significant benefit from maintenance treatment with rituximab was also seen for the secondary 
endpoints event-free survival (EFS), time to next anti-lymphoma treatment (TNLT) time to next 
chemotherapy (TNCT) and overall response rate (ORR) in the primary analysis (Table 9). 
Data from extended follow up of patients in the study (median follow-up 9 years) confirmed the long-
term benefit of rituximab maintenance therapy in terms of PFS, EFS, TNLT, and TNCT (Table 9).
36
Table 9
Overview of efficacy results for rituximab maintenance vs. observation at the 
protocol-defined primary analysis and after 9 years median follow-up (final 
analysis)
Primary analysis 
(median FU: 25 
months)
Final analysis 
(median FU:9.0 years)
Observation 
N=513
Rituximab 
N=505
Observation 
N=513
Rituximab 
N=505
NR                    NR
0.7246
0.89 (0.45, 1.74)
11%
NR                    NR
<0.0001
0.50 (0.39, 0.64)
50%
NR                    NR
0.7948
1.04 (0.77, 1.40)
-6%
4.06 years           10.49 years
<0.0001
0.61 (0.52, 0.73)
39%
Primary efficacy 
Progression-free survival 
(median) 
log-rank p value
hazard ratio (95% CI)
risk reduction
Secondary efficacy 
Overall survival 
(median) 
log-rank p value
hazard ratio (95% CI)
risk reduction
Event-free survival (median) 
log-rank p value
hazard ratio (95% CI)
risk reduction
TNLT (median) 
log-rank p value
hazard ratio (95% CI)
risk reduction
TNCT (median) 
log-rank p value
hazard ratio (95% CI)
risk reduction
Overall response rate* 
chi-squared test p value 
odds ratio (95% CI) 
Complete response (CR/CRu) rate* 
chi-squared test p value 
odds ratio (95% CI)
* at end of maintenance/observation; final analysis results based on median follow-up of 73 months. 
FU: follow-up; NR: not reached at time of clinical cut off, TNCT: time to next chemotherapy treatment; TNLT: 
time to next anti lymphoma treatment.
4.04 years           9.25 years
<0.0001
0.64 (0.54, 0.76)
36%
6.11 years           NR
<0.0001
0.66 (0.55, 0.78)
34%
9.32 years           NR
0.0004
0.71 (0.59, 0.86)
39%
61%                    79%
<0.0001
2.43 (1.84, 3.22)
53%                    67%
<0.0001
2.34 (1.80, 3.03)
38 months           NR
<0.0001
0.54 (0.43, 0.69)
46%
NR                    NR
0.0003
0.61 (0.46, 0.80)
39%
NR                    NR
0.0011
0.60 (0.44, 0.82)
40%
55%                    74%
<0.0001
2.33 (1.73, 3.15)
48%                    67%
<0.0001
2.21 (1.65, 2.94)
Rituximab maintenance treatment provided consistent benefit in all predefined subgroups tested: 
gender (male, female), age (< 60 years, >= 60 years), FLIPI score (<=1, 2 or >= 3), induction therapy 
(R-CHOP, R-CVP or R-FCM) and regardless of the quality of response to induction treatment (CR, 
CRu or PR). Exploratory analyses of the benefit of maintenance treatment showed a less pronounced 
effect in elderly patients (> 70 years of age), however sample sizes were small.
Relapsed/Refractory follicular lymphoma
In a prospective, open label, international, multi-centre, phase III trial, 465 patients with 
relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma were randomised in a first step to induction therapy with 
either CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisolone; n=231) or rituximab plus 
CHOP (R-CHOP, n=234). The two treatment groups were well balanced with regard to baseline 
characteristics and disease status. A total of 334 patients achieving a complete or partial remission 
following induction therapy were randomised in a second step to rituximab maintenance therapy 
37
(n=167) or observation (n=167). Rituximab maintenance treatment consisted of a single infusion of 
rituximab at 375 mg/m2 body surface area given every 3 months until disease progression or for a 
maximum period of two years.
The final efficacy analysis included all patients randomised to both parts of the study. After a median 
observation time of 31 months for patients randomised to the induction phase, R-CHOP significantly 
improved the outcome of patients with relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma when compared to 
CHOP (see Table 10).
Table 10
Induction phase: overview of efficacy results for CHOP vs. R-CHOP (31 months 
median observation time)
Primary efficacy
CHOP
R-CHOP
p-value
Risk reduction1)
ORR2)
CR2)
PR2)
1) Estimates were calculated by hazard ratios
2) Last tumour response as assessed by the investigator. The “primary” statistical test for “response” was the 
0.0003
0.0005
0.9449
87%
29%
58%
74%
16%
58%
NA
NA
NA
trend test of CR versus PR versus non-response (p < 0.0001)
Abbreviations: NA, not available; ORR: overall response rate; CR: complete response; PR: partial response
For patients randomised to the maintenance phase of the trial, the median observation time was 
28 months from maintenance randomisation. Maintenance treatment with rituximab led to a clinically 
relevant and statistically significant improvement in the primary endpoint, PFS, (time from 
maintenance randomisation to relapse, disease progression or death) when compared to observation 
alone (p < 0.0001 log-rank test). The median PFS was 42.2 months in the rituximab maintenance arm 
compared to 14.3 months in the observation arm. Using a cox regression analysis, the risk of 
experiencing progressive disease or death was reduced by 61% with rituximab maintenance treatment 
when compared to observation (95% CI; 45% - 72%). Kaplan-Meier estimated progression- free rates 
at 12 months were 78% in the rituximab maintenance group vs. 57% in the observation group. An 
analysis of overall survival confirmed the significant benefit of rituximab maintenance over 
observation (p=0.0039 log-rank test). Rituximab maintenance treatment reduced the risk of death by 
56% (95% CI; 22% - 75%).
Table 11 Maintenance phase: overview of efficacy results rituximab vs. observation 
(28 months median observation time)
Efficacy parameter
Progression-free survival 
(PFS)
Overall survival
Time to new lymphoma 
treatment
Disease-free survivala
Risk
reduction
61%
56%
50%
67%
Kaplan-Meier estimate of
median time to event (months)
Rituximab
(N=167)
42.2
Observation
(N=167)
14.3
Log-rank 
p value
< 0.0001
NR
20.1
16.5
NR
38.8
53.7
0.0039
< 0.0001
0.0003
38
Efficacy parameter
Subgroup analysis
PFS
Kaplan-Meier estimate of
median time to event (months)
Rituximab
(N=167)
Observation
(N=167)
Log-rank 
p value
CHOP
R-CHOP
CR
PR
11.6
22.1
14.3
14.3
37.5
51.9
52.8
37.8
OS
CHOP
R-CHOP
NR: not reached; a: only applicable to patients achieving a CR
NR
NR
NR
NR
< 0.0001
0.0071
0.0008
< 0.0001
0.0348
0.0482
Risk
reduction
71%
46%
64%
54%
55%
56%
The benefit of rituximab maintenance treatment was confirmed in all subgroups analysed, regardless 
of induction regimen (CHOP or R-CHOP) or quality of response to induction treatment (CR or PR) 
(Table 11). Rituximab maintenance treatment significantly prolonged median PFS in patients 
responding to CHOP induction therapy (median PFS 37.5 months vs. 11.6 months, p < 0.0001) as well 
as in those responding to R-CHOP induction (median PFS 51.9 months vs. 22.1 months, p=0.0071). 
Although subgroups were small, rituximab maintenance treatment provided a significant benefit in 
terms of overall survival for both patients responding to CHOP and patients responding to R-CHOP, 
although longer follow-up is required to confirm this observation.
Adult diffuse large B cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
In a randomised, open-label trial, a total of 399 previously untreated elderly patients 
(age 60 to 80 years) with diffuse large B cell lymphoma received standard CHOP chemotherapy 
(cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2, vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 
2 mg on Day 1, and prednisolone 40 mg/m2/day on Days 1-5) every 3 weeks for eight cycles, or 
rituximab 375 mg/m2 plus CHOP (R-CHOP). Rituximab was administered on the first day of the 
treatment cycle.
The final efficacy analysis included all randomised patients (197 CHOP, 202 R-CHOP), and had a 
median follow-up duration of approximately 31 months. The two treatment groups were well balanced 
in baseline disease characteristics and disease status. The final analysis confirmed that R-CHOP 
treatment was associated with a clinically relevant and statistically significant improvement in the 
duration of event-free survival (the primary efficacy parameter; where events were death, relapse or 
progression of lymphoma, or institution of a new anti-lymphoma treatment) (p=0.0001). Kaplan Meier 
estimates of the median duration of event-free survival were 35 months in the R-CHOP arm compared 
to 13 months in the CHOP arm, representing a risk reduction of 41%. At 24 months, estimates for 
overall survival were 68.2% in the R-CHOP arm compared to 57.4% in the CHOP arm. A subsequent 
analysis of the duration of overall survival, carried out with a median follow-up duration of 60 months, 
confirmed the benefit of R-CHOP over CHOP treatment (p=0.0071), representing a risk reduction of 
32%.
The analysis of all secondary parameters (response rates, progression-free survival, disease-free 
survival, duration of response) verified the treatment effect of R-CHOP compared to CHOP. The 
complete response rate after cycle 8 was 76.2% in the R-CHOP group and 62.4% in the CHOP group 
(p=0.0028). The risk of disease progression was reduced by 46% and the risk of relapse by 51%. In all 
patients subgroups (gender, age, age adjusted IPI, Ann Arbor stage, ECOG, β2 microglobulin, LDH, 
albumin, B symptoms, bulky disease, extranodal sites, bone marrow involvement), the risk ratios for 
event-free survival and overall survival (R-CHOP compared with CHOP) were less than 0.83 and 0.95 
39
respectively. R-CHOP was associated with improvements in outcome for both high- and low-risk 
patients according to age adjusted IPI.
Clinical laboratory findings
Of 67 patients evaluated for human anti-mouse antibody (HAMA), no responses were noted. Of 
356 patients evaluated for anti-drug antibody (ADA), 1.1% (4 patients) were positive.
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
In two open-label randomised trials, a total of 817 previously untreated patients and 552 patients with 
relapsed/refractory CLL were randomised to receive either FC chemotherapy (fludarabine 25 mg/m2, 
cyclophosphamide 250 mg/m2, days 1-3) every 4 weeks for 6 cycles or rituximab in combination with 
FC (R-FC). Rituximab was administered at a dose of 375 mg/m2 during the first cycle one day prior to 
chemotherapy and at a dose of 500 mg/m2 on Day 1 of each subsequent treatment cycle. Patients were 
excluded from the study in relapsed/refractory CLL if they had previously been treated with 
monoclonal antibodies or if they were refractory (defined as failure to achieve a partial remission for 
at least 6 months) to fludarabine or any nucleoside analogue. A total of 810 patients (403 R-FC, 
407 FC) for the first-line study (Table 12a and Table 12b) and 552 patients (276 R-FC, 276 FC) for the 
relapsed/refractory study (Table 13) were analysed for efficacy.
In the first-line study, after a median observation time of 48.1 months, the median PFS was 55 months 
in the R-FC group and 33 months in the FC group (p < 0.0001, log-rank test). The analysis of overall 
survival showed a significant benefit of R-FC treatment over FC chemotherapy alone (p=0.0319, 
log-rank test) (Table 12a). The benefit in terms of PFS was consistently observed in most patient 
subgroups analysed according to disease risk at baseline (i.e. Binet stages A-C) (Table 12b).
Table 12a First-line treatment of CLL
Overview of efficacy results for rituximab plus FC vs. FC alone – 48.1 months 
median observation time
Risk
reduction
Efficacy parameter
Progression-free survival (PFS)
Overall survival
Event free survival
Response rate (CR, nPR, or PR)
CR rates
Duration of response*
Disease free survival (DFS)**
Time to new treatment
FC
(N=409)
32.8
NR
31.3
72.6%
16.9%
36.2
48.9
47.2
Response rate and CR rates analysed using Chi-squared Test. NR: not reached; n.a.: not applicable
*: only applicable to patients achieving a CR, nPR, PR
**: only applicable to patients achieving a CR
Kaplan-Meier estimate of
median time to event (months)
R-FC 
(N=408)
55.3
NR
51.8
85.8%
36.0%
57.3
60.3
69.7
Log-rank 
p value
< 0.0001
0.0319
< 0.0001
< 0.0001
< 0.0001
< 0.0001
0.0520
< 0.0001
45%
27%
44%
n.a.
n.a.
44%
31%
42%
40
Table 12b First-line treatment of CLL
Hazard ratios of progression-free survival according to Binet stage (ITT) – 
48.1 months median observation time
Progression-free survival (PFS)
Binet stage A
Binet stage B
Binet stage C
CI: Confidence Interval
Number of 
patients
Hazard ratio
(95% CI)
FC
22
259
126
R-FC
18
263
126
0.39 (0.15; 0.98)
0.52 (0.41; 0.66)
0.68 (0.49; 0.95)
p-value 
(Wald test, 
not adjusted)
0.0442
< 0.0001
0.0224
In the relapsed/refractory study, the median progression-free survival (primary endpoint) was 
30.6 months in the R-FC group and 20.6 months in the FC group (p=0.0002, log-rank test). The 
benefit in terms of PFS was observed in almost all patient subgroups analysed according to disease 
risk at baseline. A slight but not significant improvement in overall survival was reported in the R-FC 
compared to the FC arm.
Table 13
Treatment of relapsed/refractory CLL - overview of efficacy results for rituximab 
plus FC vs. FC alone (25.3 months median observation time)
Efficacy parameter
Progression-free survival (PFS)
Overall survival
Event free survival
Response rate (CR, nPR, or PR)
Kaplan-Meier estimate of
median time to event (months)
FC
(N=276)
20.6
51.9
19.3
58.0%
R-FC 
(N=276)
30.6
NR
28.7
69.9%
Log-rank 
p value
0.0002
0.2874
0.0002
0.0034
CR rates
13.0%
24.3%
0.0007
Duration of response *
Disease free survival (DFS)**
Time to new CLL treatment
27.6
42.2
34.2
39.6
39.6
NR
0.0252
0.8842
0.0024
Response rate and CR rates analysed using Chi-squared Test.
*: only applicable to patients achieving a CR, nPR, PR; NR: not reached; n.a. not applicable
**: only applicable to patients achieving a CR;
Risk
reduction
35%
17%
36%
n.a.
n.a.
31%
-6%
35%
Results from other supportive studies using rituximab in combination with other chemotherapy 
regimens (including CHOP, FCM, PC, PCM, bendamustine and cladribine) for the treatment of 
previously untreated and/or relapsed/refractory CLL patients have also demonstrated high overall 
response rates with benefit in terms of PFS rates, albeit with modestly higher toxicity (especially 
myelotoxicity). These studies support the use of rituximab with any chemotherapy.
Data in approximately 180 patients pre-treated with rituximab have demonstrated clinical benefit 
(including CR) and are supportive for rituximab re-treatment.
Paediatric population
A multicentre, open-label, randomised study of Lymphome Malin B (LMB) chemotherapy 
(corticosteroids, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, high-dose methotrexate, cytarabine, doxorubicin, 
etoposide and triple drug [methotrexate/cytarabine/ corticosteroid] intrathecal therapy) alone or in 
combination with rituximab was conducted in paediatric patients with previously untreated advanced 
stage CD20 positive DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL. Advanced stage is defined as Stage III with elevated 
LDH level (“B-high”), (LDH > twice the institutional upper limit of the adult normal values [> Nx2]) 
41
or any stage IV or BAL. Patients were randomised to receive either LMB chemotherapy or six 
intravenous infusions of rituximab at a dose of 375 mg/m2 BSA in combination with LMB 
chemotherapy (two during each of the two induction courses and one during each of the two 
consolidation courses) as per the LMB scheme. A total of 328 randomised patients were included in 
the efficacy analyses, of which one patient under 3 years of age received rituximab in combination 
with LMB chemotherapy. 
The two treatment arms, LMB (LMB chemotherapy) and R-LMB (LMB chemotherapy with 
rituximab), were well balanced with regards to baseline characteristics. Patients had a median age of 7 
and 8 years in the LMB arm and R-LMB arm, respectively. Approximately half of patients were in 
Group B (50.6% in the LMB arm and 49.4% in the R-LMB arm), 39.6% in Group C1 in both arms, 
and 9.8% and 11.0% were in Group C3 in the LMB and R-LMB arms, respectively. Based on Murphy 
staging, most patients were either BL stage III (45.7% in the LMB arm and 43.3% in the R-LMB arm) 
or BAL, CNS negative (21.3% in the LMB arm and 24.4% in the R-LMB arm). Less than half of the 
patients (45.1% in both arms) had bone marrow involvement, and most patients (72.6% in the LMB 
arm and 73.2% in the R-LMB arm) had no CNS involvement. The primary efficacy endpoint was 
EFS, where an event was defined as occurrence of progressive disease, relapse, second malignancy, 
death from any cause, or non-response as evidenced by detection of viable cells in residue after the 
second CYVE course, whichever occurs first. The secondary efficacy endpoints were OS and CR 
(complete remission). 
At the pre-specified interim analysis with approximately 1 year of median follow-up, clinically 
relevant improvement in the primary endpoint of EFS was observed, with 1-year rate estimates of 
94.2% (95% CI, 88.5% - 97.2%) in the R-LMB arm vs. 81.5% (95% CI, 73.0% - 87.8%) in the LMB 
arm, and adjusted Cox HR 0.33 (95% CI, 0.14 – 0.79). Upon IDMC (independent data monitoring 
committee) recommendation based on this result, the randomization was halted and patients in the 
LMB arm were allowed to cross over to receive rituximab. 
Primary efficacy analyses were performed in 328 randomised patients with a median follow-up of 
3.1 years. The results are described in Table 14.
Table 14 Overview of primary efficacy results (ITT population)
Analysis
EFS
3-year EFS rates
OS
LMB (N = 164)
28 events
R-LMB (N = 164)
10 events
One-sided log-rank test p-value 0.0006
Adjusted Cox HR 0.32 (90% CI: 0.17, 0.58)
93.9%
82.3%
(95% CI: 89.1%, 96.7%)
(95% CI: 75.7%, 87.5%)
8 deaths
20 deaths
One-sided log-rank test p-value 0.0061
Adjusted Cox model HR 0.36 (95% CI: 0.16; 0.81)
3-year OS rates
CR rate
87.3%
(95% CI: 81.2%, 91.6%)
93.6% (95% CI: 88.2%; 97.0%)
95.1%
(95% CI: 90.5%, 97.5%)
94.0% (95% CI: 88.8%, 97.2%)
The primary efficacy analysis showed an EFS benefit of rituximab addition to LMB chemotherapy 
over LMB chemotherapy alone, with an EFS HR 0.32 (90% CI 0.17 - 0.58) from a Cox regression 
analysis adjusting for national group, histology, and therapeutic group. While no major differences in 
numbers of patients achieving CR was observed between the two treatment groups, the benefit of 
rituximab addition to LMB chemotherapy was also shown in the secondary endpoint of OS, with the 
OS HR of 0.36 (95% CI, 0.16 – 0.81).
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
rituximab in all subsets of the paediatric population with follicular lymphoma and CLL, and in the 
paediatric population from birth to < 6 months of age in CD20 positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. 
See section 4.2 for information on paediatric use.
42
Clinical experience in rheumatoid arthritis
The efficacy and safety of rituximab in alleviating the symptoms and signs of rheumatoid arthritis in 
patients with an inadequate response to TNF-inhibitors was demonstrated in a pivotal randomised, 
controlled, double-blind, multicenter trial (Trial 1).
Trial 1 evaluated 517 patients that had experienced an inadequate response or intolerance to one or 
more TNF inhibitor therapies. Eligible patients had active rheumatoid arthritis, diagnosed according to 
the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR). Rituximab was administered as two 
intravenous infusions separated by an interval of 15 days. Patients received 2 x 1,000 mg intravenous 
infusions of rituximab or placebo in combination with MTX. All patients received concomitant 60 mg 
oral prednisone on days 2-7 and 30 mg on days 8-14 following the first infusion. The primary endpoint 
was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR20 response at week 24. Patients were followed 
beyond week 24 for long term endpoints, including radiographic assessment at 56 weeks and at 
104 weeks. During this time, 81% of patients, from the original placebo group received rituximab 
between weeks 24 and 56, under an open label extension study protocol.
Trials of rituximab in patients with early arthritis (patients without prior methotrexate treatment and 
patients with an inadequate response to methotrexate, but not yet treated with TNF-alpha inhibitors) 
have met their primary endpoints. Rituximab is not indicated for these patients, since the safety data 
about long-term rituximab treatment are insufficient, in particular concerning the risk of development 
of malignancies and PML.
Disease activity outcomes
Rituximab in combination with methotrexate significantly increased the proportion of patients 
achieving at least a 20% improvement in ACR score compared with patients treated with methotrexate 
alone (Table 15). Across all development studies the treatment benefit was similar in patients 
independent of age, gender, body surface area, race, number of prior treatments or disease status.
Clinically and statistically significant improvement was also noted on all individual components of the 
ACR response (tender and swollen joint counts, patient and physician global assessment, disability 
index scores (HAQ), pain assessment and C-Reactive Proteins (mg/dL).
Table 15
Clinical response outcomes at primary endpoint in Trial 1 (ITT population)
Outcome†
Placebo+MTX
Rituximab+MTX
(2 x 1,000 mg)
N=298
153 (51%)***
80 (27%)***
37 (12%)***
193 (65%)***
Trial 1
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
EULAR response
(good/moderate)
Mean change in DAS
N=201
36 (18%)
11 (5%)
3 (1%)
44 (22%)
-0.34
-1.83***
† Outcome at 24 weeks
Significant difference from placebo + MTX at the primary timepoint: ***p ≤ 0.0001
Patients treated with rituximab in combination with methotrexate had a significantly greater reduction 
in disease activity score (DAS28) than patients treated with methotrexate alone (Table 15). Similarly, 
a good to moderate European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) response was achieved by 
significantly more rituximab treated patients treated with rituximab and methotrexate compared to 
patients treated with methotrexate alone (Table 15).
Radiographic response
Structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in modified Total 
Sharp Score (mTSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space narrowing score.
43
In Trial 1, conducted in patients with inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF inhibitor 
therapies, receiving rituximab in combination with methotrexate demonstrated significantly less 
radiographic progression than patients originally receiving methotrexate alone at 56 weeks. Of the 
patients originally receiving methotrexate alone, 81% received rituximab either as rescue between 
weeks 16-24 or in the extension trial, before week 56. A higher proportion of patients receiving the 
original rituximab/MTX treatment also had no erosive progression over 56 weeks (Table 16).
Table 16
Radiographic outcomes at 1 year (mITT population)
Placebo+MTX
Rituximab+MTX
2 x 1,000 mg
(n=273)
(n=184)
Trial 1
Mean change from baseline:
Modified total sharp score
Erosion score
Joint space narrowing score
Proportion of patients with no 
radiographic change
Proportion of patients with no erosive 
change
150 patients originally randomised to placebo + MTX in Trial 1 received at least one course of RTX + MTX by 
one year * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.001. Abbreviation: NS, non-significant
1.01*
0.60*
0.41**
53%, NS
2.30
1.32
0.98
46%
60%, NS
52%
Inhibition of the rate of progressive joint damage was also observed long term. Radiographic analysis 
at 2 years in Trial 1 demonstrated significantly reduced progression of structural joint damage in 
patients receiving rituximab in combination with methotrexate compared to methotrexate alone as well 
as a significantly higher proportion of patients with no progression of joint damage over the 2-year 
period.
Physical function and quality of life outcomes
Significant reductions in disability index (HAQ-DI) and fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue) scores were 
observed in patients treated with rituximab compared to patients treated with methotrexate alone. The 
proportions of rituximab treated patients showing a minimal clinically important difference (MCID) in 
HAQ-DI (defined as an individual total score decrease of > 0.22) was also higher than among patients 
receiving methotrexate alone (Table 17).
Significant improvement in health-related quality of life was also demonstrated with significant 
improvement in both the physical health score (PHS) and mental health score (MHS) of the SF-36. 
Further, significantly higher proportion of patients achieved MCIDs for these scores (Table 17). 
Table 17
Physical function and quality of life outcomes at week 24 in Trial 1
Outcome†
Placebo+MTX
Mean change in HAQ-DI
% HAQ-DI MCID
Mean change in FACIT-T
n=201
0.1
20%
-0.5
n=197
Rituximab+MTX
(2 x 1,000 mg)
n=298
-0.4***
51%
-9.1***
n=294
Mean change in SF-36 PHS
% SF-36 PHS MCID
Mean change in SF-36 MHS
% SF-36 MHS MCID
† Outcome at 24 weeks
Significant difference from placebo at the primary time point: * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.001, *** p ≤ 0.0001
5.8***
48%***
4.7**
38%*
0.9
13%
1.3
20%
44
MCID HAQ-DI ≥ 0.22, MCID SF-36 PHS > 5.42, MCID SF-36 MHS > 6.33
Efficacy in autoantibody (RF and or anti-CCP) seropositive patients
Patients seropositive to Rheumatoid Factor (RF) and/or anti-Cyclic Citrullinated Peptide (anti-CCP) 
who were treated with rituximab in combination with methotrexate showed an enhanced response 
compared to patients negative to both.
Efficacy outcomes in rituximab treated patients were analysed based on autoantibody status prior to 
commencing treatment. At week 24, patients who were seropositive to RF and/or anti-CCP at baseline 
had a significantly increased probability of achieving ACR20 and 50 responses compared to 
seronegative patients (p=0.0312 and p=0.0096) (Table 18). These findings were replicated at week 48, 
where autoantibody seropositivity also significantly increased the probability of achieving ACR70. At 
week 48 seropositive patients were 2-3 times more likely to achieve ACR responses compared to 
seronegative patients. Seropositive patients also had a significantly greater decrease in DAS28-ESR 
compared to seronegative patients (Figure 1).
Table 18
Summary of efficacy by baseline autoantibody status
Week 24
Week 48
Seropositive
(n=514)
62.3*
32.7*
12.1
74.8*
-1.97**
Seronegative
(n=106)
50.9
19.8
5.7
62.9
-1.50
Seropositive
(n=506)
71. 1*
44.9**
20.9*
84.3*
-2.48***
Seronegative
(n=101)
51.5
22.8
6.9
72.3
-1.72
ACR20 (%)
ACR50 (%)
ACR70 (%)
EULAR response (%)
Mean change DAS28-
ESR
Significance levels were defined as * p <0.05, ** p < 0.001, *** p < 0.0001.
Figure 1: Change from baseline of DAS28-ESR by baseline autoantibody status
Long-term efficacy with multiple course therapy
Treatment with rituximab in combination with methotrexate over multiple courses resulted in 
sustained improvements in the clinical signs and symptoms of RA, as indicated by ACR, DAS28-ESR 
and EULAR responses which was evident in all patient populations studied (Figure 2). Sustained 
45
improvement in physical function as indicated by the HAQ-DI score and the proportion of patients 
achieving MCID for HAQ-DI were observed.
Figure 2: ACR responses for 4 treatment courses (24 weeks after each course (within patient, 
within visit) in patients with an inadequate response to TNF-inhibitors (n=146)
Clinical laboratory findings
A total of 392/3,095 (12.7%) patients with rheumatoid arthritis tested positive for ADA in clinical 
studies following therapy with rituximab. The emergence of ADA was not associated with clinical 
deterioration or with an increased risk of reactions to subsequent infusions in the majority of patients. 
The presence of ADA may be associated with worsening of infusion or allergic reactions after the 
second infusion of subsequent courses.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
rituximab in all subsets of the paediatric population with autoimmune arthritis. See section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use.
Clinical experience in granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Adult induction of remission
In GPA/MPA Study 1, total of 197 patients aged 15 years or older with severe, active GPA (75%) and 
MPA (24%) were enrolled and treated in an active-comparator, randomised, double-blind, multicenter, 
non-inferiority trial.
Patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive either oral cyclophosphamide daily (2 mg/kg/day) 
for 3-6 months or rituximab (375 mg/m2) once weekly for 4 weeks. All patients in the 
cyclophosphamide arm received azathioprine maintenance therapy in during follow-up. Patients in 
both arms received 1,000 mg of pulse intravenous methylprednisolone (or another equivalent-dose 
glucocorticoid) per day for 1 to 3 days, followed by oral prednisone (1 mg/kg/day, not exceeding 
80 mg/day). Prednisone tapering was to be completed by 6 months from the start of trial treatment.
The primary outcome measure was achievement of complete remission at 6 months defined as a 
Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score for Wegener’s granulomatosis (BVAS/WG) of 0, and off 
glucocorticoid therapy. The prespecified non-inferiority margin for the treatment difference was 20%. 
The trial demonstrated non-inferiority of rituximab to cyclophosphamide for complete remission (CR) 
at 6 months (Table 19).
46
Efficacy was observed both for patients with newly diagnosed disease and for patients with relapsing 
disease (Table 20).
Table 19
Percentage of adult patients who achieved complete remission at 6 months (intent-
to-treat population*)
Rituximab (n=99)
Cyclophosphamide
(n=98)
Rate
63.6%
53.1%
Treatment difference 
(rituximab- 
cyclophosphamide)
10.6%
95.1%b CI (-3.2%, 
24.3%)a
CI = confidence interval.
* Worst case imputation
−
−
a Non-inferiority was demonstrated since the lower bound (-3.2%) was higher than the pre-
determined non-inferiority margin (-20%).
b The 95.1% confidence level reflects an additional 0.001 alpha to account for an interim efficacy 
analysis.
Table 20
Complete remission at 6-months by disease status
All patients
Rituximab
n=99
Cyclophosphamide
n=98
Difference (CI 95%)
Newly diagnosed
n=48
n=48
n=51
Relapsing
Complete remission
All patients
Newly diagnosed
Relapsing
Worst case imputation is applied for patients with missing data
63.6%
60.4%
66.7%
53.1%
64.6%
42.0%
n=50
10.6% (-3.2, 24.3)
-4.2% (-23.6, 15.3)
24.7% (5.8, 43.6)
Complete remission at 12 and 18 months
In the rituximab group, 48% of patients achieved CR at 12 months, and 39% of patients achieved CR 
at 18 months. In patients treated with cyclophosphamide (followed by azathioprine for maintenance of 
complete remission), 39% of patients achieved CR at 12 months, and 33% of patients achieved CR at 
18 months. From month 12 to month 18, 8 relapses were observed in the rituximab group compared 
with four in the cyclophosphamide group.
Laboratory evaluations
A total of 23/99 (23%) rituximab-treated patients from the induction of remission trial tested positive 
for ADA by 18 months. None of the 99 rituximab-treated patients were ADA positive at screening. 
There was no apparent trend or negative impact of the presence of ADA on safety or efficacy in the 
induction of remission trial.
Adult maintenance treatment 
A total of 117 patients (88 with GPA, 24 with MPA, and 5 with renal-limited ANCA-associated 
vasculitis) in disease remission were randomized to receive azathioprine (59 patients) or rituximab 
(58 patients) in a prospective, multi-center, controlled, open-label study. Included patients were 21 to 
75 years of age and had newly diagnosed or relapsing disease in complete remission after combined 
treatment with glucocorticoids and pulse cyclophosphamide. The majority of patients were ANCA-
positive at diagnosis or during the course of their disease; had histologically confirmed necrotizing 
small-vessel vasculitis with a clinical phenotype of GPA or MPA, or renal limited ANCA-associated 
vasculitis; or both.
47
Remission-induction therapy included IV prednisone, administered as per the investigator’s discretion, 
preceded in some patients by methylprednisolone pulses, and pulse cyclophosphamide until remission 
was attained after 4 to 6 months. At that time, and within a maximum of 1 month after the last 
cyclophosphamide pulse, patients were randomly assigned to receive either rituximab (two 500 mg 
intravenous infusions separated by two weeks (on Day 1 and Day 15) followed by 500 mg IV every 
6 months for 18 months) or azathioprine (administered orally at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day for 12 months, 
then 1.5 mg/kg/day for 6 months, and finally 1 mg/kg/day for 4 months [treatment discontinuation 
after these 22  months]). Prednisone treatment was tapered and then kept at a low dose (approximately 
5 mg per day) for at least 18 months after randomisation. Prednisone dose tapering and the decision to 
stop prednisone treatment after month 18 were left at the investigator’s discretion. 
All patients were followed until month 28 (10 or 6 months, respectively, after the last rituximab 
infusion or azathioprine dose). Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia prophylaxis was required for all 
patients with CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts less than 250 per cubic millimeter.
The primary outcome measure was the rate of major relapse at month 28. 
Results
At month 28, major relapse (defined by the reappearance of clinical and/or laboratory signs of 
vasculitis activity ([BVAS] > 0) that could lead to organ failure or damage or could be life 
threatening) occurred in 3 patients (5%) in the rituximab group and 17 patients (29%) in the 
azathioprine group (p=0.0007). Minor relapses (not life threatening and not involving major organ 
damage) occurred in seven patients in the rituximab group (12%) and eight patients in the azathioprine 
group (14%). 
The cumulative incidence rate curves showed that time to first major relapse was longer in patients 
with rituximab starting from month 2 and was maintained up to month 28 (Figure 3).
Figure 3: 
Cumulative incidence over time of first major relapse
Percent
age of 
Patients 
with 
First 
Major 
Relapse
Number of Subjects with Major Relapse
5
Azathioprine 0
Rituximab
1
0
Number of subjects at risk
Azathioprine 59
58
Rituximab
52
56
56
56
50
56
3
0
0
0
3
0
47
55
Survival Time (Months)
8
1
44
54
9
1
42
54
9
1
41
54
9
1
40
54
10
1
39
54
13
3
36
52
15
3
34
50
17
3
0
0
5
1
47
54
8
1
44
54
48
     
Note: Patients were censored at month 28 if they had no event.
Laboratory evaluations
A total of 6/34 (18%) of rituximab treated patients from the maintenance therapy clinical trial 
developed ADA. There was no apparent trend or negative impact of the presence of ADA on safety or 
efficacy in the maintenance therapy clinical trial. 
Paediatric population
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Study WA25615 (PePRS) was a multicentre, open-label, single-arm, uncontrolled study in 
25 paediatric patients (≥ 2 to < 18 years old) with severe, active GPA or MPA. The median age of 
patients in the study was: 14 years (range: 6-17 years) and the majority of patients (20/25 [80%]) were 
female. A total of 19 patients (76%) had GPA and 6 patients (24%) had MPA at baseline. Eighteen 
patients (72%) had newly diagnosed disease upon study entry (13 patients with GPA and 5 patients 
with MPA) and 7 patients had relapsing disease (6 patients with GPA and 1 patient with MPA). 
The study design consisted of an initial 6-month remission induction phase, with a minimum 18-
month follow-up, up to a maximum of 54 months (4.5 years) overall. Patients were to receive a 
minimum of 3 doses of IV methylprednisolone (30 mg/kg/day, not exceeding 1 g/day) prior to the first 
rituximab intravenous infusion. If clinically indicated, additional daily doses (up to three), of IV 
methylprednisolone could be given. The remission induction regimen consisted of four once weekly 
intravenous infusions of rituximab at a dose of 375 mg/m2 BSA, on study days 1, 8, 15 and 22 in 
combination with oral prednisolone or prednisone at 1 mg/kg/day (max 60 mg/day) tapered to 
0.2 mg/kg/day minimum (max 10 mg/day) by Month 6. After the remission induction phase, patients 
could, at the discretion of the investigator, receive subsequent rituximab infusions on or after Month 6 
to maintain PVAS remission and control disease activity (including progressive disease or flare) or to 
achieve first remission. 
All 25 patients completed all four once weekly intravenous infusions for the 6-month remission 
induction phase. A total of 24 out of 25 patients completed at least 18 months of follow-up. 
The objectives of this study were to evaluate safety, PK parameters, and efficacy of rituximab in 
paediatric GPA and MPA patients (≥ 2 to < 18 years old). The efficacy objectives of the study were 
exploratory and principally assessed using the Paediatric Vasculitis Activity Score (PVAS) (Table 21). 
Cumulative Glucocorticoid dose (IV and Oral) by Month 6:
Twenty-four out of 25 patients (96%) in Study WA25615 achieved oral glucocorticoid taper to 
0.2 mg/kg/day (or less than or equal to 10 mg/day, whichever was lower) at or by Month 6 during the 
protocol-defined oral steroid taper. 
A decrease in median overall oral glucocorticoid use was observed from Week 1 (median = 45 mg 
prednisone equivalent dose [IQR: 35 – 60]) to Month 6 (median = 7.5 mg [IQR: 4-10]), which was 
subsequently maintained at Month 12 (median = 5 mg [IQR: 2-10]) and Month 18 (median = 5 mg 
[IQR: 1-5]). 
Follow-Up Treatment 
During the Overall Study Period, patients received between 4 and 28 infusions of rituximab (up to 
4.5 yrs [53.8 months]). Patients received up to 375 mg/m2 x 4 of rituximab, approximately every 
6 months at the discretion of the investigator. In total, 17 out of 25 patients (68%) received additional 
rituximab treatment at or post Month 6 until the Common Close Out, 14 out of these 17 patients 
received additional rituximab treatment between Month 6 and Month 18.
49
Table 21
Study WA25615 (PePRS) - PVAS Remission at Month 1, 2, 4, 6, 12 and 18
Study visit
Number of Responders in PVAS Remission*
(response rate [%])
95% CIα
n=25
0
1 (4.0%)
5 (20.0%)
13 (52.0%)
18 (72.0%)
18 (72.0%)
Month 1
Month 2
Month 4
Month 6
Month 12
Month 18
* PVAS of 0 and achieved glucocorticoid taper to 0.2 mg/kg/day (or 10 mg/day, whichever is lower) at 
the assessment time-point.
α the efficacy results are exploratory and no formal statistical testing was performed for these endpoints 
rituximab, treatment (375 mg/m2 x 4 infusions) up to Month 6 was identical for all patients. Follow-up 
treatment post Month 6 was at the discretion of the investigator.
0.0%, 13.7%
0.1%, 20.4%
6.8%, 40.7%
31.3%, 72.2%
50.6%, 87.9%
50.6%, 87.9%
Laboratory evaluations 
A total of 4/25 patients (16%) developed ADA during the overall study period. Limited data shows 
there was no trend observed in the adverse reactions reported in ADA positive patients. 
There was no apparent trend or negative impact of the presence of ADA on safety or efficacy in the 
paediatric GPA and MPA clinical trials. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
rituximab in paediatric population < 2 years of age in severe, active GPA or MPA. See section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use.
Clinical experience in pemphigus vulgaris (PV)
PV Study 1 (Study ML22196)
The efficacy and safety of rituximab in combination with short-term, low-dose glucocorticoid 
(prednisone) therapy were evaluated in newly diagnosed patients with moderate to severe pemphigus 
(74 PV and 16 pemphigus foliaceus [PF]) in this randomised, open-label, controlled, multicentre 
study. Patients were between 19 and 79 years of age and had not received prior therapies for 
pemphigus. In the PV population, 5 (13%) patients in the rituximab group and 3 (8%) patients in the 
standard prednisone group had moderate disease and 33 (87%) patients in the rituximab group and 33 
(92%) patients in the standard-dose prednisone group had severe disease according to disease severity 
defined by Harman’s criteria.
Patients were stratified by baseline disease severity (moderate or severe) and randomised 1:1 to 
receive either rituximab and low-dose prednisone or standard-dose prednisone. Patients randomised to 
the rituximab group received an initial intravenous infusion of 1000 mg rituximab on Study Day 1 in 
combination with 0.5 mg/kg/day oral prednisone tapered off over 3 months if they had moderate 
disease or 1 mg/kg/day oral prednisone tapered off over 6 months if they had severe disease, and a 
second intravenous infusion of 1000 mg on Study Day 15. Maintenance infusions of rituximab 500 mg 
were administered at Months 12 and 18. Patients randomised to the standard-dose prednisone group 
received an initial 1 mg/kg/day oral prednisone tapered off over 12 months if they had moderate 
disease or 1.5 mg/kg/day oral prednisone tapered off over 18 months if they had severe disease. 
Patients in the rituximab group who relapsed could receive an additional infusion of rituximab 
1000 mg in combination with reintroduced or escalated prednisone dose. Maintenance and relapse 
infusions were administered no sooner than 16 weeks following the previous infusion. 
50
The primary objective for the study was complete remission (complete epithelialisation and absence of 
new and/or established lesions) at Month 24 without the use of prednisone therapy for two months or 
more (CRoff for 2 months). 
PV Study 1 Results
The study showed statistically significant results of rituximab and low-dose prednisone over standard-
dose prednisone in achieving CRoff  2 months at Month 24 in PV patients (see Table 22).
Table 22
Percentage of PV patients who achieved complete remission off corticosteroid 
therapy for two months or more at Month 24 (Intent-to-Treat Population - PV)
Rituximab +
Prednisone
N=38
34 (89.5%)
Prednisone
N=36
p-value a
95% CIb
<0.0001
61.7% (38.4, 76.5)
Number of responders 
(response rate [%])
ap-value is from Fisher’s exact test with mid-p correction
b 95% confidence interval is corrected Newcombe interval
10 (27.8%)
The number of rituximab plus low-dose prednisone patients off prednisone therapy or on minimal 
therapy (prednisone dose of 10 mg or less per day) compared to standard-dose prednisone patients 
over the 24-month treatment period shows a steroid-sparing effect of rituximab (Figure 4). 
Figure 4:  Number of patients who were off or on minimal corticosteroid (≤ 10 mg/day) 
therapy over time
Post-hoc retrospective laboratory evaluation
A total of 19/34 (56%) patients with PV, who were treated with rituximab, tested positive for ADA 
antibodies by 18 months. The clinical relevance of ADA formation in rituximab-treated PV patients is 
unclear.
PV Study 2 (Study WA29330)
In a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, active-comparator, multicentre study, the efficacy and 
safety of rituximab compared with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) were evaluated in patients with 
moderate-to-severe PV receiving 60-120 mg/day oral prednisone or equivalent (1.0-1.5 mg/kg/day) at 
study entry and tapered to reach a dose of 60 or 80 mg/day by Day 1. Patients had a confirmed 
51
diagnosis of PV within the previous 24 months and evidence of moderate-to-severe disease (defined as 
a total Pemphigus Disease Area Index, PDAI, activity score of  15).
One hundred and thirty-five patients were randomised to treatment with rituximab 1000 mg 
administered on Day 1, Day 15, Week 24 and Week 26 or oral MMF 2 g/day for 52 weeks in 
combination with 60 or 80 mg oral prednisone with the aim of tapering to 0 mg/day prednisone by 
Week 24.
The primary efficacy objective for this study was to evaluate at Week 52, the efficacy of rituximab 
compared with MMF in achieving sustained complete remission defined as achieving healing of 
lesions with no new active lesions (i.e., PDAI activity score of 0) while on 0 mg/day prednisone or 
equivalent, and maintaining this response for at least 16 consecutive weeks, during the 52-week 
treatment period. 
PV Study 2 Results
The study demonstrated the superiority of rituximab over MMF in combination with a tapering course 
of oral corticosteroids in achieving CRoff corticosteroid  16 weeks at Week 52 in PV patients 
(Table 23).The majority of patients in the mITT population were newly diagnosed (74%) and 26% of 
patients had established disease (duration of illness  6 months and received prior treatment for PV). 
Table 23
Percentage of PV patients who achieved sustained complete remission off 
corticosteroid therapy for 16 weeks or more at Week 52 (Modified Intent-to-Treat 
Population)
Number of responders 
(response rate [%])
Rituximab
(N=62)
25 (40.3%)
MMF
(N=63)
6 (9.5%)
Difference (95% CI)
p-value
30.80% (14.70%, 45.15%)
<0.0001
Newly diagnosed patients 19 (39.6%)
6 (42.9%)
Patients with established 
disease
4 (9.1%)
2 (10.5%)
MMF = Mycophenolate mofetil. CI = Confidence Interval. 
Newly diagnosed patients = duration of illness < 6 months or no prior treatment for PV. 
Patients with established disease = duration of illness  6 months and received prior treatment for PV. 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test is used for p-value. 
The analysis of all secondary parameters (including cumulative oral corticosteroid dose, the total 
number of disease flares, and change in health-related quality of life, as measured by the Dermatology 
Life Quality Index) verified the statistically significant results of rituximab compared to MMF. 
Testing of secondary endpoints were controlled for multiplicity. 
Glucocorticoid exposure
The cumulative oral corticosteroid dose was significantly lower in patients treated with rituximab. The 
median (min, max) cumulative prednisone dose at Week 52 was 2775 mg (450, 22180) in the 
rituximab group compared to 4005 mg (900, 19920) in the MMF group (p=0.0005). 
Disease flare
The total number of disease flares was significantly lower in patients treated with rituximab compared 
to MMF (6 vs. 44, p< 0.0001) and there were fewer patients who had at least one disease flare (8.1% 
vs. 41.3%).
52
Laboratory evaluations
By Week 52, a total of 20/63 (31.7%) (19 treatment-induced and 1 treatment-enhanced) rituximab -
treated PV patients tested positive for ADA. There was no apparent negative impact of the presence of 
ADA on safety or efficacy in PV Study 2.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Adult Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL)
Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 298 NHL patients who received single or multiple 
infusions of rituximab as a single agent or in combination with CHOP therapy (applied rituximab 
doses ranged from 100 to 500 mg/m2), the typical population estimates of nonspecific clearance (CL1), 
specific clearance (CL2) likely contributed by B cells or tumour burden, and central compartment 
volume of distribution (V1) were 0.14 L/day, 0.59 L/day, and 2.7 L, respectively. The estimated 
median terminal elimination half-life of rituximab was 22 days (range, 6.1 to 52 days). Baseline 
CD19-positive cell counts and size of measurable tumour lesions contributed to some of the variability 
in CL2 of rituximab in data from 161 patients given 375 mg/m2 as an intravenous infusion for 
4 weekly doses. Patients with higher CD19-positive cell counts or tumour lesions had a higher CL2. 
However, a large component of inter-individual variability remained for CL2 after correction for 
CD19-positive cell counts and tumour lesion size. V1 varied by body surface area (BSA) and CHOP 
therapy. This variability in V1 (27.1% and 19.0%) contributed by the range in BSA (1.53 to 2.32 m2) 
and concurrent CHOP therapy, respectively, were relatively small. Age, gender and WHO 
performance status had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of rituximab. This analysis suggests that 
dose adjustment of rituximab with any of the tested covariates is not expected to result in a meaningful 
reduction in its pharmacokinetic variability.
Rituximab, administered as an intravenous infusion at a dose of 375 mg/m2 at weekly intervals for 
4 doses to 203 patients with NHL naive to rituximab, yielded a mean Cmax following the fourth 
infusion of 486 µg/mL (range, 77.5 to 996.6 µg/mL). Rituximab was detectable in the serum of 
patients 3 to 6 months after completion of last treatment.
Upon administration of rituximab at a dose of 375 mg/m2 as an intravenous infusion at weekly 
intervals for 8 doses to 37 patients with NHL, the mean Cmax increased with each successive infusion, 
spanning from a mean of 243 µg/mL (range, 16 – 582 µg/mL) after the first infusion to 550 µg/mL 
(range, 171-1,177 µg/mL) after the eighth infusion.
The pharmacokinetic profile of rituximab when administered as 6 infusions of 375 mg/m2 in 
combination with 6 cycles of CHOP chemotherapy was similar to that seen with rituximab alone.
Paediatric DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL
In the clinical trial studying paediatric DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL, the PK was studied in a subset of 
35 patients aged 3 years and older. The PK was comparable between the two age groups (≥ 3 to 
< 12 years vs. ≥ 12 to < 18 years). After two rituximab intravenous infusions of 375 mg/m2 in each of 
the two induction cycles (Cycle 1 and 2) followed by one rituximab intravenous infusion of 
375 mg/m2 in each of the consolidation cycles (Cycle 3 and 4) the maximum concentration was 
highest after the fourth infusion (Cycle 2) with a geometric mean of 347 μg/mL followed by lower 
geometric mean maximum concentrations thereafter (Cycle 4: 247 μg/mL). With this dose regimen, 
trough levels were sustained (geometric means: 41.8 μg/mL (pre-dose Cycle 2; after 1 cycle), 
67.7 μg/mL (pre-dose Cycle 3, after 2 cycles) and 58.5 μg/mL (pre-dose Cycle 4, after 3 cycles)). The 
median elimination half-life in paediatric patients aged 3 years and older was 26 days. 
The PK characteristics of rituximab in paediatric patients with DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL were similar to 
what has been observed in adult NHL patients. 
No PK data are available in the ≥ 6 months to < 3 years age group, however, population PK prediction 
supports comparable systemic exposure (AUC, Ctrough) in this age group compared to ≥ 3 years 
53
(Table 24). Smaller baseline tumour size is related to higher exposure due to lower time dependent 
clearance, however, systemic exposures impacted by different tumour sizes remain in the range of 
exposure that was efficacious and had an acceptable safety profile.
Table 24
Predicted PK Parameters following the Rituximab Dosing Regimen in Paediatric 
DLBCL/BL/BAL/BLL
Age group
Ctrough (µg/mL)
AUC1-4 cycles
(µg*day/mL)
Results are presented as median (min – max); Ctrough is pre-dose Cycle 4.
≥ 6 mo to < 3 years
47.5 (0.01-179)
13501 (278-31070)
≥ 3 to < 12 years
51.4 (0.00-182)
11609 (135-31157)
≥ 12 to < 18 years
44.1 (0.00-149)
11467 (110-27066)
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Rituximab was administered as an intravenous infusion at a first-cycle dose of 375 mg/m2 increased to 
500 mg/m2 each cycle for 5 doses in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in CLL 
patients. The mean Cmax (N=15) was 408 µg/mL (range, 97 – 764 µg/mL) after the fifth 500 mg/m2 
infusion and the mean terminal half-life was 32 days (range, 14 – 62 days).
Rheumatoid arthritis
Following two intravenous infusions of rituximab at a dose of 1,000 mg, two weeks apart, the mean 
terminal half-life was 20.8 days (range, 8.58 to 35.9 days), mean systemic clearance was 0.23 L/day 
(range, 0.091 to 0.67 L/day), and mean steady-state distribution volume was 4.6 L (range, 1.7 to 
7.51 L). Population pharmacokinetic analysis of the same data gave similar mean values for systemic 
clearance and half-life, 0.26 L/day and 20.4 days, respectively. Population pharmacokinetic analysis 
revealed that BSA and gender were the most significant covariates to explain inter-individual 
variability in pharmacokinetic parameters. After adjusting for BSA, male subjects had a larger volume 
of distribution and a faster clearance than female subjects. The gender-related pharmacokinetic 
differences are not considered to be clinically relevant and dose adjustment is not required. No 
pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with hepatic or renal impairment.
The pharmacokinetics of rituximab were assessed following two intravenous doses of 500 mg and 
1,000 mg on days 1 and 15 in four studies. In all these studies, rituximab pharmacokinetics were dose 
proportional over the limited dose range studied. Mean Cmax for serum rituximab following first 
infusion ranged from 157 to 171 μg/mL for 2 x 500 mg dose and ranged from 298 to 341 μg/mL for 
2 x 1,000 mg dose. Following second infusion, mean Cmax ranged from 183 to 198 μg/mL for the 
2 x 500 mg dose and ranged from 355 to 404 μg/mL for the 2 x 1,000 mg dose. Mean terminal 
elimination half-life ranged from 15 to 16 days for the 2 x 500 mg dose group and 17 to 21 days for 
the 2 x 1,000 mg dose group. Mean Cmax was 16 to 19% higher following second infusion compared to 
the first infusion for both doses.
The pharmacokinetics of rituximab were assessed following two intravenous doses of 500 mg and 
1,000 mg upon re-treatment in the second course. Mean Cmax for serum rituximab following first 
infusion was 170 to 175 μg/mL for 2 x 500 mg dose and 317 to 370 μg/mL for 2 x 1,000 mg dose. 
Cmax following second infusion, was 207 μg/mL for the 2 x 500 mg dose and ranged from 
377 to 386 μg/mL for the 2 x 1,000 mg dose. Mean terminal elimination half-life after the second 
infusion, following the second course, was 19 days for 2 x 500 mg dose and ranged from 21 to 22 days 
for the 2 x 1,000 mg dose. PK parameters for rituximab were comparable over the two treatment 
courses.
The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters in the anti-TNF inadequate responder population, following the 
same dose regimen (2 x 1,000 mg, intravenous, 2 weeks apart), were similar with a mean maximum 
serum concentration of 369 μg/mL and a mean terminal half-life of 19.2 days.
54
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Adult population
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis of data in 97 patients with GPA and MPA who 
received 375 mg/m2 rituximab once weekly for four doses, the estimated median terminal elimination 
half-life was 23 days (range, 9 – 49 days). 
Rituximab mean clearance and volume of distribution were 0.313 L/day (range, 0.116 – 0.726 L/day) 
and 4.50 L (range 2.25 – 7.39 L) respectively. Maximum concentration during the first 180 days 
(Cmax), minimum concentration at Day 180 (C180) and Cumulative area under the curve over 180 days 
(AUC180) were (median [range]) 372.6 (252.3-533.5) μg/mL, 2.1 (0-29.3) μg/mL and 10302 (3653-
21874) μg/mL*days, respectively. The PK parameters of rituximab in adult GPA and MPA patients 
appear similar to what has been observed in rheumatoid arthritis patients.
Paediatric Population
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis of 25 children (6-17 years old) with GPA and MPA 
who received 375 mg/m2 rituximab once weekly for four doses, the estimated median terminal 
elimination half-life was 22 days (range, 11 to 42 days). Rituximab mean clearance and volume of 
distribution were 0.221 L/day (range, 0. 0996 to 0.381 L/day) and 2.27 L (range 1.43 to 3.17 L) 
respectively. Maximum concentration during the first 180 days (Cmax), minimum concentration at 
Day 180 (C180) and Cumulative area under the curve over 180 days (AUC180) were (median [range]) 
382.8 (270.6-513.6) μg/mL, 0.9 (0-17.7) μg/mL and 9787 (4838-20446) μg/mL*day, respectively. The 
PK parameters of rituximab in paediatric patients with GPA or MPA were similar to those in adults 
with GPA or MPA, once taking into account the BSA effect on clearance and volume of distribution 
parameters.
Pemphigus vulgaris
The PK parameters in adult PV patients receiving rituximab 1000 mg at Days 1, 15, 168 and 182 are 
summarised in Table 25.
Table 25
Population PK in adult PV patients from PV Study 2 
Parameter
Infusion cycle
1st cycle of 1000 mg
Day 1 and Day 15
N=67
2nd cycle of 1000 mg 
Day 168 and Day 182
N=67
Terminal half-life (days)
Median
(Range)
Clearance (L/day)
Mean
(Range)
Central volume of distribution (L)
Mean
(Range)
21.0
(9.3-36.2)
391
(159-1510)
3.52
(2.48-5.22)
26.5
(16.4-42.8)
247
(128-454)
3.52
(2.48-5.22)
Following the first two rituximab administrations (at day 1 and 15, corresponding to cycle 1), the PK 
parameters of rituximab in patients with PV were similar to those in patients with GPA/MPA and 
patients with RA. Following the last two administrations (at day 168 and 182, corresponding to cycle 
2), rituximab clearance decreased while the central volume of distribution remained unchanged.
55
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Rituximab has shown to be highly specific to the CD20 antigen on B cells. Toxicity studies in 
cynomolgus monkeys have shown no other effect than the expected pharmacological depletion of B 
cells in peripheral blood and in lymphoid tissue.
Developmental toxicity studies have been performed in cynomolgus monkeys at doses up to 
100 mg/kg (treatment on gestation days 20-50) and have revealed no evidence of toxicity to the foetus 
due to rituximab. However, dose-dependent pharmacologic depletion of B cells in the lymphoid 
organs of the foetuses was observed, which persisted postnatally and was accompanied by a decrease 
in IgG level in the newborn animals affected. B cell counts returned to normal in these animals within 
6 months of birth and did not compromise the reaction to immunisation.
Standard tests to investigate mutagenicity have not been carried out, since such tests are not relevant 
for this molecule. No long-term animal studies have been performed to establish the carcinogenic 
potential of rituximab. 
Specific studies to determine the effects of rituximab on fertility have not been performed. In general 
toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys no deleterious effects on reproductive organs in males or 
females were observed.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Sodium citrate (E331)
Polysorbate 80 (E433)
Sodium chloride
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) (E524)
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) (E507)
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
No incompatibilities between Riximyo and polyvinyl chloride or polyethylene bags or infusion sets 
have been observed.
6.3
Shelf life
Unopened vial
3 years at 2 °C – 8 °C.
Riximyo may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 30 °C for a single period of up to 7 days, 
but not exceeding the original expiry date. The new expiry date must be written on the carton. Upon 
removal from refrigerated storage, Riximyo must not be returned to refrigerated storage.
56
After aseptic dilution in sodium chloride solution:
Diluted medicinal product
•
Chemical and physical stability of Riximyo diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection has been demonstrated for: 
30 days at 2 °C – 8 °C and subsequently 24 hours at room temperature (≤ 25 °C) 
or
7 days at ≤ 30 °C, while protected from light.
•
After aseptic dilution in glucose solution:
•
Chemical and physical stability of Riximyo diluted in 5% glucose solution has been demonstrated for 
24 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C and subsequently 12 hours at room temperature (≤ 25 °C).
From a microbiological point of view, the prepared infusion solution should be used immediately. If 
not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C).
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
For storage conditions of the unopened vial outside the refrigerator, see section 6.3.
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
10 mL vial: Clear Type I glass vials with butyl rubber stopper containing 100 mg of rituximab in 
10 mL. Packs of 2 or 3 vials.
50 mL vial: Clear Type I glass vials with butyl rubber stopper containing 500 mg of rituximab in 
50 mL. Packs of 1 or 2 vials.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Riximyo is provided in sterile, preservative-free, non-pyrogenic, single use vials. Use a sterile needle 
and syringe to prepare Riximyo.
Aseptically withdraw the necessary amount of Riximyo, and dilute to a calculated concentration of 
1 to 4 mg/mL rituximab into an infusion bag containing sterile, pyrogen-free sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection or 5% D-Glucose in water. For mixing the solution, gently 
invert the bag in order to avoid foaming. Care must be taken to ensure the sterility of prepared 
solutions. Since the medicinal product does not contain any anti-microbial preservative or 
bacteriostatic agents, aseptic technique must be observed. Parenteral medicinal products should be 
inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to administration.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
57
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
Riximyo 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
EU/1/17/1184/001
EU/1/17/1184/002
Riximyo 500 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
EU/1/17/1184/003
EU/1/17/1184/004
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 15 June 2017
Date of latest renewal: 16 February 2022
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
58
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
59
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing GmbH 
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen
AUSTRIA
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG
Birkendorfer Strasse 65
88397 Biberach an der Riss
GERMANY
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen
AUSTRIA
Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d. Ljubljana
Verovškova 57
1526 Ljubljana
SLOVENIA
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
•
Periodic safety update reports (PSUR) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
•
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
60
•
•
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
•
Additional risk minimisation measures
For the indications non-Hodgkin´s lymphoma (NHL) and Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL):
All physicians who are expected to prescribe Riximyo for NHL/CLL are provided with the following 
to reduce the risk of administration route errors:
-
-
Product information 
HCP Alert card addressing the correct use of Riximyo
The HCP Alert card addressing the correct use of Riximyo contains the following key elements:
-
The advice that Riximyo is for intravenous use only and recommendations how to ensure this 
route of administration
For non-oncology indications:
All physicians who are expected to prescribe Riximyo for non-oncology indications are provided with 
the following:
-
-
-
A Patient Alert Card will be included in the carton.
Product information 
HCP educational leaflet
Patient educational leaflet
The HCP educational leaflet about Riximyo for non-oncology indications contains the following key 
elements:
-
The need for close supervision during administration in an environment where full resuscitation 
facilities are immediately available
The need to check, prior to Riximyo treatment, for infections, for immunosuppression, for 
prior/current medication affecting the immune system, and recent history of, or planned, 
vaccination, and a history of infusion-related reaction
The need to monitor patients for infections, especially PML, during and after Riximyo treatment
Detailed information on the risk of PML, the need for timely diagnosis of PML and appropriate 
measures to diagnose PML
The need to advise patients on the risk of infections and PML, including the symptoms to be 
aware of and the need to contact their doctor immediately if they experience any.
The need to provide patients with the Patient Alert Card with each infusion
-
-
-
-
-
The Patient educational leaflet about Riximyo contains the following key elements:
-
-
Detailed information on the risk of infections and PML
Information on the signs and symptoms of infections, especially PML, and the need to contact 
their doctor immediately if they experience any
The importance of sharing this information with their partner or caregiver
Information on the Patient Alert Card
-
-
The Patient Alert Card for Riximyo contains the following key elements:
-
The need to carry the card at all times and to show the card to all treating health care 
professionals
Warning on the risk of infections and PML, including the symptoms
The need for patients to contact their health care professional if symptoms occur
-
-
The HCP educational leaflets and the Patient educational leaflet will be agreed with the National 
Competent Authorities prior to distribution. As the Patient Alert Card is part of the product 
information in the outer packaging, the content will be centrally approved for all EU/EEA languages 
without need of further approval by National Authorities. 
61
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
62
A. LABELLING
63
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Riximyo 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
rituximab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
1 vial contains 10 mg/mL rituximab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Sodium citrate, polysorbate 80, sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid, water for 
injections. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Concentrate for solution for infusion
100 mg / 10 mL
2 vials of 10 mL
3 vials of 10 mL
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
For intravenous use after dilution.
Read the package leaflet before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
64
Can be stored at temperatures up to 30 °C for a single period up to 7 days, but not exceeding the 
original expiry date.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1184/001
EU/1/17/1184/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
65
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Riximyo 100 mg sterile concentrate
rituximab
For intravenous use after dilution
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
100 mg/10 mL
6.
OTHER
Information to appear on Peel-off sticker
Riximyo 100 mg
rituximab
EXP
Lot
66
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Riximyo 500 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
rituximab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
1 vial contains 10 mg/mL rituximab.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Sodium citrate, polysorbate 80, sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid, water for 
injections. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Concentrate for solution for infusion
500 mg / 50 mL
1 vial of 50 mL
2 vials of 50 mL
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
For intravenous use after dilution.
Read the package leaflet before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
67
Can be stored at temperatures up to 30°C for a single period up to 7 days, but not exceeding the 
original expiry date.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1184/003
EU/1/17/1184/004
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN 
NN 
68
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Riximyo 500 mg sterile concentrate
rituximab
For intravenous use after dilution
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
500 mg / 50 mL
6.
OTHER
Information to appear on Peel-off sticker
Riximyo 500 mg
rituximab
EXP
Lot
69
PATIENT ALERT CARD TEXT FOR NON-ONCOLOGY INDICATIONS
What else do I need to know?
Rarely Riximyo can cause a serious brain 
infection, called “Progressive Multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy” or PML. This can 
be fatal.
• Signs of PML include:
- Confusion, memory loss or 
-
problems thinking 
Loss of balance or a change in 
the way you walk or talk 
- Decreased strength or 
weakness on one side of your 
body 
- Blurred vision or loss of 
vision. 
If you get any of these, tell a doctor or 
nurse straight away. You should also tell 
them about your Riximyo treatment. 
Where can I get more information?
See the Riximyo package leaflet for 
more information.
Treatment start date and contact details
Date of most recent infusion: __________
Date of first infusion: ________________
Patient’s Name:_____________________
Doctor’s Name:_____________________
Doctor’s contact details:______________
Make sure you have a list of all your 
medicines when you see a health care 
professional.
Please talk to your doctor or nurse if you 
have any questions about the 
information in this card.
Riximyo Alert Card for patients with 
non-oncology diseases
Why have I been given this card?
This medicine may make you more likely to 
get infections. This card tells you: 
• What you need to know before having 
Riximyo
• What the signs of an infection are
• What to do if you think you might be 
getting an infection.
It also includes your name and doctor’s name 
and phone number on the back.
What should I do with this card?
• Keep this card with you all the time – 
such as in your wallet or purse.
• Show this card to any doctor, nurse or 
dentist you see – not just the specialist 
who prescribes your Riximyo.
Keep this card with you for 2 years after your 
last dose of Riximyo. This is because side 
effects can develop several months after you 
have had treatment.
When should I not have Riximyo?
Do not have Riximyo if you have an active 
infection or a serious problem with your 
immune system.
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking or 
have previously taken medicines which may 
affect your immune system this includes 
chemo-therapy.
Fever or persistent cough
What are the signs of getting an infection?
Look out for the following possible signs of 
infection: 
•
• Weight loss 
Pain without injuring yourself 
•
Feeling generally unwell or listless.
•
If you get any of these, tell a doctor or 
nurse straight away.
You should also tell them about your 
Riximyo treatment.
70
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
71
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Riximyo 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
Riximyo 500 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
rituximab
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
•
•
•
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What Riximyo is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you are given Riximyo
3.
4.
5.
6.
How Riximyo is given
Possible side effects
How to store Riximyo
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Riximyo is and what it is used for
What Riximyo is
Riximyo contains the active substance “rituximab”. This is a type of protein called a “monoclonal 
antibody”. It sticks to the surface of a type of white blood cell called “B-Lymphocyte”. When 
rituximab sticks to the surface of this cell, the cell dies.
What Riximyo is used for
Riximyo may be used for the treatment of several different conditions in adults and children. Your 
doctor may prescribe Riximyo for the treatment of:
Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
a)
This is a disease of the lymph tissue (part of the immune system) that affects a type of white blood cell 
called B-Lymphocytes.
In adults Riximyo can be given alone or with other medicines called “chemotherapy”.
In adult patients where the treatment is working, Riximyo may be used as a maintenance treatment for 
2 years after completing the initial treatment.
In children and adolescents, rituximab is given in combination with “chemotherapy”.
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
b)
CLL is the most common form of adult leukaemia. CLL affects a particular lymphocyte, the B cell, 
which originates from the bone marrow and develops in the lymph nodes. Patients with CLL have too 
many abnormal lymphocytes, which accumulate mainly in the bone marrow and blood. The 
proliferation of these abnormal B-lymphocytes is the cause of symptoms you may have. Riximyo in 
combination with chemotherapy destroys these cells which are gradually removed from the body by 
biological processes.
Rheumatoid arthritis
c)
Riximyo is used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease of the 
joints. B lymphocytes are involved in the cause of some of the symptoms you have. Riximyo is used to 
treat rheumatoid arthritis in people who have already tried some other medicines which have either 
72
stopped working, have not worked well enough or have caused side effects. Riximyo is usually taken 
together with another medicine called methotrexate.
Riximyo slows down the damage to your joints caused by rheumatoid arthritis and improves your 
ability to do normal daily activities.
The best responses to Riximyo are seen in those who have a positive blood test to rheumatoid factor 
(RF) and/or anti- Cyclic Citrullinated Peptide (anti-CCP). Both tests are commonly positive in 
rheumatoid arthritis and aid in confirming the diagnosis.
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) or microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
d)
Riximyo is used for the treatment of adults and children 2 years of age and older with GPA (formerly 
called Wegener’s granulomatosis) or MPA, taken in combination with corticosteroids. 
GPA and MPA are two forms of inflammation of the blood vessels which mainly affects the lungs and 
kidneys, but may affect other organs as well. B lymphocytes are involved in the cause of these 
conditions.
Pemphigus vulgaris (PV)
e)
Riximyo is used for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe pemphigus vulgaris. 
PV is an autoimmune condition that causes painful blisters on the skin and lining of the mouth, nose, 
throat and genitals.
2. What you need to know before you are given Riximyo
Do not take Riximyo if:
•
you are allergic to rituximab, other proteins which are like rituximab, or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6).
you have a severe active infection at the moment.
you have a weak immune system.
you have severe heart failure or severe uncontrolled heart disease and have rheumatoid arthritis, 
granulomatosis with polyangiitis, microscopic polyangiitis or pemphigus vulgaris.
•
•
•
Do not have Riximyo if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse before you are given Riximyo. 
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before you are given Riximyo if:
•
•
you have ever had or might now have a hepatitis infection. This is because in a few cases, 
Riximyo could cause hepatitis B to become active again, which can be fatal in very rare cases. 
Patients who have ever had hepatitis B infection will be carefully checked by their doctor for 
signs of this infection.
you have ever had heart problems (such as angina, palpitations or heart failure) or breathing 
problems.
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
you are given Riximyo. Your doctor may need to take special care of you during your treatment with 
Riximyo.
Also talk to your doctor if you think you may need any vaccinations in the near future, including 
vaccinations needed to travel to other countries. Some vaccines should not be given at the same time 
as Riximyo or in the months after you receive Riximyo. Your doctor will check if you should have any 
vaccines before you receive Riximyo.
73
If you have rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), microscopic 
polyangiitis (MPA) or pemphigus vulgaris (PV) also tell your doctor
•
if you think you may have an infection, even a mild one like a cold. The cells that are affected 
by Riximyo help to fight infection and you should wait until the infection has passed before you 
are given Riximyo. Also please tell your doctor if you had a lot of infections in the past or suffer 
from severe infections.
Children and adolescents
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma 
Rituximab can be used for the treatment of children and adolescents, 6 months of age and older, with 
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, specifically CD20 positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), 
Burkitt lymphoma (BL)/Burkitt leukaemia (mature B-cell acute leukaemia) (BAL) or Burkitt-like 
lymphoma (BLL). 
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) or microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Rituximab can be used for treatment of children and adolescents, 2 years of age and older, with GPA 
(formerly called Wegener’s granulomatosis) or MPA. There is not much information about the use of 
rituximab in children and adolescents with other diseases.
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before you are given this medicine if you, or your child, are 
under 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Riximyo
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription and herbal medicines. This is 
because Riximyo can affect the way some other medicines work. Also some other medicines can 
affect the way Riximyo works.
In particular, tell your doctor:
•
if you are taking medicines for high blood pressure. You may be asked not to take these other 
medicines 12 hours before you are given Riximyo. This is because some people have a fall in 
their blood pressure while they are being given Riximyo.
if you have ever taken medicines which affect your immune system – such as chemotherapy or 
immune-suppressive medicines.
•
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
you are given Riximyo.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
You must tell your doctor or nurse if you are pregnant, think that you might be pregnant or are 
planning to become pregnant. This is because Riximyo can cross the placenta and may affect your 
baby.
If you can get pregnant, you and your partner must use an effective method of contraception while 
using Riximyo. You must also do this for 12 months after your last treatment with Riximyo. Riximyo 
passes into breast milk in very small amounts. As the long-term effects on breastfed infants are not 
known, for precautionary reasons, breast feeding is not recommended during treatment with Riximyo 
and for 6 months after the treatment.
Driving and using machines
It is not known whether rituximab has an effect on you being able to drive or use any tools or 
machines.
Riximyo contains sodium
This medicine contains 52.6 mg sodium (main component of the cooking/table salt) in each 10 mL 
vial and 263.2 mg in each 50 mL vial. 
This is equivalent to 2.6% (for 10 ml vial) and 13.2% (for 50 ml vial) of the recommended maximum 
daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult.
74
3.
How Riximyo is given
How it is given
Riximyo will be given to you by a doctor or nurse who is experienced in the use of this treatment. 
They will watch you closely while you are being given this medicine. This is in case you get any side 
effects.
You will always be given Riximyo as a drip (intra-venous infusion).
Medicines given before each Riximyo administration
Before you are given Riximyo you will be given other medicines (premedication) to prevent or reduce 
possible side effects.
How much and how often you will receive your treatment
a)
If you are being treated for non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma
•
If you are having Riximyo alone 
Riximyo will be given to you once a week for 4 weeks. Repeated treatment courses with 
Riximyo are possible. 
If you are having Riximyo with chemotherapy
Riximyo will be given to you on the same day as your chemotherapy. This is usually 
given every 3 weeks up to 8 times. 
If you respond well to treatment
you may be given Riximyo as a maintenance treatment every 2 or 3 months for two years. 
Your doctor may change this, depending on how you respond to the medicine.
If you are less than 18 years of age, 
you will be given Riximyo with chemotherapy. You will receive Riximyo up to 6 times 
over a 3.5 – 5.5 month period.
•
•
•
If you are being treated for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
b)
When you are treated with Riximyo in combination with chemotherapy, you will receive Riximyo 
infusions on day 0 cycle 1 then day 1 of each cycle for 6 cycles in total. Each cycle has a duration of 
28 days. The chemotherapy should be given after the Riximyo infusion. Your doctor will decide if you 
should receive concomitant supportive therapy.
If you are being treated for rheumatoid arthritis
c)
Each course of treatment is made up of two separate infusions which are given 2 weeks apart. 
Repeated courses of treatment with Riximyo are possible. Depending on the signs and symptoms of 
your disease, your doctor will decide when you should receive more Riximyo. This may be months 
from now.
d)
If you are being treated for granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) or microscopic 
polyangiitis (MPA)
Treatment with Riximyo uses four separate infusions given at weekly intervals. Corticosteroids will 
usually be given by injection before the start of Riximyo treatment. Corticosteroids given by mouth 
may be started at any time by your doctor to treat your condition.
If you are 18 years of age or older and respond well to treatment, you may be given Riximyo as a 
maintenance treatment. This will be administered as 2 separate infusions which are given 2 weeks 
apart, followed by 1 infusion every 6 months for at least 2 years. Your doctor may decide to treat you 
longer with Riximyo (up to 5 years), depending on how you respond to the medicine.
If you are being treated for pemphigus vulgaris (PV)
e)
Each course of treatment is made up of two separate infusions which are given 2 weeks apart. If you 
respond well to treatment, you may be given Riximyo as a maintenance treatment. This will be 
administered 1 year and 18 months after the initial treatment and then every 6 months as needed or 
your doctor may change this, depending on how you respond to the medicine.
75
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Most side effects are mild to moderate but some may be serious and require treatment. Rarely, some of 
these reactions have been fatal.
Infusion reactions
During or within the first 24 hours of the infusion you may develop fever, chills and shivering. Less 
frequently, some patients may experience pain at the infusion site, blisters, itching, sickness (nausea), 
tiredness, headache, breathing difficulties, blood pressure raised, wheezing, throat discomfort, tongue 
or throat swelling, itchy or runny nose, vomiting, flushing or palpitations, heart attack or low number 
of platelets. If you have heart disease or angina, these reactions might get worse. Tell the person 
giving you the infusion immediately if you or your child develops any of these symptoms, as the 
infusion may need to be slowed down or stopped. You may require additional treatment such as an 
antihistamine or paracetamol. When these symptoms go away, or improve, the infusion can be 
continued. These reactions are less likely to happen after the second infusion. Your doctor may decide 
to stop your Riximyo treatment if these reactions are serious.
Infections
Tell your doctor immediately if you or your child gets signs of an infection including:
•
•
fever, cough, sore throat, burning pain when passing urine or feeling weak or generally unwell
memory loss, trouble thinking, difficulty walking or sight loss –these may be due to a very rare, 
serious brain infection, which has been fatal (Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy or 
PML).
fever, headache and stiff neck, incoordination (ataxia), personality change, hallucinations, 
altered consciousness, seizures or coma – these may be due to a serious brain infection 
(enteroviral meningoencephalitis), which can be fatal.
•
You might get infections more easily during your treatment with Riximyo. 
These are often colds, but there have been cases of pneumonia, urinary infections and serious viral 
infections. These are listed below under “Other side effects”. 
If you are being treated for rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, microscopic 
polyangiitis or pemphigus vulgaris, you will also find this information in the Patient Alert Card you 
have been given by your doctor. It is important that you keep this Alert Card and show it to your 
partner or caregiver.
Skin reactions
Very rarely, severe blistering skin conditions that can be life-threatening may occur. Redness, often 
associated with blisters, may appear on the skin or on mucous membranes, such as inside the mouth, 
the genital areas or the eyelids, and fever may be present. Tell your doctor immediately if you 
experience any of these symptoms.
Other side effects include:
a)
If you or your child are being treated for non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma (NHL) or chronic 
lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):
•
•
•
•
bacterial or viral infections, bronchitis
low number of white blood cells, with or without fever or blood cells called “platelets”
feeling sick (nausea)
bald spots on the scalp, chills, headache
76
•
lower immunity – because of lower levels of anti-bodies called “immunoglobulins” (IgG) in the 
blood which help protect against infection
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
•
infections of the blood (sepsis), pneumonia, shingles, cold, bronchial tube infections, fungal 
infections, infections of unknown origin, sinus inflammation, hepatitis B
low number of red blood cells (anaemia), low number of all blood cells
allergic reactions (hypersensitivity)
high blood sugar level, weight loss, swelling in the face and body, high levels of the enzyme 
“LDH” in the blood, low calcium levels in the blood
unusual feelings of the skin – such as numbness, tingling, pricking, burning, a creeping skin 
feeling, reduced sense of touch
feeling restless, problems falling asleep
becoming very red in the face and other areas of the skin as a consequence of dilation of the 
blood vessels
feeling dizzy or anxious
producing more tears, tear duct problems, inflamed eye (conjunctivitis)
ringing sound in the ears, ear pain
heart problems – such as heart attack, uneven or fast heart rate
high or low blood pressure (low blood pressure especially when standing upright)
tightening of the muscles in the airways which causes wheezing (bronchospasm), inflammation, 
irritation in the lungs, throat or sinuses, being short of breath, runny nose
being sick (vomiting), diarrhoea, pain in the stomach, irritation or ulcers in the throat and 
mouth, problems swallowing, constipation, indigestion
eating disorders, not eating enough, leading to weight loss
hives, increased sweating, night sweats
muscle problems – such as tight muscles, joint or muscle pain, back and neck pain
tumour pain
general discomfort or feeling uneasy or tired, shaking, signs of flu
multiple-organ failure.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):
•
blood clotting problems, decrease of red blood cell production and increase of red blood cell 
destruction (aplastic haemolytic anaemia), swollen or enlarged lymph nodes
low mood and loss of interest or enjoyment in doing things, feeling nervous
taste problems – such as changes in the way things taste
heart problems – such as reduced heart rate or chest pain (angina)
asthma, too little oxygen reaching the body organs
swelling of the stomach.
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people):
•
short term increase in the amount of some types of anti-bodies in the blood (called 
immunoglobulins – IgM), chemical disturbances in the blood caused by break-down of dying 
cancer cells
nerve damage in arms and legs, paralysed face
heart failure
inflammation of blood vessels including those leading to skin symptoms
respiratory failure
damage to the intestinal wall (perforation)
severe skin problems causing blisters that can be life-threatening. Redness, often associated 
with blisters, may appear on the skin or on mucous membranes, such as inside the mouth, the 
genital areas or the eyelids, and fever may be present.
kidney failure
severe vision loss
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
77
Not known (it is not known how often these side effects happen): 
•
•
a reduction in white blood cells which does not happen straight away
reduced platelets number just after the infusion – this can be reversed, but can be fatal in rare 
cases
hearing loss, loss of other senses
brain and meningeal infection/inflammation (enteroviral meningoencephalitis)
•
•
Children and adolescents with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL): 
In general, side effects in children and adolescents with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma were similar to 
those in adults with NHL or CLL. The most common side effects seen were fever associated with low 
levels of a type of white blood cell (neutrophil), inflammation or sores in the lining of the mouth, and 
allergic reactions (hypersensitivity).
b)
If you are being treated for rheumatoid arthritis
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):
•
•
•
Infections such as pneumonia (bacterial)
Pain on passing water (urinary tract infection)
Allergic reactions that are most likely to occur during an infusion, but can occur up-to 24-hours 
after infusion
Changes in blood pressure, nausea, rash, fever, feeling itchy, runny or blocked nose and 
sneezing, shaking, rapid heartbeat, and tiredness
Headache
Changes in laboratory tests carried out by your doctor. These include a decrease in the amount 
of some specific proteins in the blood (immunoglobulins) which help protect against infection.
•
•
•
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
•
•
Infections such as bronchial tube inflammation (bronchitis)
A feeling of fullness or a throbbing pain behind the nose, cheeks and eyes (sinusitis), pain in the 
abdomen, vomiting and diarrhoea, breathing problems
Fungal foot infection (athlete’s foot)
High cholesterol levels in the blood
Abnormal sensations of the skin, such as numbness, tingling, pricking or burning, sciatica, 
migraine, dizziness
Loss of hair
Anxiety, depression
Indigestion, diarrhoea, acid reflux, irritation and /or ulceration of the throat and the mouth
Pain in the tummy, back, muscles and/or joints
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):
•
•
•
•
Excess fluid retention in the face and body
Inflammation, irritation and/or tightness of the lungs, and throat, coughing
Skin reactions including hives, itching and rash
Allergic reactions including wheezing or shortness of breath, swelling of the face and tongue, 
collapse
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people):
•
A complex of symptoms occurring within a few weeks of an infusion of rituximab including 
allergic like reactions such as rash, itching, joint pain, swollen lymph glands and fever
Severe blistering skin conditions that can be life-threatening. Redness, often associated with 
blisters, may appear on the skin or on mucous membranes, such as inside the mouth, the genital 
areas or the eyelids, and fever may be present.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data):
78
•
•
Serious viral infection
Brain and meningeal infection/inflammation (enteroviral meningoencephalitis)
Other rarely-reported side-effects due to rituximab include a decreased number of white cells in the 
blood (neutrophils) that help to fight against infection. Some infections may be severe (please see 
information on Infections within this section).
c)
If you or your child are being treated for granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) or 
microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):
•
infections, such as chest infections, urinary tract infections (pain on passing water), colds and 
herpes infections
allergic reactions that are most likely to occur during an infusion, but can occur up-to 24-hours 
after infusion
diarrhoea
coughing or shortness of breath
nose bleeds
raised blood pressure
painful joints or back
muscle twitches or shakiness
feeling dizzy
tremors (shakiness, often in the hands)
difficulty sleeping (insomnia)
swelling of the hands or ankles
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
indigestion
constipation
skin rashes, including acne or spots
flushing or redness of the skin
fever
blocked or runny nose
tight or painful muscles
pain in the muscles or in the hands or feet
low number of red blood cells (anaemia)
low numbers of platelets in the blood
an increase in the amount of potassium in the blood
changes in the rhythm of the heart, or the heart beating faster than normal
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people):
•
severe blistering skin conditions that can be life-threatening. Redness, often associated with 
blisters, may appear on the skin or on mucous membranes, such as inside the mouth, the genital 
areas or the eyelids, and fever may be present.
recurrence of a previous Hepatitis B infection 
•
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data):
•
•
serious viral infection
brain and meningeal infection/inflammation (enteroviral meningoencephalitis)
Children and adolescents with granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) or microscopic 
polyangiitis (MPA)
In general, side effects in children and adolescents with GPA or MPA were of a similar type to those 
in adults with GPA or MPA. Most common side effects seen were infections, allergic reactions and 
feeling sick (nausea).
79
d)
If you are being treated for pemphigus vulgaris
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):
•
allergic reactions that are most likely to occur during an infusion, but can occur up to 24 hours 
after infusion
headache
infections such as chest infections
long lasting depression
loss of hair
•
•
•
•
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
infections such as common cold, herpes infections, eye infection, oral thrush and urinary tract 
infections (pain on passing urine)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
mood disorders such as irritability and depression
skin disorders such as itching, hives, and benign lumps
feeling tired or dizzy
fever
painful joints or back
pain in the tummy
pain in the muscles
heart beating faster than normal
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data):
•
•
Serious viral infection
Brain and meningeal infection/inflammation (enteroviral meningoencephalitis)
Riximyo may also cause changes in laboratory tests carried out by your doctor.
If you are having Riximyo with other medicines, some of the side effects you may get may be due to 
the other medicines.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.
5.
How to store Riximyo
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the vial label after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C).
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
This medicine can also be stored in the original carton outside of refrigerated storage up to a 
maximum of 30 °C for a single period of up to 7 days, but not beyond the original expiry date. In this 
situation, do not return to the refrigerated storage again. Write the new expiry date on the carton 
including day/month/year. Discard this medicine if not used by the new expiry date or the expiry date 
printed on the carton, whichever is earlier.
80
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines that you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Riximyo contains
•
•
The active substance in Riximyo is called rituximab. 
The 10 mL vial contains 100 mg of rituximab (10 mg/mL).
The 50 mL vial contains 500 mg of rituximab (10 mg/mL).
The other ingredients are sodium citrate, polysorbate 80, sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide, 
hydrochloric acid and water for injections (see section 2).
What Riximyo looks like and contents of the pack
Riximyo is a clear, colourless to slightly yellowish solution, supplied as a concentrate for solution for 
infusion (sterile concentrate).
10 mL vial - Pack of 2 or 3 vials. 
50 mL vial - Pack of 1 or 2 vials.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
6250 Kundl
Austria
Manufacturer
Sandoz GmbH Schaftenau
Biochemiestr. 10
6336 Langkampfen
Austria
Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d. Ljubljana
Verovškova 57
1526 Ljubljana
Slovenia
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 2 722 97 97
България
Сандоз България КЧТ
Тел.: +359 2 970 47 47
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Tel: +420 225 775 111
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d filialas
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel.: +32 2 722 97 97
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 430 2890
81
Danmark/Norge/Ísland/Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Tlf: +45 63 95 10 00
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Tel: +35699644126
Deutschland
Hexal AG
Tel: +49 8024 908 0
Eesti
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 665 2400
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Ελλάδα
SANDOZ HELLAS ΜΟΝΟΠΡΟΣΩΠΗ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 216 600 5000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A.
Tel: +34 900 456 856
France
Sandoz SAS
Tél: +33 1 49 64 48 00
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 23 53 111 
Ireland
Rowex Ltd.
Tel: + 353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 96541
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
Latvija
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiāle
Tel: +371 67 892 006
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Tel: +351 21 000 86 00
România
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals SRL
Tel: +40 21 407 51 60
Slovenija
Sandoz farmacevtska družba d.d.
Tel: +386 1 580 29 02
Slovenská republika
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 48 200 600
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Puh/Tel: +358 10 6133 400
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz GmbH
Tel: +43 5338 2000
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website.
82
