17 October 2019  
EMA/687390/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): naldemedine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010753/201903 
Period covered by the PSUR: 21/09/2018 To: 21/03/2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for naldemedine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The  MAH  identified  nine  cases  of  gastrointestinal  perforation  in  their  global  database.  Two  of  the  nine 
cases have been classified as cases of interest by the MAH, one of which they consider ‘possibly related’ 
and other ‘probably related’. Both of these cases were fatal. Two of the nine cases were excluded by the 
MAH because they were not considered valid, and in the remaining five cases the MAH excluded a causal 
relationship in addition to the reporter. Whilst the more limited information provided in these five cases 
is acknowledged the assessor considers that the potential role of Naldemedine cannot be excluded in all 
of these.  
None of the identified cases are without significant confounding factors and the difficulties in definitively 
determining causality are acknowledged. Nevertheless, given the times to onset and the mechanism of 
action of Naldemedine which leads to an increase in the propulsive contractions of the intestinal muscle it 
is considered that Naldemedine could plausibly have contributed to perforation events in these patients 
who  were  already  at  increased  risk  due  to  the  presence  of  additional  risk  factors  including  underlying 
disease and concomitant treatments. 
Overall,  whilst  the  limitations  in  the  evidence  base  solely  for  Naldemedine  are  acknowledged  it  is 
considered  that  supporting  information  is  also  provided  by  other  agents  in  the  class  which  are 
mechanistically indistinguishable from Naldemedine and which have similar effects on the GI tract. It is 
therefore  considered  that  the  presented  cases  are  sufficient  to  support  an  update  to  the  product 
information to both section 4.4 and 4.8. The agreed update is aligned with the wording reflected in the 
product informations for methylnaltrexone and naloxegol. Cases of gastrointestinal perforation have been 
reported  in  post-marketing  setting,  including  fatal  cases,  when  naldemedine  was  used  in  patients  who 
were at an increased risk of gastrointestinal perforation. Naldemedine must not be used in patients with 
known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction or in patients at increased risk of recurrent obstruction, 
due to the potential for gastrointestinal perforation. Gastrointestinal perforation is added a new adverse 
reaction with a frequency “Not known”. The package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for naldemedine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing naldemedine is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/687390/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
