European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/26276/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
RoActemra 
International Nonproprietary Name: tocilizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000955 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE
................................................. 5 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier
........................................................................................................ 5 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
.......................................................................... 5 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION
....................................................................................................... 6 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction
.............................................................................................................................. 6 
Quality aspects
......................................................................................................................... 7 
Non-clinical aspects
............................................................................................................... 13 
Clinical aspects
...................................................................................................................... 18 
Pharmacovigilance
................................................................................................................. 46 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation
...................................... 51 
2/55 
 
 
List of Abbreviations 
ACR  American College of Rheumatology 
ALT  Alanine aminotransferase 
ANC  Absolute neutrophil count 
AST  Aspartate aminotransferase 
AUC  Area under the serum concentration-time curve 
BMI  Body Mass Index 
CBR  Cytokine binding region  
CDR  Complementarity determining region 
CHO  Chinese hamster ovary 
CI  Confidence Interval 
CIA  Collagen-induced arthritis 
CL  Clearance 
Cmax  Maximum Concentration 
CMH  Cochran-Mantel Haenszel 
Cmin  Concentration at the End of the Dosing Interval (Trough Concentration) 
CRP  C-reactive protein 
Ctrough 
trough concentrations 
CV  Coefficient of variation 
CYP  Cytochrome 
DAS  Disease Activity Score 
DMARD  Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drug 
DTH  delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction 
EIA  Enzyme immunoassay 
ELISA  Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay  
ESR  Erythrocyte sedimentation rate 
EULAR  European League Against Rheumatism 
FACIT  Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy 
FcRN  Neonatal Fc receptor 
GCP  Good Clinical Practice 
GD  Gestation day 
GI  Gastrointestinal  
gp130  Glycoprotein 130 (signaling complex)  
h  Hour 
HAHA  Human Anti-Human Antibodies 
HAQ-DI  Health Assessment Questionnaire – Disability Index 
HCP  host cell protein 
HDL  High density lipoprotein 
IEC 
IgG 
IL-1β 
IL-2 
ion exchange chromatography 
Immunoglobulin G 
Interleukin-1 beta 
Interleukin-2 
3/55 
 
 
IL-6 
IL-6R 
IPC 
ITT 
IV 
Interleukin-6 
Interleukin-6 receptor 
In-process control 
Intent-to-Treat 
Intravenous 
KD  Equilibrium dissociation constant 
MCB  master cell bank 
mIL-6R  Membrane bound interleukin-6 receptor 
MR16-1  Mouse specific interleukin-6 receptor antibody 
MRA  Myeloma receptor antibody 
MTX  Methotrexate 
NOAEL  Non observed adverse effect level 
NSAID  Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
PD  Pharmacodynamic(s) 
pJIA  Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
PK  Pharmacokinetic(s) 
PP  Per Protocol 
RA  Rheumatoid arthritis 
RF  Rheumatoid factor 
SD  Standard deviation 
SF-36  Short form health survey 
sIL-6R  Soluble interleukin-6 receptor 
SJC  Swollen joint count 
sJIA  Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis 
Initial half-life 
T½ (α) 
T½ (β)  Terminal half-life 
TB  Tuberculosis 
TCZ  Tocilizumab 
TFF 
TJC  Tender joint count 
TNF  Tumor necrosis factor 
ULN  Upper Limit of Normal 
VAS  Visual analogue scale 
tangential flow filtration 
Vss  Volume of Distribution at Steady-State 
4/55 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Roche  Registration  Ltd.  submitted  on  29  November  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  RoActemra,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended  
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
Treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who: 
 
have not been previously treated with traditional disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs) or 
have an inadequate response to one or more traditional DMARDs or 
have an inadequate response or are intolerant to a tumour necrosis factor antagonist. 
 
 
Tocilizumab Roche can be given as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate (MTX) and / or 
other traditional DMARDs. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 24 May 2007 and 20 September 2007. The 
Scientific Advice pertained to quality and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
At the time of submission of the application, tocilizumab was licensed in Japan for the treatment of 
Castleman’s disease. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:   Christian Schneider 
Co-Rapporteur:   János Borvendég 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMEA on 29 November 2007. 
The procedure started on 26 December 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 19 March 2008. 
The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  14  March 
2008.  
During the meeting on 21-24 April 2008, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the  applicant  on  25 
April 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  25  July 
2008. 
An inspection of the following site Chugai Pharma Manufacturing Co., Ltd. was carried out 
between 23 June and 3 July 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 9 September 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on 22-25  September  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 20 October 2008. 
5/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 4 November 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
list of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 16 November 2008. 
During the meeting on 17-20 November 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to RoActemra on 20 November 2008. The applicant provided the letter of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 20 November 2008. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA)  is  a  chronic,  potentially  debilitating  disease  that  is  currently  treated  by 
conventional  and  biotechnologically  produced  immunosuppressive  agents.  Although  a  several  potent 
drugs  are  available  there  is  still  a  considerable  therapeutic  failure  rate  observed,  necessitating  new 
treatment strategies. 
The  rationale  for  Development  of  tocilizumab  in  RA  has  been  supported  by  extensive  studies 
demonstrating that IL-6 is a pleiotropic pro-inflammatory multi-functional cytokine produced by a variety 
of cell types including various types of lymphocyte, fibroblasts, synoviocytes, endothelial cells, neurons, 
adrenal  glands,  mast  cells,  keratinocytes,  Langerhans  cells,  astrocytes  and  colonic  epithelial  cells. 
Elevated  levels  of  IL-6  have  been  implicated  in  the  disease  pathology  of  several  inflammatory  and 
autoimmune  disorders  including  RA.  Instrumental  in  RA  pathophysiology,  IL-6  has  been  shown  to  be 
involved  in  processes  such  as  T-cell  activation,  differentiation  of  B cells  into  immunoglobulin-secreting 
plasma cells, maturation of megakaryocytes leading to platelet production and is now well recognized to 
stimulate the production of acute phase proteins by hepatocytes. IL-6 also induces the synthesis of the iron 
regulatory peptide hepcidin during inflammation. 
Tocilizumab (RO4877533, TCZ), also referred to as myeloma receptor antibody (MRA), is a recombinant 
humanized anti-human monoclonal antibody of the immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) sub-class directed against 
the soluble and membrane-bound interleukin 6 receptor (IL-6R).  In vivo, tocilizumab has been shown to 
prevent  onset  of  bone  and  cartilage  destruction  in  a  collagen-induced  arthritis  model  in  cynomolgus 
monkeys. 
The  clinical  development  of  tocilizumab  for  the  treatment  of  RA  includes  two  dose-finding  Phase  II 
studies and five well-controlled Phase III studies investigating the use of tocilizumab, administered either 
as  monotherapy or in combination with  methotrexate (MTX) and/or other commonly prescribed disease 
modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs  (DMARDs),  to  adults  with  moderate  to  severe,  active  RA.  Long-term 
safety  information  and  data  supporting  the  durability  of  efficacy  are  derived  from  two  long-term 
open-label uncontrolled observation studies into which patients who completed the 24-week pivotal Phase 
III studies were eligible for enrolment.  
The initially proposed therapeutic indication is as follows: 
“for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who: 
  have not been previously treated with traditional disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs) or 
  have an inadequate response to one or more traditional DMARDs or 
  have an inadequate response or are intolerant to a tumour necrosis factor antagonist. 
6/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tocilizumab Roche can be given as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate (MTX) and / or 
other traditional DMARDs.” 
After review of the dossier, the indication has been revised and approved by the CHMP as follows: 
“RoActemra,  in  combination  with  methotrexate  (MTX)  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to 
severe  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA)  in  adult  patients  who  have  either  responded  inadequately  to,  or 
who  were  intolerant  to,  previous  therapy  with  one  or  more  disease  modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs 
(DMARDs)  or  tumour  necrosis  factor  (TNF)  antagonists.  In  these  patients,  RoActemra  can  be  given  as 
monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate.” 
RoActemra is supplied as a sterile liquid concentrate for solution for intravenous (iv) infusion available at 
a concentration of 20 mg/mL. Three presentations of tocilizumab are intended for registration. These are 
80 mg, 200 mg and 400 mg and have been selected to provide flexible combinations over the likely body 
weight range of patients 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Tocilizumab,  the  active  ingredient  of  RoActemra,  is  a  humanised  monoclonal  antibody  directed  against 
the human interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R) and is produced in a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell line by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
The  fermentation  process  is  a  serum-free  process.  The  cell  culture  filtrate  is  purified  by  a  series  of 
chromatography steps, ultra-diafiltration steps and viral inactivation and filtration steps. 
The  drug  product  manufacture  consists  of  the  formulation  of  the  drug  substance  with  excipients,  sterile 
filtration, aseptic filling into vials, stoppering and capping. 
RoActemra is presented as a concentrate for solution for infusion (20 mg/ml) in single-use vials. 
Active Substance 
Nomenclature 
INN Name: 
Compendial Name: 
USAN/JAN: 
Laboratory Code Name: 
CAS Registry Number: 
Other Names: 
tocilizumab 
not applicable 
tocilizumab 
RO4877533 
375823-41-9 
- recombinant humanised anti-human IL-6R monoclonal antibody 
- MRA 
Description of the active substance 
Tocilizumab is a recombinant humanised monoclonal antibody of IgG1κ subclass composed of two heavy 
chains and two lights chains, with 12 intra-chain and 4 inter-chain disulfide bonds.  
The N-linked glycostructures present in tocilizumab include complex-type oligosaccharide structures (see 
Section “Characterisation”).  
The total molecular weight of the glycoprotein is approximately 149 kDa. 
7/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Manufacture 
The  drug  substance  manufacturing,  release  testing  and  stability  testing  for  commercial  batches  is 
performed  by  Chugai  Pharma  Manufacturing  Co.  Ltd,  Utsunomiya  Plant,  16-3  Kiyohara  Kogyodanchi, 
Utsunomiya-city, Tochigi, 321-3231, Japan. 
Development genetics 
CHO DXB11 cells, derived from a CHO K1 strain, were transfected with an expression vector containing 
the genes encoding tocilizumab heavy and light chains as well as the DHFR gene. 
Transfected CHO DXB11 cells with the DHFR+ phenotype were selected and then cultured in stepwise-
increasing  concentrations  of  MTX.  Cells  were  selected  for  resistance  to  MTX.  By  this  process,  an 
integrated copy of the DHFR sequence and the flanking regions (i.e. the tocilizumab-encoding sequence) 
were  co-amplified.    From  the  cells  obtained,  CHO  V4  cells  were  cloned  for  use  as  seed  cells  for 
tocilizumab production. 
Cell bank system 
A two-tiered cell banking system of Master Cell Bank (MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB) has been 
developed and maintained in accordance to cGMP and ICH guidelines. 
The CHO V4 seed cells were adapted to growth in suspension culture in a serum-free medium, leading to 
the establishment of the original MCB (MCB-M1) and the original WCB (WCB-M1). 
MCB-M1  was  modified  during development  to  generate  a  new  MCB  (MCB-M2971)  and WCB  (WCB-
M2971). Finally, the current WCB (WCB-M2033) was established from MCB-M2971 by replacement of 
animal-derived raw materials, with the exception of some bovine milk and salmon-derived additives. 
Procedures  followed  for  the  preparation  of  MCB  and  WCB  have  been  appropriately  described.  An 
extensive range of tests has been performed for their characterisation, in accordance with ICH guidelines, 
including identity, viability, stability, presence of adventitious agents. 
Fermentation process  
A vial of WCB-M2033 is thawed and cells are expanded in a series of spinner flasks in a selective serum-
free growth medium to generate the cell inoculum. A series of bioreactors with increasing volumes is then 
used to expand the cell mass to generate sufficient cells for the inoculation of a production bioreactor.  
Following the production phase, the bioreactor content is harvested using tangential flow filtration (TFF) 
in  order  to  remove  cells  from  the  cell  culture  medium.  The  resulting  cell  culture  filtrate  is  then  further 
purified (see below). 
Cell culture conditions and in-process controls (IPC) have been sufficiently described and are considered 
appropriate. 
Purification process  
The purification process starting from the cell culture filtrate comprises the following steps, successively: 
- Protein A chromatography; 
- Viral inactivation step;  
- Anion exchange chromatography; 
- Mixed-mode ion exchange chromatography;  
- Ultra-diafiltration (UF-DF); 
8/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Nanofiltration;  
- Final filling and storage 
Each step of the purification process has been adequately described, including description of the different 
buffers  used,  column  regeneration  and  storage  conditions  of  both  columns  and  product  after  each  step. 
Suitable IPC controls are in place, with acceptable limits.  
Reprocessing is not performed in the manufacturing process of the drug substance. 
Manufacturing process development and process validation 
The manufacturing process for tocilizumab drug substance has evolved over time in four main stages: “1st 
generation”  (G1)  process  to  “4th  generation”  (G4)  process  corresponding  to  the  commercial  process. 
During  process  development,  the  cell  culture  media  used  for  tocilizumab  fermentation  process  changed 
several times to reduce the use of components derived from animal sources.  
The G4 process was developed to increase product yield. This included manufacturing site transfer with 
scale  up  in  fermentation  and  purification,  optimisation  of  the  cell  culture  media  and  fermentation 
parameters. 
Materials obtained from the G4 process were used in phase III clinical studies.  
Manufacturing process development data were considered satisfactory. For filiation assessment, extensive 
structural, physicochemical and biological analyses of materials manufactured pre- and post-change were 
conducted prior to the implementation of each new manufacturing generation. 
The tocilizumab manufacturing process was validated using data from commercial scale and scale-down 
models  with  respect  to  consistency  and  robustness  of  process  performance  and  quality  attributes, 
according  to  approved  validation  protocols.  It  was  demonstrated  that  the  G4  process  consistently 
maintains  process  parameters  within  specified  ranges  and  meets  acceptance  criteria  for  performance 
indicators. Overall, process validation was considered satisfactory. 
Characterisation  
A) Elucidation of structure and other characteristics: 
A comprehensive set of analytical methods was applied to characterise the structure of tocilizumab drug 
substance  derived  from  the  G4  process.  Characterisation  was  performed  with  respect  to  the  covalent  as 
well  as  the  higher  order  structure  of  the  tocilizumab  molecule  and  also  included  the  assessment  of  the 
heterogeneity with respect to glycosylation and charge-based isoforms. 
A1) Physicochemical characterisation: 
The complete amino acid sequence of tocilizumab was confirmed and the primary, secondary and tertiary 
structure were analysed.  
It was confirmed that the  disulfide linkages in tocilizumab drug  substance reflect the disulfide structure 
known for IgG1 molecules. 
Monosaccharide  composition  was  analysed  and  the  types  and  amounts  of  monosaccharides  identified 
(N-acetylglucosamine, fucose, mannose and galactose) reflect what is expected for IgG1 molecules.  
Analysis of the oligosaccharide composition has shown that the major glycostructures are constituted by 
core-fucosylated biantennary complex-type oligosaccharide structures differing in the degree of terminal 
galactosylation, i.e. containing two (G(2)), one (G(1)-1, G(1)-2) or no (G(0)) galactose residues. Besides 
the  major  glycostructures,  afucosylated  (G(0)-F,  G(1)-1-F,  G(1)-2-F,  G(2)-F)  and  high  mannose  type 
9/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oligosaccharides  (M5)  are  present  in  tocilizumab.  Sialylated  oligosaccharides  and  other  high  mannose 
type structures (for example M6, M7) are present at even lower levels. 
Ion exchange chromatography (IEC) revealed the presence of several isoforms. Structural characterisation 
of these isoforms demonstrated that differences between the isoforms are largely due to C- and N-terminal 
heterogeneity of the heavy chain and incomplete cleavage of the signal sequence from the N-terminus of 
the light chain. 
Investigation of charged-based isoforms was performed. 
The structural integrity of the tocilizumab molecule was tested. 
Size  exclusion  chromatography  (SEC)  was  performed  to  analyse  the  size  distribution  of  tocilizumab 
molecule.  The  two  peaks  detected  in  the  chromatograms  correspond  to  the  monomer  and  dimer  of 
tocilizumab molecule. 
A2) Biological characterisation: 
In the cell-based bioassay, the cell growth-inhibiting activity by tocilizumab was evaluated by addition of 
tocilizumab and IL-6 to the cells such that they compete for the IL-6R on the cell. 
The binding activities of tocilizumab to human soluble IL-6R were also assessed.  
In vitro data confirmed that tocilizumab has essentially no or minimal complement dependent cytotoxicity 
(CDC) activity and no significant antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) activity. 
B) Impurities: 
Product-related  substances  correspond  to  isoform  peaks  observed  by  IEC  as  well  as  the  dimer  and  the 
degradation peaks observed by SEC of tocilizumab drug substance. 
Potential process-related impurities include: 
- Cell substrate derived impurities: host cell proteins (HCP) and DNA; 
- Cell culture derived impurities; 
- Downstream-derived impurities such as leached Protein A; 
- Other impurities including endotoxin, bioburden;  
  Specifications  
The drug substance release specifications have been suitably justified and are supported by consistent data 
from  multiple  lots.  The  specifications  contain  tests  for  pharmacopoeial  methods  as  well  as  specific 
methods to ensure sufficient safety and quality with respect to identity, purity, quantity, potency. 
  Stability 
The design of the stability program, including the testing intervals and temperature storage conditions, are 
in  accordance  with  current  ICH  guidelines.  The  tests  chosen  are  a  subset  of  tests  from  the  release 
specifications selected for stability-indicating properties. 
The stability data provided were within the specifications and support a shelf life of 24 months at  -50°C 
for the drug substance. 
10/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
  Pharmaceutical development 
RoActemra is presented  as a concentrate for solution for infusion in a single-use Type I glass vial. The 
concentrate is to be diluted in 0.9% sodium chloride prior to administration. 
Each  vial  contains  80  mg,  200  mg  or  400  mg  of  tocilizumab  formulated  with  sucrose,  polysorbate  80, 
disodium phosphate dodecahydrate and sodium dihydrogen phosphate dihydrate and water for injections. 
These excipients are commonly used in formulating protein pharmaceuticals. Buffer, polysorbate 80 and 
sucrose are optimised to prevent protein aggregation that may occur in the vial on storage.   
The main changes to the formulation occurred during early clinical development and consisted of the 
removal of D-mannitol followed by the change of sodium chloride for sucrose. 
  Adventitious agents 
Tocilizumab  is  produced  in  a  serum-free  culture  medium  without  use  of  human-  or  animal-derived 
components; only fish, milk-derived and salmon-derived raw materials are added during the fermentation 
of tocilizumab. This minimises a possible contamination with adventitious agents. 
Compliance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  “Minimising  the  Risk  of  Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform 
Encephalopathy Agents via Human and Veterinary Medicinal Products” (EMEA/410/01 rev 02) has been 
sufficiently demonstrated. 
Extensive  screening  for  viruses  was  performed.  The  tests  did  not  reveal  the  presence  of  any  viral 
contaminant in the cells used for production of tocilizumab, with the exception of intracellular A-type and 
C-type retroviral particles. Such particles are well known to be present in CHO cells. This is acceptable 
since there is sufficient capacity within the tocilizumab manufacturing process for reduction of this type of 
viral particles.  
The  purification  process  of  tocilizumab  includes  several  steps  for  inactivation/removal  of  enveloped 
viruses. Viral safety has been sufficiently demonstrated.  
  Manufacture of the product 
The  drug  product  is  manufactured  at  Chugai  Pharma  Manufacturing  Co.  Ltd,  Utsunomiya  Plant,  16-3 
Kiyohara Kogyodanchi, Utsunomiya-city, Tochigi, 321-3231, Japan. 
The secondary packaging of the drug product is carried out at F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Wurmisweg, 
CH-4070 Kaiseraugs, Switzerland. 
Quality control testing and EU batch release of the drug product is performed at Roche Pharma AG, Emil-
Barell-Strasse 1, 79639 Grenzach-Wyhlen, Germany. 
Frozen tocilizumab drug substance is thawed and then stored until use (validated maximum storage period 
of 7 days). 
The drug product manufacturing process consists of formulation steps followed by an initial filtration of 
the formulated bulk solution (optional re-processing step), sterile filtration of the formulated bulk solution, 
aseptic filling into vials, stoppering and capping steps. 
There are no intermediates isolated during the manufacture of the drug product. 
The media fill and process validation results, lot-to-lot consistency data and critical process controls have 
shown that the sterile filtration and aseptic filling steps are robust and well controlled and that the drug 
product can be consistently manufactured. 
11/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Specifications  
Appropriate  specifications  have  been  developed.  The  specifications  contain  tests  for  pharmacopoeial 
methods as well as specific methods. 
  Stability of the drug product 
Real-time  and  accelerated  stability  studies  were  initiated  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines  and  per 
protocol to monitor the time-temperature stability of cGMP lots of drug product. On the basis of the data 
provided, the approvable shelf life for the drug product is 30 months at 2-8°C. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply with existing 
guidelines. 
From a Quality point of view, no Major Objection was raised during the evaluation procedure. However, 
the applicant was asked to clarify several aspects. These points have been solved.  
The  generation  of  the  original  cell  line,  from  the  expression  construct  to  the  selection  process  was  well 
described. Cell banks have been established and adequately characterised.  
The drug substance manufacturing process is well described. In-process controls (IPC) have been defined 
and the proposed action limits are acceptable.  
Process validation data is satisfactory. In the scale-down models for the chromatography steps, the column 
diameters  were  linearly  reduced  while  the  bed  heights  and  linear  flow  rates  were  maintained.  The 
applicant confirmed the suitability of these models for viral clearance validation. 
Manufacturing  process  development  data  is  satisfactory.  For  filiation  assessment,  extensive  structural, 
physicochemical and biological analyses of materials manufactured pre- and post-change were conducted 
prior  to  the  implementation  of  each  new  manufacturing  process  generation  (G1,  G2,  G3  and  G4, 
successively). 
The  drug  substance  has  been  well  characterised.  Sources  of  heterogeneity  have  been  assessed  in  detail 
using a wide variety of state-of-the-art techniques. The test methods chosen are considered adequate.  
Overall, impurities have been adequately identified and characterised. 
The pharmaceutical development of the drug product was considered satisfactory. 
The  drug  product  manufacturing  process,  together  with  IPCs,  have  been  adequately  described;  critical 
steps  have  been  defined  and  the  proposed  limits  are  acceptable.  Process  validation  was  considered 
acceptable. 
The  description  and  validation  of  analytical  procedures  for  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  were 
generally satisfactory except for certain methods for which additional information was requested. These 
issues have been solved. 
The applicant has revised the specifications; the acceptance criteria for several tests have been tightened as 
requested and the available data re-analysed accordingly. In addition, the suitability of the current tests to 
detect the major variants has been demonstrated.  
12/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On  the  basis  of  the  stability data  provided,  the  proposed  shelf  life  of  24  months  at  ≤-50°C  for  the  drug 
substance and 30 months at 2-8°C for the drug product are considered acceptable. 
Viral safety and safety concerning other adventitious agents including TSE are sufficiently assured. 
Chugai Pharma Manufacturing Co. Ltd, which is the manufacturing site for the drug substance and drug 
product, was inspected by the German inspectorate in July-August 2008. Several major deficiencies were 
identified. The applicant provided a corrective action plan that is acceptable. It can now be considered that 
this site is operated in accordance to current EU Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Non-clinical  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  compliance  with  the  good  laboratory  practice  (GLP) 
regulations.    Safety  pharmacology  studies,  including  cardiovascular  safety  studies  in  the  cynomolgus 
monkey,  conducted  during  preclinical  development  were  not  done  under  formal  GLP  requirements.  In 
addition, a further series of non-GLP investigations was also conducted as part of regulatory GLP-studies 
in order to address specific safety aspects of tocilizumab. 
Pharmacology 
  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Tocilizumab is a recombinant humanized anti-human interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R) monoclonal antibody 
of the immunoglobulin IgG1 subclass. IL-6 is a multi-functional cytokine, produced by a variety of cell 
types  and  involved  in  T-cell  activation,  induction  of  acute  phase  proteins  and  stimulation  of 
haematopoiesis. 
IL-6  has  been  implicated  in  the  pathogenesis  of  various  diseases,  including  inflammatory  diseases,  RA, 
inflammatory  bowel  disease,  osteoporosis  and  neoplasia.  IL-6  exerts  its  biological  activities  through  its 
receptors, membrane-bound IL-6 receptor (mIL-6R) and soluble IL-6 receptor (sIL-6R). Due to restricted 
expression  of  the  cognate  mIL-6R,  signalling  via  the  membrane-bound  pathway  is  confined  to  only  a 
small  population  of  cell  types,  which  includes  neutrophils,  monocytes,  T-lymphocytes,  B-lymphocytes, 
hepatocytes,  osteoblasts  and  keratinocytes.  However,  the  number  of  cell  types  expressing  mIL-6R  does 
not  reflect  the  full  spectrum  of  cell  types  that  can  respond  to  IL-6.  IL-6  can  activate  cells  that  do  not 
express the IL-6R through a process known as trans-signalling. In this process, IL-6 first binds to free sIL-
6R,  then  the  IL-6/sIL-6R  complex  binds  to  the  common  signal-transducing  molecule  [glycoprotein  130 
(signalling  complex)  gp130,  which  is  expressed  on  the  surface  of  most  cells.  This  process  enables  cells 
that do not possess the cognate mIL-6R to respond to IL-6 signalling. 
The preclinical pharmacology programme showed that tocilizumab specifically binds to the IL-6 binding 
site of both sIL-6R and mIL-6R with similar affinity. Therefore, tocilizumab is able to block IL-6 from 
binding  to  both  receptors  and  thereby  blocks  the  activity  of  IL-6.  In  vitro  studies  demonstrated  that 
tocilizumab can inhibit IL-6 binding to and displace already bound IL-6 from sIL-6R and that tocilizumab 
has  a  strong  anti-  IL-6  effect.  Tocilizumab  is  specific  to  the  IL-6R  with  no  binding  to  other  receptors 
associated  with  gp130  or  to  receptors  for  other  cytokines.  Preclinical  studies  showed  specificity  of 
tocilizumab to the IL-6R with no direct cross-reactive inhibitory effect on TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-15 or IL-2 in 
vitro.  
The  cynomolgus  monkey  was  chosen  as  the  pharmacologically  relevant  species  because  tocilizumab 
cross-reacts with monkey IL-6R under in vitro and in vivo conditions. In a cynomolgus monkey model of 
collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), tocilizumab was shown to prevent both the local joint and the systemic 
inflammatory disease manifestations. 
13/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Tocilizumab does not bind to IL-6R of rats, mice and rabbits. Tests in non-responder species are of very 
limited  value  for  target-specific  molecules,  such  as  therapeutic  antibodies.    Studies  did  not  show  any 
evidence for off-target effects of tocilizumab. 
  Safety pharmacology programme 
The  in  vivo  immunomodulatory  consequences  of  inhibition  of  IL-6R  signalling  were  investigated  in 
studies  in  mice  using  the  mouse  specific  IL-6R  antibody  MR16-1.  The  studies  demonstrated  that  IL-6 
inhibition per se does not affect the primary antibody response to a T-cell dependent antigen. The delayed-
type  hypersensitivity  reaction  (DTH)  was  only  reduced  when  IL-6R  signalling  was  blocked  during  the 
induction phase but had no effect at later phases. The data suggests an overall effect of inhibition of IL-6R 
signalling  on  T-cell  priming  rather  than  on  T-cell  differentiation,  IL-6R  inhibition  did  not  affect  the 
development of T-cell memory and T-helper cell activity. 
The cardiovascular safety of tocilizumab has been investigated in a series of preclinical in vivo studies in 
cynomolgus  monkeys.  Tocilizumab  showed  no  effect  on  the  cardiac  electrophysiological  performance, 
cardiac tissue integrity or systemic pro-thrombotic activities IV at doses up to 50 mg/kg. 
  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were not conducted with tocilizumab. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In a single dose intravenous study in rats values of ca. 200 h for terminal half-life, ca. 0.6 ml/h/kg for total 
CL and ca. 160 ml/kg for the distribution volume (Vss) were calculated after doses of 0.5, 5 and 50 mg/kg, 
respectively. Dose proportional increase in AUC was observed.  
From single dose intravenous studies in male cynomolgus monkeys values of 0.5 and 0.2 ml/h/kg for total 
CL and of ca. 60 ml/kg for the distribution volume (Vss) were calculated after the 5 and 50 mg/kg dose, 
respectively. A clear biphasic decline was observed. The comparability of the results for the 5 mg/kg dose 
obtained  in  a  study  with  female  monkeys  suggests  that  there  are  no  pharmacokinetic  differences  due  to 
gender  in  monkeys.  An  apparent  non-linear  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  in  the  monkeys  was  observed 
(dose  dependent  values  for  CL  and  over-proportional  increase  in  AUC)  which  was  more  pronounced 
between the lower doses (0.5 and 5 mg/kg) than between the 5 and 50 mg/dose groups. This resembles the 
findings in humans.  
The small values for the volume of distribution found in both species of about 1.5 to 2 times the plasma 
volume  indicate  a  low  tissue  penetration  of  tocilizumab  comparable  to  other  IgG  molecules.  From  one 
study  in  monkeys  using  the  s.c.  route  of  administration  a  bioavailability  of  72%  was  calculated  after  a 
dose of 5 mg/kg.  
A  multiple-dose  study  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  indicated  that  pharmacokinetics  of  tocilizumab  did  not 
change  upon  repeated  administration  over  8  weeks.  Neutralizing  anti-tocilizumab  antibodies  could  be 
detected  in  plasma  of  cynomolgus  monkeys  after  single  and  repeated  dosing  which  were  possibly 
responsible  for  an  apparently  accelerated  decline  in  plasma  concentration  of  tocilizumab  at  later  time 
points in the single dose study. 
A  distribution  study  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  revealed  tissue/plasma  ratios  of  tocilizumab  >  1  for  some 
tissues at day 28 p.i.. In most cases the ratios increased from day 7 to day 28 suggesting slow equilibration 
between  plasma  and  tissues.  A  10fold  higher  concentration  in  the  synovial  fluid  than  in  plasma  was 
observed  at  day  28.  Binding  to  blood  cells  was  rather  low,  ca.  20%  of  total  tocilizumab  in  blood 
14/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
circulation seems to be bound to/in blood cells. The extent of binding to plasma proteins, especially to the 
soluble receptor sIL-6R, has not been determined in animal plasma.  
Consistent with its nature as IgG, tocilizumab seems to be able to cross the placental barrier. In a segment 
II-embryo-foetal development study in cynomolgus monkeys foetal plasma concentrations of tocilizumab 
were 39% and 60% of the maternal plasma concentration after application of 10 and 50 mg/kg/day, resp. 
There  is  agreement  that  catabolism  pathways  similar  to  the  known  pathways  for  IgG  molecules  can  be 
assumed for tocilizumab. Regarding the Neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn)-mediated pathway a critical value is 
the affinity of tocilizumab to this receptor. The binding of tocilizumab to the human neonatal Fc-receptor 
(FcRn) was studied in vitro by surface plasmon resonance analysis. Based on the results of this study, it is 
concluded  that  tocilizumab  shows  an  affinity  to  human  FcRn  similar  to  that  of  other  therapeutic  IgGs 
(trastuzumab  and  rituximab).  Thus,  these  data  provide  evidence  that  tocilizumab  undergoes  the  same 
FcRn-mediated  clearance  and  transcytosis  processes  that  have  been  described  for  other  IgGs.  From  in 
vitro  binding  studies  at  Fc-receptors  on  PBMC,  it  is  assumed  that  binding  of  tocilizumab  to  the  FcγI 
receptor occurs in the expected nanomolar range for an IgG. 
Chromatographic  measurements  allowing  for  the  detection  of  metabolites  in  plasma  indicate  that 
tocilizumab is present in plasma mainly as unchanged tocilizumab. An additional peak (5%) was found in 
monkey plasma which was attributed to a tocilizumab-2xsIL6R-complex. The meaning of this observation 
is unclear unless circulating levels of s-IL6R and of the possible complex are measured in parallel and are 
compared in monkeys/humans/different disease states. 
Renal excretion of intact tocilizumab (measured by Enzyme Immunoassay (EIA)) was negligible in both 
rats  and  monkeys.  Radioactivity  was  primarily  recovered  from  urine  as  small  molecular  weight  entities 
(small  peptides,  amino  acids  and/or  free  125I)  in  both  rats  and  monkeys,  faecal  recovery  was  very  low. 
These results are consistent with the known elimination behaviour of IgG which undergo little if any renal 
or biliary excretion but mainly catabolism by proteolysis in lysosomes. The resulting small peptides and 
amino acids subsequently may be excreted or added to the endogenous amino acid pool. 
An in vitro study on hepatozytes indicates that the down-regulation of cytochrome (CYP) isoenzymes by 
IL-6 (mainly CYP3A4) is mediated via the IL-6 receptor, since tocilizumab is shown to inhibit this IL-6 
effect on hepatozytes in vitro. However, the relevance is not clear since this IL-6 down-regulating effect 
occurred  at  very  high  concentrations  only.  But  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  tocilizumab  might  indirectly 
influence the expression level of CYP enzymes in RA patients by inhibiting the down-regulating effect of 
IL-6. Co-administered drugs metabolised by this pathway could then be metabolised faster in the presence 
of tocilizumab. 
Comparison  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  tocilizumab  with  that  of  an  intentionally  altered  tocilizumab 
variant,  in  which  the  terminal  galactose  of  the  glycosylation  had  been  enzymatically  removed  (G0-
enriched  tocilizumab)  following  single  intravenous  administration  to  rats  revealed  very  similar 
noncompartmental pharmacokinetic parameters indicating that changes in galactosylation did not change 
tocilizumab  pharmacokinetics  in  rats.  Together  with  results  from  in  vitro  binding  studies  with  lectins  it 
can be assumed that tocilizumab has no relevant affinity for galactose-recognizing glycoprotein receptors 
and that such glycoprotein receptors are unlikely to contribute to the in vivo clearance of tocilizumab. 
Toxicology 
The cynomolgus monkey was chosen as the relevant responder species and a comprehensive toxicology 
program was conducted with single- and multiple-dose studies up to duration of 6 months to characterize 
the  overall  safety  of  tocilizumab.  Additionally  supportive  data  from  diverse  studies  conducted  with  the 
rodent analogue MR16-1 also were included in the assessment of the data. 
15/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  cardiovascular  safety  of  tocilizumab  has  been  investigated  in  a  series  of  rigorously  designed 
preclinical  in  vivo  studies  in  cynomolgus  monkeys.  These  results  indicate  that  tocilizumab  does  not 
adversely  affect  cardiac  integrity  or  electrophysiology;  neither  was  an  alteration  of  blood  pressure 
observed in any of the preclinical studies. 
Toxicity  studies  have  shown  tocilizumab  to  be  well  tolerated  in  cynomolgus  monkeys,  both  as  single 
intravenous (IV) doses up to 100 mg/kg and when given in multiple IV doses up to 50 mg/kg/day for 4 
weeks or at IV doses up to 100 mg/kg/week for 6 months. No major abnormal findings were observed in 
either the clinical pathology investigations or in the histopathological evaluation of tissues. The systemic 
steady state exposure to tocilizumab in these monkey studies was 8-to10-fold above the maximum human 
exposure  comparing  trough  levels  in  the  animals  with  the  maximum  level  measured  in  clinical  trials. 
Changes in haematological parameters were observed, e.g. decrease in red blood cell count or increased 
lymphocyte count.  
A  signal  toward  reduction  of  neutrophils  was  observed  in  the  2-week  toxicity  study  with  a  clear 
pronounced manifestation  in  the 4-week  daily  treatment  cynomolgus  study  with  no  manifestation  in  the 
bone  marrow.  The  absence  of  bone  marrow  myeloid  hyper  or  hypoplasia  in  the  presence  of  reduced 
absolute neutrophil counts (ANCs) along with the lack of neutrophil morphological abnormalities strongly 
suggests that neither peripheral sequestration nor incomplete granulopoiesis is the underlying mechanism 
of the reduced circulating neutrophils. 
As  expected  from  differences  between  human  and  cynomolgus  monkey  heavy-  and  light  chain 
immunoglobulin  sequences,  tocilizumab  is  immunogenic  in  the  monkey.  The  observed  anti-tocilizumab 
response showed a clear inverse dose relationship, an effect which is frequently observed with molecules 
of this type. Neutralizing antibodies were either greatly diminished or not detected in animals treated with 
high dose tocilizumab. Thus, the observed immunogenicity of tocilizumab in cynomolgus monkey studies 
did not compromise the results of these studies and their relevance for risk extrapolation to humans. 
The  studies  demonstrated  that  inhibition  of  IL-6  normalizes  the  inflammation-driven  osteoclastic  bone 
destruction  and  safety  studies  conducted  with  tocilizumab  demonstrated  that  a  morphologically  and 
functionally  normal  bone  homeostasis  is  maintained  under  continuous  chronic  IL-6  inhibition  with 
tocilizumab. 
  Reproduction Toxicity 
A reproductive teratology study was performed to address potential effects on embryo-foetal development, 
and supplementary data from IL-6 knock out (k.o.) and IL-6 transgenic mouse models were evaluated for 
functional and developmental risk assessments. The effect of tocilizumab on embryonic development has 
been evaluated in an embryofoetal toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys in doses up to 50 mg/kg/day. 
The  absence  of  any  teratogenic/dysmorphogenic  potential  of  tocilizumab  concurs  with  the  normal 
phenotype  reported  for  IL-6  deficient  mice  strains.  Neither  an  abnormal  phenotype  nor  any  effect  on 
reproductive performance  as  consequence  of  IL-6  depletion  has  been  reported.  Nonclinical  data  suggest 
that  IL-6  is  not  regarded  as  a  growth  factor  critical  for  the  development  of  the  musculo-skeletal  system 
and  growth  and  development  of  other  organ  systems  and  is  obviously  also  not  critical  for  the 
immunological control of the maternal/foetal interface. 
A higher incidence of abortion/embryo-foetal death was observed in the cynomolgus teratology study in 
the  50  mg/kg/day  high-dose  group  with  systemic  exposure  of  factor  >100  above  the  human  targeted 
efficacious plasma concentration. Therefore the NOAEL for this study is 10 mg/kg/day due to the possibly 
treatment-related abortion observed as statistically significant at a dose level of 50 mg/kg/day. But already 
in the 10 mg/kg/day group there were more abortion compared to the control and the 2 mg/kg/day group. 
The abortions observed in the study are unlikely to be a consequence of direct embryo-toxicity induced by 
tocilizumab. The transport of immunoglobulin G (IgG) across the transplacental barrier is dependent on 
the stage of gestation. The IgG transfer is low or absent in the first trimester, increases at around gestation 
16/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
day  (GD)  60  and  is  most  effective  in  the  last  trimester  of  gestation.  However,  foetal  exposure  to 
tocilizumab at the time when the abortions occurred is  considered to be nearly absent. This suggests an 
underlying  maternal  rather  than  a  direct  foetotoxic  effect.  The  findings  cannot  be  explained  by  the 
tocilizumab  mechanism  of  action.  Interleukin-6  (IL-6)  does  not  play  a  critical  regulatory  role  in  the 
control of pregnancy. In female IL-6 deficient mice, no abnormality of implantation was observed. This is 
in contrast to other factors of the IL-6 cytokine family that have a central regulatory function in the early 
physiological processes of implantation. Both in-vitro and in-vivo studies consistently demonstrated that 
IL-6  does  not  have  a  recognized  role  in  the  physiology  of  pregnancy.  IL-6  deficient  mice  represent  the 
most  sensitive  experimental  model  to  assess  such  functionality.  In  IL-6  deficient  mice,  the  reproductive 
performance investigated did not show a clinically relevant difference in female reproductive parameters 
such as litter size and neonatal loss compared to the wild-type background strains of mice 
Nonclinical  data  do  not  suggest  an  effect  on  fertility  under  treatment  with  tocilizumab  as  effects  on 
endocrine  active  organs  or  on  organs  of  the  reproductive  system  were  not  seen  in  a  chronic  primate 
toxicity  study.  There  is  also  no  preclinical  evidence,  that  IL-6  signalling  is  involved  in  processes  of 
reproduction,  and,  accordingly,  the  reproductive  performance  is  not  affected  in  IL-6  deficient  mice. 
Neither  monkeys  exposed  to  tocilizumab  over  more  than  6  months,  nor  IL-6  k.o.  mice  showed 
morphological  alterations  to  the  primary  or  secondary  tissues  of  their  immune  system  nor  in  any  other 
organ or tissues, demonstrating that IL-6 does not play a critical role in organ or tissue development at any 
stage. 
  Other toxicity studies 
In  clinical  trials,  mild  and  moderate  elevations  of  hepatic  transaminases  have  been  observed  with 
tocilizumab  treatment,  but  without  progression  to  serious  hepatic  injury.  Increased  frequency  of  these 
elevations was observed when hepatotoxic drugs were used in combination with tocilizumab or added to 
tocilizumab  monotherapy.  Tocilizumab  did  not  affect  liver  enzymes  in  cynomolgus  monkey  studies  in 
which IL-6 was elevated due to CIA induced inflammation. IL-6 is, however, known to have antiapoptotic 
and  growth-promoting  effects  in  hepatocytes.  In  vitro  studies  conducted  with  tocilizumab  on  human 
hepatoma cell lines have however not been able to clarify this clinical finding. Clinical Precautions and 
safety  monitoring  in  patients  and  long-term-extension  studies  are  in  development  to  address  this  issue. 
Furthermore serious hepatic events are an endpoint to be followed in pharmacovigilance and in registries; 
such  events  will  be  fully  queried  using  a  Guided  Questionnaire  in  clinical  studies  and  in  response  to 
spontaneous  adverse  event  reports.  Guidance  will  be  provided  in  the  product  labelling  under  Section  2 
“Posology and Administration” and Section 4.4. “Special warnings and precautions for use, regarding the 
monitoring of liver enzymes”. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Tocilizumab is a monoclonal antibody, a protein and as such formally exempted from environmental risk 
assessment  according  to  the  EMEA  guideline  4447/00  (2006),  which  assumes  no  significant 
environmental risks arising from proteins.  Based on standard acute ecotoxicity tests with algae, daphnia 
and fish and on lack of evidence for bacterial toxicity, the ecotoxic potential of tocilizumab is considered 
to be low. The excipients are degradable too and show no significant ecotoxic potential. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity.    
The embryo-foetal toxicity study conducted in cynomolgus monkeys showed no evidence of a teratogenic 
potential  of  tocilizumab.  A  slight  increase  of  abortion/embryo-foetal  death  was  observed  with  high 
systemic  exposure  in  the  highest  dose  group  (exposure  >  100  above  the  expected  human  efficacious 
concentration). The relevance of this finding for human pregnancy cannot be excluded.  
17/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
The  assay  for  measurement  of  tocilizumab  in  serum  (ELISA)  measures  “free  tocilizumab”  only,  i.e. 
tocilizumab with one or two free IL-6R binding sites. It is assumed that the measurement of tocilizumab 
reflects  the  total  amount  of  free  tocilizumab  plus  an  uncertain  fraction  of  tocilizumab  which  has  been 
bound to sIL-6R. Furthermore, it is assumed that antibody-bound tocilizumab would not be measured in 
the assay as well. Therefore, when interpreting PK data it has to be kept in mind that the concentrations 
refer mainly to free drug. However, the majority of tocilizumab present in human is expected to be free, 
i.e. not complexed to sIL-6R, as its molar concentration largely exceeds that of sIL-6R. 
The  main  PK  results  were  based  on  the  population  PK  analysis  from  4  Phase  III  studies  in  1793  RA 
patients with supportive data from non-compartmental analyses of clinical pharmacology studies.   
Non-compartmental PK analysis from single and multiple dose studies showed similar PK characteristics 
in  RA  patients  compared  to  healthy  volunteers.  The  PK  of  tocilizumab  was  characterized  by  non-linear 
kinetics over the dose range tested. CL was concentration-dependent. There was no deviation from a dose 
proportional increase for Maximum Concentration (Cmax) and a more than dose-proportional increase in 
AUCinf and Concentration at the End of the Dosing Interval (Trough Concentration) (Cmin). The over-
proportional  increase  in  AUCinf  with  increasing  dose  seemed  more  pronounced  between  the  2  and  10 
mg/kg  doses  than  between  the  higher  doses  (10,  20  and  28  mg/kg).RA  patients  showed  mean  values  of 
0,26  ml/h/kg  for  CL,  ca.  160  h  for  t1/2  and  ca.  60  ml/kg  for  Vss  after  10  mg/kg.  These  values  were 
comparable  to  healthy  volunteers  in  this  dose  range.  The  PK  parameters  of  tocilizumab  did  not  change 
with time.  
The  observed  concentration-dependency  of  the  tocilizumab  CL  could  be  best  described  by  a  population 
PK model rather than by non-compartmental analysis. A two-compartment disposition model with parallel 
first-order  (linear  CL)  and  Michaelis-Menten  elimination  (nonlinear  or  concentration-dependent  CL) 
kinetics  was  obtained  which  could  explain  convincingly  the  dose  proportionality  of  Cmax,  the  over-
proportional increase in AUC and Cmin and the apparent increase of half-life with dose observed in single 
and multiple dose ascending studies: 
The total CL of tocilizumab is concentration-dependent and is the sum of linear CL and nonlinear CL. The 
portion of the nonlinear CL is reflecting a zero-order process which is saturated at very low concentrations 
(estimated  KM:  2.7µg/ml).  This  is  believed  to  reflect  the  target-mediated  CL  via  binding  to  IL-6R.  At 
higher tocilizumab concentrations, total CL is mainly determined by linear CL which was calculated to be 
12.5 mL/h. 
Non-linear CL plays a major role at low tocilizumab concentrations. The average contribution of nonlinear 
CL to the total CL was less for 8 mg/kg than for 4 mg/kg tocilizumab every 4 weeks.  
Due  to  the  concentration-dependent  total  CL  a  calculated  terminal  half-life  must  appear  in  a 
“concentration-dependent” manner as well. Therefore, it should not be derived using non-compartmental 
analysis.  Nevertheless,  the  mean  apparent  t1/2  of  tocilizumab  following  a  single  dose  of  10  mg/kg  was 
18/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
estimated  by  non-compartmental  analysis  to  be  about  8  days.  Based  on  parameter  estimates  from  the 
population PK model, the effective t1/2 at steady-state ranged from 8 to 14 days for 8 mg/kg dosing every 
4 weeks. 
At high concentrations, when nonlinear CL becomes negligible, the apparent t1/2 can be calculated using 
the  formula  for  a  two-compartmental  model  with  the  linear  CL  term  only.  Applying  this  formula  to 
tocilizumab results in an apparent t1/2 of 21 days. This estimate of apparent t1/2 is comparable to the t1/2 
of human IgG antibodies (ie, around 23 days). 
A major conclusion is that due to the concentration-dependent PK, the total CL and/or apparent half-life 
estimated is only valid for a given dose and dosing interval and should not be translated to other dosing 
regimens. 
As  with  other  immunoglobulins,  tocilizumab  is  not  excreted  via  the  renal  or  biliary  route.  It  can  be 
assumed  that  tocilizumab  is  predominantly  eliminated  via  catabolism.  Therefore,  the  total  plasma  CLt 
reflects both degradation (in plasma)  and distribution to tissues/endothelial cells where  also degradation 
takes place. 
After multiple dosing with 8 mg/kg every 4 weeks, the predicted systemic accumulation ratio is small for 
Cmax and AUC (1.06 and 1.22, respectively), but higher for Cmin (2.35). For the 8 mg/kg dose, steady-
state is achieved following the first administration, after 8 weeks and after 20 weeks for Cmax, AUC and 
Cmin,  respectively.  The  predicted  coefficient  of  variation  (CV)  for  AUC  at  steady-state  for  8  mg/kg 
tocilizumab every 4 weeks was 44%.  
After  administration  of  the  8  mg/kg  dose  in  a  4-week  interval,  a  mean  (±  SD)  Cmin  at  steady-state 
(Ctrough)  of  9.7  µg/ml  is  estimated  showing  a  high  variability  (CV)  of  about  100%.  This  mean  Cmin 
value is close to the KM value (2.7 μg/mL) estimated for the nonlinear CL component, with Cmin being 
about  3.6-fold  higher  than  KM.  Thus,  the  Ctrough  values  are  in  a  concentration  range  where  small 
changes  in serum tocilizumab concentrations result  in a large change  in nonlinear CL. Furthermore, the 
expected Ctrough value is 65 fold higher than the calculated value for KD of tocilizumab for the binding 
at the IL-6R (KD about 1 nM = 0.15 µg/ml), thus indicating complete receptor occupancy even at the end 
of each 8 mg/kg dosing interval. 
Estimated  volume  of  distribution  during  steady  state  (Vss)  was  small  (6.4  L).  This  corresponds  to  1-2 
times the plasma volume which is in accordance with values obtained for other monoclonal antibodies. 
Protein binding in-vitro and ex-vivo or binding to blood cells has not been determined in human plasma. 
Results with monkey plasma indicate that during steady state ca. 20% of total tocilizumab concentration in 
plasma might be bound at/in blood cells. 
Consistent with its nature as IgG, tocilizumab seems to be able to cross the placental barrier. In a segment 
II-embryo-foetal development study in cynomolgus monkeys, foetal plasma concentrations of tocilizumab 
were  39%  and  60%  of  the  maternal  plasma  concentration  after  application  of  10  and  50  mg/kg/day, 
respectively. Data in humans are not available.  
It  is  unknown  whether  tocilizumab  is  excreted  in  human  breast  milk.  From  its  IgG  nature  it  has  to  be 
expected. 
  Special populations 
From the evaluation of the influence of different co-variates on the PK of tocilizumab (population PK) it 
can be concluded that no dose adjustments are necessary for age, gender or race as these did not affect the 
PK of tocilizumab. Body size had an effect on CL: With a flat dose, an increase in BW would result in a 
19/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
decrease in the secondary PK parameters AUC and Cmin. With a BW-adjusted dosing regimen the effect 
of BW on CL is accounted for. However, the BW-adjusted dosing results in higher exposures with higher 
BWs (>100 kg) and lower exposure in patients with low body weight < 60 kg (predicted AUC increase 
almost two-fold from lowest to highest body weight). This did not affect efficacy or safety parameters in a 
clinically relevant manner. Nevertheless, it is recommended not to exceed a dose of 1200 mg as this was 
the maximum dose in clinical trials. In order to minimise the risk of insufficient therapeutic response in 
patients with a body weight <60 kg, a recommendation for a dose capping at 480 mg was introduced.  
Although no formal renal impairment studies were conducted, both the results from one study with renal 
impaired  RA  patients  and  from  the  population  PK  analysis  do  not  indicate  an  influence  of  renal 
impairment on the main PK variables of tocilizumab. Thus, at least mild renal impairment does not change 
the PK of tocilizumab. For patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (CLCr < 30 ml/min) no data 
are available.  
Due to the lack of specific metabolism in the liver it is not expected that PK of tocilizumab is altered in 
hepatic impaired patients. Therefore the influence has not been studied.  
Other covariates with a statistically significant influence on the primary PK parameters were High density 
lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol, RF, total protein and albumin, however, these covariates did not change 
the PK of tocilizumab in a clinically relevant manner. 
  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The  influence  on  the  PK  of  tocilizumab  by  other  drugs  has  been  addressed  in  studies  for  methotrexate 
(MTX)  only.  It  is  known  that  MTX  can  decrease  the  CL  of  antibodies.  The  PK  data  from  two  studies 
indicate  that  MTX  appears  to  have  no/little  influence  on  the  PK  of  tocilizumab.  However,  it  cannot  be 
excluded that a small interference is causative for the slight but not significant increase in all four Cmin 
values during the four dose intervals in the 8 mg/kg groups with co-medication of MTX.  
The  influence  of  tocilizumab  on  the  PK  of  other  drugs  was  investigated  in  one  study  for  the  drugs 
dextromethorphan and omeprazol. A noticeable influence could only be detected for omeprazol.  
The  bioavailability  of  omeprazol  (10  mg  oral  dose)  was  decreased  by  about  20-30%  after  intravenous 
administration of 8 mg/kg tocilizumab. Since omeprazole is a substrate (and inhibitor) of CYP2C19 this 
can be explained with an inhibition of the down-regulating effect of IL-6 by tocilizumab.  
However, the finding that the CL of dextromethorphan (a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate) was slightly 
decreased  while  the  CL  of  its  metabolite  dextrorphan  (CYP3A4  substrate)  was  increased  (total  CL 
unchanged)  is  not  consistent  with  the  suggestion  of  a  general  inhibition  of  tocilizumab  on  the  down-
regulating effect of IL-6 which appeared to affect almost all CYP isoforms in vitro. However, this IL-6 
effect occurred only at very high concentrations in vitro. Thus, the relevance is not clear. 
For all other clinically relevant RA medications (NSAIDs, steroids etc.), no data about PK interactions are 
available  except  the  results  from  the  population  PK  analysis  in  which  none  of  the  co-medication  in  all 
clinical trials was identified as a co-variate influencing the PK of tocilizumab. Since it cannot be excluded 
that  tocilizumab  can  potentially  increase  the  CL  of  all  co-administered  drugs  which  are  metabolized  by 
CYP450 enzymes in the liver, also the CL of several NSAIDs and steroids might be affected. The possible 
interaction  is  most  important  for  CYP450  substrates  with  a  narrow  therapeutic  index  (eg,  warfarin, 
cyclosporin). This has been addressed accordingly in the SPC.  
There is an ongoing study (WP18663) in 24 RA patients to investigate the PK of MTX and the CYP3A4 
substrate  simvastatin  in  combination  with  a  single  i.v.  dose  of  10  mg/kg  tocilizumab.  Since  MTX  and 
simvastatin  are  important  co-medications  in  RA  patients  the  results  of  this  study  are  not  without 
significance. This issue is addressed in the Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
20/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
  Mechanism of action 
Tocilizumab specifically binds to the IL-6 binding site of both sIL-6R and mIL-6R receptors with similar 
affinity in the nanomolar range. Data from binding studies to modified hIL-6R variants suggested that the 
binding  region  of  tocilizumab  was  within  in  the  cytokine-binding  region  (CBR)  to  which  IL-6  binds. 
Therefore, tocilizumab is able to block IL-6 from binding to both receptors and thereby blocks the activity 
of IL-6. 
Tocilizumab inhibits both the IL-6 classical and trans-signalling pathways by binding to 
mIL-6R  and  sIL-6R.  The  binding  of  tocilizumab  to  the  receptor  prevents  receptor  binding  to  IL-6.  The 
tocilizumab/receptor complex cannot be bioactive since it is unable to effect the dimerization of the gp130 
molecule. In the absence of this dimerization, the IL-6 signal is completely blocked. 
  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In  healthy  volunteers,  an  increase  in  IL-6  levels  was  observed  following  administration  of  single 
tocilizumab doses of 1 and 2 mg/kg. Baseline values of IL-6 were all well below 10 pg/ml as it is expected 
for healthy volunteers. A clear but variable increase was observed for the 1 and 2 mg/kg doses with peak 
levels of 10-60 pg/ml occurring between 24 and 72 h post-dose. 
In  RA  patients,  administration  of  single  tocilizumab  doses  resulted  in  a  marked  increase  in  IL-6  after  8 
mg/kg  and  10  mg/kg.  In  one  multiple  dose  study  peak  values  of  up  to  1800  pg/ml  have  been  observed 
after the 8 mg/kg dose during the first days after administration.  
During the 4 pivotal Phase III studies the only sampling time points were pre-infusion and 2 weeks after 
infusion.  For  both  4  and  8  mg/kg  doses,  mean  IL-6  levels  peaked  at  week  2.  Since  this  was  the  only 
assessed time point these are no true peak values, from the former studies peak values are expected earlier 
during the first days after infusion. Due to the sparse sampling also the postulated tendency for a decrease 
in peak levels over time cannot be followed. 
The  observed  increase  in  IL-6  serum  concentrations  following  infusion  of  tocilizumab  is  believed  to 
reflect  the  binding  of  tocilizumab  to  the  soluble  and  membrane-bound  IL-6  receptors.  Following 
tocilizumab dosing, tocilizumab binds to the IL-6 receptors and blocks the receptor-mediated CL of IL-6, 
leading to an increase in serum concentration of IL-6. Across the studies, lower mean trough IL-6 levels 
were observed for the 4 mg/kg dose compared with the 8 mg/kg dose. Overall, IL-6 trough levels tended 
to  decrease  over  time.  This  is  believed  to  reflect  the  declining  production  of  Il-6  as  the  inflammatory 
process is controlled. 
A marked and dose-dependent increase in sIL-6R was observed in healthy volunteers and RA patients at 
single doses  ≥ 0.5 mg/kg tocilizumab. With increasing doses, both peak levels (up to 7-fold increase of 
baseline levels) and time to reach these peak levels increased (about 3 to 4 weeks after the 8 mg/kg dose). 
Following a single dose of 10 mg/kg to RA patients, peak sIL-6R levels were achieved at 4 weeks post-
administration with values returning to baseline approximately 8 weeks post-administration. At multiple 
doses  of  8  mg/kg  every  4  weeks,  high  and  sustained  sIL-6R  levels,  with  up  to  a  14-fold  increase  from 
baseline, were observed with only a slight fluctuation within the dosing interval. 
The increase in soluble IL-6 receptor levels with tocilizumab exposure is believed to be a consequence of 
the binding of tocilizumab to those receptors. It is hypothesized that the accumulation of sIL-6R in serum 
with increasing tocilizumab exposure reflects the slow CL of the TCZ/sIL-6R complex. 
21/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Using a gel filtration method it has been shown in healthy volunteers after a 2 mg/kg dose, that more than 
99% of sIL-6R was bound to tocilizumab. Since the sIL-6R assay measures only an unknown amount of 
these  complexes,  i.e.  it  is  underestimating  the  total  sIL-6R  levels.  Since  the  clinical  relevance  for  the 
increase in sIL-6R levels is not clear this discrepancy might not be important. The population PK analysis 
revealed that sIL-6R did not affect the pharmacokinetics of tocilizumab. 
A  feedback  rise  of  IL-6  and  an  up-regulation  of  IL-6  receptors  (and  hence  sIL-6R)  due  to  the  receptor 
blockade by tocilizumab is conceivable. However, the observed new increase after each dose is not fully 
consistent with the idea of complete receptor occupancy by tocilizumab throughout the whole interval. 
During the first-in-man study MRA001JP a decrease in the complement titres and IL-2 was observed. The 
observed  decreased  IL-2  reactivity  was  questionable  due  to  the  inappropriateness  of  the  IL-2  reactivity 
assay  method.  IL-2  reactivity  has  not  been  measured  in  subsequent  clinical  trials.  Reduction  in 
complement  levels  is  believed  to  be  consecutive  to  the  inhibition  by  tocilizumab  of  IL-6  stimulation  of 
hepatocyte acute phase protein synthesis. Further measurements of the time course of mean CH50, C3 and 
C4 in patients with RA in several studies in Japan showed that mean concentrations decreased to values 
around  the  lower  limit  of  normal  and  were  maintained  thereafter.  The  changes  in  complement  were  not 
clinically  significant  and  were  not  associated  with  symptoms  suggesting  extensive  immune  complex 
formation. 
After a single dose of 5 and 10 mg/kg tocilizumab in RA patients mean C-reactive protein (CRP) levels 
decreased  markedly  between  week  1  and  week  3  to  4,  respectively.  For  the  5  mg/kg  dose,  mean  CRP 
levels decreased by about 80%, from 1.7 ± 1.2 mg/dL at day 1 to 0.3 ± 0.1 mg/dL at week 1. By week 6, 
mean CRP levels had returned to baseline. 
In  multiple  dose  studies,  a  dose-dependent  decrease  in  CRP  levels  was  observed  in  RA  patients  with 
tocilizumab doses ≥ 4 mg/kg. For 8 mg/kg every 4 weeks, CRP levels were markedly suppressed as early 
as week 2 and sustained around the normal range during the entire dose interval (4 weeks) compared to 
MTX  (no  effect  on  CRP).  Only  slight  fluctuations  in  CRP  were  observed  with  this  dose.  For  multiple 
doses of 4 mg/kg every 4 weeks, fluctuations in CRP levels were greater than with 8 mg/kg. CRP levels at 
week  2  post-dose  were  low  and  similar  to  levels  for  8  mg/kg.  However,  for  the  4  mg/kg  dose,  CRP 
transiently  increased  at  trough  which  is  in  clear  contrast  to  what  was  observed  for  the  8  mg/kg  dose. 
Therefore, a sustained decrease in CRP throughout treatment duration was achieved for 8 mg/kg every 4 
weeks dose only, supporting this dosing regimen for the treatment of RA.  
Immunogenicity was monitored in all clinical trials with tocilizumab, the sampling time points during the 
four pivotal Phase III studies were every 2 weeks up to 24 weeks. A total of 18 out of 1793 RA patients 
(1%)  were  positive  for  anti-tocilizumab  antibodies  (HAHAs)  in  the  confirmation  assay.  In  addition,  the 
immunogenicity of tocilizumab was assessed as part of the population PK analysis, which investigated the 
effect of anti-tocilizumab HAHAs on the PK of tocilizumab. HAHAs were not identified as a covariate 
influencing the PK of tocilizumab. 
However,  neither  the  screening/confirmation  assay  nor  the  inhibition  ELISA  are  capable  to  measure 
already  built  complexes  of  tocilizumab-HAHA.  Thus,  the  HAHA-assays  measure  free  antibodies  only. 
Since it must be assumed that most of the HAHAs will be bound to tocilizumab (especially in the presence 
of high tocilizumab concentrations), the measured HAHAs are probably only a small amount of the total 
HAHAs built. Secondly, due to the small free portion of the antibodies they might not be detected at all in 
the studies. Thus, the true incidence of patients who built HAHAs and the quantity HAHAs measured in 
these patients might be underestimated. The issue of further monitoring immunogenicity is addressed in 
the RMP. 
The exposure-efficacy relationship showed an exposure-dependent decrease in DAS28 (clinical endpoint). 
Exposure  safety  relationship  showed  an  exposure-dependent  decrease  in  neutrophil  count.  PK/PD 
modelling  of  both  relationships  revealed  EC50  values  for  tocilizumab  of  3.7  µg/ml  (for  decrease  in 
22/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DAS28)  and  7.4  µg/ml  (for  neutrophil  loss  rate),  respectively.  Since  both  the  dose-response  curves  are 
close  together  it  becomes  clear  that  a  positive  response  will  necessarily  be  accompanied  by  a  certain 
neutrophil  loss  rate.  Comparing  these  EC50  values  with  the  predicted  values  of  about  10  µg/ml  for 
Ctrough and about 180 µg/ml for Cmax of tocilizumab during a 8 mg/kg dosing interval, a reduction in 
Cmax (reduction in infusion rate) might be considerable in order to reduce the risk of very high neutrophil 
loss rate. 
Clinical efficacy  
Tocilizumab (TCZ, MRA) is intended for the treatment of moderate to severe active RA. The applicant 
initially applied for a broad indication covering all clinical situations from first line therapy in previously 
untreated patients to patients that have failed on one or more anti-TNF medications.  
In  the  pivotal  trials  TCZ  has  been  studied  at  two  doses,  the  applied  dose  of  8  mg/kg  every  4  weeks 
corresponds to the higher of the two studied doses. A combination therapy with MTX, as is common in 
the setting of RA treatment with biologics, is left at the discretion of the physician. 
The  clinical  development  involved  five  pivotal  phase  III  studies  and  two  long-term  extension  studies. 
There are four supportive studies, two phase II studies supporting dosing recommendations and two phase 
III studies that are central to licensing in Japan. 
Table 4;  Overview of main studies  
Study ID 
Design 
Diagnosis 
Incl. criteria 
Study Posology 
WA17822  Three-armed, 
randomised, 
double-blind, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel group, 
multicentre 
Three-armed, 
randomised, 
double-blind, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel group, 
multicentre 
WA 
17823 
Moderate to 
severe active 
RA who had 
an 
inadequate 
response to 
MTX 
Moderate to 
severe active 
RA who had 
an 
inadequate 
response to 
MTX 
Placebo + 
MTX 
TCZ 4 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
Placebo + 
MTX 
TCZ 4 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
Subjs 
by arm 
entered/ 
compl. 
204 
214 
205 
394 
401 
401 
Duration 
Primary 
Endpoint 
24 weeks  ACR 20 
response rate 
2 years 
(ongoing) 
ACR 20 
response rate 
at week 24 
Change from 
baseline in 
modified 
Sharp score 
and change in 
physical 
function at 1 
and 2 years 
WA18063  Two-armed, 
double blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
Placebo + 
DMARD 
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
+ DMARD 
Moderate to 
severe active 
RA who had 
an 
inadequate 
response to 
DMARDs 
415 
24 weeks  ACR 20 
response rate 
805 
23/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WA17824  Two armed, 
double blind, 
double 
dummy, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
WA18062  Three-armed, 
double blind, 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled 
WA18695  Open label 
extension 
study, single 
arm 
WA18696  Open label 
extension 
study, single 
arm 
MTX 7.5-20 
mg/week  
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
q4weeks 
Placebo + 
MTX 
TCZ 4 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
+ MTX 
Active RA; 
MTX naïve 
or MTX 
discontinued, 
but not due 
to lack of 
efficacy or 
AE 
Moderate to 
severe active 
RA who had 
an 
inadequate 
response to 
anti-TNF 
agent(s) 
Patients 
completing 
17822 
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
q4weeks + 
MTX 
164 
174 
537 
1902 
TCZ 8 mg/kg 
q4weeks alone 
or plus 
MTX/DMARD
Patients 
completing 
WA17824, 
WA18062, 
WA18063, 
WP18663 
284 
24 weeks  ACR 20 
288 
response rate 
at week 24 
160 
24 weeks  ACR 20 
response rate 
at week 24 
Long term 
safety/efficacy
Long term 
safety/efficacy
The  applicant  has  designed  a  comprehensive  clinical  program  that  took  several  relevant  patient 
populations  into  account,  i.e.  MTX/DMARD  failure  patients,  anti-TNF  failure  patients  and  MTX  naïve 
patients.  Comparator  for  MTX/DMARD  failure  (study  WA17822,  WA17823,  WA18063)  and  anti-TNF 
failure populations (study WA18062) was placebo on the background of stable doses of standard therapy. 
Study WA17824 compared tocilizumab to MTX in a non-inferiority study. 
Endpoints in the clinical trials were very similar in all trials and involved response evaluation according to 
ACR,  DAS28  and  patient  reported  outcomes  and  were  fully  compliant  with  the  current  “Points  to 
Consider  on  the  Clinical  Investigation  of  Medicinal  Products  other  than  NSAIDs  in  Rheumatoid 
Arthritis”. 
  Dose response studies 
LRO301  was  a  20-week  Phase  II,  double-blind,  parallel-group,  placebo-controlled,  randomized,  seven-
arm, dose-finding study conducted in Europe, with TCZ given alone or in combination with MTX. This 
was the primary study used to support the doses investigated in the pivotal trials. 
The  trial  consisted  of  a  4-week  run-in  phase  with  weekly  MTX  (10 mg)  and  folic  acid,  after  which 
patients entered a 20-week active treatment phase (of four study infusions) and were allocated to one of 
seven treatment groups: TCZ 2 mg/kg plus MTX placebo, TCZ 4 mg/kg plus MTX placebo, TCZ 8 mg/kg 
plus  MTX  placebo,  TCZ  2  mg/kg  plus  MTX,  TCZ  4  mg/kg  plus  MTX,  TCZ  8  mg/kg  plus  MTX  or 
placebo infusion plus MTX. Patients took 5 mg folic acid weekly for the duration of the study. Patients 
were assigned to one of the seven treatment groups using the minimisation technique stratifying for centre 
and MTX dose level. 
24/55 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Tocilizumab  at  a  dose  of  2  mg/kg  in  the  monotherapy  setting  was  clearly  not  superior  to  MTX 
monotherapy and proved inferior in some aspects. Treatment with doses higher than 2 mg/kg was superior 
to MTX monotherapy. The 8 mg/kg dose appeared to be the most effective dose across monotherapy as 
well as combination therapy with MTX. However, there was no clear evidence showing improved efficacy 
with combination therapy. 
The following figure depicts ACR response rate at week 16 (LOCF, FAS population). 
Figure 4 
In  the  monotherapy  setting,  a  linear  dose-response  relationship  could  be  observed,  this  was  less 
pronounced  in  combination  therapy  with  MTX.  Doses  higher  than  8  mg/kg  were  not  tested,  this  is 
considered acceptable given the dose-response relationship that was observed. 
MRA009JP was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study that evaluated two 
different dose regimens of TCZ in patients who were not receiving concomitant DMARD. A total of 163 
patients from 29 sites in Japan received at least one dose of study medication. The primary endpoint was 
the proportion of ACR20 responders at week 12 (or the last observation prior to week 12). There was a 
significantly higher proportion of ACR20 responders in the TCZ groups compared with the placebo group 
(p  <0.0001).  Additionally,  ACR50  and  ACR70  response  rates  were  higher  in  the  TCZ  groups  than  the 
placebo group (see Table 5 below). 
Table 5 
25/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Main studies  
  WA17822:  A  randomized,  double-blind,  parallel  group  study  of  the  safety  and  reduction  of  signs  and 
symptoms during treatment with TCZ vs placebo, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), in patients 
with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 
  WA17823:  A  randomized,  double-blind,  parallel  group  study  of  the  safety  and  prevention  of  structural 
joint  damage  during  treatment  with  TCZ  versus  placebo,  in  combination  with  methotrexate  (MTX),  in 
patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 
  WA17824: A randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel group study of the safety and efficacy of 
TCZ monotherapy, versus methotrexate (MTX) monotherapy, in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. 
  WA18062:  A  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  study  of  the  safety  and 
reduction  of  signs  and  symptoms  during  treatment  with  TCZ  versus  placebo,  in  combination  with 
methotrexate  (MTX)  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA)  and  an 
inadequate response to previous anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) therapy. 
  WA18063:  A  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  study  of  the  safety  and 
reduction  of  signs  and  symptoms  during  treatment  with  TCZ  versus  placebo,  in  combination  with 
traditional disease modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy in patients with moderate to severe 
active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and an inadequate response to current DMARD therapy. 
  WA  18695/18696:  Long-term  extension  study  of  safety  during  treatment  with  TCZ  (TCZ)  in  patients 
completing treatment in TCZ core studies 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
A total of 4211 adult RA patients from 725 centres worldwide were enrolled in the pivotal Phase III trials. 
The key patient selection criteria for the pivotal Phase III studies are shown in Table 6 below: 
Table 6 
26/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For all studies, the treatment groups within each protocol were well balanced with respect to demographic 
and  baseline  RA  characteristics.  The  study  populations  were  representative  of  the  heterogeneity  of 
characteristics among RA patients with moderate to severe, active disease in terms of the range of disease 
duration and prior treatments as well as comorbidities and concomitant treatments such as corticosteroids 
and NSAIDs. 
Treatments 
In studies WA17822, WA17823, WA18062 and WA18063, patients received TCZ or placebo infusion in 
combination with MTX or other background DMARD therapy.  WA17824 was a monotherapy study. 
Table 7 
In study WA17824, patients were randomly assigned (in a 1:1 ratio) to either TCZ 8 mg/kg or MTX. In 
the WA17824 substudy, patients were randomly assigned (in 1:1:1 ratio) to either TCZ 8 mg/kg or MTX 
(as in the main study), or to receive placebo MTX weekly plus iv placebo every 4 weeks for 8 weeks (2 
infusions), followed by TCZ 8 mg/kg as an iv infusion every 4 weeks for the remaining 4 months of the 
study. Patients continued to receive placebo MTX capsules to maintain the blind (TCZ: placebo). In this 
study,  one  5  mg  (2.5  mg  capsules)  reduction  in  medication  (MTX  or  its  placebo)  was  permitted  for 
patients who, in the opinion of the treating physician, experienced dose-limiting MTX-related side effects. 
27/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose could not be increased at any time after the dose had been reduced nor could it be reduced to less 
than 4 capsules / week. 
Adjustments to study medication made for insufficient therapeutic response were permitted in all studies 
(escape therapy).   
Objectives 
The primary objective of study WA18063 was to assess the efficacy of TCZ vs. placebo in patients with 
moderate to severe active RA, with regard to reduction in signs and symptoms over 6 months of treatment 
in  combination  with  background  DMARD  therapy.  This  study  was  conducted  in  patients  with  an 
inadequate clinical response to current DMARD therapy. 
The  primary  objective  of  study  WA17824  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  TCZ  monotherapy  vs.  MTX  in 
patients  who  had  not  been  treated  with  MTX  within  6  months  prior  to  randomization  and  who  had  not 
discontinued previous MTX treatment as a result of clinically important toxic effects or lack of response 
(as  determined  by  the  investigator).    This  study  included  a  3-arm  randomized,  double-blind,  double-
dummy, parallel-group substudy with a placebo arm (8 weeks of placebo treatment followed by 16 weeks 
of TCZ 8 mg/kg) as an internal control for efficacy. 
With the exception of WA17823, all studies had a 24-week treatment period and the primary endpoint was 
the proportion of ACR20 responders at week 24. Study WA17823 is an ongoing study with two planned 
interim analyses, primary endpoints are evaluated at 6, 12 and 24 months. The 6-month primary endpoint 
was  the  proportion  of  ACR20  responders  at  week  24.  The  12  and  24  month  primary  endpoints  are  the 
change  from  baseline  in  modified  Sharp  total  radiographic  score  and  change  in  physical  function  as 
measured  by  the  area  under  the  curve  for  the  change  from  baseline  in  the  Health  Assessment 
Questionnaire  -  Disability  Index  (HAQ-DI).  After  year  2,  patients  can  enter  an  optional  open-label 
extended treatment period of up to 3 years.  
WA18695  and  WA18696  are  Phase  III,  open-label,  international,  multicentre  studies,  the  primary 
objective of which is to assess the long-term safety of TCZ 8 mg/kg as monotherapy or in combination 
with background DMARD therapy(ies) with regard to adverse events and laboratory result abnormalities. 
Secondary objectives include assessment of continuing clinical benefit using the same measures as in the 
core studies. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint in all pivotal studies was based on response criteria defined by the ACR at week 24. 
The  ACR20  response  rate  (the  proportion  of  patients  with  an  ACR20  response)  at  week  24  was  the 
primary efficacy parameter in the pivotal Phase III studies. An ACR20 response is defined as at least 20% 
improvement compared with baseline in both tender joint count (TJC) and swollen joint count (SJC), as 
well as in 3 out of 5 of the additional parameters shown in Table 7 below.  
Secondary efficacy endpoints were based on additional ACR response criteria and the European League 
Against Rheumatism (EULAR) measures of disease activity, which include defined changes to a disease 
activity  score  (DAS)  and  patient-reported  outcomes.  ACR  and  DAS28  are  both  based  on  a  core  set  of 
outcome measures combined to quantify disease activity (continuous variables), together with definitions 
of improvement (response variables). The core set of parameters is shown below: 
28/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
In  addition  to  the  patient-reported  outcomes  included  in  the  ACR  and  EULAR  criteria  (eg,  HAQ-DI, 
patient’s  global  assessment  of  disease  activity,  patient’s  assessment  of  pain),  other  secondary  outcomes 
relating to degree of fatigue and general mental and physical health were assessed for each patient. 
The  degree  of  anaemia  (haemoglobin)  and  rheumatoid  factor  (RF)  assessment  was  also  included  as  a 
secondary endpoint. 
Sample size 
The  sample  size  was  selected  based  on  data  from  a  Phase  II  dose-finding  study  (LRO301)  in  which 
ACR20 response rates of 60% to 70% were observed in the TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX and TCZ 8 mg/kg + 
MTX treatment arms, and a response rate of 40% was observed in the placebo + MTX arm. The response 
rates in the present study were expected on clinical grounds to be lower than these rates, in view of the 
relatively  treatment  refractory  patient  population  being  studied.  Allowing  for  15%  of  patients  in  each 
treatment arm being classified as non-responders because of missing data or early withdrawal and using an 
alpha level of 0.03 to accommodate for  multiplicity, a selected sample size of 150 enrolled patients per 
treatment  group  (450  overall)  was  sufficient  to  provide  80%  power  to  detect  a  difference  between  the 
proportion of patients achieving ACR20 scores in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX and placebo + MTX treatment 
arms, assuming that the proportion of patients achieving an ACR20 response would be 50% in the TCZ 8 
mg/kg + MTX group and 30% in the placebo + MTX group. 
Randomisation 
Randomization  was  administered  centrally  via  an  interactive  voice  response  system  (IVRS)  and  was 
stratified by ‘site’ using a randomization list provided by Sponsor. A patient’s eligibility was evaluated by 
the  investigator  to  ensure  that  the  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were  met  and  that  the  patient  was 
eligible  for  participation  in  the  study.  Eligible  patients  were  then  randomized  and  assigned  a  unique 
randomization  number.  Medication  numbers  were  assigned  by  the  IVRS  prior  to  dosing  at  each  dosing 
visit  depending  on  the  patient’s  weight  and  allocated  treatment  arm  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  correct 
dosage was provided. 
Blinding (masking) 
In  case  of  blinding,  the  study  was  blinded  with  the  sponsor,  investigators,  and  patients  unaware  of  the 
treatment assignment of each patient. A patient’s treatment assignment was only to be unblinded in cases 
where  knowledge  of  the  identity  of  the  test  medication  was  essential  for  further  patient  management. 
Patients whose treatment assignments were unblinded did not receive any further study treatment. 
29/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Statistical methods were appropriate. The approaches taken were appropriately conservative. The intent-
to-treat  (ITT)  population  was  defined  as  the  primary  analysis  population  for  all  trials  other  than 
WA17824.  This  study  was  a  non-inferiority  trial  and  the  PP  population  was  the  primary  analysis 
population, as is standard in studies of this type. Categorical data were analyzed using the Cochran-Mantel 
Haenszel (CMH) chi-square test, adjusted for site, which is a standard test used for analyses of this type. 
In addition, the data were analyzed using logistic regression, allowing for the odds ratio to be presented 
and  adjusted  for  site  as  well  as  an  assessment  of  other  covariates  in  the  model.  The  logistic  regression 
analyses provided confirmation of the results using CMH. Appropriate measures for handling of missing 
data were employed 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The most important data (Nr. of patients randomized, completed/withdrawn, distribution of patients per 
arms, etc) of pivotal studies are shown below: 
Of  the  4211  patients  randomized  into  the  TCZ  Phase  III  programme,  4098  received  study  medication: 
1170  (28%)  received  placebo  +  DMARD,  774  (18%)  received  TCZ  4  mg/kg  +  MTX,  1582  (38%) 
received  TCZ  8  mg/kg  +  DMARD,  284  patients  (7%)  received  MTX  monotherapy,  288  (7%)  patients 
received TCZ 8 mg/kg monotherapy and 101 patients (2%) received 8 weeks of placebo followed by 16 
weeks of TCZ 8 mg/kg (placebo / TCZ 8 mg/kg). Table 8 below presents the number of patients in each 
treatment group, by study. 
The disposition of patients in study WA18695/8696 is shown below: 
30/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 
Recruitment 
The earliest pivotal study started in 2004, the latest ones in 2005. One was completed in November 2006; 
all the others in 2007. The extension study started in August 2005 and the cut off date of these ongoing 
studies was on 20 April 2007. 
Conduct of the study 
Minor amendments were made in some studies, either not affecting outcomes or statistical analysis or in 
order to make studies uniform. 
Baseline data 
For all studies, the treatment groups within each protocol were balanced with respect to demographic and 
baseline  RA  characteristics.  The  study  populations  were  representative  of  the  heterogeneity  of 
characteristics among RA patients with moderate to severe, active disease in terms of the range of disease 
duration and prior treatments as well as comorbidities and concomitant treatments such as corticosteroids 
and  NSAIDs.  Unfortunately  the  number  of  DMARD  naive  patients  were  only  relatively  small  (129 
patients in the MTX group and 115 patients in the TCZ group). (Study WA17824). 
Numbers analysed 
ITT population is shown in the Table below: 
31/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 
When ITT and per-protocol (PP) analysis were compared, no statistically significant differences were 
observed 
Outcomes and estimation 
A summary of results of the main studies is given below: 
WA17822:  
ACR20 (%) 
Placebo + MTX  
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX 
(n=204): 26.5% 
(n=213): 47.9% 
(n=205): 58.5% 
For  both  TCZ  +  MTX  groups,  there  was  a  highly  statistically  significant  difference  from  the  placebo  + 
MTX  group  in  the  proportion  of  ACR20  responders  at  week  24  (p  <  0.0001  for  both  groups).  Similar 
results  were  obtained  for  the  ITT  robustness  and  PP  population  analyses  of  the  primary  efficacy 
parameter. Logistic regression analysis showed that the odds of achieving an ACR20 response at week 24 
were 3 times higher for patients receiving TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX and 6 times higher for patients receiving 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX than for patients receiving placebo + MTX.  ACR20 response rates were higher in 
the  TCZ  +  MTX  groups  compared  with  the  placebo  +  MTX  group  at  all  time  points  from  the  first 
scheduled assessment at week 2, with the highest rates being consistently observed in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + 
MTX group. Secondary endpoint analyses (not shown) supported the primary efficacy findings. 
WA17823: 
ACR20 (%) 
Placebo + MTX  
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX 
(n=393): 27% 
(n=399): 51% 
(n=398): 56% 
32/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the primary endpoint, ACR20 response at week 24 (=interim analysis), significantly more patients in 
both TCZ + MTX arms compared with the placebo + MTX arm achieved a response (p < 0.0001 for both 
comparisons).  Analysis  of  all  secondary  endpoints  related  to  disease  activity  demonstrated  significantly 
better efficacy with TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX compared with placebo + MTX (data not shown). This included 
improvements from baseline in all ACR core set parameters (TJC, SJC, pain VAS, CRP, physician global 
VAS, patient global VAS, Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), HAQ-DI) as well as the higher clinical 
hurdle  secondary  endpoints  such  as  ACR50,  ACR70,  DAS28  remission  and  EULAR  good’  response. 
Treatment  with  TCZ  8  mg/kg  +  MTX  was  associated  with  a  significant  increase  in  mean  haemoglobin 
levels compared with the placebo + MTX arm, with the most profound effects being observed in anaemic 
patients. More patients in the placebo + MTX arm compared with the TCZ + MTX arms either withdrew 
as a result of lack of efficacy or switched to escape therapy due to failure to achieve a > 20% improvement 
in SJC and TJC. 
Evaluation  of  the  inhibition  of  progression  of  structural  damage  was  a  pre-defined  endpoint  in  study 
WA17823.    The  mean  change  of  the  total  Sharp-Genant  Score  at  week  52  was  significantly  lower  for 
patients treated with TCZ + MTX (0.34 and 0.29 for the 4 mg/kg and 8 mg/kg groups, respectively) than 
for patients who received placebo + MTX (1.13, p < 0.0001 for both comparisons). 
WA17824: 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with an ACR20 response at Week 24. The proportion 
of  ACR20  responders  at  Week  24  was  52.1%  in  the  MTX  group  and  70.6%  in  the  TCZ  group,  with  a 
weighted difference of 0.21 (95% CI 0.13 to 0.29). The lower limit of the CI was 0.13. Since the lower 
limit  is  greater  than  –0.12  (pre-defined  non-inferiority  limit),  treatment  with  TCZ  was  considered  non-
inferior to treatment with MTX. As TCZ was shown to be at least non inferior to MTX, further testing for 
superiority to MTX was conducted. For the purposes of this assessment the ITT population was used. The 
weighted difference in ACR20 response at Week 24 was 0.19 (95% CI 0.11 to 0.27). Since the lower limit 
of  the  95%  CI  of  the  treatment  difference  was  greater  than  0,  treatment  with  TCZ  8  mg/kg  was 
demonstrated to be superior to treatment with MTX. This result  was highly statistically significant (p < 
0.0001).  To  support  the  conclusions  from  the  primary  analysis  a  comparison  was  made  between  all 
patients treated with TCZ and the placebo treated patients enrolled into the placebo controlled substudy. 
The ITT population was used for this assessment. As patients in this study received placebo only for the 
first  8  weeks,  this  analysis  compared  proportions  of  patients  achieving  an  ACR20  response  at  Week  8. 
The proportion of ACR20 responders at Week 8 was 13.1% in the placebo/TCZ group and 55.6% in the 
TCZ  group.  The  weighted  difference  in  ACR20  response  at  8  weeks  was  0.43  (95%  CI  0.34  to  0.52). 
Since  the  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  for  the  weighted  difference  was  greater  than  0,  TCZ  8  mg/kg  is 
considered to be superior to treatment with placebo at Week 8. In general, all secondary endpoints tested 
were  positive  and  supported  the  improved  efficacy  of  TCZ  compared  with  MTX  observed  with  the 
primary efficacy endpoint. Logistic regression analyses showed the odds of achieving an ACR20 response 
at Week 24 were approximately 3 times higher in the TCZ group. In addition to the differences observed 
at  Week  24,  onset  of  response  occurred  earlier  in  the  TCZ  group  with  differences  between  the  two 
treatment  groups  apparent  as  early  as  Week  2  (ie,  first  scheduled  assessment)  for  ACR20  response.  By 
Week 2, an increase in mean haemoglobin value of 7 g/l was observed in the TCZ group compared with a 
mean decrease of 3 g/l in the MTX group.  
WA18062: 
The proportion of patients achieving ACR20, 50, or 70 responses at Week 24 was consistently higher in 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX group than the TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX group or the placebo + MTX group (ACR20: 
50%  vs  30%  and  10%,  ACR50:  29%  vs  17%  and  4%,  ACR70:  12%  vs  5%  and  1%,  respectively).  In 
addition, irrespective of the most recently failed anti-TNF medication and the number of previously failed 
anti-TNF  medications,  TCZ  8  mg/kg  +  MTX  was  shown  to  be  beneficial  in  this  difficult-to-treat 
33/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
population in all three of these parameters. Similar results were obtained in the PP population analysis and 
in  several  sensitivity  analyses  investigating  different  methods  of  imputation  for  missing  data.  Logistic 
regression  analysis  indicated  that  the  odds  of  achieving  an  ACR20  response  at  Week  24  were  9  times 
higher for patients receiving TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX and 4 times higher for patients receiving TCZ 4 mg/kg 
+ MTX than for patients receiving placebo + MTX. Importantly, a statistically significant and clinically 
meaningful benefit over placebo + MTX was observed in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX group in the higher 
clinical  disease  hurdles  such  as  ACR50  and  ACR70  response,  EULAR  ‘good’  response,  and  DAS28 
remissions rates. In addition to the demonstrated benefits at Week 24, the onset of response occurred early 
in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX group, with differences from the placebo + MTX group becoming apparent as 
early as the first scheduled assessment (Week 2). Finally, the benefits of TCZ treatment were reflected in 
the  large  numbers  of  placebo  +  MTX  patients  who  either  withdrew  from  the  study  due  to  insufficient 
therapeutic  response  (11%)  or  entered  the  escape  phase  at  Week  16  (41%)  compared  with  early 
withdrawal and escape rates of 2% and 11% for patients receiving TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX. 
WA18063: 
The  proportion  of  ACR20  responders  at  week  24  was  61%  (488/803  patients)  in  the  TCZ  8  mg/kg  + 
DMARDs group and 25% (101/413 patients) in the placebo + DMARDs group. For the TCZ 8 mg/kg + 
DMARDs  group,  there  was  a  highly  statistically  significant  difference  from  the  placebo  +  DMARDs 
group in the proportion of ACR20 responders at week 24 (p < 0.0001). Similar results were obtained for 
the  ITT  robustness  and  PP  population  analyses  of  the  primary  efficacy  parameter.  Logistic  regression 
analysis showed the odds of achieving an ACR20 response at week 24 were 6 times higher for patients 
receiving TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARDs than for patients receiving placebo + DMARDs. ACR 20 response 
rates were higher in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARDs group compared with the placebo + DMARDs group at 
all time points from the first scheduled assessment at week 2.  
Secondary endpoint analyses supported the primary efficacy findings. At week 24, statistically significant 
differences from the placebo + DMARDs group were achieved for the TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARDs group 
for all secondary endpoints related to disease activity. In addition to the differences observed at week 24, 
onset of response occurred early in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARDs group and differences between the TCZ 
8  mg/kg  +  DMARDs  group  and  the  placebo  +  DMARDs  group  were  apparent  by  week  2  (ie,  the  first 
scheduled assessment). A highly statistically significant increase in haemoglobin was also observed in the 
TCZ compared with the placebo + DMARDs group. An increase of 6 g/L in mean haemoglobin values in 
the TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARDs group was observed early at the first scheduled assessment for haemoglobin 
at  week  2  and  mean  haemoglobin  increase  at  week  24  was  9.753  g/L  in  TCZ  +  8  mg/kg  +  DMARDs 
group  vs  a  mean  decrease  of  1.280  g/L  in  placebo  +  DMARDs  group.  For  the  primary  and  secondary 
efficacy endpoints at week 24 and throughout the 24-week treatment period, the greatest responses were 
consistently observed in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARDs group. 
WA18695/18696: 
At the time of the data cut, the median treatment duration was 41 weeks in the WA17824 group, 52 weeks 
in the WA18062 group, and 61 weeks in the pooled group. Response rates to therapy with 8 mg/kg TCZ 
(+DMARD)  were  generally  maintained  or  continued  to  improve  with  duration  of  treatment.  For  all 
efficacy endpoints, the highest response rates were consistently achieved and maintained in the WA17824 
group, followed by the pooled group, and then the WA18062 group. However, the pattern of response was 
similar  across  all  groups,  ie,  increasing  response  rate  after  the  first  24  weeks  of  treatment  as  well  as 
durability  of  responses.  The  very  low  number  of  withdrawals  due  to  insufficient  therapeutic  response 
(2.4%)  supports  the  observed  improvement  in  efficacy  during  long-term  TCZ  treatment.  Reported 
categorical  endpoints  (ACR20,  ACR50,  ACR70,  ACR90,  and  EULAR  response)  were  affected  by 
imputation  of  missing  data,  as  response  was  generally  assessed  every  12 weeks,  and  the  study  was  still 
ongoing at the data cut. The mean ACRn response increased over time in all 3 study groups and at week 
72 reached 48.2 in the WA17824 group, 25.5 in the WA18062 group, and 44.9 in the pooled group. Mean 
ACR core set parameters and the mean DAS28 showed further improvement after the first 24 weeks of 
34/55 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment in all 3 groups. The number of patients who reduced or stopped corticosteroid/DMARD use due 
to sustained  efficacy was  31 and 15 patients, respectively. An improvement in  mean haemoglobin level 
Improvements in RA disease activity were accompanied by an improvement in the patients’ quality of life. 
Results  from  the  SF-36  patient  questionnaire  demonstrated  that  both  the  mean  physical  and  mental 
component  summary  scores  improved  from  baseline  by  more  than  the  minimal  clinically  important 
difference.  At  the  week  48  visit,  change  from  baseline  in  all  8  domains  included  in  the  SF-36  score 
exceeded  the  minimal  clinically  important  difference  in  all  3  study  groups.  The  mean  Functional 
Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-fatigue score increased from baseline and then remained 
stable for the duration of the studies. A substantial proportion of patients were able to achieve the highest 
degrees of efficacy indicative of clinical remission or low disease activity. 
Ancillary analyses 
  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The results from the individual studies provide evidence of the efficacy of TCZ in patients with moderate 
to  severe  active  RA.  However,  to  provide  an  estimate  of  the  treatment  effect  of  TCZ  in  the  DMARD 
inadequate responder patient population and to investigate the effect of TCZ where there are likely to be 
small  differences  between  the  treatment  groups,  studies  WA17822,  WA17823  and  WA18063  were 
pooled.  
These studies have been considered appropriate to pool based on study design, demographic and baseline 
characteristics and homogeneity of treatment effect. With this pooling, the results of pivotal studies can be 
grouped into: 
a) DMARD inadequate responders 
b) anti-TNF-inadequate responders 
c) TCZ monotherapy 
The comparison of results of the primary efficacy criteria is shown below: 
Table 11 
35/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  5:  Proportion  of  ACR20,  ACR50  and  ACR70  responders  at  week  24  for  studies  WA17822 
(inadequate MTX responders), WA17823 (inadequate MTX responders) and WA18063 (inadequate 
DMARD responders) 
  Clinical studies in special populations 
Of  the  various  groups  (children,  elderly,  gender,  race  and  weight/BMI),  only body  weight (BW)  has  an 
impact upon PK of TCZ. There was a slight decrease in clinical efficacy among patients with body weight 
over  100  kg.  However,  a  logistic  regression  model  failed  to  show  any  significant  differences  between 
treatment subgroups. 
  Supportive studies 
Joint Damage Study MRA012JP: At the time of this submission, there are no radiographic data from the 
pivotal  studies.  However,  data  showing  the  effects  of  TCZ  on  inhibiting  structural  joint  damage,  bone 
densitometry  and  markers  of  bone  metabolism  are  available  from  a  supportive  study,  MRA012JP,  in 
Japanese patients from the Chugai development program.  
This was a multi-centre, parallel group, open-label study conducted at 26 centres in Japan in RA patients 
who  had  an  inadequate  response  to  current  DMARD  or  immunosuppressive  therapy.  Patients  were 
randomized to remain on existing DMARD or immunosuppressant treatment or TCZ 8 mg/kg iv every 4 
36/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
weeks for 52 weeks. In the control group, the concomitant use of drugs that slow bone or joint destruction 
(eg,  infliximab,  etanercept,  leflunomide)  was  prohibited.  No  restrictions  were  placed  on  switching 
DMARDs or the doses of DMARDs and immunosuppressants for treating RA from the first observations 
onwards.  The  primary  endpoint  was  the  change  in  erosion  score  at  week  52,  according  to  the  modified 
Total  Sharp  Score  methodology  of  radiograph  reading.  Radiographs  were  scored  by  two  blinded 
independent readers using the van der Heijde modified Sharp method. The time course of absolute change 
in  lumbar  and  femoral  bone  mineral  density  (BMD)  measured  by  dual  energy  X-ray  absorptiometry 
(DEXA) at weeks 28 and 52 was assessed as a secondary endpoint. The treatment groups were generally 
well-balanced with respect to baseline demographic and disease characteristics. The mean duration of RA 
was 2.4 years in the control group and 2.2 years in the TCZ group. Mean baseline DAS28 scores were 6.4 
in the control group and 6.5 in the TCZ group. Mean baseline Total Sharp Scores were 30.6 and 28.3 in 
the control and TCZ groups, respectively, and the rate of annual progression was 12.3/year in the control 
group  and  14.1/year  in  the  TCZ  group.  At  week  52,  the  TCZ  group  had  statistically  significantly  less 
radiographic change in Total Sharp Score, Erosion Score and Joint Space Narrowing compared with the 
control group. Additionally, there were significant differences between the treatment groups in changes in 
serum osteocalcin (marker of bone formation), urinary deoxypyridinoline (marker of bone resorption) and 
lumbar  and  femoral  BMD.  TCZ  treatment  prevented  bone  loss  with  a  significant  increase  in  serum 
osteocalcin levels, significant decrease in deoxypyridinoline levels and a smaller decrease in lumbar and 
femoral BMD compared with conventional DMARD treatment. 
These results provide evidence to support the hypothesis that inhibition of IL-6 by TCZ may have 
beneficial effects in slowing bone and joint destruction. 
Table 12  Change in Radiographic Scores (Full Analysis Set) 
Study  MRA213JP  was  a  Phase  III,  two-arm,  parallel-group,  double-blind,  multicentre  study  comparing 
TCZ  8  mg/kg  monotherapy  every  4  weeks  with  MTX  8  mg  weekly  in  RA  patients  with  an  inadequate 
response to MTX. The study was designed to assess safety and signs and symptoms of RA after 24 weeks 
of TCZ therapy. 
37/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
The pivotal clinical safety data supporting this application derives from five adequate and well-controlled, 
double blind, international, Phase III studies in adult patients with RA: WA17822, WA17823, WA17824, 
WA18062 and WA18063.  
These  5  studies  are  referred  to  as  the  core  studies  and  were  conducted  by  Roche.  The  core  studies  are 
completed,  with  the  exception  of  the  ongoing  2-year  study  WA17823,  for  which  only  pre-planned 
24-week  interim  data  are  included  in  this  submission.  Long  term  safety  information  from  2439  RA 
patients treated with open-label TCZ 8 mg/kg was also provided. The data are derived from 2 open-label 
ongoing extension studies (cut off date April 20th, 2007). The duration of the extension studies will be 5 
years. 
Additional  information  is  available  from  studies  conducted  by  the  applicant/sponsor’s  co-development 
partner,  Chugai  Pharmaceutical  in  healthy  volunteers,  PK  studies  in  RA  patients,  RA  patients  who  had 
inadequate response to DMARDs or MTX and 6 studies in Castleman’s Disease (121 pts.), 1 in Crohn’s 
(24 pts), 3 in multiple myeloma (37 pts.) and 1 in systemic lupus erythematosus (14 pts). 
  Patient exposure 
The  trials  represent  a  broad  range  of  both  of  RA  patients  and  other  auto-immune  conditions.  The  RA 
patients  include  those  with  early  disease  (<2  years),  MTX-naïve  patients,  partial  responders  to  standard 
non-biologic  DMARDs,  and  those  who  had  failed  treatment  with  anti-tumour  necrosis  factor  (TNF) 
agents. 
The core safety data set encompasses TCZ when used alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX) 
or  other  non-biological  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs  (DMARDs)  for  reducing  signs  and 
symptoms in adult patients with moderate to severe active RA. For the proposed posology (8 mg/kg every 
4 weeks) and indications data have been collected in 1870 patients for 6 months.  
Long-term safety analyses were based on all patients who completed the 24-week controlled studies and 
received TCZ in the open-label extension studies. A total of 2439 patients completed the core studies and 
entered the extension studies providing, 2188/2439 patients (89.7%) had been receiving TCZ treatment for 
at least 24 weeks, 1507 patients (61.8%) had been receiving TCZ treatment for at least 48 weeks and 574 
patients (24%) for at least 18 months. The mean and median extent of exposure to TCZ treatment from 
the first dose was 1.08 years.  
Taken  together,  this  represents  an  acceptable  safety  database,  both  in  number  of  patients  and  exposure 
time with TCZ. Upon request the applicant provided a tabular overview showing 6, 12, 18, month data for 
the  number  of  patients  belonging  to  the  proposed  target  population  at  the  proposed  dose  (8  mg/kg)  and 
proposed SPC indications, i.e. stratified by prior therapy and concomitant treatment, thereby giving exact 
numbers and duration for each proposed indication.  
38/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13: Exposure to Tocilizumab 8 mg/kg Every Four Weeks by Patient Population 
Moderate to Severe RA   
Monotherapy 
Combination therapy 
6M 
12M 
18M 
6M 
MTX 
12M 
18M 
6M 
DMARD 
12M 
Not previously treated with DMARDs1 
No. of Patients 
Patient years exposure 
Inadequate response to DMARDs  
No. of Patients2 
Patient years exposure 
Non Escape3 
Escape4 
No. of Patients 
Patient years exposure 
No. of Patients 
Patient years exposure 
Inadequate response to anti-TNF 
Non escape patients5 
No. of Patients 
Patient years exposure 
Escape patients6 
No. of Patients 
Patient years exposure 
132 
161.4 
182 
214.6 
94 
137.6 
124 
180.8 
52 
87.8 
66 
112.5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1295 
1672.8 
880 
1452.3 
646 
1180.9 
135 
180.3 
95 
160.6 
80 
142.2 
277 
356.5 
101 
124.1 
215 
313.1 
76 
105.9 
125 
207.9 
41 
65.7 
118 
110.4 
177 
172.1 
453 
661.8 
- 
- 
- 
48 
59.8 
96 
118.2 
382 
613.1 
- 
- 
- 
18M 
14 
21.9 
34 
50.3 
270 
481.5 
- 
- 
- 
1.  WA17824: patients were permitted to add DMARDs in the extension. Exposure on monotherapy is summarised separately from combination therapy 
2.  Patients from WA17824 who were not DMARD-naïve at baseline;  
3.  WA17822, WA17823 (6 month data only) and WA18063: patients who did not receive escape therapy during the studies. WA18063: a wide range of DMARDs 
were permitted as background therapy whereas other studies have MTX-only background medication Thus, exposure data from WA18063 separates MTX only 
(shown in MTX combination therapy columns) and other background therapies excluding MTX alone (shown in DMARD combination columns). Patients taking 
  2 background DMARDs including MTX are included in the combination column. Patients who switched DMARD treatments are counted in the original active 
treatment group actually received, i.e. if they were on MTX alone in the core study and increased to   2 DMARDs in the extension study, they are included in the 
MTX-only group. 
4.  Patients from WA17822 and WA17823 who received escape therapy In WA18063, no’s on escape not included as escape was increase in DMARDs, not switch to 
TCZ. 
5.  Patients from WA18062 who did not take escape therapy 
6.  Patients from WA18062 who received escape therapy 
39/55 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 4 month safety data update (4MSU)  
A  4  month  update  of  the  safety  information  was  provided  from  the  open  label  extension  studies 
WA18695 and WA18696, (cut-off date of October 1, 2007). 
An update was also provided on deaths and SAEs occurring from September 1, 2007 to January 31, 
2008, in the following: 
  The ongoing Japanese development programme (including non-RA indications); 
  Spontaneous reports from the treatment of multicentric Castleman’s Disease; 
  Compassionate use of TCZ in children with systemic onset inflammatory juvenile arthritis; 
  The ongoing study WA17823; and 
  The ongoing studies WA18695 and WA18696 (beyond October 1, 2007). 
Data was also included regarding the safety and efficacy of TCZ 8 mg/kg monotherapy from patients 
in study WA17824 who achieved a ≥ 50% decrease in the number of active swollen and tender joints 
(assessed from baseline) and opted to continue blinded treatment in the so-called “transition phase”. 
Further  information  was  submitted  from  the  immunogenicity  testing  program  including  data  from 
patients during the first 6 months of WA17823 and long-term follow-up of patients in WA18695 and 
WA18696. 
By October 1, 2007, an additional 123 patients had entered study WA18696, providing a total of 2562 
patients who received at least one dose of TCZ in the long-term studies. Of the additional 123 patients 
who were included in the 4MSU population, 93 were from the “transition phase” of WA17824. 
The data was compared to the existing long-term data from the studies WA18695 and WA18696 in 
2439  patients  and  AEs  of  special  interest  (infections,  infusion  reactions,  cardio-vascular  AEs, 
neoplasms,  gastrointestinal  (GI)  ulcerations  and  perforations,  skin  AEs,  blood  and  lymphatic  AEs, 
hepatic AEs, autoimmune events and demyelinating disorders, and fractures) were focused on.  
The 4 MSU population showed a ~ 3-5% increase in severe AEs, related AEs, serious AEs and AEs 
leading  to  dose  modification  compared  to  the  initial  application.  This  may  have  to  do  with  the 
relatively short time period addressed in this report (30th April 2007 – 1st Oct. 2007) or may indicate 
a trend. Any tendencies of increases would have to be captured by the RMP. In general the types of 
AEs observed in the 4MSU population were similar to those reported previously. The new events (3x 
cutaneous  lesions  of  discoid  lupus,  and  1x  arteritis,  hypertensive  encephalopathy,  ischemic  colitis, 
intestinal  obstruction,  hepatic  fibrosis,  pulmonary  hypertension,  glioblastoma  and  B  cell  lymphoma) 
should be kept in mind for the evaluations of the PSURs.  
In the long-term studies the development of HAHAs (2.3%) neutralizing antibodies (<1%) was low. 
The increased exposure to TCZ did not appear to result in an increase in the proportion of patients who 
developed  anti-TCZ  HAHA  and  had  associated  allergic  events.  However,  it  remains  uncertain  as  to 
how the methods and assay for determining HAHAs affected the outcome (see also RMP)  
  Adverse events  
Overall, adverse effects associated with the mechanism of IL-6R inhibition were observed in all TCZ 
treatment groups. The safety profile in the 5 core studies was fairly consistent (also between the 4 and 
8 mg/kg dosing regimens) and the following main safety signals emerged:  
Infections 
IL6 is a pleiotropic 24 kDa cytokine influencing antigen-specific immune responses and inflammatory 
reactions.  It  is  one  of  the  major  physiological  mediators  of  acute  phase  reaction.  As  pathogenic 
bacterial lipoproteins and lipopolysaccharides stimulate the production of IL-6 and sIL-6R, which then 
act on multiple cell types to activate the ‘innate’ immune response, tocilizumab would be expected to 
have  an  immunosuppressive  effect  on  the  development  of  effective  immunity  to  bacterial  and  viral 
infections.  
In the studies, the TCZ-combination therapy treated patients had higher rates of infection compared to 
the placebo patients, more patients with 2 or more infections, more severe infections and more serious 
infections (placebo: 1.5% vs TCZ 2.1%). Within the category of infections, respiratory infections, skin 
40/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections and GI were predominant. Systemic infections were rare (3 events of sepsis). The nature of 
the  serious  infections  in  2644  TCZ-treated  patients  in  the  controlled  trials  were  pneumonia  (0.5%), 
cellulitis  (0.3%),  and  herpes  zoster  (0.2%),  sepsis  (0.1%),  gastroenteritis  (0.1%).  Opportunistic 
infections were isolated cases (Pneumocystis carinii, Mycobacterium avium intracellulare), and in the 
ongoing  Japanese  studies  intracellular  or  opportunistic  infections  included  2  cases  of  tuberculosis 
(TB), one case of bronchopulmonary aspergillosis and one case of candida osteomyelitis. 
A higher incidence of infections was observed in patients who were previously exposed to anti-TNF 
medications in all treatment groups in study WA18062 compared with patients in the other studies.  
Cellulitis was questionably observed more frequently in the TCZ compared to the control groups and 
the  applicant  had  been  requested  to  clarify  this  issue.  Although  there  is  an  overlap  of  the  95%  CI 
between the placebo and bapineuzumab groups for cellulitis, it cannot thus necessarily be attributed to 
TCZ,  the  sponsor  has  nevertheless  included  cellulitis  in  the  list  of  adverse  reactions  in  the  SPC,  in 
recognition of the increased risk of infections in patients treated with TCZ. 
As IL-6 is known to differentiate B cells into antibody-producing plasma cells the concern was raised 
that by blocking IL-6, one may expect a decrease also in B cell functions and hence IgG levels and 
antigen-specific antibodies (such as anti-pneumococcal-antibody titres/anti-tetanus titres) The sponsor 
committed to continue monitoring the levels of immunoglobulins in the ongoing open label extension 
studies  and  to  conducting  an  additional  vaccination  study  as  a  part  of  ongoing  open-label long-term 
extension study. 
The  timely  detection  of  serious  infection  may  be  difficult  due  to  the  suppression  of  the  acute  phase 
reaction (CRP, neutrophils). This aspect has been included in the SPC. 
Gastrointestinal disorders  
In  the  TCZ  preclinical  programme,  no  signals  of  GI  toxicity  were  observed.  However,  in  healthy 
volunteers, events of diarrhoea, mouth ulceration, vomiting, abdominal pain, gingival pain, oral pain 
and flatulence were reported. Although the wide use of corticosteroids and NSAIDs in patients with 
RA  contributes  to  these  side-effects,  gastric  disorders  (mainly  gastritis  and  upper  GI  ulcers)  were 
observed more frequently with TCZ combination treatment compared with the control. In one study 
(17824) related GI AEs in the monotherapy TCZ 8 mg/kg group(~20%) were the same as the MTX 
monotherapy  group,  but  practically  double  that  of  the  combination  therapy  TCZ  +  MTX  (9%)  and 
quadruple that of MTX + placebo in another study (17823; 5%). The discrepancies between the studies 
were  thought  to  be  due  to  the  different  focusing  of  the  patient  in  the  Informed  Consent  Form.  In  5 
cases  the  increased  inflammation  led  to  perforations  and  in  2  cases  to  death.  The  rate  of  total  GI 
perforations is 0.184 /100 pt-years which is slightly higher than that reported in the literature for RA 
patients.  Gastritis,  mouth  ulceration,  diverticulitis  and  its  complications  (peritonitis,  perforation, 
fistulae and abscess) are listed as adverse reactions in the SPC.  
Infusion reactions 
Infusion reactions occurred mainly during the first or second infusion. In the monotherapy groups, 6% 
in  the  TCZ  8  mg/kg  group  and  2%  in  the  MTX  group  had  infusion  reactions.  In  the  combination 
therapy groups ~5% in the TCZ groups and 3% in the placebo groups had infusion reactions. In the 
long term safety population, these defined events were reported by 6.5% of patients. Infusion reactions 
comprised  mostly  hypertension,  rash  and  pruritus.  Overall,  12  patients  experienced  medically 
significant hypersensitivity reactions (six anaphylactic reactions).  
Skin disorders  
There  was  no  evidence  of  skin  toxicity  with  TCZ  from  preclinical  data.  Single  events  of  rash  were 
reported  in  studies  in  healthy  volunteers.  Therefore  the  clinical  data  with  increased  skin  and 
subcutaneous tissue disorders raise a new concern. More skin disorders (rash, dermatitis and pruritus, 
skin ulcers) occurred in the TCZ groups. No clear connection could be seen in the patients who had 
higher eosinophils. Skin related AEs occurred independently of dose level (for skin cancer, see next 
paragraph on malignancies).  
41/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Malignancies  
Malignancies are increased in patients with RA and additionally with some treatments commonly used 
in  RA  (MTX  and  DMARDs).  The  risk  appears  to  be  particularly  higher  for  lymphoproliferative 
malignancies,  such  as  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  and  multiple  myeloma,  in  RA  patients  compared 
with the general population. 
IL-6  is  recognized  as  a  potent  growth  factor  in  the  pathogenesis  of  some  forms  of  cancers;  in  non-
clinical  TCZ  pharmacology  studies  anti-proliferative  effects  were  observed.  However,  IL-6  also  is 
claimed to have a role as a therapeutic anti-tumour agent. Thus, it remains to be seen what long-term 
effects TCZ will have in tumorigenesis.  
Overall  the  malignancies  did  not  seem  to  be  increased  compared  to  the  placebo  groups.  For  solid 
cancers  it  was  slightly  lower  than  the  MTX  group.  Non-melanoma  skin  cancers  in  the  TCZ  groups 
were 0.4/100pt-y – 0.71/100 pt-y (placebo 0.6/100 pt-y). In the overall clinical trials (including long-
term  data)  the  rate  of  malignancies  is  1.27/100  pt-y,  this  may  indicate  an  increase.  The  4/5  thyroid 
neoplasms were shown to be benign in character (one patient was lost to follow-up).  
The SPC text on malignancies refers to the pre-clinical data and now includes a section on the limited 
clinical data to date. Long-term safety evaluations are ongoing. 
Cardio/vascular disorders  
In the monotherapy groups, 2 patients (0.7%) in the TCZ 8 mg/kg group had coronary events and none 
were  reported  in  the  MTX  group,  in  the  combination  therapy  TCZ  and  placebo  group  rates  were 
similar (0.6% and 0.5%). In the long-term safety population, 14 patients had serious coronary ischemic 
events. The rate of myocardial infarction in patients treated with TCZ during the Phase III studies was 
0.35 per 100 patient years of exposure. The observed rate of myocardial infarction with TCZ is within 
the rates reported in literature for myocardial infarction in patients with RA (0.4 – 0.7/100 pt-years). 
Premature  cardiovascular  disease  is  a  feature  of  extra-articular  RA,  leading  to  an  increased  risk  for 
myocardial  infarctions,  heart  failure  and  cerebrovascular  disease.  In  the  studies,  vascular  disorders 
(mainly  hypertension)  occurred  with  up  to  double  the  frequency  in  the  TCZ  group  vs  the  control 
groups. In addition¸ lipid parameters are increased in all TCZ groups, in some studies there is also an 
increase in atherogenic indices. Viewed long-term, the RA population may thus be at an increased risk 
for ischemic events (in addition to the underlying risk). As the 6 month data is relatively short, it is 
momentarily difficult to come to a clear conclusion with regard to ischemic events. Post-authorisation 
the  applicant  will  be  entering  the  treated  patients  into  registries  where  data  on  this  aspect  will  be 
obtainable. The sponsor commits to track ischaemic events in registry studies and will submit annual 
reports  to  the  EMEA.  The  role  of  TCZ  as  a  possible  trigger  to  either  a  pre-existing  cardiac/ 
cerebrovascular history or to a medication known to increase the risk of vascular events is difficult to 
assess. In the updated Risk Management Plan the sponsor has initiated a dedicated study to assess the 
effect of TCZ on surrogate markers of atherosclerosis. 
Nervous system and psychiatric disorders  
Nervous  system  disorders  were  experienced  more  frequently  in  the  TCZ  groups  compared  to  the 
control  groups.  The  most  common  events  were  headache  and  dizziness.  The  rate  of  cerebrovascular 
accident  events  in  patients  treated  with  TCZ  during  the  Phase  III  studies  was  0.26  per  100  patient 
years  of  exposure.  This  is  slightly  lower  than  rates  reported  in  the  literature  for  the  RA  adult 
population (~0.5 /100 pt-years). 
Two events suggestive of central demyelination reported in the original submission were enrolled in 
clinical  trials  WA17823  and  WA18696  (extension  of  WA18062).  After  completion  of  the  original 
application dossier, the sponsor received a report of a case of leukoencephalopathy (patient 114002) in 
open-label, long-term extension study MRA215JP in RA in Japan. The extensive work-up of the case 
showed  that  a  drug  related  encephalopathy  could  not  be  ruled  out  by  exclusion.  However,  the  PCR 
testing  for  the  JC  virus  in  the  spinal  fluid  was  negative  on  three  occasions,  thereby  making  the 
possibility of PML very unlikely. 
42/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further  investigation  revealed  three  neurological  events  of  interest:  cranial  neuropathy,  abnormal 
nuclear  magnetic  resonance  imaging  and  peripheral  demyelination.  The  applicant  has  modified  the 
RMP and the SPC to incorporate this potential adverse event  
Although  the  monotherapy  TCZ  group  shows  slightly  higher  percentages  of  patients  with  insomnia, 
anxiety  and  depression,  the  overall  TCZ  group  does  not  show  an  increase  compared  to  the  placebo 
DMARD group, thus an inclusion in the SPC is not necessarily warranted. 
Eye disorders 
Eye disorders were reported more frequently in the TCZ groups; the difference being mainly due to 
conjunctivitis  (2.75  in  the  all  TCZ  group  vs.  1.77  in  DMARD+  placebo/r  100 patient-years).  
However, the confidence intervals for all TCZ groups overlapped with the placebo + DMARD group, 
showing  that  there  were  no  significant  differences  between  TCZ  and  control.  However,  recognizing 
the increased risk of infections in patients treated with TCZ, conjunctivitis has been included in the list 
of adverse reactions terms in the SPC. 
Swelling / edema 
The  diverse  nature  of  oedema  makes  it  difficult  to  assess.  Although  the  TCZ  8  mg/kg  +  DMARD 
group  was  higher  compared  to  placebo  +  DMARD  (5.84  vs.  3.75,  respectively),  the  overlapping 
confidence intervals do not allow to draw any precise conclusion.  
The  6-month  data  for  angioedema  revealed  17/2644  (0.64%)  cases  in  the  TCZ  group  and  3/1170 
(0.25%) in the placebo group. In the TCZ 8mg/kg groups (SPC recommended dose), there are 16/1870 
(0.85%)  and  in  the  all-exposure  TCZ  population  there  are  33/3778  (0.87%)  cases  of  angioedema, 
indicating  that  there  may  be  a  trend.  The  sponsor  has  proposed  to  include  the  evaluation  of  risk  of 
angioedema  as  part  of  the  evaluation  of  serious  hypersensitivity  reactions.  This  will  encompass 
reporting of angioedema events by means of guided questionnaires (see RMP; post-marketing reports) 
and detailed evaluation of angioedema events in the ongoing clinical trials  
Other biological agents and risks 
Clinical experience both in RA and a  number of other autoimmune diseases  has been gathered with 
other biological  medicinal agents that  block TNF activity. The main safety concerns include serious 
infections  (TB),  infusion-related  reactions,  antibody  development,  worsening  of  cardiac  disorders, 
neurological  disorders,  blood  disorders,  and  possible  increased  risk  of  malignancies.  These  safety 
concerns remain after a patient has been switched to TCZ combination therapy.  
Bone function  
IL-6 stimulates osteoclast activity and bone resorption. By inhibiting this activity through exposure to 
TCZ (preclinical data) normal bone function may possibly be maintained and thus not deemed to be a 
risk factor. Nevertheless, fractures were addressed separately in the studies. In addition, approximately 
50% of patients with fractures were taking oral steroids at baseline and approximately 60% of them 
had  a  history  of  osteopenia/osteoporosis  and  the  majority  of  those  patients  with  a  history  were  on 
bisphosphonates. 
Excipient:sucrose 
Sucrose  has  been  thought  to  cause  or  enhance  the  development  of  acute  renal  failure  (ARF)  when 
administered in larger amounts e.g. in some sucrose-containing intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) 
esp.  in  the  presence  of  pre-existing  renal  insufficiency,  creatinine  >  1.5  mg/dl  and  concomitant 
nephrotoxic drugs. The content of sucrose in the TCZ formulation is 50 mg/ml (or 2.5 mg sucrose/1 
mg TCZ). Therefore administration of TCZ 8 mg/kg every 4 weeks corresponds to a sucrose uptake of 
0.02  g/kg  every  4  weeks.  For  sucrose-containing  IVIGs  the  sucrose  load  would  be  considerably 
higher, namely ~0.35 – 1.67 g/kg. Nevertheless it is not known precisely in patients with pre-existing 
renal  conditions  what  the  minimal  amount  of  sucrose  is  that  might  trigger  further  damage.  In  older 
preclinical  literature  a  single  0.05  mg  sucrose  infusion  was  sufficient  to  cause  renal  damage  with 
tubular  swelling  in  healthy  dogs.  One  71  year-old  patient  died  (in  study  WA18063)  of 
cardiopulmonary arrest secondary to end stage renal failure after having elevated renal function tests 
throughout  the  study  (9  TCZ  infusions).  He  was  diagnosed  with  an  obstructive  uropathy  with 
43/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
secondary renal insufficiency. The death was considered by the investigator to be unrelated to study 
drug. However, the SPC should reflect that additional caution should be exercised in patients with pre-
existing renal conditions  
  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The general pattern of serious adverse events was similar in nature to the adverse events listed above. 
The most common serious adverse events in all treatment groups were infections. Serious infections 
were  reported  with  a  higher  frequency  in  all  TCZ  8  mg/kg  groups  compared  with  their  respective 
controls, and compared with the TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX arm. Few infections led to withdrawal (< 1%), 
and similar proportions of patients withdrew because of infections in each TCZ treatment group. Most 
patients with serious infection temporarily interrupted or reduced dosing.  
By the April 20th, 2007 cut-off date, a total of 26 deaths were reported in all studies conducted in the 
RA indication, which enrolled 6315 patients. Twenty-one of these deaths were reported in the Roche 
clinical trial programme, which had 4098 patients in the safety population In the 6 month controlled 
clinical studies, the rate of deaths was similar in TCZ treated patients compared with control groups 
(0.41 per 100 patient years exposure in the pooled TCZ groups vs 0.8 per 100 patient years exposure 
in the placebo + DMARD group and 0.75 per 100 patient years exposure in the MTX group. The rate 
of deaths did not increase in long term extension studies (0.42 per 100 patient years exposure). 
In the core 24-week studies 5 deaths occurred in patients receiving treatment with the TCZ 8 mg/kg 
dose, two of these (2/1582 [0.13%]) occurred in patients enrolled in trials comparing the 8 mg/kg and 
4 mg/kg dose regimens and three occurred in trials evaluating the 8 mg/kg dose alone. Causes of death 
in the TCZ patients were myocardial ischemia, cardiopulmonary arrest, stroke, postoperative infection, 
GI haemorrhage. Five deaths occurred in the control groups during the 6-month double-blind period 
due to pneumonia, Wegener’s granulomatosis, coronary artery thrombosis and intestinal obstruction in 
the placebo + DMARD group and due to lung cancer in the MTX group. 
An  additional  11  patients  died  during  treatment  in  the  long-term  safety  analysis,  5  of  them  due  to 
infections.  In  the  other  patients  the  causes  of  death  were  myocardial  infarction  (2  patients),  cancer, 
suicide, progressive idiopathic neuropathy (one patient each), and in one patient the cause of death is 
unknown.  
Two  additional  patient  deaths  occurred  following  the  cut-off  date  for  reporting  data  in  the  clinical 
safety  summary  (1x  acute  myocardial  infarction  8  months  after  completion  of  the  core  study 
(WA17822)  while  awaiting  transition  to  the  long-term  extension  study;  1x  cardiopulmonary  arrest 
during the long-term extension study) 
  Laboratory findings 
Neutrophils 
Decreases  in  neutrophil  counts  without  associated  decreases  in  other  haematology  laboratory 
parameters  have  been  reported  in  animal  studies.  This  was  seen  in  the  clinical  studies  in  healthy 
volunteers and in patients with RA and was felt to constitute a pharmacodynamic effect. 
From  the  submitted  data,  decreases  in  neutrophil  counts  were  recorded  more  frequently  in  the  TCZ 
groups mainly with shifts in CTC grade from normal to -1. These were observed after the first dose of 
treatment  and  were  sustained  throughout  the  dosing  interval.  There  was  little  to  no  clear  temporal 
association  between  low  neutrophil  counts  and  the  occurrence  of  infections.  In  patients  with 
infections, approximately one-third of infection AEs were associated with an increase of neutrophils, 
one-third with a decrease, and approximately one-third did not change. The pattern of these changes 
was  similar  in  both  treatment  groups.  Severe  decreases  in  neutrophil  count  to  <  0.5  x  109/L  were 
infrequent  (8  patients  in  the  combination  therapy  studies  and  4  patients  in  the  long-term  safety 
analysis) and led to discontinuation of TCZ after which the neutrophil counts returned to pre-treatment 
values. Neutropenia as an AE was not reported in the placebo or MTX groups, but in up to 1.4% in the 
44/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TCZ groups. There also seems to be an increased risk of neutropenia in patients who have previously 
been treated with a TNF antagonist. This has been added to the SPC. 
Platelets  
A decrease in the formerly slightly elevated platelet count to within the normal range was observed in 
all the TCZ groups with only isolated incidences of thrombocytopenia (as an AE it occurred in 0.1- 
0.3%  in  the  6  month  data).  The  SPC  has  been  revised  to  include  wording  relating  to  monitoring  of 
platelets, as well as reference to the occurrence of rare cases of grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations  
As there was no evidence of increases of hepatic transaminases in the pre-clinical toxicology studies 
or  in  the  healthy  volunteers,  the  clinical  data  raise  a  new  concern.  In  addition,  in  vitro  studies 
conducted with TCZ on human hepatoma cell lines have however not been able to clarify this clinical 
finding. 
The  applicant  suggested  that  these  effects  in  humans  are  related  to  the  combined  effects  of 
concomitant  medications  (MTX,  leflunomide,  NSAIDs),  as  well  as  concomitant  conditions  (obesity, 
diabetes,  metabolic syndrome) and thus  may influence liver function in patients with RA. However, 
the exact cause is unclear and not fully elucidated.  
In  the  studies  elevations  in  liver  function  tests  were  more  frequent  in  the  TCZ  groups  compared  to 
placebo  groups,  but  slightly  less  frequent  in  the  monotherapy  compared  to  MTX.    The  applicant 
stresses  that  these  elevations  were  single  events;  however,  this  could  not  be  extracted  from  the  data 
which  showed  prevailing  percentages  of  patients  with  increases  through  Week  24.  In  general  these 
elevations  were  managed  by  simple  or  no  intervention.  ALT  +  AST  elevations  were  not  associated 
with  simultaneous  elevations  of  bilirubin.  However,  bilirubin  alone  was  also  more  frequently 
increased  in  TCZ  patients  compared  to  placebo  patients.  Patients  were  required  to  discontinue  PP 
when  elevations  reached  >  5  ULN.  In  some  cases  there  was  evidence  of  steatosis.  Only  one  biopsy 
was performed showing a fatty liver.  
The  aspect  of  increases  of  hepatic  enzymes  is  addressed  in  the  SPC,  as  are  the  necessary  dose 
adjustments in case of laboratory abnormalities. 
Lipid parameters  
IL6  has  also  been  implicated  in  regulating  adipose  mass.  However,  no  effect  of  TCZ  on  lipid 
parameters was seen healthy volunteers or in animal studies. 
Patients  with  chronic  inflammatory  conditions,  such  as  active  RA,  have  lower  lipid  levels  in 
comparison with the general population and an increase in lipid parameters has been associated with 
other  biological  agents  such  as  anti-TNFs.  An  increase  in  lipids  by  TCZ  may  thus  reflect  the 
pharmacodynamic effect of TCZ on suppression of inflammation in patients with RA. However, such 
increases  could  pose  a  long-term  risk  for  the  development  of  atherosclerosis  and  subsequently  of 
cardiovascular/cerebrovascular incidents.  
Elevations  in  lipid  parameters  and  atherogenic  indices  were  more  frequent  in  patients  on  TCZ 
compared to control groups. These elevations occurred early after initiation of treatment and stabilized 
on continuation. They were associated  with decreases in CRP  and other acute  phase proteins. There 
did not seem to be a direct association with the occurrence of cardiovascular events, however, 6 month 
data would not really suffice to assess this risk. In addition, under TCZ treatment hypertension and in 
some  cases  cardiac  events  were  increased.  Thus,  the  long-term  effect  of  increased  lipids  and 
atherogenic  indices  in  this  chronically  ill  patient  population  remains  to  be  seen.  Elevations  in  total 
cholesterol generally responded to treatment with lipid-lowering agents. This aspect is addressed in the 
SPC. 
Immunogenicity HAHAs) 
Tocilizumab  was  produced  by  selecting  a  mouse  anti-human  IL-6R  monoclonal  antibody  with  the 
most  potent  inhibitory  activity  in  an  in  vivo  nude  mouse  myeloma  cell  xenograft  system. 
45/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Humanization  was  performed  by  grafting  the  Complementarity  determining  region  (CDR)  of  the 
mouse anti-human IL-6R monoclonal antibody onto a human IgG1 antibody framework, followed by 
transfection of both light and heavy chain genes into CHO cells to produce a humanized antibody.  
A  total  of  2876  patients  have  been  tested  for  anti-tocilizumab  antibodies  in  the  controlled  clinical 
trials.  Forty-six  patients  (1.6%)  developed  positive  anti-tocilizumab  antibodies,  of  whom  5  had  an 
associated medically significant hypersensitivity reaction leading to withdrawal. In 30 patients (1.1%) 
who developed neutralizing antibodies, no apparent correlation to clinical response was observed. 
  Safety in special populations 
Elderly: The only difference, i.e. higher frequency of serious infections in older patients does not seem 
to be related directly to the TCZ treatment and may rather due to the disease- (RA) and age-related co-
morbidities. 
  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
CYP-450 
IL-6  has  been  shown  to  cause  depression  of  major  P-450  (CYP)-associated  drug  metabolism  in 
humans  during  inflammation,  infection  and  possibly  in  other  disease  indications  including  cancer. 
Thus, the possibility cannot be ruled out that treatment with tocilizumab may promote the metabolism 
of CYP-metabolized drugs. This is reflected in the SPC. 
  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The withdrawal of patients due to safety reasons occurred infrequently and was more prominent in the 
combination  therapy  (TCZ  8  mg/kg  +  DMARD)  group.  The  most  common  types  of  AEs  leading  to 
discontinuation were abnormalities of liver function tests and infections. There was no indication that 
any particular types of events within any of the MedDRA SOCs led to an increase in withdrawals. 
  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing experience has been available at time of Marketing Authorisation.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
46/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern 
Identified risks 
Serious infections 
Complications of 
diverticulitis 
Serious hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Potential risks 
Neutropenia 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities (Routine and 
Additional) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Special CRF for events of 
special interest: 
implemented in clinical 
trials as of Q4 2007/Guided 
Questionnaire (post-
marketing data) 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Epidemiology data: 
o  US claims database 
o  EU registries (BSRBR, 
ARTIS, RABBIT) 
o  US registry (NDB) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Guided Questionnaire 
(post-marketing data) 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Epidemiology data: 
  US claims database   
  EU registries (BSRBR, 
ARTIS, RABBIT) 
  US registry (NDB) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Guided Questionnaire 
(post-marketing data) 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Epidemiology data: 
  US claims database   
  EU registries (BSRBR, 
ARTIS, RABBIT) 
  US registry (NDB) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities (Routine and Additional) 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling 
  SmPC Section 4.3. 
Contraindications  
  SmPC Section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use/ 
Infections  
  SmPC Section 4.8. Undesirable 
effects 
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Sections 2 and 4.  
Additional risk minimization: 
  Educational programme 
  Patient Alert Card 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC Section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for 
use 
  SmPC Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects  
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Sections 2 and 4.  
Additional risk minimization: 
  Educational programme 
  Patient Alert Card 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC Section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use 
  SmPC Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects  
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Sections 2 and 4.  
Additional risk minimization: 
  Educational programme 
  Study to address 
mechanism of neutrophil 
reduction 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.2. Posology and 
47/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopenia 
Elevated hepatic 
transaminases 
Immunogenicity 
Elevated lipids 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Guided Questionnaire for 
events of special interest 
will collect neutrophil data 
in cases of serious infection 
method of administration  
  SmPC section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use 
  SmPC Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects/Laboratory evaluations 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
programme  
Section 4.  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Guided Questionnaire 
(post-marketing data) to 
collect information on 
serious hepatic events 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
  Nature and frequency of 
hepatic events representing 
potential clinical 
manifestations of increased 
transaminase levels will be 
monitored in the registry 
studies:  
o  US claims database  
o  EU registries 
(BSRBR, ARTIS, 
RABBIT) 
o  US registry (NDB) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
  See also Serious Infections above 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.2. Posology and 
method of administration  
  SmPC section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use 
  SmPC Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects/Laboratory evaluations 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.2. Posology and 
method of administration  
  SmPC section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use  
  SmPC section 4.8. Undesirable 
effects/Laboratory evaluations  
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Sections 2 and 4.  
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
SmPC section 4.8. Undesirable 
effects/Immunogenicity 
  Study WA19923 evaluating 
the effects of IL-6 receptor 
blockade with tocilizumab 
(TCZ) on lipids, arterial 
stiffness, and markers of 
atherogenic risk in patients 
with moderate to severe 
active RA 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.2. Posology and 
method of administration  
  SmPC section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use  
  SmPC section 4.8. Undesirable 
effects/Laboratory evaluations 
48/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Sections 2 and 4.  
programme  
  Guided Questionnaires on 
myocardial infarction/acute 
coronary syndrome, stroke. 
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
  Rate of clinical events 
potentially related to 
atherogenesis (e.g. angina, 
myocardial infarction, 
cerebrovascular accident) as 
a potential clinical 
manifestation of increased 
lipid levels will be 
monitored in the registry 
studies. The nature and rate 
of such events will be 
monitored and evaluated on 
the basis of reports to the: 
o  Sponsor’s 
pharmacovigilance 
database 
o  US claims database   
o  EU registries (BSRBR, 
ARTIS, RABBIT) 
o  US registry (NDB) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Guided Questionnaire 
(post-marketing data) 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Epidemiology data: 
  US claims database   
  EU registries (BSRBR, 
ARTIS, RABBIT) 
  US registry (NDB) 
Malignancies 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use  
  SmPC section 4.8. Undesirable 
effects  
49/55 
 
 
 
 
Demyelinating disorders 
CYP450 enzyme 
normalization 
Missing information 
Elderly patients 
Paediatric patients 
Effects during pregnancy 
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
  Guided Questionnaire (post-
marketing data) 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Epidemiology data: 
  US claims database   
  EU registries (BSRBR, 
ARTIS, RABBIT) 
  US registry (NDB) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Routine risk minimization by means of 
labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use  
Routine risk minimization by means of 
labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.5. Interaction with 
other medicinal products and other 
forms of interaction 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling 
programme  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board  
Epidemiology data: 
  US claims database   
  EU registries (BSRBR, 
ARTIS, RABBIT) 
  US registry (NDB) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
  Off-label use managed 
under compassionate use 
programme 
Additional studies on efficacy 
and safety in paediatric patients: 
  Study WA18221 (SJIA) 
  Study WA19977(PJIA) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Ongoing clinical trial 
programme 
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
  Registry studies with OTIS  
  Queries to ENTIS 
  Pregnancy data from 
BSRBR and RABBIT 
  SmPC section 4.2. Special 
populations/ Elderly Patients 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC Section 4.2. Special 
Populations/ Paediatric Patients 
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Section 2.  
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.6. Pregnancy and 
lactation/Pregnancy 
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Section 2.  
50/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.2. Special 
populations/Hepatic Impairment  
  SmPC section 5.2. 
Pharmacokinetic properties/ 
Pharmacokinetics in Special 
Populations 
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Section 2.  
Renal impairment 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling 
  SmPC section 4.2. Special 
populations/Renal Impairment 
Combination with 
biologics 
Vaccinations 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
Epidemiology data: 
  US claims database  
  EU registries (BSRBR, 
ARTIS, RABBIT) 
  US registry (NDB)  
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
  Regular review by Roche 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
Board 
  Substudy to be performed 
  SmPC section 5.2. 
Pharmacokinetic properties/ 
Pharmacokinetics in Special 
Populations/Renal Impairment 
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Section 2.  
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use  
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Section 2.  
Routine risk minimization by means 
of labelling: 
  SmPC section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for use 
/Vaccinations 
  Patient Information Leaflet, 
Section 2.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: see as detailed in section 2.3 of this CHMP Assessment Report.  
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance  are  adequately 
described,  controlled  and  validated.  The  drug  substance  is  well  characterised  with  regard  to  its 
physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics,  using  state-of  the-art  methods,  and  appropriate 
specifications are set. The manufacturing process of the drug product has been satisfactorily described 
and  validated.  The  quality  of  the  drug  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test  methods  and 
specifications. The viral safety and the safety concerning other adventitious agents including TSE have 
been  sufficiently  assured.  Except  for  a  number  of  quality  points,  which  will  be  addressed  as  part  of 
post-approval follow-up measures, the overall Quality of RoActemra is considered acceptable. 
51/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Non-clinical  data  reveal  no  special  hazard  for  humans  based  on  conventional  studies  of  safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
A study in animals has shown an increased risk of spontaneous abortion/embryo-foetal death at a high 
dose. The potential risk for humans is unknown.  Adequate labelling is provided in section 4.6 and 5.3 
of SPC. 
Efficacy 
Efficacy has been shown in patients with moderate to severe RA that have an inadequate response to 
one  or  more  DMARDs  including  MTX,  as  well  as  patients  that  have  an  inadequate  response  or  are 
intolerant to anti-TNF medications. However, although superiority to MTX has been shown in patients 
that were off MTX at the time of inclusion in the study the supplied data are not considered sufficient 
to justify a “first line” indication. This is related to the fact that  MTX first line therapy is generally 
considered effective for the treatment of signs and symptoms as well as inhibition of progression of 
structural  damage,  while  there  are  no  data  for  tocilizumab  showing  inhibition  of  progression  of 
structural damage in a “first line” setting. 
For  the  justification  of  a  “second  line”  indication  after  failure  of  DMARD  and/or  anti-TNF  the 
applicant has provided a meta-analysis of efficacy and safety that compares anti-TNF medications to 
tocilizumab  in  patients  that  had  failed  on  conventional  DMARD.  This  analysis  shows  that  ACR20 
appears  to  be  comparable,  and  ACR50  and  ACR70  appear  to  be  more  likely  with  tocilizumab  than 
anti-TNF  medications  when  using  a  24  week  endpoint.  This  data  is  considered  supportive  for  the 
“second line” indication. 
Evaluation of the inhibition of progression of structural damage was a pre-defined endpoint in study 
WA17823.  The  two  co-primary  12  month  endpoints  included  prevention  of  progression  of  joint 
damage and improvement in physical function of TCZ therapy in combination with MTX versus MTX 
alone (with confirmation at 24 months). The study met its two primary endpoints at week 52. 
The doses of 4 mg/kg and 8 mg/kg were tested in the majority of studies and both show comparable 
efficacy. However, patients dosed with 8 mg/kg had consistently higher response rates in the pivotal 
trials.  These  clinical  efficacy  data  are  supported  by  pharmacodynamic  investigations  relating  to 
changes  in  CRP  and  haemoglobin  giving  further  evidence  for  choosing  the  8 mg/kg  dose.  From  the 
performed  population  PK  no  dose  adjustments  appear  necessary  for  age,  gender,  race  or  renal 
impairment.  As  no  hepatic  metabolism  was  noted  no  impact  of  hepatic  impairment  on  PK  is 
anticipated, although not formally studied. 
The design of the studies and the statistical analysis are considered adequate to determine safety and 
efficacy  in  a  population  with  moderate  to  severe  RA.  Inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  of  the  pivotal 
studies,  the  design  of  the  studies  as  well  as  the  obtained  baseline  characteristics  are  considered 
adequate to obtain external validity. 
Safety 
The  main  risks  with  tocilizumab  therapy  are  infections,  GI  disorders,  infusion  reactions,  skin 
disorders,  neutropenia,  elevation  in  hepatic  enzymes  and  lipid  parameters.  Certain  AE  cannot  be 
reliably evaluated due to the relative scarcity of data, this relates to e.g. cardiovascular disorders and 
malignancies. 
Serious infections were more common under the study drug (placebo: 1.5% vs TCZ 2.1%). Within the 
category  of  infections,  respiratory  infections,  skin  infections  and  GI  were  predominant.  Systemic 
infections  were  rare  (3  events  of  sepsis)  and  only  isolated  cases  of  opportunistic  infections  were 
observed.  A  higher  infection  rate  was  observed  in  patients  that  had  previously  received  anti-TNF 
medication. 
52/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastric  disorders  (mainly  gastritis  and  upper  GI  ulcers)  were  observed  more  frequently  with  TCZ 
combination  treatment  compared  with  the  control.  In  5  cases,  the  increased  inflammation  led  to 
perforations and in 2 cases to death. The rate of total GI perforations is 0.184 /100 pt-years which is 
slightly higher than that reported in the literature for RA patients. 
Infusion reactions occurred mainly during the first or second infusion. In the monotherapy groups, 6% 
in  the  TCZ  8  mg/kg  group  and  2%  in  the  MTX  group  had  infusion  reactions.  In  the  combination 
therapy groups ~5% in the TCZ groups and 3% in the placebo groups had infusion reactions. In the 
long term safety population, these defined events were reported by 6.5% of patients. Infusion reactions 
comprised  mostly  hypertension,  rash  and  pruritus.  Overall,  12  patients  experienced  medically 
significant  hypersensitivity  reactions  (six  anaphylactic  reactions).  Although  angioedema  was  seen 
more frequently TCZ population 0.87%) than in the placebo groups (0.25%) this was not statistically 
significant, but warrants further focused investigation in the patients’ registries post-authorisation. 
Malignancies are increased in patients with RA and additionally with some treatments commonly used 
in  RA  (MTX  and  DMARDs).  In  the  overall  clinical  trials  (including  long-term  data)  the  rate  of 
malignancies  is  1.27/100  pt-y,  it  is  currently  unclear  whether  this  could  present  an  increase  and  the 
SPC has been worded accordingly. The 4/5 thyroid neoplasms were shown to be benign in character 
(one patient was lost to follow-up).  
Premature  cardiovascular  disease  is  a  feature  of  extra-articular  RA,  leading  to  an  increased  risk  for 
myocardial  infarctions,  heart  failure  and  cerebrovascular  disease.  In  the  studies  vascular  disorders 
(mainly  hypertension)  occurred  with  up  to  double  the  frequency  in  the  TCZ  group  vs  the  control 
groups. In addition¸ lipid parameters are increased in all TCZ groups, in some studies there is also an 
increase in atherogenic indices. Viewed long-term the RA population may thus be at an increased risk 
for ischemic events (in addition to the underlying risk). As the 6 month data is relatively short, it is 
momentarily difficult to come to a clear conclusion with regard to ischemic events or the possibility of 
TCZ triggering such events. 
Decreases in neutrophil counts were recorded more frequently in the TCZ groups mainly with shifts in 
CTC grade from normal to -1. These were observed after the first dose of treatment and were sustained 
throughout  the  dosing  interval.  There  was  little  to  no  clear  temporal  association  between  low 
neutrophil  counts  and  the  occurrence  of  infections.  Severe  decreases  in  neutrophil  count  to  <  0.5  x 
109/L were infrequent (8 patients in the combination therapy studies and 4 patients in the long-term 
safety analysis) and led to discontinuation of TCZ after which the neutrophil counts returned to pre-
treatment values. Neutropenia as an AE was not reported in the placebo or MTX groups, but in up to 
1.4% in the TCZ groups. There also seems to be an increased risk of neutropenia in patients who have 
previously been treated with a TNF antagonist. 
To date the potential for central demyelination with TCZ is unknown. Initially 2 cases were described 
as optic neuritis and chronic brain ischemia most likely secondary to polycythemia. After completion 
of  the  original  filing  dossier,  there  was  one  report  of  drug-induced  leukoencephalopathy  (possibly 
drug-related),  one  cranial  neuropathy,  one  abnormal  nuclear  magnetic  resonance  imaging  and  one 
peripheral demyelination.  
In  the  studies  elevations  in  liver  function  tests  were  more  frequent  in  the  TCZ  groups  compared  to 
placebo  groups  but  slightly  less  frequent  in  the  monotherapy  compared  to  MTX.  In  general  these 
elevations  were  managed  by  simple  or  no  intervention.  ALT  +  AST  elevations  were  not  associated 
with simultaneous elevations of bilirubin. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
  User consultation 
The user testing report should be further developed to be in line with the stated FUM.  
53/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits: 
The pivotal clinical studies have demonstrated a relevant benefit for patients with moderate to severe 
active RA that have failed on MTX or other DMARDs or anti-TNF drugs. Although two doses were 
tested in the clinical trials the higher dose of 8 mg/kg shows consistently better efficacy. This benefit 
is  demonstrated  by  ACR20,  ACR50  and  ACR70  responses  that  are  clinically  relevant,  reproducible 
and  show  consistent  effects  across  all  clinical  studies.  Consistent  results  were  also  demonstrated  for 
the secondary endpoints, e.g. individual ACR components, DAS28 and patient reported outcomes. The 
design,  the  quality  of  conduct  and  the  analysis  of  the  clinical  studies  are  considered  sufficient  to 
demonstrate this benefit.  
The benefit has been demonstrated on the basis of randomised, double-blinded, controlled 24-weeks 
trials, maintenance of effect was demonstrated by open label extension trials that allow conclusions for 
up to one year. Although superior results to MTX have also been shown in a clinical trial including 
patients that were off MTX therapy at baseline and had shorter disease duration, a situation resembling 
a  first  line  setting,  the  current  efficacy  results  are  not  considered  sufficient  to  grant  a  marketing 
authorisation in this population. 
The applicant has provided evidence derived from a meta-analysis of efficacy [and safety] comparing 
anti-TNF  medications  to  tocilizumab.  Although  the  strength  of  evidence  derived  from  this  meta-
analysis  is  considered  inferior  to  results  of  a  clinical  trial,  the  conclusion  that  tocilizumab  and  anti-
TNF medications appear to have comparable efficacy is acknowledged.  
One year radiological data of joint destruction from a dedicated phase III study confirm earlier results 
in  the  Japanese  population,  namely  that  tocilizumab  is  effective  at  inhibiting  the  progression  of 
structural  damage.  Unfortunately  a  direct  comparison  of  effects  to  other  second  line  therapies  is  not 
possible at present because of different scoring systems used. 
Tocilizumab has been administered in combination with MTX in the pivotal studies except WA17824 
thus the preferable therapy is combination therapy. 
Risks: 
As  identified  risks  for  patients  treated  with  TCZ,  Roche  reported  serious  infections,  serious 
hypersensitivity  reactions  and  GI  perforation  as  complication  of  diverticulitis.  Potential  risks  for 
further evaluation were neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, liver enzyme elevation and their implications, 
elevated 
to  cardiovascular  and 
cerebrovascular events, and immunogenicity. For all identified and potential risks, risk minimisation 
activities  have  been  described.  Further  to  the  identified  and  potential  risk,  risk  identified  for  other 
biological DMARDs such as malignancies, demyelinating disorders have been addressed in the RMP. 
Regarding the effect of TCZ on IL-6 and the known suppression of CYP450 by IL-6, an influence on 
concentration of drugs metabolized by CYP450 is anticipated.  
implication,  especially  with  regard 
levels  and 
lipid 
their 
Missing information for relevant populations as elderly, paediatric patients, pregnant women, patients 
with  impaired  hepatic  and  also  renal  function  as  well  as  the  combination  with  other  biologics  and 
vaccination have been addressed, including the description of planned risk minimisation activities. 
Beside  the  reported  missing  information  of  the  combination  with  other  biological  DMARDs  there 
seems  to  be  a  tendency  of  increased  frequency  of  severe  neutropenia,  when  7  of  8  cases  of  severe 
neutropenia  occurred  in  patients  with  previous  treatment  with  anti-TNF  drugs,  but  only  a  limited 
number  of  patients  treated  with  TCZ  received  previous  anti-TNF  treatment.  Therefore  concomitant 
treatment with other biological DMARDs is not recommended and a corresponding warning statement 
has been included in the SPC. Additionally recommendations for monitoring blood cell count during 
treatment  and  also  recommendations  regarding  further  treatment  with  tocilizumab  when  neutrophil 
count will decrease had been included in the SPC.  
54/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding the occurrence of anti-TCZ antibodies and the limitation of the assay, which only measures 
not bound antibodies, further investigations are necessary. Because of the limitation of the assay there 
will be an underestimation of the incidence of patients experiencing anti-TCZ antibodies. Especially 
those patients who experience hypersensitivity reactions or infusion reactions should be tested for anti-
TCZ  antibodies.  The  risk  for  developing  anti-TCZ  antibodies  at  re-administration,  when  TCZ 
treatment had been interrupted should be investigated. For further evaluation of anti-TCZ antibodies in 
relation to hypersensitivity reactions and infusion reactions the Applicant had included corresponding 
questions in the guided questionnaire (see Pharmacovigilance). 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Balance: 
The overall benefit-risk ratio for Roactemra is considered positive. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
 
the following additional risk minimisation activities were required: see as detailed in section 
2.3  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of RoActemra in the following indication: 
RoActemra,  in  combination  with  methotrexate  (MTX)  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who have either responded inadequately to, or 
who  were  intolerant  to,  previous  therapy  with  one  or  more  disease  modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs 
(DMARDs) or tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists. In these patients, RoActemra can be given as 
monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
55/55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
