EMA/712748/2021 
EMEA/H/C/000955 
RoActemra (tocilizumab) 
An overview of RoActemra and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is RoActemra and what is it used for? 
RoActemra is a medicine used to treat: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
adults with severe rheumatoid arthritis that is getting worse who have not been previously treated 
with a medicine called methotrexate;  
adults with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis whose previous treatments with disease 
modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), such as methotrexate or medicines known as tumour 
necrosis factor (TNF) blockers, have not worked well enough or were not tolerated; 
children from 1 year of age with active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis in whom other 
treatments (with anti-inflammatory medicines called NSAIDs and corticosteroids) have not worked 
well enough; 
children from 2 years of age with juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis in whom treatment with 
methotrexate has not worked well enough.  
RoActemra is used in combination with methotrexate for these conditions but it can be used on its own 
in patients for whom methotrexate is inappropriate.  
RoActemra is also used to treat:  
• 
• 
adults with giant cell arteritis, a disease in which arteries, usually of the head, are swollen; 
adults and children from 2 years of age for the treatment of severe or life-threatening cytokine 
release syndrome (CRS, a condition that can cause nausea, vomiting, pain and low blood 
pressure). CRS is a side effect of certain cancer treatments and RoActemra is used for CRS caused 
by medicines known as chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) T-cell medicines. 
RoActemra can also be used in adults with COVID-19 who are receiving treatment with corticosteroid 
medicines by mouth or injection and require extra oxygen or mechanical ventilation (breathing assisted 
by a machine). 
RoActemra contains the active substance tocilizumab. 
How is RoActemra used? 
RoActemra can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who 
has experience in the diagnosis and treatment of the relevant condition.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RoActemra is available as a solution to be injected under the skin and as a concentrate for making a 
solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. How RoActemra is given, its dose and how often it is given 
depends on the condition it is used to treat. For COVID-19 and CRS, RoActemra must only be given as 
an infusion. 
For more information about using RoActemra, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does RoActemra work? 
The active substance in RoActemra, tocilizumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to a specific target (called an antigen) in the body. Tocilizumab 
attaches to the receptor for a messenger molecule or ‘cytokine’ called interleukin-6. This messenger is 
involved with inflammation and is found at high levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis, giant cell arteritis, CRS and COVID-19. By 
preventing interleukin-6 from attaching to its receptors, tocilizumab reduces the inflammation and 
other symptoms of these diseases. 
What benefits of RoActemra have been shown in studies? 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
In severe rheumatoid arthritis not previously treated with methotrexate, RoActemra given by infusion 
was investigated in one main study involving 1,162 patients. RoActemra, on its own or in combination 
with methotrexate, was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) plus methotrexate. After six 
months of treatment, 45% of patients taking RoActemra in combination with methotrexate (130 out of 
290) and 39% of patients taking RoActemra on its own (113 out of 292) achieved remission (did not 
show symptoms of the disease), compared with 15% of those taking placebo plus methotrexate (43 
out of 287).  
For the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis where other medicines were 
unsuccessful, RoActemra given by infusion was studied in five main studies involving a total of over 
4,000 adults. In three of these studies, RoActemra was compared with placebo, as an add-on to failing 
treatment with conventional rheumatoid arthritis medicines in a total of over 3,000 patients. Results 
showed that patients adding RoActemra were around four times more likely to respond to treatment 
than those adding placebo. One of the studies, which involved 1,196 patients, also showed that the 
combination of RoActemra and methotrexate slowed down the damage to the joints and improved 
physical function after up to two years, when compared with the combination of placebo and 
methotrexate. In the fourth study, which included 498 patients who had an inadequate response to 
TNF blockers, patients receiving RoActemra with methotrexate were around nine times more likely to 
respond than those receiving placebo with methotrexate. The fifth study involving 673 patients showed 
that patients receiving RoActemra on its own were more likely to respond than those taking 
methotrexate on its own. Almost 4,000 patients from these five studies went on to enter studies 
looking at the long-term effects of RoActemra treatment and results showed that response to 
RoActemra is maintained for at least two years.  
RoActemra given by injection under the skin was investigated in two studies involving 1,918 patients 
with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis where previous treatment with DMARD had not worked 
well. In the first study, RoActemra was more effective than placebo in treating rheumatoid arthritis: 
after six months of treatment with RoActemra, 61% of patients responded to treatment compared with 
32% on placebo. The other study, which compared RoActemra injected under the skin with RoActemra 
RoActemra (tocilizumab)  
EMA/712748/2021  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
given by infusion, showed that RoActemra injected under the skin was no less effective in achieving a 
response after six months.  
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
In systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, RoActemra given by infusion was compared with placebo in 
one main study involving 112 children in whom treatment with NSAID and corticosteroids did not work 
well enough. In this study 85% (64 out of 75) of patients treated with RoActemra responded to 
treatment and no longer had fever after three months, compared with 24% (9 out of 37) of patients 
receiving placebo. 
Another study involving 51 children from 1 year of age showed that RoActemra given by injection 
under the skin had a similar distribution in the body and effect on the disease to that previously seen 
with RoActemra given by infusion. 
Juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis  
In juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis, RoActemra given by infusion was compared with placebo in one 
main study involving 166 children from 2 years of age who could not take methotrexate or for whom 
methotrexate did not work well enough. Patients were allowed to continue treatment with 
methotrexate during the study. After 4 to 6 months of treatment, 26% of patients on RoActemra (21 
out of 82) had a flare-up of symptoms during treatment, compared with 48% of patients taking 
placebo (39 out of 81).  
Giant cell arteritis 
In giant cell arteritis, RoActemra given by injection under the skin was found more effective than 
placebo in one main study involving 251 adults. All patients were also treated with a corticosteroid, 
which was stopped after reducing the dose gradually over 6 or 12 months. One year after starting 
treatment, 56% of patients treated with RoActemra once a week did not have symptoms compared 
with 14% patients receiving placebo.  
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) 
RoActemra given by infusion was considered to be effective at treating severe CRS based on a review 
of data from 66 patients who experienced this condition after they were given CAR-T cell medicines to 
treat a blood cancer. The main measure of effectiveness was based on the number of patients whose 
CRS resolved within 14 days from the first dose of RoActemra, and who needed no more than two 
doses of the medicine, and no additional treatment other than corticosteroid medicines. Out of 51 
patients who had CRS after being given the CAR-T cell medicine tisagenlecleucel, 39 responded to 
treatment with RoActemra (76.5%), while 8 out 15 patients (53.3%) who had CRS after being given 
axicabtagene ciloleucel responded. 
COVID-19 
In severe COVID-19, one main study showed that treatment with RoActemra given by infusion in 
addition to standard treatment reduces the risk of death when compared with standard treatment 
alone. Overall, 31% of patients treated with RoActemra plus standard treatment (621 out of 2,022) 
died within 28 days of treatment compared with 35% of patients receiving standard treatment alone 
(729 out of 2,094). In addition, 57% of patients (1,150 out of 2,022) who received RoActemra were 
able to leave the hospital within 28 days compared with 50% of patients (1,044 out of 2,094) who 
received standard treatment alone. 
RoActemra (tocilizumab)  
EMA/712748/2021  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with RoActemra? 
In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic 
polyarthritis, giant cell arteritis or cytokine release syndrome, the most common side effects (which 
may affect up to 1 patient in 10) with RoActemra are upper respiratory tract infections (nose and 
throat infection), nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), headache, hypertension (high 
blood pressure) and abnormal liver function tests. The most serious side effects are serious infections, 
complications of diverticulitis (a disease affecting the gut) and hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions.  
In patients with COVID-19, the most common side effects (which may affect up to 1 patient in 10) with 
RoActemra are high levels of transaminases in the blood (a sign of possible liver problems), 
constipation, and urinary tract infections (infections of the structures that carry urine). 
RoActemra must not be used in patients who have an active, severe infection (except COVID-19). 
Doctors should monitor patients carefully for signs of infection during treatment, and should prescribe 
RoActemra with caution in patients who have had recurring or long-term infections, or diseases that 
could increase the risk of infections, such as diverticulitis or diabetes.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is RoActemra authorised in the EU? 
Studies show RoActemra is effective at reducing symptoms of several inflammatory conditions. When 
added to standard treatment, it is also effective at reducing the risk of dying from COVID-19 and the 
amount of time COVID-19 patients stay in hospital. The European Medicines Agency decided that 
RoActemra’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
RoActemra? 
The company that markets RoActemra must supply all doctors expected to prescribe the medicine for 
rheumatoid arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis and giant cell 
arteritis with an educational pack containing important information on the safety and correct use of 
RoActemra. The pack will also include a patient alert card with key safety information for patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of RoActemra have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of RoActemra are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with RoActemra are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about RoActemra: 
RoActemra received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 January 2009.  
Further information on RoActemra can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/RoActemra.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2021.  
RoActemra (tocilizumab)  
EMA/712748/2021  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
