EU RMP FOR ROACTEMRA 
Rationale for Submitting an Updated RMP: 
This RMP version 27.1 is submitted in support of a line extension application for the use 
of tocilizumab in COVID-19 (procedure EMEA/H/C/000955/II/0101) and in response to 
the CHMP and PRAC Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report. 
Summary of Significant Changes in This RMP: 
Part II: Module SVII and Module SVIII were updated to note that the safety concerns 
“serious infection” and “complications of diverticulitis” are considered important identified 
risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but are assessed as important potential risks for the 
indication of COVID-19. The important identified risk “severe hypersensitivity reactions” 
has been removed from the list of safety concerns. 
Parts III and V were updated to reflect the changes in the list of safety concerns. 
Annex 2 was updated to reflect the removal from the list of safety concerns of the 
important identified risk “severe hypersensitivity reactions”. 
Annex 3 was updated to remove the protocols for the studies WA22490 (ARTIS) and 
WA28029 (ARTHUR), post-approval commitments removed from the RMP within 
previous RMP update procedures. The study WA29358 protocol version 5.0 was 
replaced with version 6.0. 
Annex 4 was updated to remove the guided questionnaire associated with the risk 
“severe hypersensitivity reactions”. 
Annex 6 was updated to remove wording related to the risk of  
severe hypersensitivity reactions from both the physician information pack and the 
patient information pack. 
Annex 8 was updated to reflect all changes made to the RMP. 
Other RMP Versions under Evaluation: Not applicable. 
Details of Currently Approved RMP:  
RMP version number: 26.0 
Approved with Procedure Number: EMEA/H/C/000955/II/0097 
Date of approval (opinion date): 23 July 2020 (CHMP Opinion)  
 
 
 
 
 
See Page 1 for e-signature and date 
Dr. Birgitt Gellert (QPPV) 
(Delegate: [Deputy QPPV]) 
See Page 1 for e-signature and date 
  Date 
(Clinical Safety Team Leader) 
  Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PART I: PRODUCT(S) OVERVIEW 
Active Substance(s) 
(INN or common name) 
Tocilizumab  
Pharmacotherapeutic group(s) (ATC 
code) 
L04AC07 
Marketing Authorization Holder (or 
Applicant) 
Roche Registration GmbH 
Medicinal products to which this RMP 
refers 
One 
Invented name(s) in the European 
Economic Area (EEA)  
RoActemra

Marketing authorization procedure  
Centrally Authorized Procedure 
Brief description of the product 
including: 
Chemical Class: Immunosuppressants, Interleukin 
inhibitors 
Summary of mode of action:  
Tocilizumab binds specifically to both soluble and 
membrane-bound interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptors 
(sIL-6R and mIL-6R). Tocilizumab has been shown 
to inhibit sIL-6R and mIL-6R-mediated signaling. 
IL-6 is a pleiotropic pro-inflammatory cytokine 
produced by a variety of cell types including T- and 
B-cells, monocytes, and fibroblasts. IL-6 is 
involved in diverse physiologic processes such as 
T cell activation, induction of immunoglobulin 
secretion, induction of hepatic acute-phase protein 
synthesis, and stimulation of haematopoiesis. IL-6 
has been implicated in the pathogenesis of 
diseases including inflammatory diseases, 
osteoporosis, and neoplasia.  
Important information about its composition: 
Tocilizumab, a humanised IgG1 monoclonal 
antibody against the human IL-6 receptor 
produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
Hyperlink to the product information 
SmPC 
Indication(s) in the EEA  
Current: 
Intravenous (IV) Formulation: 
RoActemra (tocilizumab [TCZ]), in combination 
with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for: 
The treatment of severe, active, and progressive 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults not previously 
treated with MTX. 
The treatment of moderate to severe active RA in 
adult patients who have either responded 
inadequately to, or who were intolerant to, previous 
therapy with one or more disease-modifying 
 
 
anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or tumor necrosis 
factor (TNF) antagonists. In these patients, 
RoActemra can be given as monotherapy in case 
of intolerance to MTX or where continued 
treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of active 
systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) in 
patients 2 years of age and older, who have 
responded inadequately to previous therapy with 
NSAIDs and systemic corticosteroids. RoActemra 
can be given as monotherapy (in case of 
intolerance to MTX or where treatment with MTX is 
inappropriate) or in combination with MTX. 
RoActemra in combination with MTX is indicated 
for the treatment of polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
polyarthritis (pJIA; rheumatoid factor [RF] positive 
or negative and extended oligoarthritis) in patients 
2 years of age and older, who have responded 
inadequately to previous therapy with MTX. 
RoActemra can be given as monotherapy in case 
of intolerance to MTX or where continued 
treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell-induced 
severe or life-threatening cytokine release 
syndrome (CRS) in adults and paediatric patients 
2 years of age and older. 
Subcutaneous (SC) Formulation: 
RoActemra in combination with MTX, is indicated 
for: 
The treatment of severe, active, and progressive 
RA in adults not previously treated with MTX.  
The treatment of moderate to severe active RA in 
adult patients who have either responded 
inadequately to, or who were intolerant to, previous 
therapy with one or more DMARDs or TNF 
antagonists. In these patients, RoActemra can be 
given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to 
MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is 
inappropriate.  
The treatment of Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) in adult 
patients. 
The treatment of juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis 
(pJIA; RF positive or negative and extended 
oligoarthritis) in patients 2 years of age and older, 
who have responded inadequately to previous 
therapy with MTX. 
The treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis (sJIA) in patients 1 year of age and older, 
who have responded inadequately to previous 
therapy with NSAIDs and systemic corticosteroids. 
RoActemra can be given alone (in case of 
intolerance to MTX or where treatment with MTX is 
inappropriate) or in combination with MTX. 
Proposed: 
Intravenous (IV) Formulation: 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of 
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adults 
who are receiving systemic corticosteroids and 
require supplemental oxygen or mechanical 
ventilation. 
Dosage in the EEA 
Current: 
IV Formulation: 
RA Patients 
The recommended posology is 8 mg/kg body 
weight, given once every 4 weeks.  
For individuals whose body weight is more than 
100 kg, doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are 
not recommended  
sJIA Patients 
The recommended posology in patients above 
2 years of age is 8 mg/kg once every 2 weeks in 
patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or 
12 mg/kg once every 2 weeks in patients weighing 
less than 30 kg. The dose should be calculated 
based on the patient’s body weight at each 
administration. A change in dose should only be 
based on a consistent change in the patient’s body 
weight over time. 
pJIA Patients 
The recommended posology in patients above 
2 years of age is 8 mg/kg once every 4 weeks in 
patients weighing greater than or equal to 30 kg or 
10 mg/kg once every 4 weeks in patients weighing 
less than 30 kg. The dose should be calculated 
based on the patient’s body weight at each 
administration. A change in dose should only be 
based on a consistent change in the patient’s body 
weight over time.  
CRS Patients (adults and paediatrics) 
The recommended posology for treatment of CRS 
given as a 60-minute intravenous infusion is 
8 mg/kg in patients weighing greater than or equal 
to 30 kg or 12 mg/kg in patients weighing less than 
30 kg. RoActemra can be given alone or in 
combination with corticosteroids.  
If no clinical improvement in the signs and 
symptoms of CRS occurs after the first dose, up to 
three additional doses of RoActemra may be 
administered. The interval between consecutive 
doses should be at least 8 hours. Doses exceeding 
800 mg per infusion are not recommended in CRS 
patients.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SC Formulation: 
RA: 
The recommended posology is subcutaneous 
162 mg once every week. 
GCA: 
The recommended posology is subcutaneous 
162 mg once every week in combination with a 
tapering course of glucocorticoids. RoActemra can 
be used alone following discontinuation of 
glucocorticoids. RoActemra monotherapy should 
not be used for the treatment of acute relapses. 
Based upon the chronic nature of GCA, treatment 
beyond 52 weeks should be guided by disease 
activity, physician discretion, and patient choice.  
pJIA: 
The recommended posology in patients above 
2 years of age is subcutaneous 162 mg once every 
2 weeks in patients weighing greater than or equal 
to 30 kg or subcutaneous 162 mg once every 3 
weeks in patients weighing less than 30 kg. 
sJIA: 
•  The recommended posology in patients above 
1 year of age is subcutaneous 162 mg once 
every week in patients weighing greater than 
or equal to 30 kg or subcutaneous 162 mg 
once every 2 weeks in patients weighing less 
than 30 kg. 
•  Patients between 1 year and 2 years of age 
must have a minimum body weight of 10 kg 
when receiving RoActemra subcutaneously. 
Proposed: 
Intravenous (IV) Formulation: 
COVID-19 
The recommended posology for treatment of adult 
patients with COVID-19 is a single 60-minute 
intravenous infusion of 8 mg/kg, with a maximum 
dose of 800 mg. If clinical signs or symptoms 
worsen or do not improve after the first dose, one 
additional infusion of RoActemra 8 mg/kg may be 
administered. There should be an interval of at 
least 8 hours between these two infusions. 
Dosage in the EEA (continued) 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical form(s) and 
strengths 
Current: 
IV Formulation: 
Concentrate for Solution for Infusion 
The IV formulation of RoActemra is a clear to 
opalescent, colourless to pale yellow solution, 
supplied in type I clear glass vials with a butyl 
rubber stopper. Each milliliter concentrate contains 
20 mg tocilizumab. 
RoActemra IV is available in 4 mL, 10 mL, and 
20 mL vials, containing 80 mg, 200 mg, and 
400 mg of tocilizumab, respectively. 
SC Formulation: 
The SC formulation of RoActemra is a clear to 
opalescent, and colourless to slightly yellowish 
solution available in a pre-filled syringe (PFS) or 
pre-filled pen containing the unit dose of 
162 mg/0.9 mL tocilizumab in L-histidine buffer, 
L-histidine monohydrochloride, polysorbate-80, 
L- arginine, L-arginine hydrochloride, L-methionine, 
and Water for Injections. The final commercial drug 
product configuration consists of the PFS 
assembled with the needle safety device (NSD). 
Note: Pharmaceutical form and strength of the 
PFS+NSD is identical to the pre-filled pen. 
Proposed: Not applicable 
Is or will the product be subject to 
additional monitoring in the European 
Union? 
No 
CAR = chimeric antigen receptor; CHO = Chinese hamster ovary; COVID-19 = coronavirus 
disease 2019; CRS = cytokine release syndrome; DMARD = disease-modifying anti-
rheumatic drug; EEA = European Economic Area; GCA = Giant Cell Arteritis; IV 
= intravenous; MTX=methotrexate; RA = rheumatoid arthritis; RF = rheumatoid factor; RMP 
= risk management plan; NSAID = nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug; NSD = needle 
safety device; pJIA = polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; PFS = pre-filled syringe; sJIA 
= systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis; SC = subcutaneous; SmPC = Summary of Product 
Characteristics; TCZ = tocilizumab; TNF = tumor necrosis factor. 
 
 
 
 
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS 
Abbreviation 
AE 
AI 
ALT 
AST 
CAR 
CDC 
Definition 
adverse event 
autoinjector (also referred to as pre-filled pen/ACTPen/AI-
1000G2/AI-G2) 
alanine aminotransferase 
aspartate aminotransferase 
chimeric antigen receptor 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
COVID-19 
coronavirus disease 2019 
CRS 
CS 
CSR 
CTCAE 
DHPC 
DILI 
DMARD 
ECDC 
ECMO 
EMA 
EPAR 
EUA 
FDA 
GCA 
GI 
HLA 
HLT 
ICU 
IL 
ILD 
IV 
JIA 
MAH 
MAS 
MTX 
cytokine release syndrome 
corticosteroids 
clinical study report 
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
Direct Healthcare Professional Communication 
drug-induced liver injury 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
European Medicines Agency 
European Public Assessment Report 
Emergency Use Authorization 
Food and Drug Administration 
giant cell arteritis 
gastrointestinal 
human leukocyte antigen 
high-level term  
intensive care unit 
interleukin 
interstitial lung disease  
intravenous 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Marketing Authorization Holder  
macrophage activation syndrome 
methotrexate 
NSAID 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
Abbreviation 
PBO 
PBRER 
PFS 
pJIA 
PSUR 
PY 
QW 
RA 
RDV 
RF 
RMP 
SAEs 
Definition 
placebo 
Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Report 
pre-filled syringe 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Periodic Safety Update Report 
person years 
once weekly 
rheumatoid arthritis 
remdesivir 
rheumatoid factor 
Risk Management Plan 
serious adverse event 
SARS-CoV-2 
severe acute respiratory syndrome 
SC 
SCS 
sJIA 
SmPC 
SMQ 
TCZ 
TNFα 
ULN 
subcutaneous 
Summary of Clinical Safety 
systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Standardised MedDRA Query 
tocilizumab 
tumor necrosis factor alpha 
upper limit of normal 
PART II: SAFETY SPECIFICATION 
PART II: MODULE SI - EPIDEMIOLOGY OF THE INDICATION(S) 
AND TARGET POPULATION(S) 
SI.1  
Rheumatoid Arthritis 
Incidence  
In adults aged 18 years and older, the overall incidence of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is 
45 per 100,000 person years (PY) (Gabriel et al. 2003).  
Prevalence 
The overall prevalence of RA in most industrialized countries is between 0.3% and 1% 
(Woolf 2003); 14/1000 female, 7.4/1000 male population (Gabriel et al. 1999). Rates are 
lower in developing countries and also relatively low in Japan (0.0 to 2.4/1000 male and 
2.0 to 7.0/1000 female) (Woolf 2003). 
Demographics: 
Approximately 73% of patients with RA are female (Gabriel et al. 2003). Age and sex 
distribution is largely similar across American and European populations (Abdel-Nasser 
et al.1997). Incidence and prevalence of RA rises with increasing age. Socioeconomic 
factors may influence the time between symptom presentation and diagnosis but not risk 
of RA. 
The Main Existing Treatment Options: 
Numerous medications are available for the treatment of RA, which have varying 
efficacy and safety profiles in the treatment of the disease. 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are commonly used in the treatment of 
RA but provide only symptomatic relief. 
Conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), for example 
methotrexate (MTX), have been the cornerstone of RA treatment for many years and are 
recommended for early treatment as there is evidence that these agents may maintain 
or improve physical function and retard radiographic joint damage. These conventional 
DMARDs, in particular MTX, are often used in combination with biologic DMARDs (see 
below). However, treatment is limited by toxicity and/or ineffectiveness. 
Several biologic DMARDs targeting the cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) 
have been developed, but approximately 30% of patients fail to respond to these 
therapies. In addition to biologics targeting the interleukin (IL)-6 pathway and TNFα, 
biologics with different mechanisms of action have also been approved for the treatment 
of RA, including those that target: cytokine pathways such as IL-1 inhibitors; CTLA4 to 
inhibit the full activation of T cells; and anti-CD20 which depletes B-cells. Small 
 
molecules targeting Janus kinase have also been approved for the treatment of RA. 
These immunomodulatory treatments are not approved for use in combination with each 
other. 
Risk Factors for the Disease 
There is little evidence to suggest that socioeconomic or occupational factors contribute 
to risk of RA, although it may influence the time between symptom presentation and 
diagnosis and, thus, an early declaration of RA. Incidence and prevalence of RA rise 
with increasing age. Genetic susceptibility is a major determinant of susceptibility to RA; 
the majority of individuals who develop RA are Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) –DR4 
or –DR1 or both. 
Natural History of the Indicated Condition in the Untreated Population:  
Mortality: Compared with the general population, mortality is increased in patients with 
RA (SMR 1.27 – 2.03) (Björnadal et al. 2002; Gabriel et al. 2003; Young et al. 2007). 
Published mortality rates from large observational studies in RA patients not treated with 
biologic DMARDs range from 3.08 to 5.18 events per 100  PY. Corresponding mortality 
rates in RA patients treated with anti-TNF therapies were lower (range 0.70 to 
1.61 events per 100 PY) 
Discussion of the possible stages of disease progression to be treated: Early RA is 
typically defined as having RA symptoms of less than 2 years duration, however, it is not 
uncommon for early RA to be defined as symptoms in  < 1, 3, or 5 years (Scott, 2007). 
Outcome of the (untreated) target disease: Patients may initially present with arthritis 
symptoms, but cannot immediately be classified into RA. A review of early arthritis 
cohorts revealed that 13% to 54% of patients initially classified as having 
undifferentiated arthritis went on to have a classification of RA after 1 year of follow-up, 
while 21% to 87% had persistent arthritis that remained unclassifiable (Hazes and Luime 
2011). 
Important Comorbidities:  
As RA is associated with inflammation and changes of immunity, various comorbidities 
may be present. Comorbidities common among early RA patients include cardiovascular 
disease, anemia, and depression. Coronary artery disease is the major cause of death in 
RA patients (SMR 1.79) (Björnadal et al. 2002). GI perforations, infections, 
malignancies, and cardiovascular disease are leading causes of increased mortality and 
morbidity in this population. Given the complexities of interstitial lung disease (ILD), it is 
a well-recognized comorbidity to be monitored in the context of serious and opportunistic 
infections. 
Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis 
SI.2  
Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) is a subset of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
that is characterized by the presence of arthritis and quotidian fever, accompanied by 
one or more of the following:  rash, lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly and/or 
splenomegaly, and serositis.  
 
Incidence 
In Europe, incidence of sJIA has been reported as 0.4-0.9 per 100,000 (Moe and Rygg 
1998; Huemer et al. 2001; Bernston et al. 2003; Kaipianinen Seppanen and Savolainen 
2001; Pruunslid et al. 2007; Modesto et al. 2010) 
Prevalence 
The prevalence of JIA in Europe has been reported as between 3.5-86/100,000 (Prieur 
et al. 1987; Gare and Fasth 1992; Modesto et al. 2010), and sJIA accounts for 6%-15% 
of children with JIA seen in clinics in North America and Europe (Cassidy et al. 2005; 
Woo 2006). 
Demographics: 
sJIA occurs throughout childhood, with a peak onset between 0 - 4 years (Ravelli and 
Martini 2007; Svantesson et al.1983; Gare and Fasth 1992; Bernston et al. 2003). Both 
sexes are equally affected (Cassidy and Petty 2005; Laxer and Schneider 1998; 
Symmons et al.1996). 
•  The Main Existing Treatment Options: 
The initial treatment of sJIA varies depending on the extent of systemic symptoms and 
the number of joints with active arthritis.  
Various non-biologic treatments for sJIA include NSAIDs, corticosteroids (CS) (oral or 
intravenous [IV]) and DMARDs (such as MTX or leflunomide). MTX can be dosed orally 
or subcutaneously for sJIA. However, its use in sJIA is limited by its efficacy and safety 
profile. Adverse events (AEs) can include elevated liver function test results, anemia, 
and teratogenicity. Based on clinical trial data, there is a lack of evidence to indicate that 
MTX is superior to placebo in the treatment of sJIA due to minimal effect on systemic 
features and active arthritis (Woo et al. 2000). Corticosteroids are often administered 
orally or IV to control severe disease. However, the AEs associated with the use of CS 
are numerous and include salt and water retention, weight gain, hypertension, peptic 
ulcer disease, mood swings, and easy bruisability. Long-term use of CS is associated 
with complications such as osteoporosis, adrenal gland suppression, avascular necrosis, 
cataracts, lowered resistance to serious infection, insulin resistance, osteopenia, and 
growth failure. All of these factors contribute to long-term disability. Thus, the use of 
these medications in sJIA is limited by their side effect profile.  
 
Anti-cytokine biologic therapies are highly effective in treating sJIA, and both 
canakinumab (anti-IL-1β) and tocilizumab (TCZ; anti-IL-6R) are approved for the 
treatment of sJIA. Anakinra (anti-IL-1R), approved for adult RA, is also commonly used 
to treat sJIA. Patients may also receive other RA biologics, including aTNF inhibitors, 
although these are generally considered less effective than the other anti-cytokine 
therapies. NSAIDs, MTX, and CS are often used concomitantly with biologic therapies, 
and can be used concomitantly with TCZ. 
Natural History of the Indicated Condition in the Untreated Population:  
Mortality: sJIA is associated with an increased risk of mortality compared with children 
with other types of JIA (Woo 2006) Almost two-thirds of all deaths that occur in JIA, 
occur in children with sJIA (Wallace and Levinson 1991). As reported for a variety of JIA 
cohorts from the 1970s and 1980s, mortality was  14% for sJIA and 3% for JIA (Laxer 
and Schneider 1998). Currently, JIA-related mortality is estimated at less than 1% in 
Europe (Cassidy and Petty 2005). 
Important Comorbidities:  
Important comorbid conditions are serious infections, impaired skeletal development in 
sJIA, Macrophage Activation Syndrome (MAS), and altered immune status. 
SI.3  
Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis 
Incidence  
Projected European incidence = 4.9 - 6.6 per 100,000: 
Based on (a) pcJIA proportion of 27%-37% among all JIA in Europe (Bernston et al. 
2003; Solau-Gervais et al. 2010; Nordal et al. 2011) and (b) JIA incidence average of 
approximately 18 per 100,000 (Bernston et al. 2003; Kaipiainen-Seppänen and 
Savolainen 2001; Danner et al. 2006; Pruunsild et al. 2007) and (c) Estonia incidences 
from study: Oligoarthritis =11.7 per 100 000, and polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
(pJIA) RF positive 4.4 per 100 000 (Pruunsild et al.2007). 
Projected worldwide incidence = 0.3 - 7.4 per 100,000: 
Worldwide incidence approximately 33% of JIA (Ravelli and Martini 2007) and worldwide 
incidence 0.8 to 22.6 per 100,000 (Manners and Bower 2002). 
Prevalence 
Projected European prevalence for indicator conditions = 4.2 - 5.7 per 100,000: 
Based on (a) pcJIA proportion of 27%-37% among all JIA in Europe (Bernston et al. 
2003; Solau-Gervais et al. 2010; Nordal et al. 2011) and (b) JIA prevalence 15.7 cases 
per 100,000 (Solau-Gervais et al. 2010). 
Projected worldwide prevalence = 2.3 to 131.4 per 100,000: 
Worldwide indicator ~34% of JIA (Ravelli and Martini 2007) and worldwide prevalence 
range of 7 to 401 per 100,000 (Manners and Bower 2002). 
 
Demographics: 
Oligoarthritis typically has an onset in children aged 2-4 years and predominately affects 
females (Dannecker and Quartier 2009; Ravelli and Martini 2007). Dannecker and 
Quartier 2009; Ravelli and Martini 2007). Polyarthritis RF+ occurs primarily in adolescent 
girls (Dannecker and Quartier 2009; Ravelli and Martini 2007Dannecker and Quartier 
2009; Ravelli and Martini 2007). The onset of Polyarthritis RF- has two peaks at 2 - 4 
years and 6 – 12 years (Ravelli and Martini 2007). Predominance of males with 
oligoarthritis and sJIA was found in studies from India, Turkey, and Singapore (Aggarwal 
and Misra 1994; Ozen et al. 1998). South Africa reported equal sex ratio for JIA 
(Haffejee et al. 1984). 
The Main Existing Treatment Options:  
Main treatment options include NSAIDs, MTX, and CS. NSAIDs are effective for many 
patients. If NSAIDs are ineffective, second-line medications may be considered such as 
MTX and CS. 
Methotrexate can be dosed orally or SC for pJIA. Its use in pJIA is limited by its safety 
profile, which can include elevated liver function test results, anemia, and teratogenicity.  
Corticosteroids are often administered orally or IV to control severe disease. In addition, 
intra-articular steroid injections can also be utilized at the time of disease onset or during 
disease course. CS have a more limited role as systemic agents in the treatment of pJIA 
as compared with sJIA. 
NSAIDs, MTX, and CS can continue to be used concomitantly with TCZ in the treatment 
of pJIA. Leflunomide, a reversible inhibitor of de novo pyrimidine synthesis has also 
been reported to be effective in children with pJIA. 
Biological agents (other than TCZ) have provided therapeutic options for patients with 
moderate to severe pJIA; these options include etanercept (Enbrel), adalimumab 
(Humira), and abatacept (Orencia). Two biologic agents are not used concomitantly. 
Natural History of the Indicated Condition in the Untreated Population:  
Mortality: JIA-related mortality is estimated at less than 1% in Europe (Cassidy and Petty 
2005). Mortality estimates specifically for the subtypes oligoarthritis and polyarthritis JIA 
are not available. However, it is unlikely that the mortality rate for these subtypes is 
higher, because together the oligoarticular JIA and pJIA subtypes constitute 40% - 53% 
of all JIA and generally patients with oligoarthritis have the best prognosis while those 
with polyarthritis have a varied prognosis; the worst outcomes are associated with joint 
erosions and serious complications of iridocyclitis (Guillaume et al. 2000; Ravelli and 
Martini 2007). Despite oligoarticular JIA and pJIA accounting for the majority of cases in 
JIA they have a much lower risk of mortality compared to sJIA, which has mortality of 
14% (predominantly related to MAS), which constitutes 10%-20% of all JIA. The Dutch 
 
and Germany registry of JIA patients treated with etanercept reported no deaths among 
patients with oligoarticular JIA and pJIA (Prince et al. 2009; Horneff et al. 2009). 
Important Comorbidities:  
Important comorbidities include uveitis/iridocyclitis, osteopenia and osteoporosis, and 
leg-length discrepancy, contractures, and growth retardation. 
SI.4   Giant Cell Arteritis 
Incidence: 
The incidence of Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) appears to have a geographic gradient; the 
disease is more frequently found in high latitudes. In the Northern hemisphere, there is a 
significant increase in both incidence and prevalence with increasingly northerly 
latitudes. The highest incidence rates have been reported in Scandinavia and the United 
Kingdom at 20 to 30 cases per 100,000 people aged 50 years or older. By contrast, 
studies from Southern Europe have consistently reported lower incidence rates than 
those from Scandinavia at 7 to 10 cases per 100,000 people aged 50 years or older 
(González-Gay et al. 2009; Watts and Scott 2014). 
Prevalence: 
The sex ratio and incidence appear to vary. Studies from Northern and Western Europe 
report that women are 2 to 3 times more likely to be diagnosed with GCA than men 
(Watts and Scott 2014). In the study by Petri et al. (2015), the incidence in women was 
reported as twice that in men in a U.K.-based patient population and within the reported 
range for studies in Northern and Western Europe. The ratio of females to males 
diagnosed with GCA is lower in studies from Southern Europe and can be close to 1:1 in 
other countries (Petri et al. 2015)  
Demographics: 
GCA primarily affects adults 50 years of age or older, and the risk for GCA increases 
with advancing age, with the highest rates observed in individuals between 70 and 
79 years of age (González-Gay et al. 2009; Petri et al. 2015). In women, GCA incidence 
peaks from age 70 to 79 years. In men, GCA incidence increases but plateaus, with the 
peak at 80 years and older.  
1.  The Main Existing Treatment Options: 
Glucocorticoids (steroids) are the cornerstone of treatment for GCA (Mukhtyar et al. 
2009; Broder et al. 2016). Oral steroids (usually prednisone/prednisolone) are initiated at 
a dose of 40 to 60 mg/day if a diagnosis of GCA is strongly suspected or confirmed by 
biopsy or imaging (Mukhtyar et al. 2009). Patients with complicated GCA, for example 
those with evolving vision loss or history of amaurosis fugax, are often treated with IV 
methylprednisolone 500 mg to 1 g daily for 3 days (Mazlumzadeh et al. 2006). Once the 
clinical signs and symptoms of GCA have subsided, typically after 2 to 4 weeks, the 
 
 
steroid dose is gradually tapered. Introduction of anti-platelet agents should be 
considered carefully owing to the risk of acute myocardial infarction, cerebral ischemia, 
hypertensive crisis, psychosis, and hyperosmolar decompensation of diabetes (Yates et 
al. 2014). 
Despite their effectiveness at inducing remission of systemic inflammation and 
preventing acute damage (e.g., blindness), this comes with a high toxicity burden, with 
approximately 80% of patients suffering GC-related adverse clinical events at 10-year 
follow-up (Proven et al. 2003). In addition, GC are not as effective at maintaining 
remission, with many patients (up to 50%) experiencing relapse or flare-up of symptoms 
during reduction or discontinuation of glucocorticoids (Proven et al. 2003). Tocilizumab 
has been approved after demonstrating improved induction of remission compared to 
steroids alone and maintenance of steroid free remission resulting in reduced cumulative 
steroid dose. Other agents, including azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, MTX, infliximab, 
and etanercept, have shown conflicting or no evidence of benefit in the treatment of 
GCA. In spite of the paucity of evidence, MTX is used inconsistently as standard of care 
for glucocorticoid-sparing in relapsing patients.  
Risk Factors for the Disease: 
GCA primarily affects adults 50 years of age or older, and the risk for GCA increases 
with advancing age, with the highest rates observed in individuals between 70 and 79 
years of age (González-Gay et al. 2009; Petri et al. 2015). 
Susceptibility to GCA has been associated with an increased incidence of HLA-DR4 and 
HLA-DRB1*0401 (González-Gay et al. 2000). Other genetic factors, particularly those 
involved in the immune and inflammatory pathways, are likely also important in the 
susceptibility to GCA. 
Natural History of the Indicated Condition in the Untreated Population:  
Outcome of the (untreated) target disease:  
The prognosis for patients with untreated GCA is extremely poor, with many patients 
suffering vision loss, or death from myocardial infarction, stroke, or dissecting aortic 
aneurysm (Foroozan et al. 2003; González-Gay et al. 2000) 
Important Comorbidities:  
GCA patients in the UK are reported as commonly experiencing aortic aneurysm, large 
vessel complications, polymyalgia rheumatica, visual disturbances, facial pain, 
osteoporosis, hypokalemia, and various infections such as oral/esophageal thrush and 
herpes zoster (Petri et al. 2015). 
 
SI.5   Cytokine Release Syndrome 
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is a potentially life-threatening symptom complex, 
caused by the excessive release of cytokines by immune effector or target cells during 
an exaggerated immune response. CRS can be triggered by infections or by therapeutic 
interventions, which activate the immune response, with the extent of severity most likely 
related to the degree and duration of immune activation. Severe or life-threatening CRS 
is a medical emergency, and if unsuccessfully managed, can result in significant 
morbidity or mortality. 
Incidence: 
In ZUMA-11 (Phase 2), CRS occurred in 93% of the 101 subjects treated with 
axicabtagene ciloleucel. Of these subjects who experienced CRS, Grade 1 or 2 occurred 
in 80% and Grade 3 or higher occurred in 12%. 
Out of 203 patients infused with tisagenlecleucel across Studies2 B22023, B2205J4 and 
C22015, a total of 141 patients experience CRS of any grade. Of the 141 patients, 
50 required intervention with TCZ. Demographics (ZUMA-1; Phase 2): 
–  There was no significant difference in incidence of CRS observed in subjects 
based on their performance status (i.e., ECOG), age, or sex. 
–  Of the 101 subjects in ZUMA-1 (Phase 2), the age of the subjects ranged from 
24 years to 77 years, with a median age of 58 years. 
–  Of these 101 subjects, 68 subjects were male and 33 were female. 
Demographics (B2202, B2205J, and C2201): 
–  The efficacy population for the tisagenlecleucel cohort included 28 males and 
23 females (total 51 patients) of median age 17 years (range, 3–68 years) 
The Main Existing Treatment Options: 
Currently there are no drugs approved in the European Union for the treatment of 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell-induced CRS. However, the Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human Use has recently issued a positive opinion on the use of 
TCZ for the treatment of CRS 
Natural history of the indicated condition in the (untreated) population, including mortality 
and morbidity: 
1 A Phase 1-2 Multi-Center Study Evaluating Axicabtagene Ciloleucel in Subjects With Refractory Aggressive Non-
Hodgkin Lymphoma (ZUMA-1). Sponsor: Kite, A Gilead Company 
2 Studies B2202, B2205J and C2201 were sponsored by Novartis 
3 B2202: A Phase II, single arm, multicenter trial to determine the efficacy and safety of CTL019 in paediatric patients with 
relapsed and refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
4 B2205J: A Phase II, single arm, multicenter trial to determine the efficacy and safety of CTL019 in paediatric patients 
with relapsed and refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
5 C2201: A phase II, single arm, multicenter trial to determine the efficacy and safety of CTL019 in adult patients with 
relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) 
 
 
The cytokines implicated in CRS may be directly produced by the infused CAR T cells, 
as well as other immune cells such as macrophages that might produce large amounts 
of cytokines in response to cytokines produced by the infused CAR T cells. In contrast to 
neurologic AEs, Grade 3 or higher CRS was more robustly associated with a broad array 
of cytokine that can be produced by activated myeloid and T cells rather than with the 
CAR T cell levels post-treatment. A wide variety of cytokines including IL-6, interferon γ, 
TNFα, IL-2, IL-2 receptorα (IL2Rα), IL 1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), IL-8, and IL-10 are 
elevated in the serum of patients experiencing fever, tachycardia, hypotension, and 
other toxicities after CAR T cell infusions (Brudno and Kochenderfer 2016). The 
association of CRS with several of these cytokines and chemokines is likely related to 
their known functional activities. IL 6 and TNFα mediate vascular permeability, 
hypotension, fever, and tissue damage (Sprague and Khalil 2009); chemokines such as 
IL-8 trigger mobilization and redistribution of activated immune cells throughout the body 
(Griffith et al. 2014); and IL-1ra and IL-2Rα are indicative of macrophage and general 
immune activation (Ravelli et al. 2012). Levels of these cytokines decreased by 1 month 
post CAR T cell infusion, a finding consistent with the timing and reversibility of CRS. In 
ZUMA-1 (Phase 2), CRS occurred in 93% of patients, 12% of whom experienced Grade 
3 or higher (severe, life-threatening and fatal) CRS. 
CAR T-related AEs, including fever, malaise, fatigue, anorexia, myalgia, arthralgia, 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, skin rashes, tachypnea, hypoxemia, tachycardia, 
hypotension, increased or decreased cardiac output, renal impairment, elevated 
transaminases and bilirubin, and bleeding, can cause severe distress and require 
medical intervention. In the short-term CRS will impact the patient’s quality of life 
although this is short lived and likely to be confined to the period of hospitalization with 
limited long-term effects. In severe cases, CRS related serious adverse events (SAEs) 
may be associated with death. 
Risk factors and risk groups: 
Patient factors: 
In some reports, the severity of CRS and elevation of serum cytokines have been related 
to disease burden, with higher disease burden predicting more toxicity presumably 
because this leads to higher levels of T cell activation (Almasbak et al. 2016; Brudno and 
Kochenderfer 2016). Maude et al. (2014) reported that the baseline disease burden (the 
percentage of blast cells in bone marrow before infusion) correlated with the severity of 
the CRS; a higher disease burden was significantly associated with severe CRS 
(p=0.002), (Maude et al. 2014). CRS associated with adoptive T cell therapies has been 
consistently associated with elevated interferon gamma (IFNγ), IL 6, and TNFα levels, 
and increases in IL 2, granulocyte macrophage–colony stimulating factor (GM CSF), IL 
10, IL 8, IL 5, and fractalkine (Kalos et al. 2011; Kochenderfer et al. 2012; Grupp et al. 
2013; Davila et al. 2014). CRS has been known to be associated with end organ 
dysfunction (e.g., hepatic, renal, cardiac, pulmonary). In addition, worsening of 
underlying organ pathologies can occur in the setting of CRS. 
 
Dose-related (ZUMA-1; Phase 2): 
–  Subjects who received product with total T cell numbers greater than the 
population median had a higher incidence of Grade 3 or higher CRS (17.6% vs 
8.0%). 
–  Subjects dosed with product potency (defined as IFN-γ production) greater than 
the population median had higher Grade 3 or higher CRS (20.0% vs 5.9%). 
Important comorbidities (ZUMA-1; Phase 2): 
Subjects with the following conditions were excluded from the studies: 
–  Hepatic impairment 
–  Renal impairment 
–  Cardiac impairment 
–  Pulmonary impairment 
CRS has been known to be associated with end organ dysfunction (e.g. hepatic, renal, 
cardiac, and pulmonary). In addition, worsening of underlying organ pathologies can 
occur in the setting of CRS. 
SI.6   COVID-19 
Incidence 
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by the most 
recently discovered coronavirus named novel severe acute respiratory syndrome 
(SARS-CoV-2) (WHO 2020a). As of 18 May 2021, approximately 163.3 million confirmed 
cases of COVID-19 have been reported globally by the WHO. The United States has 
32.6 million confirmed cases making one-quarter of all global confirmed cases followed 
by India with approximately 25.2 million confirmed cases, and Brazil with 15.6 million 
confirmed cases. In Europe, over 53.7 million cases were confirmed so far. The UK, 
France, and Italy are the most affected nations in Europe with over 4 million confirmed 
cases in each nation (WHO 2020a).   
Although most patients have mild symptoms and good prognosis, COVID-19 can 
develop to severe illnesses including pneumonia, pulmonary edema, acute respiratory 
distress syndrome, multiple organ failure, or death (Li et al. 2020).  
According to the data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control 
(ECDC), pooled data from 25 countries for Week 25 (27 June 2021) showed that there 
were 6 patients per 100 000 population in hospital due to COVID-19. According to 
pooled weekly hospital admissions data from 18 countries, new admissions were 1 per 
100 000 population. (ECDC 2021). 
 
The clinical spectrum of COVID-19 ranges from mild to critically ill cases leading to 
hospitalization and intensive care unit (ICU) admission (Yang et al. 2020b).  
Demographics 
According to WHO, SARS-CoV-2 causing COVID-19, infects people of all ages. 
However, evidence suggests that older people (i.e., people over 60 years old) and those 
with underlying medical conditions (such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic 
respiratory disease, and cancer) are at a higher risk of severe COVID-19 disease. The 
risk of severe disease gradually increases with age starting from around 40 years (WHO 
2020c). A small number of cases of COVID-19 have been described in children. A study 
retrospectively enrolled 366 hospitalized children with respiratory symptoms from 
January 7 to 15, 2020 in China. COVID-19 was detected in 6 cases (1.6%), 4 of which 
showed typical viral pneumonia patterns, as assessed radiographically (Liu et al. 2020).  
Another report from the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) showed that the number of 
cases of COVID-19 in the United States between June and August 2020, was highest in 
the age group 20–29 years, accounting for more than 20% of the total (Venkatesan 
2020). Among the laboratory-confirmed COVID-19–associated hospitalizations reported 
through COVID-NET in the United States, the cumulative rate of hospitalization as of 3 
July  2021 was reported to be: 100.4 per 100,000 (for age <18 years), 348 per 100,000 
(for ≥18 years), 845.8 per 100,000 (for 50-64 years), and 1703.2 per 100,000 population 
for patients aged 65 years and older (COVID-NET). 
Clinical Management of COVID-19 
Prevention 
To date, four vaccines have been granted conditional marketing authorization in the 
European Union:  the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine (Comirnaty) was granted conditional MA 
on 21 December 2020 for the prevention of COVID-19 in individuals 16 years of age and 
older and, as of 31 May 2021, is approved for individuals aged 12 years and older. 
Subsequent conditional MAs were granted to the Moderna vaccine (Spikevax) and the 
AstraZeneca/Oxford University vaccine (Vaxzevria) in January 2021 and to the Janssen 
COVID-19 vaccine on 11 March 2021 for the prevention of COVID-19 in individuals 
18 years of age or older. 
Global efforts are underway to prioritize vaccination for adults most vulnerable to 
COVID-19. The long-term protection afforded by these vaccines is currently unknown. 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Treatment options for COVID-19 have been evolving since the pandemic was declared 
in March 2020. Initially, treatment was largely supportive in the outpatient or hospitalized 
setting and included the use of anti-pyretics, fluids, antibiotics if bacterial secondary or 
co-infection was suspected, and supplemental oxygen.   
Of note, systemic corticosteroids were not routinely recommended until emerging data 
from clinical trials, including the RECOVERY trial for the dexamethasone cohort (Horby 
et al. 2021) indicated a mortality benefit among patients requiring supplemental oxygen 
or mechanical ventilation. The RECOVERY trial demonstrated that dexamethasone 
resulted in an absolute reduction in mortality of 2.8% (22.9% for dexamethasone vs. 
25.7% for Usual Care; age-adjusted rate ratio, 0.83 [95% CI: 0.75, 93]). The benefit was 
greatest for patients who were receiving invasive mechanical ventilation at the time of 
randomization with mortality of 29.3% for dexamethasone versus 41.4% for Usual Care 
(rate ratio, 0.64 [95% CI: 0.51-0.81]) (Horby et al. 2021). The European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) endorsed use of dexamethasone in COVID-19 patients on oxygen or 
mechanical ventilation on 18 September 2020 (EMA Webpage 2020).  
Several other therapies for the treatment of severe or critical COVID-19 have been 
granted conditional approvals/Emergency Use Authorizations (EUAs) globally.  
Remdesivir (RDV), a broad-spectrum antiviral, was granted conditional approval by the 
EMA on 25 June 2020 and is indicated for use in adults and adolescents from 12 years 
of age with pneumonia who require supplemental oxygen. The recommendation was 
mainly based on data from Study NIAID-ACTT-1, sponsored by the U.S. National 
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), plus supporting data from other 
studies of RDV. Study NIAID-ACTT-1, a double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III trial, 
showed that treatment with RDV resulted in clinically meaningful improvements across 
multiple outcome assessments (including shortening the time to recovery) compared 
with placebo in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 (Beigel et al. 2020). 
On 29 April 2021, the EMA announced they had begun evaluation of a marketing 
authorization application to extend the use of the JAK inhibitor baricitinib (Olumiant) to 
include treatment of COVID-19 in hospitalized patients from 10 years of age who require 
supplemental oxygen. The accelerated assessment is based on results from the two 
Phase III studies of baricitinib in hospitalized patients (COV-BARRIER and ACTT-2). 
However, uncertainty remains around the use of baricitinib with concomitant 
corticosteroids, and the Phase III COV-BARRIER study in hospitalized COVID-19 
patients failed to meet its primary endpoint, a difference in the proportion of participants 
progressing to the first occurrence of non-invasive ventilation (including high flow 
oxygen) or invasive mechanical ventilation (including extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation [ECMO]) or death by Day 28 (Lilly and Incyte Press Release 2021). Another 
Phase III study (ACTT-4) comparing baricitinib+RDV to dexamethasone+RDV was 
 
recently halted for futility (NIH Press Release 2021).  
On 24 June 2021, the FDA issued an EUA for Actemra for the treatment of COVID-19 in 
hospitalized patients and paediatric patients (2 years of age and older) who are receiving 
systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen, non-invasive or invasive 
mechanical ventilation, or ECMO.  
Medical Need 
Despite ongoing advances in the development of vaccines and treatments for 
COVID-19, significant unmet medical need remains in the treatment of COVID-19, 
especially in hospitalized patients with severe COVID-19 pneumonia who may progress 
to multiple organ failure and death and often require extensive healthcare resources, 
including ICU admission and mechanical ventilation.   
Currently, the only treatment, which has been granted conditional MA for hospitalized 
COVID-19 patients in the EU is remdesivir; however, consistent benefits in mortality, 
need for mechanical ventilation and duration of hospital stay have not been observed 
across different studies (Beigel et al. 2020; WHO Solidarity Trial Consortium 2021). 
Additionally, the EMA endorsed use of dexamethasone in COVID-19 patients on oxygen 
or mechanical ventilation on 18 September 2020 (EMA Webpage 2020).  
PART II: MODULE SII - NONCLINICAL PART OF THE SAFETY 
SPECIFICATION 
1.1 
1.1.1 
Toxicity 
Local Tolerance Studies 
Multiple-dose studies in primates, in which TCZ was given IV in high doses, showed that 
tocilizumab was well tolerated. Additional local IV, SC, or intramuscular tolerance studies 
in rabbits also showed excellent local tolerability of TCZ and its formulation excipients 
(Study TOX00-0032; Study TOX03-0104; Study TOX03-0105; Study TOX03-0106; 
Study 1015671). 
Relevance to human usage: Yes 
Discussion: Tolerance to tocilizumab has been confirmed by clinical data.  
1.1.2 
Reproductive Toxicity Studies and Risk of Abortion 
Tocilizumab was not teratogenic in an embryo-fetal toxicity study (Study TOX00-0012) in 
cynomolgus monkey at a daily dose of 50 mg/kg/day (highest dose) associated with a 
high systemic cumulative exposure of > 100 above the expected human efficacious 
concentration. A higher rate of abortion was however noted in this dose group compared 
with the placebo and other low dose groups. The abortion incidence was within the 
historical background for the cynomolgus monkey in captivity (Boot et al. 1985; Vogel 
 
and Bee 1999; Hendrie et. al. 1996) and the individual cases of abortions/embryo-fetal 
death did not show any consistent relationship to dosing or duration of dosing with 
tocilizumab. IL-6 does not appear to be a critical cytokine for embryo-fetal development 
since IL-6 deficient mice are fertile and their offspring show no abnormal phenotype. In 
addition, the difference in abortion rate in the cynomolgus monkey study was only 
marginally higher in the high dose group compared to the other treatment groups. 
Transfer of a murine analog of tocilizumab into the milk of lactating mice has been 
observed (Report 1003 - RO4877533).  
Preclinical data in mice do not suggest an effect on fertility in mice treated with a mouse 
IL-6R surrogate antibody for tocilizumab (Report 1033493 - RO4877533; Report 
1033494 –  RO4877533). With this antibody, there was also no evidence for IL-6-
inhibition-related effects on pre-natal and postnatal development, including on 
developing immune function in the F1 generation treated transplacentally (Report 
1003492 – RO4877533). Similarly, there were no toxicologically relevant effects noted 
on fertility, pre- and postnatal development, and immune function in a combined fertility 
and pre- and postnatal development study in IL-6 knockout mice (Report 1029892). 
Relevance to human usage: Unknown 
Discussion: Although IL-6 does not seem to be a critical cytokine for either fetal growth 
or the immunological control of the maternal/fetal interface, the relevance of this 
observation for human pregnancy is unknown. However, a possible relation to 
tocilizumab cannot be excluded (Actemra RA Marketing Authorization Application [MAA]; 
EMEA) as preclinical data suggests an increased risk of spontaneous abortion. 
therefore; tocilizumab may represent a potential risk to pregnant women. No teratogenic 
effects have been identified with tocilizumab. 
1.1.3 
Single- and Multiple-Dose Toxicity Studies 
Toxicity studies have shown tocilizumab to be well tolerated in cynomolgus monkeys 
when administered in an IV single dose study up to 100 mg/kg (Study TOX02-0161) 
multiple-dose study up to 50 mg/kg/day for 4 weeks (Study TOX02-0167) or at an IV 
dose of 100 mg/kg/week for 6 months (Study TOX02-0169). Although the exposure in 
these studies exceeds the targeted human average efficacious concentrations by factors 
of 125 (4-week study) or 39 (6-month study), no adverse effects that would be 
considered clinically significant in man were seen in the clinical pathology investigations, 
the histopathological evaluation, or in any additional studies. Because tocilizumab is 
targeted at autoimmune disease, it is important to note that there were no treatment 
effects on the morphology of primary or secondary organs of the immune system. Two 
toxicology findings were observed in these experiments that warranted closer scrutiny. 
These included reductions of ANCs and B-cell counts in the peripheral blood. However, 
analysis showed that the reduction of ANC was mild and not associated with bone 
marrow manifestations or changes in neutrophil function. Similarly, the minor reduction 
in the CD20+ B-cell ratio observed in cynomolgus monkey studies with up to 4-weeks of 
 
exposure was not associated with detectable alterations of the tissue B-cell 
compartments in lymphoid organs. 
Relevance to human usage: Yes 
Discussion: These findings have been adequately addressed in the clinical 
development program.  
1.1.4 
Malignancies 
A carcinogenicity study of tocilizumab has not been conducted. As tocilizumab does not 
bind to rodent IL-6R, conventional long-term carcinogenicity studies in rats or mice are 
thus, inappropriate to assess a function-associated carcinogenic potential of tocilizumab. 
A standard test set of in vitro genotoxicity studies conducted with tocilizumab has shown 
no evidence of genotoxic liabilities (Study TOX02-0172-JITSU97-0035; Study 
TOX02-0171-JITSU97-0086). IgG macromolecules do not penetrate cell walls or cell 
membranes and therefore, do not have direct interactions with cellular DNA. Because of 
this, IgG1 monoclonal antibodies do not have an intrinsic carcinogenic potential, and 
thus, such tests are not considered to be of relevance for a carcinogenic risk 
assessment of antibodies. 
IL-6 is recognized as one of the most potent autocrine growth factors in the 
pathogenesis of numerous cancers, including thyroid carcinomas (Russell et al. 2004) , 
prostate and ovarian cancer (Xiao et al. 2004; Hefler et al. 2003) and, in particular, 
hematologic malignancies such as multiple myeloma (Hilbert et al. 1995; Siegall et 
al.1990). Recently published data further demonstrated the contributing role of the sIL-
6R transignalling in a colon cancer model (Becker et al. 2004; Becker et al. 2005; Landi 
et al. 2003), suggesting that under conditions of chronic inflammation, IL-6 may 
contribute to malignant progression and resistance of various malignancies (through 
activation of gp130), which do not per se express the membrane-bound IL-6 receptor.  
While the direct stimulatory activity of IL-6 has long been recognized, recent studies 
have identified and characterized the role of IL-6 in the regulation of the signal 
transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), its critical role in tumor progression, 
and the negative interference of STAT3-regulated gene products in tumor 
immunosurveillance (Yu 2007). Not only does STAT3, constitutively activated by 
malignant cells, inhibit the expression of mediators necessary for effective immune 
activation against tumor cells, but it also actively promotes the production of 
immunosuppressive factors that lead to a blockade of efficient anti-tumor response in 
situ.  
Recently published data demonstrated that the functional maturation of dendritic cells in 
the tumor environment, which is necessary for an effective activation of an anti-tumor 
response, is blocked by tumor-secreted IL-6 (Park et al. 2004), an effect which 
significantly contributes to the widely observed clinical phenomenon of tumor tolerance 
 
rather than rejection. Conversely, the potential role of IL-6 as a therapeutic anti-tumor 
agent has been shown in a variety of preclinical tumor models although the use of 
recombinant IL-6 in patients was determined to be a multiple myeloma inducing growth 
factor (Mullen et al. 1992; Sun et al. 1992; Abroun et al. 2004; Salazar-Onfray et al. 
2007). 
Consistent with the role of IL-6 in tumor progression, nonclinical pharmacology studies 
conducted with tocilizumab showed clear anti-proliferative effects. These experiments 
demonstrated that tocilizumab inhibits the proliferation of cell lines induced by 
IL-6/sIL-6R complex such as BAF-h130 (Study PHM02-0148) and effectively stops the 
IL-6 dependent growth of human myeloma cell lines in vitro (Study PHM02-0249) and 
KPMM2 tumor cells in vivo (Study PHM04-0089 [J97-0262]). The therapeutic effect of IL-
6 receptor blockage under in vivo conditions was shown in various disease models with 
MR16-1, a rodent-specific analog antibody to tocilizumab. MR16-1 completely prevented 
the lymphoproliferative manifestations in an IL-6 transgenic mouse model of 
Castleman’s Disease (Katsume et al. 2002) and halted the progression of tumor growth 
in a mouse model of colon carcinoma (Becker et al. 2004). 
No lesions with a proliferative characteristic or any other type of pre-neoplastic findings 
have been seen in a cynomolgus monkey study of 6-months, in which the animals were 
continuously exposed to tocilizumab at serum concentrations more than 30-fold above 
the clinical effective serum levels. As suggested by the role of IL-6 in the physiology of 
cell regulation, chronic and complete IL-6 depletion in vivo in IL-6 knockout mice does 
not lead to a higher spontaneous malignancy rate. Reports from experiments conducted 
in aged IL-6 knockout mice are particularly notable, as the life span was not 
compromised nor was there any palpable mass reported in these animals (Gomez et al. 
2006; Dovi et al. 2003), although tissues of these animals were not histopathologically 
screened for the presence of early stage malignant disease. There is no direct evidence 
that tocilizumab would induce malignant transformation. On the contrary, other available 
evidence that IL-6 is a growth factor for tissue maintenance and regeneration under 
conditions of insult (direct damage or inflammation), and in malignant cells, IL-6 per se 
does not seem to disrupt the balance of the immunological control of tumor growth and 
metastasis (immunosurveillance). The nonclinical data suggest an association between 
elevated levels of IL-6 and tissue/tumor growth, but do not suggest that an inhibition of 
the IL-6R signalling pathways via chronic treatment with tocilizumab would lead to an 
increased risk of malignancies in patients. 
Relevance to human usage: Yes 
Discussion:  The risk of malignancy is known to be increased in patients with RA and 
with some treatments commonly used in RA, such as MTX and biologic DMARDs 
(Bongartz et al. 2006). A Food and Drug Administration (FDA) alert was published 
requiring the manufacturers of TNF blockers to update the Boxed Warning in the 
prescribing information to alert healthcare professionals of an increased risk of 
 
lymphoma and other malignancies in children and adolescents treated with TNF 
blockers. EMA 2010 priorities also identified the risk of malignancy as one of the 
potential long-term adverse effects of immunomodulators, including the anti-TNFs, 
rituximab, and tocilizumab. Malignancies are considered an important potential risk 
associated with TCZ use. Refer to Module SVII.3.1 for details.  
1.2 
1.2.1 
General Safety Pharmacology 
Pharmacology Studies 
The cardiovascular safety of tocilizumab has been investigated in a series of rigorously 
designed preclinical in vivo studies. These results indicate that tocilizumab does not 
adversely affect either cardiac integrity or electrophysiology; an alteration of blood 
pressure was also not observed in any of the preclinical studies (Study TOX02-0127; 
Study TOX02-0158). 
Relevance to human usage: No 
Discussion: Tocilizumab has not demonstrated an impact on cardiac integrity or 
electrophysiology in the clinical setting. Cardiovascular concerns are an important 
potential risk because TCZ treatment is associated with increases in LDL cholesterol 
and triglycerides, and RA patients are at increased risk of cardiovascular disease. See 
important potential risk of elevated lipid levels and the potential risk of 
cardiovascular/cerebrovascular events in Module SVII. 3.1. 
1.2.2 
Effects on Bone Turnover and Quality 
IL-6 has been shown to stimulate osteoclast activity and bone resorption by an indirect 
mechanism, increasing interactions between osteoblast and osteoclast activities. The 
effects of IL-6 on bone destruction and the potentially therapeutic benefit on IL-6 
inhibition were studied in an IL-6 transgenic mouse model. IL-6 over expression in 
pre-pubertal mice induced the uncoupling of osteoclast and osteoblast activities which in 
turn manifested as decreased trabecular and cortical bone growth, delayed ossification, 
and impaired skeletal growth (De Benedetti et al. 2006). Other studies in  the transgenic 
juvenile mouse model demonstrated that effective inhibition of IL-6 was able to correct 
the IL-6-induced pathology (De Benedetti et al. 2001).  
While treatment with tocilizumab is expected to block IL-6-induced osteoclastic activities 
and thereby normalize the physiologic process of bone remodelling, there are no 
preclinical data to suggest that IL-6 inhibition per se generates an abnormal imbalance 
of this process. The studies in juvenile animals are also relevant for adults as the fast 
growing body weight at this age requires a constant adaptation of the skeletal system via 
length-growth, increase in bone mass, but also bone shaping and adaptation to the 
constantly changing biomechanical strains. Therefore, studies of this type offer a more 
appropriate means than those in adults of assessing the effect of IL-6 deprivation on 
bone remodelling. The phenotype of these mice did not show any irregularity and 
 
therefore, provides no evidence for an IL-6 deficiency-induced underlying abnormal bone 
remodelling process. Nonclinical safety studies conducted with tocilizumab are in 
concordance with these data, showing that bone morphology was normal in primate 
toxicity studies over a tocilizumab exposure for up to 6 months. The histopathology of 
bone in these young adult animals with ongoing skeletal growth showed no 
morphological/developmental abnormalities. Overall, the preclinical data demonstrate 
that IL-6 is a key regulatory factor in osteoclast activation and contributes to the 
osteopenic manifestations frequently associated with chronic inflammatory diseases. 
Preclinical studies showed that inhibition of IL-6 normalizes inflammation-driven 
osteoclastic bone destruction, and nonclinical safety studies conducted with tocilizumab 
demonstrated that IL-6 inhibition, induced by continuous chronic exposure to 
tocilizumab, maintains a morphologically and functionally normal bone homeostasis.  
Relevance to human usage: Yes 
Discussion: The incident rate of fractures (events per 100 PY) at 1 year in LITHE were 
3.12 (95% CI: 1.35, 6.15) in the placebo group, 2.42 (95% CI: 1.05, 4.8) in the 4 mg/kg 
TCZ group, and 3.72 (95% CI: 1.98, 6.37) in the 8 mg/kg TCZ group. 
1.2.3 
Effects of IL-6 Depletion on Maintenance of Mucosal Integrity 
of the GI Tract 
IL-6 is known to play an important role in maintenance of mucosal integrity and the 
depletion of IL-6 may impede that function (Dann et al. 2008). In IL-6 knockout mice, an 
IL-6 deficiency was found to exacerbate mucosal inflammation and damage caused by 
bacteria and chemical irritants, and in vitro, IL-6 protected colonic epithelial cells against 
inducible apoptosis by increasing expression of anti-apoptotic proteins. Therefore, IL-6 
depletion may be associated with impairment of the maintenance of mucosal integrity. 
On the other hand, the downregulation of IL-6 in animal models of colitis (direct 
chemically-induced colitis and immune-transfer colitis) has been proven to ameliorate 
symptoms and histologic inflammatory consequences of these experimentally induced 
colitis models thus proving a potential benefit of an anti-IL-6R antibody in colitis (Ishiguro 
et al. 2010). 
Relevance to human usage: Yes 
Discussion: Complications of diverticulitis is an identified risk of TCZ use, per data 
obtained in clinical trials. Refer to Module SVII.3.1 for more details.  
1.2.4 
Effects of a Blockage of IL-6 Signaling with a Surrogate 
Antibody in Juvenile Mice 
Effects of a blockage of IL-6 signaling in juvenile animals have been investigated with a 
murine surrogate antibody of tocilizumab, termed MR16-1. MR16-1, a rat anti-mouse 
IL-6R monoclonal antibody (IgG1) has been thoroughly characterized in pharmacologic 
models as a suitable rodent analog of human anti-IL-6 antibodies. For this safety 
 
assessment purpose, juvenile mice were treated once every 3 days from weaning 
(postnatal Day 22) until sexual maturation (postnatal Day 79). Effects of MR16-1 were 
investigated on postnatal development and growth, immune system, skeletal 
development, and sexual maturation after IV administration of MR16-1 in juvenile mice. 
Toxicokinetic investigations yielded evidence that the study was done under full 
blockage of IL-6 signalling. The observation of anti-drug antibodies did not impair the 
assessment. 
No adverse effects were observed in body weight, food consumption, hematology, 
necropsy, organ weights, or histopathology in any treatment group during dosing or 
recovery period.  
With respect to immune system in juvenile animals, there were no adverse effects in 
immunocompetence, NK cell activities in any treatment group. The following results were 
obtained: 50- and 15-mg/kg groups, a decrease in CD3e+CD4+CD8a− ratio and 
peripheral blood count in males and females at end of the dosing period; decrease in 
CD3e+ ratio and count; increase in CD3e+CD4+CD8a− ratio and peripheral blood count in 
males and females and increase in CD49b/Pan-NK cells+CD3e− ratio in females in the 
50-mg/kg group at end of the recovery period, was observed. These changes are 
considered to have a minor impact on the immune system, since no adverse effects on 
immunocompetence (serum IgG and IgM production to KLH) was observed in any 
treatment group.  
With respect to sexual maturation and skeletal development in juvenile animals, there 
were no adverse effects in the morphological differentiation of external genitalia, estrous 
cycle, sperm examination, crown-rump length, or skeletal development in any treatment 
group. 
From these study results, it is concluded that MR16-1 did not induce any toxicologically 
meaningful changes on postnatal development, growth, immune system, skeletal 
development, or sexual maturation in juvenile animals. 
Relevance to human usage: No 
Discussion:  The applicability of these results to humans is limited because they were 
conducted with a murine surrogate antibody.  
 
PART II: MODULE SIII - CLINICAL TRIAL EXPOSURE 
Overview of Exposure Tables 
Table 1 to Table 18 present patient exposure for the All Exposure Population, this 
includes any patients who have received at least one dose of TCZ in clinical trials (prior 
to marketing authorization approval) for the following indications: Adult RA, sJIA, pJIA, 
GCA, and COVID-19.  
Overview of Clinical Studies used for TCZ Exposure  
Study 
Adult RA 
 Indication 
Intravenous Administration 
WA17822 
WA17823 
WA18063 
WA17824 
WA18062 
WP18663 
WA18695 
WA18696 
WA19924 
WA22762  
Adult Early RA  WA19926 
WA18221 
NP25737 
WA19977 
WA42380 (COVACTA) 
ML42528 (EMPACTA) 
WA42511 (REMDACTA) 
COVID-19 
pJIA 
sJIA 
Subcutaneous Administration 
RA 
GCA 
pJIA 
sJIA 
WA22762 
NA25220 
WA28119 
WA28117 
WA29231  
WA28118 
WA29231  
Data Cut Used for This RMP 
2 May 2012 
12 October 2012 
Final CSR (Week 104)  
Week 104 CSR 
Final CSR (Week 52) 
Week 40 CSR 
Final CSR (Day 60)  
Final CSR (Day 60) 
Final CSR (Day 60) 
12 October 2012 
29 October 2012 
Primary Analysis CSR (Week 52) 
Final CSR (Week 52)  
17 July 2016 
Final CSR (Week 52) 
11 August 2017 
COVID-19 = coronavirus disease 2019; GCA = giant cell arteritis; pJIA = polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis; RA = rheumatoid arthritis; sJIA = systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis; TCZ = 
tocilizumab. 
Extent of Exposure (days) is calculated by summing the actually received infusions + up 
to 28 days per infusion (for IV, depending on whether TCZ was given once every 2 
weeks (Q2W) or once every 4 weeks [Q4W]) and by summing the actually received 
injections + up to 21 days per injection (for SC, depending on whether TCZ was given 
once weekly (QW), once every 10 days (Q10D), Q2W or once every 3 weeks [Q3W]); to 
obtain duration of exposure by month this value was then divided by 28 (as a month was 
 
 
 
defined as 28 days for the purpose of analysis). Note: for COVID-19, the extent of 
exposure to TCZ is 28 days for all patients, apart from those who have a death recorded, 
for whom exposure is calculated as date of death – date of first dose administered +1 
day or 28 days, whichever is less. Exposure in months is calculated in the same way as 
above. Patients are only counted in the age, sex, race, and special population outputs if 
they have provided a response, which allows them to be assigned to a category in the 
table. It should be noted that in the tables below, all values of person time have the unit 
PY, and the value “persons” denotes number (n) of patients. Person time was calculated 
by summing each patient exposure in days and dividing by 365.25. Minor variations up 
to 1 PY may be observed between the tables due to rounding differences. Table 1 and 
Table 2 provide a summary of duration of exposure by indication for the IV and SC 
formulation, in number of patients and by person time, for the patients in the clinical 
studies.  
Table 1  Duration of IV Exposure by Indication 
Duration of Exposure 
Adult RA  
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
16 - ≤ 18 months 
19 - ≤ 21 months 
22 - ≤ 24 months 
25 - ≤ 27 months 
28 - ≤ 30 months 
31 - ≤ 33 months 
34 - ≤ 36 months 
37 - ≤ 39 months 
40 - ≤ 42 months 
43 - ≤ 45 months 
46 - ≤ 48 months 
49 - ≤ 51 months 
52 - ≤ 54 months 
55 - ≤ 57 months 
58 - ≤ 60 months 
61 - ≤ 63 months 
64 - ≤ 66 months 
67 - ≤ 69 months 
70 - ≤ 72 months 
73 - ≤ 75 months 
76 - ≤ 78 months 
79 - ≤ 81 months 
82 - ≤ 84 months 
Total  
Adult Early RA (WA19926) 
 ≤ 3 months 
Person (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
303 
556 
157 
151 
137 
224 
181 
149 
71 
45 
51 
47 
51 
57 
58 
86 
129 
123 
147 
285 
467 
547 
382 
430 
10 
5 
3 
1 
4853 
64 
45.7 
231.7 
93.7 
125.1 
144.3 
289.5 
273.2 
258.7 
139.1 
98.3 
122.8 
124.2 
146.6 
177.6 
193.5 
305.5 
491.3 
494.8 
626.7 
1280.8 
2208.4 
2698.4 
1981 
2318.6 
56.2 
29.4 
18.4 
6.2 
14979.7 
10.1 
 
7 
2 
4 
7 
8 
5 
15 
32 
43 
123 
0.8 
0.7 
2.3 
5.9 
8.2 
6.5 
23.3 
55.6 
82.7 
186 
Person (n) 
52 
52 
237 
471 
876 
Person Time (PY) 
19.3 
31.1 
206.8 
461.1 
728.4 
Duration of Exposure 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
Total  
sJIA 
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
16 - ≤ 18 months 
19 - ≤ 21 months 
22 - ≤ 24 months 
25 - ≤ 27 months 
Total  
pJIA 
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
16 - ≤ 18 months 
19 - ≤ 21 months 
22 - ≤ 24 months 
Total  
COVID-19  
≤ 3 months  
Total 
COVID-19 = coronavirus disease 2019; GCA = giant cell arteritis; IV = intravenous; pJIA = 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; RA = rheumatoid arthritis;sJIA = systemic juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis; TCZ = tocilizumab 
Notes: Patients are only assigned to the max duration category; they are not counted in 
previous duration categories. 
Patient exposure is rounded up to the next month before it is categorized. A month is 
considered as 28 days. 
Duration of exposure is rounded up to the next month. 
Source : L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, WA22762/Stmt_exp_rmp_dur.out 
WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, 
WA19926/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, NP25737/STmt_exp_rmp_dur_SA966_SE.out 
t_dur_rmp_wa42380_SETCZ 
t_ex_dur_rmp_ml42528_SETCZ 
t_ex_dur_rmp_wa42511_SETCZ 
1.4 
10.1 
11.4 
27 
27.7 
33.2 
44.7 
28.6 
184.1 
8 
29 
19 
32 
27 
26 
30 
17 
188 
68.1 
68.1 
974 
974 
 
Table 2  Duration of SC Exposure by Indication (RA, GCA, pJIA, and sJIA) 
Duration of Exposure 
Number of Patients  
Person Years of Exposure (PY) 
RA 
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
16 - ≤ 18 months 
19 - ≤ 21 months 
22 - ≤ 24 months 
Total  
GCA 
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
Total  
pJIA 
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
16 - ≤ 18 months 
19 - ≤ 21 months 
22 - ≤ 24 months 
25 - ≤ 27 months 
28 - ≤ 30 months 
31 - ≤ 33 months 
34 - ≤ 36 months 
37 - ≤ 39 months 
Total 
125 
120 
109 
149 
315 
297 
178 
85 
1378 
8 
10 
6 
4 
121 
149 
0 
1 
4 
2 
6 
4 
5 
6 
1 
2 
5 
13 
3 
52 
19.4 
46.2 
63.9 
122.2 
325.8 
374.9 
265.1 
146.4 
1364.2 
1.0 
3.8 
3.5 
3.4 
118.6 
130.1 
0 
0.5 
2.3 
1.8 
5.9 
5.1 
7.5 
9.9 
2 
4.3 
11.9 
34 
8.4 
93.6 
 
Duration of Exposure 
sJIA 
Number of Patients  
Person Years of Exposure (PY) 
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
16 - ≤ 18 months 
19 - ≤ 21 months 
22 - ≤ 24 months 
25 - ≤ 27 months 
28 - ≤ 30 months 
31 - ≤ 33 months 
34 - ≤ 36 months 
37 - ≤ 39 months 
40 - ≤ 42 months 
43 - ≤ 45 months 
46 - ≤ 48 months 
49 - ≤ 51 months 
4 
1 
3 
1 
11 
5 
2 
7 
0 
1 
0 
1 
2 
4 
3 
3 
3 
0.4 
0.2 
1.8 
0.8 
11.2 
6.3 
3.2 
11.8 
0 
2.3 
0 
2.6 
5.6 
12.4 
10.1 
10.6 
11.3 
51 
90.5 
Total 
GCA = giant cell arteritis; pJIA = polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; RA = rheumatoid 
arthritis; sJIA = systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
Notes: Patients are only assigned to the max duration category; they are not counted in 
previous duration categories. 
Patient exposure is rounded up to the next month before it is categorized. A month is 
considered as 28 days. 
Source: WA22762 /STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, NA25220/Stmt_exp_rmp_dur_SA978.out,  
WA28119/STmt_exp_rmp_dur_all_ah128 WA28117 + WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, 
WA28118 + WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out _SE.out,  
Table 3 and Table 4 provide an overall summary of duration of exposure in months, by 
number of patients and by person time, for the IV and SC formulations, for all patients in 
the studied populations.  
 
 
 
Table 3  Duration of IV Exposure (Total) 
Total Exposure 
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
16 - ≤ 18 months 
19 - ≤ 21 months 
22 - ≤ 24 months 
25 - ≤ 27 months 
28 - ≤ 30 months 
31 - ≤ 33 months 
34 - ≤ 36 months 
37 - ≤ 39 months 
40 - ≤ 42 months 
43 - ≤ 45 months 
46 - ≤ 48 months 
49 - ≤ 51 months 
52 - ≤ 54 months 
55 - ≤ 57 months 
58 - ≤ 60 months 
61 - ≤ 63 months 
64 - ≤ 66 months 
67 - ≤ 69 months 
70 - ≤ 72 months 
73 - ≤ 75 months 
76 - ≤ 78 months 
79 - ≤ 81 months 
82 - ≤ 84 months 
Total 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
1356 
639 
232 
427 
643 
255 
226 
198 
114 
45 
51 
47 
51 
57 
58 
86 
129 
123 
147 
285 
467 
547 
382 
430 
10 
5 
3 
1 
126.1 
261.8 
138.5 
364.8 
641.3 
329.2 
341.2 
342.9 
221.8 
98.3 
122.8 
124.2 
146.6 
177.6 
193.5 
305.5 
491.3 
494.8 
626.7 
1280.8 
2208.4 
2698.4 
1981 
2318.6 
56.2 
29.4 
18.4 
6.2 
7014 
16146.3 
IV = intravenous 
Notes: Patients are only assigned to the max duration category; they are not counted in 
previous duration categories. 
Patient exposure is rounded up to the next month before it is categorized. A month is 
considered as 28 days. 
 
 
 
Table 4  Duration of SC Exposure (Total) 
Total Exposure 
 ≤ 3 months 
4- ≤ 6 months 
7 - ≤ 9 months 
10 - ≤ 12 months 
13 - ≤ 15 months 
16 - ≤ 18 months 
19 - ≤ 21 months 
22 - ≤ 24 months 
25 - ≤ 27 months 
28 - ≤ 30 months 
31 - ≤ 33 months 
34 - ≤ 36 months 
37 - ≤ 39 months 
40 - ≤ 42 months 
43 - ≤ 45 months 
46 - ≤ 48 months 
49 - ≤ 51 months 
Total  
Number of Patients  
Person Years of 
Exposure (PY) 
137 
132 
122 
156 
453 
306 
185 
98 
1 
3 
5 
14 
5 
4 
3 
3 
3 
20.8 
50.7 
71.5 
128.2 
461.5 
386.3 
275.8 
168.1 
2 
6.6 
11.9 
36.6 
14 
12.4 
10.1 
10.6 
11.3 
1630 
1678.4 
SC = subcutaneous 
Notes: Patients are only assigned to the max duration category; they are not counted in 
previous duration categories. 
Patient exposure is rounded up to the next month before it is categorized. A month is 
considered as 28 days. 
Table 5 and Table 6 provide an overview of duration of exposure by indication, for IV 
and SC formulations, by the dose level received, for all patients in the studied 
populations. Table 5 includes all dose levels that an individual patient may have 
received.  
 
 
 
Table 5  Exposure of IV Dose (by Indication) 
Dosing Regimen 
Persons (n) 
Person time (PY) 
Adult RA 
TCZ 4 mg/kg Q4W 
TCZ 8 mg/kg Q4W 
TCZ 10 mg/kg Q4W 
Total  
Adult Early RA (WA19926) 
TCZ 4 mg/kg Q4W 
TCZ 8 mg/kg Q4W 
Total  
sJIA   
TCZ 8 mg/kg Q2W 
TCZ 12 mg/kg Q2W 
Total  
pJIA 
TCZ 8 mg/kg Q4W 
TCZ 10 mg/kg Q4W 
Total 
COVID-19  
TCZ 8 mg/kg - 1 or 2 doses 
1591 
4711 
23 
4853* 
295 
583 
876* 
72 
71 
123* 
160 
38 
188* 
974 
1133.8 
13844 
1.8 
14979.6 
241.9 
486.5 
728.4 
98.9 
87 
186 
153.3 
30.8 
184.1 
68.1 
974 
68.1 
Total 
COVID-19 = coronavirus disease 2019; GCA = giant cell arteritis; IV = intravenous; 
pJIA=polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; Q2W = once every 2 weeks; Q4W = once 
every 4 weeks; RA=rheumatoid arthritis; sJIA=systematic juvenile idiopathic arthritis; 
TCZ=tocilizumab. 
Notes: 
*Total is less than the sum of patients receiving each dose as some patients received 
multiple doses. 
Patients can be included in more than one category, if they receive more than one dose at 
any time during the study. 
Source:  
L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out 
WA19926/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, NP25737/STmt_exp_rmp_dur_SA966_SE.out 
t_dose_rmp_wa42380_SETCZ 
t_ex_dose_rmp_ml42528_SETCZ 
t_ex_dose_rmp_wa42511_SETCZ 
 
 
 
Table 6  Exposure of SC Dosing Regimen (by Indication) 
Dosing Regimen 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
Adult RA 
TCZ SC 162 mg QW 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q2W 
Total  
GCA 
TCZ SC 162 mg QW 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q2W 
Total  
pJIA 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q2W 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q3W 
Total  
sJIA 
TCZ SC 162 mg QW 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q10D 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q2W 
820 
558 
1378 
100 
49 
149 
29 
27 
52* 
30 
8 
22 
908.7 
455.5 
1364.2 
86.4 
43.7 
130.1 
49.2 
44.4 
93.6 
58.6 
11.3 
20.6 
51 
90.5 
Total  
GCA = giant cell arteritis; pJIA = polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; QW = once 
weekly; Q2W = once every 2 weeks; Q10D = once every 10 days; RA = rheumatoid 
arthritis; SC = subcutaneous; sJIA = systematic juvenile idiopathic arthritis; 
TCZ=tocilizumab. 
Notes:  
*Total is less than the sum of patients receiving each dose as some patients received 
multiple doses 
Patients can be included in more than one category, if they receive more than one dose at 
any time during the study. 
Source: WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, NA25520/Stmt_exp_rmp_dur_SA978.out, 
WA28119/STmt_exp_rmp_dur_all_ah128_SE.out, WA28117 + 
WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, WA28118 + WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 includes all dose levels that an individual patient may have received.  
Table 7  Exposure of IV Dose (Total) 
Dosing Regimen  
Total Exposure 
TCZ 4 mg/kg Q4W 
TCZ 8 mg/kg Q4W or Q2W 
TCZ 8 mg/kg one dose or two 
doses 
TCZ 10 mg/kg Q4W 
TCZ 12 mg/kg Q2W 
Total  
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
1886 
5526 
974 
61 
71 
8518* 
1375.7 
14582.7 
68.1 
32.6 
87 
16146.1 
IV = intravenous; Q2W = twice weekly; Q4W = four times weekly; TCZ = tocilizumab. 
* Some patients received multiple doses and were counted under each dosing regimen and 
so the total is greater than the number of individual patients. Patients can be included in 
more than one category, if they receive more than one dose at any time during the study. 
Source: L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out 
WA19926/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, NP25737/STmt_exp_rmp_dur_SA966_SE.out 
t_dose_rmp_wa42380_SETCZ 
t_ex_dose_rmp_ml42528_SETCZ  
t_ex_dose_rmp_wa42511_SETCZ  
Table 8  Exposure of SC Dose (Total) 
Dosing Regimen  
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
TCZ SC 162 mg QW 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q10D 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q2W 
TCZ SC 162 mg Q3W 
Total 
950 
8 
658 
27 
1630* 
1053.7 
11.3 
569 
44.4 
1678.4 
PY = person years; QW = once weekly; Q2W = once every 2 weeks; Q3W = once every 3 
weeks; Q10D = once every 10 days; SC = subcutaneous; TCZ = tocilizumab. 
Note: Patients can be included in more than one category, if they receive more than one 
dose at any time during the study 
Source: WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, NA25220/STmt_exp_rmp_dur_SA978.out 
i28119a/STmt_exp_rmp_dur_all_ah128_SE.out, WA28117 + 
WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out, WA28118 + WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_dur.out 
Table 9 and Table 10 provide an overview of number of patients exposed by indication, 
age group, and sex, in number of patients and person time, for the patients in the clinical 
studies.  
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 9  Exposure by Age and Sex (by IV Indication) 
Age Group (years) 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 
Adult RA 
≥18< 50 
 ≥ 50<65 
 ≥ 65<75 
 ≥ 75 
Total  
Adult Early RA (WA19926) 
≥18< 50 
 ≥ 50<65 
 ≥ 65<75 
 ≥ 75 
Total  
 sJIA 
< 2 
 ≥ 2 < 5  
 ≥ 5 < 12  
 ≥ 12 < 18  
Total  
pJIA 
 ≥ 2 < 5  
 ≥ 5 < 12  
 ≥ 12 < 18  
Total  
297 
413 
149 
20 
879 
75 
89 
24 
11 
199 
4 
9 
27 
20 
60 
2 
21 
21 
44 
1579 
1768 
510 
117 
3974 
315 
280 
69 
13 
677 
7 
12 
22 
22 
63 
12 
66 
66 
144 
924.7 
1303.1 
397.3 
42.8 
5052.8 
5606.1 
1400.6 
252 
2667.9 
12311.5 
59.8 
73 
20.5 
8.7 
161.9 
2.1 
13.5 
43.1 
31.1 
89.8 
0.8 
16.3 
19.6 
36.7 
259.9 
240.4 
56.6 
9.5 
566.5 
3.5 
19.8 
37.2 
35.7 
96.2 
9.3 
70 
68.2 
147.4 
 
  
Age Group (years) 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 
COVID-19 
≥18< 50 
 ≥ 50< 65 
 ≥ 65< 75 
 ≥ 75 
153 
239 
155 
75 
86 
121 
95 
50 
11.3 
17.5 
10.1 
4.5 
6.4 
8.9 
6.4 
3.0 
622 
352 
43.4 
Total  
COVID-19 = coronavirus disease 2019; GCA = giant cell arteritis; pJIA=polyarticular 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis; RA=rheumatoid arthritis; sJIA=systematic juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis. 
Source: L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_age.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out 
WA19926/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, NP25737/STmt_exp_rmp_sex_SA966_SE.out 
t_age_sex_rmp_wa42380_SETCZ 
t_ex_age_sex_rmp_ml42528_SETCZ 
t_ex_age_sex_rmp_wa42511_SETCZ 
24.7 
 
  
 
Table 10   Exposure by Age and Sex (by SC Indication) 
Age Group (years) 
Number of Patients 
Patient Year (PY) 
Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 
Adult RA 
≥18< 50 
 ≥ 50<65 
 ≥ 65<75 
 ≥ 75 
Total  
GCA 
≥18< 50 
 ≥ 50<65 
 ≥ 65<75 
 ≥ 75 
Total  
pJIA 
< 2  
 ≥ 2 < 5  
 ≥ 5 < 12 
 ≥ 12 < 18  
Total 
sJIA 
< 2  
 ≥ 2 < 5 
 ≥ 5 < 12  
 ≥ 12 < 18 
Total 
67 
115 
40 
8 
230 
0 
10 
15 
12 
37 
0 
2 
8 
6 
16 
1 
3 
10 
8 
22 
436 
537 
153 
22 
1148 
0 
39 
41 
32 
112 
1 
5 
15 
15 
36 
2 
5 
10 
12 
29 
63.8 
115.1 
37.2 
8.2 
224.3 
0.0 
9.3 
13.2 
9.0 
31.4 
0 
1.6 
14.4 
11.3 
27.3 
2.3 
3.3 
16.6 
14.0 
36.2 
437.2 
525.4 
153.3 
24.1 
1140 
0.0 
37.2 
34.8 
26.7 
98.7 
2.8 
8.6 
28.9 
26.0 
66.3 
2.7 
8.2 
16.5 
26.9 
54.3 
GCA = giant cell arteritis; pJIA=polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; RA=rheumatoid 
arthritis; sJIA=systematic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
Note: Extent of Exposure = Sum of actually received injections + up to 14 days per 
injection. 
Source: WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, NA25220/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, 
WA28119/STmt_exp_rmp_age_all_ah128_SE.out, WA28117 + 
WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA28118 + WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out 
Table 11 and Table 12 provides an overall summary of total number of patients by age 
group and gender, for IV and SC formulations, in number of patients and person time, for 
the patients in the clinical studies.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11  Exposure by Age and Sex (IV Total) 
Age Group 
(years) 
< 2  
≥ 2 < 5 
≥ 5 < 12  
≥ 12 < 18  
≥ 18< 50 
≥ 50< 65 
≥ 65< 75 
≥ 75 
4 
11 
48 
41 
525 
741 
328 
106 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
Male 
Female 
7 
24 
88 
88 
1980 
2169 
674 
180 
5210 
Male 
2.1 
14.3 
59.4 
50.7 
995.8 
1393.6 
427.9 
56.0 
2999.8 
Female 
3.5 
29.1 
107.2 
103.9 
5319.1 
5855.4 
1463.6 
264.5 
13146.3 
Total 
1804 
Source: L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_age.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out 
WA19926/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, NP25737/STmt_exp_rmp_sex_SA966_SE.out 
t_age_sex_rmp_wa42380_SETCZ 
t_ex_age_sex_rmp_ml42528_SETCZ 
t_ex_age_sex_rmp_wa42511_SETCZ 
Table 12  Exposure by Age and Sex (SC Total) 
Age Group (years) 
Number of Patients (n) 
Person Years of Exposure 
(PY) 
Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 
< 2  
 ≥ 2 < 5  
 ≥ 5 < 12  
 ≥ 12 < 18  
≥18< 50 
 ≥ 50<65 
 ≥ 65<75 
 ≥ 75 
Total  
1 
5 
18 
14 
67 
125 
55 
20 
305 
3 
10 
25 
27 
436 
576 
194 
54 
1325 
2.3 
4.9 
31 
25.3 
63.8 
124.4 
50.4 
 17.2 
319.3 
5.5 
16.8 
45.4 
52.9 
437.2 
562.6 
188.1 
50.8 
1359.3 
Source: L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_age.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out 
WA28119/STmt_exp_rmp_age_all_ah128_SE.out, WA28117 + 
WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA28118 + WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 and Table 14 provide an overview of exposure of patients by ethnic and racial 
origin, for IV and SC formulations, by indication, in number of patients and person time, 
for the patients in the clinical studies.  
Table 13  Exposure by Ethnic/Racial Origin (IV; by Indication) 
Ethnic/Racial Origin 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
Adult RA 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
Adult Early RA (WA19926) 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
sJIA 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
pJIA 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
COVID-19 
White 
Asian 
3635 
350 
306 
211 
351 
4853 
673 
67 
17 
23 
96 
876 
108 
1 
2 
2 
10 
123 
150 
3 
1 
4 
30 
188 
591 
51 
10923.6 
1300.2 
1061.1 
596.1 
1098.4 
14979.4 
555.9 
56.3 
14.4 
17.0 
84.8 
728.4 
164.6 
0.1 
2.9 
1.9 
16.4 
186 
147.4 
3.7 
1.5 
4.0 
27.5 
184.1 
41.2 
3.8 
 
Ethnic/Racial Origin 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
American Indian Or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
63 
127 
142 
974 
4.5 
8.6 
9.8 
67.9 
COVID-19 = coronavirus disease 2019; GCA = giant cell arteritis; pJIA=polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis; RA=rheumatoid arthritis; sJIA=systematic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
Source: L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_race.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out 
WA19926/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, NP25737/STmt_exp_rmp_sex_SA966_SE.out 
t_race_rmp_wa42380_SETCZ 
t_ex_race_rmp_ml42528_SETCZ 
t_ex_race_rmp_wa42511_SETCZ 
 
 
Table 14  Exposure by Ethnic/Racial Origin (SC; by Indication) 
Ethnic/Racial Origin 
Number of Patients (n) 
Person Years of 
Exposure (PY) 
Adult RA 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
GCA 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Unknown 
Total 
pJIA 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
sJIA 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
1034 
54 
34 
66 
190 
1378 
143 
1 
0 
1 
2 
2 
149 
47 
0 
0 
0 
5 
52 
41 
1 
1 
1 
7 
51 
1022.1 
67 
39.9 
62.6 
172.5 
1364.1 
126.2 
0.6 
0.0 
1.0 
1.1 
1.2 
130.1 
85.9 
0 
0 
0 
7.7 
93.6 
73.1 
3.3 
1.6 
2.6 
9.8 
90.5 
GCA = giant cell arteritis; pJIA=polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; RA=rheumatoid 
arthritis; sJIA=systematic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
Source: WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, NA25520/Stmt_exp_rmp_race.out,  
WA28119/STmt_exp_rmp_rac_all_ah128_SE.out, WA28117 + 
WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, WA28118 + WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 and Table 16 provides an overall summary of exposure of patients by ethnic 
and racial origin, for IV and SC formulations, in number of patients and person time, for 
the patients in the clinical studies. 
Table 15  Exposure by Ethnic/Racial Origin (Total IV; All Indications) 
Ethnic/Racial Origin 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
Total Exposure 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Total 
5157 
472 
389 
367 
719 
7014 
11832.7 
1364 
1084.4 
627.6 
1236.9 
16145.6 
IV = intravenous 
Source: L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_race.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out; 
WA19926/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, NP25737/STmt_exp_rmp_sex_SA966_SE.out 
t_race_rmp_wa42380_SETCZ 
t_ex_race_rmp_ml42528_SETCZ 
t_ex_race_rmp_wa42511_SETCZ 
Table 16  Exposure by Ethnic/Racial Origin (Total SC, All Indications) 
Ethnic/Racial Origin 
Number of Patients  
Person Years of Exposure 
(PY) 
Total Exposure 
White 
Asian 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Black 
Other 
Unknown 
Total 
1265 
56 
35 
68 
204 
2 
1630 
1307.3 
70.9 
41.5 
66.2 
191.1 
1.2 
1678.2 
SC = subcutaneous 
Source: WA22762/Stmt_exp_rmp_race.out, NA25220/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, 
W28119/STmt_exp_rmp_rac_all_ah128_SE.out, WA28117 + 
WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out, WA28118 + WA29231/STmt_exp_rmp_race.out 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17 and Table 18 present exposure by indication, in number of patients and 
person time, for IV and SC formulations, for the special populations in the clinical 
studies. It should be noted that, with the exception of WA42380 (to exclude only patients 
with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) >10 x upper 
limit of normal (ULN)), ML42528, and WA42511 (to exclude only patients with ALT or 
AST >5 x ULN), patients with a history of liver impairment, defined as current ALT or 
AST elevations >1.5 ULN, positive hepatitis BsAg or hepatitis C antibody, or total 
bilirubin > ULN, were excluded from the Roche studies. Patients with renal impairment, 
defined as patients with elevated serum creatinine (>124 µmol/L in female patients 
and >141 µmol/L in male patients) were also excluded from the Roche studies. For 
these reasons, data from such patients are available for inclusion in Table 17 only from 
WA42380, ML42528, and WA42511 (patients with eGFR <30 mL/min were excluded in 
WA42511).  
Table 17  Exposure Special Population (by IV Indication) 
Special Population 
Adult RA 
Pregnant women 
Elderly ( ≥ 75 years old) 
Renal impairment 
Liver impairment 
Total 
Adult Early RA  
Pregnant women 
Elderly ( ≥ 75 years old) 
Renal impairment 
Liver impairment 
Total 
sJIA 
Pregnant women 
Renal impairment 
Liver impairment 
Total 
pJIA 
Pregnant women 
Renal impairment 
Liver impairment 
Total 
COVID-19 
Elderly (≥ 75 years old) 
Pregnant women 
Renal impairment 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
48 
137 
0 
0 
185 
7 
24 
0 
0 
31 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
125 
0 
152 
129.9 
294.8 
0 
0 
424.7 
4.2 
18.2 
0 
0 
22.4 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
7.7 
0 
9.6 
 
 
Special Population 
Liver impairment 
Cardiac impairment 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
24 
221 
1.8 
14.5 
391* 
25.8* 
Total 
COVID-19 = coronavirus disease 2019; IV = intravenous; pJIA=polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis; RA=rheumatoid arthritis; sJIA=systematic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
Notes:  
* Total is less than the sum of patients/PYs in each special population as patients could be 
counted under multiple categories. 
Pregnancy defined by the preferred terms with a primary SOC of Pregnancy, Puerperium, 
and Perinatal Conditions or Terms included in the High-Level Term of Induced Abortion. 
Pregnancy could also be collected from a positive pregnancy test. 
Renal, Hepatic and Cardiac Impairment defined as MedDRA basket ‘PBRER SD AE Terms 
Suggesting {Renal/Hepatic/Cardiac} Impairment’ respectively. 
Patients with a history of liver impairment, current  ALT or AST elevations >1.5 upper limit of 
normal (ULN), positive hepatitis BsAg or hepatitis C antibody, or total bilirubin > ULN were 
previously excluded from the Roche studies; however, exclusion criteria were updated for 
Study WA42380 (to exclude only patients with ALT or AST >10 x ULN) and for studies 
ML42528 and WA42511 (to exclude only patients with ALT or AST >5 x ULN). 
Patients with renal impairment: patients with elevated serum creatinine (>124 µmol/L in 
female patients and >141 µmol/L in male patients) were previously excluded from the 
Roche studies; however, exclusion criteria were updated for Studies WA42380, ML42528, 
and WA42511 (please note that patients with eGFR <30 mL/min were excluded in 
WA42511).  
Source: L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_prg.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_prg.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_prg.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_prg.out, 
L11935E/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA18221/Stmt_exp_rmp_age.out, 
WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, WA19977/STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, 
WA19926/STmt_exp_rmp_prg.out 
t_speclpop_rmp_wa42380_SETCZ 
t_ex_speclpop_rmp_ml42528_SETCZ 
t_ex_speclpop_rmp_wa42511_SETCZ 
Note that data on pregnant patients were obtained from patients who became pregnant 
after entering Roche clinical studies and who were subsequently discontinued from the 
study per protocol. 
 
 
 
Table 18  Exposure Special Population (by SC) 
Special Population 
Persons (n) 
Person Time (PY) 
Adult RA 
Pregnant women 
Elderly ( ≥ 75 years old) 
Renal impairment 
Liver impairment 
Total 
GCA 
Pregnant women 
Elderly ( ≥ 75 years old) 
Renal impairment 
Liver impairment 
Total 
pJIA 
Pregnant women 
Renal impairment 
Liver impairment 
Total 
sJIA 
Pregnant women 
Renal impairment 
Liver impairment 
5 
30 
0 
0 
35 
0 
44 
0 
0 
44 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2.7 
32.3 
0 
0 
35 
0 
35.7 
0 
0 
35.7 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Total 
0 
GCA = giant cell arteritisa; pJIA=polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; RA=rheumatoid 
arthritis; SC = subcutaneous; sJIA=systematic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
Notes: Pregnancy defined by the preferred terms with a primary SOC of Pregnancy, 
Puerperium, and Perinatal Conditions or Terms included in the High-Level Term of Induced 
Abortion. Pregnancy could also be collected from a positive pregnancy test. 
Patients with a history of liver impairment , current ALT or AST elevations >1.5 upper limit of 
normal (ULN), positive hepatitis BsAg or hepatitis C antibody, or total bilirubin > ULN were 
excluded from the Roche studies.  
Patients with renal impairment: patients with elevated serum creatinine (>124 µmol/L in 
female patients and >141 µmol/L in male patients) were excluded from the Roche studies.  
Source: WA22762/STmt_exp_rmp_prg.out, NA25220/Stmt_exp_rmp_prg.out, 
WA22762//STmt_exp_rmp_age.out, NA25220/Stmt_exp_rmp_age.out, 
i28119a/STmt_exp_rmp_age_all_ah128_SE.out 
Note that data on pregnant patients werer obtained from patients who became pregnant 
after entering Roche clinical studies and who were subsequently discontinued from the 
study per protocol.  
 
 
 
PART II: MODULE SIV - POPULATIONS NOT STUDIED IN CLINICAL TRIALS 
SIV.1 Exclusion Criteria in Pivotal Clinical Studies Within the Development Program 
Table 19  Important Exclusion Criteria in Pivotal Studies in the Development Program 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
To ensure general safety of patients 
with known severe hypersensitivity to 
monoclonal antibodies when treated 
with TCZ. 
Patients with a history of recurring or 
chronic infections or with active 
underlying conditions, may potentially 
be predisposed to infections when 
exposed to TCZ.  
To ensure general safety of patients 
to be treated with TCZ in the clinical 
trial setting. 
Is it to be included 
as missing 
information? 
(Yes/No) 
Rationale 
No 
Hypersensitivity is contraindicated in the SmPC. 
No 
No 
For RA, sJIA, pJIA, and CRS, active severe 
infections are contraindicated in the SmPC. 
Patients with COVID-19 who simultaneously 
also have other, serious active infections are 
contraindicated in the SmPC 
There is no data to suggest that TCZ has an 
effect on pulmonary, renal, or endocrine 
function. 
Active hepatic disease/hepatic impairment, 
neurological disorders, cardiovascular risk, and 
complications of diverticulitis are listed as 
special warnings and precautions in the SmPC. 
Potential for patients to be unable to 
adhere to study protocol. Oral steroids 
had to remain stable and parenteral 
No 
This exclusion criterion was not related to the 
safety of the patient population 
Severe allergic or 
anaphylactic reactions 
Active severe infections 
Current or previous (within 
the past 2 years) evidence 
of serious uncontrolled 
concomitant 
cardiovascular, nervous 
system, pulmonary 
(including obstructive 
pulmonary disease), renal, 
hepatic, endocrine 
(including uncontrolled 
diabetes mellitus) or 
gastrointestinal disease. 
Uncontrolled disease 
states, such as asthma or 
inflammatory bowel 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Is it to be included 
as missing 
information? 
(Yes/No) 
Rationale 
steroids were prohibited in TCZ RA 
clinical trials to enable accurate 
assessment of TCZ efficacy. 
To ensure general safety of patients 
to be treated with TCZ in the clinical 
trial setting 
disease where flares are 
commonly treated with oral 
or parenteral 
corticosteroids. 
History of diverticulitis, 
diverticulosis requiring 
antibiotic treatment, or 
chronic ulcerative lower GI 
disease such as Crohn’s 
disease, ulcerative colitis, 
or other symptomatic lower 
GI conditions that might 
predispose to perforations 
Current liver disease as 
determined by the 
investigator. 
To ensure general safety of patients 
to be treated with TCZ in the clinical 
trial setting. 
Active TB requiring 
treatment within the 
previous 3 years and no 
evidence of active TB 
infection at enrollment.  
To ensure general safety of patients 
to be treated with TCZ in the clinical 
trial setting. 
Primary or secondary 
immunodeficiency (history 
of or currently active). 
To ensure general safety of patients 
to be treated with TCZ in the clinical 
trial setting 
No 
No 
No 
No 
Events of diverticular perforations as 
complications of diverticulitis have been reported 
uncommonly with TCZ in RA patients.  
Complications of diverticulitis is listed as a 
special warning and precaution in the SmPC and 
is included as an important identified risk in this 
RMP (refer to Module SVII.3.1).  
Treatment with TCZ, particularly when 
administered concomitantly with MTX, may be 
associated with elevations in hepatic 
transaminases.  
This has been listed in the SmPC under Special 
Warnings and Precautions for use.  
Hepatotoxicity is classified as an important 
identified risk in this RMP (see Module SVII.3.1) 
Tuberculosis is listed as a special warning and 
precaution in the SmPC.  
These patients may be more prone to infections; 
infections are listed as a special warning and 
precaution in the SmPC.  
 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
To ensure general safety of patients 
to be treated with TCZ in the clinical 
trial setting 
Evidence of active 
malignant disease, 
malignancies diagnosed 
within the previous 
10  years (including 
hematologic malignancies 
and solid tumors, except 
basal cell carcinoma of the 
skin that has been excised 
and cured), or breast 
cancer diagnosed within 
the previous 20 years. 
Is it to be included 
as missing 
information? 
(Yes/No) 
No 
Rationale 
Malignancy is listed as a special warning and 
precaution in the SmPC. 
Malignancies are included as an important 
potential risk in this RMP (see Module SVII.3.1). 
Pregnant women or 
nursing (breast feeding) 
mothers. 
To ensure the safety of pregnant 
women or nursing (breast feeding) 
mothers. 
No 
Information on the use of TCZ in pregnant 
women or nursing (breast feeding) mothers is 
provided in the SmPC including guidance on 
contraceptive use and advice that TCZ should 
not be used during pregnancy unless necessary. 
Healthcare providers are advised to consider 
discontinuation of therapy in breastfeeding 
women, or discontinuation of treatment. 
History of alcohol, drug, or 
chemical abuse within the 
6 months prior to screening 
visit. Neuropathies or other 
painful conditions that 
might interfere with pain 
evaluation. 
Potential for patients to be unable to 
adhere to study protocol or have 
conditions that would affect efficacy 
assessments 
No 
This exclusion criterion was not related to the 
safety of the patient population 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Patients with lack of 
peripheral venous access 
Potential for patients to be unable to 
adhere to study protocol/receive study 
medication 
History of MAS within 
3 months prior to the 
screening visit* 
To ensure general safety of patients 
to be treated with TCZ in the clinical 
trial setting 
Active uveitis (absence of 
uveitis must be 
documented by a slitlamp 
ophthalmology examination 
within 12 weeks prior to 
baseline)**. 
To ensure general safety of patients 
to be treated with TCZ in the clinical 
trial setting. 
Is it to be included 
as missing 
information? 
(Yes/No) 
Rationale 
No 
No 
No 
This exclusion criterion was not related to the 
safety of the patient population 
There is no data to suggest that TCZ has any 
effect on MAS.  
MAS is listed in the special warnings and 
precautions for use section in the SmPC. 
There are insufficient data to suggest that TCZ 
has an effect on uveitis. 
 COVID-19 = coronavirus disease 2019; CRS = cytokine release syndrome; GI = gastrointestinal; MAS=Macrophage Activation Syndrome; MTX 
= methotrexate; pJIA=polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; RA=rheumatoid arthritis; RMP = risk management plan; SmPC = Summary of 
Product Characteristics; sJIA =systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis; TB=Tuberculosis; TCZ= tocilizumab. 
* Criteria specific to sJIA 
**Criteria specific to pJIA 
 
SIV.2 Limitations to Detect Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trial Development 
Programs 
The clinical development program is unlikely to detect certain types of adverse reactions 
such as rare adverse reactions, adverse reactions with a long latency, or those caused 
by prolonged or cumulative exposure.  
SIV.3 Limitations in Respect to Populations Typically Underrepresented in 
Clinical Trial Development Programs 
Table 20  Exposure of Special Populations Included or Not in Clinical Trial 
Development Program 
Type of Special Population  
 Exposure 
Pregnant or breastfeeding women 
IV formulation: 55 patients 
SC formulation: 5 patients 
Patients with Relevant Comorbidities 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
IV formulation: 24 
Patients with renal impairment 
IV formulation: 152 
Patients with cardiac impairment 
IV formulation: 221 
Patients with a disease severity 
different from inclusion criteria in 
clinical trials 
Subpopulations carrying known and 
relevant genetic polymorphisms 
Combination with other biologics 
The clinical trial program for tocilizumab in RA 
recruited patients with moderate to severe disease 
(mean baseline DAS28 score in the adult RA All 
Exposure population was 6.4 [source: LTE safety 
update report No. 1053329 Section 3.2]). 
There is no known association between the use of 
tocilizumab and polymorphisms 
The use of tocilizumab in combination with rituximab 
in RA patients has been investigated in one trial 
(WX21956). However, this trial was terminated early 
for reasons unrelated to safety, and the number of 
patients recruited at the time of study termination 
was too small to determine the efficacy and safety 
of the combination therapy. 
Other 
Elderly patients (≥75 years) 
Paediatric Patients 
IV formulation: 286 patients 
SC formulation: 74 patients  
IV formulation: 311 patients 
SC formulation: 103 patients 
IV=intravenous; LTE=long-term extension; RA= rheumatoid arthritis; SC=subcutaneous. 
Notes: Renal, Hepatic, and Cardiac Impairment defined as MedDRA basket ‘PBRER SD AE 
Terms Suggesting {Renal/Hepatic/Cardiac} Impairment’ respectively. 
 
PART II: MODULE SV - POST-AUTHORIZATION EXPERIENCE 
SV.1 Post-Authorization Exposure 
SV.1.1  Method Used to Calculate Exposure 
The Marketing Authorization Holder (MAH) outlines in detail the method used to 
calculate post-authorization exposure in each respective Periodic Safety Update Report 
(PSUR)/Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Report (PBRER); please refer to the current 
PSUR/PBRER for this information. 
SV.1.2  Exposure 
The estimated cumulative post-authorization exposure to tocilizumab from the 
International Birth Date (11 April 2005) to 10 April 2021 (inclusive) are presented in the 
PBRER (data lock point 10 April 2021). The estimated cumulative market exposure to 
TCZ until 10 April 2021 is 2,567,502 patients (2,213,381 PY) of which 932,120 patients 
(874,999 PY) were estimated to have received TCZ during the reporting interval (from 
11 April 2020 to 10 April 2021). 
IV Formulation 
The combined cumulative post-marketing exposure of patients to IV tocilizumab is 
estimated to be 1,815,406 patients (1,600,447 PY). 
SC Formulation 
The combined cumulative post-marketing exposure of patients to SC tocilizumab is 
752,096 (612,933 PY). 
PART II: MODULE SVI - ADDITIONAL E.U. REQUIREMENTS FOR 
THE SAFETY SPECIFICATION 
Potential for Misuse for Illegal Purposes 
No studies on the effects of the potential for TCZ to cause dependence have been 
performed. However, there is no evidence from the available data that TCZ treatment 
results in dependence. Drugs that have the potential for misuse for illegal purposes are 
accepted to share some general characteristics such as psychoactivity, less commonly, 
anabolic effects, and enhancement of hemoglobin levels.  
IL-6 signaling blockade, through the use of TCZ, would not reasonably be considered as 
a potential drug of misuse for illegal purposes as it does not share any characteristics 
with drugs that are commonly associated with illegal misuse. Furthermore, there is no 
evidence from completed nonclinical and clinical studies that TCZ has been associated 
with any clinical event that might suggest the potential for misuse for illegal purposes. 
There is also no evidence from the available data that TCZ treatment gives rise to 
dependence.  
 
Erythropoietins have been associated with illegal use, primarily in athletes, in order to 
stimulate the bone marrow to increase RBC production thereby achieving the 
performance enhancement associated with training at high altitude. Results from clinical 
trials with TCZ have demonstrated improvement in anemia of chronic disease, 
associated with chronic inflammatory conditions, but no increase in healthy volunteers or 
in patients with normal hemoglobin labels. Additionally, supraphysiological levels of 
hemoglobin have not been recorded in patients receiving TCZ. Therefore, TCZ is not 
considered to be of use as a performance enhancing drug in this context.  
PART II:  MODULE SVII IDENTIFIED AND POTENTIAL RISKS 
SVII.1 Identification of Safety Concerns in the Initial RMP Submission 
SVII.1.1 Risks Not Considered Important for Inclusion in the List of Safety 
Concerns in the RMP 
Not applicable 
SVII.1.2 Risks Considered Important for Inclusion in the List of Safety 
Concerns in the RMP 
Not applicable 
SVII.2 New Safety Concerns and Reclassification with a Submission of an 
Updated RMP 
The following safety concerns have been reclassified within this submission of an 
updated RMP: 
–  The safety concern “serious infection”, considered as important identified risks 
for chronic TCZ dosing, was assessed as important potential risk for the 
indication of COVID-19. 
–  The safety concern “complications of diverticulitis”, considered as important 
identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, was assessed as important potential risk 
for the indication of COVID-19. 
–  The important identified risk “serious hypersensitivity reactions” has been 
removed from the list of safety concerns. “Serious hypersensitivity reactions” is 
considered a well known risk due to the widespread knowledge on the part of 
the healthcare professionals administering and managing the patients. 
Therefore, routine risk minimization measures are considered adequate to 
minimize this risk, and the risk is removed from the RMP. 
 
 
SVII.3 Details of Important Identified Risks, Important Potential Risks, and 
Missing Information 
SVII.3.1. Presentation of Important Identified Risks and Important Potential 
Risks 
Information on Important Identified Risks 
Serious Infections 
The safety concern “serious infection” is considered an important identified risk for 
chronic TCZ dosing, but is assessed as important potential risk for the indication of 
COVID-19. For ease of review, all data related to COVID-19 are included below 
under the Section Information on Important Identified Risks, together with data 
related to chronic TCZ dosing. 
MedDRA terms: SOC Infections and Infestations 
Potential mechanisms:  
Patients with RA, GCA, pJIA, and sJIA are at a higher risk of infection than the general 
population because of altered immunological function as well as concomitant therapies 
used to treat the underlying disease (e.g., corticosteroids and immunomodulating 
agents). Biologic therapies have been shown to be associated with infections, 
particularly serious infections, including tuberculosis and opportunistic infections.  
Patients with COVID-19 are at higher risk of secondary bacterial or fungal infection. 
Superinfections and co-infections are common in respiratory viral illnesses including 
COVID-19, particularly in severe hospitalized cases. Acute suppression of IL-6 may 
increase the infection risk due to IL-6’s role in the acute-phase response and overall 
defense mechanism against infectious organisms. 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term extensions, as described 
within this RMP, provide the strongest evidence.  
Characterization of the risk: 
Background incidence/prevalence 
RA, sJIA, pJIA, GCA, and CAR T-cell CRS 
Incidence rates of serious infections in RA patients treated with TNF antagonists ranged 
from 6.0 to 10.1 events per 100 PY (Johnston et al. 2011; Nguyen-Khoa et al. 2010; 
Thyagarajan et al. 2012). 
Deaths due to infections: incidence rate ranged from 0.069 to 0.24 events per 100 PY 
(Lunt et al. 2010; Carmona et al. 2007).  
 
 
COVID-19 
The incidence of secondary infections or co-infection (bacterial, fungal, or viral) in 
patients hospitalized with COVID-19 in China ranged from 1% to 15% (Chen et al. 2020; 
Fu et al. 2020; Huang et al. 2020; Lin et al. 2020a; Zhou et al. 2020). Common bacterial 
and fungal co-infections reported were Acinetobacter baumannii, Klebsiella pneumoniae, 
Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Candida albicans, and Aspergillus flavus, while common viral 
infections were influenza A, influenza B, respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza, 
Epstein-Barr virus, and adenovirus (Chen et al. 2020; Huang et al. 2020; Lin et al. 
2020a; Zhou et al. 2020). A retrospective study reported 101 patients with confirmed 
COVID-19 admitted to the Zhijiang Medical Center, China including 36 patients in the 
ICU. In total, 5 patients in the ICU (5.0%, 5 of 101 for all patients; 13.9%, 5 of 36 for 
patients in the ICU) were diagnosed with secondary bacterial infection (Fu et al. 2020). 
Another retrospective study of 393 hospitalized COVID-19 patients in the United States 
(New York) between 3 March and 27 March 2020 reported an incidence of 1% and 5.6% 
of viral co-infection and bacteremia respectively (Goyal et al. 2020). A single center 
study in the United States (Stanford) from 3 to 25 March 2020 identified a 20% 
prevalence of other viral respiratory infections among 115 hospitalized COVID-19 
patients. The most common co-infections were rhinovirus/enterovirus (6.9%), respiratory 
syncytial virus (5.2%), and non-SARS-CoV-2 Coronaviridae (4.3%) (Kim et al. 2020). 
Zhou et al.(2020) observed an incidence of 59% for sepsis and 20% for septic shock in 
191 patients hospitalized with COVID-19 (Zhou et al. 2020). Chen et al.(2020) reported 
the prevalence of 4% for septic shock in 99 patients with COVID-19−associated 
pneumonia (Chen et al. 2020). 
 
Frequency with 95 % CI 
Rates of Serious Infections 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
IV RA all exposure population 
(2 May 2012) 
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52)  
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU 
October 2012) 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
Placebo (PBO) + DMARD: 3.13/100PY (95% CI: 1.83, 5.02) 
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX: 3.51/100PY (95% CI: 1.97, 5.80) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARD: 5.11/100PY (95% CI: 3.70, 6.88) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety (SCS): RA (IV), Table 76 (p.204) 
4.42/100PY (95% CI: 4.11, 4.76) 
PBO + MTX: 2.4/100PY (95% CI: 0.9, 5.1) 
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX: 4.2/100PY (95% CI: 2.1, 7.5) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX: 3.8/100PY (95% CI: 1.8, 7.0) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + PBO MTX: 3.0/100PY (95% CI: 1.3, 5.9) 
TCZ 162mg QW + DMARD:  3.11/100PY (95% CI: 1.42, 5.89)  
TCZ 162mg Q2W + DMARD:  6.57/100PY (95% CI: 3.39, 11.47)  
PBO + DMARD:  6.11/100PY (95% CI: 1.98, 14.26)  
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety (SCS) RA (SC) Table 33 (p.78) 
4.61/100PY (95% CI: 3.62, 5.78) 
PBO QW + 26-week prednisone taper: 4.2/100PY (95% CI: 0.5, 15.2) 
PBO QW + 52-week prednisone taper: 12.5/100PY (95% CI: 4.6, 27.2) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + 52-week prednisone taper: 9.7/100PY (95% CI: 4.4, 18.4) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + 52-week prednisone taper:  4.4/100PY (95% CI: 0.5, 15.9) 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
5.2/100PY (95% CI: 3.0, 8.5) 
Source: WA19977 Final CSR (p.34)  
4.0/100PY (95% CI: 0.48, 14.33) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety pJIA Section 2.1.5.2.2 (p.69) 
 
 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
PBO: 0 
All TCZ: 11.5/100PY (95% CI: 1.4, 41.5) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety sJIA Table 20 (p.69) 
All TCZ: 10.1/100PY (95% CI: 7.1, 14.0) 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 CSR Table 32 
TCZ IV 12 mg/kg: 13.6/100PY (95% CI: 0.3, 75.7) 
IV sJIA <2 Years (Week 52) 
Source: NP25737 Final CSR Table 3 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
All TCZ: 10.7/100PY (95% CI: 3.5, 25.0) 
Source: WA28118 Final CSR output t_ae_rate_SE_SAE_INF.out 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 6 
  Pooled data from WA42380, 
ML42528, and WA42511 
Pooled Safety-Evaluable Population: 
PBO: 22.8% 
TCZ: 18.6% 
Baseline Steroid Use subgroup:  
PBO: 22.9% 
TCZ: 18.1% 
Source: root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_SE_SINF.out 
root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_aesi_bsteroid_SE.out 
6 The safety concern “serious infection” is considered an important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but is assessed as important potential 
risk for the indication of COVID 19. CIs are not available for the COVID studies. 
 
 
 
 
 
Seriousness/outcomes7 
Rates of Fatal Infections 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
PBO + DMARD: 0.18/100PY (95% CI: 0.00, 1.03)  
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX: 0 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARD: 0.48/100PY (95% CI: 0.13, 1.22) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety RA (IV), Section 5.9.2 (pp. 209 and 802) 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
0.16/100 PY (95% CI: 0.10, 0.24)  
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52)  
SC RA (Week 24) 
PBO + MTX:  0.78/100 PY (95% CI: 0.10, 2.83) 
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX:  0.76/100 PY (95% CI: 0.09, 2.74) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX:  0 
TCZ 8 mg/kg +PBO:  0 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 0 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD:  1.4/100 PY (95% CI: 0.28, 3.95)  
PBO + DMARD: 0 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety RA (SC), Tables 20-21;33, (pp. 51-52;78) 
0.31/100 PY (95% CI: 0.10, 0.73) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU October 
2012) 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 0 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper: 0 
TCZ 162 mg QW+ 52-week prednisone taper: 0 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 52-week prednisone taper:  0 
0 - No deaths occurred during the study 
Source: WA19977 Final CSR (p.34) 
7 Rates of Serious infections with an outcome of death are presented in this section 
 
 
 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
IV sJIA <2 Years (Week 52) 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 8 
0 - No deaths occurred during the study 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety pJIA (SC) Section 2.1.5.2.2 (p.69) 
PBO: 0  
All TCZ: 0 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety sJIA (IV) Table 20, pp 54 
All TCZ: 0.3/100PY (95% CI: 0.01, 1.53) 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 CSR, Table 32 
0 - No deaths occurred during the study  
Source: NP25737 Final CSR, Table 3 
All TCZ: 2.1/100PY (95% CI: 0.05, 11.92)  
Source: WA28118 Final CSR, output t_ae_rate_SE_SAE_INF.out 
Pooled data from WA42380, ML42528, and WA42511  
PBO: 14.7% 
TCZ: 13.8% 
Source: root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_dth_SE.out 
8 The safety concern “serious infection” is considered an important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but is assessed as important potential 
risk for the indication of COVID 19. CIs are not available for the COVID studies. These fatal cases occurred in the context of an indication (COVID 
19) involving a severe underlying respiratory infection. There were 12.2% patients with the Preferred Term of COVID-19 or COVID-19 pneumonia in 
the PBO group and 10.4% in the TCZ group. 
 
 
Severity and nature of risk 
In the IV RA all exposure population, upper respiratory tract infection was the most 
commonly reported type of infection and pneumonia and cellulitis were the most 
commonly reported types of serious infection. Reported serious infections, some with 
fatal outcome, included active tuberculosis, which may present with intrapulmonary or 
extrapulmonary disease, invasive pulmonary infections, including candidiasis, 
aspergillosis, coccidioidomycosis and pneumocystis jirovecii, pneumonia, cellulitis, 
herpes zoster, gastroenteritis, diverticulitis, sepsis, and bacterial arthritis. Cases of 
opportunistic infections have been reported. There is no evidence to date of an 
increasing risk of infection, serious infection, opportunistic infection, or tuberculosis over 
time. The most commonly reported fatal infections are pneumonia and sepsis. 
Impact on Quality of Life 
TCZ may reduce resistance to infections; therefore, patients will be monitored for any 
signs or symptoms of infections. Patients may experience severe infections, which can 
sometimes be fatal. Vigilance for the timely detection of serious infection is 
recommended for patients receiving biologic treatments for moderate to severe RA, 
GCA, pJIA, or sJIA as signs and symptoms of acute inflammation may be lessened, 
associated with suppression of the acute-phase reaction. The effects of TCZ on 
C-reactive protein, neutrophils, and signs and symptoms of infection should be 
considered when evaluating a patient for a potential infection. Similar monitoring 
requirements and recommendations for vigilance apply for COVID-19 patients.  
Risk factors and risk groups: 
Patients with diabetes reported a higher rate of serious infections compared to patients 
without diabetes. Patients treated with TCZ and taking background corticosteroids 
reported a higher rate of serious infections compared to patients not taking background 
corticosteroids. The rate of serious infections appears to increase with body weight. 
Healthcare professionals should exercise caution when considering the use of TCZ in 
patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections or with underlying conditions 
(e.g., diverticulitis, diabetes, or ILD which may predispose patients to infections). 
Vigilance for timely detection of serious infections is recommended as signs and 
symptoms of acute inflammation may be lessened due to suppression of the acute-
phase reactants. 
Preventability: 
Prescribing information warning caution when considering the use of RoActemra in 
patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections or with underlying conditions 
(e.g. diverticulitis, diabetes, and ILD) which may predispose patients to infections. 
 
Prescribing information and Patient Information Leaflet warning of need for increased 
vigilance regarding infections (including screening for latent tuberculosis [TB]) and 
recommendation to administer prophylactic treatment with standard antibacterial therapy 
in patients with latent TB prior to start of treatment with TCZ 
Exclusion of any possibility of an active infection before initiating therapy in RA, sJIA, 
pJIA, and CRS (including screening for latent TB). Interruption of TCZ if a patient 
develops a serious infection until the infection resolves in these indications. 
Exclusion of any possibility of any concurrent active serious infection before initiating 
therapy in COVID-19.  
In the prescribing information, patients with COVID-19 are recommended to contact a 
healthcare professional immediately should they identify symptoms suggesting infection 
emergence to assure rapid evaluation and appropriate treatment. 
 Impact on the benefit-risk balance of the product: 
Serious and sometimes fatal infections have been reported in patients receiving 
immunosuppressive agents including TCZ. Patients may experience severe infection or 
frequent minor infections. There have been a number of serious infections reported 
including cellulitis (inflammation of the deep layers of skin), pneumonia, shingles (herpes 
zoster), sepsis (toxins in the blood or tissues), and reactivation of a viral infection 
(Epstein-Barr). The TCZ Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC), Patient 
Information Leaflet, and the Educational Materials for Healthcare professionals and 
patients, mitigate the risk and severity, and also provide information regarding managing 
the risk.  
Public health impact: 
There is no public health impact. 
Complications of Diverticulitis 
The safety concern “complications of diverticulitis” is considered an important 
identified risk for chronic TCZ dosing, but is assessed as important potential risk for 
the indication of COVID-19. For ease of review, all data related to COVID-19 are 
included below under the Section Information on Important Identified Risks, together 
with data related to chronic TCZ dosing. 
MedDRA terms: GI Perforation Standardised MedDRA Query (SMQ) (narrow); GI 
Perforation SMQ (wide) 
Potential mechanisms:  
Potential infectious etiology (diverticulitis) 
 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term extensions, as described 
within this RMP, provide the strongest evidence.  
Characterization of the risk: 
Background incidence/prevalence 
RA, sJIA, pJIA, GCA, and CAR T-cell CRS 
Myllykangas-Luosujärvi found a 6-fold excess mortality in patients with RA as a result of 
diverticular disease, and postulated a link to medications used to treat RA (Myllykangas-
Luosujarvi  et al.1995). As corticosteroids are known to be associated with abscess 
development, and since both corticosteroids and NSAIDs have been implicated in 
perforated diverticular disease, Mpofu et al. undertook a case control study to investigate 
their association with the development of sigmoid diverticular abscess perforation in 
patients with and without RA (Mpofu et al., 2004). This demonstrated a strong 
association between corticosteroid treatment in the development of sigmoid diverticular 
abscess perforation in both rheumatic and non-rheumatic patients. 
Data from claims databases suggest that treatment with corticosteroids may be 
associated with an increased risk of gastrointestinal (GI) perforations with rates of 0.19 
for biologics administered concomitantly with corticosteroids, and 0.3 for corticosteroids 
(Curtis et al.2012) 
COVID-19 
Limited information is available for GI perforation in patients with COVID-19. 
Associations between GI symptoms and COVID-19 have been evidenced but restricted 
to diarrhea (CDC 2020a; WHO 2020a; WHO 2020b). In a retrospective cross-sectional 
study of 412 COVID-19 patients in Boston, United States, bowel wall perforation was 
observed in 1patient (0.2%) (Bhayana et al. 2020). Zangrillo et al.(2020) reported a 
single case of GI perforation in a case series of 73 mechanically ventilated patients with 
confirmed COVID-19 admitted to the ICU in Milan, Italy (Zangrillo et al. 2020). A 
retrospective study included 81 adult COVID-19 patients with abdominal computed 
tomography performed from 1 April 2020 to 1 May 2020 in Brazil. A single case of 
intestinal perforation was observed on abdominal imaging accounting for the prevalence 
of 1% (Horvat et al. 2021). 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No study described the risk factors associated with GI perforation in COVID-19 patients. 
Mortality 
No study described the mortality due to GI perforation in COVID-19 patients. 
 
Rates of Medically Confirmed GI perforation9  
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
PBO+MTX: 0 
TCZ 4 mg/kg +MTX: 0.23/100PY (95% CI: 0.01, 1.31) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARD: 0.12/100PY (95% CI: 0.00, 0.66) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety, RA (IV) Table 53, (p.161) 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
0.20/100PY (95% CI: 0.14, 0.29) 
Source: Safety Update of IV TCZ Adult RA Studies (Data cutoff date 2 May 2012), Table 19, (p.75) 
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52)  
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU October 
2012) 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
IV pJIA (Week 40) 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
PBO+MTX: 0.40/100PY (0.0, 2.2) 
All TCZ: 0 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety, RA (IV) Table 50, (p.128) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 0  
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 0  
PBO + DMARD: 0  
0.06 events per 100 PY (95% CI: 0.00, 0.35) 
Source: Four Month Safety Update, RA (SC) Table 18 (p.32)  
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 0  
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper: 0 
TCZ 162 mg QW+ 52-week prednisone taper: 0  
TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 52-week prednisone taper: 0  
0 – No GI perforations were reported in this study 
Source: WA19977 Final CSR, Section 7.3.3, pp128 
0 – No GI perforations were reported in this study 
Source: WA19977 Final CSR, Section 7.3.3, pp128 
9 Medically Confirmed GI Perforation: Because the events captured by the GI perf SMQ are considered nonspecific an unblinded medical review 
was performed by the Sponsor to identify cases medically consistent with GI perforation 
 
 
 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA (Week 104) 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
IV sJIA <2 Years (Week 12) 
IV sJIA <2 Years (Week 52) 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 10 
  Pooled data from WA42380, ML42528, and 
WA42511 
0- No GI Perforations were reported in this study 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Section 2.1.5.1 pp63  
0- No GI Perforations were reported in this study 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Section 7.4.7.2 (p.178)  
0-No GI Perforations were reported in this study 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Section 7.4.7.2 (p.178)  
Not assessed  
Source: WA18221 Week 260 Final CSR Section 3.6.7.1 (p.45) 
0 - No GI Perforations were reported in this study 
Source: NP25737 Final CSR Section 6.8.8 
0- No GI Perforations were reported in this study 
Source: NP25737 Final CSR Section 7.9.6 
0 - No GI Perforations were reported in this study 
Source: NP25737 Final CSR Section 6.8.7 
Pooled Safety-Evaluable Population: 
PBO: 0.6% 
TCZ: 0.5% 
Baseline Steroid Use subgroup:  
PBO: 0.3% 
TCZ: 0.5% 
Source: root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_SE_GASTR.out 
root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_aesi_bsteroid_SE.out 
10 The safety concern “complications of diverticulitis” is considered an important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but is assessed as 
important potential risk for the indication of COVID 19. The three COVID-19 studies used wide SMQ for relevant outputs, which included non-
medically confirmed cases. 
 
 
 
Seriousness/outcomes: 
Most events resolved without sequelae (23/33). Two events were fatal. 
Severity and nature of risk 
Over 50% of the events involved diverticular perforation. There has been no change in 
the pattern or types of GI perforation events over time. 
Impact on Quality of Life 
Patients presenting with symptoms potentially indicative of complicated diverticulitis, 
such as abdominal pain, haemorrhage and/or unexplained change in bowel habits with 
fever should be evaluated promptly for early identification of diverticulitis which can be 
associated with gastrointestinal perforation. 
Risk factors and risk groups: 
Tocilizumab should be used with caution in patients with previous history of intestinal 
ulceration or diverticulitis. 
Preventability: 
Prescribing information warning that TCZ should be used with caution in patients with a 
history of intestinal ulceration or diverticulitis. Patients presenting with symptoms 
potentially indicative of complicated diverticulitis, such as abdominal pain, should be 
evaluated promptly for early identification of GI perforation. Patients to be alerted to seek 
care in case of symptoms potentially indicative of complicated diverticulitis, such as 
abdominal pain, hemorrhage, and/or unexplained change in bowel habits with fever. 
Impact on the benefit-risk balance of the product:  
The rare event of perforation of the large bowel has been seen in subjects who had large 
bowel infections. Perforations may occur in the absence of clear symptoms or clinical 
signs. Tocilizumab should not be administered to patients with a history of complicated 
diverticulitis and should be used with caution in patients with a history of diverticulitis. 
The TCZ SmPC, Patient Information Leaflet, and Educational Materials for Healthcare 
professionals and patients, mitigate the risk and severity and also provide information 
regarding managing the risk.  
Public health impact: 
None 
Neutropenia 
MedDRA terms: Neutropenia High-Level Term (HLT), Neutrophil count decreased 
Preferred Term 
Laboratory data analysis based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
(CTCAE) grades: 
–  Grade 1: 1.5 x 109/L - < lower limit of normal (LLN)  
 
–  Grade 2: 1.0 - < 1.5 x 109/L 
–  Grade 3:  0.5 - < 1.0 x 109/L  
–  Grade 4: <0.5 x 109/L 
Potential mechanisms: 
The potential cause of neutropenia could be due to marginalization of neutrophils; 
however, the exact cause is uncertain. Neutrophil function and distribution was studied 
in Study WA29049, and Study ML25243. 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence:  
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term extensions, as described 
within this RMP, provide the strongest evidence.  
Characterization of the risk: 
Background incidence/prevalence 
COVID-19 
In a pooled analysis of 66 paediatric patients with COVID-19, available from 12 studies 
(11 conducted in China and 1 in Singapore), neutropenia was reported in 6% of the 
patients (Henry et al. 2020). A retrospective study in Wuhan, China included 213 
(mild/moderate: 175, severe: 38) COVID-19 patients who had been discharged or died 
by 15 March 2020. On laboratory examinations, overall, 20.2% patients reported lower 
neutrophil count [mild/moderate: (21.1%), severe: (15.8%)] (Hu et al. 2020). 
 
 
Neutrophil Laboratory Data 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
n=4163 
Normal: 2256 (54.2%) 
Grade 1: 900 (21.6%) 
Grade 2: 757 (18.2%) 
Grade 3: 223 (5.4%) 
Grade 4: 27 (<1%) 
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU Data 
Cut October 2012)   
SC GCA (Week 52) 
Source: Safety Update of IV TCZ Adult RA Studies (Data cutoff date 2 May 2012) 
Grade 3 and 4 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 18/631 (2.9%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 16/437 (3.7%) 
Placebo + DMARD: 0/218 
Grade 3 and 4 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 29/521 (5.6%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W PFS11: 6/170 (3.5%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W PFS to TCZ 162 mg Q2W AI12:  7/168 (4.2%) 
Placebo PFS Q2W to TCZ 162 mg Q2W PFS:  2/60 (3.3%) 
Placebo PFS Q2W to TCZ 162 mg Q2W AI:  4/59 (6.8%) 
Grade 3 and 4 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 0/50 (0.0%) 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  0/51 (0.0%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 4/100 (2.0%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 2/49 (4.1%) 
11 162 mg SC administered via the pre-filled syringe (PFS) 
12 162 mg SC administered via the autoinjector (AI) 
 
 
 
 
 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
IV sJIA <2 Years (Week 52) 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
n=188 
Grade 3: 11 (5.9%) 
Grade 4: 0 
Source: WA19977 final week 104 CSR Section 7.10.1 Table 37 
n=52 
Grade 3-4: 8 (15.4%) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety, Table 33 (p.90) 
Grade 3:  
Placebo: 0 
All TCZ: 5/75 (6.7%) 
Grade 4: 
Placebo: 0 
All TCZ: 1/75 (1.3%) 
Source: WA18221 Week 12 Final CSR, Table 57 
n=112 
 Grade 3: 28 (25.0%) 
Grade 4: 7 (6.3%) 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 Final CSR, Table 43 (p.139) 
n=11 
Grade 3: 3 (27.3%)  
Grade 4: 0 
Source: NP 25737 CSR data output: t_lb_shift_SE.out 
n=51 
Grade 3: 12 (23.5%) 
Grade 4: 0 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 13 
Source: WA 28118 Final CSR data outputs: t_lb_grade_SE. t_lb_shift_SE_HEM.out 
13 Data are limited to those that were “not low” at baseline from the shift table. A pooled assessment was not conducted as the frequency and timing 
of scheduled laboratory measurements was different. Individual study data are presented. 
 
 
 
  WA42380  
  ML42528  
PBO (n=115):  
Grade 1: 2 (1.7%) 
Grade 2: 0 
Grade 3: 1 (0.9%) 
Grade 4: 0 
TCZ (n=245):  
Grade 1: 18 (7.3%) 
Grade 2: 22 (9%) 
Grade 3: 9 (3.7%) 
Grade 4: 3 (1.2%) 
Source: WA42380 Final CSR  
PBO (n=80):  
Grade 1: 8 (10%) 
Grade 2: 1 (1.3%) 
Grade 3: 0 
Grade 4: 0 
TCZ (n=170):  
Grade 1: 48 (28.2%) 
Grade 2: 2 (1.2%) 
Grade 3: 2 (1.2%) 
Grade 4: 0 
Source: ML42528 Final CSR 
 
 
 
  WA42511  
PBO+RDV (n=168):  
Grade 1: 3 (1.8%) 
Grade 2: 3 (1.8%) 
Grade 3: 1 (0.6%) 
Grade 4: 0 
TCZ+RDV (n=309):  
Grade 1: 17 (5.5%) 
Grade 2: 18 (5.8%) 
Grade 3: 4 (1.3%) 
Grade 4: 3 (1.0%) 
Source: WA42511 Final CSR 
 
Seriousness/outcomes: 
Grade 3 and 4 CTCAE Grade data are provided above for both the IV and SC 
populations.  
In all indications studied to date, other than COVID-19, no correlation was observed 
between events of Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia and the occurrence of serious infections. 
There was a higher incidence of Grade 1 or 2 neutropenia among patients weighing less 
than < 60 kg compared with patients in the other body weight categories. 
Severity and nature of risk 
Severe neutropenia may be associated with an increased risk of serious infections, 
although there has been no association between decreases in neutrophils and the 
occurrence of serious infections in clinical trials with TCZ to date for all indications other 
than COVID-19.  
Impact on Quality of Life: 
Decreases in neutrophil counts have been observed in RA, GCA, pJIA, and sJIA 
patients following treatment with TCZ. 
Preventability: 
In patients not previously treated with TCZ for all indications other than, COVID-19, 
initiation is not recommended in patients with an ANC below 2 x 109/L. Monitoring during 
treatment is recommended and dose modification or treatment discontinuation is 
recommended based upon ANC. In patients who develop an ANC < 0.5 x 109/L 
continued treatment is not recommended.  
For patients with COVID-19 who develop an ANC <1 x 10(9)/L, administration of 
treatment is not recommended. 
For patients with COVID-19, monitoring of neutrophil counts according to current 
standard clinical practices is recommended. 
Impact on the benefit-risk balance of the product: 
Decreases in neutrophil and other WBC counts have been associated with TCZ 
treatment. The TCZ SmPC, Patient Information Leaflet, and Educational Materials for 
Healthcare professionals and patients, mitigate the risk and severity, and also provide 
information regarding managing the risk. 
Public health impact: 
None identified. 
 
Hepatotoxicity 
MedDRA terms: Hepatic failure, fibrosis and cirrhosis and other liver damage-related 
conditions (SMQ narrow), Liver related investigations, signs and symptoms (SMQ 
narrow), Cholestasis and jaundice of hepatic origin (SMQ narrow), Hepatocellular 
damage and hepatitis NEC (HLT) 
Potential mechanisms: 
It has been suggested that RA may be associated with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis 
(Ahmed et al.2006) which may be mediated by the action of pro-inflammatory cytokines 
such as IL-6 and TNFα. IL-6 is elevated in patients with hepatitis (Hill et al.1992) and 
alcoholic liver disease (Hill et al.1992). Therefore, IL-6 and TNFα are involved in liver 
injury. Paradoxically, IL-6 is also considered a hepatoprotective factor because it 
stimulates hepatocyte proliferation and mediates the regeneration of liver tissue after 
injury (Taub et al.2003) (Cressman et al.1996). IL-6-deficient mice develop increased 
liver injury in response to CCl4 in a TNFα mediated model of liver injury (Czaja et 
al.1995), suggesting IL-6 may function downstream of TNFα to ameliorate the injury 
response. 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Based on a comprehensive, cumulative review of the clinical and safety data, FDA 
Adverse Event Reporting System and Eudravigilance databases and peer reviewed 
literature, the MAH has identified a causal association between TCZ and serious 
hepatotoxicity. The assessment was further validated by an independent drug-induced 
liver injury (DILI) expert panel on selected cases (Hepatotoxicity and Tocilizumab, Drug 
Safety Report [DSR] No. 1084454, 2019) (Addendum CSR, Study WA25204 
[ENTRACTE]; Report 1093548). 
Characterization of the risk: 
Background Incidence/Prevalence 
RA, sJIA, pJIA, GCA, and CAR T-cell CRS 
The overall worldwide incidence rate of DILI variously specified in the general population 
is low (13.9-24.0 per 100,000 people). The incidence of acute and clinically significant 
DILI (requiring hospitalization or requiring specialist referral), however, is even lower 
(2.3-2.4 per 100,000 persons per year). At the more severe end of the spectrum, the 
occurrence of all-cause acute liver failure in the developed world is considered very rare 
(1 to 6 cases per 1,000,000 people every year). There is wide variability in the incidence 
rates of DILI in populations. This is due to the following reasons: 
Difficulty in recognizing and diagnosing DILI (e.g., there are no widely accepted criteria 
for diagnosis of DILI, instead it is a diagnosis of exclusion) 
Difficulty in attribution of the event to a drug. There are multiple drug agents commonly 
in use among the general population, and in particular among patients with RA, where 
 
many DMARDs as well as over-the-counter drugs frequently used (e.g., anti-
inflammatories) are recognized to have hepatotoxic effects. 
Under-ascertained predisposing factors (such as heavy alcohol consumption, use of 
herbal agents), as well as other factors prevalent in the RA population, such as obesity, 
diabetes, etc., that may impact individual background risk. 
Trade-offs in undertaking population-level studies that of necessity cover less detail on 
larger numbers of individuals, versus undertaking small studies with comprehensive data 
detail on more circumscribed populations but with multiple exclusions, which by default 
are less representative of patients receiving medical care under real-world conditions or 
of target populations. 
Thus, the epidemiology data presented contains limitations which make the 
generalizability of these results, including extrapolation to the RA population challenging. 
This was further compounded by inconsistent definition of DILI across different 
publications examined, and reporting of results for only a single drug comparator, further 
limiting the generalization of the results for the RA population with or without biological 
DMARD (Drug Safety Report No. 1084454, 2019). 
As MTX is used as background therapy in a large number of RA patients, the 
observations with this agent are relevant in this context. In the MTX SmPC, MTX is 
described as hepatotoxic, particularly at high doses or with prolonged therapy. Liver 
atrophy, necrosis, cirrhosis, fatty changes, and periportal fibrosis have been reported. 
Changes may occur without prior signs of toxicity, so it is imperative that hepatic function 
be determined before treatment is started and monitored regularly throughout therapy.  
In addition, the MTX SmPC, describes that temporary increases in transaminases to 2-3 
times of the ULN have been reported by patients at a frequency of 13 - 20 %, however 
MTX should not be started or should be discontinued if there are any clinically relevant 
abnormalities of liver function tests or liver biopsy.  
MTX background rates for liver enzyme elevations from the US package insert are cited 
below (Methotrexate = Rheumatrex US package insert). 
COVID-19 
Liver injury is commonly associated in patients infected with coronavirus (COVID-19, 
SARS, and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome). A review of 12 studies from China 
found that in COVID-19 patients, the incidence of liver injury ranged from 14.8% to 53%, 
abnormal ALT from 13.3% to 28% and abnormal AST from 22.2% to 58% (Xu et al. 
2020). 
 
 
A prospective cohort study reported on 1611 hospitalized patients with confirmed 
SARS-CoV-2 infection from 15 April  2020 through 31 July  2020 in 38 different hospitals 
from 11 Latin American countries. Abnormal liver tests on admission were present in 
45.2% (95% CI: 42.7–47.7) of the cohort. Patients with elevated ALT, total bilirubin, and 
alkaline phosphatase accounted for 35.3%, 6.3%, and 19.4%, respectively. Among 
patients with elevated ALT, 32.6% of the cases presented moderate injury (2–5 times 
ULN) and 10.7% were severe (>5 times ULN) (Mendizabal et al. 2021). 
Retrospective laboratory diagnosis of 1099 Chinese COVID-19 patients from 
11 December 2019 to 29 January 2020 showed ALT elevation (> 40 U/L) occurred in 
21.3% (158/741) and AST elevation (> 40 U/L) in 22.2% (168/757) of patients. Severe 
COVID-19 patients had a higher probability of ALT elevation, and AST elevations 
compared with non-severe patients (28.1% vs. 19.8% and 39.4% vs. 18.2%, 
respectively). 10.5% (76/722) patients presented with abnormal bilirubin (> 17.1 
µmol/liter) (Guan et al. 2020).  
Another retrospective study in China (from 20 January 2020 to 17 February 2020) 
evaluated laboratory findings of 202 clinically confirmed hospitalized COVID-19 patients. 
Elevated ALT (< 30 U/L for males and 19 U/L for females) was present in 101 (50.0%) 
patients. Elevated AST and total bilirubin were found in 16.8% and 8.4% of the patients, 
respectively. 67 (33.2%) patients had persistent abnormal liver function from admission 
till the last day of follow-up. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, identified as hepatic 
steatosis index >36 points and/or by abdominal ultrasound examination, was present in 
37.6% of the patients (Ji et al. 2020).  
A retrospective study of 5700 COVID-19 patients in the United States (March-April 2020) 
identified 19 patients (0.4%) with cirrhosis, and 0.1% each with chronic hepatitis B and C 
as prevalent comorbidity before hospitalization (Richardson et al. 2020). Patients with 
liver injury were at 9-fold greater risk of severe COVID-19 (OR 9.04) (Cai et al. 2020). In 
addition, immune-mediated inflammation, such as cytokine storm and 
pneumonia-associated hypoxia, might also contribute to liver injury or even develop into 
liver failure in patients with COVID-19 who are critically ill (Zhang et al. 2020a). 
Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind RA Studies 
The approximate incidence of MTX-attributed (i.e., placebo-rate subtracted) adverse 
reactions in 12 to 18-week double-blind studies of patients (n=128) with RA treated with 
low dose oral (7.5 to 15 mg/week) pulse MTX, are listed in the MTX US package insert 
and include 15% of patients with elevated liver function tests (LFTs). Persistent 
abnormalities in LFTs were reported to precede appearance of fibrosis or cirrhosis in this 
population. Virtually all of these patients were on concomitant NSAIDs and some were 
also taking low dosages of corticosteroids. It is unknown whether even longer use will 
increase these risks.  
 
Laboratory Abnormalities in the Clinical Trials Setting: 
ALT/AST shift from baseline 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
Indication and Route 
ALT shift from baseline 
AST shift from baseline 
IV RA DMARD-IR all 
control population 
Placebo + DMARD (n=929) 
>3 to 5x ULN: 9 (1.0%) 
>5 ×ULN: 3 (0.3%) 
All TCZ (n=1858) 
>3 to 5x ULN: 89 (4.8%) 
> 5 ×ULN: 30 (1.6%) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety RA (IV), Table 46 (p.149) 
Placebo + DMARD (n=971) 
>3 to 5 x ULN: 4 (0.4%) 
> 5 × ULN: 1 (0.1%) 
All TCZ (n=1921) 
>3 to 5 x ULN: 31 (1.6%) 
> 5 × ULN: 3 (0.2%) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety RA (IV), Table 46 (p.149) 
IV RA All Exposure (02 
May 2012) 
IV Early RA WA19926 
(Week 52) 
1 to ≤ 3 × ULN:70.6% (2712/3839) 
> 5 × ULN: 2.9% 
1 to ≤ 3 × ULN: 59.4% (2357/3965) 
> 5 × ULN: 0.9% 
ALT >ULN -≤ 3x ULN:  
•  PBO +MTX: 36.9% 
• 
• 
• 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + PBO: 35.6% 
TCZ 4  mg/kg +MTX:39.1% 
TCZ 8  mg/kg +MTX: 48.6%  
ALT > 3 ULN ≤ 5 x ULN 
AST >ULN -≤ 3 x ULN  
•  PBO +MTX: 36.9% 
• 
• 
• 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + PBO: 35.6% 
TCZ 4  mg/kg +MTX:39.1% 
TCZ 8  mg/kg +MTX: 48.6%  
AST > 3 ULN ≤ 5 x ULN 
• 
highest frequency in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX 
and TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX 
ALT > 5 ULN ≤ 8 x ULN 
• 
frequency (at least twice higher) in the TCZ 
8 mg/kg + MTX  
AST > 5 ULN ≤ 8 x ULN 
•  highest frequency in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX 
•  highest frequency in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX  
and TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX 
 
 
 
 
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure 
population (4MSU 
Data Cut October 
2012)   
ALT >3x ULN-5xULN 
AST > 3x ULN-5xULN 
PBO + DMARD: 4/218 (1.8%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 24/631 (3.8%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 7/437 (1.6%)  
PBO + DMARD: 2/218 (0.9%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 5/631 (0.8 %) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 2/437 (0.5%)  
ALT > 5xULN: 
AST > 5xULN: 
PBO + DMARD: 0/218 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 6/631 (1.0%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 1/437 (0.2%)  
PBO + DMARD: 0/218 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 1/631 (0.2%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 0/437   
ALT >3x ULN- 5x ULN 
AST > 3x ULN- 5x ULN 
PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ PFS Q2W:  2/60 (3.3%) 
PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  2/59 (3.4%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 30/521 (5.8%) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg IV to TCZ 162 mg QW:  12/186 (6.5%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW to TCZ 8 mg/kg IV:  4/48 (8.3%) 
TCZ PFS Q2W:  4/170 (2.4%) 
TCZ PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  4/168 (2.4%) 
PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ PFS Q2W:  1/60 (1.7%) 
PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  2/59 (3.4%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 3/521 (0.6%) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg IV to TCZ 162 mg QW:  3/186 (1.6%) 
TCZ PFS Q2W:  2/170 (1.2%) 
TCZ PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  2/168 (1.2%) 
AST > 5xULN: 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  1/59 (1.7%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 3/521 (0.6%) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg IV to TCZ 162 mg QW:  1/186 (0.5%) 
     TCZ PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  2/168 (1.2%) 
> 5xULN: 
PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ PFS Q2W:  1/60 (1.7%) 
PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  2/59 (3.4%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 6/521 (1.2%) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg IV to TCZ 162 mg QW:  4/186 (2.2%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW to TCZ 8 mg/kg IV:  1/48 (2.1%) 
TCZ PFS Q2W:  1/170 (0.6%) 
TCZ PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  2/168 (1.2%) 
Grade 2 Post-baseline Changes in ALT and/or AST 
•  PBO + 26-week prednisone taper:0/50 (0.0%) 
•  PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  0/51 (0.0%) 
•  TCZ 162mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 2/100 (2.0%) 
•  TCZ 162mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 1/49 (2.0%) 
Grade 3 Post-baseline Changes in ALT and/or AST 
•  PBO + 26-week prednisone taper:0/50 (0.0%) 
•  PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  1/51 (2.0%) 
•  TCZ 162mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 2/100 (2.0%) 
 
 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
IV sJIA <2 Years 
(Week 52) 
•  TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 1/49 (2.0%) 
Grade 4 Post-baseline Changes in ALT and/or AST 
•  No patient experienced a shift from normal to Grade 4 for ALT or AST post-baseline. 
n=187 
Grade 2: 11 (5.9%) 
Grade 3: 4 (2.1%)  
Grade 4: 0 (0%) 
Source: WA19977 Final Week 104 CSR Table 41 (p.157-158) 
n=187 
Grade 2: 3 (1.6%) 
Grade 3: 4 (2.1%) 
Grade 4: 0 (0%) 
Source: WA19977 Final Week 104 CSR Table 41 (p.157-158) 
>3x ULN- 5x ULN: All TCZ SC: 3/52 (5.8%) 
> 5xULN: All TCZ SC: 2/52 (3.8%) 
> 3xULN- 5xULN: All TCZ SC: 0 
> 5xULN:  All TCZ SC: 2/52 (3.8%) 
> 2.5xULN to 5xULN (Grade 2) 
PBO 0 
All TCZ 5/75 (6.7%) 
> 5xULN to 20xULN (Grade 3) 
PBO 0 
All TCZ 1/75 (1.3%) 
No Grade 4 elevations 
Source: WA18221 Week 12 Final CSR Table 60 
n=112 
Grade 2 (> 2.5 - 5xULN): 17 (15.2%) 
Grade 3 (> 5 -20 x ULN): 13 (11.6%) 
Grade 4 (> 20 ULN): 1 (0.9%) 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 Final CSR Table 52 (p.150) 
> 2.5xULN to 5xULN (Grade 2) 
PBO 0  
All TCZ 2/75 (2.7%) 
No Grade 3 or 4 elevations 
Source: WA18221 Week 12 Final CSR Table 60 
n=112 
Grade 2 (> 2.5 - 5xULN): 11 (11.6%) 
Grade 3 (> 5 -20 x ULN): 5 (4.5%) 
Grade 4 (> 20 ULN): 1 (0.9%) 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 Final CSR Table 52 (p.150) 
n=11 
Grade 2: 2 (18.2%) 
Grade 3: 1 (9.1%) 
Grade 4: 2 (18.2%) 
Source: NP25737 Final CSR, data output: outputt_lb_shift_SE 
n=11 
Grade 2: 0 (0%) 
Grade 3: 4 (36.4%) 
Grade 4: 0 (0%) 
Source: NP25737 Final CSR, data output: output t_lb_shift_SE 
 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
n=51 
Grade 2: 3 (5.9%) 
Grade 3: 1 (2.0%) 
Grade 4: 1 (2.0%) 
Source: WA 28118 Final CSR data output:t_lb_shift_SE_LIVER.out 
n=51 
Grade 2: 1 (2.0%) 
Grade 3: 1 (2.0%) 
Grade 4: 0 (0%) 
Source: WA 28118 Final CSR data output:t_lb_shift_SE_LIVER.out  
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 14 
  WA42380 
  ML42528 
  WA42511 
ALT shift from baseline 
AST shift from baseline 
PBO: (n=141) 
Grade 1: 48 (34.0%)   
Grade 2: 15 (10.6%)   
Grade 3: 5 (3.5%)  
Grade 4: 1 (0.7%)  
Source: WA42380 Final CSR 
PBO: (n=125) 
Grade 1: 36 (28.8%) 
Grade 2: 1 (0.8%) 
Grade 3: 3 (2.4%) 
Grade 4: 0 
Source: ML42528 Final CSR 
PBO+RDV: (n= 210) 
Grade 1: 74 (35.2%) 
Grade 2: 15 (7.1%) 
Grade 3: 9 (4.3%) 
Grade 4: 4 (1.9%) 
Source: WA42511 Final CSR 
TCZ 8 mg/kg: (n=288) 
Grade 1: 122 (42.4%) 
Grade 2: 24 (8.3%) 
Grade 3: 13 (4.5%) 
Grade 4: 4 (1.4%) 
Source: WA42380 Final CSR 
TCZ: (n=247) 
Grade 1: 84 (34%) 
Grade 2: 18 (7.3%) 
Grade 3: 2 (0.8%) 
Grade 4: 3 (1.2%) 
Source: ML42528 Final CSR 
PBO: (n=135) 
Grade 1: 35 (25.9%) 
Grade 2: 9 (6.7%) 
Grade 3: 3 (2.2%) 
Grade 4: 3 (2.2%) 
Source: WA42380 Final CSR 
PBO: (n=125) 
Grade 1: 26 (20.8%) 
Grade 2: 0 
Grade 3: 2 (1.6%) 
Grade 4: 0 
Source: ML42528 Final CSR 
TCZ+RDV: (n=417) 
Grade 1: 217 (52%) 
Grade 2: 44 (10.6%) 
Grade 3: 21 (5%) 
Grade 4: 3 (0.7%) 
Source: WA42511 Final CSR 
PBO+RDV: (n= 210) 
Grade 1: 66 (31.4%) 
Grade 2: 8 (3.8%) 
Grade 3: 10 (4.8%) 
Grade 4: 5 (2.4%) 
Source: WA42511 Final CSR 
TCZ 8 mg/kg: (n=265) 
Grade 1: 94 (35.5%) 
Grade 2: 21 (7.9%) 
Grade 3: 7 (2.6%) 
Grade 4: 5 (1.9%) 
Source: WA42380 Final CSR 
TCZ: (n=247) 
Grade 1: 61 (24.7%) 
Grade 2: 3 (1.2%) 
Grade 3: 2 (0.8%) 
Grade 4: 2 (0.8%) 
Source: ML42528 Final CSR 
TCZ+RDV: (n=417) 
Grade 1: 182 (43.6%) 
Grade 2: 23 (5.5%) 
Grade 3: 12 (2.9%) 
Grade 4: 3 (0.7%) 
Source: WA42511 Final CSR 
Bilirubin shift from baseline 
14 Data are limited to those that were “not high” at baseline from the shift table. A pooled assessment was not conducted as the frequency and 
timing of scheduled laboratory measurements was different. Individual study data are presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
IV RA All Exposure (02 May 2012)  
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52) 
Placebo + DMARD (n=1009) 
> ULN to 3 x ULN: 9 (0.9%) 
> 3×ULN: 1 (0.1%) 
All TCZ (n=2009) 
> ULN to 3xULN: 172 (8.6%) 
> 3×ULN: 1 (0.05%) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety RA (IV), Table 46 (p.149) 
(n=4149) 
• 
• 
>ULN: 673 (16.2%)  
> 3× ULN: 3 
>ULN and ≤ 3xULN:  
•  PBO + MTX: 2.8% 
•  TCZ 8 mg/kg + PBO: 8.9% 
•  TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX: 6.2% 
•  TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX: 13.8%  
SC RA (Week 24) 
10% of patients in each arm experienced a shift from normal at baseline to a worst post-
baseline value between >than the ULN and < 3×ULN (10% SC vs. 11% IV).   
One patient in the SC arm experienced a shift from normal to between >3×ULN and 
≤ 5×ULN.   
No patient experienced a shift from normal to >5×ULN. 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU Data 
Cut October 2012)   
Two patients experienced a worst post-baseline total bilirubin elevation of ≤ 3 × ULN in 
the SC arm.   
No patients experienced a shift to >3x ULN in the IV, IV-to-SC, and SC-to-IV arms 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 1 post-baseline) 
•  PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 1/50 (2.0%) 
•  PBO+ 52-week prednisone taper:  3/51 (5.9%) 
 
 
 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
•  TCZ 162 mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 9/100 (9.0%) 
•  TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 6/49 (12.2%) 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 2 post-baseline)  
•  PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 0/50 (0.0%) 
•  PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  0/51 (0.0%) 
•  TCZ 162 mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 4/100 (4.0%) 
•  TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 1/49 (2.0%) 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 3 or 4 post-baseline)  
•  None 
>ULN-1.5XULN (Grade 1) 
•  All TCZ 18/187 (9.6%) 
>1.5-3XULN (Grade 2) 
•  All TCZ 14/187 (7.5%) 
>3-10XULN (Grade 3) 
•  All TCZ 1/187 (0.5%) 
>10XULN (Grade 4) 
•  All TCZ 1/187 (0.5%) 
Source: WA 19977 Week 104 Final CSR Table 43 (p.159) 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 1 post-baseline) 
TCZ SC Q3W (<30kg): 1/27 (3.7%) 
TCZ SC Q2W (>30kg): 3/25 (12.0%) 
• 
• 
•  All TCZ SC: 4/52 (7.7%) 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 2 post-baseline) 
TCZ SC Q3W (<30kg): 0 
TCZ SC Q2W (> 30kg): 0 
• 
• 
•  All TCZ SC: 0 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 3 or 4 post-baseline) 
TCZ SC Q3W (<30kg): 0 
TCZ SC Q2W (> 30kg): 0 
• 
• 
•  All TCZ SC: 0 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety, Table 36 (pp.98-99) 
 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA Week 260 
> ULN to 1.5xULN (Grade 1) 
•  Placebo 0 
•  All TCZ 2/75 (2.7%) 
> 1.5xULN to 3xULN (Grade 2) 
• 
• 
Placebo 0 
All TCZ 1/75 (1.3%) 
No Grade 3 or Grade 4 bilirubin elevations 
Source: WA 18221 Week 12 Final CSR, Table 60 
> ULN to 1.5xULN (Grade 1) 
•  All TCZ 9/112 (8%) 
> 1.5xULN to 3xULN (Grade 2) 
•  All TCZ 13/112 (11.6%) 
> 3xULN to 10xULN (Grade 3) 
•  All TCZ 2/112 (1.8%) 
No Grade 4 elevations 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety, Table 36 (pp.98-99) 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 1 post-baseline) 
IV sJIA <2 Years Week 52 
• 
TCZ 12 mg/kg: 0 
SC sJIA Week 52 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 2 post-baseline) 
• 
TCZ 12 mg/kg: 2/11 (18.2%) 
Bilirubin (shift from normal to Grade 3 or 4 post-baseline) 
• 
TCZ 12 mg/kg: 1/11 (9.1%) 
Source: NP25737 CSR, data output: t_lb_shift_SE 
n=51  
Grade 1: 4 (7.8%) 
Grade 2: 3 (5.9%) 
Grade 3 or 4: 0 (0%) 
Source: WA28118 Final CSR, data output 
 
 
 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 15 
  WA42380 
  ML42528 
  WA42511 
PBO: (n=142) 
Grade 1: 11 (7.7%) 
Grade 2: 7 (4.9%) 
Grade 3: 3 (2.1%) 
Grade 4: 1 (0.7%) 
PBO: (n=122)  
Grade 1: 2 (1.6%) 
Grade 2: 0 
Grade 3: 0 
Grade 4: 0 
PBO+RDV: (n=206) 
Grade 1: 20 (9.7%) 
Grade 2: 10 (4.9%) 
Grade 3: 0 
Grade 4: 2 (1.0%) 
TCZ: (n=283) 
Grade 1: 23 (8.1%) 
Grade 2: 2 (0.7%) 
Grade 3: 6 (2.1%) 
Grade 4: 0 
Source: WA42380 Final CSR 
TCZ: (n=242) 
Grade 1: 9 (3.7%) 
Grade 2: 4 (1.7%) 
Grade 3: 3 (1.2%) 
Grade 4: 0 
Source: ML42528 Final CSR 
TCZ+RDV: (n=413) 
Grade 1: 46 (11.1%) 
Grade 2: 19 (4.6%) 
Grade 3: 5 (1.0%) 
Grade 4: 1 (0.2%) 
Source: WA42511 Final CSR 
15 Data are limited to those that were “not high” at baseline from the shift table. A pooled assessment was not conducted as the frequency and 
timing of scheduled laboratory measurements was different. Individual study data are presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rates of Serious Hepatic AEs 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control 
population 
No serious hepatic AEs   
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Table 32 (p.76)  
IV RA All Exposure (02 May 2012)  
IV Early RA (WA19926 Week 52) 
SC RA all exposure population 
(4MSU Data Cut October 2012)   
IV pJIA Week 104 
SC pJIA Week 52 
IV sJIA Week 12 
IV sJIA Week 104 
IV sJIA Week 260 
IV sJIA <2 Years Week 52 
0.04/100PY (95% CI: 0.02, 0.09) 
No serious hepatic AEs   
No serious hepatic AEs 
0.33/100PY (95% CI: 0.01, 1.81) 
Source: WA19977 Week 104 CSR, data output; slae1_hp_ah1005  
No serious hepatic AEs for Week 52 SC pJIA 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Table 36 (pg. 98/99) 
No serious hepatic AEs 
Source: WA18221 Week 12 Final CSR Table 60 
No serious hepatic AEs 
Source: WA18221 Week 104 Final CSR, Tables 76-78 
No serious hepatic AEs 
Source: WA18221 Week 104 Final CSR, Tables 76-78 
No serious hepatic AEs 
Source: NP25737 CSR Section 7.10.2.1 
 
 
SC sJIA Week 52 
No serious hepatic AEs 
Source: WA28118 Final CSR, data output: t_lb_shift_SE_LIVER.out 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 
  Pooled data from WA42380, 
ML42528, and WA42511 
Pooled Safety-Evaluable Population: 
PBO: 1.2% 
TCZ: 1.7% 
Baseline Steroid Use subgroup:  
PBO: 1.0% 
TCZ: 1.5% 
Source: root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_SE_HEPA.out 
root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_aesi_bsteroid_SE.out 
 
 
Laboratory Abnormalities in the Post-Marketing Setting: 
IV RA (WA25204 (ENTRACTE)) Open Label CV Outcome, No Fixed Duration 
Of the 1538 patients with moderate to severe RA and treated with tocilizumab, elevations in ALT 
or AST >3 x ULN occurred in 5.3% and 2.2% patients, respectively (Clinical Study Report – 
Study WA25204 Addendum). 
Rates of Serious Hepatic AEs in the Post-Marketing Setting: 
IV RA (WA25204 (ENTRACTE)) Open label CV outcome, No fixed duration 
Three serious hepatic events occurred on the TCZ arm (event rate 0.1, 95% CI [0.01, 
0.21]). The events were: 
• Hepatitis (2 cases) and Hepatic Encephalopathy (1 case). 
In a post-marketing analysis of this study, an external adjudication panel assessed 1 
case with the event of hepatitis as related to TCZ. The outcome, for this same case of 
hepatitis, was resolved. 
Source: Clinical Study Report – Study WA25204 (Addendum) 
Seriousness/outcomes 
Mild and moderate elevations of hepatic transaminases have been observed with TCZ 
treatment. Increased frequency of these elevations was observed when drugs, which are 
known to cause hepatotoxicity (e.g. MTX), were used in combination with tocilizumab.  
Serious DILI, including acute liver failure, hepatitis, and jaundice, have been observed 
with tocilizumab. Cases of liver failure resulting in liver transplantation have been 
reported. In post-marketing analysis of study WA25204, one serious event of drug-
induced hepatitis with hyperbilirubinemia was reported in association with tocilizumab 
treatment which resolved.  
Severity and nature of risk: 
Eight cases were assessed as TCZ-related moderate-severe liver injury. Overall the 
median latency for these cases was 98 days (range: 14 to 1825 days). The cases 
include two cases of acute liver failure/liver transplant, five cases of CTCAE Grade 4 
hepatotoxicity, and one case with Grade 2 hepatotoxicity. These eight TCZ-related DILI 
cases represent a small proportion of the estimated 1,066,849 patients exposed to TCZ 
to date, resulting in a crude rate of ~8 cases/1,000,000 patients, representing a rare 
event frequency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact on Quality of Life 
Serious DILI, including acute liver failure, hepatitis, and jaundice, have been observed 
with tocilizumab. Cases of liver failure resulting in liver transplantation have been 
reported. 
In RA, GCA, pJIA, and sJIA, ALT/AST should be monitored every 4 to 8 weeks for the 
first 6 months of treatment followed by every 12 weeks thereafter. The recommended 
dose modifications, including tocilizumab discontinuation, should be based on 
transaminases levels, in line with SmPC Section 4.2. For ALT or AST elevations  >  3–5 
x ULN, RoActemra treatment should be interrupted (RoActemra EU SmPC). 
In COVID-19 patients, ALT/AST should be monitored according to current standard 
clinical practices. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Treatment with tocilizumab particularly when administered concomitantly with MTX, may 
be associated with elevations in hepatic transaminases; therefore, caution should be 
exercised when considering treatment of any patients with active hepatic disease or 
hepatic impairment. 
Patients hospitalized with COVID-19 frequently have elevated ALT or AST levels. 
Multiorgan failure with involvement of the liver is recognized as a complication of severe 
COVID-19. (Zhang et al. 2020a). 
Preventability 
In all indications other than COVID-19, caution should be exercised when considering 
initiation of tocilizumab treatment in patients with elevated transaminases ALT or AST 
above 1.5 × ULN. In patients with elevated ALT or AST above 5 × ULN, treatment is not 
recommended. 
In RA, GCA, pJIA, and sJIA, ALT/AST should be monitored every 4 to 8 weeks for the 
first 6 months of treatment followed by every 12 weeks thereafter. The recommended 
dose modifications, including tocilizumab discontinuation, based on transaminases 
levels, in line with SmPC Section 4.2. For ALT or AST elevations > 3–5 x ULN, 
RoActemra treatment should be interrupted. 
In patients with COVID-19, monitoring of ALT/AST according to current standard clinical 
practices is recommended. In patients with COVID-19 with elevated ALT or 
AST > 10 ×  ULN, initiation of treatment with tocilizumab is not recommended.  
Impact on the Benefit-risk Balance of the Product 
The frequency of the observed serious hepatotoxicity events is considered rare and the 
benefit-risk profile of tocilizumab in the approved indications remains favorable. 
 
 
The risk of hepatotoxicity is described in the tocilizumab SmPC, Patient Information 
Leaflet, and Educational Materials for Healthcare professionals and patients and also 
provides information regarding AST/ALT monitoring to help mitigate and manage the 
risk. The recommended tocilizumab dose modification (reduction, interruption or 
discontinuation) are already mentioned in the approved labels. Given the well-described 
and managed safety profile of TCZ and the known efficacy, the MAH concludes that the 
benefit-risk of TCZ in the indicated treatment populations remains positive.  
Public Health Impact 
None identified. 
Information on Important Potential Risks 
Thrombocytopenia and the Potential Risk of Bleeding 
MedDRA terms: Haematopoietic thrombocytopenia (SMQ), Thrombocytopenia SMQ 
wide  
Laboratory data analysis based on CTCAE grades: 
Grade 1: 75,000/mm3 - < lower limit of normal (LLN)  
Grade 2: 50,000 - <75,000/mm3 
Grade 3: 25,000 - <50,000/mm3 
Grade 4: <25,000/mm3 
Potential mechanisms:  
Thrombocytosis is among the most common extra-articular manifestations of RA and IL-
6 administration results in substantial increase in platelets that could be explained by 
enhanced thrombopoiesis through induction of thrombopoietin. Thus, reduction 
(normalization) of platelet count may be expected with inhibition of the IL-6 receptors. 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term extensions, as described 
within this RMP, provide the strongest evidence.  
Characterization of the risk: 
Background incidence/prevalence 
RA, sJIA, pJIA, GCA, and CAR T-cell CRS 
Patients with RA are frequently on concomitant medications, including MTX and steroids 
that may reduce platelet count. 
 
COVID-19 
A meta-analysis of 22 studies (4889 patients) from China published between December 
2019 and April 2020 showed that 10.9%; 95% CI (8.1-13.6) of COVID-19 patients had 
thrombocytopenia. The platelet count in severe COVID-19 patients was 14.47 × 109/L; 
95% CI (33.0-4.06), which was not significantly lower than that in non-severe patients 
(Jin et al. 2020). A study of 1,476 COVID-19 patients in Wuhan, China, reported 20.7% 
had thrombocytopenia during hospitalization. Compared with survivors, non-survivors 
were older, were more likely to have thrombocytopenia and had lower nadir platelet 
counts. The study concluded that thrombocytopenia is common in patients with 
COVID-19 and is associated with increased risk of in-hospital mortality (Yang et al. 
2020a).  
Among 191 COVID-19 patients, 7% had thrombocytopenia on admission (Zhou et al. 
2020). 15 out of 21 non-survivors (8% of the total cohort) admitted to hospital in Wuhan 
developed overt disseminated intravascular coagulation (≥5points) according to the 
International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis diagnostic criteria (Tang et al. 
2020a).  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Significantly lower platelet count has been associated with over 5-fold enhanced risk of 
severe COVID-19 (OR: 5.13; 95% CI: 1.81–14.58) (Lippi et al. 2020). 
Mortality 
A meta-analysis showed that there was a significant difference in platelet count between 
survivors and non-survivors COVID-19 patients. The mean difference of platelet count 
between survivors and non-survivors was 38.37 × 109/L; 95% CI (55.79-20.94) (Jin et al. 
2020). Among 54 non-survivor COVID-19 patients, thrombocytopenia was present in 
20% of the cases (Zhou et al. 2020). A study investigated the prognostic factors of 
28-day mortality of severely affected COVID-19 patients and the association between 
mortality and the administration of low molecular weight heparin for at least 7 days. 
Elevated D-dimer, prolonged PT, increased age, and lower platelet count were 
associated with higher 28-day mortality (Tang et al. 2020b). 
 
Platelet Laboratory Data 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
PBO+DMARD (n=1010) 
Grade 1: 12 (1.2%) 
Grade 2:  2 (<1%) 
Grade 3:  1 (<1%) 
Grade 4:  0 
TCZ 4 mg/kg +MTX (n=611) 
Grade 1: 40 (6.5%) 
Grade 2:  2 (<1%) 
Grade 3-4:  0 
TCZ 8 mg/kg +DMARD (n=1407) 
Grade 1: 133 (9.5%) 
Grade 2:  3 (<1%) 
Grade 3:  3 (<1%) 
Grade 4:  1 (<1%) 
IV RA All Exposure (02 May 2012)  
Summary of Clinical Safety RA (IV) (Table 86 p. 232) 
(n= 4163) 
Normal: 3371 (81.0%) 
Grade 1: 711 (17.1%) 
Grade 2:  53 (1.3%) 
Grade 3:  18 (0.4%) 
Grade 4:  10 (0.2%) 
Source: Safety Update of IV TCZ Adult RA Studies (Data cutoff date 2 May 2012) 
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52) 
PBO + MTX (n= 282) 
Grade 1: 5 (1.8%) 
Grade 2:  0 (0.0%) 
Grade 3:  1 (0.4%) 
Grade 4:  1 (0.4%) 
 
 
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX (n= 289) 
Grade 1: 19 (6.6%) 
Grade 2: 1 (0.3%) 
Grade 3: 1 (0.3%) 
Grade 4:  0 (0.0%) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX (n=290) 
Grade 1: 25 (8.6%) 
Grade 2: 0 (0.0%) 
Grade 3: 0 (0.0%) 
Grade 4: 1 (0.3%) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg +PBO (n=292) 
Grade 1: 24 (8.2%) 
Grade 2: 3 (1.0%) 
Grade 3-4: 0 (0.0%) 
Grade 3 and 4 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 0 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 0 
SC RA (Week 24)  
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU Data 
Cut October 2012)   
Grade 3 and 4 
TCZ 8 mg/kg IV to TCZ 162 mg QW:  1/186 (0.54%) 
TCZ PFS Q2W:1/170 (0.58%) 
There were 0 events in all remaining treatment group 
 
SC GCA (Week 52)  
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper (n=50) 
Grade 1-4: 0 (0%) 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper (n=51) 
Grade 1: 1 (2.0%) 
Grade 2-4: 0 (0%) 
TCZ 162mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper (n=100)  
Grade 1: 7 (7%) 
Grade 2-4: 0 (0%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + 26-week prednisone taper (n=49) 
Grade 1: 5 (10.2%) 
Grade 2-4: 0 (0%) 
Source: WA28119 Week 52 CSR, pp1891 
n=188 
Grade 1: 17 (9.0%) 
Grade 2: 1 (0.5%) 
Grade 3: 1 (0.5%) 
Grade 4: 1 (0.5%) 
Source: WA 19977 Week 104 Final CSR, Table 30 (p.155)   
n=52 
Grade 3-4: 0 (0%) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety pJIA (SC), Table 35 (p.95)   
Placebo:  
Grade 1: 1/34 (2.9%) 
All TCZ: 
Grade 1: 6/75 (8.0%) 
All TCZ Thrombocytopenia AE rate:  
Placebo: 0/100PY 
All TCZ: 0/100PY  
Source: WA 18221 Final CSR; data output: stlb22_btow 
Grade 1: 34/112 (30.6 %) 
Grade 2: 1/112 (0.9%) 
Grade 3: 3/112 (2.7%) 
All TCZ Thrombocytopenia AE rate: 10.7/100PY (95% CI: 7.59-14.59) 
 
 
IV sJIA <2 Years (Week 52) 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 16 
  WA42380 
  ML42528 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 CSR Section 7.10.1.4 Table 46 (p. 143) 
Grade 1: 1/11 (10.0%)  
Grade 2: 1 (9.1%) 
Thrombocytopenia AE rate: 27.2/100PY (95% CI: 3.29, 98.10) 
Source: NP25737 CSR, data output: t_ae_rate_THROMBR_SE 
n=51   
Grade 3 and 4: 0 (0%)  
Source: WA28118 Final CSR 
PBO: n=122 
Grade 1: 19 (15.6%) 
Grade 2: 3 (2.5%) 
Grade 3: 1 (0.8%) 
Grade 4: 0 
TCZ: n=258 
Grade 1: 49 (19.0%) 
Grade 2: 8 (3.1%) 
Grade 3: 7 (2.7%) 
Grade 4: 3 (1.2%) 
Source: WA42380 Final CSR 
PBO: n = 112 
Grade 1: 7 (6.3%) 
Grade 2: 0 
Grade 3: 0 
Grade 4: 0 
16 Data are limited to those that were “not low” at baseline from the shift table. A pooled assessment was not conducted as the frequency and timing 
of scheduled laboratory measurements was different. Individual study data are presented. 
 
 
 
  WA42511 
TCZ: n = 220 
Grade 1: 13 (5.9%) 
Grade 2: 1 (0.5%) 
Grade 3: 0 
Grade 4: 1 (0.5%)  
Source: ML42528 Final CSR 
PBO: n=194 
Grade 1: 29 (14.9%) 
Grade 2: 2 (1.0%) 
Grade 3: 3 (1.5%) 
Grade 4: 0 
TCZ: n=386 
Grade 1: 98 (25.4%) 
Grade 2: 11 (2.8%) 
Grade 3: 10 (2.6%) 
Grade 4: 1 (0.3%) 
Source: WA42511 Final CSR 
 
 
 
 
 
Seriousness/outcomes 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
No association between decreases in platelet counts and serious bleeding events has 
been reported. 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU Data Cut October 2012) 
In the SC RA all exposure population (N=1465), no events of thrombocytopenia led to 
withdrawal and 20 events of thrombocytopenia or platelet count decreased led to dose 
modification.  
No association between decreases in platelet counts and serious bleeding events were 
reported nor was there a relationship between body weight and the incidence of 
thrombocytopenia. 
Severity and nature of risk 
Please refer to seriousness/outcomes. For Thrombocytopenia severity grading see the 
frequency with 95% CI.  
Impact on Quality of Life 
There is a risk that a patient’s platelet count may decrease when they are taking TCZ. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
None identified 
Preventability 
Caution is to be exercised when considering initiating treatment in patients with platelet 
count <100 x 109/L. Monitoring during treatment is recommended and dose modification 
or treatment discontinuation is recommended based upon platelet count. In patients who 
develop a platelet count <  50 x 103/μL, continued treatment is not recommended.  
In COVID-19 patients with platelet count <50×103/µL, initiation of treatment is not 
recommended. 
For patients with COVID-19, monitoring of platelet counts according to current standard 
clinical practices is recommended.  
Impact on the Benefit-Risk Balance of the Product 
Thrombocytopenia is a risk of TCZ treatment; however, the SmPC, Patient Information 
Leaflet, and Educational Materials for Healthcare professionals and patients, mitigate the 
risk and severity and also provide information regarding managing the risk. 
Public Health Impact 
None identified. 
 
Elevated Lipid Levels and Potential Risk of 
Cardiovascular/Cerebrovascular Events 
MedDRA terms: Myocardial infarction SMQ narrow, Ischaemic Cerebrovascular or 
Hemorrhagic Cerebrovascular SMQ narrow, Roche Standard AEGT: lipid laboratory 
parameters 
Potential mechanisms: 
As has been observed with other biological DMARDs, increases in lipid parameters may 
reflect the pharmacodynamic effect of TCZ on suppression of inflammation in patients 
with RA. 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term extensions, as described 
within this RMP, provide the strongest evidence.  
Characterization of the risk: 
Background incidence/prevalence 
RA, sJIA, pJIA, GCA, and CAR T-cell CRS 
Myocardial infarction:  
10 per 1000 PY in RA patients; 7.1/1000 PY in patients without arthritis (Watson et al. 
2003) 
MI in RA patients:  0.53 per 100 PY compared with 0.28 per 100 PY in non-RA patients 
(Solomon et al.2006,  Suissa et al. 2006) 
Cerebrovascular events 
0.51 per 100 PY (Solomon et al.2006), (Solomon et al.2012) 
Congestive heart failure 
to 0.5 per 100 PY in the general population with a steep rise with increasing age 
(Murray-Thomas and Cowie et al. 2003) 
2.0 per 100 PY in RA (Nicola et al. 2005) 
 
COVID-19 
The prevalence of elevated lipid levels such as hyperlipidemia, dyslipidemia, and 
hypercholesterolemia in patients with COVID-19 ranged from 5% to 46.2% (Zhang et al. 
2020b; Grasselli et al. 2020; Lodigiani et al. 2020; Petrilli et al. 2020). The low 
prevalence of 5% for hyperlipidemia was observed from a study of 140 hospitalized 
COVID-19 patients in China (Zhang et al. 2020b). In Europe, a retrospective case series 
of 1,591 Italian ICU patients with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 found 18% had 
hypercholesterolemia (Grasselli et al. 2020). Among 388 Italian COVID-19 patients 
admitted to either ICU or general ward, 19.6% had dyslipidemia (Lodigiani et al. 2020). 
Studies from the United States found relatively higher prevalence of elevated lipid 
profiles compared to studies from Europe and China: of 5,279 COVID-19 patients 
identified between 1 March 2020 and 8 April 2020 in New York, 32.5% had 
hyperlipidemia (Petrilli et al. 2020). 
The COVID-19-Associated Hospitalization Surveillance Network (COVID-NET) 
estimated that as of 28 February  2021, in the United States, the prevalence of CVD was 
36.7% in adults and 5.5% in paediatric COVID-19 hospitalized patients (COVID-NET). A 
retrospective study of 393 COVID-19 patients in the United States between 3 and 27 
March 2020, reported 54 (13.7%) patients had coronary artery disease at the baseline. 
Heart failure and myocardial infarction was reported in 1.8% and 3.6% of patients, 
respectively as an in-hospital complication (Goyal et al. 2020).  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with underlying CVD are at higher risk for severe illness from COVID-19 (CDC 
2020b). Of 41 Chinese COVID-19 patients admitted to hospital, 6 (15%) had underlying 
CVD; patients with CVD comprised 23% of those requiring ICU care and 11% of those 
who did not (Huang et al. 2020).  
Mortality 
In a study on 107 COVID-19 patients, 2 patients died due to acute myocardial infarction 
and sudden cardiac arrest respectively, accounting for an overall mortality of 2.0% due 
to CVD. Cardiovascular disease was found to be associated with increased risk (OR: 
7.972) of death in COVID-19 patients as compared to patients without underlying CVD 
(Wang et al. 2020). COVID-19 patients with pre-existing cardiac injury had a significantly 
higher in-hospital mortality rate (42 of 82 [51.2%]) compared with those without 
myocardial injury (15 of 335 [4.5%]). Among patients with myocardial injury, Troponin I 
elevation was associated with higher mortality rates (Shi et al. 2020). 
 
Myocardial Infarctions 
Rates of Serious Myocardial Infarction 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
Control: 0.49/100 PY 
TCZ 4 mg/kg + DMARD: 0.18/100 PY 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARD: 0.17/100 PY 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
0.27/100PY (95% CI: 0.20, 0.36) events per 100 PYs 
IV Early RA (WA19926 Week 52)  
SC RA Week 24 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU 
October 2012) 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
PBO + MTX:  0 
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX:  1.1/100PY (0.2, 3.3)  
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX: 0.4/100PY (0.0, 2.1)  
TCZ 8 mg/kg +PBO: 0.4/100PY (0.0, 2.1) 
PBO + DMARD: 0/100 PY 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 0.35/ 100 PY (95% CI: 0.01, 1.92) 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 0/100 PY  
0.19/100 PY (95% CI: 0.04, 0.55) 
 
 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 17 
  Pooled data from WA42380, ML42528, 
and WA42511 
Pooled Safety-Evaluable Population: 
PBO: 0.6% 
TCZ: 0.7% 
Baseline Steroid Use subgroup:  
PBO:  1.0% 
TCZ: 0.7% 
Source: root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_SE_MI.out 
root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_aesi_bsteroid_SE.out 
17 Events include both serious and non-serious occurrences. The three COVID-19 studies use wide SMQ for the relevant outputs. 
 
 
 
 
Lipids (baseline to last observation)  
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU October 
2012) 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population  
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52) 
Increase in LDL from < 100 to ³ 160 mg/dL (4.1 mmol/L):  
TCZ 162mg QW + DMARD: 5/631 (0.8%) 
TCZ 162mg Q2W + DMARD: 4/437 (0.9%)  
Placebo + DMARD: 0/218 
PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  0 
TCZ PBO PFS Q2W to TCZ PFS Q2W:  0 
162mg QW + DMARD: 6/521 (1.2%) 
TCZ 8 mg/kg IV to TCZ 162 mg QW:  4/186 (2.2%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW to TCZ 8 mg/kg IV:  0 
TCZ PFS Q2W:  1/170 (0.6%) 
TCZ PFS Q2W to TCZ AI Q2W:  3/168 (1.8%) 
Lipid Elevations from <130 mg/dL at baseline to ≥ 130 mg/dL at the last observation: 
PBO+DMARD: 4% (89/653)   
Source: Clinical summary RA IV, p. 185 
Lipid Elevations ≥ 130 mg/dL and < 160 mg/dL: 
150/4171 patients (3.6%) with baseline LDL cholesterol values < 100 mg/dL   
Lipid Elevations ≥ 160 mg/dL: 
43/4171 patients (1.0%)  
169/4171 patients (4.1%)   
241/4171 patients (5.8%) 
At baseline, majority of patients had LDL cholesterol levels < 160 mg/dL.   
Shifts from levels < 160 mg/dL at baseline to ≥ 160 mg/dL at the last observation, 
more frequent in the TCZ treatment groups than in the placebo + MTX group.  
Highest incidence of shifts to ³ 160 mg/dL in the TCZ 8 mg/kg + placebo groups 
followed by the TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX and then the TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX groups. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rates of Serious Stroke (combined ischemic, hemorrhagic including transient ischemic attacks) and marked laboratory 
abnormalities 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
Control: 0.24/100 PYs 
4 mg/kg + DMARD:  0//100 PYs 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARD: 0.33/100 PYs 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012)  0.32/100 PY (95% CI: 0.24, 0.42)  
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52)  
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU 
October 2012) 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
PBO + MTX:  0.8/100PY (0.1, 2.8)  
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX: 0.8/100PY (0.1, 2.8)  
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX: 0/100PY 
TCZ 8 mg/kg +PBO: 0/100PY 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 0/100PY  
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 0/100PY 
Placebo + DMARD: 0/100PY 
0.25 events per 100 PYs (95% CI: 0.07, 0.64) 
Marked Laboratory Abnormalities: 
Total Cholesterol (> 18.30 mmol/L and ≥  30% increase): 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 1/50 (2.0%) 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  2/51 (3.9%) 
TCZ 162mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 2/100 (2.0%) 
TCZ 162mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 2/49 (4.1%) 
High LDL Cholesterol (> 5.4mmol/L and ≥  30% increase): 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 1/50 (2.0%) 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  0/51 (0.0%) 
TCZ 162mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 2/100 (2.0%) 
 
 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 1/49 (2.0%) 
– No patient experienced serious myocardial infarction during study 
Marked Laboratory Abnormalities: 
Total Cholesterol >=170 mg/dL: 
All TCZ 78/185 (42.2%) 
High LDL Cholesterol (>=130 mg/dL): 
All TCZ 10/185 (5.4%) 
Source: WA19977 Week 104 CSR Tables 44- 45; data output: stdm1_elv_ldl 
Rates of serious myocardial infarction:  
TCZ SC Q3W (<30kg): 0  
TCZ SC Q2W (> 30kg): 0  
All TCZ SC: 0  
Marked Laboratory Abnormalities:  
Total Cholesterol (>= 200md/dL post-baseline) (patients with baseline elevations are 
excluded):  
All TCZ SC: 6/47 (12.8%) 
High LDL Cholesterol (>=130 mg/dL post-baseline) (patients with baseline elevations are 
excluded):  
All TCZ SC: 7/49 (14.3%)  
Source: SCS pJIA SC Table 37 (p.103); data output: t_lb_elev_SE 
Rates of serious myocardial infarction:  
No events of serious myocardial infarction 
Marked Laboratory Abnormalities:  
Total Cholesterol (>=240 md/dL post-baseline):  
Placebo: 1/37 (3.0%) 
All TCZ: 6/75 (8.0%) 
High LDL Cholesterol (>=160 mg/dL post-baseline):  
Placebo: 1/37 (3.0%) 
All TCZ: 3/69 (4.3%) 
Source: WA18221 Week 12 Final CSR Tables 64-65 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
Rates of serious myocardial infarction:  
 
sJIA IV < 2 Years (Week 52)  
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
Not Assessed18 
Marked Laboratory Abnormalities:  
Total Cholesterol ( ³  200 mg/dL post-baseline):  
All TCZ: 37/110 (33.6%)  
High LDL Cholesterol (>=130 mg/dL post-baseline):  
All TCZ IV: 18/105 (17.1%)  
Source: WA18221 Week 260 CSR, (p.26) 
Rates of serious myocardial infarction:  
Not assessed 
 Marked Laboratory Abnormalities:  
Total Cholesterol (>=200 md/dL post-baseline):  
All TCZ: 5/11 (45.5%) 
High LDL Cholesterol (>=130 mg/dL post-baseline):  
All TCZ: 3/11 (27.3%) 
Source: CSR NP25737 Section 6.8.8; data outputs: t_lb_elve_SE; t_lb_shift_SE 
Rates of serious myocardial infarction:  
All TCZ 0 
Marked Laboratory Abnormalities:  
Total cholesterol ( >=200 md/dL post-baseline) (patients with baseline elevations are 
excluded): 
All TCZ 17/48 (35.4%) 
High LDL Cholesterol ( >=130 mg/dL post-baseline) (patients with baseline elevations are 
excluded):  
All TCZ 11/47 (23.4%) 
Source: Final CSR WA28118 Section 6.8.7; data output: SA996_t_lb_elev_chol1_SCS_SE   
18 Serious myocardial infarction was not assessed since it is not generally applicable to the paediatric population.   
 
 
 
 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60) 19 
  Pooled data from WA42380, ML42528, 
WA42511 
Pooled Safety-Evaluable Population: 
PBO: 3.3% 
TCZ: 2.0% 
Baseline Steroid Use subgroup:  
PBO: 3.5% 
TCZ: 2.2% 
Source: root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_SE_STROKE.out 
root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_aesi_bsteroid_SE.out 
19 Events include both serious and non-serious occurrences. The three COVID-19 studies use wide SMQ for relevant outputs.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seriousness/outcomes 
In the TCZ clinical trials, no association between increases in lipids and cardiovascular 
morbidity has been identified to date. 
Severity and nature of risk 
Elevations in LDL cholesterol responded to treatment with lipid-lowering agents. 
In the TCZ clinical trials, no association between increases in lipids and cardiovascular 
morbidity has been identified to date 
Impact on Quality of Life 
Increases in total cholesterol, LDL, and triglyceride levels have been observed in 
patients following treatment with TCZ. The relationship of these elevations and the risk 
for cardiovascular/cerebrovascular disease is unknown. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
None identified 
Preventability: 
Lipid parameters such as total cholesterol, triglycerides, and/or low LDL should be 
monitored during the first 4-8 weeks of TCZ treatment. Patients should be managed 
according to local clinical guidelines for management of hyperlipidemia. 
Impact on the benefit-risk balance of the product: 
Increases in total cholesterol, LDL, and triglycerides have been observed following TCZ 
treatment. The TCZ SmPC, Patient Information Leaflet, Educational Materials for 
Healthcare professionals and patients, mitigate the risk severity and also provide 
information regarding managing the risk.  
Public health impact: 
Potential impact on public health is minimal given the low frequency of 
cardiovascular/cerebrovascular complications. 
Malignancies 
MedDRA terms: Malignancies SMQ narrow 
Potential mechanisms:  
TCZ is an immunosuppressive agent and may therefore result in an increased risk of 
malignancy. 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term extensions, as described 
within this RMP, provide the strongest evidence.  
 
Characterization of the risk: 
Background incidence/prevalence 
RA, sJIA, pJIA, GCA, and CAR T-cell CRS 
A higher risk of cancer has consistently been reported in RA patients compared with the 
general population. This risk appears to be particularly higher for lymphoproliferative 
malignancies such as non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and multiple myeloma in RA patients 
compared with the general population (Mellemkjaer et al.1996; Prior et al.1985). 
Incidence rates for the TNFα inhibitor users from observational studies ranged from 0.38 
events per 100 PY (Du Pan et al. 2009) to 1.9 events per 100 PY (excluding Non-
Malignant skin cancer (NMSC); CIs not reported) (Setoguchi et al. 2006) 
COVID-19 
In a systematic review of 17 studies involving 32,404 patients worldwide, the pooled 
prevalence of malignancies was 3.5% (95% CI: 1.7, 5.8), and ranged from 0.5% to 21% 
in COVID-19 patients (Ofori-Asenso et al. 2020).  
A meta-analysis was performed of 11 studies including a total of 3,661 Chinese 
COVID-19 patients. In studies with less than 100 patients, the overall prevalence of 
malignancies was 3.0% (95% CI: 1%, 6%), but in studies with more than 100 patients, 
the overall prevalence was 2.0% (95% CI: 1%, 3%) (Desai 2020). In a retrospective 
study of 388 hospitalized Italian COVID-19 patients between 13 February 
and .10 April 2020, 6.4% of patients had active cancer. Prevalence was 3.3% and 7.0%, 
in ICU patients and general ward patients, respectively (Lodigiani 2020). 
A retrospective multicenter study including 105 COVID-19 patients with cancer reported 
a case fatality of 11.4%. COVID-19 patients with cancer had an odds ratio of 2.17 (95% 
CI:  − 0.806, 5.149; p =  0.064) for fatality as compared to the patients without cancer (Dai 
2020). Another retrospective study from Turkey reported that among 4489 patients 
hospitalized with COVID-19, 1.6% of the patients had cancer. The mortality among 
cancer patients due to COVID-19 was significantly higher as compared to non-cancer 
patients (23.9% vs. 1.51%) (Erdal et al. 2021). 
 
Rates of Medically Confirmed Malignancy including NMSC20 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52)  
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU 
October 2012) 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
PBO: 1.48/100PY (0.74, 2.65) 
TCZ 4 mg/kg + DMARD: 1.6/100 PY 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + DMARD: 0.7/100 PY 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety RA (IV) Table 90 (p.242) 
1.26 (95% CI: 1.09, 1.44) events per 100 PY  
All malignancies 
PBO + MTX:  1.2 (0.2, 3.4) per 100 PY  
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX:  1.5 (0.4, 3.9) per 100 PY 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX: 1.1 (0.2, 3.3) per 100 PY 
TCZ 8 mg/kg +PBO: 1.1 (0.2, 3.3) per 100 PY 
All malignancies 
PBO + DMARD: 0 per 100 PYs  
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 1.38/100PY (0.38, 3.53)  
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 1.64/100PY (0.34, 4.80) 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety RA (SC), Table 37, (p.89)  
All malignancies 
1.24 events per 100 PY (95% CI: 0.76, 1.92 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 4.2/100PY (95% CI 0.5-15.3) 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  2.1/100PY (95% CI 0.1-11.6) 
TCZ 162 mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 1.1/100PY (95% CI 0.0-6.0) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 0.0/100PY (95% CI 0.0-8.1) 
20 Medically Confirmed Malignancies: A medical review of all reported events from the Malignancy SMQ was performed to identify malignant 
lesions. Review was undertaken to ensure that the terms were consistent with malignancy, regardless of histological confirmation. 
 
 
 
 
 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60)  
  Pooled data from WA42380, ML42528, 
WA42511 
Pooled Safety-Evaluable Population: 
PBO: 0 
TCZ: 0.1% 
Baseline Steroid Use subgroup:  
PBO: 0 
TCZ: 0 
Source: root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_SE_MCMALIG.out 
root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_aesi_bsteroid_SE.out 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rates of serious malignancies 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA all exposure population 
(2 May 2012) 
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52)  
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU 
October 2012) 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
0.96 (95% CI: 0.82, 1.13) events per 100 PY 
PBO + MTX: 1.2 (0.2 - 3.4) / 100 PY  
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX:  1.5 (0.4 - 3.9) / 100 PY 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX: 0.4 (0.0 – 2.1) / 100 PY 
TCZ 8 mg/kg +PBO:  0.7 (0.1 – 2.7) / 100 PY 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 1.04 per 100 PY 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 1.09 per 100 PY 
Placebo + DMARD: 0 per 100 PY 
0.87 events per 100 PY (95% CI: 0.48, 1.46) 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 2.2/100PY (95% CI 0.1-12.2) 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  2.1/100PY (95% CI 0.1-11.6) 
TCZ 162 mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 0.0/100PY (95% CI 0.0-4.0) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 0.0/100PY (95% CI 0.0-8.1) 
0 events 
Source: WA19977 Final Week 104 CSR Section 1.2.4 (p. 182) 
0 events 
Source: SCS pJIA SC Section 2.1.5.1 
0 events 
Source: SCS pJIA SC Section 2.1.5.1 
Not Assessed 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 final CSR Section 3.6.7.1 (p.45) 
 
 
 
IV <2 Years (Week 52) 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
0 events 
Source: Final CSR NP25737 Section 7.9.6 
0 events 
Source: Final CSR WA28118 Section 6.8.7 
 
 
 
 
 
Seriousness/outcomes 
Not Applicable 
Severity and nature of risk 
The rates and types of malignancies observed in the IV and SC TCZ all exposure 
populations were consistent over time. 
Impact on Quality of Life: 
There have been reports of cancer in patients treated with TCZ; no individual type of 
tumor was more common than expected in this population. 
Risk factors and risk groups: 
None identified 
Preventability: 
Not applicable 
Impact on the benefit-risk balance of the product: 
There have been very few reports of cancer, and no individual tumor type predominates. 
Despite the low event rate, a potential risk cannot be excluded. TCZ treatment should 
not be started in subjects with cancer. The TCZ SmPC, Patient Information Leaflet, 
Educational Materials for Healthcare professionals and patients, mitigate the risk 
severity and also provide information regarding managing the risk. 
Public health impact: 
The risk of malignancy is known to be increased in patients with RA and with some 
treatments commonly used in RA, such as MTX and biologic DMARDs. A Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) alert was published requiring the manufacturers of TNF 
blockers to update the Boxed Warning in the prescribing information to alert healthcare 
professionals of an increased risk of lymphoma and other malignancies in children and 
adolescents treated with TNF blockers. EMEA 2010 priorities also identified the risk of 
malignancy as one of the potential long-term adverse effects of immunomodulators, 
including the anti-TNFs, rituximab, and tocilizumab. 
 Concern is high because of the seriousness of the risk; however, the public health 
impact is considered low because of the low frequency of such events. 
Demyelinating Disorders 
MedDRA terms: Demyelination (narrow SMQ) 
Potential mechanisms: 
None identified 
 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term extensions, as described 
within this RMP, provide the strongest evidence.  
Characterization of the risk: 
Background incidence/prevalence 
RA, sJIA, pJIA, GCA, and CAR T-cell CRS 
Incidence rates of demyelination events in RA patients exposed to traditional or biologic 
DMARDs were calculated based on data in subjects with no demyelination events before 
cohort entry (n=82), the calculated incidence rate of demyelinating events was 0.041 per 
100 PY (Benatsky S et al. 2010). 
COVID-19 
Evidence on demyelinating disorders such as Guillian-Barre syndrome in COVID-19 
patients is scarce in the literature. Fragiel et al. (2021) reported that the frequency of 
Guillain-Barre syndrome in patients attending 61 Spanish emergency departments 
during the first 2 months of the pandemic was 0.15% in patients with evidence of 
COVID-19 infection and 0.02% in those without COVID-19 (Fragiel 2021).  
No risk factors or data on mortality due to Guillain-Barre syndrome in COVID-19 patients 
were available in the literature. 
 
Rates of Demyelination 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA DMARD-IR all control population 
No cases identified 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
0.02 (95% CI: 0.00, 0.05) events per 100 PY 
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52)  
SC RA (Week 24) 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU October 
2012) 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
No cases identified 
TCZ 162 mg QW + DMARD: 0 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W + DMARD: 0 
Placebo + DMARD: 0 
0 events per 100 PY (95% CI: 0.00, 0.23) 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 0.0/100PY (95% CI 0.0-7.8) 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  0.0/100PY (95% CI 0.0-7.7) 
TCZ 162 mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 0.0/100PY (95% CI 0.0-4.0) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 0.0/100PY (95% CI 0.0-8.1) 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
0 events 
Source: WA19977 Final Week 104 CSR Section 1.2.9 (p. 183) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
0 events 
Source : SCS pJIA SC Section 2.1.5.1 
0 events 
Source: sJIA SCS 7.4.7.5 (p. 179) 
 
 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
IV sJIA <2 Years (Week 52) 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
TCZ indications with acute dosing regimen: 
COVID-19 (Day 60)  
Pooled data from WA42380, ML42528, WA42511 
Not Assessed 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 final CSR Section 3.6.7.1 (p.45) 
0 events 
Source: Final CSR NP25737 Section 7.9.6 
0 events 
Source: Final CSR WA28118 Section 6.8.7 
Pooled Safety-Evaluable Population: 
0 events 
Baseline Steroid Use subgroup:  
0 events 
Source: root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_SE_DEMY.out 
root/clinical_studies/RO4877533/share/pool_MA_REM_CSR/prod/output/t_ae_aesi_bsteroid_SE.out 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seriousness/outcomes 
By its nature, such events would be expected to be serious. 
Severity and nature of risk 
Refer to frequency with 95%CI and seriousness/outcomes 
Impact on Quality of Life: 
The risk of demyelination with TCZ is unknown 
Risk factors and risk groups: 
None identified 
Preventability: 
Not applicable 
Impact on the benefit-risk balance of the product: 
There have been very few reports of nerve damage (demyelination) in patients treated 
with TCZ, although the risk is unknown. The TCZ SmPC, Patient Information Leaflet, 
and Educational Materials for Healthcare professionals and patients, mitigate the risk 
and severity and also provide information regarding managing the risk. 
Public health impact: 
Not applicable 
Immunogenicity 
MedDRA terms: Not applicable 
Positive anti-TCZ antibodies were detected using confirmation assay 
Potential mechanisms:  
Immune response to the infusion or injection of a protein (IgG) 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term extensions, as described 
within this RMP, provide the strongest evidence.  
Characterization of the risk: 
Background incidence/prevalence 
Not applicable 
 
Rates of Immunogenicity (anti-TCZ antibodies) 
TCZ indications with a periodic chronic dosing regimen: 
IV RA all exposure population (2 May 2012) 
A total of 44/3945 patients tested positive for anti-TCZ antibodies, 5 of whom also 
experienced an anaphylactic reaction, while 39 did not. 
IV Early RA WA19926 (Week 52)  
Placebo + MTX: 10/282 (3.5%) [259 tested] 
TCZ 4 mg/kg + MTX: 8/289 (2.8%) [259 tested] 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + MTX: 5/290 (1.7%) [267 tested] 
TCZ 8 mg/kg + Placebo: 4/292 (1.4%) [269 tested] 
SC RA all exposure population (4MSU 
October 2012) 
SC GCA (Week 52) 
IV pJIA (Week 104) 
SC pJIA (Week 52) 
IV sJIA (Week 12) 
IV sJIA (Week 260) 
No correlation of anti-TCZ antibody development to clinical response or AEs was 
observed. 
Of the 1462 patients in the SC all exposure population who were tested for anti-TCZ 
antibodies, 20 (1.4%) patients developed anti-TCZ antibodies, and 6 (0.4%) patients 
were positive for IgE isotype.  None experienced anaphylaxis. 
PBO + 26-week prednisone taper: 1/49 (2.0%) 
PBO + 52-week prednisone taper:  1/47 (2.1%) 
TCZ 162 mg QW+ 26-week prednisone taper: 1/95 (1.1%) 
TCZ 162 mg Q2W+ 26-week prednisone taper: 3/46 (6.5%) 
ALL TCZ: 1/187 (0.5%)  
Source: WA19977 final CSR Week 104 (p.529) 
All TCZ SC: 3/52 (5.8%)  
Source: SCS pJIA SC Table 46 (pg. 115) 
Placebo: 0  
All TCZ SC: 1  
Source: WA18221 CSR  
All TCZ: 2/112 (1.8%) 
Source: WA18221 Week 260 CSR Section 6.2.3 (p.100) 
 
 
IV sJIA <2 Years (Week 52) 
SC sJIA (Week 52) 
All TCZ: 3/11 (27.3%) 
Source: CSR NP25737 data output: l_ada_PK 
All TCZ: 0/46  
Source: CSR WA28118 Section 5.4 
 
 
 
Seriousness/outcomes 
Not Applicable 
Severity and nature of risk 
No correlation between the development of anti-TCZ antibodies and serious 
hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis has been observed in clinical trials with TCZ. 
Impact on Quality of Life: 
Not applicable 
Risk factors and risk groups: 
None identified 
Preventability: 
Not known 
Impact on the benefit-risk balance of the product: 
The incidence of anti-drug antibodies to TCZ is low in patients with adult RA, pJIA, GCA, 
or sJIA. No correlation between the development of anti-TCZ antibodies and the safety 
and efficacy response to TCZ has been observed in clinical trials with TCZ (IV or SC).  
Public health impact: 
Not applicable 
SVII.3.2. Presentation of the Missing Information 
Information on Missing Information 
There is no missing information for tocilizumab requiring further characterization. 
 
PART II: MODULE SVIII - SUMMARY OF THE SAFETY 
CONCERNS 
Table 21  Summary of Safety Concerns  
Summary of Safety Concerns 
Important identified risks 
Serious infection * 
Complications of diverticulitis * 
Neutropenia 
Hepatotoxicity 
Important potential risks 
Thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of 
bleeding 
Elevated lipid levels and the potential risk of 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events 
Malignancies 
Demyelinating disorders 
Immunogenicity 
Missing information 
None 
COVID = coronavirus disease 19; TCZ = tocilizumab 
* The safety concerns “serious infection” and “complications of diverticulitis” are considered 
important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but are assessed as important potential risks for 
the indication of COVID-19. 
PART III: PHARMACOVIGILANCE PLAN (INCLUDING 
POST-AUTHORIZATION SAFETY STUDIES) 
III.1 Routine Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Routine Pharmacovigilance Activities beyond Adverse Reactions Reporting and 
Signal Detection: 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up forms (guided questionnaires [GQs]) for: 
Serious infections21 
Complications of diverticulitis (including GI perforation) 
Thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of bleeding 
Hepatotoxicity 
Elevated Lipid Levels and Potential Risk of Cardiovascular/Cerebrovascular Events 
Malignancies 
21 Routine pharmacovigilance GQ for events of special interest will collect neutrophil data in 
cases of serious infection. 
 
 
Demyelinating disorders 
The purpose of these guided questionnaires is to collect information in a standardized 
manner and monitor the frequency and nature of AEs emerging during clinical trials and 
post-marketing use. 
Please see Annex 4 of the RMP for details. 
Other forms of routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Serious infections: Collect and analyze information on hematogenous bacterial arthritis 
in the sJIA population < 18 years of age. 
Immunogenicity: Collect and analyze anti-TCZ antibodies in all patients treated with TCZ 
(routine sampling) and in patients who experience hypersensitivity that lead to study 
withdrawn (event driven sampling), in ongoing clinical trials and assess whether 
there is any correlation between the development of anti-TCZ antibodies and 
hypersensitivity or clinical response. This is specific to the ongoing clinical trials and 
does not apply to spontaneous post-marketing cases.  
III.2 Additional Pharmacovigilance Activities  
The safety concerns of serious infections, complications of diverticulitis (including GI 
perforation), neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of bleeding, 
hepatotoxicity, elevated lipid levels and potential risk of cardiovascular/cerebrovascular 
events, malignancies and demyelinating disorders in RA patients are being investigated 
in ongoing Study RABBIT (ML28664, formerly tracked as GA2871922). These safety 
concerns were also investigated in the completed Study WA22480 (ARTIS; now 
complete). Both are EU registries for epidemiological data Table 22). Study WA28029 
(ARTHUR) investigated the possibility of dose reduction for laboratory abnormalities (low 
platelets, low neutrophil, and elevated liver transaminase levels), in sJIA patients.  
The ongoing paediatric registry (WA29358) investigates long-term safety and efficacy 
data in pJIA patients (Table 23).  
22 ML28664 (formerly tracked as GA28719) was a study code duplication which has been 
corrected. 
 
 
Table 22  ML28664 (formerly tracked as GA28719) - (RABBIT) 
Study/activity short name and title:  
Long-term observation of treatment with biologics in rheumatoid arthritis 
Rationale and study objectives:  
To provide safety and effectiveness data on all licensed biologic drugs available for the 
treatment of RA 
Study design:  
Phase IV – 2nd study extension; prospective observational cohort study 
Study populations:  
Patients with rheumatoid arthritis  
Milestones:  
First Patient First Visit: Q1 2009 
Annual updates will be provided in the PSUR 
Last Patient Last Visit: ongoing 
Final CSR Q4 2022 
CSR=clinical study report; PSUR= Periodic Safety Update Report; Q = quarter; 
RA=rheumatoid arthritis. 
Table 23  WA29358 (Paediatric Registry) 
Study/activity short name and title:  
Observational safety and effectiveness study of patients with polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis treated with TCZ 
Rationale and study objectives:  
Collecting long-term efficacy and safety data in pJIA treatment. The registry will address, 
but is not limited to, efficacy of 10 mg/kg for patients < 30 kg; impact of the RF status on 
efficacy of TCZ therapy; impact of TCZ therapy on the increased risk of atherosclerosis in 
RA patients, impact of TCZ therapy on growth development, influence on the occurrence 
and treatment of uveitis, and to evaluate for the risk of malignancies, serious infections, 
gastrointestinal perforation 
Study design: An international, multicenter, prospective, observational cohort study.  
Study populations: Patients with pJIA aged ≤ 17 years at the time of newly initiating 
treatment with TCZ or comparator biologic  
Milestones:  
First Patient First Visit: Q1 2009 
Annual updates will be provided in the PSUR 
Recruitment End:  June 2020 
Study Completion:  June 2025 
Final Report Submission:  January 2026 
pJIA=polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; PSUR = Periodic Safety Update Report; Q 
= quarter; RA=rheumatoid arthritis; RF = rheumatoid factor; TCZ=tocilizumab 
 
 
 
 
III.3 Summary Table of Additional Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Table 24  Planned and Ongoing Pharmacovigilance Studies    
Study 
Summary of 
Objectives 
Safety Concerns Addressed 
Milestones 
Due dates 
Category 1 - Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Category 2 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are Specific Obligations in the context of a conditional 
marketing authorization or a marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Category 3- Required additional pharmacovigilance studies conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of risk minimisation activities  
ML28664 (formerly 
tracked as 
GA28719) 
(RABBIT) registry 
study  
Ongoing 
WA29358 
(Paediatrics 
registry study) 
Ongoing 
To provide safety 
and effectiveness 
data on all licensed 
biologic drugs 
available for the 
treatment of RA 
Collecting long-
term efficacy and 
safety data for TCZ 
in the treatment of 
pJIA 
Serious infections, Complications of diverticulitis 
(including GI perforation), Neutropenia, 
Thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of 
bleeding, Hepatotoxicity, Elevated Lipid Levels 
and Potential Risk of 
Cardiovascular/Cerebrovascular Events, 
Malignancies, Demyelinating disorders 
Impact of TCZ therapy on the increased risk of 
atherosclerosis (cardiovascular events) growth 
and development, influence on the 
occurrence/treatment of uveitis and to evaluate 
the risk of malignancies, serious infections, and 
gastrointestinal perforation, and the efficacy of 
the 10 mg/kg IV Q4W regimen, and the impact of 
RF status on efficacy 
Routine updates to be provided 
in the scheduled PSURs 
Q4 2022 
Final CSR 
Routine updates to be provided 
in the scheduled PSURs 
Q1 2026 
Recruitment End:  June 2020 
Study Completion:  June 2025 
Final Report Submission:  
January 2026 
CSR=Clinical Study Report; GI = gastrointestinal; IV = intravenous; NA = not applicable; pJIA=polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; PSUR = 
Periodic Safety Update Report; Q = quarter; Q4W = once every 4 weeks; RA=rheumatoid arthritis; RF=rheumatoid factor; TCZ=tocilizumab. 
 
 
 
 
 
PART IV: PLANS FOR POST-AUTHORIZATION EFFICACY 
STUDIES 
IV.1 Planned and Ongoing Post-Authorization Imposed Efficacy Studies 
That Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization or That Are Specific 
Obligations 
There are currently no planned post-authorization efficacy studies for TCZ for IV or SC 
administration for RA, early RA, GCA, pJIA, sJIA, or COVID-19.  
PART V: RISK MINIMIZATION MEASURES (INCLUDING 
EVALUATION OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF RISK MINIMIZATION 
ACTIVITIES) 
RISK-MINIMIZATION PLAN  
V.1 Routine Risk Minimization Measures  
Table 25  Description of Routine Risk Minimization Measures by Safety 
Concern 
Safety concern 
Serious Infections * 
Routine risk minimization activities 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
IV and SC formulation: 
Section 4.3 Contraindications: 
- Active, severe infections with the exception 
of COVID-19 (see Section 4.4) 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet: 
IV and SC Formulation 
Section 2 Warnings and precautions. What 
you need to know before you are given TCZ  
Section 4 Possible serious side effects 
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a 
prescription only medicine. 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization activities 
Complications of Diverticulitis * 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet:  
Section 2 Warnings and precautions  
Section 4  Possible side effects  
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  RoActemra is a 
prescription only medicine. 
Neutropenia 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration  
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects/Laboratory 
evaluations  
Patient Information Leaflet  
Section 4 Possible Side Effects  
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
RoActemra is a prescription only medicine 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration  
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Hepatotoxicity 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization activities 
Patient Information Leaflet  
(IV/SC formulation) 
Section 2 Warning and precautions 
Section 4 Possible Side Effects 
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
In patients with RA, GCA, pJIA, sJIA, ALT, 
and AST should now be monitored every 4 to 
8 weeks for the first 6 months of treatment 
followed by every 12 weeks thereafter. 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a 
prescription only medicine 
Routine risk communication: 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration  
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects  
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a 
prescription only medicine 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet  
Section 2 Warnings and precautions 
Section 4 Possible Side Effects 
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
Thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of 
bleeding 
Elevated Lipid Levels and Potential Risk of 
Cardiovascular/Cerebrovascular Events 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Malignancies 
Demyelinating Disorders 
Immunogenicity 
Routine risk minimization activities 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  RoActemra is a 
prescription only medicine 
Routine risk communication: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet  
Section 2 Warnings and precautions 
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  RoActemra is a 
prescription only medicine 
Routine risk communication: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a 
prescription only medicine 
Routine risk communication: 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Routine risk minimization activities 
recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond 
the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimization activities 
Medicine’s legal status:  RoActemra is a 
prescription only medicine 
IV=Intravenous ; SC=Subcutaneous ; SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics. 
* The safety concerns “serious infection” and “complications of diverticulitis” are 
considered important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but are assessed as 
important potential risks for the indication of COVID-19. 
V.2. Additional Risk Minimization Measures 
Additional risk minimization measures are targeted for the indications of RA, GCA, pJIA, 
and sJIA. CRS, an acute life-threatening condition treated in the hospital setting by 
oncologists, has a different benefit-risk profile relative to previously approved indications. 
Given this therapeutic context, no additional risk minimization measure is required for 
treatment of CRS. Use of tocilizumab for CRS and its risk profile are specified in the 
SmPC. The additional risk minimization measures listed in Table 26 are not applicable 
for the COVID-19 indication. 
Table 26  Additional Risk Minimization Measures 
Safety Concern  Serious Infections * 
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measure 
Objectives 
Patient Alert Card; Patient Brochure; Healthcare Provider Brochure; 
Dosing Guide 
The objective of the measure is to ensure that patients seek 
medical attention early, and that health care providers are 
aware of the need for timely and appropriate measures to 
diagnose and treat infections 
Rationale for 
the additional 
risk 
minimization 
activity 
Patient Alert Card 
To inform both the patient and health care providers that TCZ increases 
the risk of getting infections which can become serious if not treated 
and of the need for timely and appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic 
measures in case of the early signs of infections 
Patient Brochure 
To inform the patient of the risk of serious infections and provide 
additional guidance beyond that provided in the PIL 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
To inform and provide more detailed guidance to healthcare providers 
on the risk of serious infections 
Dosing Guide 
To inform and provide more detailed dosing guidance, administration 
instructions, and risks to healthcare providers 
Patient and Healthcare providers 
Target 
audience and 
planned 
distribution 
path 
 
 
 
 
Per procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002980/201704 the 
commitment of the MAH to present evaluations of effectiveness of 
additional Risk Minimization Measure metrics is considered fulfilled as 
of PSUR 17.  
Plans for 
evaluating the 
effectiveness 
of the 
interventions 
and criteria for 
success 
Safety Concern  Complications of Diverticulitis * 
Patient Alert Card; Patient Brochure; Healthcare Provider Brochure; 
Dosing Guide 
The objective of the measure is to ensure that patients seek 
medical attention early, and that the health care providers are 
aware of the need for timely and appropriate measures to 
diagnose and treat complications of diverticulitis 
Patient Alert Card 
To inform both the patient and health care providers that patients using 
TCZ may develop complications of diverticulitis which can become 
serious if not treated and of the need for timely and appropriate 
diagnostic and therapeutic measures in case of the early signs of such 
events 
Patient Brochure 
To inform the patient of the risk of complications of diverticulitis and 
provide additional guidance beyond that provided in the PIL 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
To inform and provide more detailed guidance to healthcare providers 
on the risk of complications of diverticulitis 
Dosing Guide 
To inform and provide more detailed dosing guidance, administration 
instructions, and risks to healthcare providers 
Patient and Healthcare providers 
Per procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002980/201704, the 
commitment of the MAH to present evaluations of effectiveness of 
additional Risk Minimization Measure metrics is considered fulfilled as 
of PSUR 17.  
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measure 
Objectives 
Rationale for 
the additional 
risk 
minimization 
activity 
Target 
audience and 
planned 
distribution 
path 
Plans for 
evaluating the 
effectiveness 
of the 
interventions 
and criteria for 
success 
Safety Concern  Neutropenia 
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measure 
Objectives 
Patient Brochure; Healthcare Provider Brochure; Dosing Guide 
The objective of the measure is to ensure that patients seek 
medical attention early, and that the health care providers are 
aware of the need for timely and appropriate measures to 
 
 
diagnose and treat neutropenia 
Patient Brochure 
To inform the patient of the risk of neutropenia and provide additional 
guidance beyond that provided in the PIL 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
To inform and provide guidance to healthcare providers on the risk of 
neutropenia 
Dosing Guide 
To provide support to the healthcare provider regarding dosing and 
administration instructions and the risks.  
Patient and health care providers 
Per procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002980/201704, the 
commitment of the MAH to present evaluations of effectiveness of 
additional Risk Minimization Measure metrics is considered fulfilled as 
of PSUR 17.  
Rationale for 
the additional 
risk 
minimization 
activity 
Target 
audience and 
planned 
distribution 
path 
Plans for 
evaluating the 
effectiveness 
of the 
interventions 
and criteria for 
success 
Safety Concern  Hepatotoxicity 
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measure 
Objectives 
Rationale for 
the additional 
risk 
minimization 
activity 
Patient Brochure; Healthcare Provider Brochure; Patient Alert Card, 
Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) 
The objective of the measure is to ensure that patients seek medical 
attention early, and that health care providers are aware of the risk of 
hepatotoxicity and the need for timely and appropriate measures to 
detect hepatotoxicity  
Patient Brochure 
To inform the patient of the risk of hepatotoxicity and provide additional 
guidance beyond that provided in the PIL 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
To inform and provide guidance to healthcare providers on the risk of 
hepatotoxicity 
Patient Alert Card  
To inform both the patient and health care providers that patients using 
TCZ may develop hepatotoxicity, and on rare occasions, patients have 
experience serious life-threatening liver problems, some of which have 
required liver transplant. Patients will be monitored closely for changes 
in blood liver enzyme level. 
DHPC (one time only RMM activity)  
To inform healthcare professionals of serious DILI, including acute liver 
failure, hepatitis, and jaundice, in some cases requiring liver transplant, 
that have been observed with the administration of 
Actemra/RoActemra® (tocilizumab). The frequency of serious 
hepatotoxicity is considered rare. Healthcare professionals should 
 
 
 
Target 
audience and 
planned 
distribution 
path 
Plans for 
evaluating the 
effectiveness 
of the 
interventions 
and criteria for 
success 
follow the guidance including dose modification and tocilizumab 
discontinuation as per the approved label. 
Patient and healthcare providers 
Metrics of distribution channels of educational materials to patients and 
health care professionals. 
Comparison of exposure-adjusted reporting rates for the relevant 
events by PSUR period as proxy for comprehension/readability 
evaluation of patients and healthcare professions on the content of 
the educational materials and compliance with recommendations. 
The intervention will be assessed as effective, if no indication of 
sustained or increasing trend in exposure-adjusted response rate 
for serious hepatic events over time per PSUR interval   
Safety Concern  Thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of bleeding 
Healthcare Provider Brochure; Patient Brochure 
The objective of the measure is to ensure that patients seek 
medical attention early, and that the health care providers are 
aware of the need for timely and appropriate measures to 
diagnose and treat thrombocytopenia 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
To inform and provide guidance to healthcare providers on the risk of 
thrombocytopenia 
Patient Brochure 
To inform the patient of the risk of thrombocytopenia beyond that 
provided in the PIL   
Patient and health care providers 
Per procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002980/201704 the 
commitment of the MAH to present evaluations of effectiveness of 
additional Risk Minimization Measure metrics is considered fulfilled as 
of PSUR 17.  
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measure 
Objectives 
Rationale for 
the additional 
risk 
minimization 
activity 
Target 
audience and 
planned 
distribution 
path 
Plans for 
evaluating the 
effectiveness 
of the 
interventions 
and criteria for 
success 
Safety Concern  Elevated Lipid Levels and Potential Risk of 
Cardiovascular/Cerebrovascular Events 
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measure 
Patient Brochure; Healthcare Provider Brochure; Dosing Guide 
 
 
The objective of the measure is to ensure that patients seek 
medical attention early, and that the health care providers are 
aware of the need for timely and appropriate measures to 
detect elevated lipid levels and evaluate further. 
Patient Brochure 
To inform the patient of the risk of elevated lipid levels and provide 
additional guidance beyond that provided in the PIL 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
To inform and provide guidance to healthcare providers on the risk of 
elevated lipid levels 
Dosing Guide 
To provide support to the healthcare provider regarding dosing and 
administration instructions and the risks.  
Patient and Healthcare providers 
Per procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002980/201704 the 
commitment of the MAH to present evaluations of effectiveness of 
additional Risk Minimization Measure metrics is considered fulfilled as 
of PSUR 17.  
Objectives 
Rationale for 
the additional 
risk 
minimization 
activity 
Target 
audience and 
planned 
distribution 
path 
Plans for 
evaluating the 
effectiveness 
of the 
interventions 
and criteria for 
success 
Safety Concern  Malignancies 
Patient Brochure; Healthcare Provider Brochure; Dosing Guide 
The objective of the measure is to ensure that patients seek 
medical attention early, and that the health care providers are 
aware of the need for timely and appropriate measures to 
diagnose and treat malignancies. 
Patient Brochure 
To inform the patient of the risk of malignancies and provide additional 
guidance beyond that provided in the PIL 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
To inform and provide guidance to healthcare providers on the risk of 
malignancies 
Dosing Guide 
To provide support to the healthcare provider regarding dosing and 
administration instructions and the risks.  
Patient and Healthcare providers 
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measure 
Objectives 
Rationale for 
the additional 
risk 
minimization 
activity 
Target 
audience and 
planned 
distribution 
path 
 
 
 
Per procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002980/201704 the 
commitment of the MAH to present evaluations of effectiveness of 
additional Risk Minimization Measure metrics is considered fulfilled as 
of PSUR 17.  
Plans for 
evaluating the 
effectiveness 
of the 
interventions 
and criteria for 
success 
Safety Concern  Demyelinating Disorders 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
The objective of the measure is to ensure that the health care providers 
are aware of the need for timely and appropriate measures to diagnose 
and treat demyelinating disorders 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
To inform and provide guidance to healthcare providers on the risk of 
demyelinating disorders 
Healthcare providers 
Per procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002980/201704 the 
commitment of the MAH to present evaluations of effectiveness of 
additional Risk Minimization Measure metrics is considered fulfilled as 
of PSUR 17.  
Additional Risk 
Minimization 
Measure 
Objectives 
Rationale for 
the additional 
risk 
minimization 
activity 
Target 
audience and 
planned 
distribution 
path 
Plans for 
evaluating the 
effectiveness 
of the 
interventions 
and criteria for 
success 
PIL=Patient Information leaflet; PSUR=Periodic Safety Update Report; TCZ=tocilizumab. 
* The safety concerns “serious infection” and “complications of diverticulitis” are 
considered important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but are assessed as 
important potential risks for the indication of COVID-19. 
 
V.3 Summary of Risk Minimization Measures 
Table 27  Summary Table of Pharmacovigilance Activities and Risk 
Minimization Activities by Safety Concern  
Safety concern 
Risk 
minimization measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Serious infections *  Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
IV and SC formulation: 
Section 4.3 Contraindications Active, 
severe infections (see Section 4.4) 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet: 
IV and SC Formulation 
Section 2. What you need to know 
before you are given TCZ  
Section 4 Possible serious side 
effects: tell a doctor straightaway. 
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
None  
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the  
Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine. 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
Patient Alert Card 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Dosing Guide  
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Complications of 
Diverticulitis * 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Guided questionnaire for 
specific adverse reactions  
Collect and analyze 
information on 
hematogenous bacterial 
arthritis in the sJIA 
population < 18 years of age 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries  
(Ongoing: RABBIT, 
WA29358) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Guided questionnaire for 
specific adverse reactions  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries  
(Ongoing: RABBIT, 
WA29358) 
Safety concern 
Risk 
minimization measures 
Patient Information Leaflet:  
Section 2  
Warnings and precautions  
Section 4 Possible side effects 
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine. 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
Patient Alert Card 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Dosing Guide 
Neutropenia 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration  
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects/Laboratory evaluations  
Patient Information Leaflet  
Section 2 What you need to know 
before you used RoActemra 
Section 4 Possible Side Effects 
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
None 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Guided questionnaire for 
specific adverse reactions, 
i.e. for events of special 
interest will collect neutrophil 
data in cases of serious 
infection  
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries  
(Ongoing: RABBIT, 
WA29358) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Risk 
minimization measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Dosing Guide 
Hepatotoxicity 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration (IV formulation) 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Guided questionnaire for 
specific adverse reactions 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries  
(Ongoing: RABBIT) 
Patient Information Leaflet  
(IV/SC formulation) 
Section 2 Warning and precautions 
Section 4 Possible side effects  
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
In patients with RA, GCA, pJIA, sJIA, 
ALT and AST should now be 
monitored every 4 to 8 weeks for the 
first 6 months of treatment followed 
by every 12 weeks thereafter. 
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Patient Alert Card  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Risk 
minimization measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Thrombocytopenia 
and the potential 
risk of bleeding 
DHPC  
Routine risk communication: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects  
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration (IV formulation) 
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure  
Elevated Lipid 
Levels and 
Potential Risk of 
Cardiovascular/Cer
ebrovascular 
Events 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet  
Section 2 Warnings and precautions 
Section 4 Possible side effects 
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Guided questionnaire for 
specific adverse reactions 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries  
(Ongoing: RABBIT) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Guided questionnaire for 
specific adverse reactions  
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries  
(Ongoing: RABBIT, 
WA29358) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Risk 
minimization measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Malignancies 
Demyelinating 
Disorders 
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Dosing Guide 
Routine risk communication: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Dosing Guide 
Routine risk communication: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Guided questionnaire for 
specific adverse reactions  
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries  
(Ongoing: RABBIT, 
WA29358) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Guided questionnaire for 
specific adverse reactions 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries  
(Ongoing: RABBIT) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Risk 
minimization measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Immunogenicity 
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization 
measures: 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Routine risk minimization 
activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the 
risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures 
beyond the Product Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status:  
RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
No Additional Risk Minimization 
Measure. 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Collect and analyze anti-TCZ 
antibodies in patients who 
experience hypersensitivity 
reactions that led to study 
withdrawal in ongoing clinical 
trials and investigate the risk 
of developing anti-TCZ 
antibodies at re-
administration, when TCZ 
treatment had been 
interrupted. This is specific to 
the ongoing clinical trials and 
does not apply to 
spontaneous post-marketing 
cases 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None 
IV=intravenous; SC=subcutaneous; sJIA = systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis; 
SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics; TCZ=tocilizumab. 
* The safety concerns “serious infection” and “complications of diverticulitis” are considered 
important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but are assessed as important potential 
risks for the indication of COVID-19. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
Actemra RA MAA (EMEA). 2.6.6, Toxicology Written Summary, Section 6.0. 
Reproductive and Development toxicology. [9003] 
Abdel-Nasser AM, Rasker JJ, Valkenburg HA. Epidemiological and clinical aspects 
relating to the variability of rheumatoid arthritis. Seminars in Arthritis and 
Rheumatism 1997;27(2):123-140. [8247] 
Abroun S, Ishikawa H, Tsuyama N, Liu S, Li FJ, Otsuyama K, et al. Receptor synergy of 
interleukin-6 (IL-6) and insulin-like growth factor-I in myeloma cells that highly 
express IL-6 receptor alpha [corrected]. Blood 2004;103(6):2291-2298. [1051] 
Aggarwal, A., & Misra, R. (1994). Juvenile chronic arthritis in India: is it different from 
that seen in Western countries? Rheumatol Int., 14(2), 53-6. [10335] 
Ahmed MH. Rheumatoid arthritis induced-fatty liver theory: One reason for global 
increase in prevalence of diabetes. Medical Hypotheses 2006;66(4):862-863. 
[8240] 
Alba MA, Garcia-Martinez A, Prieto-Gonzalez S, Tavera-Bahillo I, Corbera-Bellalta M, 
Planas-Rigol E, Espigol-Frigole G, Butjosa M, Hernandez-Rodriguez J, Cid MC. 
Relapses in patients with giant cell arteritis: prevalence, characteristics, and 
associated clinical findings in a longitudinally followed cohort of 106 patients. 
Medicine 2014;93(5):194-201. DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000033. [10804] 
Almasbak H, Aarvak T, Vemuri MC. CAR T Cell Therapy: A Game Changer in Cancer 
Treatment. J Immunol Res. 2016;2016:5474602. [11288] 
Andersson R, Malmvall BE and Bengtsson BA. Long-term corticosteroid treatment in 
giant cell arteritis. Acta Med Scand. 1986;220:465-469 [10778] 
Angelo R. Martini A. Juvenile idiopathic arthritis. The Lancet 2007; Vol 369 (9563): 767-
778  
Becker C, Fantini MC, Schramm C, Lehr HA, Wirtz S, Nikolaev A, et al. TGF-beta 
suppresses tumor progression in colon cancer by inhibition of IL-6 trans-signaling. 
Immunity 2004;21:491-501. [1044] 
Becker C, Fantini MC, Wirtz S, Nikolaev A, Lehr HA, Galle PR, et al. IL-6 signaling 
promotes tumor growth in colorectal cancer. Cell Cycle 2005;4(2):217-220. [1045] 
Beigel JH, Tomashek KM, Dodd LE, et al. Remdesivir for the treatment of Covid-19 - 
Final report. N Engl J Med 2020;383:1813-26. 
Benatsky S et al. Demyelinating events in rheumatoid arthritis after drug exposures. Ann 
Rheum Obs. 2010; 69:1691-1693. [10695] 
 
 
Bernston L, Andersson Gare B, Fasth A, Herlin T, Kristinsson J, Lahdenne P, Marhaug 
G, et al. Incidence of juvenile idiopathic arthritis in the Nordic countries. A 
population based study with special reference to the validity of the ILAR and 
EULAR criteria. Journal Rheumatol 2003;30:2275-82 [10336] 
Bhayana R, Som A, Li MD, et al. Abdominal Imaging Findings in COVID-19: Preliminary 
Observations [published online ahead of print, 2020 May 11]. Radiology. 
2020;201908. 
Björnadal L, et al. Decreasing mortality in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: Results from 
a large population based cohort in Sweden, 1964-95. J Rheumatol 2002;29:906-
912. [8117] 
Bongartz T, Sutton AJ, Sweeting MJ, Buchan I, Matteson EL, Montori V. Anti-TNF 
Antibody Therapy in Rheumatoid Arthritis and the Risk of Serious Infections and 
MalignanciesSystematic Review and Meta-analysis of Rare Harmful Effects in 
Randomized Controlled Trials. JAMA. 2006;295(19):2275–2285. 
doi:10.1001/jama.295.19.2275 
Boot, R., Leussink, A. B. and Vlug, R. F. (1985). Influence of housing conditions on 
pregnancy outcome in cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). Lab. Anim., 19, 
42-47. [4141] 
Broder MS, Sarsour K, Chang E, Collinson N, Tuckwell K, Napalkov P. Corticosteroid-
related adverse events in patients with giant cell arteritis: A claims-based analysis. 
Seminars in Arthritis and Rheumatism. 2016. in press 
DOI:10.1016/j.semarthrit.2016.05.009. [11070] 
Brudno JN, Kochenderfer JN. Toxicities of chimeric antigen receptor T cells: recognition 
and management. Blood. 2016;127(26):3321-30. [11289] 
Cai Q, Huang D, Yu H, et al. COVID-19: Abnormal liver function tests [published online 
ahead of print, 2020 Apr 13]. J Hepatol. 2020;S0168-8278(20)30218-X. 
Carmona L, et al. All-cause and cause-specific mortality in rheumatoid arthritis are not 
greater than expected when treated with tumour necrosis factor antagonists. Ann 
Rheum Dis 2007;66(7):880-885. (Module 5.4 / Volume 566 / Page 2963). [8369] 
Cassidy, JT., & Petty, R. E. (2005). Chronic arthritis in childhood. In J. T. Cassidy, R. E. 
Petty, R. M. Laxer, & C. B. Lindsley, Textbook of Pediatric Rheumatology (pp. 206-
45). Philadelphia: Elsevier Saunder. [10338] 
Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Symptoms of Coronavirus [resource on the 
Internet]. 2020 [reviewed 13 May 2020; accessed 19 May 2020]. Available from: 
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/symptoms-testing/symptoms.htm CDC 
2020a 
 
Centers for Disease Prevention and Control. Provisional Death Counts for Coronavirus 
Disease (COVID-19). Available from 
https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/covid19/index.htm. Accessed on 12 May 2020. 
CDC 2020b 
Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. COVIDView. A Weekly Surveillance 
Summary of US COVID-19 Activity. Key Updates for Week 27, ending July 4, 
2020. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/covid-
data/pdf/covidview-07-10-2020.pdf. CDC 2020c 
Center for Disease Prevention and Control. Groups at Higher Risk for Severe 
Illness. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/need-extra-
precautions/groups-at-higher-risk.html. Accessed on 1 March 2021.CDC 2021a 
Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines. 
Available from: https://www.covid19treatmentguidelines.nih.gov/. Accessed on 22 
February 2021.CDC 2021b 
Chen N, Zhou M, Dong X, et al. Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases 
of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study. 
Lancet. 2020;395(10223):507‐513. 
Cheng Y, Luo R, Wang K, et al. Kidney disease is associated with in-hospital death of 
patients with COVID-19. Kidney Int. 2020;97(5):829‐838 
COVID-NET. A Weekly Summary of U.S. COVID-19 Hospitalization Data. Available 
from: https://gis.cdc.gov/grasp/COVIDNet/COVID19_5.html. Accessed on 3 July 
2021. 
Cressman DE, Greenbaum L, DeAngelis R, Cilbertom G, Furth E, Poli E, L L. Liver 
failure and defective hepatocyte regeneration in interleukin-6 deficient mice. 
Science 1996; 274:1379–1383. [8243] 
Curtis JR, Lanas A, John A, Johnson DA, Schulman KL. Factors associated with 
gastrointestinal perforation in a cohort of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis 
Care Res (Hoboken) 2012 Jun 21. doi: 10.1002/acr.21764. [Epub ahead of print]. 
[10478] 
Czaja MJ, Xu J and Alt E. Prevention of carbon tetrachloride-induced rat liver injury by 
soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor. Gastroenterology 1995;108:1849–1854. 
[8244] 
Dai M, Liu D, Liu M, et al. Patients with Cancer Appear More Vulnerable to SARS-COV-
2: A Multicenter Study during the COVID-19 Outbreak [published online ahead of 
print, 2020 Apr 28]. Cancer Discov. 2020;10.1158/2159-8290.CD-20-0422. 
Dann S, Spehlmann, ME, Hammond DC, Iimura M, Hase K, Choi, LJ, Hanson E, and 
Eckmann L. IL-6-dependent mucosal protection prevents establishment of a 
microbial niche for a-taching/effacing lesion:-forming enteric bacterial pathogens. J 
of Immunology. 2008; 180:6816-6826. [4144] 
 
Danner, S., Sordet, C., Terzic, J., Donato, L., Velten, M., Fischbach, M., & Sibilia, J. 
(2006). Epidemiology of juvenile idiopathic arthritis in Alsace, France. J 
Rheumatol, 33, 1377-1381. [10340] 
Dannecker, G. E., & Quartier, P. (2009). Juvenile idiopathic arthritis: classification, 
clinical presentation and current treatments. Horm Res., 4-12. [10339] 
Dasgupta B, Borg FA, Hassan N, Alexander L, Barraclough K, Bourke B et al. BSR and 
BHPR Guidelines for the management of giant cell arteritis. Rheumatology. 
2010;1-11. DOI:10.1093/rheumatology/keq039b. [10762] 
Davila ML, Riviere I, Wang X, et al. Efficacy and toxicity management of 19-28z CAR T 
cell therapy in B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Sci Transl Med. 
2014;6(224):224ra25. [11290] 
De Benedetti F, Rucci N, Del Fattore A, Peruzzi B, Paro R, Longo M, et al. Impaired 
skeletal development in interleukin-6 transgenic mice. A model for the impact of 
chronic inflammation on the growing skeletal system. Arthritis Rheum 
2006;54(11):3551-3563. [4038] 
De Benedetti F, Pignatti P, Vivarelli M, Meazza C, Ciliberto G, Savino R, Martini A. In 
vivo neutralization of human IL-6 (hIL-6) achieved by immunization of hIL-6-
transgenic mice with a hIL-6 receptor antagonist. J Immunol 2001; 166:4334-4340. 
[3821] 
De Benedetti, F., Brunner, H., Ruperto, N., Schneider, R., Xavier, R., Allen, R., Brown, 
D. E., Chaitow, J., Pardeo, M., Espada, G., Gerloni, V., Myones, B. L., Frane, J. 
W., Wang, J., Lipman, T. H., Bharucha, K. N., Martini, A., Lovell, D. Catch-Up 
Growth During Tocilizumab Therapy for Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis: 
Results From a Phase III Trial. Arthritis & Rheumatology, 2015; 67: 840–848. 
doi:10.1002/art.38984 
Deng Q, Hu B, Zhang Y, et al. Suspected myocardial injury in patients with COVID-19: 
Evidence from front-line clinical observation in Wuhan, China. Int J Cardiol. 
2020;311:116-121. 
Desai A, Sachdeva S, Parekh T, Desai R. COVID-19 and Cancer: Lessons from a 
Pooled Meta-Analysis. JCO Glob Oncol. 2020;6:557‐559. 
Dovi JV, He LK, DiPietro LA. Accelerated wound closure in neutrophil-depleted mice. J 
Leukocyte Biol 2003;73:448-455. [3810] 
Du RH, Liang LR, Yang CQ, et al. Predictors of mortality for patients with COVID-19 
pneumonia caused by SARS-CoV-2: a prospective cohort study. Eur Respir J. 
2020;55(5):2000524. Published 2020 May 7. 
Du Pan SM, Dehler S, Ciurea A, Ziswiler HR, Gabay C, Finckh A, et al. Comparison of 
drug retention rates and causes of drug discontinuation between anti-tumor 
necrosis factor agents in rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis Rheum. 2009;61:560–568 
[10188] 
 
EMA Webpage 2020. Avaiable from: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/ema-
endorses-use-dexamethasone-covid-19-patients-oxygen-mechanical-ventilation. 
Emami A, Javanmardi F, Pirbonyeh N, Akbari A. Prevalence of Underlying Diseases in 
Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. 
Arch Acad Emerg Med. 2020;8(1):e35. Published 2020 Mar 24. 
Erdal GS, Polat O, Erdem GU, Korkusuz R, Hindilerden F, Yilmaz M, Yasar KK, 
Isiksacan N, Tural D. The mortality rate of COVID-19 was high in cancer patients: 
a retrospective single-center study. Int J Clin Oncol. 2021 May;26(5):826-834. 
European Centre of Disease Prevention and Control. Coronavirus disease 2019 
(COVID-19) in the EU/EEA and the UK – Eighth update. Available from: 
https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/documents/covid-19-rapid-risk-
assessment-coronavirus-disease-2019-eighth-update-8-april-2020.pdf. Accessed 
on 28 May 2020. ECDC 2020a 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Coronavirus disease 
2019 (COVID-19) in the EU/EEA and the UK– ninth update. Stockholm. Available 
from: https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/publications-data/rapid-risk-assessment-
coronavirus-disease-2019-covid-19-pandemic-ninth-update. Accessed on 8 May 
2020. ECDC 2020b 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Vaccines and treatment of 
COVID-19. Available from: https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/covid-19/latest-
evidence/vaccines-and-treatment. Updated on 30 June 2020. Accessed on 14 July 
2020. ECDC 2020c 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Coronavirus disease 
2019 (COVID-19) in the EU/EEA and the UK – tenth update. Available from: 
https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/publications-data/rapid-risk-assessment-
coronavirus-disease-2019-covid-19-pandemic-tenth-update. Accessed on 15 July 
2020. ECDC 2020d 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). COVID-19 surveillance 
report. Week 27, 2020. Produced on 10 July 2020. Available from: https://covid19-
surveillance-report.ecdc.europa.eu/. Accessed on 14 July 2020. ECDC 2020e 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Epidemiology of COVID-
19. Available from: https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/covid-19/latest-
evidence/epidemiology. Accessed on 13 July 2020. ECDC 2020f 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Epidemiology of COVID-
19 [resource on the Internet] 2020 [updated 22 July 2020, accessed 22 July 2020]. 
Available from: https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/geographical-distribution-2019-
ncov-cases. ECDC 2020g 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). COVID-19 Surveillance 
Report. Available from: https://covid19-surveillance-report.ecdc.europa.eu/. 
Accessed on 27 June 2021. ECDC 2021 
 
Foroozan R, Deramo VA, Buono LM, Jayamanne DGR, Sergott RC, Danesh-Meyer H, 
Savino PJ. Recovery of visual function in patients with biopsy-proven giant cell 
arteritis. Ophthalmology. 2003;110(3):539-542. 
DOI:10.1016/S0161-6420(02)01775-X. [11073] 
Fragiel M, Miró Ò, Llorens P, Jiménez S, Piñera P, Burillo G, et al., SIESTA (Spanish 
Investigators in Emergency Situations Team) network. Incidence, clinical, risk 
factors and outcomes of Guillain-Barré in Covid-19. Ann Neurol. 2021 
Mar;89(3):598-603.  
Fraissé M, Logre E, Pajot O, Mentec H, Plantefève G, Contou D. Thrombotic and 
hemorrhagic events in critically ill COVID-19 patients: a French monocenter 
retrospective study. Crit Care. 2020;24(1):275. Published 2020 Jun 2 
Fu Y, Yang Q, Xu M, et al. Secondary Bacterial Infections in Critical Ill Patients With 
Coronavirus Disease 2019. Open Forum Infect Dis. 2020;7(6):ofaa220. Published 
2020 Jun 5. 
Gabriel SE et al. Survival in rheumatoid arthritis. A population-based analysis of trends 
over 40 years. Arthritis Rheum 2003;48(1):54- 58. [8105] 
Gabriel SE et al. The epidemiology of rheumatoid arthritis in Rochester, Minnesota 
1955-1985. Arthritis Rheum 1999;42(3):415-420. [8106] 
Gare BA, Fasth A. Epidemiology of juvenile chronic arthritis in southwestern Sweden: A 
5-year prospective population study. Pediatrics 1992;90:950-958 [8334] 
Garg S, Kim L, Whitaker M, et al. Hospitalization Rates and Characteristics of Patients 
Hospitalized with Laboratory-Confirmed Coronavirus Disease 2019 - COVID-NET, 
14 States, March 1-30, 2020. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2020; 69(15):458‐
464. Published 2020 Apr 17. 
Gomez CR, Goral J, Ramirez L, Kopf M, Kovacs EJ. Aberrant acute-phase response in 
aged interleukin-6 knockout mice. Shock 2006;25(6):581-585. [3800] 
González-Gay MA, Garcia-Porrua C, Llorca J, Hajeer AH, Branas F, Dabaneh A. Visual 
manifestations of giant cell arteritis. Trends and clinical spectrum in 161 patients. 
Medicine 2000;79(5):283-292. [11074] 
González-Gay MA, Vazquez-Rodriguez TR, Lopez-Diaz MJ, Miranda-Filloy JA, 
Gonzalez-Juanatey C, Martin J, Llorca J. Epidemiology of giant cell arteritis and 
Polymyalgia Rheumatica. Arthritis & Rheumatism. 2009;61(10):1454-1461. DOI: 
10.1002/art.24459. [10933] 
Goyal P, Choi JJ, Pinheiro LC, et al. Clinical Characteristics of Covid-19 in New York 
City. N Engl J Med. 2020 Jun 11;382(24):2372-74. 
Grasselli G, Zangrillo A, Zanella A, et al. Baseline Characteristics and Outcomes of 1591 
Patients Infected With SARS-CoV-2 Admitted to ICUs of the Lombardy Region, 
Italy [published online ahead of print, 2020 Apr 6]. JAMA. 2020;323(16):1574‐
1581. 
 
Griffith JW, Sokol CL, Luster AD. Chemokines and chemokine receptors: positioning 
cells for host defense and immunity. Annu Rev Immunol. 2014;32:659-702. 
[11291] 
Grupp SA, Kalos M, Barrett D, et al. Chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells for acute 
lymphoid leukemia [Author Manuscript]. N Engl J Med. 2013;368(16):1509-18. 
[11292] 
Guan WJ, Ni ZY, Hu Y, et al. Clinical Characteristics of Coronavirus Disease 2019 in 
China. N Engl J Med. 2020; 382(18):1708‐1720. 
Guillaume, S., Prieur, A. M., Coste, J., & Job-Deslandre, C. (2000). Long-term outcome 
and prognosis in oligoarticular-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Arthritis Rheum, 
43(8), 1858-65. [10348] 
Guo T, Fan Y, Chen M, et al. Cardiovascular Implications of Fatal Outcomes of Patients 
With Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) [published online ahead of print, 2020 
Mar 27]. JAMA Cardiol. 2020;e201017. 
Gupta S, Wang W, Hayek SS, et al. Association Between Early Treatment With 
Tocilizumab and Mortality Among Critically Ill Patients With COVID-19. JAMA 
Intern Med. 2021 Jan 1;181(1):41-51. 
Haffejee, I. E., Raga, J., & Coovadia, H. M. (1984). Juvenile chronic arthritis in black and 
Indian South African children. S Afr Med J., 65(13), 510-4. [10350] 
Hazes JM, Luime JJ. The epidemiology of early inflammatory arthritis. Nature Reviews 
Rheumatology. 2011;7:381-390. [10653]. 
Hefler LA, Grimm C, Ackermann S, Malur S, Radjabi-Rahat AR, Leodolter S, et al. An 
interleukin-6 gene promoter polymorphism influences the biological phenotype of 
ovarian cancer. Cancer Res 2003;63:3066-3068. [1041] 
Hendrie, T. A, et. Al. (1996). Frequency of prenatal loss in a macaque breeding colony. 
Am. J. Primatol., 40, 41-53. [8513] 
Henry BM, Lippi G, Plebani M. Laboratory abnormalities in children with novel 
coronavirus disease 2019 [published online ahead of print, 2020 Mar 16]. Clin 
Chem Lab Med. 2020;/j/cclm.ahead-of-print/cclm-2020-0272/cclm-2020-0272.xml. 
Hepatotoxicty and Tocilizumab, Drug Safety Report No. 1084454, 2019  
Hilbert DM, Kopf M, Mock BA, Kohler G, Rudikoff S. Interleukin 6 is essential for in vivo 
development of B lineage neoplasms. J Exp Med 1995;182:243-248. [1042] 
Hill DB, Marsano L, Cohen D, Allen J, Shedlofsky S and McClain C. Increased plasma 
interleukin-6 concentrations in alcoholic hepatitis. J Lab Clin Med 1992;119:547–
552. [8242] 
Horby P, Lim WS, Emberson JR, et al. Dexamethasone in hospitalized patients with 
Covid-19. N Engl J Med 2021; 384:693-704. 
 
Horneff G, De Bock F, Foeldvari I, et al. Safety and efficacy of combination of etanercept 
and methotrexate compared to treatment with etanercept only in patients with 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA): preliminary data from the German JIA Registry. 
Ann Rheum Dis 2009;68(4):519-25. [10023] 
Horvat N, Pinto PVA, Araujo-Filho JAB, Santos JMMM, Dias AB, Miranda JA, de Oliveira 
CV, Barbosa CS, Morais TC, N Assuncao-Jr A, Nomura CH, Viana PCC. 
Abdominal gastrointestinal imaging findings on computed tomography in patients 
with COVID-19 and correlation with clinical outcomes. Eur J Radiol Open. 
2021;8:100326. 
Hu X, Hu C, Yang Y, Chen J, Zhong P, Wen Y, Chen X. Clinical characteristics and risk 
factors for severity of COVID-19 outside Wuhan: a double-center retrospective 
cohort study of 213 cases in Hunan, China. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2020 Jan-
Dec;14:1753466620963035. 
Huang C, Wang Y, Li X, et al. Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel 
coronavirus in Wuhan, China [published correction appears in Lancet. 2020 Jan 
30;:]. Lancet. 2020;395(10223):497‐506. 
Huemer C, Huemer M, Dorner T, Falger J, Schacherl H, Bernecker M, et al. Incidence of 
pediatric rheumatic diseases in a regional population in Austria. J Rheumatol. 
2001 Sep;28(9):2116-9. [11215] 
Ishiguro et al. Novel mouse model of colitis characterized by hapten-protein 
visualization. BioTechniques 49:641-648 (September 2010) doi 
10.2144/000113496. [10533] 
Ji D, Qin E, Xu J, et al. Non-alcoholic fatty liver diseases in patients with COVID-19: A 
retrospective study [published online ahead of print, 2020 Apr 8]. J Hepatol. 
2020;S0168-8278(20)30206-3. 
Jin S, Jin Y, Xu B, Hong J, Yang X. Prevalence and Impact of Coagulation Dysfunction 
in COVID-19 in China: A Meta-Analysis. Thromb Haemost. 2020 
Nov;120(11):1524-1535. 
Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center. Mortality Analyses. Available from 
https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/data/mortality. Accessed on 12 May 2020 
Johnston S, Turpcu A, Shi N, Moawad D, Alexander K. Incidence and hazard of 
infections in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with subsequent-line biologic 
disease modifying antirheumatic drugs after switching from first-line anti-tumor 
necrosis factor agents. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2011;20:S71. [10212] 
Kaipianinen Seppanen O and Savolainen A. Changes in the incidence of juvenile 
rheumatoid arthritis in Finland. Rheumatology 2001;40:928-932. [10024] 
Kalos M, Levine BL, Porter DL, et al. T cells with chimeric antigen receptors have potent 
antitumor effects and can establish memory in patients with advanced leukemia. 
Sci Transl Med. 2011;3(95):95ra73. [11293] 
 
Katsume A, Saito H, Yamada Y, Yorozu K, Ueda O, Akamatsu K, et al. Anti-interleukin 6 
(IL-6) receptor antibody suppresses Castleman’s disease like symptoms emerged 
in IL-6 transgenic mice. Cytokine 2002;20(6):304-311. [1053] 
Kim D, Quinn J, Pinsky B, Shah NH, Brown I. Rates of Co-infection Between SARS-
CoV-2 and Other Respiratory Pathogens [published online ahead of print, 2020 
Apr 15]. JAMA. 2020;323(20):2085‐2086. 
Kochenderfer JN, Dudley ME, Feldman SA, et al. B-cell depletion and remissions of 
malignancy along with cytokine-associated toxicity in a clinical trial of anti-CD19 
chimeric-antigen-receptor-transduced T cells. Blood. 2012;119(12):2709-20. 
[11294] 
Landi S, Moreno V, Gioia-Patricola L, Guino E, Navarro M, de Oca J, et al. Association 
of common polymorphisms in inflammatory genes interleukin (IL)6, IL8, tumor 
necrosis factor alpha, NFKB1, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor 
gamma with colorectal cancer. Cancer Res 2003;63:3560-3566. [1046] 
Laxer RM, Schneider R. Systemic-onset juvenile chronic arthritis. Section 5.6.2 in Oxford 
Textbook of Rheumatology second edition published 1998 by Oxford University 
Press Inc, New York. [8643] 
Li K, Wu J, Wu F, et al. The Clinical and Chest CT Features Associated with Severe and 
Critical COVID-19 Pneumonia. Invest Radiol. 2020; 55(6):327‐331. 
Li J, Huang DQ, Zou B, Yang H, Hui WZ, Rui F, Yee NTS, Liu C, Nerurkar SN, Kai JCY, 
Teng MLP, Li X, Zeng H, Borghi JA, Henry L, Cheung R, Nguyen MH. Epidemiology 
of COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical characteristics, risk 
factors, and outcomes. J Med Virol. 2021 Mar;93(3):1449-1458. 
Lilly and Incyte Press Release 2021. Available from: https://investor.lilly.com/news-
releases/news-release-details/lilly-and-incyte-announce-results-phase-3-cov-
barrier-study. 
Lin D, Liu L, Zhang M, et al. Co-infections of SARS-CoV-2 with multiple common 
respiratory pathogens in infected patients. Sci China Life Sci. 2020;63(4):606‐
609 (Lin 2020a) 
Lin L, Jiang X, Zhang Z, et al. Gastrointestinal symptoms of 95 cases with SARS-CoV-2 
infection. Gut. 2020;69(6):997‐1001 (Lin 2020b) 
Lippi G, Plebani M, Henry BM. Thrombocytopenia is associated with severe coronavirus 
disease 2019 (COVID-19) infections: A meta-analysis. Clin Chim Acta. 
2020;506:145-148. 
Liu H, Wang LL, Zhao SJ, Kwak-Kim J, Mor G, Liao AH. Why are pregnant women 
susceptible to COVID-19? An immunological viewpoint. J Reprod Immunol. 
2020;139:103122. 
Liu W, Zhang Q, Chen J, et al. Detection of Covid-19 in Children in Early January 2020 
in Wuhan, China. N Engl J Med. 2020; 382(14):1370‐1371. 
 
Llitjos JF, Bredin S, Lascarrou JB, Soumagne T, Cojocaru M, Leclerc M, Lepetit A, 
Gouhier A, Charpentier J, Piton G, Faron M, Stoclin A, Pène F. Increased 
susceptibility to intensive care unit-acquired pneumonia in severe COVID-19 
patients: a multicentre retrospective cohort study. Ann Intensive Care. 2021 Jan 
29;11(1):20. 
Lodigiani C, Iapichino G, Carenzo L, et al. Venous and arterial thromboembolic 
complications in COVID-19 patients admitted to an academic hospital in Milan, 
Italy [published online ahead of print, 2020 Apr 23]. Thromb Res. 2020;191:9‐14. 
Lunt M, Watson KD, Dixon WG; British Society for Rheumatology Biologics Register 
Control Centre Consortium, Symmons DP, Hyrich KL; British Society for 
Rheumatology Biologics Register. No evidence of association between anti-tumor 
necrosis factor treatment and mortality in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: results 
from the British Society for Rheumatology Biologics Register. Arthritis Rheum. 
2010;62:3145-3153. [10480] 
Macaubas, C., Nguyen , K., Milojevic, D., Park, J. L., & Mellins, E. D. (2009). 
Oligoarticular and polyarticular JIA: epidemiology and pathogenesis. Nat Rev 
Rheumatol., 5(11), 616-26. [10355] 
Manners, P. J., & Bower, C. (2002). Worldwide prevalence of juvenile arthritis why does 
it vary so much? J Rheumatol., 29(7), 1520-30. [8335] 
Martinez-Lado L, Calvino-Diaz C, Pineiro A, Dierssen T, Vazquez-Rodriguez TR, 
Miranda-Filloy JA, Lopez-Diaz MJ, Balnco R, Llorca J, Gonzalez-Gay MA. 
Relapses and Recurrences in Giant Cell Arteritis. Medicine 2011;90:186-193. 
DOI:10.1097/MD.0b013e31821c4fad. [10170] 
Matteson EL, Buttgereit F, Dejaco C, and Dasgupta B. Glucocorticoids for Management 
of Polymyalgia Rheumatica and Giant Cell Arteritis. Rheum Dis Clin N Am. 
2016;(42):75–90. [11094] 
Maude SL, Frey N, Shaw PA, et al. Chimeric antigen receptor T cells for sustained 
remissions in leukemia. N Engl J Med. 2014;371(16):1507-17. [11295] 
Mazlumzadeh M, Hunder GG, Easley KA, Calamia KT, Matteson EL, Griffing WL, 
Younge BR, Weyand CM, Goronzy JJ. Treatment of Giant Cell Arteritis Using 
Induction Therapy With High-Dose Glucocorticoids. Arthritis & Rheumatism. 
2006;54(10):3310-3318. DOI:10.1002/art.22163. [11079] 
Mellemkjaer L et al. Rheumatoid arthritis and cancer risk. Eur J Cancer 1996; 32A 
(10) :1753-1757. [8141] 
Mendizabal M, Piñero F, Ridruejo E, Anders M, Silveyra MD, Torre A, et al. Prospective 
Latin American cohort evaluating outcomes of patients with COVID-19 and 
abnormal liver tests on admission. Ann Hepatol. 2021 Mar-Apr;21:100298. 
Methotrexate = Rheumatrex US package insert. [3925] 
 
Modesto C, Antón J, Rodriguez B, Bou R, Arnal C, Ros J, et al. Incidence and 
prevalence of juvenile idiopathic arthritis in Catalonia (Spain). Scand J Rheumatol. 
2010 Nov;39(6):472-9.[11213] 
Moe N, Rygg M. Epidemiology of juvenile chronic arthritis in northern Norway: a ten-year 
retrospective study [Abstract]. Clin Exp Rheumatol 1998;16(1):99-101 [10027] 
Mpofu S, Mpofu CMA, Hutchinson D, et al. Steroids, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs, and sigmoid diverticular abscess perforation in rheumatic conditions. Ann 
Rheum Dis 2004;63:588-590. [8167] 
Mukhtyar C, Guillevin L, Cid MC, Dasgupta B, De Groot K, Gross W, Hauser T, Hellmich 
B, Jayne D, Kallenberg CGM, Merkel PA, Raspe H, Salvarani C, Scott DGI, 
Stegeman C, Watts R, Westman K, Witter J, Yazici H, Luqmani R. EULAR 
recommendations for the management of large vessel vasculitis. Annals of the 
Rheumatic Diseases. 2009;68:318-323. DOI:10.1136/ard.2008.088351.[10158] 
Mullen CA, Coale MM, Levy AT, Stetler-Stevenson WG, Liotta LA, Brandt S, Blaese RM. 
Fibrosarcoma cells transduced with the IL-6 gene exhibit reduced tumorigenicity, 
increased immunogenicity, and decreased metastatic potential. Cancer Res 
1992;52:6020-6024. [1049] 
Munhoz RP, Pedroso JL, Nascimento FA, et al. Neurological complications in patients 
with SARS-CoV-2 infection: a systematic review. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 
2020;78(5):290-300. 
Murray-Thomas and Cowie. Epidemiology and clinical aspects of congestive heart 
failure. JRAAS 2003;4:131–6. [10445] 
Myllykangas-Luosujärvi R, et al. Shortening of life span and causes of excess mortality 
in a population-based series of subjects with rheumatoid arthritis. Clin Exp 
Rheumatol 1995;13:149-153. [8276] 
Nicola et al. The Risk of Congestive Heart Failure in Rheumatoid Arthritis. Arthritis 
Rheum Vol. 52, No. 2, 2005, pp 412–420. [10446] 
NIH Press Release 2021. Available from: https://www.nih.gov/news-events/news-
releases/nih-closes-enrollment-trial-comparing-covid-19-treatment-regimens. 
Nguyen-Khoa B, Goehring E, Alexander K, Dong W, Napalkov P, Jones JK. Serious 
infections in rheumatoid arthritis patients switching anti-tumor necrosis factor 
drugs. [abstract]. Arthritis Rheum. 2010;62 Suppl 10:698 doi: 10.1002/art.28466. 
[10475] 
Nordal , E., Zak, M., Aalto, K., Berntson, L., Fasth , A., Herlin, Rygg, M. (2011). Ongoing 
disease activity and changing categories in a long-term nordic cohort study of 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Arthritis Rheum, 63(9), 2809-18. [10360] 
Ofori-Asenso Richard, Ogundipe Oyepeju, Adom Agyeman Akosua, Chin Ken Lee, 
Mazidi Mohsen, Ademi Zanfina, De Bruin Marie Louise, Liew Danny (2020) Cancer 
is associated with severe disease in COVID-19 patients: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Ecancer. 2020; 14:1047. 
 
Oualha M, Bendavid M, Berteloot L, et al. Severe and fatal forms of COVID-19 in 
children. Arch Pediatr 2020;27(5):235−8. 
Ozen, S., Karaaslan, Y., Ozdemir, O., Saatci , U., Bakkaloglu , A., Koroglu, E., & 
Tezcan, S. (1998). Prevalence of juvenile chronic arthritis and familial 
Mediterranean fever in Turkey: a field study. J Rheumatol, 25(12), 2445-9 [10361] 
Palaiodimos L, Kokkinidis DG, Li W, et al. Severe obesity, increasing age and male sex 
are independently associated with worse in-hospital outcomes, and higher in-
hospital mortality, in a cohort of patients with COVID-19 in the Bronx, New York 
[published online 
Park SJ, Nakagawa T, Kitamura H, Atsumi T, Kamon H, Sawa S, et al. IL-6 regulates in 
vivo dendritic cell differentiation through STAT3 activation. J Immunol 2004; 
173:3844–3854. [1048] 
Pei G, Zhang Z, Peng J, et al. Renal Involvement and Early Prognosis in Patients with 
COVID-19 Pneumonia. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2020;31(6):1157‐1165 
Petri H, Nevitt A, Sarsour K, Napalkov P, and Collinson N. Incidence of Giant Cell 
Arteritis and Characteristics of Patients: Data-Driven Analysis of Comorbidities. 
Arthritis Care and Research. 2015;67(3):390-395. DOI:10.1002/acr.22429. [11081] 
Petrilli CM, Jones SA, Yang J, et al. Factors associated with hospital admission and 
critical illness among 5279 people with coronavirus disease 2019 in New York City: 
prospective cohort study. BMJ. 2020;369:m1966. Published 2020 May 22. 
Prieur AM, Le Gall E, Karman F, Edan C, Lasserre O, Goujard J. Epidemiologic survey 
of juvenile chronic arthritis in France. Comparison of data obtained from two 
different regions. Clin Exp Rheumatol 1987;5(3):217-23. [10029] 
Prince FH, Twilt M, ten Cate R, et al. Long-term follow-up on effectiveness and safety of 
etanercept in juvenile idiopathic arthritis: the Dutch national register. Ann Rheum 
Dis 2009;68(5):635-41 [10030] 
Prior P. Cancer and rheumatoid arthritis: Epidemiologic considerations. Am J Med 
1985;78:15-21. [8144] 
Proven A, Gabriel SE, Orces C, O’Fallon WM, Hunder GG. Glucocorticoid Therapy in 
Giant Cell Arteritis: Duration and Adverse Outcomes. Arthritis Care and Research. 
2003;49(5):703-708. DOI:10.1002/act.11388. [10157] 
Pruunsild, C., Uibo, K., Liivamägi, H., Tarraste, S., Talvik, T., & Pelkonen , P. Incidence 
of juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children in Estonia: a prospective population-based 
study. Scand J Rheumatol, 2007: 36(1), 7-13. [10365] 
Ravelli, A., & Martini, A. Juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Lancet, 2007; 767-78. [8385] 
Ravelli A, Grom AA, Behrens EM, et al. Macrophage activation syndrome as part of 
systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis: diagnosis, genetics, pathophysiology and 
treatment. Genes Immun. 2012;13(4):289-98. [11296] 
 
REMAP-CAP Investigators, Gordon AC, Mouncey PR, et al. Interleukin-6 Receptor 
Antagonists in Critically Ill Patients with Covid-19. N Engl J Med. 2021 Feb 25. 
DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2100433. 
Report 1003492 – RO4877533 (MR16-1):  A Study for Effects of MR16-1 on Pre- and 
Post-natal Development, Including Maternal Function, by Intravenous 
Administration in Mice (Study No. SBL036-064), Chugai 2009. [3720] 
Report 1033493 – RO4877533 (MR16-1): A Study for Effects of MR16-1 on Fertility and 
Early Embryonic Development to Implantation by Intravenous Administration in 
Male Mice (Study No. SBL036-065), Chugai 2009. [3721] 
Report 1033494 – RO4877533 (MR16-1): A Study for Effects of MR16-1 on Fertility and 
Early Embryonic Development to Implantation by Intravenous Administration in 
Female Mice (Study No. SBL036-066), Chugai 2009. [3722] 
Report 1029892 – Combined Fertility and Pre-natal/Post-Natal Reproduction Toxicity 
Study in B6.129S2-IL6tm1Kopf/J and C57 Mice, including behavioral/functional 
evaluations. (CRL PS No. MVQ00020. Ro No 3037R08. 2009. [3723] 
Report 1003—RO4877533 (MR16-1):  Milk Excretion Study of MR16-1 in Mice (SNBL 
PBC Study No. PBC036-073. Chugai No. ADM09-0034). 2009. [3726] 
Report 1093548: Addendum Clinical Study Report for Study WA25204 (ENTRACTE); 
March 2019 
Richardson S, Hirsch JS, Narasimhan M, et al. Presenting Characteristics, 
Comorbidities, and Outcomes Among 5700 Patients Hospitalized With COVID-19 in 
the New York City Area [published online ahead of print, 2020 Apr 22]. JAMA. 
2020;e206775. 
Rosenthal N, Cao Z, Gundrum J, et al. Risk Factors Associated With In-Hospital 
Mortality in a US National Sample of Patients With COVID-19. JAMA Netw Open. 
2020 Dec 1;3(12):e2029058. 
Russell JP, Engiles JB, Rothstein JL. Proinflammatory mediators and genetic 
background in oncogene mediated tumor progression. J Immunol 2004;172:4059-
4067. [1309] 
Salazar-Onfray F, Lopez MN, Mendoza-Naranjo A. Paradoxical effects of cytokines in 
tumor immune surveillance and tumor immune escape. Cytokine Growth F R 
2007;18:171-182. [1052] 
Scott DL. Early rheumatoid arthritis. British Medical Bulletin. 2007;81-82(1):97-114 
[10675]. 
Setoguchi S, Solomon DH, Weinblatt ME, Katz JN, Avorn J, Glynn RJ, et al. Tumor 
necrosis factor alpha antagonist use and cancer in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis. Arthritis Rheum. 2006;54:2757-2764. [10227] 
 
Shi S, Qin M, Shen B, et al. Association of Cardiac Injury With Mortality in Hospitalized 
Patients With COVID-19 in Wuhan, China [published online ahead of print, 2020 
Mar 25]. JAMA Cardiol. 2020;e200950. 
Siegall CB, FitzGerald DJ, Pastan I. Cytotoxicity of IL6-PE40 and derivatives on tumor 
cells expressing a range of interleukin 6 receptor levels. J Biol Chem 
1990;265(27):16318-16323. [1043] 
Solau-Gervais, E., Robin, C., Gambert, C., Troller, S., Danner, S., Gombert, B, Hankard, 
R. (2010). Prevalence and distribution of juvenile idiopathic arthritis in a region of 
Western France. Joint Bone Spine, 77(1), 47-9. [10376] 
Solomon DH, et al. Patterns of cardiovascular risk in rheumatoid arthritis. Ann Rheum 
Dis 2006;65:1608-1612. [8125] 
Solomon DH, Mercer E, Kavanaugh A. Observational studies on the risk of cancer 
associated with tumor necrosis factor inhibitors in rheumatoid arthritis: a review of 
their methodologies and results. Arthritis Rheum. 2012;64:21–32. [10484] 
Sprague AH, Khalil RA. Inflammatory cytokines in vascular dysfunction and vascular 
disease. Biochem Pharmacol. 2009;78(6):539-52. [11297] 
Study PHM02-0148. Inhibitory activity of MRA on IL-6 and soluble IL-6 receptor complex 
signaling. Chugai. 2002. [1006] 
Study PHM02-0249 (JITSU97-0249). Growth inhibition of MRA on myeloma cell lines in 
vitro. Chugai. 1997. [1015] 
Study PHM04-0089 (J97-0262). In vivo anti-tumor activity of MRA in SCID mouse 
xenograft model with KPMM2 cells implanted in bone marrow and its effects on 
tumor cell growth in bone marrow. Chugai. 2001. [1016] 
Study TOX02-0161 (J96-0587). Single dose intravenous toxicity study of MRA in 
cynomolgus monkeys. Chugai. 1996. [3000] 
Study TOX02-0167 (J97-0143). One-month repeated dose intravenous toxicity study of 
MRA in cynomolgus monkeys. Chugai. 1997. [3106] 
Study TOX02-0169 (J99-0451). Six-month repeated dose intravenous toxicity study of 
MRA in cynomolgus monkeys. Chugai. 1999. [3107] 
Study TOX00-0032. Intravenous/perivenous local tolerance study of MRA injection for 
LP-II in rabbits. Chugai. 2000. [3600] 
Study TOX03-0104 (J99-0205). Local tolerance study involving intravenous 
administration of 100 mg MRA injection in rabbits. Chugai. 1999. [3601] 
Study TOX03-0105 (J97-0464). Local tolerance study involving intramuscular 
administration of 100 mg MRA injection in rabbits. Chugai. 1997. [3602] 
 
Study TOX03-0106 (J99-0206). Local tolerance study involving subcutaneous 
administration of 100 mg MRA injection around the vein in rabbits. Chugai. 1999. 
[3603] 
Study 1015671. No. RO4877533 (Tocilizumab): Local tolerance test in the rabbit. (Study 
No. 8009P04) 2004. [3604] 
Study TOX00-0012 (J99-0385). A study for effects of MRA administered intravenously 
on embryo-fetal development in cynomolgus monkeys by intravenous 
administration (SBL-54-12). Chugai. 2001. [3300] 
Study TOX02-0127 (J97-0017). Effects of MRA on respiratory and cardiovascular 
systems and gastrointestinal motility in anesthetized cynomolgus monkeys. 
Chugai. 1996. [3707] 
Study TOX02-0158 (J99-0722). Effects of MRA on electrocardiogram in anesthetized 
cynomolgus monkeys. Chugai. 1999. [3708] 
Study TOX02-0172 (JITSU97-0035). Reverse mutation study of MRA in bacteria. 
Chugai. 1996. [3709] 
Study TOX02-0171 (JITSU97-0086). Chromosomal aberration assay of MRA in human 
peripheral blood lymphocytes. Chugai. 1997. [3710] 
Suissa S, Bernatsky S, and Hudson, M. Anti-rheumatic drug use and the risk of acute 
myocardial infarction. Arthritis and Rheumatism. 2006:55(4):531-536. [8370] 
Sun WH, Kreisle RA, Phillips AW, Ershler WB. In vivo and in vitro characteristics of 
interleukin 6-transfected B16 melanoma cells. Cancer Res 1992;52:5412-5415. 
[1050] 
Svantesson H, Akesson A, Eberhardt K, Elborgh R. Prognosis in juvenile rheumatoid 
arthritis with systemic onset. A follow-up study. Scand J Rheumatol 
1983;12(2):139-44. [10037] 
Symmons DP, Jones M, Osborne J, Sills J, Southwood TR, Woo P. Pediatric 
rheumatology in the United Kingdom: data from the British Pediatric Rheumatology 
Group National Diagnostic Register. The Journal of rheumatology 
1996;23(11):1975-80. [10038] 
Tang N, Li D, Wang X, Sun Z. Abnormal coagulation parameters are associated with 
poor prognosis in patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia. J Thromb Haemost. 
2020;18(4):844-847. Tang et al. 2020a 
Tang N, Bai H, Chen X, Gong J, Li D, Sun Z. Anticoagulant treatment is associated with 
decreased mortality in severe coronavirus disease 2019 patients with 
coagulopathy. J Thromb Haemost. 2020;18(5):1094-1099. Tang et al. 2020b 
Taub R. Hepatoprotection via the IL-6/Stat3 pathway. J Clin Invest 2003 ;112 :978-980. 
[1097] 
 
Thyagarajan V, Norman H, Alexander KA, Napalkov P, Enger C. Risk of mortality, fatal 
infection, and fatal malignancy related to use of anti-tumor necrosis factor-α 
biologics by rheumatoid arthritis patients. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2012. [Epub 
ahead of print]. [10477] 
Venkatesan P. The changing demographics of COVID-19. Lancet Respir Med. 2020 
Dec;8(12):e95. 
Vogel, F. and Bee, W. (1999). Reproduction toxicology in primates: An overview of 
methods and techniques. In: Reproduction in Nonhuman Primates, Weinhauer, G. 
and Korte, R. (Eds.). pp. 95-110. Waxmann, Munster and New York. [4142] 
Wallace CA, Levinson JE. Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis: outcome and treatment for the 
1990s. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 1991;17(4): 891-905. [10055] 
Wang D, Yin Y, Hu C, Liu X, Zhang X, Zhou S, et al. Clinical course and outcome of 107 
patients infected with the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, discharged from two 
hospitals in Wuhan, China. Crit Care. 2020 Apr 30;24(1):188.  
Watson DJ, et al. All-cause mortality and vascular events among patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, or no arthritis in the UK General Practice 
Research Database. J Rheumatol 2003;30:1196-1202. [8124] 
Watts R and Scott D. Epidemiology of vasculitis. Oxford Textbook of Vasculitis. Ed: Ball, 
Fessler, Bridges. Chapter 2. 2014. Available upon request. [11123] 
Woo P, Southwood TR, Prieur A-M, et al. Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Crossover 
Trial of Low-Dose Oral Methotrexate In Children With Extended Oligoarticular or 
Systemic Arthritis. Arthritis Rheum 2000; 43(8):1849-57. [8404] 
Woo P. Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis: diagnosis, management, and outcome. Nat 
Clin Pract Rheumatol 2006;2(1):28-34. [10041] 
Woolf AD. Burden of major musculoskeletal conditions. B World Health Organ 
2003;81(9):646-656. [8111] 
WHO Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dashboard | WHO Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dashboard 
With Vaccination Data Available from: https://covid19.who.int/. Accessed on 19 
May 2021. WHO 2020a. 
World Health Organization. Report of the WHO-China Joint Mission on Coronavirus 
Disease 2019 (COVID-19). Available from: https://www.who.int/docs/default-
source/coronaviruse/who-china-joint-mission-on-covid-19---final-report-1100hr-
28feb2020-11mar-update.pdf?sfvrsn=1a13fda0_2&download=true. Accessed on 7 
May 2020. WHO 2020b 
World Health Organization. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Situation Report – 51 
[resource on the Internet] 2020 [accessed on 12 May 2020]Available from: 
https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200311-
sitrep-51-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=1ba62e57_10. WHO 2020c 
 
World Health Organization. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Situation Report – 
51. Available from: https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-
reports/20200311-sitrep-51-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=1ba62e57_10. Accessed on 26 
February 2021. 
Pan H, Peto R, Henao-Restrepo AM, et al., for the WHO Solidarity Trial Consortium. 
Repurposed Antiviral Drugs for Covid-19 - Interim WHO Solidarity Trial Results. N 
Engl J Med. 2021;384(6):497-511. 
Wu Z, McGoogan JM. Characteristics of and important lessons from the coronavirus 
disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak in China: Summary of a report of 72314 cases 
from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. JAMA 
2020;323(13):1239−42. 
Xu X, Han M, Li T, et al. Effective treatment of severe COVID-19 patients with 
tocilizumab. ChinaXiv preprint [resource on the Internet]. 2020 [updated 5 March 
2020; cited 17 March 2020]. Available from: 
http://www.chinaxiv.org/abs/202003.00026. 
Xiao W, Hodge DR, Wang L, Yang X, Zhang X, Farrar WL. Co-operative functions 
between nuclear factors NfkappaB and CCAT/enhancer-binding protein-beta 
(C/EBP-beta) regulate the IL-6 promoter in autocrine human prostate cancer cells. 
Prostate 2004;61:354-370. [1040] 
Xu L, Liu J, Lu M, Yang D, Zheng X. Liver injury during highly pathogenic human 
coronavirus infections. Liver Int. 2020;40(5):998‐1004. 
Yamamoto N, Bauer G. Apparent difference in fatalities between Central Europe and 
East Asia due to SARS-COV-2 and COVID-19: Four hypotheses for possible 
explanation. Med Hypotheses. 2020 Aug 5;144:110160. 
Yancy CW. COVID-19 and African Americans [published online ahead of print, 2020 Apr 
15]. JAMA. 2020;10.1001/jama.2020.6548. 
Yang X, Yang Q, Wang Y, et al. Thrombocytopenia and its association with mortality in 
patients with COVID-19 [published online ahead of print, 2020 Apr 17]. J Thromb 
Haemost. 2020;10.1111/jth.14848. Yang 2020a 
Yang X, Yu Y, Xu J, et al. Clinical course and outcomes of critically ill patients with 
SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a single-centered, retrospective, 
observational study. Lancet Respir Med. 2020; 8(5):475‐481. Yang 2020b. 
Yang J, Zheng Y, Gou X, et al. Prevalence of comorbidities and its effects in coronavirus 
disease 2019 patients: A systematic review and meta-analysis [published online 
ahead of print, 2020 Mar 12]. Int J Infect Dis. 2020;94:91‐95. Yang 2020c 
Yates M, Loke YK, Watts RA, and McGregor AJ. Prednisolone combined with adjunctive 
immunosuppression is not superior to prednisolone alone in terms of efficacy and 
safety in giant cell arteritis: meta-analysis. Clinical Rheumatology. 2014;33:227-
236. DOI:10.1007/s10067-013-2384-2. [11083] 
 
Young A, et al. Mortality in rheumatoid arthritis. Increased in the early course of disease, 
in ischaemic heart disease and in pulmonary fibrosis. Rheumatology 2007;46:350-
357. [8116] 
Yu H, Kortylewski M, Pardoll D. Crosstalk between cancer and immune cells: role of 
STAT3 in the tumour microenvironment. Nat Rev Immunol 2007;7:41-51. [1047] 
Zangrillo A, Beretta L, Scandroglio AM, et al. Characteristics, treatment, outcomes and 
cause of death of invasively ventilated patients with COVID-19 ARDS in Milan, 
Italy [published online ahead of print, 2020 Apr 23]. Crit Care Resusc. 2020. 
Zhang C, Shi L, Wang FS. Liver injury in COVID-19: management and challenges. 
Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2020;5(5):428‐430 (Zhang 2020a). 
Zhang JJ, Dong X, Cao YY, et al. Clinical characteristics of 140 patients infected with 
SARS-CoV-2 in Wuhan, China [published online ahead of print, 2020 Feb 19]. 
Allergy. 2020;10.1111/all.14238 (Zhang 2020b). 
Zhou F, Yu T, Du R, et al. Clinical course and risk factors for mortality of adult inpatients 
with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China: a retrospective cohort study [published correction 
appears in Lancet. 2020 Mar 28;395(10229):1038] [published correction appears 
in Lancet. 2020 Mar 28;395(10229):1038]. Lancet. 2020;395(10229):1054‐1062. 
 
 
 
 
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK-MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
ROACTEMRA (TOCILIZUMAB) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan for RoActemra. The RMP details 
important risks of RoActemra, how these risks can be minimized, and how more 
information will be obtained about RoActemra risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
RoActemra Summary of Product Characteristics and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how RoActemra should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for RoActemra should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
RoActemra RMP. 
I. THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
RoActemra is authorized for rheumatoid arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis, giant cell arteritis, cytokine release syndrome induced by 
CAR T cell therapies, and COVID-19 (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
tocilizumab as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion or 
subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of RoActemra benefits can be found in 
RoActemra EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency website, under the medicine’s webpage.  
II. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of RoActemra, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about RoActemra risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.  
In the case of RoActemra, these measures are supplemented with additional risk 
minimization measures mentioned under relevant risks, below.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of RoActemra is not yet available, it 
is listed under ‘missing Information’ below. 
II.A  LIST OF IMPORTANT RISKS AND MISSING INFORMATION 
Important risks of RoActemra are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks 
are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of RoActemra. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is 
possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-
term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Serious infection * 
Complications of diverticulitis * 
Neutropenia 
Hepatotoxicity 
Important potential risks 
Thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of bleeding 
Elevated lipid levels and the potential risk of cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular events 
Malignancies 
Demyelinating disorders 
Immunogenicity 
Missing information 
None 
* The safety concerns “serious infection” and “complications of diverticulitis” are considered 
important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but are assessed as important potential 
risks for the indication of COVID-19. 
 
 
II.B   
SUMMARY OF IMPORTANT RISKS  
Important Identified Risk: Serious infections * 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence.  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Patients with diabetes reported a higher rate of serious 
infections compared to patients without diabetes. Patients 
treated with TCZ and taking background corticosteroids 
reported a higher rate of serious infections compared to 
patients not taking background corticosteroids. The rate of 
serious infections appears to increase by body weight. 
Healthcare professionals should exercise caution when 
considering the use of TCZ in patients with a history of 
recurring or chronic infections or with underlying conditions 
(e.g., diverticulitis, diabetes, and ILD which may predispose 
patients to infections). 
Routine risk measure: 
SmPC 
IV and SC formulation: 
Section 4.3 Contraindications Active, severe infections (see 
Section 4.4) 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet: 
IV and SC Formulation 
Section 2. What you need to know before you are given TCZ  
Section 4 Possible serious side effects: tell a doctor 
straightaway. 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Patient Alert Card 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Epidemiology data 
•  EU registries (Ongoing: RABBIT, WA29358) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan.  
Important Identified Risk: Complications of Diverticulitis * 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence.  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
TCZ should be used with caution in patients with previous 
history of intestinal ulceration or diverticulitis. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk minimization measure: 
SmPC 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet:  
Section 2 Warnings and precautions  
Section 4 Possible side effects 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Patient Alert Card 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Epidemiology data 
•  EU registries (Ongoing: RABBIT, WA29358) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Important Identified Risk: Neutropenia 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
None identified 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration  
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects/Laboratory evaluations 
Patient Information Leaflet  
Section 4 Possible Side Effects 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Epidemiology data 
•  EU registries (Ongoing: RABBIT)  
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Important Identified Risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Treatment with other hepatotoxic drugs (e.g., MTX). 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration (IV 
formulation) 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet  
(IV/SC formulation) 
Section 2 Warning and precautions 
Section 4 Possible side effects 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
In patients with RA, GCA, pJIA, sJIA, ALT and AST should 
now be monitored every 4 to 8 weeks for the first 6 months of 
treatment followed by every 12 weeks thereafter. 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Patient Alert Card 
DHPC 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Epidemiology data 
•  EU registries (Ongoing: RABBIT) 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Important Potential Risk : Thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of bleeding 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Not identified 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC: 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects  
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration (IV 
formulation) 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Epidemiology data 
•  EU registries (Ongoing: RABBIT) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Important Potential Risk : Elevated Lipid Levels and Potential Risk of 
Cardiovascular/Cerebrovascular Events 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Not identified 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Patient Information Leaflet  
Section 2 Warnings and precautions 
Section 4 Possible side effects 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries (Ongoing: RABBIT, WA29358) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Important Potential Risk: Malignancies 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
None identified 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use  
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Patient Brochure 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Epidemiology data 
•  EU registries (Ongoing : RABBIT, WA29358) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Important Potential Risk: Demyelinating Disorders 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Treatment with other hepatotoxic drugs (e.g., MTX). 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Healthcare Provider Brochure 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Epidemiology data 
EU registries (Ongoing: RABBIT) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Important Potential Risk : Immunogenicity 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Adequate and well-controlled clinical trials and their long-term 
extensions, as described within this RMP, provide the 
strongest evidence. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Not identified 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Pack size: None 
Medicine’s legal status: RoActemra is a prescription only 
medicine 
No Additional Risk Minimization Measure 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
IV=Intravenous; SC=Subcutaneous; SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics; 
TCZ=Tocilizumab 
* The safety concerns “serious infection” and “complications of diverticulitis” are 
considered important identified risks for chronic TCZ dosing, but are assessed as 
important potential risks for the indication of COVID-19. 
POST-AUTHORIZATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN 
II.C  
II.C.1  Studies That Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of RoActemra. 
II.C.2  Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Study short name: ML28664 (formerly tracked as GA28719) (RABBIT) 
Purpose of the study: The long-term observation of treatment with biologics in RA 
(RABBIT) in German biologics registry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study short name: WA29358  
Purpose of the study: To provide long-term safety and efficacy data from the use of TCZ 
in pJIA patients. 
 
 
 
ANNEX 4 SPECIFIC ADVERSE DRUG REACTION FOLLOW-UP 
FORMS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
