SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR ROCLANDA (LATANOPROST + 
NETARSUDIL) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Roclanda. The RMP details important 
risks of Roclanda, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Roclanda's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Roclanda's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Roclanda should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Roclanda should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Roclanda's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Roclanda is authorised for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in adult patients with 
primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom monotherapy with a 
prostaglandin or netarsudil provides insufficient IOP reduction (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains latanoprost and netarsudil as the active substances and it is given via eye 
drops. 
Further information about the evaluation of Roclanda’s benefits can be found in Roclanda’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/roclanda. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks
Important risks of Roclanda together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Roclanda's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so as to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Roclanda is not yet available, it is listed 
under “missing information” below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Roclanda are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Roclanda. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
•  None 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  Eye irritation, symptoms of dry eyes, disruption of the tear film and 
corneal surface, due to use of eye drops containing preservatives 
•  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
•  Long term safety of netarsudil (beyond 12 months) 
•  Use in patients with compromised corneal epithelium 
 
 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential Risk: Eye irritation, symptoms of dry eyes, disruption of the tear film and corneal 
surface, due to use of eye drops containing preservatives 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Preservatives used in topical glaucoma medications have a plethora 
of well-described toxic effects on the ocular surface. Evidence that 
ocular toxicity can manifest clinically as ocular surface disease 
(OSD) has been obtained from epidemiologic and prospective 
clinical trials and studies (Thygesen 2018). Clinically, OSD is 
common in glaucoma patients receiving long-term topical 
medication. However, this detrimental effect is not solely related to 
eye drop preservatives and may be caused by the medication itself 
or arise naturally due to aging, especially for patients with pre-
existing ocular diseases. However, no specific tests are currently 
available to make a clear-cut diagnosis between what is caused by 
the disease and what is the effect of its therapy (Mantelli 2011). 
Any substance instilled into the eye, whether it is an active agent, 
preservative, or inactive ingredient, has the potential for inducing at 
least some cellular toxicity and ocular surface changes in the patient 
population. With long-term use, eye drops containing preservatives 
may result in corneal or conjunctival damage depending on the 
duration and frequency of use. 
Care should therefore be taken to avoid the long-term use of 
preservatives.  
SmPC section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
(guidance with respect to the potential effects of benzalkonium 
chloride) 
Patient Information Leaflet Section 2 What you need to know 
before you use Roclanda (guidance with respect to the potential 
effects of BAK) 
Legal status: 
Restricted medical prescription. 
There are no additional risk minimisation measures planned. 
Missing information: Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  SmPC section 4.6 Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
(guidance with respect to the lack of data in pregnancy and 
breastfeeding). 
•  Patient Information Leaflet Section 2 What you need to know 
before you use Roclanda (guidance with respect to the lack of 
data in pregnancy and breastfeeding). 
Legal status: 
Restricted medical prescription. 
There are no additional risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
Missing information: Long-term safety of netarsudil (beyond 12 months) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
(guidance with respect to lack of data beyond 12 months)  
Legal status: 
Restricted medical prescription. 
There are no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Missing information: Use in patients with compromised corneal epithelium 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties (guidance 
with respect to lack of data in patients with compromised 
corneal epithelium) 
Legal status: 
Restricted medical prescription. 
There are no additional risk minimisation measures. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Roclanda. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Roclanda. 
 
