Summary of risk management plan for ROLUFTA ELLIPTA 
This is a summary of the risk  management plan  (RMP) for ROLUFTA ELLIPTA. The RMP 
details  important  risks of ROLUFTA ELLIPTA, how these risks can be minimised,  and how 
more information  will  be obtained  about ROLUFTA  ELLIPTA's risks and uncertainties 
(missing  information). 
ROLUFTA ELLIPTA's summary  of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give  essential information  to healthcare professionals  and patients on how INCRUSE 
ELLIPTA should  be used. 
This summary  of the RMP for ROLUFTA ELLIPTA should  be read in the context of all  this 
information  including  the assessment report of the evaluation  and its plain-language  summary, 
all  which is part of the European  Public  Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new concerns or changes to the current ones will  be included  in  updates of 
ROLUFTA ELLIPTA's RMP.i 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
ROLUFTA ELLIPTA is authorised  for maintenance bronchodilator  treatment to relieve 
symptoms  in  adult  patients with Chronic  Obstructive  Pulmonary  Disease (COPD) (see SmPC 
for the full  indication).  It contains  umeclidinium  bromide  as the active substance and it is given 
by inhalation  route. 
Further information  about  the evaluation  of ROLUFTA ELLIPTA’s benefits  can be found  in 
ROLUFTA ELLIPTA’s EPAR, including  in its plain-language  summary,  available  on the 
EMA website, under the medicine’s  webpage: link  to product’s EPAR summary  landing  page 
on the EMA webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/rolufta-ellipta 
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities  to minimise  or 
further characterise the risks 
Important  risks of ROLUFTA ELLIPTA, together with  measures to minimise  such risks and 
the proposed  studies for learning  more about [invented  name]'s risks,  are outlined  below. 
1 
 
Measures to minimise  the risks identified  for medicinal  products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such as warnings,  precautions,  and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important  advice on the medicine’s  packaging; 
•  The authorised  pack size  — the amount  of medicine  in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine  is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s  legal  status — the way a medicine  is supplied  to the patient  (e.g. with 
or without  prescription)  can help to minimise  its risks. 
Together,  these measures constitute  routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of ROLUFTA ELLIPTA, these measures are supplemented  with additional risk 
minimization measures mentioned  under relevant  important  risks, below. 
In addition  to these measures, information  about adverse reactions is collected  continuously 
and regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR assessment - so that immediate  action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute  routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important  information  that may affect the safe use of ROLUFTA ELLIPTA is not yet 
available,  it is listed  under ‘missing  information’  below. 
II.A 
List of important  risks  and missing  information 
Important  risks of ROLUFTA ELLIPTA are risks that need special  risk management activities 
to further investigate  or minimise  the risk,  so that the medicinal  product can be safely 
administered.   Important  risks can be regarded as identified  or potential.  Identified  risks are 
concerns for which  there is sufficient  proof of a link  with the use of ROLUFTA ELLIPTA. 
Potential  risks are concerns for which an association  with  the use of this medicine  is possible 
based on available  data, but this association  has not been established  yet and needs further 
evaluation.  Missing  information  refers to information  on the safety of the medicinal  product 
that is currently  missing  and needs to be collected  (e.g. on the long-term  use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important  identified  risks 
None 
Important  potential  risks 
Cardio- and Cerebrovascular Disorders 
Lower  Respiratory 
pneumonia) 
Tract 
Infection 
(incl. 
M issing information 
None 
2 
 
 
II.B 
Summary  of important  risks 
Important potential risk: Cardio- and cerebrovascular  disorders 
Evidence for linking  the  risk to  the 
medicine 
Cardiovascular effects  have been associated  with  use of  long-acting 
muscarinic antagonists  in patients  with  COPD, however, no clear 
associations  have been observed in the  clinical  development  programme 
for UM EC. 
Risk factors  and risk groups 
Patients  with  severe cardiovascular disease are at  increased risk of future 
cardiovascular events. 
Older age, a history  of previous cardiac disease and worse lung  function 
were predictive  of  increased risk of  cardiovascular events in the  COPD 
population  [Error!  Reference source  not found., 2007]. 
Risk minimisation  measures 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
Additional  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Section  4.4  and section  4.8 of  the  SmPC (also Section  2 and  4 of  Product 
Leaflet). 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance  activities: 
Study 201038,Post-authorisation  Safety  (PAS) Observational  Cohort  Study 
to  Quantify  the Incidence  and Comparative  Safety  of  Selected 
Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Events in COPD Patients  Using 
Inhaled  UM EC/VI Combination,  or Inhaled  UM EC versus Tiotropium.. 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development  plan. 
Important potential risk: Lower Respiratory Tract Infection (incl. pneumonia) 
Evidence for linking  the  risk to  the 
medicine 
The risk of  pneumonia  is associated  with  use of long-acting  muscarinic 
antagonists  in patients  with  COPD, no associations  have been observed in 
the  clinical  development  programme for  UM EC 
Risk factors  and risk groups 
The incidence of  pneumonia,  including  pneumonia  requiring 
hospitalisation,  in a COPD population  is dependent  upon several patient 
characteristics,  such as increasing  age, COPD severity, low BM I (<20), 
male gender, concurrent smoking, and the presence of co-morbid 
conditions  [Error! Reference  source not found., 2009]. 
3 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Lower Respiratory Tract Infection (incl. pneumonia) 
Risk minimisation  measures 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
Section  4.8 of the  SmPC (also Section  2 and 4 of Product Leaflet). 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  None. 
Additional  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance  activities: 
None 
II.C 
Post-authorisation  development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following  studies  are conditions  of the marketing  authorisation: 
Study Short Name: Post-authorisation  Safety (PAS) Observational  Cohort  Study to Quantify 
the Incidence and Comparative  Safety of Selected Cardiovascular  and Cerebrovascular Events 
in COPD Patients Using  Inhaled  UMEC/VI Combination,  or Inhaled  UMEC versus 
Tiotropium  (Study201038). 
Purpose of the Study:  The purpose of this  study is to expand understanding  of the potential 
cardiovascular  (CV) and cerebrovascular risks of myocardial  infarction  (MI), stroke and new 
onset or acute worsening/decompensation  heart failure  of UMEC/VI and UMEC as compared  
to tiotropium.  Tiotropium  is a LAMA with  a well-established  safety and efficacy profile. 
The primary  objectives  of the study are:   
To demonstrate non-inferiority  of UMEC/VI combination  and UMEC to tiotropium  for 
1. 
risk of the composite  endpoint  of MI, stroke, heart failure  or sudden  cardiac death based on an 
analysis  of time  to first event for new users of UMEC/VI combination,  UMEC or Tiotropium. 
To quantify  the incidence  rate and frequency  of the composite  endpoint  of MI, stroke, 
2. 
heart failure  or sudden cardiac death for new users of UMEC/VI combination,  UMEC, and 
tiotropium. 
4 
 
 
 
                                              
