EMA/595684/2018 
EMEA/H/C/004654 
Rolufta Ellipta1 (umeclidinium bromide) 
An overview of Rolufta Ellipta and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rolufta Ellipta and what is it used for? 
Rolufta Ellipta is a medicine used to relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) in adults. COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs inside the lungs 
become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing. Rolufta Ellipta is used for maintenance 
(regular) treatment. 
Rolufta Ellipta contains the active substance umeclidinium bromide. 
How is Rolufta Ellipta used? 
Rolufta Ellipta is available as an inhalation powder in a portable inhaler device. Each inhalation 
provides 65 micrograms of umeclidinium bromide equivalent to 55 micrograms of umeclidinium. The 
recommended dose is one inhalation per day at the same time each day. For detailed information on 
how to use the inhaler correctly, see the instructions in the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Rolufta Ellipta work? 
The active substance in Rolufta Ellipta, umeclidinium bromide, is a muscarinic receptor antagonist. It 
works by blocking the action of so-called muscarinic receptors, which control the contraction of 
muscles. When umeclidinium bromide is inhaled, it relaxes the muscles of the airways. This helps to 
keep the airways open and allows the patient to breathe more easily. 
What benefits of Rolufta Ellipta have been shown in studies? 
Rolufta Ellipta was investigated in four main studies involving over 4,000 patients. Three studies 
compared Rolufta Ellipta with placebo (a dummy treatment), while one study compared Rolufta Ellipta 
with tiotropium (another medicine for COPD). The main measure of effectiveness was based on 
1 Previously known as Rolufta. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                       
changes in the patients’ forced expiratory volumes (FEV1, the maximum volume of air a person can 
breathe out in one second).  
Results showed that Rolufta Ellipta improved lung function by an average FEV1 by 127 ml more than 
placebo after 12 weeks of treatment and by 115 ml after 24 weeks of treatment. A double dose of 
Rolufta Ellipta only showed small improvements compared with a single dose, which were not 
considered relevant. In the study comparing Rolufta Ellipta with tiotropium, FEV1 improvements over 
24 weeks were similar for both medicines. 
The studies also showed an improvement in symptoms such as breathlessness and wheezing. 
What are the risks associated with Rolufta Ellipta? 
The most common side effects with Rolufta Ellipta (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), upper respiratory tract infection 
(nose and throat infection), sinusitis (inflammation of the sinuses), cough, urinary tract infection 
(infection of the structures that carry urine), and tachycardia (increased heart rate). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Rolufta Ellipta, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Rolufta Ellipta authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Rolufta Ellipta’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the EU. The Agency concluded that Rolufta Ellipta was shown to be 
effective at improving the lung function and symptoms of COPD. The Agency also noted that there 
were no major safety concerns with Rolufta Ellipta, with side effects being manageable and similar to 
other medicines of the same class (antimuscarinic bronchodilators). 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rolufta Ellipta? 
As medicines of the same class as Rolufta Ellipta may have an effect on the heart and blood vessels, 
the company that markets Rolufta Ellipta will carry out a long-term study in patients to collect further 
information on its safety in comparison with tiotropium.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rolufta Ellipta have also been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rolufta Ellipta are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Rolufta Ellipta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Rolufta Ellipta 
Rolufta Ellipta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 March 2017. This 
authorisation was based on the authorisation granted to Incruse Ellipta in 2014 (‘informed consent’).  
Further information on Rolufta Ellipta can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. 
This overview was last updated in 09-2018. 
Rolufta Ellipta0F (umeclidinium bromide)  
EMA/595684/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
