31 January 2019  
EMA/214229/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): rotavirus vaccine monovalent (live, oral) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002665/201807 
Period covered by the PSUR: 12 July 2017 - 11 July 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for rotavirus vaccine monovalent (live, 
oral), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
- Infants who have known or suspected immunodeficiency  
Section 4.4 of the SmPC of Rotarix includes a warning on administration of Rotarix to infants who have 
known or suspected immunodeficiency. Besides, the SmPC of immunosuppressive therapies, such as 
adalimumab, infliximab, includes a recommendation to defer live vaccine administration in infants who were 
exposed in utero to these treatments. Bond et al. (2018) suggested some non-compliance to such 
recommendation in a recent conference abstract. In order to strengthen the current warning on 
administration of Rotarix to infants who have known or suspected immunodeficiency, it is recommended to 
update the current warning.  
- Urticaria  
Despite a low reporting rate of urticaria events (i.e. 0.013 cases per 100,000 doses distributed), some 
spontaneous cases suggested a possible association between Rotarix vaccination and urticaria. This was 
supported by a very short time-to-onset (from immediate onset to a few hours), the absence of 
co-administered vaccines or drugs, and the rapid resolution of the event, with or without treatment. These 
data are considered sufficient to support the inclusion of urticaria in section 4.8 of the SmPC with the 
frequency very rare, as the SmPC guideline recommends to list in section 4.8 all adverse reactions for which, 
after a thorough assessment, a causal relationship between the medicinal product and the adverse event is 
at least a reasonable possibility.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC.  
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for rotavirus vaccine monovalent (live, oral) the CHMP is of the 
opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing rotavirus vaccine monovalent 
(live, oral) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information  
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/214229/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
