European Medicines Agency 
London, 26 June 2008 
Doc.Ref: EMEA/CHMP/481664/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Rotarix 
International Non-proprietary Name: human rotavirus, live attenuated 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/639/X/0010 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
INTRODUCTION 
Rotarix  is  an  oral  vaccine.  It  contains  one  live  attenuated  strain  (RIX4414)  of  human  rotavirus. 
Rotarix is indicated for the active immunisation of infants from the age of 6 weeks for prevention of 
gastro-enteritis due to rotavirus infection. In clinical trials, efficacy was demonstrated against gastro-
enteritis due to rotavirus of types G1P[8], G2P[4], G3P[8], G4P[8] and G9P[8].  
The  vaccination  course  consists  of  two  doses.  The  first  dose  may  be  administered  from  the  age  of 
6 weeks.  There  should  be  an  interval  of  at  least  4  weeks  between  doses.  The  vaccination  course 
should preferably be given before 16 weeks of age, but must be completed by the age of 24 weeks.  
Rotarix  powder  and  solvent  for  oral  suspension  is  already  licensed  for  the  above  mentioned 
indication. To date, Rotarix powder and solvent for oral suspension has been approved in more than 
100[A1] countries. In the European Union, the MAH submitted the initial application for Rotarix to the 
European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  via  the  Centralised Procedure on 21 December 2004 and the 
EU Commission Decision was granted on 21 February 2006.  
This application has been submitted under Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC as an extension to the 
licence for the Rotarix powder and solvent for oral suspension (EU/1/05/330/001-004) marketed by 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals to add the new pharmaceutical form oral suspension.  
The rationale behind this submission is to follow the recommendations of international organisations 
such as the World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the 
Pan American Health Organization (PAHO). The development of liquid vaccines is thought to lead to 
an  easier  handling  for  administration,  lower  costs  in  terms  of  shipment  and  storage,  and  a  higher 
manufacturing  capacity,  all  resulting  in  an  enhancement  of  vaccine  supply[amc2].  In  addition,  the 
application of Rotarix via tube and pre-filled oral applicator is thought to reduce the number of cases 
of maladministration that occurred with the lyophililised pharmaceutical form of Rotarix[A3]. 
The proposed pharmaceutical form oral suspension is intended for the same population for whom the 
Rotarix  powder  and  solvent  for  oral  suspension[A4]  is  currently  licensed.  Changes  are  proposed 
regarding  method  of  administration  due  to  the  nature  of  the  pharmaceutical  form  but  not  regarding 
dosing instructions.  
QUALITY ASPECTS 
Drug Substance  
The manufacturing of the liquid formulation vaccine does not imply any change at the drug substance 
level. Nevertheless the MAH resubmitted the original drug substance data and included the alternative 
QC  laboratories  in  a  dedicated  new  building  on  the  Wavre-Nord  site  and  the  latest  stability  data 
available for the HRV (human rotavirus) purified bulks. Results for three commercial purified bulks 
manufactured in 2002, after a storage period of 48 months, and results from the initial purified bulks 
stored for a maximum period of 73 months were provided. No loss of potency was observed. 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The active substance is unchanged as compared to the one included in the authorised HRV vaccine, 
Rotarix,  presented  as  a  lyophilised  vaccine  formulation.  HRV  liquid  vaccine  is  an  oral  suspension, 
presented  in  monodose  pre-filled  oral  applicator  (glass)  [amc5]or  in  polyethylene  tubes.  The  liquid 
preparation is ready-to-use and is to be administered orally. The concentration of the active substance 
per nominal dose remains unchanged.  
The  liquid  formulation  only  differs  from  the  authorised  lyophilised  vaccine  in  its  excipient 
composition, which is linked to manufacturing and vaccine stability constraints. HRV liquid vaccine 
is formulated to include as excipients sucrose, di-sodium adipate and DMEM (Dulbecco's Modified 
Eagle's Medium). 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  liquid  formulation  is  filled  in  monodose  pre-filled  oral  applicators  or  in  polyethylene  tubes  as 
outlined below: 
• 
• 
1.75  ml  clean,  sterile  oral  applicator,  uncoloured glass (Type I, Ph. Eur.) fitted with rubber tip 
caps. Plunger stoppers are of grey butyl rubber.   
3  ml  sterile  polyethylene  tubes  provided  with  a  nozzle  finished  by  an  opening,  sealed  by  an 
extractable strip and protected by a cap in polypropylene. 
The immediate packaging materials used for container-closure system of the liquid HRV vaccine are 
identical to those used for other vaccines manufactured by GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals[amc6].  
The  MAH  described  the  filling  process  for  both  containers.  The  in-process  controls  during  the 
formulation and the filling were presented. 
Furthermore,  detailed  drawings  for  the  polyethylene  tube  were  provided,  to  allow  a  better 
understanding of the description of the polyethylene tubes.  
The  process  validation  was  adequately  detailed  and  assessed  at  the  final  bulk  and  finished  product 
stages. 
The  procedures  in  place  for  the  labelling,  packaging  operations  and  vaccine  transportation  were 
summarised and found acceptable. 
Product Specification 
The justification of specifications and a summary of the analytical methods were provided.  
Stability of the Product 
HRV  liquid  vaccine  has  been  shown  to  be  stable.  There  is  no  major  potency  loss  upon  storage  at 
+2°C/+8°C. There is also no potency loss after incubation of the liquid HRV vaccine at 37°C for 7 
days, although a decrease in virus titre is observed when it is incubated at 37°C for longer period of 
time.  All  the  stability  data  presented  have  been  generated  on  vaccine  lots  representative  of  the 
proposed commercial formulation and presentation. It is anticipated that the HRV liquid vaccine will 
remain  stable  up  to  36  months  at  +2°C  to  +8°C.  This  is  based  on  the  comparability  between  the 
currently  approved  lyophilised  presentation  and  the  liquid  presentation  of  HRV  vaccine  produced 
with  a  different  formulation  process,  and  based  on  the  currently  available  data  from  real-time  and 
accelerated stability studies.  
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The shelf-life at +2°C to +8°C does start from the date the vaccine is removed from the freezer for 
final  labelling  and  packaging.  Long-term stability studies have been undertaken in order to validate 
the storage of the liquid vaccine for 24 months at –20°C followed by 36 months at +2°C/+8°C. 
The  MAH  agreed  to  provide  an  overview  of  the  stability  results  after  completion  of  all  stability 
studies  outlined  under  3.2.P.8.2  in  the  documentation  and  to  communicate  the  observation  of  any 
abnormal trend during the ongoing stability studies as outlined in the MAH Letter of Undertaking. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  MAH  submitted  sufficient  data  to  demonstrate  that  the  quality  of  the  liquid  HRV  vaccine  is 
assured by a validated manufacturing process. The new specifications for the liquid formulation are 
adequately justified and the 20 first batches including commercial batches pass the specifications. On 
the basis of the available stability data, the liquid formulation is considered as a stable vaccine. 
CLINICAL ASPECTS 
Introduction 
The  clinical  development  plan  was  based  on  the  MAH’s  proposal  to  recommend  two  doses  of  the 
liquid  formulation  of  the  HRV  vaccine  with  the  same  virus  strain  (RIX4414)  and  identical  viral 
strength  (at  least  106.0  CCID50  as  shown by live viral titration) administered according to the same 
vaccination schedule (two doses administered from the age of 6 weeks with an interval of at least four 
weeks between doses) as for the authorised lyophilised Rotarix vaccine.  
In  support  of  this  line  extension  procedure,  the  immunogenicity  and  safety  profile  of  the  liquid 
formulation  was  reviewed  and  directly  compared  to  data  obtained  with  the  authorised  lyophilised 
Rotarix vaccine. 
The immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity data generated with the liquid formulation of Rotarix 
are  derived  from  four  studies  (Rota-048,  Rota-051,  Rota-057  and  Rota-061).  The  details  of  these 
studies are described in detail in the section on clinical efficacy below. 
In  all  studies,  a  physical  examination  and  recording  of  medical  history  established  eligibility  for 
enrolment. As blinding was technically not possible between the liquid and lyophilised formulation, 
the  studies  were  open  label  for  liquid  formulation  versus  the  lyophilised  formulation.  The  placebo-
controlled  studies  Rota-048  and  Rota-051  were  conducted  in  a  double-blind  manner  for  each  HRV 
vaccine formulation and its respective placebo. Study Rota-061 was double-blind for three lots of the 
liquid formulation of GSK Bio HRV vaccine and Rota-057 was an open-label study. 
In all trials, healthy infants previously uninfected with HRV were enrolled to receive two doses of the 
HRV vaccine. At first dose, infants were aged 6 to 12 weeks (Rota-048 and Rota-057), 6 to 10 weeks 
(Rota-051), and 10-17 weeks (Rota-061). The two HRV vaccine doses were to be given at the age of 2 
and 3 months (Rota-048), 2 and 4 months (Rota-057), or 3 and 4 months (Rota-061). In study Rota-
051,  vaccine  doses  were  to  be  given  according  to  two  WHO  Expanded  Program  of  Immunisation 
(EPI) vaccination schedules, i.e., 8 and 12 weeks or 8 and 16 weeks. 
In  study  Rota-048,  all  routine  childhood  vaccines  (i.e.  Bacille  Calmette-Guérin  vaccine  (BCG), 
diphtheria and tetanus with acellular pertussis vaccine (DTPa), Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) 
vaccine, hepatitis B vaccine (HBV) and inactivated polio vaccine (IPV), were administered at least 14 
days  apart  from  each  dose  of  HRV  vaccine  or  placebo.  In  study  Rota-061,  the  first  two  doses  of  a 
combined  childhood  vaccine  (DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib)  were co-administered at 3 and 4 months of age 
with each dose of HRV vaccine. 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  study  Rota-051,  routine  EPI  vaccines  (diphtheria-tetanus-whole  cell  pertussis  [DTPw],  HBV  and 
oral  polio  vaccine  [OPV])  were  co-administered  with  the  first  and  second  dose  of  HRV  vaccine. 
Similarly, in study Rota-057, combined DTPw-HBV/Hib vaccine as well as OPV, were administered 
concomitantly with the HRV vaccines. 
In support of the extension application , the MAH also provided laboratory data collected on cases of 
gastro-enteritis  (GE)  episodes  reported  during  the  period  between  the  administration  of  dose  1  and 
one to two months after administration of dose 2 of HRV vaccine or placebo. GE samples were tested 
for  RV  detection.  RV  -  positive  samples  (RVGE)  were  subsequently  analysed  by  Reverse-
Transcriptase  Polymerase  Chain  Reaction  (RT-PCR)  to  determine  the  HRV  strain  (wild  type  or 
vaccine). 
With  regards to demographics, in studies Rota-048 and Rota-061, conducted in Finland, 98.7% and 
98.6% of the subjects, respectively, were White-Caucasian. In study Rota-051, conducted in Vietnam, 
all  subjects  were  Asian  of  south  East  Asian  heritage.  In  study  Rota-057,  conducted  in  Panama,  the 
majority  of  subjects (96.2%) was classified as ‘other’, reported as ‘metisse or native chocoe’. With 
respect  to  other  demographic  characteristics,  there  were  no  major  differences  between  the  four 
studies.  Within  each  study,  the  demographic  profile  of  the  vaccine  groups  and  the  placebo/control 
group was comparable with respect to mean age, gender, mean height and mean weight. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH 
The MAH provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Due to the nature and mechanism of action for vaccines evaluation of pharmacokinetic properties is 
not  required  for  the  Marketing  Authorisation  and  was  not  considered  necessary  for  this  extension 
application. 
Pharmacodynamics 
[A7]Mechanism of action 
The immunologic mechanism by which Rotarix protects against rotavirus gastro-enteritis (GE) is not 
completely  understood.  A  relationship  between  antibody  responses  to  rotavirus  vaccination  and 
protection  against  rotavirus  GE  has  not  been  established  (see  also  section  5.1  of  the  SPC). 
Comparative immunogenicity data (seroconversion rate, serum anti-rotavirus IgA antibody titres and 
HRV shedding) are discussed under section “clinical efficacy” below.  
Clinical efficacy 
The clinical efficacy was supported by four studies, which are described below: 
Study Rota-048 (Finland) 
Design: Phase II, double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled study with 4 parallel groups. Subjects 
received 2 doses of either liquid or lyophilised formulation of HRV vaccine, or the respective placebo 
formulation, according to a 0, 1 month schedule given to healthy infants previously uninfected with 
HRV and aged 2 months (6 to 12 weeks) at the time of first vaccination: 
•  Group HRV liquid formulation (N = 100) 
•  Group Placebo for HRV liquid formulation (N = 25) 
•  Group HRV lyophilised formulation (N = 100) 
•  Group Placebo for HRV lyophilised formulation (N = 25) 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All subjects received routine childhood vaccinations as described above. Routine vaccines were to be 
administered at least 14 days apart from each dose of the HRV vaccine/ placebo. 
Objectives:  
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  immunogenicity  of  the  liquid formulation of the HRV vaccine 
compared to the lyophilised formulation of the HRV vaccine.  
Secondary  objectives  were  to  assess  the  immunogenicity  in  terms  of  geometric  mean  antibody 
concentration  (GMC)  after  each  dose  and  seroconversion  rates  after  each  dose  and  on  combined 
doses;  and  to  assess  the  reactogenicity  and  safety  of  the  liquid  formulation  of  the  HRV  vaccine 
compared to the lyophilised formulation of the HRV vaccine. 
Results:  
250 infants aged 9.1 ± 1.94 weeks (mean ± SD) were enrolled and vaccinated. 
The  immunogenicity  (in  the  according-to-Protocol  (ATP)  cohort)  in  terms  of  vaccine  take  on 
combined doses, anti-rotavirus IgA seroconversion rates and rotavirus shedding was similar between 
the  two  vaccine  formulations.  The  seroconversion  rates  at  one  month  after  the  second  dose  were 
83.7% for the lyophilised formulation and 90.0% for the liquid formulation. GMCs calculated on all 
subjects  were  360.6  U/ml  after  lyophilised  HRV  vaccine  and  301.3  U/ml  after  liquid  formulation 
HRV vaccine. Vaccine take on combined dose 1 and dose 2 was 93.4% with the liquid formulation 
and 89.4% with the lyophilised HRV vaccine formulation, and was not statistically different between 
the two vaccine formulation groups. No rotavirus shedding and anti-rotavirus IgA seroconversion was 
observed in the placebo groups. 
Rota-051 (Vietnam) 
Design: Phase II, double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled study with 3 parallel groups in healthy 
infants previously uninfected with HRV and aged 6 to 10 weeks at the time of first vaccination with 
liquid formulation of HRV vaccine. Subjects received a second dose of liquid HRV vaccine either one 
month post dose 1 (+ placebo at two months post dose 1) or at two months post dose 1 (+ placebo one 
month post dose 1), or received 3 doses of placebo. 
•  Group  HRV  liquid  formulation  0,  1  month  (N  =  150),  i.e.  co-administered  with  first  and 
second dose of EPI vaccines referred to as V–V–PL group 
•  Group  HRV  liquid  formulation  0,  2  months  (N  =  147),  i.e.  co-administered  with  first  and 
third dose of EPI vaccines, referred to as V–PL-V group 
•  Group Placebo for HRV lyophilised formulation (N = 78) 
Routine  EPI  childhood  vaccines  (DTPw,  HBV  and  OPV),  were  co-administered  with  each  dose  of 
HRV vaccine or placebo[amc8].   
Objectives:  
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  immunogenicity  of  HRV  liquid  vaccine  versus  placebo,  in 
terms of anti-RV IgA antibody seroconversion at month 2, when administered concomitantly with the 
first and second routine EPI vaccines. 
Secondary objectives were to assess immunogenicity of HRV liquid vaccine versus placebo, in terms 
of anti-RV IgA antibody seroconversion at month 2 when administered concomitantly with the first 
and  second  doses of routine EPI vaccines, and at month 3, when co-administered with the first and 
third  doses  of  routine  EPI  vaccines.  The  immunogenicity  in  terms  of  GMC  after  two HRV vaccine 
doses and the reactogenicity and safety of the liquid formulation of the HRV vaccine versus placebo 
as well as the presence of RV in GE stools collected after administration of first dose up to month 3 
were also assessed as secondary objectives. 
Results:  
375 infants aged 8.7 ± 1.07 weeks (mean ± SD) were enrolled and vaccinated. 
The anti-RV seroconversion rates measured one month after dose 2 of the HRV vaccine were 63.3% 
(95% CI: 54.3;71.6) when co-administered with the first and second dose of EPI vaccines (V-V-PL) 
and  81.5%  (95%  CI:  73.4;88.0)  when  co-administered  with  the  first  and  third  dose  of  routine  EPI 
vaccines  (V-PL-V).  At  one  month  after  dose  2  of  HRV  vaccine,  anti-RV  GMCs  calculated  on  all 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects were 77.4 U/ml (95% CI: 55.2; 108.6) in the V-V-PL group and 176.3 U/ml (95% CI: 123.8; 
251.1) in the V-PL-V group. The seroconversion rate observed in the placebo group was 7.8% when 
the  mean  age  of  the  subjects  was  17.3  weeks  indicating  that  natural  infection  with  wild  type  RV 
occurred  rather early in these subjects during the study. Nonetheless, the seroconversion rate in the 
placebo group was significantly lower than the rates observed in both HRV vaccine groups. 
RV was not isolated from any of the stool samples tested in case of GE episodes from dose 1 up to 
visit 4.  
Rota-057 (Panama) 
This  was  a  Phase  III,  open-label,  randomised  (1:1)  study  with  two  parallel  groups  receiving  two 
different  formulations  of  HRV  vaccine,  either  liquid  (HRV_LIQ)  or  lyophilised  formulation 
(HRV_LYO),  according  to  a  two-dose  0,  2  month  vaccination  schedule  given  to  healthy  infants 
previously uninfected with HRV and aged 2 months (6 to 12 weeks) at the time of first vaccination.  
Routine  EPI  vaccines  (i.e.  combined  DTPw-HBV/Hib  vaccine)  including  OPV,  were  administered 
concurrently with the HRV vaccines, and according to the EPI recommendations in Panama. 
Objectives:  
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  immunogenicity,  in  terms  of  anti-rotavirus  IgA  antibody 
seroconversion  rates  at  one  month  after  the  two-dose  primary  vaccination  course  with  the  liquid 
formulation of the HRV vaccine compared to that of the registered lyophilised HRV vaccine.  
Secondary  objectives  were  to  assess  the  immunogenicity  of  the  two  formulations  of  HRV  vaccine, 
after a two-dose primary vaccination course in terms of GMC and in terms of vaccine take (in a subset 
of subjects). The reactogenicity and safety of the study vaccines was also assessed. 
Results: 
1274 infants aged 8.6 ± 0.86 weeks (mean ± SD) were enrolled and vaccinated. 
From  the  total  vaccinated  cohort  of  1274  subjects  (636  subjects  in  the  Rotarix  liquid  formulation 
group:  HRV_LIQ  and  638  subjects  in  the  Rotarix  lyophilised  formulation  group:  HRV_LYO),  374 
subjects were eliminated.  
A total of 900 subjects (456 in the HRV_LIQ group and 444 in the HRV_LYO group) were included 
in  the  ATP  cohort  for  immunogenicity.  The  code  ‘essential  serological  data  missing’  was  the  main 
cause  of  elimination  (37%  of  the  eliminated  subjects:  139  out  of  374[amc9])..Other  reasons  are 
presented below: 
•  83 subjects received a vaccine dose that was not administered according to protocol.  
•  2 subjects were initially seropositive or had an unknown status for serum anti-rotavirus IgA  
antibodies on the day of dose 1. 
•  50  subjects  were  not  compliant  with  vaccination  schedule  (including  wrong  and  unknown 
dates).  
•  20  subjects  received  concomitant  vaccines  forbidden  in  the  protocol  (such as Rotarix given 
during  the  National  EPI  program,  or  other  vaccines  (Prevenar  and  BCG  during  the  period 
within 14 days before and after each dose of study vaccine). 
[A10] 
Among the causes, for 38 (27%) of the 139 subjects eliminated due to missing essential serological 
data “irrelevant results” were obtained. The MAH clarified the root cause of these irrelevant results 
and the distribution of these subjects in the two HRV vaccine groups, as these were mainly protocol 
deviations  and  unavailable  or  invalid  laboratory  results  which  were  evenly  distributed  between  the 
HRV_LIQ and HRV_LYO groups. 
In  total,  of  the  1274  subjects  included  in  the  Total  Vaccinated  Cohort  (TVC),  165  subjects  were 
excluded  from  the  ATP  cohort for safety due to: concomitant vaccination forbidden in the protocol 
(20 subjects), vaccine dose not administered as defined in the protocol (83 subjects), initially positive 
result for RV (in serum or in stool) / unknown status for RV on day of dose 1 (62 subjects). 
1109 subjects (557 subjects in the HRV_ LIQ group and 552 subjects in the HRV_ LYO group) were 
included in the ATP cohort for safety.  
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 1109 subjects included in the ATP cohort for safety, 209 subjects were excluded from the ATP 
cohort for immunogenicity due to protocol violation related to inclusion/exclusion criteria in the study 
(3  subjects),  medication  forbidden  in  the  protocol  (3  subjects),  non-compliance  with  vaccination 
schedule (50 subjects), non-compliance with blood sampling schedule (14 subjects), post-vaccination 
serological data and planned stool data not available (139 subjects[amc11]).  
Seroconversion  rates  following  two  doses  of  liquid  formulation  HRV  vaccine  co-administered  with 
OPV were 80.8% (95% CI, 76.9; 84.4) with a GMC calculated on all subjects of 151.2 U/ml (95% CI: 
128.0;  178.7).  The  seroconversion  rate  in  the  group  that  received  the  lyophilised  formulation  was 
73.5%  [95%  CI:  69.1%;  77.6%]  with  a  GMC  of  111.7  U/ml  [95%  CI:  93.5%;  133.4].  When 
considering  GMCs  calculated  on  seropositive  subjects,  the  GMCs  after  the  liquid  formulation  and 
after the lyophilised HRV vaccine were found to be comparable (287.8 U/ml [95% CI: 250.2; 331.2] 
and  266.6  U/ml  [95%  CI:  228.6;  310.8],  respectively).  In  terms  of  vaccine  take,  no  difference  was 
detected between the two HRV groups.  
Rota-061 (Finland) 
This  phase  III,  double-blind,  randomised,  study  with  4  parallel  groups  was  carried  out  in  healthy 
infants  previously  uninfected  with  HRV  and  aged  3  months  (10  to  17  weeks)  at  the  time  of  first 
vaccination. Subjects received 2 doses of one of the three clinical lots of liquid formulation of HRV 
vaccine  or  received  2  doses  of  the  registered  lyophilised  HRV  vaccine,  according  to  a  0,  1  month 
schedule: 
•  Group HRV liquid formulation lot A (“Liq_A”, N = 298)  
•  Group HRV liquid formulation lot B (“Liq_B”, N = 302) 
•  Group HRV liquid formulation lot C (“Liq_C”, N = 300) 
•  Group HRV lyophilised formulation (“Lyo”, N = 300) 
The  combined  childhood  vaccine  DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib 
concomitantly with each dose of the HRV vaccine. 
(Infanrix  hexa)  was  administered 
Objectives:  
The co-primary objectives were  
1) to demonstrate the lot-to-lot consistency of the liquid formulation of the HRV vaccine in terms of 
immunogenicity as measured by serum anti-rotavirus IgA antibody levels one month after dose 2 and  
2)  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  the  liquid  formulation  to  that  of  lyophilised  formulation  of  the 
HRV vaccine in terms of seroconversion rates one month after dose 2. 
Secondary  objectives  were  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  the  liquid  formulation  to  that  of 
lyophilised formulation of the HRV vaccine in terms of serum anti-rotavirus IgA antibody levels one 
month after dose 2. The lot-to-lot consistency of the liquid formulation of the HRV vaccine was also 
assessed in terms of reactogenicity. The safety of the study vaccines was also evaluated. 
Results 
1200 infants aged 11.6 ± 1.25 weeks (mean ± SD) were enrolled and vaccinated. 
Consistency of the three HRV vaccine lots of the liquid formulation was demonstrated since, for all 
pairs  of  lots,  the  two-sided  95%  CIs  for  the  ratio  of  anti-rotavirus  IgA  antibody  GMCs  one  month 
after dose 2 were within the [0.5; 2] clinical limit interval.  
Non-inferiority,  in  terms  of  seroconversion  rates,  of  the  liquid  formulation  to  that  of  lyophilised 
formulation of the HRV vaccine was demonstrated. 
Non-inferiority, in terms of serum anti-rotavirus IgA antibody levels, of the liquid formulation to that 
of  lyophilised  formulation  of  the  HRV  vaccine  was  demonstrated  since  the  upper  limit  of  the  two-
sided 95% CI for the ratio of anti-rotavirus IgA antibody GMCs one month after dose 2 between the 
lyophilised formulation of HRV vaccine and (over) the liquid formulation of HRV vaccine was less 
than or equal to 2. 
Incidence of GE between dose 1 and 1 to 2 months post dose 2 
In studies Rota-048 and Rota-051, the incidence of GE between dose 1 and 1 to 2 months post dose 2 
was similar between the groups receiving HRV (lyophilised or liquid) and placebo. In study Rota-048, 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  reported  incidence  of  GE  was  11.0%  (95%CI:  5.6%;  18.8%)  for  the  HRV  lyophilised 
(HRV_LYO), 6.0% (95%CI 2.2%; 12.6%) for the HRV liquid (HRV_LIQ), and 12% (95%CI: 4.5%; 
24.3%) for the placebo group. In Rota-051, the percentages were 16.7% (95% CI: 11.1%; 26.6%) and 
15.6% (95% CI: 10.2%; 22.5%) for the two groups receiving HRV_LIQ and 15.4% (95% CI: 8.2%; 
25.3%) for the placebo group. 
A total of 13 RVGE cases (6 from HRV_ LYO, 7 from HRV_LIQ) were reported across the 4 studies, 
among 2971 recipients of the HRV vaccine (1933 received the liquid formulation, 1038 received the 
lyophilised  formulation)  and  128  placebo  recipients.  Out  of  these  13  cases,  8  were  positive  for  the 
HRV vaccine strain (6 from HRV_LIQ and 2 from HRV_LYO). None of these cases was reported as 
serious adverse event nor resulted in hospitalisation. These data indicate that there is no difference in 
terms of RVGE incidence between the HRV liquid and the approved HRV lyophilised formulations 
during  the  period  within  the  administration  dose  1  and  one  to  two  months  post  dose  2.  This 
observation was expected as the immunogenicity and reactogenicity profiles as well as the shedding 
rate after vaccination are similar between both formulations[amc12]. 
Of note, the efficacy against RVGE between dose 1 and 14 days post dose 2 has been evaluated in a 
large controlled, randomised (1:1 vaccine to placebo), double blind efficacy study, Rota-036, with the 
lyophilised formulation. This study demonstrated that during the period from dose 1 to14 days post 
dose  2  (mean  duration:  2.4  months  in  each  study  group),  significantly  fewer  subjects  in  the  HRV 
vaccine group reported RVGE caused by the circulating wild-type RV compared to the placebo group 
(P-value  =  0.004).  The  corresponding  vaccine  efficacy  against  any  RVGE  within  that  period  was 
87.3% (95%CI: 36.2%; 98.7%). 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  submitted  data  provided  enough  indication  that  the  immunogenicity  (in  terms  of  IgA  antibody 
seroconversion rates, GMC and vaccine take) of this new liquid formulation is similar to the already 
registered lyophilised formulation.  
The CHMP noted that in study 051 the 0, 1 month administration schedule with the liquid formulation 
resulted in significantly lower seroconversion rates and GMCs compared to the 0, 2 month schedule 
with the liquid formulation. 
In this study seroconversion rate and GMCs were also significantly lower in the V-V-PL group than 
in  the  V-PL-V  group  (and  than  historical  controls  with  the  lyophilised  formulation  (Rota-006 
seroconversion 86.5%, GMCs 197.2 in 787 subjects)). In fact, the seroconversion rate was only 63% 
and  GMCs  were  77.4  U/ml  post-dose  2  in  the  group  that  received  Rotarix  at  8  and  12  weeks  in 
combination  with  other  EPI  vaccines.  The  MAH  clarified  the  reason  for  the  poor  outcome  of  this 
study and presented implications on the recommended dosing interval for Rotarix in countries where 
the EPI schedule is used. 
The immaturity of the immune system and the higher level of maternal antibodies in younger infants 
have  been  reported  previously  as  a  cause  of  poor  immune  response  following  vaccination  with  the 
HRV vaccine (Ruiz Palacios et al 2002). In other studies (Rota-004, Rota-008 and Rota-014), it was 
observed that higher levels of transplacentally transmitted maternal antibodies at younger age tend to 
decrease the level of immune response to HRV. These elements account for most of the difference in 
vaccine  response  observed  between  the  V-V-PL  (8-12  weeks)  group  and  the  V-PL-V  (8-16  weeks) 
group. 
However, the benefit of vaccinating at an older age should be balanced with the fact that natural RV 
infections  can  occur  at  an  early  age  as  shown  in  the  placebo  group  of  study  Rota-051,  where 
seroconversion rates in the placebo group were 7.8% at a mean age of 13.0 weeks (age at dose 2) and 
15.4% at a mean age of 17.3 weeks (age at dose 3). Besides the observed difference in seroconversion 
between  the  two  schedules  in  this  study  conducted  in  Vietnam,  the  overall  rate  of  seroconversion 
tends  to  be  lower  than  the  seroconversion  levels  generally  observed  in  developed  countries.  In 
addition, the co-administration of HRV with OPV has been shown to result in slightly, although not 
significantly,  decreased  seroconversion  rates.  These  events  have  been  observed  in  other  studies 
conducted in other developing countries 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP further noted that in the phase III trial 057, the number of subjects with available results 
was  comparably  low.  The  detailed  analysis  of  the  reasons  for  elimination  from  the  ATP 
immunogenicity  cohort  indicated  that  these  were  mainly  protocol  deviations  and  unavailable  or 
invalid  laboratory  results.  The  number  of  excluded  subjects  was  evenly  distributed  between  the 
“HRV_LIQ” and “HRV_LYO” groups, indicating that the results are not biased by a difference in the 
distribution of excluded subjects.  
Therefore, the conclusions of the study seem not to be affected by the relatively high rate of excluded 
subjects:  Rota-057  showed  no  statistical  differences  in  terms  of  immunogenicity  and  reactogenicity 
and  safety  between  lyophilised  and  liquid  formulations.  Similar  conclusions  can  be  drawn  from 
studies Rota-048 (N= 250) and Rota-061 (N= 1200), that also compared the two formulations, further 
confirming the results of Rota-057. The CHMP considered that in general, a drop-out rate above 20% 
raises  doubt  on  the  quality  of  the  results,  however  acknowledged  that  no  obvious  bias  could  be 
detected and no differences between both treatment groups could be detected. 
Concerning RV GE episodes, no difference between the lyophilised and the liquid formulation could 
be detected in all four studies. 
To evaluate effectiveness of the new formulation after approval, the MAH committed to co-operate 
with Public Health bodies to monitor effectiveness before and after switching from the approved to 
the new formulation as outlined in the Letter of Undertaking (see Annex VI to this report). The MAH 
committed to carry out an observational, prospective, sentinel hospital-based multicentre surveillance 
study  (case-control  design)  in  Belgium  to  monitor  actively  the  incidence  and  proportion  of 
hospitalisations for laboratory-confirmed cases of RV GE in children < 5 years of age.  
Given  the  high  rotavirus  vaccination  coverage  once  Rotarix  is  introduced  in  an  universal  mass 
vaccination setting such as in Belgium, the expected rapid uptake of Rotarix liquid formulation, once 
introduced, and the high expected clinical efficacy of rotavirus vaccines, the MAH stated that it will 
not  be  possible  to  effectively  and  rapidly  generate  vaccine  effectiveness  data  with  specific  point 
estimates (using the case control study design, the screening method or alternative designs) due to the 
lack off cases observed. For this reason the MAH proposed a staggered two-step approach with close 
monitoring of disease trends (sentinel surveillance), followed by an epidemiological investigation and 
effectiveness evaluation, in the event of increasing disease trends. 
Results of the study in Belgium are expected to be relevant for other European countries considering 
the  introduction  of  Rotarix,  liquid  and/or  lyophilised  formulations,  within  their  routine  childhood 
immunisation schedule. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The  MAH  presented  safety  and  reactogenicity  data  collected  from  1933  infants  who  had  received 
Rotarix liquid formulation through 4 clinical studies (Rota-048, 051, 057 and 061). 
•  Study  Rota-048,  conducted  in  Finland,  was  a  phase  II,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo 
controlled  study  to  compare  the  immunogenicity,  reactogenicity  and  safety  of  the  liquid 
formulation of the HRV vaccine to the lyophilised formulation of the HRV vaccine  given as a 
two-dose  primary  vaccination  in  healthy  infants  at  the  age  of  2  and  3  months.  A  total  of  250 
infants aged 6 to 12 weeks were enrolled to receive two doses of HRV vaccine, either liquid or 
lyophilised  formulation,  or  the  respective  placebo  formulation.  Of  these,  240  infants  were 
included  in  the  Cohort  for  safety.    Routine  childhood  vaccines,  i.e.  Bacille  Calmette-Guérin 
vaccine  (BCG),  diphtheria  and  tetanus  with  acellular  pertussis  vaccine  (DTPa),  Haemophilus 
influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine, hepatitis B vaccine (HBV) and inactivated polio vaccine (IPV), 
were  administered  at  least  14  days  apart  from  each  dose  of  HRV  vaccine  or  placebo.  The 
reactogenicity and safety of the HRV vaccines were assessed as secondary objective. 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Study Rota-051, conducted in Vietnam, evaluated the immunogenicity and reactogenicity/safety 
of the liquid formulation of the HRV vaccine when administered with the first and second routine 
EPI  immunisations  (DTPw,  HBV  and  OPV),  i.e.  at  6-10  weeks  of  age  and  one  month  later 
(schedule  0,  4  weeks);  or  when  administered  concomitantly  with  the  first  and  third  doses  of 
routine EPI vaccines, i.e. at 6-10 weeks of age and 2 months later (schedule 0, 8 weeks). A total 
of 375 infants aged 6 to 10 weeks were enrolled to receive two doses of the liquid formulation of 
the  HRV  vaccine  (+  1  dose  of  placebo)  or  three  doses  of  placebo.  Of  these,  352  infants  were 
included in the cohort for safety. The safety and reactogenicity of the liquid HRV vaccine versus 
placebo was assessed as secondary objective. 
•  Study Rota-057, conducted in Panama, compared the immunogenicity of the liquid formulation 
of  the  HRV  vaccine  to  the  lyophilised  formulation  of  the  HRV  vaccine,  when  administered 
concurrently with routine EPI vaccinations, including OPV. A total of 1274 healthy infants aged 6 
to  12  weeks  were  enrolled  to  receive  two  doses  of  HRV  vaccine,  either  liquid  or  lyophilised 
formulation, at the age of 2 and 4 months. Of these, 1109 infants were included in the cohort for 
safety. The reactogenicity and safety of the HRV vaccines were assessed as secondary objective. 
•  Study  Rota-061,  conducted  in  Finland,  evaluated  the  clinical  consistency  in  terms  of 
immunogenicity and reactogenicity of three production lots of the liquid formulation of the HRV 
vaccine and also evaluated the liquid formulation as compared to the lyophilised formulation of 
the HRV vaccine in terms of immunogenicity, reactogenicity and safety. A total of 1200 infants 
aged  10  to  17  weeks  were  enrolled  to  receive  two  doses  of  HRV  vaccine  according  to  a  3,  4 
months  schedule,  administered  concomitantly  with  routine  childhood  vaccination  (DTPa-HBV-
IPV/Hib). Of these, 1115 infants were included in the cohort for safety. The lot-to-lot consistency 
in terms of reactogenicity of the liquid formulation of the HRV vaccine as well as the safety of 
both HRV vaccine formulations were assessed as secondary objectives. 
Adverse events 
Solicited symptoms 
Irritability  was  the  most  frequently  reported  solicited  symptom  in  studies  Rota-048,  Rota-057  and 
Rota-061, whereas fever was the most frequently reported solicited symptom in study Rota-051. The 
incidence of irritability considered as related to vaccination by the investigator was comparable across 
the different study groups (35.4%-47.7% in Rota-048, 23.1%-25.2% in Rota-057 and 64.0%-73.0% in 
Rota-061). For study Rota-051 conducted in Vietnam, a lower incidence of irritability was observed 
in  all  study  groups  (37.1%-39.4%)  when  compared  to  the  incidences  in  studies  Rota-048  (63.3%-
67.5%) and Rota-061 (65.5%-74.5%) conducted in Finland. In study Rota-057 conducted in Panama 
the irritability incidence was intermediate (50.2%-52.6%). Ethno-cultural differences may account for 
these variable incidences of irritability. 
Similarly, the incidence of fever considered as related to vaccination ranged from 20.1% to 22.2 % in 
Rota-051,  23.1% to 25.0% in Rota-057 and 22.2% to 24.3% in Rota-061, and also was comparable 
between  the  study  groups.  Since  no  concomitant  vaccines  were  administered  in  trial  Rota-048,  the 
lowest incidence of fever was observed in this trial (4.1%). As expected, higher incidence for fever 
was seen in subjects who had received DTP-based routine concomitant vaccine administrations (Rota-
051, Rota-057, Rota-061). 
Overall,  there  was  no  increase  in  incidence  of  solicited  symptoms  with  subsequent  doses  of  HRV 
vaccine (both formulations). 
Unsolicited symptoms 
One difference between the liquid and the lyophilised formulation was noted: Unsolicited symptoms 
of grade 3 intensity seem to have occurred more frequently in the liquid formulation group (6.3% vs. 
3%, p=0.036).  
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
No fatal outcomes were reported following vaccination with liquid or lyophilised HRV vaccine in the 
submitted clinical studies. 
In  total,  63  subjects  (3.26%)  reported  at  least  one  SAE  following  vaccination  with  liquid  HRV 
vaccine  and  45  subjects  (4.34%)  reported  at  least  one  SAE  following  vaccination  with  lyophilised 
HRV vaccine. 
In  total,  one  SAE  case,  reported  in  study  Rota-051,  was  assessed  as  at  least  possibly  related  to 
vaccination  by  the  investigator:  in  the  8,  12  weeks  group,  a  9-week-old  girl  reported  one  SAE 
(preferred term abdominal pain, Case ID B0437934A) one day after the dose 1 of liquid HRV vaccine 
and  was  hospitalised.  The  event  was  considered  to  be  causally  related  to  vaccination  by  the 
investigator. The subject recovered and the event resolved without sequelae. 
Data on SAEs from dose 1 of HRV vaccine up to the end of the extended safety follow-up from Rota-
061 was also provided.  
The extended safety follow-up phase included the period starting from the day after visit 3 (at month 
2) up to the contact at month 7 (i.e. up to six months after the last dose of the HRV vaccine).  
During the extended safety follow-up phase, a total of 18 subjects (3 subjects in the Liq_A group, 2 
subjects in the Liq_B group, 11 subjects in the Liq_C group and 2 subjects in the Lyo group) reported 
at  least  one  SAE.  Most  of  the  SAEs  reported  during  the  extended  safety  follow-up  phase  (n  =  13) 
were under the SOC ‘Infections and infestations’ and there were 3 SAEs reported under the SOC of 
‘Nervous system disorders’. All the SAEs had resolved. 
During the entire study period, a total of 36 subjects reported at least one SAE of whom 18 subjects 
reported SAEs during the extended safety follow-up phase. None of the SAEs were causally related to 
vaccination. No fatal events were reported during the study.  
Intussusception (IS) 
There were no reports of IS cases in the four studies with Rotarix liquid formulation, included in this 
submission. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Of  a  total  of  3099  subjects  enrolled  and  vaccinated,  135  subjects  failed  to  complete  the  trials.  The 
majority of subjects (97.0%) dropped out for reasons not associated with an adverse event. The most 
common  reasons  for  withdrawal  were:  lost  to  follow-up  (63/135;  46.7%),  consent  withdrawal  for 
reasons  other  than  an  adverse  event  (48/135;  35.6%);  and  migration  from  the  study  area  (19/135; 
14.1%). 
Four  subjects  were  withdrawn  from  the  study  after  vaccination  with  HRV  vaccine  due  to  SAE  (3 
subjects) or non-serious AE (one subject): 
• 
In study Rota-048, one subject (no. 522) dropped out from the study due to non-serious abnormal 
tonus  (hypertonus)  32  days  after  dose  1  of  the  lyophilised  HRV  vaccine.  The  investigator 
considered that this adverse event was not causally related to vaccination.  
In  study  Rota-051,  one  subject  (no.  465)  in  the  V-PL-V  group  experienced  pneumonia  27  days 
after dose 1 of the liquid HRV vaccine and was hospitalised. The parents/guardians of the subject 
withdrew their child at visit 2. This SAE was not considered to be causally related to vaccination. 
In study Rota-057, one subject (no. 1661) in the lyophilised HRV vaccine group was withdrawn 
from the study due to a SAE of pneumonia. This medical condition developed 69 days after dose 
2,  lasted  for  12  days  and  the  subject  recovered.  The  investigator  considered  that  there  was  no 
reasonable possibility that the pneumonia may have been caused by the HRV vaccine.  
In  study  Rota-061,  one  subject  (no.  426)  in  the  lyophilised HRV vaccine group was withdrawn 
from the study due to a SAE (Infantile spasms) with onset 2 days after dose 2. This SAE was not 
considered to be causally related to vaccination. 
• 
• 
• 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post marketing experience 
No  post-marketing  data  were  available  for  the  liquid  formulation  of  Rotarix  when  this  file  was 
submitted in October 2007[amc13]. 
Maladministration (injection[amc14])  
In the frame of the extension procedure it was considered relevant to provide background information 
on  cases  of  maladministration  reported  for  the  existing  formulation  of  Rotarix  as  described  below.  
The new pharmaceutical form is thought to reduce maladministrations due to easier handling. 
In the 4th periodic safety update report (PSUR, period covered: 12 January 2007 –11 July 2007) for 
Rotarix, since launch up a total of 120 cases of incorrect route of administration (e.g. injection) of the 
Rotarix lyophilised formulation have been reported to the MAH. Of these 120 cases, 27 cases were 
associated with non-serious adverse events and 3 were associated with serious adverse events. For the 
3 serious cases, the events resolved. 
A  large  increase  of  reports  was reported in Spain, where the vaccine is administered by nurses and 
frequently  by  non-paediatric  personnel.  The  MAH  has  agreed  to  implement  several  measures  to 
reinforce  the  information  about  the  correct  route  of  administration  of  Rotarix  since  an  increasing 
number  of  such  reports  was  noted  in  the  period  of  the  previous  PSUR.  In  the  first  place,  all 
paediatricians  in  countries  where  Rotarix  was  available  were  reminded  of  the  appropriate  route  of 
administration of Rotarix through an “information letter” and other means.  
The MAH has developed an action plan to increase the communication and education of the relevant 
personnel and to minimise the risk of incorrect route of administration in Spain. The action plan was 
submitted to the EMEA on March 11th 2008 and is being implemented in Spain as from March 2008.  
[A15]From  a  global  perspective,  the  number  of  maladministration  cases  per  100.000  doses 
administered  in  the  EU/EEA  has decreased from 18/100.000 before the 4th quarter of 2007, to less 
than 2/100.000 during the 4th quarter of 2007. 
Additional efforts were also made through changes to the label, pack and leaflet to further emphasise 
the  oral  administration  route  and  consequently  reduce  the  risks  of  maladministration  (variation  II-
005). Since these vaccines are currently being introduced into the markets, it is considered premature 
to evaluate the impact of this change by the reporting rates observed in the 5th PSUR (period covered 
12  July  2007  11  January  2008).  The  MAH  is  monitoring  for  any  reports  that  would  follow  one  of 
these newly labelled and packaged vaccines by controlling the lot numbers.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
The available data indicate that the safety of this new formulation is not different compared to that of 
the  already  registered  formulation.  The  CHMP  highlighted  that  1933  patients  is  not  a  very  large 
database.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  this  population  size  is  not  sufficient  to  detect  a  potential  increase  in 
intussusception  (IS)  associated  with  the  liquid  formulation.  However,  it  was  agreed  with  the  MAH 
that considering that the same viral strain at the same potency and the same vaccination schedule will 
be used for both formulations there is no reason to believe that the risk with respect to IS would differ 
between  the  two  formulations.  Thus,  the  MAH’s  proposal  to  follow  the  incidence  of  IS  via  Post 
Marketing Surveillance was considered adequate. 
Unsolicited  symptoms  of  grade  3  intensity  seem  to  have  occurred  more  frequently  in  subjects  that 
received the liquid formulation in the pooled data from the studies (6.3% vs. 3%, p=0.036). Because 
of  multiplicity  issues  these  data  should  however  be  considered  with  caution.  Concerning  solicited 
symptoms  no  clinically significant differences could be detected between the liquid and lyophilised 
formulation[amc16]. 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concerning  maladministration,  the  CHMP  considered  that  continued  attention  of  the  MAH  to  this 
issue  is  most  certainly  warranted[amc17].  The  CHMP  however  highlighted  that  the  number  of 
maladministration  cases  per  100.000  doses  administered  in  the  EU/EEA  has  decreased  from 
18/100.000  before  the  4th  quarter  of  2007,  to  less  than  2/100.000  during  the  4th  quarter  of  2007. 
[A18]No further steps are considered necessary for the time being. 
Based  on  the fact that this new formulation contains the same virus strain, identical strength and is 
administered according to the same vaccination schedule, it can be assumed that the safety profile will 
not be different to that of the oral suspension. 
PHARMACOVIGILANCE  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  MAH  has  provided  documents  that  set  out  a  detailed  description  of  the  system  of 
Pharmacovigilance.  A  statement,  indicating  that  the  MAH  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person 
responsible  for  Pharmacovigilance  and  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction occurring either in the Community or in a third country has been provided.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  MAH  fulfils  the 
requirements  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  MAH  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person 
responsible for  Pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of any adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted an updated risk management plan. 
The MAH has updated the risk management plan with data specific for the liquid and the lyophilised 
formulation (Version 004).  
Table 1: Summary of the EU Risk Management Plan for Rotarix 
Qualification  Proposed 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Actions 
Safety 
concerns 
Bronchitis 
IS 
Potential risk 
Potential risk 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Study Rota 036 
Active surveillance in 
EU: 
a/ Germany (ESPED) 
b/ UK (BPSU): on hold 
Observed versus 
expected analysis 
PASS study in Mexico 
None 
SPC:  
4.3. Contraindications:  
Previous history of intussusception. 
Subjects with uncorrected congenital 
malformation of the gastrointestinal tract that 
would predispose for intussusception. 
4.8. Undesirable Effects:  
The risk of intussusception has been evaluated 
in a large safety trial conducted in Latin 
America and Finland where 63225 subjects were 
enrolled. This trial gave evidence of no 
increased risk of intussusception in the Rotarix 
group when compared with the placebo group. 
Pneumonia 
deaths 
Vaccine 
effective-
ness 
Potential risk 
PASS study in Mexico  None  
Missing 
information 
Study in Belgium 
SPC: 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use: 
A protective immune response may not be 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualification  Proposed 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Actions 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
elicited in all vaccinees (see section 5.1). 
Missing 
information 
European Rotavirus 
Surveillance Network 
Safety 
concerns 
Monitoring 
the diversity 
of 
circulating 
RV strains 
in a post-
marketing 
setting  
Genetic 
stability of 
vaccine 
virus 
Vaccine 
virus 
transmission 
Use in 
preterm 
infants 
Use in 
immunocom
promised 
infants 
Missing 
information 
Missing 
information 
Study Genetic Stability 
of Vaccine Virus in 
Belgium  
None 
Study Rota 052  
Missing 
information 
Study Rota 054  
Missing 
information 
Study Rota 022 
SPC: 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use: 
Cases of transmission of this excreted vaccine 
virus to seronegative contacts of vaccinees have 
been observed without causing any clinical 
symptom. 
SPC: 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use: 
Limited data in 140 premature children indicate 
that Rotarix can be given to premature children, 
however a lower immune response may be 
observed and the level of clinical protection 
remains unknown. 
SPC: 
4.3.Contraindications: 
Infants who have known or suspected 
immunodeficiency. Asymptomatic HIV 
infection is not expected to affect the safety or 
efficacy of Rotarix. However, in the absence of 
sufficient data, administration of Rotarix to 
asymptomatic HIV subjects is not 
recommended. 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use: 
Rotarix should be administered with caution to 
individuals with immunodeficient close 
contacts, such as individuals with malignancies, 
or who are otherwise immunocompromised or 
individuals receiving immunosuppressive 
therapy. 
SPC: 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use: 
Rotarix should under no circumstances be 
injected. 
Newly labelled and packaged vaccines 
became available. 
Potential for 
medical 
errors 
Specific EU 
requirement 
Review in PSUR 
The reporting 
frequency of the cases 
of maladministration 
will be closely 
monitored by country 
to evaluate the impact 
of the changes to the 
label and packaging.  
Results of this activity 
will be summarised in 
futures PSURs. 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
OVERALL CONCLUSIONS, RISK/BENEFIT ASSESSMENT AND RECOMMENDATION 
Quality 
The  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The CHMP considered that no additional non-clinical studies were required, as the studies assessed 
for the granting of the Marketing Authorisation for Rotarix were considered sufficient. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Due to the nature and mechanism of action for vaccines evaluation of pharmacokinetic properties is in 
general not required for the Marketing Authorisation and was thus not requested by the CHMP. 
Efficacy 
The CHMP agreed that the submitted data provided sufficient evidence that the immunogenicity (in 
terms of IgA antibody seroconversion rates, GMC and vaccine take) of the new liquid formulation is 
similar to the already registered lyophilised formulation.  
Additionally, to evaluate effectiveness of the new formulation after approval, the MAH committed to 
co-operate  with  Public  Health  bodies  to  monitor  effectiveness  before  and  after  switching  from  the 
approved to the new formulation as outlined in the Letter of Undertaking. The CHMP considered that 
this measure would be appropriate to follow up the efficacy of the liquid formulation in the clinical 
setting. 
Safety 
From the safety data of the studies submitted in support of this line extension the CHMP concluded 
that Rotarix was found to be generally safe and well-tolerated in the target population, with a safety 
profile which is consistent with that of the marketed Rotarix lyophilised formulation. Therefore, the 
contraindications,  warnings  and  precautions  contained  in  the  PI  of  the  already  approved  Rotarix 
lyophilised formulation are applicable to the new formulation. 
The  CHMP  therefore concluded that the introduction of the liquid formulation did not significantly 
alter the safety profile of the combination product.   
From  the  safety  database  all  the  adverse  reactions  reported  in  clinical  trials  (lyophilised  and  liquid 
formulation)  and  post-marketing  (lyophilised  formulation)  have  been  included  in  the  Summary  of 
Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in the Risk Management Plan (RMP) adequately addressed these. 
User consultation 
The proposed Package Leaflet for Rotarix liquid formulation provides exactly the same information to 
the patient than the approved Package Leaflet for Rotarix lyophilised formulation except for section 6 
since the composition and containers are different.  
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During  the  approval  process  for  Rotarix,  user  consultation  was  undertaken  for  the  Package Leaflet. 
Therefore,  as  the  MAH  provided  justification  for  not  performing  a  user  testing  consultation,  the 
CHMP considered user testing not necessary to support this line extension.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the Product 
Information. 
The  submitted  data  provided  sufficient  justification  that  the  immunogenicity  (in  terms  of  IgA 
antibody  seroconversion  rates,  GMC  and  vaccine  take)  of  this  new  liquid  formulation  can  be 
considered similar to the already registered lyophilised formulation. 
The SPC is similar to the already registered lyophilised formulation. The section on the instructions 
for  administration  of  the  vaccine  has  been  considerably  improved in order to avoid injection of the 
oral suspension. The form of the tube no longer resembles a syringe.  
The  available  data  indicate  that  the  safety  of  this  new  formulation  is  not  different  than  that  of  the 
already  registered  formulation.  The  CHMP  noted  that  the  safety  database  is  limited  (1933  pts). 
However, based on the fact that this new formulation contains the same virus strain, identical strength 
and  is  administered  according  to  the  same  vaccination  schedule  as  the  lyophilised  formulation[A19], 
there is no reason to believe that its safety profile will be different. The fact that the immunogenicity 
[A20]is  similar  in  the  conducted  clinical  trials  is  also  an  indication  that  this  new  formulation  has  a 
similar effect in the body than the already registered one.  
Additionally, to evaluate effectiveness of the new formulation after approval, the MAH committed to 
co-operate  with  Public  Health  bodies  to  monitor  effectiveness  before  and  after  switching  from  the 
approved to the new formulation in a surveillance study as outlined in the Letter of Undertaking. 
Taken together, the efficacy and safety results from the clinical data submitted in support of this line 
extension  did  not  indicate  any  significant  difference  between  the  existing  pharmaceutical  form 
(powder  and  solvent  for  oral  suspension)  and  the  new  pharmaceutical  form  (oral  suspension).  The 
CHMP therefore considered that the benefit/risk [A21]of Rotarix oral suspension is favourable. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Rotarix  oral  suspension  in  the  indication  “active 
immunisation  of  infants  from  the  age  of  6  weeks  for  prevention  of  gastro-enteritis  due  to  rotavirus 
infection” was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Rotarix-H-639-X-10-AR 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
