12 March 2015 
EMA/170855/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Rotarix 
rotavirus vaccine, live 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000639 
P46  075 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This  post-licensure  safety  study  has  been  conducted  in  the  Philippines  to  evaluate  the  reactogenicity 
and safety of the HRV vaccine Rotarix. The design is an open multi-centre study conducted in infants 
who  received  Rotarix  in  the  course  of  clinical  practice.  Two  oral  doses  of  HRV  vaccine  were 
administered. 
Study results show safety profile that is in line with the safety events observed in other studies. 
This paediatric study does not influence the benefit risk for Rotarix.  
No SmPC and PL changes are proposed. 
1. 
RECOMMENDATION1 
No further action is required. 
2. 
INTRODUCTION 
On 7 September 2012, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Rotarix, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended, on medicinal products for paediatric use. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The MAH stated that the submitted paediatric study does not influence the benefit risk for Rotarix and 
that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
3. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study(ies) 
Human  rotavirus  RIX4414  strain  (live  attenuated).  One  dose  of  GSK  Biologicals’  lyophilised  HRV 
vaccine  contained  at  least  106.0  median  Cell  Culture  Infective  Dose  (CCID50)  of  RIX4414  Live 
Attenuated  HRV  strain  lyophilised  with  active  substance:  9  mg  of  sucrose,  18  mg  of  dextran,  13.5 
milligrams (mg) of sorbitol, 9 mg of amino acids, 3.7 mg of Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) 
reconstituted with liquid diluent containing 80 mg of calcium carbonate, 0.25% of xanthan and 1.3 mL 
in  water  for  injection.  As  this  was  a  PMS  study,  commercial  lots  of  the  vaccine  that  were  purchased 
locally by the subject’s parent(s)/guardian(s) were used. 
Clinical aspects 
1. Introduction 
The  MAH  submitted  a  final  report(s)  for  the  study  ROTA-043  “An  open,  multicentric,  post-marketing 
surveillance study to evaluate the safety and reactogenicity of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals’ live 
attenuated  oral  Human  Rotavirus  (HRV)  vaccine,  Rotarix  when  administered  according  to  the 
Prescribing  Information,  in  subjects  in  the  Philippines  aged  at  least  6  weeks  at  the  time  of  first 
vaccination.” 
2. Clinical study 
Study  103366  (ROTA-043)  “An  open,  multicentric,  post-marketing  surveillance  study  to  evaluate  the 
safety  and  reactogenicity  of  GlaxoSmithKline  (GSK)  Biologicals’  live  attenuated  oral  Human  Rotavirus 
(HRV) vaccine, Rotarix when administered according to the Prescribing Information, in subjects in the 
Philippines aged at least 6 weeks at the time of first vaccination.” 
1 The recommendation from section V can be copied in this section 
Rotarix 
P46 075 
Page 2/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                 
  Description 
  Methods 
•  Objective(s) 
Primary: 
To assess the safety and reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ rotavirus (RV) vaccine, Rotarix. 
•  Study design 
A self contained, single-group (HRV group) PMS study. The participating physicians enrolled only those 
subjects for whom they would have prescribed Rotarix™ vaccine in the course of 
their normal clinical practice. All subjects were to receive two doses of Rotarix
receive  all  routine  vaccinations.  There  were  3  visits  planned  in  this  study  (Visit  1  and  Visit  2  for 
vaccination  and  Visit  3  for  follow-up).  Data  collection  was  done  using  standardised  hard  copy  Case 
Report Forms (CRFs). 
  a n d   w e r e  
•  Study population /Sample size 
A total of 3000 subjects aged at least 6 weeks at the time of Dose 1 were planned to be enrolled over 
a period of 3 years, but the enrolment was stopped following the notification received from Bureau of 
Food  and  Drugs  Directive  (BFAD),  Philippines  in  February  2010.  As  per  the  notification,  BFAD  had 
approved the listing of the safety data and confirmed that 1494 subjects enrolled as of February 2010 
was sufficient for the study. 
I. 
• 
Treatments 
Vaccination schedule /site: Subjects were to receive two oral doses of Rotarix. The first dose was to 
be  administered  from  the  age  of  6  weeks.  There  should  have  been  an  interval  of  at  least  4  weeks 
between doses. The vaccination course should have been completed by the age of 24 weeks. 
Vaccine  composition  /dose  /lot  number:  One  dose  of  GSK  Biologicals’  lyophilised  HRV  vaccine 
contained at least 106.0 median Cell Culture Infective Dose (CCID50) of RIX4414 Live Attenuated HRV 
strain lyophilised with active substance: 9 mg of sucrose, 18 mg of dextran,  13.5 milligrams (mg) of 
sorbitol, 9 mg of amino acids, 3.7 mg of Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) reconstituted with 
liquid  diluent  containing  80  mg  of  calcium  carbonate,  0.25%  of  xanthan  and  1.3  mL  in  water  for 
injection. As this was a PMS study, commercial lots of the vaccine that were purchased locally by the 
subject’s parent(s)/guardian(s) were used. Hence, lot numbers for the vaccine are not presented in the 
report. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
II. 
Recording of solicited adverse events (AEs) (fever,  fussiness/irritability, loss of appetite, cough/runny 
nose, diarrhoea and  vomiting) during the 15-day  (Day 0-Day 14) follow-up period after each dose of 
vaccination. Recording of unsolicited AEs occurring during the 31-day (Day 0-Day 30) follow-up period 
after each dose of vaccination. Recording of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) occurring during the entire 
study period. 
Primary Endpoint: 
•  Occurrence  of  grade  “2”  or  grade  “3”  fever,  vomiting  or diarrhoea  during  the 15-day  (Day  0-
Day 14) follow-up period after each vaccine dose. 
Secondary Endpoints: 
•  Occurrence of solicited symptoms during the 15-day (Day 0-Day 14) solicited follow-up period 
after each vaccine dose. 
•  Occurrence of unsolicited symptoms during the 31-day (Day 0-Day 30) follow-up period after 
each  vaccine  dose,  according  to  Medical  Dictionary  for  Regulatory  Activities  (MedDRA) 
classification. 
•  Occurrence of SAEs throughout the study period. 
•  Statistical Methods 
Rotarix 
P46 075 
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Analysis of demography: 
Demographic characteristics (age, gender, and race) of the study cohort were tabulated. The mean age 
(plus range and standard deviation) of the enrolled subjects, as a whole, was calculated at each visit. 
The  distribution  of  subjects  enrolled  among  the  study  sites  was  tabulated.  The  mean  height,  weight 
and body mass index (BMI) at Visit 1, of the enrolled subjects were also tabulated. 
Analysis of reactogenicity and safety: 
Analysis was performed only on the Total Vaccinated Cohort (TVC). 
The  overall  incidence,  with  exact  95%  confidence  interval  (CI),  of  any  AEs  (solicited  or  unsolicited) 
during the solicited follow-up period was tabulated for each dose, for overall doses and per subject. 
The  incidence,  with  exact  95%  CI,  of  each  individual  solicited  symptom  over  the  solicited  follow-up 
period, after each dose, for all doses and per subject was calculated. The same calculations were done 
for each individual solicited symptom rated as grade “2” and grade “3” and for each individual solicited 
symptom related to the vaccination. The percentage of subjects with at least one report of unsolicited 
AE  classified  by  the  World  Health  Organisation  Preferred  Terms  (PT)  or  by  the  MedDRA,  whenever 
available,  and  reported  up  to  30  days  after  vaccination  was  tabulated  with  exact  95%  CI.  The  same 
tabulation  was  performed  for  grade  “3”  unsolicited  AEs  and  for  unsolicited  AEs  with  a  relationship  to 
the vaccination. SAEs and withdrawal due to AEs were described in detail. The percentage (with exact 
95%  CI)  of  subjects  who  received  concomitant  medication  during  the  solicited  follow-up  period  after 
each dose, for all doses and per subject, was tabulated. Similar tabulation was done for subjects who 
received  concomitant  medication  during  the  entire  study  period.  The  proportion  of  AEs  resulting  in  a 
medically attended visit was tabulated. 
  Results 
•  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
1494 subjects were enrolled as of February 2010. Due to a natural calamity (typhoon), 55 out of 1494 
CRFs  were  destroyed  and  no  data  was  available  for  these  subjects  except  for  1  subject  (subject 
number  1239)  for  whom  only  the  SAE  forms  (copies  of  original)  were  available.  Therefore,  these 
subjects were not included in the total enrolled.  
The  analysis  was  based  on  1439  subjects  whose  data  was  available.  Only  the  SAE’s  reported  for  one 
subject  (subject  number  1239)  are  included  in  the  total  SAEs  reported  in  the  study.  Therefore,  the 
total  enrolled  subjects  were  1440  and  TVC  consisted  of  1439  subjects  with  at  least  one  documented 
dose of Rotarix™ in this study. 
•  Baseline data 
Demography: 
The mean age of the subjects in the TVC at Dose 1 was 11.2 weeks (range: 4 weeks to 38 weeks) and 
the mean age of the subjects at Dose 2 was 19.2 weeks (range: 10 weeks to 34 weeks). The subjects 
were predominantly of “East/South East Asian” origin (97.6%); 51.9% of the subjects were male and 
48.1 % of the subjects were female. 
• 
Efficacy results 
Non applicable. 
•  Safety results 
Overall: 
•  At least one symptom (solicited or unsolicited) was reported for 57.4% of the subjects during 
the  15-day  (Day  0-Day  14)  follow-up  period.  There  was  no  increase  in  the  incidence  of  AEs 
(solicited or unsolicited) from Dose 1 to Dose 2 of Rotarix™. 
•  Grade “3” symptoms (solicited or unsolicited) were reported for 8.1% of the subjects and those 
assessed as causally related to vaccination were reported for 13.7% of the subjects. 
Primary endpoint: 
• 
The percentage of subjects reporting grade “2” or grade “3” solicited AEs (fever, vomiting, and 
diarrhoea) during the 15-day (Day 0-Day 14) follow-up period was 14.7%. 
Rotarix 
P46 075 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints: 
Solicited general Adverse Events: 
• 
• 
• 
The most frequently reported solicited AE after each dose was irritability; reported for 32.2% 
and 23.5% of subjects following Dose 1 and Dose 2, respectively. 
The  most  frequently  reported  Grade  3  solicited  AE  was  vomiting  (3.1%)  after  Dose  1  and 
irritability (1.8%) after Dose 2 of HRV vaccine. 
The  most  frequently  reported  solicited  AE  with  causal  relationship  to  vaccination  after  each 
dose was irritability (6.9%) after Dose 1 and (5.4%) after Dose 2 of HRV vaccine. 
Unsolicited Adverse Events: 
• 
The percentage of subjects reporting at least one unsolicited AE classified by MedDRA system 
organ class (SOC) and PT during the 31-day (Day 0-Day 30) follow-up period was 24.5%. 
•  Grade  “3”  unsolicited  AEs  were  reported  for  four  subjects  during  the  31-day  (Day  0-Day  30) 
follow-up period. 
•  Unsolicited AEs with causal relationship to vaccination were reported for 13 subjects during the 
31-day (Day 0-Day 30) follow-up period. 
Serious adverse events: 
• 
There were no fatal events reported in this study. There were 41 SAEs reported by 33 subjects 
of which 6 SAEs reported for 4 subjects were assessed by the investigator as causally related 
to the vaccination. 
•  All the SAEs reported were resolved and the subjects recovered from these event(s), except for 
the 2 SAEs reported for subject number 1239 who was lost to follow-up and the status of SAEs 
could not be verified. 
Two SAEs (acute gastroenteritis and urinary tract infection) were reported for Subject number 
1239  in  the  safety  database  but  the  CRF  and  Original  SAE  forms  were  destroyed  during 
typhoon.  These  SAEs  have  been  included  in  the  above  mentioned  41  SAEs  reported  by  33 
subjects.  
• 
Withdrawals due to adverse events /serious adverse events: 
•  Seven subjects were withdrawn from the study due to unsolicited AEs or SAEs. Seven of these 
unsolicited  AEs  or  SAEs  (constipation,  hypersomnia,  hypophagia,  urinary  tract  infection, 
intussusception,  bloody  stools  and  generalised  rashes)  experienced  by  five  subjects  were 
considered by the investigator to be causally related to the vaccination. 
3. Discussion on clinical aspects 
This study was conducted to collect the additional safety data on GSK Biologicals’ Rotarix vaccine in the 
local target population, as per the requirements of BFAD, in the Philippines. 
Among  solicited  AE  with  causal  relationship  to  vaccination  in  the  15-day  follow-up  period,  irritability 
was  the  most  frequently  reported  in  this  study,  in  6.9%  and  5.4%  of  subjects  following  dose  1  and 
dose 2, respectively. In the integrated safety analysis of seven clinical trials, which included 3,286 HRV 
Rotarix 
P46 075 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
vaccine  recipients,  the  MAH  observed  that  fussiness/irritability  was  the  most  frequently  reported 
solicited general symptom during the 8-day post-vaccination period after each dose [Cheuvart, 2009].  
In this study, at least one unsolicited AE was reported for 24.5% subjects within the 31-day follow-up 
period after each vaccination. The integrated safety summary of unsolicited AEs included 5082 infants 
in the HRV vaccine group from seven studies and at least one unsolicited AE of any intensity occurring 
within  the  31-day  post-vaccination  period  after  each  dose  was  reported  for  53.31%  of  infants 
[Cheuvart, 2009].  
During  the  entire  study  period,  SAES  were  reported  for  2.2%  subjects  and  6  over the  33  SAEs  were 
assessed by the investigators as causally related to the vaccination and 0.5% subjects withdrew from 
the  study  due  to  unsolicited  AEs.  The  integrated  safety  summary  of  SAEs  included  36,755  infants  in 
the  HRV  vaccine  group  from  eight  studies  and  at  least  one  SAE  was  reported  by  2,219  (6.04%)  of 
subjects. The number and percentage of infants discontinuing the study because of non-serious AEs or 
SAEs was 159 subjects (0.43%) [Cheuvart, 2009].  
There  were  no  fatal  events  reported  in  this  study.  Overall,  GSK  Biologicals’  HRV  vaccine  is  well 
tolerated  in  Filipino  infants  when  administered  following  prescribing  information.  No  safety  concerns 
were raised based on the available data. 
4. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
The safety reports from this study are in line with those reported in the integrated safety database of 
the MAH. No fatal events  reported in this study.  Out of the 1439 subjects, one intussusception case 
was reported among the 1439 subjects, as well as one case of hematochezia. 
In this study, a  number of 3000 subjects were planned to be enrolled over a  period of 3  years. As a 
part  of  the  centres  were  destroyed  in  a  typhoon  and  a  number  of  others  were  unable  to  recruit 
subjects,  only  1494  subjects  were  enrolled  after  more  than  three  years.  Recruitment  was  stopped 
when the Drugs Agency of the Philippines considered that this sample was sufficient for the study. 
Overall, Rotarix is well tolerated in Filipino infants.  No new safety concerns were raised based on the 
available data. 
  Recommendation  
No further action required. 
REQUEST FOR SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 
5. 
None. 
Rotarix 
P46 075 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
