12 March 2015 
EMA/169446/2015 rev. 1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Rotarix 
rotavirus vaccine, live 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000639 
P46  076.1 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
I. RECOMMENDATION 
This assessment report presents the final analysis of the efficacy and safety data collected during the 
entire study period of study Rota-075 that was conducted in Nanning City, Guangxi Province, China. 
According to the Company, the efficacy against severe rotavirus gastroenteritis in study Rota-075 was 
lower  than  the  one  observed  in  the  EU  and  developed  Asian  countries,  but  was  in  the  range  of  what 
has been observed in clinical trials conducted in Latin America and Africa, which are already presented 
in  the  current  Product  Information.  The  data  submitted  do  not  influence  the  benefit-risk  balance  and 
no regulatory action to be taken.  
On the 19 Dec 2013 the CHMP adopted the following conclusions: 
According to the Company, the efficacy against severe rotavirus gastroenteritis in study Rota-075 was 
lower  than  the  one  observed  in  the  EU  and  developed  Asian  countries,  but  was  in  the  range  of  what 
has been observed in clinical trials conducted in Latin America and Africa, which are already presented 
in the current Product Information. Consequently, no change to the SmPC is needed. 
The  CHMP  endorses  the  Company’s  conclusion  regarding  the  study  outcome  and  agrees  that  there  is 
no need for updating the product information as these data are not directly relevant to EU prescribers. 
The CHMP however noted that the current efficacy information from the Asian continent is very sparse 
and the new data contribute to a better knowledge of the clinical protection that can be expected. 
II. BACKGROUND 
According to Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
of 12 December 2006, the Company submitted to the EMA the clinical study report for paediatric study 
Rota-075 (EudraCT number 2012-005200-18).  
The Company  states that, in accordance with Article 16(2) of Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004, the data 
submitted do not influence the benefit-risk balance for the above mentioned product and therefore do 
not  require  taking  further  regulatory  action  on  the  marketing  authorisation  for  Rotarix.  There  is  no 
need for updating the SmPC. 
This  study  was  conducted  to  support  the  licensure  of  GSK  Biologicals'  oral  live  attenuated  liquid  HRV 
vaccine in China and is the first formal efficacy study ever conducted with the liquid formulation. The 
study has not been conducted in accordance with an agreed paediatric investigation plan. 
The Company submits now the responses to the RSI. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 2/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.  ANALYSIS  OF  THE  COMPANY’S  RESPONSES  TO  THE  REQUEST  OF 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION  
Clinical  
Question No. 01 - Clinical 
The much less favourable clinical protection rate against severe RV GE (with  no overlapping 95% CI) 
due to circulating wild-type RV in China, especially in comparison with developed Asian countries where 
the lyophilised formulation was used (72%; 95% CI: 54.1; 83.6) versus 96.1% (95% CI: 85.1; 99.5) 
(see  table  Sustained  efficacy  up  to  3  years  of  age  in  Asia  in  section  5.1  of  the  current  SmPC)  is 
striking.  Since  ethnicity,  study  design  or  social  status  can  unlikely  explain  the  differences  in  efficacy, 
the  liquid  formulation  itself  may  be  the  cause  of  the  less  favourable  response  in  China.  The  clinical 
protection between the two vaccine formulations was never evaluated in a head to head comparison. 
Furthermore,  the  comparable  immune  responses  between  the  two  formulations  (demonstrated 
previously in other studies) do not predict clinical protection since there is no immunological correlate 
of protection. The MAH should discuss this major issue.  
Company’s Response (summary) 
The  Company  acknowledges  the  less  favourable  clinical  protection  rate  against  severe  Rotavirus 
Gastroenteritis (RVGE) due to circulating wild-type RV in China compared to developed Asian countries 
and  is  of  the  opinion  that this  difference  is  caused  by  the  difference  in  socio-economic  level  between 
the two study settings. The Chinese efficacy data are aligned with previous efficacy data obtained with 
Rotarix in countries of the same socio-economic level. This statement is supported by: 
• 
• 
the  fact  that  the  vaccine  efficacy  (VE)  and  the  anti-RV  antibody  seroconversion  rate  in  study 
Rota-075 are in line with the data obtained in settings of similar socioeconomic level, 
analyses of various Rotarix efficacy studies suggesting that anti-RV antibody seropositivity can 
serve as a relative correlate of efficacy against any and severe RGVE in vaccinated children. 
1. VACCINE EFFICACY AND IMMUNE RESPONSE 
1.1. Socio-economic level of the study settings 
Study  Rota-075  was  conducted  in  Nanning  City,  in  the  Guangxi  province  in  China  and  this  rural 
province is known to be of low socio-economic status. The prevalence of stunting and underweight in 
children  under  5  years  of  age  was  >  40%  and  >  30%,respectively,  in  1992  [FAO,  1999].  The  socio-
economic  level  of  the  region  has  increased  since  then,  but  did  not  yet  reach  the  level  of  developed 
Asian countries. Recent information on Gross Domestic Product (GDP, 2009-2012) and infant mortality 
rate  (estimates  for  2013)  are  provided  in  Table  1.  As  far  as  the  Company  knows,  provincial  data  on 
infant mortality rate are not available and therefore national data are provided for this parameter. 
Study  Rota-028,  -029,  -030  was  conducted  in  an  urban  setting  in  high-income  countries  in  Asia 
(Singapore, Taiwan and Hong Kong) [Phua, 2009].  
Table  1  shows  that  the  GDP  per  capita  for  Singapore,  Hong  Kong  and  Taiwan  is  more  than  15-fold 
higher than for the Guangxi province in China and  more than 4-fold higher than the country data for 
China.  The  infant  mortality  rate  is  at  least  3-fold  higher  in  China  (country  data)  than  in  Singapore, 
Hong  Kong  and  Taiwan.  These  data  indicate  a  clear  difference  in  socio-economic  level  between  the 
setting of study Rota-075 and the setting of study Rota-028, -029, -030 in recent years. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 3/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RV  vaccines  are  known  to  have  an  excellent  efficacy  against  disease  in  developed  countries  and  to 
have a reduced efficacy in countries of lower socio-economic status [Madhi, 2010; Zaman, 2010] and 
this  fact  contributed  to  the  difference  in  VE  in  study  Rota-075  compared  to  study  Rota-028,  -029,  -
030. 
1.2. Immunogenicity data 
The immunogenicity data of study Rota-075 became available recently (cf. Module 5). A comparison of 
the immunogenicity data of study Rota-028, -029, -030 and study Rota-075 is provided in Table 2. 
Study Rota-075 consisted of two immunogenicity sub-cohorts. Sub-cohort 1 assessed immunogenicity 
of  the  liquid  Rotarix  vaccine  (612  subjects  in  Total  Vaccinated  Cohort  [TVC]),  while  sub-cohort  2 
assessed the immunogenicity of the liquid Rotarix vaccine and co-administered vaccines (306 subjects 
in  TVC).  All  subjects  received  routine  childhood  vaccinations  according  to  the  Expanded  Program  of 
Immunisation  (EPI)  recommendations  in  China  and  subjects  in  the  immunogenicity  sub-cohort  2 
received Diphtheria, Tetanus and acellular Pertussis (DTPa) vaccine and Oral Polio Virus (OPV) vaccine 
concomitantly  with  the  liquid  human  rotavirus  vaccine  (HRV)  vaccine/placebo  dose.  Because 
concomitant administration of OPV may slightly reduce the immune response to RV vaccines and  IPV 
rather  than  OPV  was  administered  in  study  Rota-028,  -029,  -030,  the  comparison  of  the 
immunogenicity data of both studies is based on the immunogenicity sub-cohort 1 of study Rota-075. 
Table  2  presents  the  anti-RV  IgA  seroconversion  rate  (defined  as  the  appearance  of  anti-  RV  IgA 
antibodies, i.e. concentration greater than or equal to the cut-off value, in the serum of subjects who 
were  seronegative  before  vaccination),  anti-RV  IgA  Geometric  Mean  Concentration  (GMC)  in 
seropositive subjects and VE against severe RVGE for studies Rota-075 (China) and Rota-028, -029, -
030 (Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong). 
The anti-RV IgA seroconversion rate after 2 doses was 74.7% in China, while a higher value of 93.9% 
was  reached  after  2  doses  in  Singapore,  Taiwan  and  Hong  Kong.  This  difference  in  immunogenicity 
between the 2 settings is in line with the difference in efficacy against severe RVGE and suggests that 
the  lower  VE  in  China  (72.0%)  as  compared  to  Singapore,  Taiwan  and  Hong  Kong  (96.1%)  may  be 
caused by the lower immune response. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 4/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Company  performed  a  further  assessment  of  the  seroconversion  rate  after  2  doses  of  Rotarix 
vaccine  in  Phase  II  and  Phase  III  studies  in  countries  and  regions  of  different  socio-economic  level 
(Figure  1).  Because  the  immunogenicity  data  of  the  different  studies  were  considered  irrespective  of 
the  OPV  co-administration  status,  Figure  1  includes  the  results  of  the  pooled  immunogenicity  groups 
for  study  Rota-075.  Figure  1  shows  a  trend  for  an  increasing  seroconversion  rate  with  increasing 
socioeconomic  level  of  the  country  and/or  region.  From  all  studies  conducted,  the  lowest 
seroconversion rate was observed in Malawi, i.e. the country with the lowest socio-economic level. 
Assessor’s comment 
The Company’s analysis of the association between seroconversion rate and socioeconomic level 
should be regarded with caution since the information in Figure 1 is somewhat misleading. Hence, 
it  is  inappropriate  to  represent  the  seroconversion  rates  (>90%)  from  studies  R-028,  29,  30 
(Taiwan,  Hong  Kong,  Singapore)  as  representative  for  “Asia”.  Hence,  seroconversion  rates  from 
studies  in  Japan,  Vietnam,  China,  the  Philippines,  India  and  Bangladesh  in  Figure  1  are  all  well 
below  90%.  It  is  also  misleading  to  consider  study  results  from  Malawi  and  South  Africa  as 
representing  Africa.  Nevertheless,  it  is  reasonable  to  accept  an  association  between  the  rate  of 
seroconversion and socioeconomic status. The 75% seroconversion rate in Nanning City, Guangxi 
province,  China,  is  in  line  with  the  rates  observed  in  Bangladesh,  India,  the  Philippines  and 
Vietnam, the liquid formulation being used in the latter two countries during the phase II studies 
before  registration.  There  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  the  liquid  formulation  is  the  cause  of  the 
lower response. Issue resolved. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 5/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Seroconversion rate with 95% Confidence Interval after administration of 2 doses of Rotarix in Phase II and 
Phase III clinical studies in countries/regions of different socio-economic level 
For study Rota-033, the pooled data from 3 groups receiving 3 different lots of Rotarix are presented (HRV Pool) 
For study Rota-037, only data for the group receiving 2 doses of Rotarix are presented. 
For study Rota-051, the seroconversion rate after the second dose of Rotarix is presented. 
For study Rota-063, the seroconversion rate after the second dose of Rotarix is presented. 
For study Rota-024, seropositivity rate is presented instead of seroconversion rate because no pre-vaccination blood sample was taken in this study. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 6/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HRV = Human Rotavirus Vaccine 
Lyo = lyophilised formulation; Liq = liquid formulation; 2_D = 2 doses; OPV = Oral Polio Vaccine 
V = vaccine, PL = placebo; R = Rota 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 7/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3. Efficacy data 
The Company performed a further assessment of the VE against severe RVGE (Vesikari score ≥ 11) of 
2 doses of Rotarix vaccine in Phase II and Phase III studies. Table 3 presents the studies of Figure 1 
for which data on VE are available. The table contains data on the 2 dose group and the pooled group 
(2  doses  and  3  doses)  of  study  Rota-037  because  the  study  was  powered  for  the  analyses  on  the 
pooled  group.  Table  3  shows  that  the  VE  against  severe  RVGE  is  highest  in  the  countries  or  regions 
with the highest socio-economic level. 
The VE against severe RVGE during the first efficacy period was within the same range in studies Rota-
023,  024  (Latin  America),  Rota-037  (South  Africa,  Malawi)  and  Rota-075  (China).  VE  against  severe 
RVGE during the first efficacy period was higher in Europe (95.8%) and the 95% CI was very wide for 
Japan  (-26.8;  99.7).  Data  for  the  second  and  combined  efficacy  period  were  also  within  the  same 
range in studies Rota-023 (Latin America) and Rota-075 (China). The data were lower in study Rota-
037 (South Africa, Malawi), i.e. the setting with the lowest socio-economic level and highest in studies 
Rota-056 (Japan) and -036 (Europe), i.e. the settings with the highest socio-economic level. 
1.4. Conclusion 
The VE in study Rota-075 is in line with data obtained with the lyophilised formulation in settings of the 
same socio-economic level. In addition, the anti-RV antibody seroconversion rate of study Rota-075 is 
aligned  with  data  obtained  with  the  lyophilised  and  liquid  formulation  in  settings  of  the  same  socio-
economic level. 
Assessor’s comment 
Table 3 below shows that the VE in study Rota-075 (China) is in line with settings having a low 
socio-economic  status.  In  Japan,  the  incidence  of  severe  rotavirus  gastroenteritis  leading  to 
hospitalisation  was  too  low  for  demonstrating  the  vaccine  efficacy  (VE:  87.4%;  95%  IC:  -26.8; 
99.7).  The  Company’s  statement  that  the  VE  was  highest  in  Japan  is  not  endorsed.  Issue 
resolved. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 8/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 Vaccine efficacy against severe rotavirus gastroenteritis (Vesikari score greater than or equal to 11) of 2 doses of 
Rotarix in Phase II and Phase III clinical studies 
For Study Rota-037, the data of the pooled group analysis (2 doses and 3 doses of Rotarix) is presented in addition to the data of the 2 dose group because 
the study was powered for the analysis on the pooled groups. NA = Not available as the study only had a one year follow-up period. N= number of subjects 
included in each group 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 9/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n= number of subjects reporting at least one event in each group 
LL, UL = 95 % Lower and Upper confidence limits; VE (%) = Vaccine Efficacy (Conditional Method) 
^Two sided Exact P-value conditional to number of cases; *Two-sided Fisher’s exact test 
† severe rotavirus gastroenteritis leading to medical intervention 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 10/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. IMMUNOLOGICAL CORRELATE OF EFFICACY 
Although the clinical protection between the two vaccine formulations was never evaluated in a head to 
head  comparison,  the  Company  previously  showed  non-inferiority  of  the  liquid  formulation  compared 
to the lyophilised formulation in terms of anti-RV IgA seroconversion rates after the second dose (CSR 
for  study  Rota-061  [107876]  dated  01  August  2007  submitted  to  EMA  as  part  of  the  line  extension 
application  dossier  for  the  Rotarix  liquid  formulation  [EMEA/H/C/639/X/010]).  The  Company 
acknowledges  that  there  currently  is  no  established  correlate  of  protection  for  RV  vaccines,  but  is  of 
the opinion that immunogenicity is a good correlate of efficacy based on the following two analyses. 
Two  analyses  were  performed  with  the  aim  to  investigate  the  predictive  value  of  seropositive  post 
vaccination serum RV IgA antibody concentrations (antibody concentration ≥ 20 U/mL) on VE against 
RV disease: 
• 
• 
applying the Prentice criteria [Prentice, 1989] for surrogate endpoints to anti-RV IgA antibody 
concentrations ≥ 20 U/mL one month post-vaccination in a large Phase III efficacy trial (Rota-
037) 
a meta-analysis involving 8 Rotarix efficacy studies to measure the correlation between clinical 
VE  and  VE  predicted  from  immunogenicity  (VEI),  i.e.  1  minus  the  relative  risk  (RR)  of 
seronegativity rate. 
2.1. Analysis based on study Rota-037 
Rota-037  (102248) is  a  phase  III,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  multicentre  study  to 
assess  the  efficacy,  safety  and  immunogenicity  of  two  or  three  doses  of  GlaxoSmithKline  (GSK) 
Biologicals’ oral live attenuated HRV vaccine.  
Methodology 
The  Prentice  criteria  [Prentice  RL,  Statistics  in  Medicine  1989;  8:  431-440]  were  used  in  study  Rota-
037 to determine whether anti-RV IgA antibody seropositivity one month post-vaccination can serve as 
a surrogate (i.e. predictor) of the occurrence of RVGE. 
The analysis was done on the According to Protocol (ATP) cohort for efficacy. Only the follow-up period 
from  the  post-vaccination  blood  sample  timepoint  onwards  is  considered  for  the  analysis  and  only 
subjects with post-vaccination immunogenicity results (N = 4100) are included. Of these subjects, 285 
subjects  reported  RVGE  in  the  time  period  after  the  post-vaccination  blood  sample.  This  analysis 
assumes that efficacy is similar across different RV serotypes. 
The 4 Prentice criteria to establish a surrogate endpoint are: 
1.  The  vaccine  group  effect  must  be  significantly  associated  with  the  occurrence  of  RVGE.  This 
objective was achieved in study Rota-037 and is presented below under model (1). Please refer to CSR 
for study 102248 (Rota-037) dated 26 March 2009. 
2.  The  vaccine  group  effect  must  be  significantly  associated  with  the  surrogate  i.e.  anti-RV  IgA 
antibody seropositivity one month post-vaccination. This was achieved in study Rota-037.  
3. The surrogate effect must be significantly associated with the occurrence of RVGE. This is presented 
below under model (2). 
4.  The  surrogate  effect  on  the  occurrence  of  RVGE  must  capture  the  vaccine  group  effect.  This  is 
presented below under model (3). 
Results  from  criteria  (1),  (3)  and  (4)  are  presented  in  this  analysis,  using  a  logistic  model  for  p,  the 
probability of reporting RVGE after the one month post-vaccination blood sample: 
Model (1) Logit(p) = α + β * G; 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 11/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Model (2) Logit(p) = α + γ * C; 
Model (3) Logit(p) = α + β * G + γ * C 
where  G=1  for  subjects  receiving  the  vaccine  and  0  for  subjects  receiving  placebo,  with  C=1  for 
seropositive subjects and 0 for seronegative subjects. 
Note that criterion (4) requires that the vaccine group effect significance disappears in model (3) when 
the  surrogate  is  accounted.  However,  this  criterion  is  acknowledged  as  being  too  stringent  and  is 
unlikely  to  be  satisfied  completely.  In  practice,  it  is  expected  that  a  surrogate  endpoint  may  explain 
part but not all the treatment effect. As a result theproportion of explained vaccine group effect by the 
surrogate  as  proposed  by  Lin,  (LIN  DY  et  al.  Statistics  in  Medicine  1997;  16:  1515-1527)  is  also 
computed as 1-([β obtained from model (3)]/[β obtained from model (1)]). 
These models were based on all subjects with anti-RV IgA results available one month post-vaccination 
and who belonged to the ATP cohort of efficacy, defined as all RV naive subjects. 
Results 
In study Rota-037, subjects were allocated to a 3 dose HRV vaccine group, a 2 dose HRV vaccine with 
1 dose placebo group and a 3 dose placebo group according to a 1:1:1 randomization ratio. The study 
enrolled  4941  subjects,  of  which  4939  were  vaccinated  and  4417  comprised  the  ATP  cohort  for 
efficacy.  Immunogenicity  data  one  month  post  dose  3  was  missing  for  317  subjects,  thus  4100 
subjects were included in the Prentice criteria analysis. 
Since  a  correlate  is  expected  to  be  independent  of  the  number  of  doses  and  since  the  primary  study 
objective was to show efficacy of the HRV vaccine pooled group as compared to placebo, the Prentice 
criteria  analysis  was  applied  regardless  of  the  number  of  HRV  vaccine  doses  i.e.  using  a  pooled  HRV 
vaccine group and the placebo group. 
The  distribution  of  anti-RV-IgA  antibody  concentration  one  month  post-vaccination  for  the  4100 
subjects is summarized by group in Table 4. The table presents also the total number and percentage 
of subjects reporting RVGE (any and severe) after the blood sample. 
The results suggest that: 
In  the  HRV  vaccine  group,  anti-RV-IgA  antibody  concentrations  ≥  20  U/mL  appear  to  be  associated 
with a reduced risk of both any and severe RVGE. 
In the Placebo group, anti-RV IgA antibody concentrations ≥ 50 U/mL appear to be associated with a 
reduced  risk  of  both  any  and  severe  RVGE.  However  the  number  of  subjects  with  an  anti-RV  IgA 
antibody concentration between [20-50[ U/mL was limited to 52 (4%) subjects. 
A  similar  level  of  protection  was  observed  in  the  HRV  group  and  the  Placebo  group  for  anti-RV-IgA 
antibody concentrations ≥ 50 U/mL. This was observed for both any and severe RVGE. 
These  observations  are  formalized  using  the  Prentice  criteria  described  in  the  method  section  and 
applied to the study as shown in Table 5. 
Model (1) shows the statistical significance of the vaccine group effect; model (2) shows the statistical 
significance  of  seropositivity  effect.  Although  the  vaccine  group  effect  inmodel  (1)  and  seropositivity 
effect  in  model  (2)  are  both  associated  with  a  p-value  <  0.0001,  the  seropositivity  rate  is  more 
significant as shown by the larger log-likelihood ratio test. 
Model (3) shows the vaccine group effect for subjects when adjusting for the seropositivity status, and 
the seropositivity effect when adjusting for the vaccine group effect. 
The  seropositivity  effect  appears  to  be  stronger  than  the  vaccine  group  effect,  but  this  does  not 
capture the full vaccine group effect. The proportion of vaccine group effect explained by seropositivity 
accounts  for  43.6%  and  32.7%  of  the  vaccine  group  effect  on  any  RVGE  and  severe  RVGE, 
respectively.  This  low  proportion  of  explained  vaccine  group  effect  is  mainly  due  to  the  lower 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 12/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proportion of subjects reporting RVGE in the vaccine group as compared to the placebo group among 
seronegative subjects (see Table 4). Accordingly, in this analysis, seropositivity does not fully capture 
the vaccine group effect. 
2.2. Integrated analysis on correlate of efficacy based on 8 efficacy studies 
Methodology 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 13/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  meta-analysis  involving  8  Rotarix  VE  studies  was  performed  to  measure  the  correlation  between 
clinical VE and VE predicted from immunogenicity (VEI) (i.e. 1 minus the RR of seronegativity rate). 
All GSK sponsored HRV efficacy studies reported before 01 December 2011, for which immunogenicity 
data at one or two months post-vaccination were available, were a priori eligible for this meta-analysis. 
Rota-007 was excluded due to a low number of RVGEs. Therefore, 8 studies contributed to the meta-
analysis.  If  the  seropositivity  at  one/two  months  post-vaccination  is  indicative  of  protection,  it  would 
be expected that VE inferred from immunogenicity (VEI) would be correlated to clinical VE. 
In each study clinical VE and VEI were estimated as: 
•  VE=  1-P1/P0  where  P1  and  P0  are  the  proportion  of  subjects  reporting  RVGE  in  the  vaccine 
group and the placebo group, respectively. This was based on the ATP cohort for efficacy. 
•  VEI = 1-([1-S+1]/[1-S+0]) where S+1 and S+0 are the proportion of seropositive subjects in 
the vaccine group and the placebo group, respectively. 
This  was  based  on  the  ATP  cohort  for  immunogenicity  defined  as  all  subjects  who  complied  with  the 
vaccination and blood sampling schedule, for whom immunogenicity data were available, and who had 
no  RV  other  than  vaccine  strain  in  stool  samples.  The  95%  CI  for  VE  and  VEI  were  based  on  exact 
Poisson rate ratio between groups.  
The predicted value of VEIi for the clinical VEi in study i was assessed using the following regression: 
log(1-VEi)=μ  +  ω  *  log(1-VEIi)  +  έI  ,  with  έi  being  a  random  error  normally  distributed.  The  log 
transformation was used to normalize the distribution. 
To account for the known variability of VE and VEI from each study, the intercept (μ) and the slope (ω) 
of the regression were estimated with 95% CI using imputation techniques. 
Results 
Figure  2  presents  the  scatter  plots  of  the  observed  RR  of  reporting  RVGE  (any  and  severe)  in  the 
vaccine  group  as  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (i.e.  1-VE)  versus  the  observed  RR  of  the 
seronegativity rate (i.e. 1-VEI). Each dot represents a study with a horizontal line showing the 95% CI 
around  1-VEI  and  a  vertical  line  showing  the  95%  CI  around  1-VE.  The  estimated  regression  line  is 
shown in blue with numerical expression annotated. 
In absence of a predictive value of VEI for VE, a horizontal estimated line would be expected. However, 
over 1 year follow up of any RVGE, the estimated regression line presents a slope that is statistically 
significantly different from 0 indicating a relationship between VE predicted from the seropositivity rate 
and  clinical  VE  (Figure  2A).  The  regression  line  is  generally  above  the  black  line  which  represents  an 
exact  fit  between  VEI  and  VE.  This  suggests  that  VEI  may  be  an  overestimation  of  the  true  efficacy. 
Similar findings were observed when assessing the predictive value of VEI for clinical VE for any RVGE 
reported within 2 years following vaccination (Figure 2B). 
The regression analyses associated with severe RVGE are presented in Figure 2C and Figure 2D over a 
1 year and 2 year follow-up, respectively. Again the estimated regression lines present a slope that is 
statistically  significantly  different  from  0  indicating  a  relationship  between  VE  predicted  from  the 
seropositivity  rate  and  clinical  VE.  However,  in  this  case  the  estimated  regression  line  is  below  the 
black  line  which  represents  an  exact  fit  between  VEI  and  VE.  This  suggests  that  VEI  may  be  an 
underestimation of the true efficacy. 
For all considered endpoints, the 95% CI for the slope excludes 0, indicating that there is a relationship 
between the immunological response and the efficacy of the vaccine. 
Figure 2 Meta-analysis: Scatter plots of the relative risk with 95% CI for efficacy and immunogenicity 
by study 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 14/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 15/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 16/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions  based  on  exploratory  analysis  of  efficacy  study  Rota-037  and  integrated 
analysis on correlate of efficacy 
The analysis of the data of study Rota-037 and a linear regression analysis of a metaanalysis including 
8 efficacy studies from Africa, Asia, Europe and South America (Rota- 004, -006, -023, -024, -028 to -
030,  -036,  -037  and  -056)  indicate  that  post-vaccination  anti-RV  IgA  antibody  seropositivity  (i.e. 
antibody  concentration  ≥  20  U/mL)  may  serve  as  a  useful  correlate  of  efficacy  in  clinical  trials  of 
Rotarix. 
Assessor’s comment 
The Company submitted additional analyses showing that serum IgA anti rotavirus seropositivity 
(≥ 20 U/ml) correlates with clinical protection against any and severe rotavirus gastroenteritis in 
children. It is understood that this protection is restricted to the G1P8 rotavirus type.  
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 17/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question No. 02 - Clinical 
The  maximum  follow-up  was  21  months.  However,  the  duration  of  participation  in  the  study  remains 
unclear.  This  may  be  important  for  appreciating  the  persistence  of  protection  against  G2P[4]  during 
the second year of life. The MAH should provide this information. 
Company’s Response 
The first visit of the first subject took place on 29 August 2010. The duration of the study was driven 
by  the  number  of  cases  needed  to  reach  the  statistical  power  for  the  primary  endpoint.  Based  on  a 
preliminary  review  of  severe  gastroenteritis  (GE)  data  during  the  first  year  efficacy  follow-up,  it  was 
anticipated  that  the  required  number  of  cases  for  the  evaluation  of  VE  against  severe  rotavirus 
gastroenteritis (RVGE) would not be available at the end of the first year follow-up and therefore, the 
study was extended to include follow-up during a second rotavirus (RV) season. 
The maximum interval allowed for the last study visit was 01 April 2012 to 31 May 2012. The last visit 
of  the  last  subject  occurred  on  12  May  2012  and  thus  the  maximum  duration  of  study  participation 
could be up to 21 months. 
Table 6 presents the duration of the study for the Total vaccinated cohort. The mean duration was 1.41 
years  (16.9  months)  in  the  HRV  group  and  1.40  years  (16.8  months)  in  the  placebo  group.  The 
maximum duration was 1.68 years (20.1 months) in both groups.  
The duration of participation in the study for each subject depends on the date of study entry and the 
date of last study visit. The age at the first vaccine dose, together with the duration of participation in 
the study, has an impact on the number of children ≥ 12 months of age at the end of the study. 
Table  7  presents  the  number  and  percentage  of  subjects  younger  than  12  months  of  age  and  12 
months of age or older at Visit 7 or last contact in the According-To-Protocol (ATP) cohort for efficacy. 
The age at the last contact was considered if the subject withdrew before Visit 7. The table indicates 
that  the  majority  of  the  subjects  (97.7%  in  HRV  group  and  96.2%  in  placebo  group)  included  in  the 
evaluation of the primary efficacy objective (on the combined efficacy period) were 12 months of age 
or older at the end of the study. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 18/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  8  presents  the  vaccine  efficacy  (VE)  against  any  and  severe  RVGE  caused  by  G2P[4], 
respectively,  during  the  combined  efficacy  period  (i.e.  Visit  1  until  Visit  7).  VE  against  any  RVGE 
caused by G2P[4] was 58.9% (95% CI 40.5, 72.0) and VE against severe RVGE caused by G2P[4] was 
72.5%  (95%  CI  45.5,  87.3)  during  the  combined  efficacy  period.  These  results  are  aligned  with  VE 
against  any  RVGE  and  severe  RVGE  caused  by  circulating  wild-type  RV  during  the  combined  efficacy 
period (58.1% [95% CI 44.3; 68.8] and 72.0% [95% CI 54.1; 83.6], respectively.  
The  protocol  defined  the  maximum  allowed  interval  for  Visit  6  as  1  year  of  age  ±  30  days.  Table  9 
presents the number of subjects younger than 12 months of age and 12 months or older at Visit 6 or 
last  contact  in  the  ATP  cohort  for  efficacy.  The  age  at  the  last  contact  was  considered  if  the  subject 
withdrew  before  Visit  6.  Of  the  subjects  evaluated  for  efficacy  during  the  first  year  follow  up,  about 
55% were younger than 12 months of age and about 45% were 12 months of age or older. To further 
investigate  the  age  distribution,  Table  10  presents  the  age  at  Visit  6  or  last  contact  by  month  and 
indicates that the majority (98.9%) of the subjects are in the age of 11 months (54.8%) or 12 months 
(44.2%) at Visit 6. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 19/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  11  presents  the  VE  against  any  and  severe  RV  GE  caused  by  G2P[4],  respectively,  during  the 
first efficacy period (i.e. from 2 weeks after Dose 2 until Visit 6). Because the majority of the subjects 
are  11  or  12  months  of  age  at  Visit  6,  this  represents  VE  in  subjects  11  to  12  months  of  age.  VE 
against  any  RVGE  caused  by  G2P[4]  was  67.2%  (95%  CI  46.2,  80.7)  and  VE  against  severe  RVGE 
caused by G2P[4] was 72.0% (95% CI 33.5, 89.8). 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 20/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To further evaluate the VE in subjects aged 12 months or older, the VE against any and severe RVGE 
caused by G2P[4] during the second efficacy period (i.e. Visit 6 until Visit 7) was calculated (Table 13). 
The  ATP  cohort  for  efficacy  for  the  second  year  follow-up  period  only  included  subjects  of  the  ATP 
cohort of efficacy who had follow-up beyond Visit 6 (year 1). Table 12 shows that all subjects included 
in the ATP cohort for efficacy for the second year follow-up period were 12 months of age or older. 
VE against any RVGE caused by G2P[4] was 43.7% (95% CI -0.3, 69.2) and VE against severe RVGE 
caused by G2P[4] was 73.7% (95% CI 17.5, 93.6) during the second year follow-up. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 21/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taken together, the data indicate that the primary analysis of the study (combined efficacy period) is a 
good  representation  of  the  VE  in  subjects  of  12  months  or  older.  In  addition,  Table  13  clearly  shows 
that the vaccine provided protection against severe RVGE caused by G2P[4] during the second year of 
life. 
Assessor’s comment 
The main interest of Question 2 was to know whether the vaccine protects during the second year 
of  life  against  RGVE  due  to  G2P4.  We  are  not  interested  in  combined  efficacy  estimations  in 
subjects 12 months or older, which is potentially driven by protection during the first year of life, 
not by protection during the second year of life. It is reassuring to see in Table 13 that protection 
against  severe  RVGE  due  to  G2P4  is  very  well  preserved  during  the  second  year  of  life.  Issue 
resolved.  
Question No. 03 - Clinical 
The  immunogenicity  results  are  missing  in  the  clinical  study  report.  As  a  consequence,  the 
immunological data of study Rota-075 should be submitted in due time. 
Company’s Response 
The  Annex  Clinical  Study  Report  (CSR)  describing  the  immunogenicity  data  of  study  Rota-075  is 
provided in Module 5. The submission of this Annex CSR is part of the ongoing EMEA/H/C/639 Article 
P46 076 clinical procedure. 
Assessor’s comment 
Issue resolved, cf. response to Question 1. 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 22/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Labelling 
Question No. 1 - Labelling 
The  efficacy  data  from  China  should  be  added  to  section  5.1  of  the  SmPC.  A  clarification  should  be 
given that the study was performed using the liquid formulation. The efficacy tables already available 
in the current SmPC should clarify that the studies were conducted with the lyophilised formulation.  
Company’s Response 
As  explained  in  the  response  to  Question  1,  the  vaccine  efficacy  and  immune  response  of  the  liquid 
formulation  is  similar  to  the  vaccine  efficacy  and  immune  response  of  the  lyophilised  formulation  in 
countries  of  the  same  socio-economic  level.  Furthermore,  the  difference  in  vaccine  efficacy  and 
immune response of the liquid formulation in China (study Rota-075) and the lyophilised formulation in 
Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan (study Rota-028-029-030) is believed to be due to the difference in 
socio-economic  level  between  the  2  settings.  Please  refer  to  the  response  to  Question  1  for  more 
details.  
In addition, the data obtained with the liquid formulation in China fall within the range of the vaccine 
efficacy  and  immune  response  measured  in  the  regions  in  which  the  highest  (Europe  and  developed 
countries in Asia) and lowest (Africa) values are observed. It should be noted that this range of data is 
already presented in the current SmPC. 
In  order  to  further  assess  the  CHMP  request,  the  Company  has  reviewed  the  available  labelling  EU 
guidelines: 
The guideline related to Section 5.1 of the SmPC in the ‘Notice to Applicants: A guideline on summary 
of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  September  2009’  gives  guidance  on  the  inclusion  of  data  from 
clinical  trials  for  all  pharmaceutical  products.  The  guideline  mentions  the  inclusion  of  clinical  efficacy 
data  and  specifies  that  the  information  has  to  be  concise,  clear,  relevant  and  balanced,  and  should 
summarise evidence from relevant studies supporting the indication. 
Further guidance on the content of Section 5.1 can be found in the ‘Guideline on clinical evaluation of 
new  vaccines’  (adopted  in  October  2006)  and  the  annex  to  the  guideline  describing  SmPC 
requirements. These guidelines highlight that the most pertinent immunological data and estimates of 
efficacy considered to be valid should be mentioned in Section 5.1. 
The  current  version  of  the  Rotarix  liquid  SmPC  contains  a  section  on  the  “Protective  efficacy  of  the 
lyophilised  formulation”  that  presents  efficacy  results  in  different  areas  of  the  world.  In  addition  the 
following statement is included 
“Protective efficacy of the liquid formulation 
Since the immune response observed after 2 doses of Rotarix liquid formulation was comparable to the 
immune  response  observed  after  2  doses  of  Rotarix  lyophilised  formulation,  the  levels  of  vaccine 
efficacy observed with the lyophilised formulation can be extrapolated to the liquid formulation”. 
Based on the data (including the data of study Rota-075), the information in the response to Question 
1  and  the  additional  information  provided  above,  the  statement  on  “Protective  efficacy  of  the  liquid 
formulation” remains correct. 
Because the statement in the current SmPC remains correct and taking into account the guidelines in 
relation to inclusion of concise and clear information and presentation of the most pertinent data, the 
Company  is  of  the  opinion  that  there  is  no  added  value  in  presenting  similar data  twice  in  the  SmPC 
and therefore recommends not to update the SmPC with the data of study Rota-075. 
Assessor’s comment 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 23/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company did not provide an acceptable justification for not adding the Rota-075 efficacy data 
to section 5.1 under the heading “Sustained efficacy up to 3 years of age in Asia”. The statement 
that  the  Chinese  data  are  a  duplication  of  data  already  available  in  the  SmPC  is  not  endorsed 
since  the  less  favourable  data  are  exclusively  from  Africa.  For  the  sake  of  completeness  and  to 
avoid that the SmPC becomes a purely promotional instrument instead of an objective source of 
information  for  the  prescriber,  the  SmPC  should  be  updated  with  the  Chinese  data.  So,  the 
Company  is  requested  to  introduce  a  type  II  variation  in  order  to  update  the  SmPC  using  an 
appropriate  wording.  Persistent  protection  against  severe  RVG  due  to  G2P4  during  the  second 
year of life should be part of the new information. Issue not resolved. 
V. RAPPORTEUR’S CONCLUSION 
According  to  the  Company,  the  efficacy  against  severe  RV  GE  in  study  Rota-075  was  lower  than  the 
one  observed  in  the  EU  and  developed  Asian  countries,  but  was  in  the  range  of  what  has  been 
observed  in  clinical  trials  conducted  in  Latin  America  and  Africa,  which  are  already  presented  in  the 
current Product Information. Consequently, no change to the SmPC is needed.  
The Rapporteur endorses the Company’s conclusion regarding the study outcome. However, in contrast 
to the Company’s opinion  that there is no  need for  updating the product information, the Rapporteur 
believes that the efficacy data should be added to section 5.1 of the SmPC. Hence, the current efficacy 
information from the Asian continent is very sparse and the new data contribute to a better knowledge 
of the clinical protection that can be expected. There is no reason for not mentioning this information 
under the heading “Sustained efficacy up to 3 years of age in Asia”.  
Comments were received from (Member state) 
(Member  state)    agrees  with  the  Rapporteur’s  conclusion  that  the  questions  have  been  addressed 
satisfactorily. The suggestion from the MAH that the reason for low efficacy results in China is related 
to  low  immune  response,  which  is  in  turn  related  to  low  socioeconomic  status,  and  not  to  the  liquid 
formulation, is considered acceptable. 
However,  (Member  state)  tends  to  support  the  MAH’s  position  that  these  results  are  not  so  essential 
that  they  need  to  be  added  to  section  5.1 of  the  SmPC,  which  is  already  very  comprehensive.  These 
data  are  not  directly  relevant  to  EU  prescribers  and  are  consistent  with  the  range  of  efficacy  rates 
already described. Therefore, the request for a type II variation is not supported. 
Rapporteur’s comment to the (Member state) comment 
Although it is correct that the Chinese data are not relevant to the EU prescriber the (Member state)s 
arguments for not adding this information to the SmPC are not endorsed. The SmPC contains already a 
lot of information that is irrelevant to the EU prescriber. During the recently CHMP approved variation 
II-47 (July 2013) related to the updating of section 5.1, the CHMP requested (and the MAH committed) 
to mention the lack of protection against RV G2 among aboriginal infants in Australia. This information 
is  obviously  not  relevant  to  the  EU  prescriber.  Furthermore,  the  currently  ongoing  updating  of  the 
intussusception  information  is  exclusively  based  on  populations  living  outside  Europe  (Mexico,  Brazil, 
USA, Australia) and not necessarily applicable to the EU, especially with respect to the attributable risk 
that is proposed to be added to the SmPC.  
There is obviously no need for redundant efficacy or effectiveness data from all countries in the world. 
However,  is  inappropriate  to  suggest  that  the  Chinese  data  are  redundant  because  they  are  in  the 
range of efficacy rates already mentioned. The Chinese efficacy rates fit only in the African ones, not in 
those  from  other  areas.  This  similarity  cannot  be  observed  when  Chinese  results  are  missing. 
Furthermore,  the  current  information  from  Asia  is  incomplete,  only  information  being  available  from 
Singapore,  Hong  Kong  and  Taiwan.  Considering  that  the  socioeconomic  level  of  the  population  is  a 
major determinant for vaccine efficacy (as shown in the MAH’s response) and that many, if not most, 
areas  in  China  have  a  living  standard  below  the  levels  of  Singapore,  Hong  Kong  or  Taiwan,  the  72% 
vaccine efficacy against severe RVGE in study Rota-075 is more relevant for China than the 100% in 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the former three areas. Finally, when not mentioning the Chinese data, some major information about 
persistent protection against G2P4 during the second year of life will remain hidden to the prescriber. 
Hence,  the  latter  phenomenon  was  not  observed  in  Singapore,  Hong  Kong  or  Taiwan  because  of  the 
very low incidence of RV infection.  
The benefit-risk balance is not compromised. 
On the 19 Dec 2013 the CHMP adopted the following conclusions: 
According to the Company, the efficacy against severe rotavirus gastroenteritis in study Rota-075 was 
lower  than  the  one  observed  in  the  EU  and  developed  Asian  countries,  but  was  in  the  range  of  what 
has been observed in clinical trials conducted in Latin America and Africa, which are already presented 
in the current Product Information. Consequently, no change to the SmPC is needed. 
The  CHMP  endorses  the  Company’s  conclusion  regarding  the  study  outcome  and  agrees  that  there  is 
no need for updating the product information as these data are not directly relevant to EU prescribers. 
The CHMP however noted that the current efficacy information from the Asian continent is very sparse 
and the new data contribute to a better knowledge of the clinical protection that can be expected. 
VI. REQUEST FOR SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 
None 
Rotarix  
P46  076.1 
Page 25/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
