16 March 2015 
EMA/178957/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Rotarix 
rotavirus vaccine, live 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000639 
P46  069 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
No SmPC and PL changes are proposed. 
II. 
RECOMMENDATION1 
The data from this study do not warrant any changes in the SmPC and PL.  
III. 
INTRODUCTION 
On  02/09/2011,  the  MAH  submitted  a  completed  paediatric  study  for  Rotarix  to  comply  with  the 
requirements  of  Article  46  of  Regulation  (EC)  No1901/2006,  as  amended,  on  medicinal  products  for 
paediatric use. The study has not been conducted in accordance with an agreed paediatric investigation 
plan. The Food and Drug Administration of Taiwan had requested GSK to conduct this study as a post-
approval  commitment  to  collect  local  clinical  data  on  the  immunogenicity  and  safety  of  Rotarix  when 
administered to healthy Taiwanese infants who had received hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) within 
24h after birth. 
The MAH stated that the submitted paediatric study does not influence the benefit risk for Rotarix and 
that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
IV. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
1 The recommendation from section V can be copied in this section 
Rotarix 
P46 069 
Page 2/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                 
Clinical aspects 
1. Introduction 
The MAH submitted the final report for study 114351 (Rota-077 PMS), a phase IV, open, multi-centre 
study to assess the immunogenicity, reactogenicity and safety of two doses of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) 
Biologicals’  oral  live  attenuated  human  rotavirus  (HRV)  vaccine  in  healthy  Taiwanese  infants  who 
received hepatitis B immunoglobulin after birth. 
Assessors’ comment 
This study was planned to be conducted at multiple centres in Taiwan. However, all the subjects were 
enrolled at one centre. 
2. Clinical study 
  Methods 
  Objective(s) 
Primary: 
o  To assess the immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals' HRV vaccine in terms of serum anti-rotavirus 
IgA antibody seroconversion rate, 2 months post-Dose 2 (i.e. at Visit 3) of the HRV vaccine. 
Secondary: 
o  To assess the immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals' HRV vaccine in terms of serum anti-rotavirus 
IgA antibody concentrations 2 months post-Dose 2 (i.e. at Visit 3) of the HRV vaccine. 
o  To assess the reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals' HRV vaccine in terms of occurrence of solicited 
adverse events (AEs) within the 8-day (Day 0 to Day 7) follow-up period after each dose of the 
HRV vaccine. 
o  To assess the safety of GSK Biologicals' HRV vaccine in terms of unsolicited AEs within 31 days 
after  any  dose  of  the  HRV  vaccine  and  SAEs,  from  Dose  1  of  the  HRV  vaccine  up  to  Visit  3 
(Month 4). 
o  To  assess  the  presence  of  RV  in  gastroenteritis  (GE)  stools  collected  from  Dose  1  of  HRV 
vaccine up to Visit 3 (Month 4) 
  Study design 
Phase  IV,  open-label,  single  centre,  single  group.  All  subjects  received  two  doses  of  HRV  vaccine  at 
Visit 1 (Day 0) and Visit 2 (Month 2) (at 2, 4 months of age). Blood samples were collected at Visit 1 
and at Visit 3 (Month 4). Stool samples were collected in case of GE occurring from Dose 1 of the HRV 
vaccine up to study end (Visit 3). Cf. Figure below. 
  Study population /Sample size 
Healthy  infants  between,  and  including,  6  and  12  weeks  of  age  at  the  time  of  first  vaccination. 
Subjects  who  had  received  a  previous  dose  of  hepatitis  B  immunoglobulin  (HBIG)  after  birth  were 
included in the study. 15 subjects were planned and enrolled in the study. 
 
Treatments 
Two doses of  HRV vaccine to be administered at 2, 4 months of age. All subjects will receive routine 
childhood vaccinations according to the local immunisation practice. 
Rotarix 
P46 069 
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Study design 
  Outcomes/endpoints 
Immunogenicity:  Serum  anti-rotavirus  IgA  antibody  concentrations  in  samples  collected  at  Visit  1 
and at Visit 3 using an in-house Enzyme Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA). 
Safety  and  reactogenicity:  Recording  of  solicited  symptoms  (fever,  fussiness/irritability,  loss  of 
appetite, cough/runny nose, diarrhoea and vomiting) during the 8-day follow-up period (Day 0 to Day 
7)  after  each  dose  of  HRV  vaccine.  Recording  of  unsolicited  symptoms  occurring  during  the  31-day 
follow-up period (Day 0 – Day 30) after any dose of HRV vaccine. Recording of serious adverse events 
(SAEs) occurring during the entire study period (from Dose 1 of HRV vaccine up to Visit 3). 
Evaluation  of  RV  in  GE  stool  samples:  Recording  of  any  GE  (diarrhoea  with  or  without  vomiting) 
occurring from Dose 1 of HRV vaccine up to Visit 3. 
  Statistical methods, sample size 
The sample size was pre-defined as per the regulatory request. Using a sample size of 15 subjects a 
90.0% seroconversion rate (exact 95% CI 63.7%; 99.3%) was expected.  
Analysis of demography:  The mean, range and standard deviation (SD) of height (in cm)  and  weight 
(in kg) at Visit 1 was calculated. The mean, range and SD of age in weeks at each dose of HRV vaccine 
were also calculated. The racial and gender composition were tabulated. 
Analysis  of  Immunogenicity:  The  analysis  of  immunogenicity  was  performed  on  the  ATP  cohort  for 
immunogenicity. 
Analysis  of  Reactogenicity  and  Safety:  The  safety  analysis  was  performed  on  the  total  vaccinated 
cohort. The percentage of doses and of subjects with any symptom (solicited or unsolicited) reported 
Rotarix 
P46 069 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
during  the  8-day  (Day  0  to  Day  7)  follow-up  period  and  with  each  solicited  symptom  including  those 
rated  grade  3  in  intensity,  those  assessed  as  related  to  vaccination  and  symptoms  rated  grade  3  in 
intensity  and  related  to  vaccination  reported  during  the  8-day  (Day  0  to  Day  7)  solicited  follow-up 
period was tabulated by group with their exact 95% CIs. The verbatim reports of unsolicited symptoms 
were to be reviewed by a physician and the signs and symptoms were coded according to the Medical 
Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). Every verbatim term was matched with the appropriate 
Preferred  Term  (PT).  The  percentage  of  subjects  with  unsolicited  symptoms  occurring  within  31  days 
(Day 0 to Day 30) after any dose, with its exact 95% CI was tabulated, and by PT. Similar tabulation 
was done for unsolicited symptoms with causal relationship to vaccination and for unsolicited AEs rated 
as grade “3”. SAEs reported during the study period (i.e. from Dose 1 up to Visit 3) were summarised. 
Analysis of Stool Samples: The analysis was performed on the total vaccinated cohort. The percentage 
of subjects reporting GE and RV GE episodes from Dose 1 of HRV vaccine up to Visit 3 was tabulated. 
  Results 
  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Analyses were performed as per protocol. None of the subjects were excluded from the ATP analyses. 
Hence, the total vaccinated cohort and the ATP cohort for immunogenicity consisted 
of all 15 enrolled subjects. 
  Immunogenicity results (Table 11) 
  Safety results 
o  The percentage of subjects reporting any AEs (solicited or unsolicited) during the 8-day (Day 0 – 
Day 7) follow-up period was 86.7%. There was no increase in the incidence of AEs (solicited or 
unsolicited) from Dose 1 to Dose 2 of the HRV vaccine. 
o  The  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  any  AEs  (solicited  or  unsolicited)  rated  as  Grade  3  in 
intensity during the 8-day (Day 0 – Day 7) follow-up period was 20.0% and those assessed as 
causally related to vaccination was 60.0%. The vaccine related AEs reported in this study were 
solicited AEs as there were no reports of Grade 3 and vaccine related unsolicited AEs. 
o  Irritability was the most frequently reported solicited AE after each dose; reported for 53.3% of 
subjects after Dose 1 and for 60.0% of subjects after Dose 2. 
o  Irritability rated grade “3” in intensity was reported for 6.7% of subjects after each dose of HRV 
vaccine. 
o  Grade “3” solicited AEs were reported in less than 6.7% of the subjects after each dose. 
o  The percentage of subjects reporting at least one unsolicited AE classified by MedDRA SOC and 
PT during the 31-day (Day 0 – Day 30) follow-up period was 26.7%. 
o  There were no reports of unsolicited AEs rated grade ‘3’ in intensity and those assessed by the 
investigator to be causally related to vaccination during the study. 
Rotarix 
P46 069 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
o  One subject had a report of a SAE of “Bronchiolitis” classified by MedDRA SOC and PT during the 
study  period.  The  subject  experienced  the  SAE  17  days  after  receiving  Dose  2  of  HRV  vaccine. 
The  SAE  lasted  for  25  days  and  was  assessed  by  the  investigator  as  not  causally  related  to 
vaccination. There were no AEs leading to premature discontinuation of the study vaccine and/or 
study. 
• 
Concomitant medications 
o  The percentage of subjects who started taking at least one concomitant medication from Day 0 
to Day 7 was 20.0%. Antipyretic medications were received by 13.3% of subjects. None of the 
subjects received prophylactic antipyretic or any antibiotic from Day 0 to Day 7 after vaccination. 
o  The  percentage  of  subjects  who  started  taking  at  least  one  concomitant  medication  during  the 
study period was 40.0%. Antipyretic medications were received by 33.3% of subjects.  
o  None of the subjects received prophylactic antipyretic or any antibiotic during the study. 
•  Rotavirus in stool samples 
o  The percentage of subjects reporting GE episodes from Dose 1 of HRV vaccine up to Visit 3 was 
13.3% (n=2). 
o  There were two GE episodes reported between Dose 1 and before Dose 2 of HRV vaccine. Of the 
GE episodes reported, GE stool result was not available for 1 subject (50.0%) because GE stool 
sample was not collected from the subject. 
o  There were no reports of RV GE episodes from Dose 1 of HRV vaccine up to Visit 3. 
3. Discussion on clinical aspects 
This  study  was  conducted  following  the  request  from  the  FDA  of  Taiwan  to  conduct  a  post-licensure 
study  to  assess  the  potential  impact  of  the  HBIG  dose  received  by  subjects  after  birth  on  the  HRV 
vaccine  by  evaluating  the  immunogenicity  and  safety  of  the  HRV  vaccine.  Two  doses  of  the  HRV 
vaccine were immunogenic with the anti-rotavirus IgA antibody seroconversion of 100%. These results 
indicate that administering HBIG after birth does not seem to negatively impact the immune response 
to the HRV antigen. In addition, the seroconversion rate observed in this study was comparable to the 
results observed in a previous study conducted in the same geographic location.  
V.  RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
• 
• 
• 
Two doses of the HRV vaccine were immunogenic in healthy infants who received HBIG after birth 
as  shown  by  the  anti-rotavirus  IgA  antibody  seroconversion  rate  of  100.0%  [95%  CI:  78.2%; 
100.0%] two months post-Dose 2. 
Irritability  was  the  most  frequently  reported  solicited  AE  after  each  dose.  None  of  the  unsolicited 
symptoms reported were rated grade 3 in intensity and causally related to vaccination.  
There  was  one  SAE  (Bronchiolitis)  reported  during  the  study  period  that  was  not  assessed  to  be 
related to vaccination. 
There were no fatal events reported in the study. 
• 
•  RV was not identified in the one GE stool sample collected in the study. 
  Recommendation  
Fulfilled: 
No further action required 
REQUEST FOR SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 
VI. 
None 
Rotarix 
P46 069 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
