12 March 2015 
EMA/170635/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Rotarix 
rotavirus vaccine, live 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000639 
P46  063 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
No SmPC and PL changes are proposed. 
1. 
RECOMMENDATION 
The Rapporteur endorses the conclusions drawn by the MAH and does not require any further action to 
be taken. 
2. 
INTRODUCTION 
On 26/01/2011, the MAH submitted 2 completed paediatric study(ies) for Rotarix, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended, on medicinal products for paediatric use. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The  MAH  stated  that  the  submitted  paediatric  study(ies)  do  not  influence  the  benefit  risk  for  Rotarix 
and that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
3. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study(ies) 
This assessment report concerns two paediatric studies, respectively a post marketing surveillance and 
a Phase I study to monitor the reactogenicity and safety of the Rotarix vaccine. 
Rotarix  is  indicated  for  the  active  immunisation  of  infants  from  the  age  of  6  weeks  for  prevention  of 
gastroenteritis due to rotavirus infection, and has been shown to be effective against G1P[8], G2P[4], 
G3P[8], G4P[8] and G9P[8] rotavirus types. 
The first dose may be administered from the age of 6 weeks. There should be an interval of at least 4 
weeks between doses. The vaccination course should preferably be given before 16 weeks of age, but 
must be completed by the age of 24 weeks.  
Clinical aspects 
1. Introduction 
The MAH submitted final report(s) for: 
- 
- 
112896  (Rota-071  PMS):  Post  marketing  surveillance  to  monitor  the  reactogenicity  and  safety  of 
GlaxoSmithKline  (GSK)  Biologicals’  oral  live  attenuated  human  rotavirus 
vaccine,  Rotarix™  when  administered  according  to  the  Prescribing 
Information to Indian infants. 
113552  (Rota-073):  Phase  I,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo  controlled  study  to  evaluate  the 
reactogenicity  and  safety  of  a  single  oral  dose  of  GlaxoSmithKline  (GSK) 
Biologicals’  live    ttenuated  liquid  human  rotavirus  (HRV)  vaccine  in  healthy 
children aged 2 to 6 years in China. 
2. Clinical study(ies) 
112896  (Rota-071  PMS):  Post  marketing  surveillance  to  monitor  the  reactogenicity  and 
safety  of  GlaxoSmithKline  (GSK)  Biologicals’  oral  live  attenuated  human  rotavirus  vaccine, 
Rotarix™ when administered according to the Prescribing Information to Indian infants. 
  Methods 
  Objective(s) 
Primary: 
Rotarix 
P46 063 
Page 2/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  To assess the reactogenicity of Rotarix in terms of occurrence of at least one Grade “2” 
or  Grade  “3”  fever,  vomiting  or  diarrhoea  within  the  8-day  (Day  0–Day  7)  follow-up 
period after any Rotarix vaccination. 
Secondary: 
  To  assess  the  reactogenicity  of  Rotarix  in  terms  of  occurrence  of  solicited  adverse 
events  (AEs)  within  a  8-day  (Day  0-Day  7)  follow-up  period  after  each  dose  of  the 
vaccination. 
  To assess the safety of  Rotarix  in terms of occurrence  of  unsolicited  AEs within  a 31-
day  (Day  0-  Day  30)  follow-up  period  after  any  vaccination,  according  to  Medical 
Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) classification. 
  To assess the safety of  Rotarix  in terms of serious adverse events (SAEs) throughout 
the  surveillance  period  after  the  first  dose  was  administered  in  the  Post  Marketing 
Surveillance (PMS). 
  Study design 
This PMS was an open, self-contained, single group PMS. Subjects who were prescribed Rotarix 
in the course of their normal clinical practice were enrolled in this study. Two doses of Rotarix 
were administered as per the Prescribing Information (PI). First vaccination was administered 
from the age of 6 weeks and the second  vaccination was administered at least 4 weeks after 
the first dose. Dose 2 was given before 24 weeks of age. Subjects who had received one dose 
of  Rotarix  prior  to  start  of  the  PMS  were  also  enrolled.  All  subjects  were  allowed  to  receive 
routine  vaccinations  concurrently  with  Rotarix  according  to  the  Expanded  Programme  on 
Immunisation (EPI). No blood samples were collected in this PMS. Data collection was done by 
Remote Data Entry (RDE) using electronic Case Report Forms (eCRFs). 
  Study population /Sample size 
II. 
The number of subjects to be included in the PMS was determined to be 371 subjects to 
reach 500 evaluable doses. Considering a 10% dropout rate, there were 334 evaluable subjects 
in this PMS. 
III. 
Assuming that 50% of the enrolled subjects would receive 2 doses (Dose 1 and Dose 2) of 
Rotarix in this PMS, at least 500 evaluable doses of Rotarix would be obtained. 
 
Treatments 
Subjects received two oral doses of Rotarix according to a 0, 1 month schedule. The duration 
of  the  PMS,  per  subject,  was  approximately  2-3  months.  For  the  subjects  who  had  received 
one  dose  of  Rotarix  prior  to  the  start  of  the  PMS  and  for  subjects  who  received  Dose  2  of 
Rotarix at another clinic not participating in this surveillance, the duration was approximately 1 
month. 
Each  1  millilitre  (mL)  dose  of  vaccine  contained  not  less  than  106.0  median  Cell  Culture 
Infective  Dose  (CCID50)  of  RIX4414  Live  Attenuated  HRV  strain  lyophilised  with  active 
substance. As this was a PMS study, commercial lots of the vaccine that were purchased locally 
by  the  subject’s  parents/guardians  were  used.  Hence,  lot  numbers  for  the  vaccine  are  not 
known. 
  Outcomes/endpoints 
IV. 
Primary endpoint: 
  Occurrence of at least one Grade “2” or Grade “3” fever, vomiting or diarrhoea during 
the 8-day (Day 0–Day 7) follow-up period after any Rotarix vaccination. 
V. 
Secondary endpoints: 
 
For each type of solicited symptom, occurrence of the symptom within the 8-day (Day 
0-Day 7) follow-up period after each dose of the vaccination. 
  Occurrence of unsolicited symptoms during the 31-day (Day 0-Day 30) follow-up 
period after any vaccination, according to MedDRA classification. 
Rotarix 
P46 063 
Page 3/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  Occurrence of SAEs throughout the surveillance period following the first dose 
administered in the PMS. 
  Statistical Methods 
VI. 
The  analyses  were  performed  according  to  the  protocol  and  as  described  in  the  study 
reporting and analysis plan (RAP). Analysis was performed on the TVC. 
VII. 
Analysis of demography 
VIII. 
The mean, range and standard deviation (SD) of height in (centimetres [cm]) and weight (in 
kilograms [kg]) at each dose of Rotarix vaccination was calculated. The mean, range and SD of 
age in weeks at each vaccination were calculated. The racial and gender composition had also 
been presented. The distribution of subjects enrolled among the PMS centres was tabulated. 
IX. 
X. 
XI. 
XII. 
XIII. 
Analysis of reactogenicity and safety 
The  overall  incidence,  with  exact  95%  confidence  interval  (CI),  of  any  AEs  (solicited  or 
unsolicited)  during  the  8-days  solicited  follow-up  period  was  tabulated,  for  each  dose,  for 
overall  per  dose  and  overall  per  subject.  The  same  calculations  were  done  for  any  AEs 
(solicited  or  unsolicited);  rated  as  Grade  “3”  and  for  those  assessed  as  causally  related  to 
vaccination. 
Percentage of doses and of subjects reporting fever, vomiting or diarrhoea graded “2” or “3” 
in intensity during the solicited follow-up period was calculated. The incidence, with exact 95% 
CI,  of  each  individual  solicited  AE,  was  calculated,  over  the  solicited  follow-up  period,  after 
each dose, for overall per dose and overall per subject. 
The same calculations were done for each individual solicited AE rated as Grade “3” and for 
each individual solicited AE assessed as causally related to vaccination. The verbatim reports of 
unsolicited  AEs  were  reviewed  by  a  physician  and  the  signs  and  symptoms  were  coded 
according to MedDRA. Every verbatim term was matched with the appropriate preferred term 
(PT). 
The percentage of subjects with unsolicited AEs occurring within the 31-days follow-up period 
after  any  dose  with  its  exact  95%  CI  was  tabulated  by  PT.  Similar  tabulations  were  done  for 
unsolicited  AEs  rated  as  Grade  “3”  and  for  those  with  causal  relationship  to  vaccination.  The 
percentage  of  subjects  who  received  at  least  one  concomitant  medication  during  the  8-day 
(Day 0-Day 7) solicited follow-up period was tabulated by type of medication, with exact 95% 
CI. Similar tabulations were done for subjects who received concomitant medication during the 
entire PMS period. SAEs reported during the PMS period were to be described in detail. 
  Results 
  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 332 subjects were enrolled of which 272 completed the PMS. None of the withdrawals 
was considered causally related to the vaccine. The mean age of the subjects in the TVC at Dose 1 
was 10.4 weeks (range: 5 weeks to 23 weeks) and at Dose 2 was 15.6 weeks (range: 10 weeks to 
29 weeks). The subjects were predominantly of “Asian - Central/South Asian heritage (58.1%); 
53.3% of the subjects were male and 46.7 % of the subjects were female. 
Table 1: Number of subjects vaccinated, completed and withdrawn with reason for 
withdrawal (Total vaccinated cohort) 
Rotarix 
P46 063 
Page 4/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
HRV= Human rotavirus vaccine 
Vaccinated= number of subjects who were vaccinated in the study 
Completed= number of subjects who completed last study visit 
Withdrawn= number of subjects who did not come for the last visit 
*Reasons for Others are described in text. 
Most  of  the  subjects  (21.5%  and  18.4%)  received  diphtheria,  tetanus,  pertussis,  hepatitis  B, 
inactivated poliovirus and Haemophilus influenzae type b (DTPa+IPV+Hib) vaccine along with Dose 
1 and Dose 2 of Rotarix vaccine, respectively. 17.0% also received Haemophilus influenzae type b 
(Hib) vaccine between Dose 1 and Dose 2. 
  Safety results 
The percentage of subjects reporting any AE (solicited or unsolicited) during the 8-day (Day 0-Day 
7) follow-up period was 39.5%. 
The  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  any  AEs  (solicited  or  unsolicited)  rated  as  Grade  “3”  in 
intensity  during  the  8-day  (Day  0-Day  7)  follow-up  period  was  9.0%  and  those  assessed  as 
causally related to vaccination was 8.1%. 
Primary endpoint: 
  The  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  Grade  “2”  or  Grade  “3”  solicited  AEs  (fever, 
vomiting, and diarrhoea) during the 8-day (Day 0-Day 7) follow-up period was 12.7%. 
Secondary endpoints: 
Solicited general AEs: 
 
Irritability was the most frequently reported solicited AE after each dose; reported for 
23.0% and 13.2% of subjects following Dose 1 and Dose 2, respectively. 
  The  most  frequently  reported  Grade  “3”  solicited  AE  was  vomiting  in  4.5%  of  the 
subjects following Dose 1 and Irritability in 1.1% of the subjects following Dose 2. 
  The most frequently reported solicited AE with a causal relationship to vaccination was 
vomiting,  in  3.0%  of  the  subjects  following  Dose  1.and  fever  in1.8%  of  the  subjects 
following Dose 2. 
Unsolicited AEs: 
  The percentage of subjects reporting at least one unsolicited AE during the 31-day 
(Day 0-Day 30) follow-up period was 6.9%. 
  Grade “3” unsolicited AEs (nasopharyngitis and rhinorrhoea) were reported for 1 
subject during the 31-day (Day 0–Day 30) follow-up period. 
  Unsolicited AEs with causal relationship to vaccination were reported for 0.6% of 
subjects during the 31-day (Day 0–Day 30) follow-up period. 
Serious adverse events: 
  No SAEs were reported in this study. 
Withdrawals due to adverse events /serious adverse events: 
Rotarix 
P46 063 
Page 5/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  Two subjects were withdrawn from the study due to non serious AE (diarrhoea). The 
AEs were not considered to be causally related to vaccination by the investigator. 
113552 (Rota-073): Phase I, double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled study to evaluate 
the reactogenicity and safety of a single oral dose of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals’ live  
ttenuated  liquid  human  rotavirus  (HRV)  vaccine  in  healthy  children  aged  2  to  6  years  in 
China. 
  Methods 
  Objective(s) 
Primary: 
  To assess the reactogenicity of a single oral dose of GSK Biologicals’ liquid HRV vaccine 
when compared to placebo group, in terms of solicited adverse events (AEs) in healthy 
children aged 2 to 6 years. 
Secondary: 
  To assess the safety of a single oral dose of GSK Biologicals’ liquid HRV vaccine when 
compared  to  placebo  group,  in  terms  of  unsolicited  AEs  and  serious  adverse  events 
(SAEs) in healthy children aged 2 to 6 years. 
  Study design 
Phase I, double-blind, randomised (1:1), placebo-controlled study with two parallel groups: 
  HRV vaccine group (henceforth referred to as HRV  group): subjects received a single dose  of 
the liquid HRV vaccine at Day 0 (N=25). 
  Placebo group: subjects received a single dose of the placebo at Day 0 (N=25). 
All  subjects  were  allowed  to  receive  routine  childhood  vaccinations  according  to  the  local 
immunization  practice,  including  diphtheria  and  tetanus  toxoids  vaccine  [DT],  diphtheria,  tetanus 
and  acellular  pertussis  vaccine  [DTPa],  diphtheria,  tetanus  and  whole-cell  pertussis  vaccine 
[DTPw],  hepatitis  A  vaccine  [HepA],  Japanese  encephalitis  vaccine  [JapEnc],  meningococcal 
serogroup  A  vaccine  [MenA],  meningococcal  serogroup  A  and  serogroup  C  vaccine  [MenAC], 
measles and mumps vaccine [MM], measles, Mumps and rubella vaccine [MMR] and oral poliovirus 
vaccine [OPV]). No blood samples were collected in this study. 
  Study population /Sample size 
XIV. 
Healthy male and female subjects of Chinese ethnicity aged between, and including 2 and 6 
years  at  the  time  of  vaccination.  Written  informed  consent  was  obtained  from  the  parents  or 
Legally Acceptable Representatives (LARs) of each subject. 
XV. 
 
Treatments 
Subjects in the HRV group received a single oral dose of the liquid HRV vaccine. Each 1.5 mL dose 
of GSK  Biologicals’ liquid HRV vaccine  contained  at least 106.0  median Cell  Culture  Infective  Dose 
(CCID50)  of  RIX4414  HRV  strain,  2.26  mg  of  Dulbecco's  Modified  Eagle  Medium  (DMEM),  132.74 
mg of Di-sodium Adipate and 55% of sucrose (w/w). 
Subjects in the placebo group received a single oral dose of the placebo. Each 1.5 mL dose of GSK 
Biologicals’  placebo  for  liquid  HRV  vaccine  contained  2.26  mg  of  DMEM,  132.74  mg  of  Di-sodium 
Adipate and 55% of sucrose (w/w). 
  Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint 
  Occurrence of each solicited AE within the 8-day (Day 0-Day 7) follow-up period after the 
liquid HRV vaccine/placebo dose. 
Rotarix 
P46 063 
Page 6/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints 
  Occurrence  of  unsolicited  AEs  within  31-day  (Day  0-Day  30)  follow-up  period  after  the 
liquid  HRV  vaccine/placebo  dose  according  to  the  Medical  Dictionary  for  Regulatory 
Activities (MedDRA) classification. 
  Occurrence of SAEs throughout the study period following the HRV vaccine/placebo dose. 
  Statistical Methods 
XVI. 
Analysis of demographics/baseline characteristics 
XVII. 
The mean, range and standard deviation (SD) of age in years, height in cm, weight in kg at 
Visit  1  were  calculated  per  group  and  overall.  The  racial  and  gender  composition  per  group 
were presented. 
XVIII. 
Analysis of safety 
XIX. 
XX. 
Analyses  were  performed  on  the  TVC.  The  overall  incidence,  with  exact  95%  confidence 
interval  (CI),  of  any  solicited  AEs  during  the  8-day  (Day  0-Day  7)  follow-up  period  after 
vaccination  was  tabulated.  The  same  calculations  were  done  for  any  solicited  AEs  rated  as 
grade “3” and for those assessed as causally related to vaccination. The overall incidence, with 
exact  95%  CI,  of  any  AEs  (solicited  or  unsolicited)  during  the  8-day  (Day  0-Day  7)  solicited 
follow-up period after vaccination was tabulated. The same calculations were done for any AEs 
(solicited  or  unsolicited)  rated  as  grade  “3”  and  for  those  assessed  as  causally  related  to 
vaccination.  Note:  Intensity  of  fever  was  assessed  by  considering  the  grading  scales 
recommended by the Chinese authorities as well as  GSK Biologicals. Analysis for each intensity 
grading scale was performed separately. 
The incidence,  with exact  95% CI,  of  each individual  solicited AEs,  was calculated, over the 
follow-up period after vaccination. The same calculations were done for each individual solicited 
AEs  rated  as  grade  “3”  and  those  assessed  as  causally  related  to  vaccination.  The  verbatim 
reports  of  unsolicited  AEs  were  reviewed  by  a  physician  and  the  signs  and  symptoms  were 
coded according to MedDRA. Every verbatim term was matched with the appropriate Preferred 
Term (PT). The percentage of subjects with unsolicited AEs occurring within 31-day (Day 0-Day 
30)  follow-up  period  after  vaccination  with  its  exact  95%  CI  was  tabulated  by  System  Organ 
Class (SOC) and PT. Similar tabulation was done for unsolicited AEs rated as grade “3” and for 
those with causal relationship to vaccination. 
XXI. 
The percentage of subjects who received  at least one concomitant medication during the 8-
day  (Day  0-Day  7)  solicited  follow-up  period  after  vaccination  was  tabulated  by  type  of 
medication,  with  exact  95%  CI.  Similar  tabulations  were  done  for  subjects  who  receive 
concomitant medication during the study period. 
XXII. 
SAEs reported during study period were to be described in detail. 
  Results 
  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
The mean age of the subjects in the TVC was 3.8 years (range: 2 years to 5 years) at the time 
of  vaccination.  All  subjects  were  of  Chinese  origin  and  50.0%  of  the  subjects  were  male  and 
50.0% were female. The mean height of the subjects was 101.3 cm (range: 89.0 cm to 114.0 
cm) and mean weight of the subjects was 16.4 kg (range: 13.0 kg to 22.0 kg) 
  Safety results 
At least one AE (solicited and unsolicited) was reported for 56.0% of the subjects in the HRV 
group  and  for  52.0%  of  the  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  during  the  8-day  (Day  0-Day  7) 
solicited follow-up period after vaccination. 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  the  report  of  at  least  one  solicited  AE  was  52.0%  in  each 
group during the 8-day (Day 0-Day 7) follow-up period after vaccination. 
8.0% of the subjects in the HRV group and for 4.0% of the subjects in placebo group reported 
at least one AE (solicited and unsolicited) with causal relationship to vaccination, as assessed 
by the investigator. 
Rotarix 
P46 063 
Page 7/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Cough was the most frequently reported solicited general AE during the 8-day (Day 0-Day 7) 
follow-up period after vaccination. It was reported for 40.0% of the subjects in the HRV group 
and for 48.0% of the subjects in the placebo group. 
Grade  3  diarrhoea  was  reported  for  1  subject  (4.0%)  in  the  placebo  group.  None  of  the 
subjects in the HRV group were reported for any Grade 3 AEs during the 8-day (Day 0-Day 7) 
follow-up period after vaccination. 
Diarrhoea  was  reported  for  one  subject  (4.0%)  in  the  HRV  group,  which  was  considered 
causally  related  to  the  vaccination  by  the  investigator.  In  the  Placebo  group,  cough  was 
reported  for  one  subject  (4.0%)  and  fever  was  reported  for  one  subject  (4.0%)  which  were 
both considered  causally related to  the  vaccination by the investigator during the 8-day (Day 
0-Day 7) follow-up period after vaccination. 
Unsolicited AEs 
The percentage of subjects with the report of at least one unsolicited AE classified by MedDRA 
SOC  was  44.0%  [95%  CI:  24.4%;  65.1%]  in  the  HRV  group  and  52.0%  [95%  CI:  31.3%; 
72.2%] in the placebo group during the 31-day (Day 0-Day 30) post vaccination period. 
SAEs 
None  of  the  subjects  experienced  any  SAEs  and  there  were  no  fatal  cases  reported  in  the 
study. 
Withdrawals due to (S)AEs 
None of the subjects were withdrawn due to an AE or an SAE during the course of the study. 
Concomitant medication/ vaccination 
The percentage of the subjects who were given any concomitant medication during the 8-day 
(Day 0-Day 7) follow-up  period after  vaccination  was 28% in  the  HRV  group and 20% in the 
placebo group. 
3. Discussion on clinical aspects 
Study 112896 (Rota-071 PMS) 
This  PMS  study  was  conducted  in  India  to  evaluate  the  reactogenicity  and  safety  of  two  oral 
doses of Rotarix when given to healthy infants aged between 6 to 24 weeks. 
Results  showed  that,  vomiting  was  the  most  frequently  reported  Grade  “3”  solicited  AE  in  this 
study, similar to that observed in the clinical trial conducted in India. Incidences of at least one 
Grade  “2”  or  Grade  “3”  fever,  vomiting  or  diarrhoea  within  the  8-day  follow-up  period  lay  at 
12.7%  of  the  subjects  and  the  incidence  of  at  least  one  unsolicited  symptom  within  31-day 
follow-up period was seen in 6.9%. These results were similar to those observed in another PMS 
conducted in the same geographic region. 
Peak incidences for diarrhoea, fever and vomiting during the 8-day (Day 0-Day 7) follow-up after 
any doses were absent. Furthermore, no IS cases,fatalities or ,other SAEs were reported. 
Overall, the two-dose vaccination course of Rotarix was well tolerated in healthy Indian infants. 
The safety and reactogenicity data of Rotarix reported in this study was in line with the existing 
safety profile of the vaccine. 
Study 113552 (Rota-073) 
Adhering  to  the  requirements  of  Chinese  regulatory  authorities  and  in  order  to  support  the 
licensure of the GSK Biologicals’ liquid HRV vaccine in China, it was necessary to conduct a Phase 
I safety study in older children prior to conducting a study in the targeted infant population. 
Thus, this study was conducted to collect reactogenicity and safety data of a single dose of liquid 
HRV vaccine in children aged 2-6 years. 
Rotarix 
P46 063 
Page 8/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
In this study, the reactogenicity and safety profile of the liquid HRV vaccine showed to be similar 
to that of the placebo in terms of solicited AEs and unsolicited AEs, with the liquid HRV vaccine 
being well tolerated in the age group of 2-6 years and no reports of any SAEs or fatal cases. The 
results  of  this  study  will  support  in  the  conduct  of  further  clinical  studies  with  the  liquid  HRV 
vaccine in the infant population in China. 
4. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
Both studies, submitted in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, showed that 
the live attenuated rotavirus vaccine had a favourable safety profile. Neither of the two studies led the 
assessor to believe that there are any signals which would lead to a revision of the product’s 
risk/benefit ratio, nor to an amendment of the safety information currently present in the vaccine’s 
SmPC. 
  Recommendation 
No further action required. 
5. 
REQUEST FOR SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 
Not applicable 
Rotarix 
P46 063 
Page 9/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
