12 March 2015 
EMA/170499/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Rotarix 
rotavirus vaccine, live 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000639 
P46  059 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
The study is a placebo-controlled randomized controlled trial on the efficacy of the rotavirus vaccine.  
The primary  objective of the study is to determine if two doses of the lyophilised formulation of GSK 
Biologicals’  HRV  vaccine  can  prevent  any  RV  GE  leading  to  a  medical  intervention  and  caused  by  the 
circulating wild-type RV strains during the efficacy follow-up period. 
Secondary objectives include: 
Efficacy 
•  To  assess  the  efficacy  of  two  doses  of  the  lyophilized  formulation  of  GSK  Biologicals’  HRV  vaccine 
against  severe  RV  GE  leading  to  a  medical  intervention  and  caused  by  the  circulating  wild-type  RV 
strains during the efficacy follow-up period. 
•  To  assess  the  efficacy  of  two  doses  of  the  lyophilized  formulation  of  GSK  Biologicals’  HRV  vaccine 
against any RV GE and severe RV GE leading to a medical intervention and caused by the circulating 
wild-type RV strains of G1 serotype during the efficacy follow-up period. 
•  To  assess  the  efficacy  of  two  doses  of  the  lyophilized  formulation  of  GSK  Biologicals’  HRV  vaccine 
against any RV GE and severe RV GE leading to a medical intervention and caused by the circulating 
wild-type RV strains of non-G1 serotypes during the efficacy follow-up period. 
•  To  assess  the  efficacy  of  two  doses  of  the  lyophilized  formulation  of  GSK  Biologicals’  HRV  vaccine 
against hospitalisation due to RV GE caused by the circulating wild-type RV strains during the efficacy 
follow-up period. 
• To assess vaccine efficacy against any RV GE and severe RV GE leading to a medical intervention and 
caused by the circulating wild-type RV strains during the period starting from Dose 1 up to Visit 5. 
Safety and reactogenicity 
• To assess the reactogenicity of two doses of the lyophilised formulation of GSK Biologicals’ HRV 
vaccine compared with placebo in terms of solicited symptoms. 
•  To  assess  the  safety  of  two  doses  of  the  lyophilized  formulation  of  GSK  Biologicals’  HRV  vaccine 
compared  with  placebo  in  terms  of  unsolicited  adverse  events  (AEs)  (31  days  after  each  dose)  and 
serious adverse events (SAEs) during the entire course of the study. 
Immunogenicity [in the immunogenicity subset (N = 60)] 
• To explore the immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ HRV vaccine in terms of serum anti-rotavirus IgA 
antibody concentrations one month after the second study vaccine dose. 
Quality appraisal of the study 
1.  The study addresses an appropriate and clearly focused question. 
2.  The assignment of subjects to treatment groups was randomized, in a 2:1 ratio. 
3.  An  adequate  concealment  method  was  used,  with  an  internet  based  randomization  scheme 
using a computer generated list. 
4.  Subjects  and  investigators  were  kept  blind  about  treatment  allocation.    However,  there  is  no 
mention of whether the treating physicians were kept blind (risk for contamination?). 
Rotarix 
P46 059 
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5.  The treatment and control groups appear similar at the start of the trial for age, gender, race, 
height  and  weight;  although  no  formal  statistical  testing  was  performed.  Other  important 
variables, such as the presence of siblings, are not reported. 
It is unclear whether the only difference between groups is the treatment under investigation, 
as  there  is  very  limited  information  on  concomitant  treatments  except  concomitant  and 
intermittent vaccinations, and there is uncertainty on the blinding of the treating physicians. In 
addition, subjects taking a drug or vaccine other than the study vaccine  were  included in the 
total  vaccinated  cohort  analysis,  but  were  removed  from  the  according  to  protocol  analyses. 
However, table 13 makes no mention of such removals, making it very unlikely all other drugs 
were recorded. 
6.  Have all relevant outcomes been measured in a standard, valid and reliable way? The primary 
outcome  was  measured  by  active  follow-up  for  occurrence  of  GE  leading  to  medical 
intervention  by  contact  of  study  personnel  with  each  subject’s  parent/guardian  every  two 
weeks. For each GE episode leading to medical intervention occurring during the study period, 
a GE diary card was completed by the parents/guardians daily until end of the GE symptoms. 
Information on all medical attention obtained related to this GE leading to medical intervention 
was recorded on the same card. The completed diary cards were returned to the investigator 
at  the  following  study  visit.  Medical  attention  (medical  doctor  visit,  emergency  room  visit  or 
hospitalisation) was also recorded for each GE episode. 
The information collected on the GE diary card allowed the assessment of the intensity of each 
GE  episode  using  the  Vesikari  scale,  a  20-point  scoring  system.  Points  were  assigned  at  GSK 
Biologicals according to duration and intensity of diarrhoea and vomiting, the intensity of fever, 
use of rehydration therapy or hospitalisation for each episode of GE. Based on a table detailing 
how this scale was used, it is unclear how a score of <7 can be obtained, as the scale consists 
of 7 items and the minimum score is 1 (and for dehydration the minimum score is 2). A total 
score of <7 can only be possible if 0 is assigned to items in case they are absent. 
Stool  samples  were  collected  for  each  GE  episode  leading  to  medical  intervention.  Samples 
were  then  tested  at  GSK  Biologicals  using  Enzyme  Linked  immunosorbent  assay  (ELISA)  to 
detect RV. If positive, the sample was tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to determine 
the G and the P genotypes. If any G1 RV was detected, vaccine virus was differentiated from 
the  wild  type  serotype  by  Reverse  Transcriptase  Polymerase  Chain  Reactions  (RT-PCR) 
followed by reverse hybridisation assay or an equivalent approach. 
For  the  secondary  objectives,  serum  obtained  from  whole  blood  samples  collected  from 
subjects  in  the  immunogenicity  subset  at  Visit  1  and  Visit  3  were  tested  by  ELISA  at  GSK 
Biologicals’  central  laboratory  to  measure  serum  anti-rotavirus  IgA  antibody  concentrations. 
The  assay  cut-off  was  20  U/mL.  Adverse  events  were  solicited  by  asking  the  following 
question:  "Has  your  child  acted  differently  or  felt  different  in  any  way  since  receiving  the 
vaccine  or  since  the  last  visit?".  Adverse    events  were  then  followed-up  and  assessed  for 
intensity, causality and outcome. 
Although the measurement of the outcomes is standardized, it is surprising to find a difference 
in  the  proportion  of  stool  samples  that  were  analysed  for  RV  between  the  vaccine  group  and 
the placebo group: stool analysis results were not available for 23 (7.3%) GE episodes in the 
HRV  group  and  for  6  (3.5%)  GE  episodes  in  the  placebo  group  because  stool  samples  were 
either not tested or not collected. 
7.  What percentage of the individuals or clusters recruited into each treatment arm of the study 
dropped out before the study was completed? 
17/508 withdrawals in vaccine group, 11/257 withdrawals in placebo group 
8.  All  the  subjects  are  analyzed  in  the  groups  to  which  they  were  randomly  allocated  (often 
referred to as intention to treat analysis) 
Analyses are carried out on an according to protocol (ATP) and on the total vaccinated cohort. 
The latter does not constitute a true intention to treat analysis as it only comprises all subjects 
enrolled and vaccinated (and not those enrolled either vaccinated or not). 
Rotarix 
P46 059 
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The ATP cohort for efficacy included all subjects: 
• who received two doses of HRV vaccine or placebo, 
• who entered the efficacy surveillance period: 
− had follow-up beyond 2 weeks after Dose 2 of study vaccination, 
• who had no rotavirus other than vaccine strain in GE stool samples collected between the day 
of Dose 1 and 2 weeks after Dose 2 of HRV vaccine or placebo, 
• for whom the randomisation code was not broken, 
• who did not receive a vaccine forbidden by or not specified in the protocol. 
ATP cohort for safety 
The ATP cohort for safety included all vaccinated subjects: 
• who received at least one dose of HRV vaccine or placebo, 
• for whom the randomisation code was not broken, 
• who did not receive a vaccine forbidden by or not specified in the protocol. 
Elimination criteria: these children were excluded from the according-to-protocol analyses: 
• Use of any investigational or non-registered product (drug or vaccine) other than the study 
vaccine during the study period. 
•  Chronic  administration  (defined  as  more  than  14  days)  of  immunosuppressants  during  the 
study period (Inhaled and topical steroids were allowed). 
• Administration of immunoglobulin and/or any blood products during the study period. 
•  Any  confirmed  or  suspected  immunosuppressive  or  immunodeficient  condition  based  on 
medical history and physical examination (no laboratory testing was required). 
9.  Where the study is carried out at more than one site, results are comparable for all sites: no 
information available. 
In  conclusion,  this  is  a  RCT  with  adequate  concealment  of  allocation  and  blinding  of  patients  and 
assessors. However, there is an unexplained difference in the proportion of stool samples analysed for 
rotavirus.  This  difference  leads  to  an  increase  of  the  efficacy  of  the  vaccine,  thus  resulting  in  biased 
results. 
Results  
TOTAL VACCINATED COHORT 
During the period from Dose 1 up to the data lock point, a total of 207 subjects (40.7%) in the vaccine 
group and 108 subjects ( 42.0%) in the placebo group reported any GE. 
Any  RV  GE  caused  by  wild-type  RV  leading  to  medical  intervention  occurred  in  1.8%  in  the  vaccine 
group compared to 10.1% in the placebo group ( p-value <0.001). Vaccine efficacy against any RV GE 
caused by wild-type RV leading to medical intervention was 82.5% [95% CI: 61.4%; 92.8%]. 
Severe GE was recorded in 9.4% of subjects in the vaccine group compared to 12.5% in the placebo 
group (no p-value provided). 
Rotarix 
P46 059 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Severe  RV  GE  caused  by  wild-type  RV  leading  to  medical  intervention  occurred  in  0.2%  in  the  HRV 
group  compared  to  4.7%  in  the  placebo  group  (p-value  <0.001).  Vaccine  efficacy  against  severe  RV 
GE caused by wild-type RV leading to medical intervention was 95.8% [95% CI: 71.5%: 99.9%]. 
Only 1 hospitalisation due to RV GE in each group  was recorded in this  first  data-analysis (study still 
ongoing). 
ACCORDING TO PROTOCOL ANALYSES 
A total of 191 subjects (38.4%) from the HRV group and 100 subjects (40.0%) from the placebo group 
had report of at least one GE episode leading to medical intervention. 
Of all the GE episodes leading to medical intervention that were tested, rotavirus was detected in 9 GE 
episodes (1.8%) in the HRV group and 25 GE episodes (10.0%) in the placebo group. 
Significantly  fewer  subjects  in  the  HRV  group  reported  severe  RV  GE  leading  to  medical  intervention 
caused  by  circulating  wild-type  RV  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (0.2%  versus  4.4%,  p-value 
<0.001).  Vaccine  efficacy  against  severe  RV  GE  leading  to  medical  intervention  caused  by  circulating 
wild-type RV was 95.4% [95% CI: 68.6%; 99.9%]. 
When  the  GE  and  RV  GE  episodes  leading  to  medical  intervention  were  scored  using  the  20-point 
Vesikari  scale,  the  distribution  of  reported  GE  episodes  leading  to  medical  intervention  among  mild, 
moderate and severe intensity was similar in both groups but there were more cases rated as severe 
(≥11  points)  in  terms  of  RV  GE  episodes  in  the  placebo  group  (11  RV  GE  episodes  [44.0%])  as 
compared to the HRV group (1 RV GE episode [11.1%]) 
Adverse events (based on Total Vaccinated cohort) 
During  the  entire  study  period,  majority  of  the  SAEs  were  classified  under  SOC  MedDRA  PT  for 
“Bronchitis” (14 subjects in the HRV group and none in the placebo group), “Pneumonia” (12 subjects 
in the HRV group and 4 subjects in the placebo group) and  “Gastroenteritis” (11 subjects in the HRV 
group and 2 subjects in the placebo group). 
Conclusion: 
The  study  itself  is  relatively  small,  with  some  methodological  problems  mainly  the  difference  in  the 
proportion  of  verification of  stool  samples  between  the  vaccine  group  and  the  placebo  group  and  the 
uncertainty  on  whether  the  two  groups  had  any  concomitant  drugs  (such  as  anti-emetics,  stool 
cosmetics, etc). 
The trial is ongoing and the current results are to be considered preliminary. Only one hospitalization 
for RV GE occurred in each group. 
Rotarix 
P46 059 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
