EMA/474214/2020 
EMEA/H/C/004339 
Roteas (edoxaban) 
An overview of Roteas and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Roteas and what is it used for? 
Roteas is an anticoagulant medicine (a medicine that prevents blood clotting) used in adults: 
•
•
to prevent stroke (caused by blood clots in the brain) and systemic embolism (blood clots in other
organs) in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (irregular rapid contractions of the upper
chambers of the heart). It is used in patients who have one or more risk factors, such as high
blood pressure, diabetes, heart failure, having had a stroke or being 75 years old or over;
to treat deep-vein thrombosis (DVT, a blood clot in a deep vein, usually in the leg) and pulmonary
embolism (a clot in a blood vessel supplying the lungs), and to prevent DVT and pulmonary
embolism from re-occurring.
Roteas contains the active substance edoxaban. 
This medicine is the same as Lixiana, which is already authorised in the European Union (EU). The 
company that makes Lixiana has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Roteas (‘informed 
consent’). 
How is Roteas used? 
Roteas is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a prescription. The usual dose is 60 mg 
once a day but doses may be adjusted for kidney function, low body weight or in those who are also 
taking certain medicines (known as P-gp inhibitors) that can interfere with the removal of edoxaban 
from the body. Dose adjustments may also need to be made in patients who are switched between 
Roteas and other anticoagulant medicines. Treatment is continued while the benefit outweighs the risk 
of bleeding, which depends on the condition being treated and any existing risk factors. For more 
information about using Roteas, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Roteas work? 
The active substance in Roteas, edoxaban, is a ‘factor Xa inhibitor’. This means that it blocks factor Xa, 
an enzyme that is involved in the production of thrombin. Thrombin is essential for blood clotting. By 
blocking factor Xa, the medicine reduces the levels of thrombin in the blood, which helps treat clots 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
and reduce the risk of them forming in the arteries and veins and leading to DVT, pulmonary 
embolism, stroke or other organ damage. 
What benefits of Roteas have been shown in studies? 
Roteas has been shown to be as effective as the standard anticoagulant warfarin in preventing stroke 
and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation. The effects were studied in one main study, 
which involved over 21,000 patients for an average of 2.5 years. The main measure of effectiveness 
was the rate of stroke or systemic embolism among the patients each year. A first systemic embolism 
or stroke occurred in around 1.2% of those given standard doses of Roteas and 1.5% of those given 
warfarin respectively. When another recommended definition of the type of stroke was used, embolism 
or stroke due to blood clots was seen in 0.9% of patients given Roteas  and 1% of those given 
warfarin. There was a trend for better results in patients with reduced kidney function than those 
whose kidney function was normal. 
In the treatment and prevention of blood clots in patients with DVT or pulmonary embolism, Roteas 
was also found to be as effective as warfarin, in a study involving over 8,200 patients. The main 
measure of effectiveness was the number of patients who had another episode of DVT or pulmonary 
embolism during the study period. Further episodes were seen in 130 of 4,118 patients given 
edoxaban (3.2%) and in 146 of 4,122 given warfarin (3.5%). 
What are the risks associated with Roteas? 
The most common side effects with Roteas (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are  nose bleeds 
(epistaxis), blood in the urine (haematuria) and anaemia (low levels of red blood cells). Bleeding can 
occur at any site and can be severe or even fatal. For the full list of side effects of Roteas, see the 
package leaflet. 
Roteas must not be used in patients who are actively bleeding, have liver diseases that affect blood 
clotting, have severe uncontrolled high blood pressure or who have a condition putting them at 
significant risk of major bleeding. It must also not be used in pregnant or breastfeeding women or 
together with another anticoagulant. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Roteas authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Roteas’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The medicine has been shown to be at least as effective as warfarin in 
reducing stroke rates in patients with atrial fibrillation and in preventing further episodes of DVT or 
pulmonary embolism.  
With respect to safety, overall the risk of serious bleeding such as bleeding into the brain was reduced 
compared with warfarin, although there may be less difference where warfarin treatment is well 
managed. Although there was greater a risk of bleeding from the mucosa (tissues lining body cavities 
such as the nose, gut and vagina), the Agency considered that the risk could be managed with 
appropriate measures.  
Roteas (edoxaban)  
EMA/474214/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Roteas? 
The company that markets Roteas will provide educational materials for doctors prescribing the 
medicine and an alert card for patients, explaining the risks of bleeding with the medicine and how to 
manage them.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Roteas have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Roteas are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Roteas are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Roteas 
Roteas received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 April 2017. 
Further information on Roteas can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/roteas.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2020.  
Roteas (edoxaban)  
EMA/474214/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
