EMA/303481/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004936 
Rozlytrek (entrectinib) 
An overview of Rozlytrek and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rozlytrek and what is it used for? 
Rozlytrek is a cancer medicine. It can be used for treating patients from 12 years of age with solid 
tumours (cancer growths) that have a genetic abnormality called NTRK gene fusion. Rozlytrek is for 
use in patients with tumours that have spread nearby or to other parts of the body (metastatic cancer) 
or when removing the tumour by surgery could cause severe harm. It should be used only if the 
patient has not been treated previously with a medicine that works in the same way as Rozlytrek and 
other treatments are not suitable. 
Rozlytrek can also be used for treating adults with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer that has a 
genetic abnormality called ROS1 gene fusion. It should be used only if the patient has not been treated 
previously with a medicine that blocks ROS1. 
Rozlytrek contains the active substance entrectinib. 
How is Rozlytrek used? 
Rozlytrek can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who is 
experienced in the use of cancer medicines. It is available as capsules. 
The recommended dose of Rozlytrek for adults is 600 mg once daily. The dose for children is based on 
the child’s height and weight. Treatment with Rozlytrek is continued until it stops working. The doctor 
may reduce the dose, interrupt treatment or stop it altogether if the patient has certain side effects.  
For more information about using Rozlytrek, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Rozlytrek work? 
Cancers with NTRK gene fusion or ROS1 gene fusion produce abnormal proteins that cause 
uncontrolled increase of cancer cells. Entrectinib, the active substance in Rozlytrek, blocks the action of 
these proteins and so prevents the increase in cancer cells, thereby slowing down cancer growth. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Rozlytrek have been shown in studies? 
Solid tumours with NTRK gene fusion 
Ongoing studies involved a total of 74 adults with advanced solid tumours with NTRK gene fusion in 
whom previous treatment had stopped working or other treatment was not suitable. Patients received 
Rozlytrek until it stopped working or caused unacceptable side effects. Out of a total of 74 patients, the 
cancer shrank in 64% of patients and the average duration of response (period during which the size 
of the cancer was under control) was 12.9 months. Rozlytrek was not compared with another 
treatment for solid tumours. 
Supporting studies indicate that the medicine is expected to work in the same way in patients from 12 
years of age. 
Non-small-cell lung cancer with ROS1 gene fusion 
Studies involved a total of 94 patients with advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer with 
ROS1 gene fusion. Patients were followed up for more than 12 months and they received Rozlytrek 
until it stopped working or caused unacceptable side effects. The cancer shrank in 73% of patients and 
the average duration of response was 16.5 months. The studies did not compare Rozlytrek with 
another treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer.  
What are the risks associated with Rozlytrek? 
The most common side effects with Rozlytrek (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are 
tiredness, constipation, dysgeusia (taste disturbances), oedema (swelling with fluid retention), 
dizziness, diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), dysaesthesia (unpleasant and abnormal feeling when 
touched), dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), anaemia (low red blood cell count), increased weight, 
increased blood creatinine (possible sign of kidney problems), pain, cognitive disorders (problems with 
ability to think, learn and remember), vomiting, cough, and fever. 
The most common serious side effects with Rozlytrek (which may affect more than 1 in 50 people) are 
lung infection, dyspnoea, cognitive disorders and pleural effusion (build-up of fluid around the lungs). 
For the full list of restrictions and side effects of Rozlytrek, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Rozlytrek authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that in patients with solid tumours with NTRK gene fusion, 
treatment with Rozlytrek is of benefit when other treatment is not available or does not work. 
However, more information is needed on the medicine's effect on tumours in different sites and also 
when other gene abnormalities are present. For non-small-cell lung cancer with ROS1 gene fusion, 
results currently available suggest that treatment with Rozlytrek can reduce the size of tumours. The 
side effects of Rozlytrek are considered manageable.  
Therefore, the Agency decided that Rozlytrek’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. Rozlytrek has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that 
there is more evidence to come about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every 
year, the Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be 
updated as necessary. 
Rozlytrek (entrectinib)  
EMA/303481/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What information is still awaited for Rozlytrek? 
Since Rozlytrek has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Rozlytrek will 
provide further data from ongoing studies on the effectiveness and safety of Rozlytrek in adults and 
children who have solid tumours with NTRK gene fusion. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rozlytrek? 
The company that markets Rozlytrek will provide results from a study comparing the effectiveness of 
Rozlytrek with crizotinib (another cancer medicine) in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer with 
ROS1 fusion whose disease has spread to the brain. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rozlytrek have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rozlytrek are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Rozlytrek are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Rozlytrek 
Rozlytrek received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 July 2020. 
Further information on Rozlytrek can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/rozlytrek.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2020. 
Rozlytrek (entrectinib)  
EMA/303481/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
