24 May 2018 
EMA/272157/2018 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Rubraca (rucaparib) 
Treatment of ovarian cancer 
EU/3/12/1049 (EMA/OD/085/12) 
Sponsor: Clovis Oncology UK Limited 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage .......................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 12 April 2018 ............................................... 12 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
Rucaparib 
Rucaparib 
Treatment of ovarian cancer 
Film-coated tablet 
Oral use 
L01XX55 
Sponsor’s details: 
Clovis Oncology UK Limited 
Sheraton House 
Castle Park 
Cambridge CB3 0AX 
United Kingdom 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Clovis Oncology UK Limited 
5 September 2012 
10 October 2012 
EU/3/12/1049 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
A. Sancho-Lopez, G. Markey 
Clovis Oncology UK Limited 
1 November 2016 
24 November 2016 
EMA/H/C/004272 
Rubraca 
Rubraca is indicated as monotherapy treatment of 
adult patients with platinum sensitive, relapsed or 
progressive, BRCA mutated (germline and/or somatic), 
high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary 
peritoneal cancer, who have been treated with two or 
more prior lines of platinum based chemotherapy, and 
who are unable to tolerate further platinum based 
chemotherapy. 
Further information on Rubraca can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports.  
CHMP opinion date 
22 March 2018 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
B. Bloechl-Daum, F. Naumann-Winter 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
7 February 2017 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
30-31 October 2017 
questions  
Oral explanation  
COMP opinion date 
14 March 2018 
12 April 2018 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2012 was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
ovarian cancer (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting not more 
than 2.1 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time the application was made; this was 
based on data derived from Globocan and Eurocare; this is not more than 5 in 10,000 persons as 
established in Article 3(1) (a) of Regulation (EC) 141/2000; 
the sponsor has provided satisfactory argumentation to establish that the condition is chronically 
debilitating, in particular due to abdominal pain or discomfort, an abdominal mass, bloating, back 
pain, urinary urgency, constipation, tiredness and a range of other non-specific symptoms, as well 
as more specific symptoms such as pelvic pain, abnormal vaginal bleeding or involuntary weight 
loss. There can be a build-up of fluid (ascites) in the abdominal cavity. The life threatening nature 
of the condition is associated with the fact that most patients with ovarian cancer have widespread 
disease at presentation.  This may be partly explained by the relatively early spread of high grade 
papillary serous cancers to the rest of the peritoneal cavity. Five year survival in Europe has been 
estimated to be 40%; 
• 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, sufficient justification has been provided that rucaparib may be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. This appears justified in particular with regards to a potential 
clinically relevant advantage based on preliminary clinical data where patients with the BRCA 
mutation as well as patients who are platinum resistant have shown clinical response. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Ovarian cancer (OC) is the seventh most commonly diagnosed cancer among women in the world. 
Epithelial OC is the most predominant pathologic subtype, with five major histotypes that differ in 
origination, pathogenesis, molecular alterations, risk factors, and prognosis. Genetic susceptibility is 
manifested by rare inherited mutations with high to moderate penetrance. Genome-wide association 
studies have additionally identified 29 common susceptibility alleles for OC, including 14 subtype-
specific alleles. Several reproductive and hormonal factors may lower risk, including parity, oral 
contraceptive use, and lactation, while others such as older age at menopause and hormone 
replacement therapy confer increased risks. These associations differ by histotype, especially for 
mucinous OC, likely reflecting differences in aetiology. 
Nearly all benign and malignant ovarian tumours originate from one of three cell types: epithelial cells, 
stromal cells, and germ cells. In developed countries, more than 90% of malignant ovarian tumours 
are epithelial in origin, 5%–6% of tumours constitute sex cord-stromal tumours (e.g., granulosa cell 
tumours, thecomas, etc.), and 2%–3% are germ cell tumours (e.g. teratomas, dysgerminomas, etc.).  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
About 90% of tumours are epithelial ovarian cancers that occur primarily in postmenopausal women. 
Germ cell tumours, which occur primarily in women in their early 20s, comprise 5% of tumours, and 
sex cord–stromal tumours, which secrete sex steroids and occur at any age (most commonly in a 
patient’s 50s), comprise the remainder. Early diagnosis when tumours are small and still confined to 
the ovaries is the most important prognostic factor. Only about 45% of women with ovarian cancer 
survive for five years or longer from the date of diagnosis. The five-year survival rate is 92% for 
women with stage I epithelial ovarian cancers but only 17% to 28% for those with advanced-stage 
tumours (DOUBENI C et al, American Family Physician Volume 93, Number 11 June 1, 2016, pg 937-
944).  
Epithelial OC reflects a heterogeneous disease with histologic subtypes (histotypes) that differ in their 
cellular origin, pathogenesis, molecular alterations, gene expression, and prognosis. Malignant OC, also 
known as carcinomas, are comprised of five main histotypes: high-grade serous (HGSOC; 70%), 
endometrioid (ENOC; 10%), clear cell (CCOC; 10%), mucinous (MOC; 3%), and low-grade serous 
(LGSOC; <5%).  
Rare high penetrant mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes greatly increase lifetime risk and 
account for the majority of hereditary cases and 10%–15% of all cases (Reid et al, Cancer Biol Med 
2017. doi: 10.20892). 
The orphan condition is considered to include fallopian and primary peritoneal cancer. 
The proposed therapeutic indication “Rubraca is indicated as monotherapy treatment of adult patients 
with platinum sensitive, relapsed or progressive, BRCA mutated (germline and/or somatic), high-grade 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, who have been treated with two or 
more prior lines of platinum based chemotherapy, and who are unable to tolerate further platinum 
based chemotherapy” falls within the scope of the designated orphan indication “treatment of ovarian 
cancer”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP the intention to treat the condition has been justified. The 
CHMP granted a conditional licence for this product. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The five-year net (relative) survival for all stages of ovarian cancer is 46%; the one-year net survival 
is 72% and the ten-year net survival is 35% (Statistics and outlook for ovarian cancer". 
www.cancerresearchuk.org. Archived from the original on 2015-05-18). In a recent publication by E.A. 
Eisenhauer (2017) it was noted that Malvezzi et al reported in 2016 that there was an overall decline in 
mortality rates with an EU mortality rate of 5.2 per 100,000 in 2012. The authors attribute the 
majority of the decline in mortality to changes in incidence rates through oral contraceptive use and, 
beginning about 10yrs ago, declines in menopausal hormone use.  
The improvement in the 5 year net survival rate in 2015 was modest at 46% versus the 30-40% noted 
in 2010 and ovarian cancer is in 2018 still a life-threatening disease 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has provided a prevalence calculation based on a bibliographical search. The publications 
used were focused primarily around the Globocan 2012 reporting of ovarian cancer and specifically by 
Ferlay et al 2013. There was no consultation of national registries or EUCAN or NORDCAN. The 
possibility of any change since the 2012 reporting was not discussed. In a recent publication from 2017 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
by Malvezzi et al it was noted that between 2002 and 2012 there had been a reduction in age-adjusted 
ovarian cancer mortality rates of 10%. The publication noted that the reduction was greater in young 
and middle-aged women than in the elderly and that this reduction was larger in the UK and Northern 
Europe. NORDCAN data between 2010 and 2014 showed a reduction in the age-adjusted incidence 
(Coburn S et al, Int. J. Cancer: 140, 2451–2460 (2017)). A similar drop in age-adjusted incidence was 
reported in Spain in 2015 (Galceran J et al, Clin Transl Oncol 2015). The sponsor initially proposed that 
the prevalence was 3 in 10,000. The COMP indicated that it was only interested in the crude data as an 
age-adjusted drop in mortality in younger women reasonably meant that there were more survivors of 
the best prognosis, and this could mean an increase in the prevalence. Following these considerations 
the sponsor submitted a revised prevalence calculation. 
The COMP discussed the validity of the revised prevalence calculation. In their discussion the sponsor 
indicated that the age-standardised incidence of ovarian cancer is dropping in Europe. The sponsor 
discussed two main sources namely the Globocan report of 2012 and the Rarecare report of 2010. 
Prevalence reported in Orphanet and from the SEER database in the US and GLOBOCAN 2012 US was 
used as well. The strengths and limitations of the Globocan and Rarecare data were discussed. The 
Globocan data were considered more current as these were published in 2012 and the Rarecare data 
were published in 2003.  
It was noted by the COMP that the Globocan 2012 data had to correct the estimates for fallopian and 
primary peritoneal cancers. The incidences and prevalence of this dataset span a period from 1990 to 
2009 and, although not the most current, were considered more robust that those of Rarecare, 
especially with respect to full prevalence.  
The COMP considered the use of Globocan rather than the Rarecare data, on the basis of wider 
coverage. The prevalence was revised upwards to 4.7/10,000 (initially 4.2 per 10,000) for the 
complete prevalence, using Globocan incidence multiplied by a duration of 5 years and correcting by a 
factor of 8.11% to account for fallopian and peritoneal cases. The latter comes in turn from SEER 
ratios. The COMP considered that a revised higher prevalence of 4.7 in 10,000 was probably closer to 
the current prevalence due to the limitations with the data collection period (between 1990 and 2009).  
The sponsor’s prevalence was then amended from 3 in 10,000 to 4.7 in 10,000 to include these 
assumptions by the COMP. By accepting this value the prevalence still falls within the limit of less than 
5/10000. The COMP therefore recommended granting the Maintenance of the Orphan Designation.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The sponsor has produced a comprehensive listing of products authorised for use in this condition. 
Please refer to the following table.
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
Table 1.   
Drug Name  
Tradename(s) 
EU-approved Indication  
ESMO Guideline 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Drugs approved via the Centralized Procedure 
Doxorubicin 
Caelyx® 
Advanced ovarian cancer after failure of first-line platinum-based chemo 
1st line as an alternative to paclitaxel, in 
OR 
(Caelyx); Advanced ovarian carcinoma (generic) 
combination with carboplatin 
2nd line in platinum-resistant/refractory 
setting as single agent 
2nd line in combination with carboplatin as 
an alternative to paclitaxel 
Topotecan 
Hycamtin®, 
Treatment of metastatic carcinoma of the ovary after failure of first-line 
2nd line in platinum-resistant/refractory 
RR, TTP, OS 
Potactasol® 
or subsequent therapy 
setting as single agent 
Trabectedin 
Yondelis® 
Treatment of platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer in combination 
2nd line in combination with PLD in partially 
PFS, OS 
with PEGylated liposomal doxorubicin 
platinum-sensitive population 
Targeted Therapies approved via the Centralized Procedure 
Bevacizumab  
Avastin® 
Front-line treatment of advanced epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or 
1st line in patients with poor prognostic 
PFS 
primary peritoneal in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel 
features in combination; continuous 
In combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine for treatment of adult 
patients with first recurrence of platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian, 
maintenance up to 1yr total treatment 
2nd line in platinum-sensitive setting in 
fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who have not received prior 
combination; continuous maintenance until 
therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF inhibitors or VEGF receptor–
targeted agents. 
progression 
2nd line in platinum-resistant setting in 
In combination with paclitaxel, topotecan, or pegylated liposomal 
combination; continuous maintenance until 
doxorubicin for the treatment of adult patients with platinum-resistant 
progression 
recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer 
who received no more than two prior chemotherapy regimens and who 
have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF 
inhibitors or VEGF receptor–targeted agents 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
Olaparib 
Lynparza® 
Monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with 
Patients with recurrent high-grade serous 
PFS 
platinum-sensitive relapsed BRCA-mutated (germline and/or somatic) 
ovarian cancer and a germline or tumor 
high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal 
BRCA mutation should be offered 
cancer who are in response (complete response or partial response) to 
maintenance olaparib after a response to 
platinum-based chemotherapy 
platinum-based chemotherapy 
Niraparib 
Zejula 
Zejula is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of 
Not referenced in guideline 
PFS 
adult patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed high grade serous 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in 
response (complete or partial) to platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Approved drugs available as a generic product 
Drug Name  
EU-approved Indication  
ESMO Guideline 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Carboplatin 
AT, BE, BG, CZ, CY, DE, DK, 
EE, ES, FI, FR, HU, IE, IS, 
IT, LT, LV, MT, NL, NO, PT, 
RO, SE, SK, UK  
Advanced ovarian carcinoma of epithelial origin in 1st line 
therapy or in 2nd line therapy, after other treatments have failed 
1st line; subsequent line, in combination 
N/A 
Cisplatin 
AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DE, DK, 
Single agent or combination for advanced or metastatic ovarian 
As an alternative to carboplatin where 
N/A 
EE, ES, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, 
carcinoma  
tolerability is an issue 
IT, LT, LU, LV, MT, NL, NO, 
PT, RO, SE, SK, UK 
Cyclo-
AT, BG, CY, CZ, EE, ES, FR, 
Single agent or combination for a wide range of neoplastic 
Not referenced in guideline 
N/A 
phosphamide 
DE, HU, IE, MT, PT, RO, SE, 
conditions including metastatic ovarian carcinoma 
SK, UK 
Epirubicin 
AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DE, DK, 
Wide range of neoplasms including advanced ovarian cancer  
Not referenced in guideline 
N/A 
EE, ES, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, 
IS, IT, LT, LU, LV, LT, MT, 
NL, NO, PT, RO, SE, SK, UK 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
Gemcitabine 
AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DE, DK, 
Locally advanced or metastatic epithelial ovarian carcinoma in 
2nd line in platinum-resistant/refractory 
N/A 
ES, FI, FR, EE, HU, IE, IS, 
combination with carboplatin in patients with relapsed disease 
IT, LV, LT, MT, NL, NO, PL, 
following recurrence-free interval of >6 months after platinum-
PT, RO, SE, SK, SI, UK 
based, first-line therapy  
setting as single agent 
2nd line in platinum-sensitive setting in 
combination with carboplatin as an 
alternative to paclitaxel 
Lomustine 
CZ, DE, DK, ES, FI, NL, RO, 
Wide range of neoplasms including second line treatment of 
Not referenced in guideline 
SE, SK, UK 
ovarian cancer 
Melphalan 
CZ, DE, DK, EE, ES, FI, FR, 
Single agent or combination for advanced ovarian cancer 
Not referenced in guideline 
N/A 
N/A 
IE, IS, LT, NL, NO, PT, RO, 
SE, SK, UK 
Methotrexate 
AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DK, EE, 
A number of neoplastic conditions including ovarian carcinoma  
Not referenced in guideline 
N/A 
ES, FI, FR, HU, IE, IS, LT, 
MT, NL, NO, PT, RO, SE, SK, 
UK 
Paclitaxel 
AT, BE, BG, CY, CZ, DE, DK, 
First-line treatment of advanced carcinoma of the ovary in 
ES, EE, FI, FR, HU, IE, IS, 
combination with cisplatin or carboplatin 
1st, 2nd line in combination 
2nd line in platinum-resistant/refractory 
N/A 
LV, LT, MT, NL, NO, PL, PT, 
Second-line treatment of metastatic carcinoma of the ovary 
setting as single agent 
RO, SE, SK, SI, UK 
after failure of standard, platinum containing therapy 
Treosulfan 
DE, DK, IE, NL, UK 
For the treatment of all types of ovarian cancer, either 
Not referenced in guideline 
N/A 
supplementary to surgery or palliatively 
PFS = progression-free survival 
OS = overall survival 
OR = overall response 
TTP = time to progression  
RR = response rate 
N/A = not applicable 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
The sponsor has discussed the current ESMO guidelines which date from 2013 and also referenced in 
the ESMO addendum.  
ESMO has updated the ovarian cancer treatment guideline regarding olaparib, a PARP inhibitor 
targeting BRCA positive ovarian cancer patients and recommending that “Patients with recurrent high-
grade serous ovarian cancer and a germline or tumour BRCA mutation should be offered maintenance 
olaparib after a response to platinum-based chemotherapy” ( eUpdate – Ovarian Cancer Treatment 
Recommendations, Published: 21 September 2016. Authors: J.A. Ledermann1, C. Sessa2 & N. 
Colombo3 on behalf of the ESMO Guidelines Committee). 
There are several national review documents on how to manage patient with ovarian cancer produced 
by the Member States (NICE, SEOM Clinical Guideline in Ovarian cancer 2016(Spain)).  
Significant benefit 
The sponsor has proposed a product which mode of action is expected to be most efficacious in 
patients with ovarian cancer who have the BRCA mutation (either genomic or somatic deleterious 
mutations). Rucaparib works as a PARP inhibitor and therefore has the same mode of action as 
olaparib and niraparib (as mentioned above) but in contrast to these treatments which are authorised 
for maintenance treatment in patients in response from previous treatment, rucaparib has shown to 
induce responses in relapsed and progressive disease.  
The final indication agreed with the CHMP in the setting of a conditional marketing approval was 
restricted to patients with platinum-sensitive disease unable to tolerate further platinum treatment.   
The applicant was asked to discuss the potential overlap of the target population of with other products 
authorised and used in this setting, i.e. other chemotherapeutic agents in order to confirm significant 
benefit. After first line failure platinum sensitive patients and platinum resistant patients are identified. 
For platinum sensitive patients there are well-established first and second relapse line treatments (1st 
line platinum with a taxane or platinum with gemcitabine or PEGylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
carboplatin gemcitabine or paclitaxel with bevacizumab followed by bevacizumab maintenance or in 
the case of BRCA mutated olaparib maintenance; 2nd line platinum based combination or clinical trial).  
The applicant used data from two individual open-label, single arm studies (Study 10 and ARIEL2). The 
data from the studies was pooled and the results were compared indirectly to what was considered as 
standard of care: either single agents normally reserved for platinum-resistant/refractory disease 
(paclitaxel, gemcitabine, topotecan or pegylated doxorubicin) or the combination treatment of 
trabectedin with pegylated doxorubicin. Of these regimen, the combination treatment of trabectedin 
and pegylated doxorubicin displays the highest efficacy, but is associated with substantial toxicity. 
Even though the patients included into the pivotal studies of rucaparib were more heavily pretreated 
compared to published data on the standard of care (ORR < 35%, PFS 4-9 months), treatment with 
rucaparib was associated with higher ORR (65%) and longer PFS (10.9 months). These results 
compare favourably to published results with the standard of care in view of an expected decrease of 
response to treatment with later lines. In addition, the adverse reactions of rucaparib were generally 
mild/moderate and manageable with standard supportive care. 
The Oncology SAG report acknowledged that there is a group of patients in whom platinum-containing 
regimes are contraindicated (e.g. allergy) as well as a group of patients who, having discussed 
preferred options, may refuse further platinum-containing treatment, including single agent 
carboplatin, due to expected toxicity. The SAG noted that the regimen considered to be associated with 
highest activity is the approved combination of trabectedin+PLD however this regimen was not often 
used due to the considerable toxicity. The SAG noted with all due caution in view of the uncertainties 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
associated with cross-trial comparison, that rucaparib is likely to have a more favourable toxicity 
profile compared to chemotherapy including trabectedin+liposomal doxorubicin.  
The COMP was of the opinion that although the data was very limited from the Study10 and Ariel 2 a 
significant benefit could be accepted for this niche indication of patients with ovarian cancer, fallopian 
tube and primary peritoneal cancer who are unable to tolerate further platinum therapy and for whom 
the other approved PARP-inhibitors are not indicated. The COMP was however of the opinion that the 
argument of a major contribution to patient care (oral vs intravenous administration ) alone was 
insufficient to support the confirmation of a significant benefit over all authorised treatments but it was 
contributing to the overall positive outcome [ in view of considerably reducing the burden of the 
promising treatment.] The basis of significant benefit was mainly considered a clinically relevant 
advantage based on safety for oral rucaparib on the grounds that rucaparib offers similar efficacy in 3rd 
line treatment of platinum sensitive patients who were allergic or no longer wished to receive platinum 
compared to intravenously administered trabectedin + PEGylated doxorubicin which was considered 
more toxic than rucaparib. Rucaparib offers a different safety profile than trabectedin+PLD, with 
important reductions in haematologic AEs and other relevant side effects. More specifically, the 
adverse reactions CTCAE Grade 3 or higher for anaemia, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were 
23%, 9% and 5% for rucaparib, as compared to 19%, 72% and 23% for the T+PLD respectively (see 
SmPCs). 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 12 April 2018 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of ovarian cancer (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be 4.7 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to pain, weight loss, ascites and vaginal 
bleeding, and life-threatening with approximately half of the patients surviving less than five years; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, it has been shown on the basis of indirect comparison that orally administered Rubraca 
offers a clinically relevant advantage for pretreated patients with platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer 
carrying deleterious BRCA mutations and who cannot tolerate further platinum therapy. 
Alternatively, these patients would either be receiving other less efficacious monotherapy 
treatments or intravenous combination therapy using trabectedin and PEGylated doxorubicin which 
shows comparable efficacy, but with lower tolerability. The COMP concluded on the totality of data 
that the assumption that Rubraca may be of potential significant benefit to those affected by 
ovarian cancer as defined in the granted therapeutic indication still holds.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Rubraca, rucaparib, 
EU/3/12/1049 for treatment of ovarian cancer is not removed from the Community Register of Orphan 
Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/272157/2018 
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
