EMA/469708/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004272 
Rubraca (rucaparib) 
An overview of Rubraca and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rubraca and what is it used for? 
Rubraca is a cancer medicine for treating high-grade cancers of the ovary, fallopian tubes (the tubes 
connecting the ovaries to the uterus) and the peritoneum (the membrane lining the abdomen). 
It is used as maintenance treatment in patients newly diagnosed with advanced cancer or in patients 
whose cancer has come back, and in whom the cancer has cleared (partially or completely) after 
treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Rubraca contains the active substance rucaparib. 
How is Rubraca used? 
Rubraca can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the treatment of cancer.  
Rubraca is available as tablets to be taken twice a day. Treatment should continue until the cancer 
progresses or the patient has unacceptable side effects, and no longer than 2 years for patients newly 
diagnosed with advanced cancer. Treatment with Rubraca should be started no later than 8 weeks 
after the patient has finished their treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy.  
For more information about using Rubraca, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Rubraca work? 
The active substance in Rubraca, rucaparib, blocks the activity of a family of proteins called poly(ADP-
ribose) polymerases (PARPs) that help to repair damaged DNA in cells (both normal and cancer cells). 
When PARP proteins are blocked, the damaged DNA in the cancer cells cannot be repaired and the cells 
die as a result. 
What benefits of Rubraca have been shown in studies? 
Rubraca was investigated in a main study of 564 patients with recurring ovarian cancer which had 
cleared (partially or completely) after treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients given 
Rubraca lived for 11 months without the disease coming back or getting worse compared with 5 
months in patients given placebo (a dummy treatment). 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
Another study looked at 538 patients with newly diagnosed advanced ovarian cancer which had cleared 
(partially or completely) after treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients given Rubraca 
lived for 20 months without the disease coming back or getting worse compared with 9 months in 
patients given placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Rubraca? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Rubraca, see the package leaflet.  
The most common side effects with Rubraca (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) include 
tiredness or weakness, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, anaemia (low red blood cell counts), abdominal 
pain (belly ache), dysgeusia (taste disturbances), increased levels of liver enzymes in the blood (which 
may indicate liver damage), decreased appetite, diarrhoea, neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a 
type of white blood cell that fights infection) and thrombocytopenia (low levels of platelets).  
Women must not breastfeed during treatment with Rubraca and for at least 2 weeks after treatment.  
Why is Rubraca authorised in the EU? 
Rubraca has been shown to delay worsening or return of the disease in patients whose cancer had 
cleared partially or completely after treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Regarding safety, 
side effects occur frequently but are generally not serious and are manageable with appropriate 
treatment. In addition, fewer liver and blood-related problems occur with Rubraca than with other 
existing treatments for these patients.  
The European Medicines Agency decided that Rubraca’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU.  
Rubraca was originally given ‘conditional authorisation’ because there was more evidence to come 
about the use of Rubraca outside maintenance treatment of patients. This use has since been 
restricted.1 The authorisation has therefore been switched from a conditional to a standard marketing 
authorisation.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rubraca? 
The company that markets Rubraca will provide final results to confirm the effectiveness of Rubraca as 
a maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO Stages III and IV) high-grade 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer whose cancer has cleared (partially or 
completely) after treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rubraca have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rubraca are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Rubraca are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
1 Following a review carried out in 2022, the use of Rubraca in patients whose cancer has returned or worsened after two 
treatments with platinum-based chemotherapy is no longer recommended. 
 
Other information about Rubraca 
Rubraca received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 24 May 2018. This 
was switched to a standard marketing authorisation on 9 November 2022.  
Further information on Rubraca can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Rubraca.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2023.  
