ANNEX 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to be 
implemented by the member states 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of medicinal product to be 
implemented by the member states 
The Member States must ensure that all conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use 
of the medicinal product described below are implemented in their national territory: 
•  Prior to launch of the product in the Member State, the national competent authority shall agree 
the content and format of the educational material with the Marketing Authorisation Holder.  
•  The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) should ensure that, at launch, all Healthcare 
Professionals who are expected to prescribe Ruconest are provided with an Educational pack. 
The educational pack should contain the following: 
•  Summary of Product Characteristics and Patient Information Leaflet for Ruconest 
•  Educational material for the physician. 
•  Copies of the patient card to be given to patients before they receive Ruconest 
The educational material for the prescriber should include information on the following key elements: 
•  That Ruconest should be initiated under the guidance and supervision of a physician experienced 
in the diagnosis and treatment of hereditary angioedema and should be administered by a health 
care professional. 
•  That patients treated with Ruconest should be monitored for clinical signs and symptoms of 
hypersensitivity during administration. Emergency medical treatment should be available 
immediately to be administered in case of anaphylactic reactions or shock.  
•  The fact that Ruconest is derived from milk of transgenic rabbits and contains trace of rabbit 
proteins (Host Related Impurities, HRI). 
•  That Ruconest is contra indicated in all patients with known or suspected rabbit allergy or with 
positive serum IgE antibodies against rabbit dander due to the risk of major allergic reactions, 
therefore: 
o  Before initiating treatment with Ruconest all patients should be tested for the presence of 
IgE antibodies against rabbit epithelium (dander). Only patients who have been shown to 
have negative test results should be treated with Ruconest.  The patients should receive a 
patient card that documents the negative result.  
o 
o 
IgE testing should be repeated once a year or after 10 treatments, whichever occurs first. 
In addition, IgE testing should be repeated if symptoms of rabbit allergy develop. 
Information about the appropriate methodology to be used for laboratory testing of serum 
IgE antibodies against rabbit epithelium (dander) 
•  That patients with clinical evidence of cow’s milk allergy may have antibodies cross reacting with 
the rabbit milk impurities in Ruconest.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  A protocol for performing a skin prick test (SPT) with Ruconest and an intravenous test 
dosing schedule in patients with a negative skin prick test, including criteria for 
interpreting results, for patients with clinical features of cow’s milk allergy.  
•  The need to inform patients about the early signs of hypersensitivity reactions including hives, 
generalised urticaria, tightness of the chest, wheezing, hypotension and anaphylaxis, and that they 
should alert their physician if these symptoms occur.  
•  The potential risk of an immune complex-mediated type III hypersensitivity reaction due to the 
formation of antibodies directed against Host Related Impurities (HRI). Advice about the 
immunogenicity laboratory testing program for detecting these antibodies for following up 
suspected immune complex-mediated disease, and about the procedure to follow for the collection 
and shipment of a blood sample to the company’s central laboratory. This testing should be 
provided free of charge. 
•  The risk of formation of anti-C1INH antibodies and therefore the potential risk of formation of 
neutralising antibodies. Advice about the immunogenicity laboratory testing program for these 
antibodies provided by the company for following  up suspected emergence of neutralising 
antibodies and information about the procedure to follow for the collection and shipment of a 
blood sample to the company’s central laboratory. This testing should be provided free of charge. 
The patient card should contain the following key elements: 
•  That they are receiving Ruconest for treatment of acute attack of hereditary angioedema 
•  That Ruconest is derived from milk of transgenic rabbits and contains trace of rabbit proteins  
•  That they have been tested negative for IgE anti rabbit (dander) within the last year. 
•  The patient card should include an area where patients can record the results of their last IgE 
anti Rabbit (dander) and the date of the test  
• 
a reminder that IgE anti rabbit (dander) testing should be repeated once a year or after 10 
treatments, whichever occurs first. In addition, IgE testing should be repeated if symptoms of 
rabbit allergy develop. 
•  The patient card should include an area where patients can record the date and dose of every 
treatment by Ruconest (highlighting every tenth treatment)  
•  The importance of monitoring for clinical signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity and that 
patients should alert their doctor if they develop such symptoms during or after receiving 
Ruconest.  
•  That patients treated with Ruconest should be monitored for clinical signs and symptoms of 
hypersensitivity during administration. Emergency medical treatment should be available 
immediately to be administered in case of anaphylactic reactions or shock.  
•  That they should be asked to carry the card and always show it to any health care professional 
treating them for acute attacks of hereditary angioedema. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
