Summary of risk management plan for fostemsavir
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for fostemsavir. The RMP details 
important risks of fostemsavir, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about fostemsavir's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Fostemsavir's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how fostemsavir should be used.
This summary of the RMP for fostemsavir should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
fostemsavir's RMP.
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for
Fostemsavir, in combination with other antiretrovirals, is authorised for treatment of adults 
with multidrug resistant HIV-1 infection for whom it is otherwise not possible to construct a 
suppressive anti-viral regimen (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains temsavir as the 
active substance and it is given by a tablet by mouth.
Further information about the evaluation of fostemsavir’s benefits can be found in 
fostemsavir’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/
rukobia
II.
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise
or further characterise the risks
Important risks of fostemsavir, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed
studies for learning more about fostemsavir's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of fostemsavir is not yet available, it is
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A
List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of fostemsavir are risks that need special risk management activities to further
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of fostemsavir. Potential risks are concerns for which an
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
None
Important potential risks
Ventricular tachyarrhythmias due to QT
prolongation
Missing information
Use in pregnant and lactating women
Long term safety data
II.B
Summary of important risks
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product.
Important potential risk: Ventricular tachyarrhythmias due to QT prolongation
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
The risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias due to QT prolongation, which can 
be life-threatening, is considered an important potential risk based on the
finding that a supra-therapeutic dose of FTR prolonged QTc interval in the
thorough QT (TQT) clinical study in healthy volunteers. Based on modelling 
of TQT clinical data, the threshold for clinically significant QTc prolongation 
(≥10 ms) is 7,500 ng/mL TMR, which is 4.2x higher than the Cmax
associated with FTR 600 mg BID regimen in HTE HIV-1 infected patients 
enrolled in the Phase 3 study.  This safety threshold for QT prolongation is 
sufficiently high to cover the Cmax increase due to co-administration of 
pharmacoenhancers. No significant clinical events relating to this risk have 
been identified to date in clinical studies involving FTR.
Risk factors and risk
groups
No  additional  risk  factors  have  been  identified  in  HTE  HIV  infected-
patients beyond those previously described for the general population.
Risk minimisation
measures
Routine risk minimisation: 
 SmPC section 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8.
 PL section 2 and 4.
Other routine risk minimization measures beyond the Product
Information:
 This is a prescription only medicine.
 Prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of HIV.
Additional risk minimization measures: None.
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activity:
Short study name: A Clinical Trial to Investigate the Efficacy and Safety of 
Fostemsavir in HTE Subjects Infected with Multi-drug Resistant HIV-1 
(BRIGHTE Study).
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Important missing information 1: Use in pregnant and lactating women
Risk minimisation
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC section 4.6. PL section 2.
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product
Information: 
 This is a prescription only medicine.
 Prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of HIV.
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional risk minimization measures: None.
Additional pharmacovigilance activity:
Short study title: Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR)
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan.
Important missing information 2: Long term safety data
Risk minimisation
measures
None.
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activity:
Short study title: A Clinical Trial to Investigate the Efficacy and Safety of 
Fostemsavir in HTE Subjects Infected with Multi-drug Resistant HIV-1 
(BRIGHTE Study)
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
II.C
II.C.1
Post-authorisation development plan
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation
of fostemsavir.
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
Study Short Name:Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR).
Purpose of the Study: The APR is an international registry that monitors prenatal exposures to 
ARV drugs to detect a potential increase in the risk of birth defects through a prospective
exposure-registration cohort.
Study Short Name: A Multi-arm, Phase 3, Randomized, Placebo Controlled, Double Blind 
Clinical Trial to Investigate the Efficacy and Safety of Fostemsavir (BMS-
663068/GSK3684934) in Heavily Treatment Experienced Subjects Infected with Multi-drug 
Resistant HIV-1 (BRIGHTE Study).
Purpose of the Study: This ongoing Phase 3 study is designed assess the efficacy and safety 
of fostemsavir in heavily treatment-experienced patients.
