EMA/707937/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005011 
Rukobia (fostemsavir) 
An overview of Rukobia and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rukobia and what is it used for? 
Rukobia is a medicine used to treat adults infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), 
a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Rukobia is given with other HIV 
medicines when none of the standard combinations work well enough to control the infection because 
the virus is resistant to them (multi-drug resistant HIV-1). 
How is Rukobia used? 
Rukobia can only be obtained with a prescription. It should be prescribed by a doctor who is 
experienced in the treatment of HIV infection. 
The medicine is available as prolonged-release tablets, which release the active substance slowly over 
a few hours. One tablet should be taken twice a day. 
For more information about using Rukobia, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Rukobia work? 
When in the body, the medicine attaches to a protein on the outer envelope of the HIV-1 virus. This 
prevents the virus from interacting with immune cells called T cells, which are the main target of the 
HIV-1 virus. By preventing the virus from entering the T cells and reproducing inside them, Rukobia 
slows down the spread of infection. 
Rukobia does not cure HIV-1 infection or AIDS, but it may hold off damage to the immune system and 
the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Rukobia have been shown in studies? 
Rukobia taken with other HIV medicines was shown to be effective at reducing viral load (blood levels 
of HIV-1 virus) in patients with multi-drug resistant HIV-1. 
In a main study involving adults with multi-drug resistant HIV-1, patients were given Rukobia or 
placebo (a dummy treatment) in addition to their usual HIV medicines. At the start of treatment, 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
patients had a viral load of at least 400 copies/ml. After 8 days, 65% of patients who were taking 
Rukobia had a decrease in the viral load compared with 19% of patients receiving placebo.  
After around 22 months taking Rukobia, the viral load had fallen to below 40 copies/ml in 60% of 
patients taking at least one other HIV medicine that worked and in 37% of patients in whom no other 
HIV medicines were working. 
What are the risks associated with Rukobia? 
The most common side effects with Rukobia (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
diarrhoea, headache, nausea (feeling sick), rash, belly pain and vomiting. 
The most serious side effect (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) is immune reconstitution 
inflammatory syndrome (when the immune system starts working again, leading to inflammation and 
damage to healthy tissue).  
Rukobia must not be taken with certain medicines called ‘strong CYP3A inducers’, including epilepsy 
medicines carbamazepine and phenytoin, cancer medicines mitotane and enzalutamide, the antibiotic 
medicine rifampicin and the herbal medicine St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Rukobia, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Rukobia authorised in the EU? 
Rukobia suppressed the HIV-1 virus in patients for whom other HIV medicines were not working and 
no major safety concerns were identified. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that 
Rukobia’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rukobia? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rukobia have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rukobia are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Rukobia are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Rukobia 
Rukobia received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 4 February 2021. 
Further information on Rukobia can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/rukobia.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2021. 
Rukobia (fostemsavir)  
EMA/707937/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
