Summary of the Risk Management Plan for RXULTI 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for RXULTI. The RMP details 
important risks of RXULTI, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about RXULTI's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
RXULTI's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how RXULTI should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for RXULTI should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
RXULTI’s RMP. 
I: The Medicine and What it is Used for 
RXULTI is authorised for the treatment of schizophrenia in adult patients (see SmPC for 
the full indication). It contains brexpiprazole as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of RXULTI’s benefits can be found in 
RXULTI’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/rxulti 
II: Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of RXULTI together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about RXULTI's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size  the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status  the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance 
activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of RXULTI is not yet available, it is 
listed under `missing information’ below. 
II.A: List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of RXULTI are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of RXULTI. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of 
the medicine). 
Table 1: List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
•  None 
•  None 
•  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
•  Use in elderly (age > 65).  
II.B: Summary of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Table 2: Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine risk communication: 
•  SmPC Sections 4.6, 5.3 
•  PL Section 2 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
Data collection from participation in the NPRAA 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Use in Elderly ( > 65) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine risk communication: 
•  SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4 
•  PL Section 2 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
II.C: Post-authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of RXULTI. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan 
NPRAA 
Purpose of the study: To systematically and prospectively monitor pregnancy outcomes 
in individuals using atypical antipsychotics. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
