EMA/393168/2018  
EMEA/H/C/003841 
Rxulti (brexpiprazole) 
An overview of Rxulti and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rxulti and what is it used for? 
Rxulti is an antipsychotic medicine used to treat schizophrenia in adults. Schizophrenia is a mental 
illness with symptoms such as delusions, disorganised thinking and speech, suspiciousness and 
hallucinations (seeing, hearing or feeling things that are not there). 
Rxulti contains the active substance brexpiprazole.  
How is Rxulti used? 
Rxulti is available as tablets (0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3 and 4 mg) to be taken by mouth. The recommended 
starting dose is 1 mg once daily for the first 4 days. The dose is then increased to 2 mg once daily 
taken on days 5, 6 and 7 and increased again if necessary to 4 mg once daily on day 8. The 
recommended dose is between 2 and 4 mg daily and 4 mg is the maximum recommended daily dose.  
In patients with moderately or severely reduced kidney or liver function the dose should be limited to 
3 mg once a day. In patients taking certain other medicines the doctor may need to adjust the dose of 
Rxulti.  
Rxulti can only be obtained with a prescription.  
For more information about using Rxulti, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Rxulti work? 
The active substance in Rxulti, brexpiprazole, is thought to attach to receptors (targets) in the brain for 
several neurotransmitters (substances nerve cells use to communicate with neighbouring cells) 
including dopamine, serotonin and noradrenaline. These neurotransmitters play a role in schizophrenia, 
and by acting at their receptors, brexpiprazole helps normalise the activity of the brain and reduce 
symptoms of schizophrenia. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Rxulti have been shown in studies? 
Rxulti has been shown to be effective at reducing symptoms of schizophrenia in 5 main studies 
involving 2,404 adults with schizophrenia, although there were some inconsistent results.  
In 4 of the studies, Rxulti was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) and the main measure of 
effectiveness was reduction of symptoms on a standard rating scale called PANSS (positive and 
negative syndrome scale) which ranges from a minimum of 30 (no symptoms) to a maximum of 210 
(severest symptoms) after 6 weeks of treatment. 
In the first study, the PANSS score fell by around 21 and 20 points with 2 mg and 4 mg Rxulti 
respectively compared with 12 points with placebo.  
In the second study, the PANSS score fell by around 20 points with 4 mg Rxulti compared with 14 
points with placebo. However, there was not considered to be a difference between 2 mg Rxulti and 
placebo.  
In the third study, the PANSS score fell by around 15 points with 2 mg Rxulti compared with 8 points 
with placebo and there was not considered to be a difference between 4 mg Rxulti and placebo.  
In the fourth study, doses of Rxulti ranging from 2 to 4 mg were compared with placebo and with 
another antipsychotic medicine, quetiapine. After 6 weeks, there was not considered to be a difference 
between Rxulti and placebo. Results at 2, 3 and 4 weeks showed improvement in symptoms with Rxulti 
compared with placebo. Quetiapine showed improvement in symptoms at 6 weeks compared with 
placebo. 
The fifth study compared Rxulti with placebo over one year, and the main measure of effectiveness 
was the risk of relapse (worsening of symptoms). Rxulti was more effective than placebo in preventing 
relapse: after a year, 14% of patients taking Rxulti had relapsed compared with 38% of patients taking 
placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Rxulti? 
The most common side effects with Rxulti are akathisia (a constant urge to move, which may affect 
around 6 in 100 people) and weight gain (which may affect around 4 in 100 people).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Rxulti, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Rxulti authorised in the EU? 
Rxulti was effective at reducing symptoms of schizophrenia. Although the reductions in symptoms were 
not consistent across the studies, this often occurs in studies with antipsychotic medicines and the 
European Medicines Agency considered that the effects were sufficient to conclude that Rxulti is 
beneficial to patients with schizophrenia. Based on available data, it is not possible to say how Rxulti 
compares with other medicines of the same type. The safety profile of Rxulti is similar to other 
antipsychotic medicines. The Agency decided that Rxulti’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rxulti? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rxulti have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Rxulti (brexpiprazole)  
EMA/393168/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rxulti are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Rxulti are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Rxulti 
Rxulti received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 July 2018. 
Further information on Rxulti can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2018. 
Rxulti (brexpiprazole)  
EMA/393168/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
