EMA/602814/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005454 
Rybrevant (amivantamab) 
An overview of Rybrevant and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rybrevant and what is it used for? 
Rybrevant is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
whose cancer cells have certain genetic changes. These changes are in the gene for a protein that 
controls cell growth, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and are known as ‘activating EGFR exon 
20 insertion mutations’. The medicine is given when cancer treatment with platinum-based medicines 
has not worked well enough. 
Rybrevant contains the active substance amivantamab. 
How is Rybrevant used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment with Rybrevant should be started 
and supervised by a doctor who is experienced in using cancer medicines and given in a setting where 
any infusion-related side effects can be managed. 
Rybrevant is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein. The first week’s dose is split over two successive 
days, and then it is given once weekly for the next three weeks and after that once every two weeks. 
The dose of the medicine depends on the patient’s bodyweight. Treatment is continued until the 
disease gets worse or side effects become too severe. Treatment should be stopped temporarily or 
permanently, and subsequent doses may be reduced if the patient experiences certain side effects.  
Patients should be given antihistamines (allergy medicines), antipyretics (fever-reducing medicines), 
and corticosteroids before the first treatment to reduce infusion-related reactions. In the following 
treatment sessions, patients should be given antihistamines and antipyretics. 
For more information about using Rybrevant, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Rybrevant work? 
In NSCLC cells, EGFR is often overactive, causing uncontrolled growth of cancer cells. 
Amivantamab is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) designed to recognise and attach to two 
receptors (targets) on the surface of the NSCLC cells simultaneously. One part of the antibody attaches 
to EGFR with activating EGFR Exon 20 insertion mutations. The other part attaches to MET, a receptor 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Un on   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
important for cancer growth and metastasis (cancer that spreads to another part of the body). By 
attaching to the two proteins, amivantamab blocks them from receiving the messages the cancer cells 
need for growing and spreading. The attached antibody also attracts and activates immune cells to kill 
the targeted cancer cells.  
What benefits of Rybrevant have been shown in studies? 
In one main study, Rybrevant was effective at reducing the size of the cancer in patients with NSCLC 
with activating EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations who had previously been treated with platinum-
based cancer medicines. Rybrevant was not compared with any other treatment or placebo (a dummy 
treatment). 
Response to treatment (shrinkage in size of the cancer) was assessed using body imaging. In around 
37% (42 out of 114) of the patients, the cancer shrank after treatment with Rybrevant. On average, 
responses lasted for just over 12 months. 
What are the risks associated with Rybrevant? 
The most common side effects with Rybrevant (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are rash, 
infusion-related reactions, nail toxicity (nail abnormalities with pain or discomfort), hypoalbuminaemia 
(low blood levels of the protein albumin), oedema (fluid retention), tiredness, stomatitis (inflammation 
of the lining of the mouth), nausea (feeling sick), and constipation. The most common serious side 
effects (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) are interstitial lung disease (disorders causing 
scarring in the lungs), infusion-related reactions and rash. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Rybrevant, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Rybrevant authorised in the EU? 
Patients with NSCLC with EGFR Exon 20 insertion mutations have few available treatment options if 
their cancer gets worse or does not respond to platinum-based therapy. Although the main trial 
included a relatively small number of patients and did not compare Rybrevant with another cancer 
treatment, it showed that the medicine can provide clinically significant benefits in a group of patients 
who have limited treatment options. Its side effects were considered manageable with appropriate 
measures, such as changing the dose or, for infusion-related reactions, modifying the infusion and 
treating the symptoms.  
The European Medicines Agency, therefore, decided that Rybrevant’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Rybrevant has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the European Medicines 
Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Rybrevant? 
Since Rybrevant has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Rybrevant will 
provide additional results from an ongoing study in patients with advanced or metastatic NSCLC with 
activating EGFR Exon 20 insertion mutations. The study will compare the effectiveness of adding 
Rybrevant to platinum-based chemotherapy versus platinum-based therapy alone for initial treatment.     
Rybrevant (amivantamab)  
EMA/602814/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rybrevant? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rybrevant have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rybrevant are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Rybrevant are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Rybrevant 
Rybrevant received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 December 
2021 
Further information on Rybrevant can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ rybrevant.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2021. 
Rybrevant (amivantamab)  
EMA/602814/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
