Summary of Risk Management Plan for RYBREVANT (amivantamab) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  RYBREVANT.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of RYBREVANT, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about RYBREVANT's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
RYBREVANT's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  (PL)  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how RYBREVANT should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for RYBREVANT should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
RYBREVANT’s RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used For 
RYBREVANT, as monotherapy, is authorized for the treatment of adult patients with advanced 
non-small  cell lung  cancer  (NSCLC)  with  activating  epidermal  growth  factor  receptor  (EGFR) 
Exon 20 insertion (Exon 20 ins) mutations, after failure of platinum-based therapy (see SmPC for 
the full indication). It contains amivantamab as the active substance and it is given by intravenous 
infusion. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  RYBREVANT’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
RYBREVANT’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  European 
Medicines Agency  (EMA)  website,  under  the  medicine’s webpage  link  to  the  EPAR  summary 
landing page. 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of RYBREVANT, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about RYBREVANT's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analyzed  including  Periodic  Benefit-Risk  Evaluation  Report/Periodic  Safety  Update 
Report assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of RYBREVANT are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of RYBREVANT. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Infusion-related reaction 
Important potential risks  Hepatotoxicity 
Missing information 
None 
Impaired fertility and embryofetal toxicity 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risk: Infusion-related reaction 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Cases of infusion-related reaction (IRR) have been reported in 
subjects treated with RYBREVANT in clinical trials and IRR was 
identified as adverse reaction. The risk for IRR and IRR as an 
adverse reaction are described in the SmPC for RYBREVANT. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No risk factors for the development of IRRs have been identified. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 2 
PL Section 3 
PL Section 4 
 
  Recommendations to administer RYBREVANT in a setting 
with appropriate medical support, for administration of pre-
infusion medicinal products, for RYBREVANT initial 
infusion administration in split doses on Week 1 (Days 1 and 
2), and for RYBREVANT administration via specific infusion 
rates are provided in SmPC Sections 4.2 and 4.4, and PL 
Section 3. 
  Recommendations regarding the management of IRRs (eg, 
interruption or discontinuation of infusion, administration of 
supportive medicinal products) are provided in SmPC 
Sections 4.2 and 4.4, and PL Section 4. 
 
Patients with side effects during infusion of RYBREVANT 
should notify their doctor or nurse immediately, as described 
in PL Sections 2 and 4. 
 
Legal status. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
  None 
Important Potential Risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys, slight 
elevations in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) were not considered adverse.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Cases of ALT, AST, blood alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and 
gamma-glutamyltransferase increased have been reported in 
subjects treated with amivantamab in clinical trials. ALT, AST, 
and ALP increased were identified as adverse reactions and are 
described in the SmPC for RYBREVANT. There have been no 
confirmed cases of drug-induced liver injury.. 
Risk factors associated with EGFR inhibitor-associated 
hepatotoxicity include pre-existing liver disease, worsening liver 
metastases, and the use of histamine type 2 blockers, cytochrome 
P450 3A4 inducers, or other concomitant hepatotoxic medications. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
 
 
 
SmPC Section 4.8 (ALT, AST, and ALP increased) 
PL Section 4 
Legal status. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
  None 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: Impaired fertility and embryofetal toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
There are no human or animal data to assess the risk of 
RYBREVANT in pregnancy. Clinical trials of RYBREVANT 
excluded pregnant women and required adequate contraceptive 
measures during treatment. There have been no subjects who 
became pregnant while on treatment with RYBREVANT during 
clinical trials. 
Administration of other EGFR and mesenchymal-epidermal 
transition (MET) inhibitors to pregnant animals has resulted in an 
increased incidence of impairment of embryofetal development, 
embryolethality, and abortion. Therefore, based on the mechanism 
of action and findings in animal models, RYBREVANT could 
cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. 
Embryofetal toxicity is considered a class warning for EGFR and 
MET inhibitors. 
The risk of impaired fertility and embryofetal toxicity is described 
in the SmPC for RYBREVANT. 
Women of childbearing potential, who are patients, are at high risk 
for developing embryofetal toxicity during administration of 
RYBREVANT. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
 
 
 
SmPC Section 4.6 
SmPC Section 5.3 
PL Section 2 
  Warnings for the potential harmful effects of EGFR inhibition 
on embryofetal development, and precautions to avoid 
pregnancy by using effective contraception during treatment 
and for 3 months after the last dose of RYBREVANT, are 
provided in SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2. 
 
Patients should notify their doctor or nurse immediately about 
a potential or confirmed pregnancy before and during 
treatment with RYBREVANT, as described in PL Section 2. 
 
Legal status. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
  None 
II.C. 
Postauthorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
The following study is a condition of the marketing authorization: 
61186372NSC3001 - A randomized, open-label Phase 3 study of combination amivantamab and 
carboplatin-pemetrexed therapy, compared with carboplatin-pemetrexed, in patients with EGFR 
Exon 20ins mutated locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. 
 
Purpose  of the study:  To  assess  the  efficacy, as demonstrated by progression-free survival, the 
clinical  benefit,  and  the  safety  in  participants  treated  with  amivantamab  in  combination  with 
chemotherapy, versus chemotherapy alone. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
There are no other studies required for RYBREVANT. 
