Summary of the risk management plan for Rydapt (midostaurin)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Rydapt (midostaurin). 
The RMP details important risks of midostaurin, how these risks can be minimised, 
and how more information will be obtained about risks and uncertainties (missing 
information) associated with midostaurin use.
Midostaurin  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how 
midostaurin should be used.
This summary of the RMP for midostaurin should be read in the context of all this 
information 
its 
plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment 
Report (EPAR).
including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of midostaurin RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Rydapt® contains midostaurin as the active substance, and it is authorised for use 
in the following indications:

In combination with standard daunorubicin and cytarabine induction and high-
dose  cytarabine  consolidation  chemotherapy  and  for  patients  in  complete 
response  followed  by  Rydapt® single  agent  maintenance  therapy  for  adult 
patients  with  newly  diagnosed  acute  myeloid  leukaemia  (AML) who  are  FLT3 
mutation-positive;
 As monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with aggressive systemic 
mastocytosis  (ASM),  systemic  mastocytosis  with  associated  haematological 
neoplasm (SM-AHN), or mast cell leukaemia (MCL).
Rydapt® is available as 25 mg soft capsules, and the dosing information is provided 
below.
For AML: The recommended dose of Rydapt® is 50 mg orally twice daily. Rydapt®
is  dosed  on  days  8-21  of  induction  and  consolidation  chemotherapy  cycles,  and 
then  for  patients  in  complete  response  every  day  as  single  agent  maintenance 
therapy until relapse for up to 12 cycles of 28 days each. In patients receiving a 
haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplant  (SCT),  Rydapt® should  be  discontinued  48 
hours prior to the conditioning regimen for SCT.
For  ASM,  SM-AHN  and  MCL:  The  recommended  starting  dose  of  Rydapt® is 
100 mg orally twice daily. Treatment should be continued as long as clinical benefit 
is observed or until unacceptable toxicity occurs.
Additional details on the approved indications are available in the SmPC.
Further information about the evaluation of midostaurin’s benefits can be found in 
midostaurin’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, 
webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/rydapt.
medicine’s 
under 
the 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
further characterise the risks
Important risks of midostaurin, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about midostaurin risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so 
to ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR, so that immediate action can 
be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  midostaurin  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with the use of midostaurin. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is 
currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
Important 
identified risks
Important 
potential risks 
None
 Cardiac dysfunction
 Effect of genomic polymorphisms of CYP3A4/CYP3A5 on 
pharmacokinetics of midostaurin and potential risk of treatment-
related toxicity
Missing 
information
None
II B: Summary of important risks
Table 2
Important potential risk: Cardiac dysfunction
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimisation 
measures
Current evidence is based on clinical data, literature, and 
post marketing.
The  major  risk  factors  for  congestive  heart  failure  are  total 
blood  cholesterol  elevation,  hypertension,  abnormal  lipid 
profiles,  abdominal  obesity,  alcohol  overconsumption, 
cigarette  use,  and  diabetes.  In  AML  patients,  chemotherapy 
with  daunorubicin  is  a  known  risk  factor  for  cardiac 
dysfunction.
Routine risk minimisation measures
SmPC Section 4.4
PL Section 2
SmPC Section with specific clinical measure: Section 4.4
Additional risk minimisation measures
None
Table 3
Important potential risk: Effect of genomic polymorphisms 
of CYP3A4/CYP3A5 on pharmacokinetics of midostaurin 
and potential risk of treatment-related toxicity
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimisation 
measures
Current evidence is based on published literature.
Patients  with  genomic  polymorphism  of  CYP3A4/CYP3A5  and 
potentially  having  a  reduced  CYP3A4/CYP3A5  metabolism 
activity requiring midostaurin therapy.
Routine risk minimisation measures
None
SmPC Section with specific clinical measure: None
Additional risk minimisation measures
None
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Study CPKC412E2301
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan.
II C: Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
Table 4
Studies which are conditions of the marketing 
authorisation
Study short name
Purpose of the study:
Study 
CPKC412ADE02T
Study 
CPKC412A2408
Study 
CPKC412E2301
induction, 
To evaluate the impact of midostaurin given in combination with 
including  allogeneic 
consolidation 
intensive 
hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  and  single  agent 
maintenance  therapy  on  event-free  survival  (EFS) in  adult 
patients with AML exhibiting a FLT3-ITD.
To  further  assess  the  safety  of  midostaurin  in  induction, 
consolidation  and  maintenance  therapy,  including,  the  “7+3” 
regimen, higher dose of Daunorubicin (60-90mg/m2/day), the 
substitution  of  Daunorubicin  by  Idarubicin  and  lower  dose  of 
Cytarabine (100-200 mg/m2/day) and also allowing the “5+2” 
reduced dose regimen.
To  determine  if  the  addition  of  midostaurin  to  standard 
induction  and  consolidation  therapy,  followed  by  single  agent 
maintenance  therapy  improves  EFS not  censored  for  HSCT  in 
patients with newly diagnosed FLT3-WT AML.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
Table 5
Other studies in the post-authorisation development plan
Study short name 
Rationale and study objectives
Study 
CPKC412E2301
To determine the impact of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 polymorphisms 
on  the  exposure  of  midostaurin,  and  on treatment-related 
toxicity.
