EMA/471783/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004095 
EPAR summary for the public 
Rydapt 
midostaurin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Rydapt. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Rydapt. 
For practical information about using Rydapt, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Rydapt and what is it used for? 
Rydapt is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), 
a cancer of white blood cells. It is used with other cancer medicines (chemotherapy) initially and on its 
own once the chemotherapy is completed if the disease has responded to treatment. Rydapt is only 
given when the AML has a particular genetic change called an FLT3 mutation. 
Rydapt is also used on its own in adults with the following disorders of a type of white blood cell known 
as mast cell: aggressive systemic mastocytosis, systemic mastocytosis associated with a 
haematological neoplasm (blood cancer), and mast cell leukaemia. 
Because the number of patients with these diseases is low, they are considered ‘rare’, and Rydapt was 
designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on various dates (see below). 
Rydapt contains the active substance midostaurin. 
How is Rydapt used? 
Rydapt can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the use of cancer medicines. Rydapt is available as capsules containing 25 mg of 
midostaurin. The usual starting dose is 50 mg (two capsules) twice a day for AML, on days 8 to 21 of a 
28-day treatment cycle, and then every day once the disease has responded. Treatment is continued 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
for up to 12 cycles depending on how patients respond. For mast cell disorders, the starting dose is 
100 mg (four capsules) twice daily; treatment is continued for as long as the patient benefits. If a 
patient develops certain severe side effects, the doctor may decide to reduce subsequent doses or 
delay or stop treatment.  
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Rydapt work? 
The active substance in Rydapt, midostaurin, is a ‘tyrosine kinase inhibitor’. This means that it blocks 
the action of certain enzymes known as receptor tyrosine kinases. In patients with an FLT3 mutation, 
an abnormal form of the FLT3 tyrosine kinase stimulates the survival and growth of AML cells. By 
blocking the abnormal FLT3 enzyme, Rydapt helps to bring about the death of the abnormal cells and 
control the spread of the cancer. Rydapt also blocks a mutated form of another enzyme, KIT kinase, 
which plays an important role in stimulating the abnormal growth of mast cells in patients with mast 
cell disorders. 
What benefits of Rydapt have been shown in studies? 
Rydapt has been shown to improve survival in patients with AML associated with an FLT3 mutation. 
One main study, involving 717 such patients, compared Rydapt with placebo (a dummy treatment) 
initially as an addition to other cancer medicines, followed by treatment with Rydapt or placebo alone 
in those whose disease responded. About 51% of those given Rydapt and 43% of those given placebo 
were still alive after 5 years. 
Another main study involving 116 patients with mast cell disorders also showed benefit. The study 
looked at the response to Rydapt treatment in patients with aggressive systemic mastocytosis, 
systemic mastocytosis associated with blood cancer, or mast cell leukaemia. Overall, using the most 
stringent, up-to-date criteria, the disease responded to treatment in about 28% of patients (32 of 
113). When looked at separately the response rate was highest (60%) in those with aggressive 
systemic mastocytosis. 
What are the risks associated with Rydapt? 
When used to treat AML, the most common side effects with Rydapt (which may affect more than 1 in 
10 people) are febrile neutropenia (fever and low white blood cell count, seen in nearly all patients), 
exfoliative dermatitis (inflamed, peeling skin), vomiting, headache, petechiae (tiny blood spots under 
the skin) and fever. The most frequent severe side effects were febrile neutropenia, lymphopenia (low 
counts of lymphocytes, a particular type of white blood cell), infections at the site of a catheter (a tube 
inserted in a vein), exfoliative dermatitis, high blood sugar and nausea (feeling sick). 
When used for mast cell disorders, the commonest side effects (affecting one third or more of all 
patients) were nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, peripheral oedema (swelling of the ankles and feet) and 
tiredness. The commonest severe side effects were tiredness, sepsis (blood poisoning), pneumonia 
(lung infection), febrile neutropenia and diarrhoea. 
For the full list of all side effects reported with Rydapt, see the package leaflet. 
Rydapt must not be given to patients taking certain other medicines that affect the way it is handled in 
the body. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Rydapt  
EMA/471783/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Rydapt approved? 
Rydapt has been shown to be of benefit in patients with AML associated with an FTL3 mutation. The 
safety of the medicine was acceptable in such a severe condition and was considered manageable.  
In mast cell disorders there was also important evidence of effectiveness. Although Rydapt had not 
been compared with other treatments, given the rarity of the conditions and the unmet medical need 
of patients who have them, the clinical benefits were clear, and the adverse effects acceptable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Rydapt’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rydapt? 
The company that markets Rydapt will complete three further studies to provide the Agency with 
evidence to support the effectiveness of the medicine in elderly patients with AML. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rydapt have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Rydapt 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Rydapt on 18 September 2017. 
The full EPAR for Rydapt can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Rydapt, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summaries of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Rydapt can be found 
on the Agency’s website:  
acute myeloid leukaemia  
mastocytosis. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2017. 
Rydapt  
EMA/471783/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
