18 October 2012 
EMA/700472/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Ryzodeg 
International non-proprietary name: insulin degludec/insulin aspart 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002499 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail (cid:13)nfo@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1.   Background information on the procedure ............................................ 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 13 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................. 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 14 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 15 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 16 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 20 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 20 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 21 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 21 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 21 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 25 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 27 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 44 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 46 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 46 
2.5.1. Dose response studies...................................................................................... 47 
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................... 47 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 119 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ................................................................... 123 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 123 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 136 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 139 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................ 139 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................. 145 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance .......................................................................... 145 
4.  Recommendations ............................................................................. 150 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 2/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
3TW 
α-GI  
AE 
AUC 
BB  
BID 
BMI 
Cmax 
CGM 
CHMP 
CI  
CSII  
CV  
CYP 
DPP-4 inhib  
ECG 
ELISA   
ESRD 
FAS  
FF  
FPG 
GCP 
glin  
HbA1c    
i.m. 
i.v. 
IAsp  
IDeg  
IDegAsp 
IDegLira 
IDet  
IG 
IGF-1 
IGlar  
IU 
LOCF    
MACE 
MTD 
NN1250:  
NOEL 
NOAEL   
NPH  
OAD  
OD 
PD 
PDCO 
PIP 
PK 
PP  
PRO 
PSUR 
PV 
PYE  
RIA 
RMP: 
s.c. 
SAE 
SAG 
SAS  
3 times weekly 
alpha-glucosidase inhibitor 
adverse event 
area under the curve 
basal–bolus 
twice daily 
body mass index  
maximum plasma concentration 
continuous glucose monitoring 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
confidence interval 
continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion  
coefficient of variation 
cytochrome P450 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor 
electrocardiogram 
enzyme-linked immuno sorbent assay 
end-stage renal disease 
full analysis set 
fixed flexible  
fasting plasma glucose 
good clinical practice 
glinide  
glycosylated haemoglobin A1c  
intramuscular 
intravenous 
insulin aspart 
Insulin degludeg 
insulin degludec/insulin aspart 
Ideg co-formulated with Liraglutide 
insulin detemir 
interstitial glucose 
insulin-like growth factor 1 
insulin glargine 
International Unit 
last observation carried forward 
major adverse cardiovascular events 
maximum tolerated dose 
the name previously used for insulin degludec (IDeg) 
no observed effect level 
no observed adverse effect level 
neutral protamine Hagedorn 
oral antidiabetic drug 
once daily 
phamacodinamics 
Paediatric Committee 
paediatric investigational paln 
phamacokinetics 
per protocol  
patient reported outcome 
Periodic Safety Update Report 
process validation 
patient years of exposure 
radio immuno assay 
risk management plan 
subcutaneous 
serious adverse event 
scientific advisory group 
safety analysis set 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 3/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SD  
SMPG 
T1/2 
T1DM 
T2DM 
TID 
TZD 
U 
Vd 
standard deviation 
self-measured plasma glucose 
half life 
type 1 diabetes mellitus 
type 2 diabetes mellitus 
three times daily 
thiazolidinedione 
units 
volume of distribution 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 4/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.   Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Novo  Nordisk  A/S  submitted  on  26  September  2011  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ryzodeg, through the centralised procedure 
falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: Treatment of diabetes mellitus. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and bibliographic literature 
substituting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/96/2011 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/96/2011 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substances insulin degludec and insulin aspart contained in the 
above medicinal product to be considered as a new active substance in itself.  
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP in 2007, 2008 and 2009. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects during the development of insulin degludec/insulin 
aspart (IdegAsp) (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/257964/2007, EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/311991/2008 and 
EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/80644/2009). The questions on the clinical development related mainly to the 
adequacy of the clinical pharmacology programme, to the choice of comparators in the clinical trials, 
number of subjects exposed, the in-and exclusion and withdrawal criteria, concomitant OADs, strategy 
for statistical analysis, the definition of responders and hypoglycaemia,  the evaluation of antibody 
development and of cardiovascular events. Further to the CHMP advice, the applicant also received 
advice from the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, France and Portugal on the non-clinical 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 5/151 
 
 
 
 
development with specific focus on the carcinogenicity assessment. The agencies confirmed that no 
further non-clinical or carcinogenicity testing is necessary. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Kristina Dunder  Co-Rapporteur: Jens Heisterberg 
CHMP Peer reviewer: Pieter Neels 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 26 September 2011. 
The procedure started on 19 October 2011.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 09 January 
2012. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 06 
January 2012.   
  During the meeting on 16 February 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 20 
February 2012. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 April 
2012. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 5 June 2012. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 21 June 2012, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding Issues to be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 20 August 2012. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the CHMP 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 03 September 2012. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 20 September 2012, the CHMP agreed on a second List of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing and/or an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the second CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 26 
September 2012. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second 
CHMP List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 04 October 2012. 
  During the CHMP meeting in October 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Ryzodeg on 18 October 2012.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 6/151 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Despite advances in insulin engineering and diabetes management, the majority of subjects with 
diabetes fail to meet the recommended levels of glycaemic control required to reduce long-term 
microvascular and macrovascular complications. Hypoglycaemia and the fear of hypoglycaemia are 
major limiting factors for achieving target levels of glucose control in insulin-treated subjects with 
diabetes and are also barriers for timely initiation of insulin once glycaemic control can no longer be 
sustained with oral antidiabetic drugs (OADs). Furthermore, inflexible and cumbersome treatment 
regimens adversely impact treatment compliance and quality of life. 
Insulin analogues have been developed to more closely mimic endogenous insulin secretion and are 
now an established part of diabetes management. Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) contains 
both a long-acting and a rapid-acting insulin. Development of IDegAsp has been pursued in parallel to 
the development of the long-acting basal insulin degludec (IDeg), for which a separate application was 
filed. 
About the product 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) is a co-formulation of the long-acting basal insulin degludec 
(IDeg) and the rapid-acting prandial insulin analogue, insulin aspart (IAsp).  
Insulin degludec is a long-acting basal insulin modified such that the amino acid residue threonine in 
position B30 of human insulin has been omitted and the ε-amino group of lysine in position B29 has  
been coupled to hexadecanedioic acid via a spacer of glutamic acid. The structural formula is 
LysB29(N(ε)-hexadecandioyl-γ-L-Glu)desB30 human insulin and the molecular formula 
C274H411N65O81S6 giving a molecular mass of 6104.1 dalton. This structure allows insulin degludec to 
form soluble and stable multi-hexamers, resulting in a depot in the subcutaneous tissue after injection. 
The gradual separation of insulin degludec monomers from the multi-hexamers results in a slow and 
continuous delivery of insulin degludec from the subcutaneous injection site into the circulation, 
leading to long pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles. 
Insulin aspart is an analogue of human insulin where the amino acid proline has been replaced with 
aspartic acid in position B28. The molecular formula of insulin aspart is C256H381N65O79S6 and it has a 
molecular mass of 5825.8 dalton. Insulin aspart is the active component of the marketed products 
NovoRapid/NovoLog (NDA 20-986) and NovoMix/NovoLog Mix. Insulin aspart has been on the market 
for more than 10 years, and safety and efficacy of the product is well established. 
The formulation of IDegAsp has been optimized such that the individual components do not interact, 
with insulin aspart present as soluble and stable hexamers and insulin degludec as soluble and stable 
di-hexamers. Once injected into the subcutaneous tissue, the insulin aspart hexamers immediately 
form monomers which are rapidly absorbed into the capillaries while the insulin degludec di-hexamers 
form multi-hexamers which in themselves are of a molecular size too large to be absorbed, leading to 
a depot from which insulin degludec monomers are slowly and continuously absorbed into the 
circulation. In this manner, it has been possible to obtain a clear distinction between the effects of the 
bolus (insulin aspart) and basal (insulin degludec) components of IDegAsp. At the target tissues, 
insulin degludec and insulin aspart monomers bind to and activate insulin receptors triggering the 
same cellular effects as human insulin such as promoting glucose uptake. During development insulin 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 7/151 
 
 
 
 
degludec has been named: insulin 454, SIBA, NN1250 and insulin degludec, whereas the co-
formulation has been named: insulin 454/insulin aspart, SIAC and NN5401. 
IDegAsp is intended for once-daily or twice-daily subcutaneous (s.c.) administration in patients with 
diabetes mellitus. IDegAsp is administered with the main meal(s). When needed, the patient can 
change the time of administration as long as IDegAsp is dosed with a main meal. IDegAsp is injected 
subcutaneously in the abdominal wall, the upper arm or the thigh. 
IDegAsp is developed to cover basal insulin needs in patients with diabetes mellitus from early to late 
stages of the disease, either alone or in combination with bolus insulin as well as oral antidiabetic 
drugs. 
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, the recommended total daily starting dose of IDegAsp is 10 
units with meal(s) followed by individual dosage adjustments. For patients with type 1 diabetes 
mellitus, IDegAsp is to be used once-daily at meal-time and with short-/rapid-acting insulin at the 
remaining meals followed by individual dosage adjustments. The recommended starting dose of 
IDegAsp is 60–70% of the total daily insulin requirements.  
IDegAsp has a strength of 100 U/ml and is a clear and colourless solution containing the drug 
substance insulin degludec in a concentration of 420 nmol/ml (70%) and insulin apart in a 
concentration of 180 nmol/ml (30%), respectively. 
IDegAsp 100 U/ml is intended to be marketed in two presentations, as a Penfill 3ml cartridge for use 
with durable pens and as a pre-filled disposable PDS290 pen-injector with a dose range of 1-80 
U/injection, which can be dialled in 1 U increments. 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
This is a complete application in accordance with article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended for 
approval of a new active substance through the centralised procedure with Kristina Dunder (SE) acting 
as Rapporteur and Jens Heisterberg (DK) acting as CoRapporteur.  
The applicant has not requested an accelerated procedure, conditional approval or approval under 
exceptional circumstances. 
The claimed indication submitted by the Applicant was: Treatment of diabetes mellitus. The indication 
granted on 18 October 2012 was “Treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults” which is in line with the 
recommendations of the SmPC guideline as insulin degludec has not been approved in children. 
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for insulin degludec/insulin aspart has been agreed with the EMA 
(EMA/247853/2011).The EMA has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with IDegAsp 
NN in: 
•  neonates and infants from birth to less than 12 months of age with type 1 diabetes mellitus on 
the grounds that the disease or condition for which the specific medicinal product is intended 
does not occur in the specified paediatric subset 
• 
children from birth to less than 10 years of age with type 2 diabetes mellitus on the grounds 
that the disease or condition for which the specific medicinal product is intended does not occur 
in the specified paediatric subset 
• 
children from 10 to less than 18 years of age with type 2 diabetes mellitus on the grounds that 
the specific medicinal product does not represent a significant therapeutic benefit over existing 
treatments. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 8/151 
 
 
 
 
The EMA has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with IDegAsp NN in: 
• 
children from one to less than 18 years with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Ryzodeg having a strength of 100 U/ml is a clear and colourless solution containing the drug substance 
insulin degludec in a concentration of 420 nmol/ml (70%) and insulin apart in a concentration of 180 
nmol/ml (30%), respectively. 
Ryzodeg 100 U/ml is intended to be marketed in two presentations, as a Penfill 3ml cartridge for use 
with durable pens and as a pre-filled disposable PDS290 pen-injector with a dose range of 1-80 
U/injection, which can be dialled in 1 U increment. 
Ryzodeg is a soluble co-formulation of long-acting basal insulin, insulin degludec and the marketed 
rapid-acting insulin analogue, insulin aspart (B28Asp human insulin). Ryzodeg is the first fully soluble 
ready-to-use insulin product for subcutaneous (s.c.) injection that comprises both a basal insulin 
component (insulin degludec) and a bolus insulin component (insulin aspart). The formulation of 
Ryzodeg has been optimised such that the individual components do not interact with insulin aspart 
present as soluble and stable hexamers and insulin degludec as soluble and stable di-hexamers. Once 
injected into the subcutaneous tissue the insulin aspart hexamers immediately form monomers which 
are rapidly absorbed into the capillaries while the insulin degludec di-hexamers form soluble multi-
hexamers which in themselves are of a molecular size too large to be absorbed, leading to a depot 
from which insulin degludec monomers are slowly and continuously absorbed into the circulation. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Drug substance – insulin degludec 
Insulin degludec is an analogue of human insulin where threonine in position B30 has been omitted 
and where the ε-amino group of lysine B29 has been coupled with hexadecanedioic acid via a 
γ−glutamic acid spacer. Insulin degludec is produced using recombinant DNA technology in yeast 
(Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and chemical modification. 
The theoretical average molecular weight of insulin degludec is 6103.97 Da. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 9/151 
 
 
 
 
 
The structural formula of insulin degludec is given in the figure below: 
Origin, source and history of cells, characterisation and testing 
Insulin degludec is an analogue of human insulin where threonine in position B30 has been omitted 
and where the ε-amino group of lysine B29 has been coupled with hexadecanedioic acid via a 
γ−glutamic acid spacer. Insulin degludec is produced using recombinant DNA technology in yeast 
(Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and chemical modification. 
This structure allows insulin degludec to form soluble and stable multi-hexamers, resulting in a depot 
in the subcutaneous tissue after injection. The gradual separation of insulin degludec monomers from 
the multi-hexamers results in a slow and continuous delivery of insulin degludec from the 
subcutaneous injection site into the circulation, leading to long pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
profiles. 
Source, history and generation of the cell substrate as well as the description of preparation and 
testing of the MCB, WCB and end of production cells are detailed and sufficient. No material of human 
or animal origin was used in the preparation of cell banks or in the fermentation process of insulin 
degludec.  
Manufacture 
The insulin degludec drug substance manufacturing process includes fermentation of yeast cells, 
recovery and purification. The fermentation produces a precursor-insulin, which is cleaved to desB30-
insulin. This is then purified and chemically modified to insulin degludec by inserting a hexadecandioyl-
γ-L-glutamate group in position B29. After further purification, the drug substance is stored at long 
term storage conditions according to the approved shelf-life.   
Filling, storage and transportation (shipping) 
The handling of intermediates is carried out according to written procedures. The shipping of the drug 
substance is handled according to written procedures. 
The storage times for intermediates and drug substance applied for are based on stability studies. 
Manufacturing process development 
The description of the in-process controls and tests are thorough.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 10/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the results from the process validation, it can be concluded that the insulin degludec 
manufacturing process consistently produces insulin degludec drug substance of reproducible quality in 
accordance with the predetermined specifications. The process has a high removal capacity of process 
and product related impurities. 
The process development history and the consequential comparability studies for insulin degludec drug 
substance were rather complex which is acceptable. Changes in relation to the insulin degludec 
manufacturing process are minor and well justified and supported by comparability data. 
Characterisation and Impurities 
The structural characterisation and elucidation of physico-chemical properties have confirmed the 
expected structure and properties of insulin degludec drug substance. Correlation of the bioassay with 
the content as measured by RP-HPLC has been evaluated with a substantial number of samples of drug 
substance and drug product both at release and during stability. The content by RP-HPLC offers a 
reliable indication of the biological activity of insulin degludec in drug substance and drug product.  
Product and process related impurities formed during manufacture are acceptably described. 
Specification 
The specification for drug substance release contains parameters defining identity, content, potency 
and purity of insulin degludec. Methods used have been demonstrated to be suitable for their purpose.  
References Standards of Materials  
The Reference material is sufficiently described.  
Container Closure System 
Insulin degludec drug substance is stored in a container closure system.  
Stability 
Stability data from primary stability studies of  drug substance production scale batches and stability 
studies of  insulin degludec drug substance Process Validation (PV) batches were submitted. In 
addition, stability data for the supportive stability studies of  insulin degludec drug substance pilot 
scale batches have been completed and were also included in the application. 
All data are within specification, and no significant trends are seen in the studies. The same analytical 
method as in the drug substance specification was used in the stability studies of the primary and 
process validation batches. 
Based on the available data, the proposed shelf-life for insulin degludec drug substance is supported.  
Drug substance – insulin aspart 
Origin, source and history of cells, characterisation and testing 
Insulin aspart is an analogue of human insulin where the amino acid proline has been replaced with 
aspartic acid in position B28. Insulin aspart is produced using recombinant DNA technology in yeast 
(Saccharomyces cerevisiae). 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 11/151 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture 
The insulin aspart drug substance manufacturing process includes fermentation of yeast cells and 
recovery of insulin aspart precursor. The purification consists of the conversion of insulin aspart  
precursor followed by several purification steps to reach insulin aspart. Insulin aspart is stored at long 
term storage conditions. 
Overall the control of source and starting materials is considered adequate. The construction of the 
expression plasmid, the source and history of S. cerevisiae strain and the generation of the S. 
cerevisiae strain producing insulin aspart precursor is described in sufficient detail. Description of 
preparation and testing of Master Cell Bank, Working Cell Bank and end of production cells are 
provided. 
In general the fermentation, recovery, purification and storage have been described in sufficient details 
and are controlled by appropriate in-process controls and acceptance criteria of intermediate products. 
Manufacturing process development 
The description of Manufacturing Process Development focuses on the differences between  insulin 
aspart manufacturing process.  
Characterisation and Impurities 
Extensive structural characterisation studies have been performed on the drug substance and the 
physicochemical properties have been shown. Careful discussion of product related 
substances/impurities and process related impurities are provided together with the results from the 
impurity testing of drug substance. All results are below the specification limits and comparable to 
historical ranges. 
Specifications 
The insulin aspart drug substance is tested by a range of physicochemical tests (identity, purity, assay 
and microbial content) to assure consistency in the production of drug substance.  
All tests listed in the specification are specified in the Ph.Eur monograph for insulin aspart except for 
one method, that  has been sufficiently described and validated. 
Results from production scale batches of insulin aspart drug substance batches used in IDegAsp drug 
product used for non-clinical studies and clinical trials, stability studies and process validation are 
provided.  All results are comparable and within the drug substance specification. 
References Standards of Materials and Container Closure System 
Primary and secondary reference materials and container closure system have been described in 
sufficient details. 
Stability 
Stability data of  production scale insulin aspart drug substance batches  are provided. All the stability 
results of insulin aspart were within the specification limits. Supplementary stability data (long term 
and accelerated) are also provided. The proposed shelf life is acceptable. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 12/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The drug product is a clear solution of 420 nmol insulin degludec,180 nmol insulin aspart, 
preservatives, glycerol as isotonic agent, and sodium chloride and zinc as a stabilising agents. The 
strength is 100 U/mL.  
The drug product is filled in 3 mL glass cartridges assembled into pre-filled disposable pens. The pen is 
identical to the one used for the centrally approved product Levemir. The product is also provided in 
the glass cartridges, which are fitted by the patient into a Novo Nordisk delivery system. 
Adventitious agents 
Insulin degludec is considered to be safe with regards to adventitious agents. 
Manufacture of the product 
Overall, the manufacturing process for insulin degludec/insulin aspart has been sufficiently described 
and validated. Critical process parameters have been identified and are covered by appropriate in-
process controls. 
In general, appropriate drug product specifications have been set and justified. The release 
specification for insulin degludec/insulin aspart contains parameters defining identity, content, potency 
and purity of the product.  
In general, the analytical methods have been adequately described and are validated.  
Reference Standards or Materials 
The same reference standard is used for insulin degludec drug substance and drug product. 
Container Closure System 
The container closure system for insulin degludec/insulin aspart 100 U/ml comprises a 3 ml cartridge 
(primary packaging). The 3 ml cartridge is assembled into a pre-filled disposable device, a PDS290 
pen-injector (secondary packaging). The pen (FlexTouch) is already approved for other Novo Nordisk 
insulin products. 
Stability of the product 
A shelf life of 30 months at 5°C±3°C, and an in-use period of 28 days at up to 30°C, is proposed for 
insulin degludec/insulin aspart 100 U/ml. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Based on the review of the data and the Applicant’s response to the CHMP LoQ, the CHMP considered 
that the active substance insulin degludec – insulin aspart contained in the medicinal product Ryzodeg 
is to be qualified as a new active substance in itself. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 13/151 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The overall quality of Ryzodeg is considered satisfactory. All quality outstanding issues raised during 
the procedure have been resolved. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development   
Not Applicable.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Insulin degludec is a modification of human insulin, where the amino residue threonine in position B30 
has been omitted and the ε-amino group of lysine in position B29 has been coupled to hexadecanedioic 
acid via a spacer of glutamic acid. This structure allows insulin degludec to form soluble and stable 
muti-hexamers, resulting in a depot in the subcutaneous tissue after injection. The gradual separation 
of insulin degludec monomers from the multi-hexamers results in a slow and continuous delivery of 
insulin degludec from the subcutaneous injection site into the circulation, leading to the observed long 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles. Furthermore, binding of the fatty acid moiety of 
insulin degludec to albumin contributes to some extent to the protraction mechanism. 
Insulin aspart is a modified recombinant insulin analogue, in which the native amino acid sequence of 
human insulin has been altered by replacing proline present at the B29 position with aspartic acid. 
Insulin aspart is relatively rapidly released from a s.c. injection site. In other respects it is considered 
identical to soluble human insulin. 
Insulin degludec /insulin aspart (IDegAsp) is a co-formulation intended to achieve the effects of the 
bolus (insulin aspart) and the basal (insulin degludec) components within a single injection. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary and secondary pharmacodynamic studies  
The focus of the pharmacology program has been on in vitro studies comparing the biological activity 
of insulin degludec to human insulin. Binding studies showed that insulin degludec has a lower affinity 
of binding to the insulin receptor (relative affinity ~5%), with a similar relative difference when 
studying binding to the insulin receptor from different species (rat, dog, pig, human). The involvement 
of albumin binding was confirmed by the fact that results were influenced by the albumin concentration 
in the assay. The kinetics of binding (on- and off rates) was similar to that of human insulin. 
Binding to the structurally similar IGF-1 receptor has been implicated to have importance for a 
mitogenic potential and possibly tumourogenicity. A number of binding studies showed that insulin 
degludec binds to IGF-1R with a lower affinity than human insulin, when normalising for the difference 
in binding to the insulin receptor. 
In vitro studies on insulin receptor signal transduction showed similar dose response curve with insulin 
degludec and human insulin, with the same maximum response. The dose response curve was right-
shifted reflecting the lower in vitro potency. The same maximum response shows that insulin degludec 
acts as a full agonist of the insulin receptor. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 14/151 
 
 
 
 
Insulin degludec showed the same rate of activation signal decline following insulin receptor 
stimulation as human insulin. This is in contrast to the mitogenic insulin B10Asp where prolonged 
signalling has been implicated as an important factor for mitogenicity and possibly tumorogenicity. 
Metabolic effects of insulin receptor signalling were studied in cell lines and primary liver cells. In all 
systems, insulin degludec showed the same maximal response as human insulin with similar but right-
shifted dose-response curve. 
The mitogenic response was studied in a number of cell lines, in two cases with cell lines which were 
also studied for a metabolic response. The mitogenic response to insulin degludec in the various cells 
was the same as for human insulin, but with a right shift of the dose response curve. The balance 
between the metabolic and mitogenic effects of insulin degludec was similar to that of human insulin. 
To establish the metabolic effects of insulin degludec in vivo, euglycaemic clamp studies were 
performed in rats and pigs. Studies in pigs were performed to select the appropriate formulation to be 
tested in early clinical trials.   
Insulin degludec gave no significant effects in 67 different assays of standard receptors and 
transporters, including the hERG potassium channel. In vivo safety pharmacology studies were 
performed in rats and dogs addressing CNS, cardiovascular and respiratory effects. There were no 
findings except respiratory effects at the highest dose as a consequence of hypoglycaemia. 
Insulin aspart was approved in 1999. The applicant performed a comprehensive literature search to 
cover non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetic and toxicology information available on insulin 
aspart since the approval of NovoRapid. The new pharmacological data on insulin aspart published 
since the MAA approval establish that insulin aspart has the same pharmacology profile as human 
insulin, and the new data have not changed the conclusion in the originally submitted documentation. 
No new safety pharmacology studies were identified in the post-approval literature search. For this 
application it was therefore agreed that no further assessment of the pharmacology of insulin aspart 
was warranted.  
In vitro studies with the combination were performed. It was shown that the effects of insulin degludec 
and insulin aspart were additive and that there were no synergistic or inhibitory interactions between 
the two.  
Safety pharmacology programme 
In vivo safety pharmacology studies were performed with insulin degludec in rats and dogs addressing 
CNS, cardiovascular and respiratory effects. The top dose 300 nmol/kg in rat and 24 nmol/kg in dog 
was approximately 66-fold (rat) and 5.3-fold (dog) the mean clinical dose of 1.08 U/kg (~ 4.54 
nmol/kg) in the most insulin requiring therapeutic confirmatory clinical trial. The maximal 
concentration (1000 nmol/ml) tested in vitro was approximately 100-fold the human Cmax. There were 
no findings except respiratory effects at the highest dose as a consequence of hypoglycaemia. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic interactions are generally not observed for insulin products. In consistence with this, 
such studies have not been conducted. This was accepted by the CHMP. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic studies confirmed that insulin degludec has the desired prolonged 
pharmacokinetic profile after s.c. injection. This was based on a protracted absorption process such 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 15/151 
 
 
 
 
that the elimination of the drug becomes dependent on the absorption rate. This phenomenon, which is 
evident in all species, is seen as a longer terminal plasma half-life (t½) after s.c. than after i.v. 
administration. However, in the animal species used in nonclinical studies, the half-life is much shorter 
than in humans (rat 3.1 h, dog 5.6 h, humans 25 h). Thus, once daily dosing which in humans results 
in a flat exposure profile, in the animals results in much more fluctuating exposure curve. 
Insulin degludec is highly protein bound in plasma and thus has a relatively low apparent volume of 
distribution. The initial peptide cleavage of insulin degludec is the same as seen for human insulin and 
extensive metabolism of insulin degludec occurs before excretion. 
The effect of insulin degludec antibodies on the insulin degludec pharmacokinetics was evaluated by 
comparing antibody positive and negative animals. No difference in the pharmacokinetics was 
observed, indicating that the presence of insulin degludec antibodies did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of insulin degludec. 
Insulin degludec was shown to cross the placenta to a minimal extent (< 1%).  
Common protein-bound drugs like ibuprofen, warfarin, acetylsalicylate, salicylate and frequently used 
antidiabetic agents glimepiride, metformin, sitagliptin and liraglutide as well as palmitate, oleate and 
linoleate did not affect insulin degludec binding to human serum albumin at 
therapeutically/physiologically relevant drug concentrations. The potential of insulin degludec to 
competitively displace albumin-bound drugs is considered to be very low. 
The new pharmacokinetic data on insulin aspart published since the MAA approval has not changed the 
conclusion in the originally submitted documentation. No pharmacokinetic (PK) studies were therefore 
submitted for insulin aspart; this was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
The pharmacokinetics of insulin degludec co-formulated with insulin aspart has been studied in rats 
and pigs. In both species it was demonstrated that insulin degludec could be administered co-
formulated with insulin aspart without changing the individual pharmacokinetic profiles of the two 
insulin molecules. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Overview of pivotal toxicity studies with insulin degludec 
Study type and duration 
Single-dose toxicity 
Repeat-dose toxicity 
4 week 
26 week 
52 week including carcinogenicity assessment 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies 
Fertility 
Embryo-foetal development 
Pre- and post-natal development 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Route of 
administration 
Species 
s.c. 
s.c. 
s.c 
s.c. 
s.c 
s.c. 
s.c. 
Rat and doga 
Rat and dog 
Rat and dog 
Rat 
Rat 
Rat and rabbit 
Rat 
Page 16/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local tolerance 
Early development drug product and ”to be marketed” 
s.c. 
Pig/Minipig 
drug product 
”To be marketed” drug product 
i.m., i.v., i.a. 
Rabbit 
Overview of pivotal toxicity studies with insulin degludec / insulin aspart 
Study type and duration 
Repeat-dose toxicity 
13 week 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies 
Embryo-foetal development 
Local tolerance 
Route of 
administration 
Species 
s.c 
s.c. 
Rat 
Rat 
Early development drug product and ”to be marketed” 
s.c. 
Pig/Minipig 
drug product 
”To be marketed” drug product 
i.m., i.v., i.a. 
Rabbit 
The general toxicity of insulin degludec was assessed after s.c single-dose administration in rats and 
dogs and after s.c. repeat-dose administration in rats and dogs for up to 52 and 26 weeks, 
respectively. In studies of 26 weeks duration or longer, recombinant human Neutral Protamine 
Hagedorn insulin (NPH insulin) was included as comparator to differentiate between effects considered 
related to pharmacological action of insulin and possible toxic effects of insulin degludec. 
No non-clinical toxicity studies conducted with insulin aspart after MAA approval were identified upon a 
thoroughly search of public peer-reviewed literature.  
Single dose toxicity 
Dosing of insulin degludec to healthy normo-glycaemic animals lowered blood glucose to levels below 
the normal physiological concentration and thereby induced clinical signs of hypoglycaemia and 
hypoglycaemia-related mortality. These effects were dose-limiting factors in both species tested. In 
addition, the effect on blood glucose resulted in compensatory adaptive changes such as increased 
body weight gain and food consumption, various changes in clinical pathology, decreased liver weight 
and depletion of liver glycogen. The changes seen were similar in nature and magnitude to those 
induced by NPH insulin and showed recovery. The changes were considered related to pharmacological 
effects of insulin and not unexpected toxic effects. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
The combination of insulin degludec and insulin aspart was studied in a 13 week repeat dose toxicity 
study in rats. There were no findings not observed in studies with insulin degludec or human insulin. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 17/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity 
In accordance with the ICH S6 guideline, genotoxicity studies were not performed as insulin degludec 
is considered a biotechnology-derived product. Insulin degludec consists of desB30 human insulin, 
glutamate and 1,16-hexadecanedioic acid and none of the individual components are considered to 
possess a mutagenic potential. Glutamate is a commonly used food additive and mutagenicity has 
been investigated and found negative in Ames test and in vitro chromosomal aberration test. 
Hexadecanedioic acid being a long-chain dicarboxylic fatty acid, and in general, fatty acids are not 
considered to possess a mutagenic potential. 
Carcinogenicity 
Standard 2-year carcinogenicity bioassay is in general considered inappropriate for biotechnology-
derived pharmaceuticals such as insulin degludec [ICH S6]. Rather, as insulin is a hormone with 
multiple well-known effects, including regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism and stimulation of cell 
growth, the carcinogenic potential of insulin degludec has been evaluated in a range of in vitro and in 
vivo studies. In vitro, a comprehensive set of studies has been conducted comparing the effect of 
insulin degludec to human insulin. Where considered appropriate, the related growth factor, IGF-1 or 
the insulin analogue insulin X10 also were included as suggested in the EMA “Points to consider 
document on the non-clinical assessment of the carcinogenic potential of insulin analogues”. In vivo, 
the carcinogenic potential of insulin degludec was assessed by evaluating hyperplastic and neoplastic 
lesions in all pivotal repeat-dose toxicity studies in both rats and dogs. Furthermore, the carcinogenic 
potential was the focus of detailed investigations included in the 52-week toxicity study in Sprague 
Dawley rats. 
In the in vitro pharmacodynamic studies comparing insulin degludec to human insulin, insulin showed a 
lower affinity to the insulin receptor, and thus a lower activity in all in vitro models. However, there 
were no important biological differences that would cause any concerns. 
Insulin degludec showed no carcinogenic potential in a 52-week toxicity study in Sprague Dawley rats 
upon complete histopathological evaluation of all animals. The female mammary gland was the focus 
of special attention and no treatment-related increase in incidences of hyperplasia, benign or 
malignant tumours was recorded in females dosed with insulin degludec. No treatment related changes 
in the female mammary gland cell proliferation were found using BrdU incorporation. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
In reproduction toxicity studies, there was no effect on mating performance and fertility, gestation 
index and length and post implantation survival, on embryo-foetal survival or on growth, offspring 
development and reproductive capacity. Decreased maternal food consumption and body weight, 
periparturient maternal hypoglycaemia-related mortality, lowered live birth index and viability index, 
lower offspring body weight and viability, skeletal changes in the offspring and delayed balano 
preputial separation are all considered secondary changes to the expected pharmacological effect on 
lowering the maternal blood glucose levels. This was further supported by the fact that similar effects 
were seen following dosing with NPH insulin, albeit some effects were more pronounced in rats 
receiving insulin degludec, which is related to the higher dose and prolonged pharmacological effect 
(hypoglycaemia) observed following insulin degludec dosing compared to NPH insulin. 
The combination of insulin degludec and insulin aspart was studied in an embryofoetal toxicity study in 
rats. There were no findings not observed in studies with insulin degludec or human insulin. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 18/151 
 
 
 
 
Local Tolerance  
The local tissue reaction after single or repeated subcutaneous administration was studied using a 
pig/minipig model or as an integrated part of the pivotal repeated-dose toxicity studies. Likewise, the 
local tissue reaction after single intramuscular, intravenous and intra-arterial administration was 
studied in rabbits. The local tissue reaction was mild and comparable to that of vehicle or NPH insulin. 
Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
Immunogenicity was evaluated by measurement of insulin degludec antibodies as an integrated part of 
the pivotal repeated dose toxicity studies. A few animals developed antibodies against insulin 
degludec: 
Species 
Study duration in weeks (study 
identification) 
Insulin degludec antibody positive animals / 
total number of animalsa 
Insulin degludec antibody positive animals / 
total number of animals a - after 4 weeks 
recovery 
NPH insulin antibody positive animals / 
total number of animalsa 
Rat 
4 
26  
52 
Dog 
4 
26 
(205239) 
(206315) 
(206539) 
(205238) 
(206314) 
7 / 54 
7 / 51 
1 / 213 
0 / 18 
0 / 23 
- 
- 
2 / 16 
- 
- 
0 / 4 
9 / 14 
1 / 79 
- 
6 / 6 
a - Only insulin degludec or NPH insulin dosed animals included 
-: Not applicable  
Only a few rats developed antibodies towards insulin degludec. The antibodies were not considered to 
possess a neutralizing effect as the insulin degludec exposure or the blood glucose lowering effect of 
insulin degludec were not affected. 
In dogs, antibodies towards insulin degludec were not detected neither immediately after termination 
of dosing nor after a 4-week recovery period. In all samples drawn at termination of dosing, remaining 
concentrations of insulin degludec were detected which could potentially have masked a weak antibody 
response. Whereas no insulin degludec remained in the samples obtained from recovery animals. 
Based upon absence of antibodies in the recovery animals, where no interference from insulin degludec 
could have occurred, insulin degludec exposure confirmation in all dosed animals and effect on plasma 
glucose, it is unlikely that neutralising antibodies were formed. 
The insulin degludec antibody response in rat and the potential weak antibody response in dog were 
not considered to possess a neutralizing effect and were therefore considered of no significance for the 
validity of the studies. 
Immunotoxicity 
No specific immunotoxicity studies have been performed. Standard immunotoxicity parameters such as 
evaluation of haematologic parameters, plasma globulins, weight and histopathology of immune 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 19/151 
 
 
 
 
organs were included in the pivotal repeat-dose studies in rat and dog. No treatment-related signs of 
immunotoxicity were identified. 
Dependence 
Insulin degludec has not been evaluated in non-clinical tests for drug abuse (drug dependency) since it 
is not considered  belonging to the classical drug abuse categories of opiates and narcotics, central 
nervous system stimulants/depressants, hallucinogens or cannabinoids. Furthermore, dependency 
(abuse) is not known for already marketed insulin products. 
Metabolites 
Insulin degludec is metabolised to protein, peptide, fatty acid degradation products and amino acids. 
Therefore, no toxicity studies of metabolites are warranted or were performed. 
Studies on impurities 
Product related impurities have been adequately qualified in the non-clinical program. The levels of 
leachables from the container closure system have been determined. The potential human exposure 
levels were evaluated and no safety concerns were identified. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Insulin degludec consists of a protein, and a fatty acid chain coupled via an amino acid spacer. Insulin 
aspart is a protein. No environmental risk assessment is required for this product. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The applicant has performed a comprehensive pharmacology programme, with the relevant focus on in 
vitro studies comparing the biological activity of insulin degludec to human insulin. While showing a 
lower affinity to the insulin receptor, and thus a lower activity in all in vitro models, there were no 
important biological differences that would cause any concerns. 
The nonclinical evaluation of carcinogenicity is considered a particularly important issue in the 
development of novel insulin analogues. The program performed by the applicant is in line with the 
recommendations in the CHMP “Points to consider document on the non-clinical assessment of the 
carcinogenic potential of insulin analogues”.  In the Points to Consider document, it is stated that 
insulin X10 should be considered as a positive control in the studies. The applicant has not included 
X10 in the in vivo study and this is justified based on the substantial background data on spontaneous 
tumour incidence in the Sprague-Dawley rat and its known responsiveness to insulin X10. 
Furthermore, insulin X10 is a rapid-acting insulin analogue and since dose (tolerability) and 
pharmacokinetic profile is very different from insulin degludec, insulin X10 is not seen as an 
appropriate positive control. This justification is endorsed. In addition, the applicant has included data 
from a previous study with the insulin analogue insulin detemir where insulin X10 was included as a 
control. In this study, insulin X10 showed a significant proliferative effect only with one label (Ki-67) 
but not with two others (PCNA and BrdU), questioning the value of insulin X10 as a positive control. 
For the in vivo study, it should be pointed out that the exposure profile in rats is different to the 
human situation. In humans, the long half-life (25 h) leads to a very flat PK profile while in rats with a 
shorter half-life (3h) the PK profile will be fluctuating. The rat study is therefore not fully relevant for 
the human situation. Considering that the human PK profile is likely to be similar to the physiological 
basal insulin levels in a healthy person, and the convincing pharmacodynamic similarity to human 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 20/151 
 
 
 
 
insulin shown in the in vitro studies, it is agreed that the studies performed by the applicant indicate 
and support the conclusion that the carcinogenic potential of insulin degludec is not greater than that 
of human insulin. 
The published data on insulin aspart did not change the overall non-clinical assessment of insulin 
aspart: Insulin aspart is rapidly released from the s.c. injection site. In respects to efficacy and safety 
insulin aspart is identical to soluble human insulin. 
The pharmacokinetics of insulin degludec co-formulated with insulin aspart demonstrated that insulin 
degludec could be administered co-formulated with insulin aspart without changing the individual 
pharmacokinetic profiles of the two insulin molecules. No toxicological findings were found with the 
combination of the two insulins. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic studies provided adequate evidence insulin degludec binds 
specifically to the human insulin receptor and results in the same pharmacological effects as human 
insulin. 
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, it was confirmed that insulin degludec has a prolonged 
pharmacokinetic profile after subcutaneous injection. This is evident in all species; however, in the 
animal species used in nonclinical studies, the half-life is much shorter than in humans. Thus, once 
daily dosing which in humans results in a flat exposure profile in the animals results in much more 
fluctuating exposure curve. 
Insulin degludec is highly protein bound in plasma and thus has a relatively low apparent volume of 
distribution. The initial peptide cleavage of insulin degludec is the same as seen for human insulin and 
extensive metabolism of insulin degludec occurs before excretion. 
The effect of insulin degludec antibodies on the insulin degludec pharmacokinetics was evaluated and 
no difference in the pharmacokinetics was observed, indicating that the presence of insulin degludec 
antibodies did not affect the pharmacokinetics of insulin degludec. 
The potential of insulin degludec to competitively displace albumin-bound drugs is considered to be 
very low. 
Overall, the toxicology programme did not reveal any safety concerns for humans based on studies of 
safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, carcinogenic potential, and toxicity to reproduction. This 
information has been included in the SmPC. 
Insulin aspart is rapidly released from the s.c. injection site. In respects to efficacy and safety insulin 
aspart is identical to soluble human insulin. 
The pharmacokinetic data demonstrated that insulin degludec could be administered co-formulated 
with insulin aspart without changing the individual pharmacokinetic profiles of the two insulin 
molecules. No toxicological findings were found with the combination of the two insulins. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The completed clinical development programme for IDegAsp comprises 13 clinical pharmacology trials, 
3 therapeutic exploratory trials of 6–16 weeks duration, 5 therapeutic confirmatory trials of 26 weeks 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 21/151 
 
 
 
 
 
duration and one completed therapeutic confirmatory, 26-week extension trial (see Figure “Overview 
of Clinical Trials in the IDegAsp Development Programme). In addition, evaluation of clinical 
pharmacology is supported by the IDeg clinical pharmacology programme.  
The therapeutic confirmatory programme investigated the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp in subjects 
with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) in combination with bolus insulin, and in both insulin-naïve and 
previously insulin–treated subjects with T2DM in combination with OADs. IDegAsp was administered 
once daily (OD) in T1DM. In T2DM, both OD and twice-daily (BID) dosing was investigated. Throughout 
the completed confirmatory trial programme, 1360 subjects were exposed to IDegAsp and 1037 
subjects were exposed to comparators. 
As of the clinical cut-off date of 31 January 2011, ongoing clinical trials comprised a therapeutic 
confirmatory trial in Japanese subjects (Trial 3896), an extension trial to Trial 3590 (Trial 3726), and a 
trial comparing two different titration algorithms (Trial 3844). All three ongoing trials investigate OD 
dosing in insulin-naïve subjects with T2DM. Important blinded safety information from these trials is 
included with a cut-off date of 31 March 2011. 
Apart from several advices given by national competent authorities, the applicant received CHMP 
Scientific Advice in June 2007 (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/257964/2007) and follow-up Scientific Advice on 
the Paediatric development programme in June 2008 (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/311991/2008). In February 
2009 extensive Scientific Advice was later provided (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/80643/2009) on questions 
concerning quality, pre-clinical and clinical development. The clinical questions related to the choice of 
comparators, the numbers of elderly and obese patients, the inclusion-, exclusion-and withdrawal 
criteria, the possibility for flexible dosing, the definitions of responders and hypoglycaemia, the 
strategy for statistical testing and the safety evaluation (meta-analysis for hypoglycaemia, antibodies, 
CV risk profile). 
The Applicant applied for the following indication: “Treatment of diabetes mellitus”. The indication 
“Treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults” was granted which is in line with the recommendations of 
the SmPC guideline as IDegAsp has not been approved in children. 
The Applicant proposed that in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, insulin degludec be administered 
alone, in combination with oral anti-diabetic products as well as in combination with bolus insulin. In 
type 1 diabetes mellitus, insulin degludec/insulin aspart must be combined with short-/rapid-acting 
insulin at the remaining meals. This was accepted by the CHMP. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 22/151 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Figure: Overview of Clinical Trials in the IDegAsp Development Programme  
All IDegAsp Clinical Trials 
Clinical 
Pharmacology  Trials 
Single-dose trials 
Exploratory Trials 
616 weeks’ duration 
Confirmatory Trials 
2652 weeks’ duration 
Healthy Subjects:   
1788b, 1790a,b, 1980, 
1985b 
Subjects with T2DM 
– IDegAsp OD: 
1791 (insulin-naïve) 
Subjects with T1DM: 
1738b, 1959b, 1977b, 
1981, 1982, 1983, 
3539, 3857b 
Subjects with T2DM: 
1738b, 1978 
Subjects with T2DM 
– IDegAsp BID: 
1792 (insulin-naïve) 
3570 (insulin-
treated) 
Subjects with T1DM – 
IDegAsp OD: 
3594 (+ extension 
3645) 
Subjects with T2DM – 
IDegAsp OD: 
3590 (insulin-naïve) 
3593 (insulin-treated) 
3896 (Japanese; 
ongoing) 
Subjects with T2DM – 
IDegAsp BID: 
3592 (insulin-treated) 
3597 (insulin-treated) 
Ongoing Non-
confirmatory 
Trials 
26 weeks’ duration 
Subjects with T2DM 
– IDegAsp OD: 
3726 (extension to 
3590) 
3844 (simple 
titration) 
OD = once daily; BID = twice daily 
a Clinical Pharmacology Trial 1790 was multiple-dose 
b 
Clinical Pharmacology Trials also including IDeg 
The IDegAsp clinical development programme includes 5 therapeutic confirmatory trials designed to 
cover the spectrum of potential use in both T1DM and T2DM, from insulin initiation in newly diagnosed 
subjects to insulin intensification in high-risk patients with advanced diabetes. An overview of trial 
designs is provided below. All trials were randomised, controlled, multinational, treat-to-target trials of 
26 weeks duration, the latter to ensure that stable glycaemic control was maintained for a sufficient 
time period. A 26-week extension trial to Trial 3594 in subjects with T1DM (Trial 3645) has been 
completed and provides additional evidence of long-term efficacy. The full trial of 52 weeks duration is 
denoted Trial 3594/3645. Differences across treatment arms in pen systems and dosing regimens 
necessitated open-labelled trial designs in all trials. A ‘treat-to-target’ concept was applied in all 
trials, aiming for a predefined fasting plasma glucose (FPG) of <5 mmol/L (90 mg/dL) in order to 
achieve an HbA1c < 7%, as recommended by current guidelines. As the glycaemic control target was 
the same for IDegAsp and comparator treatments, the primary endpoint of change in HbA1c from 
baseline to end-of-trial was tested using a non-inferiority criterion. 
In subjects with T1DM (Trial 3594/3645), IDegAsp OD + IAsp at remaining meals was compared with 
IDet + IAsp at all meals, which is representative for the standard of care for subjects with T1DM. IDet 
was dosed OD at initiation with a possibility of adding a second IDet dose in the event of inadequate 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 23/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
glycaemic control. In the trials including subjects with T2DM, comparators for OD and twice-daily (BID) 
dosing with IDegAsp were IGlar OD and BIAsp 30 BID, respectively. IGlar is the preferred comparator 
for OD dosing, as it is widely used and approved for OD dosing and has a well-known efficacy and 
safety profile. BIAsp 30 BID is considered the preferred comparator for BID dosing since it is the most 
widely used pre-mixed insulin worldwide, and because it contains a basal component and the same 
rapid-acting component (IAsp) as IDegAsp.  
Concomitant antidiabetic treatment in subjects with T1DM (Trial 3594/3645) consisted of mealtime 
IAsp. The efficacy and safety of treatment with IDegAsp in combination with OADs were studied in 
Trials 3590, 3593, 3592 and 3597. In subjects with T2DM, metformin is recommended as the drug of 
choice as first-line therapy and was mandatory in IDegAsp OD trials (Trials 3590 and 3593) and 
optional in IDegAsp BID trials (Trials 3592 and 3597). Subjects treated with metformin prior to 
enrolment were instructed to continue taking the same total dose throughout the trial. The same 
applied for treatment with DPP-4 inhibitor and pioglitazone, which were allowed in Trials 3593 and 
3592. Use of insulin secretagogues, α-glucosidase inhibitors and GLP-1 agonists were not allowed as 
concomitant medication in any of the trials. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 24/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Overview of IDegAsp Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials 
Trial N
o. 
Duration 
(Weeks) 
Trial Desc
ription 
OAD 
Combinat
ion 
Populat
ion 
Randomisa
tion 
(IDegAsp: 
Comparato
r) 
No. of 
Subjects 
Randomis
ed 
Antidiabetic 
Treatment at 
Screening 
Stratification 
T1DM 
3594 
26 (+ 26-
week 
extension, 
NN5401-
3645) 
IDegAsp 
OD + IAsp 
vs. IDet† + 
IAsp 
None 
Insulin-
treated 
2:1 
IDegAsp: 
366 
IDet: 182 
Basal–bolus 
insulin regimen 
or other mixed 
insulin regimen  
Prior treatment:  
• basal–bolus insulin 
regimen  
• other insulin 
regimen 
T2DM 
3590 
26 
3593 
26 
3592 
26 
3597 
26 
Metformin 
Metformin  
± 
pioglitazon
e 
± DPP-4 
inhibitor 
± 
metformin  
± 
pioglitazon
e 
± DPP-4 
inhibitor 
± 
metformin 
IDegAsp 
OD vs. 
IGlar OD 
IDegAsp 
OD vs. 
IGlar OD 
IDegAsp 
BID vs. 
BIAsp 30 
BID 
IDegAsp 
BID vs. 
BIAsp 30 
BID 
Insulin-
naïve 
Insulin-
treated 
1:1 
1:1 
IDegAsp: 
266 
IGlar: 263 
IDegAsp : 
230 
IGlar: 233 
Metformin and 
≥1 other OAD 
except TZD 
Basal insulin OD 
and metformin 
± other OADs 
None 
Prior treatment: 
• TZD Yes 
• TZD No 
Insulin-
treated 
1:1 
IDegAsp: 
224 
BIAsp 30: 
222 
Premixed/self-
mixed insulin 
OD or BID ± 
OADs 
Prior treatment:  
• OD insulin regimen 
• BID insulin regimen 
Insulin-
treated 
2:1 
IDegAsp: 
280  
BIAsp 30: 
142 
Basal insulin OD 
or BID ± 
metformin or 
premixed/self-
mixed insulin 
OD or BID ± 
metformin 
Prior treatment: 
• basal without 
metformin  
• basal with 
metformin 
• premix without 
metformin 
• premix with 
metformin 
†OD from start, but a second IDet dose could be added after 8 weeks in case of inadequate glycaemic control. 
BIAsp: biphasic insulin aspart; BID: twice daily; DPP-4: di-peptidyl peptidase-4; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDet: insulin 
detemir; IGlar: insulin glargine; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; TZD: thiazolidinedione. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
A total of 22 key trials were conducted with the commercial formulation of IDegAsp and/or IDeg. IDeg 
and IAsp have been quantified by validated sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) 
throughout the clinical trials. 
Absorption  
IDeg is administrated by subcutaneous injection. Absolute bioavailability was to be determined in study 
1992 but in the end, no estimate could be obtained due to an error in the i.v. dosing arm. The longer 
IDeg t½ seen after s.c. administration (25 hours) compared to that after i.v. administration 
(approximately 5 hours) suggests that the rate at which IDeg is eliminated after administration is 
determined by the absorption rate (flip-flop PK).  
Regarding site of injection, a greater AUC (5-10 %) and higher Cmax (20-30 %) was seen after s.c. 
administration of IDeg in the abdomen and deltoid region compared to s.c. administration in the thigh. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 25/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When comparing i.m. administration with s.c. administration, a greater extent of absorption (7 %) and 
higher maximum exposure (58 %) was seen following i.m. administration. Regarding IAsp, no studies 
on injection sites have been performed. This is acceptable as the use of various injection regions 
(abdominal wall, the thigh, the upper arm (the deltoid region) or the gluteal region) has previously 
been established.  
Based on data from trials 1959, 3857 and 1977, the pharmacokinetic profile of IDeg was not affected 
by co-formulation with IAsp in the IDegAsp product. It may therefore be concluded that IDeg dosing 
alone is representative of the basal component in IDegAsp. 
With respect to the IAsp component, both AUC and Cmax were 15-30% lower for IDegAsp compared 
to separate simultaneous injections of the IDeg and IAsp products.  
Distribution 
Based on in vitro studies using surface plasmon resonance (SPR) methodology, IDeg seems to have 
high plasma protein binding >99%. The Vd of IDeg is unknown. IAsp binding to plasma proteins has 
been reported as low (<10%) and similar to human insulin. 
Elimination 
Subcutaneously administered IDeg have an average t½ of approximately 25 hours in both T1DM and 
T2DM. This is longer than the t½ seen after i.v. administration (approximately 5 hours), which 
suggests that IDeg elimination rate is determined by the absorption rate of IDeg (flip-flop kinetics). 
Regarding IDeg, no indication of time dependency is seen. IAsp has not been studied in any multiple 
dose study and no conclusion regarding time dependency can be drawn based on the applicant´s 
documentation.  
According to the applicant, the dominating route of IDeg elimination is via degradation at the insulin 
receptor. IDeg is degraded by cathepsin D in vitro to the same metabolites as for human insulin. 
Studies in human, rat, rabbit and dog hepatocytes showed that IDeg was extensively degraded and 
that no IDeg metabolites were human specific. Renal excretion of intact IDeg is negligible. 
The metabolism and excretion of IAsp is assumed to be similar to human insulin. 
Variability 
IDeg exhibit a more flat PK profile than insulin glargine and insulin detemir where the t½ of IDeg was 
more than twice and three times as long compared to IGlar and IDet (25 vs. 12 and 7 hours). Intra-
individual variability in AUC was lower with IDeg (13 %) than with IGlar (24 %) in subjects with T1DM. 
Target population 
No major differences in IDeg or IAsp PK is observed between T1DM or T2DM populations but there is a 
trend towards lower IDeg and IAsp Cmax in the T2DM population compared to the T1DM population. 
Dose proportionality for IDeg and IAsp between doses of 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg in T1DM and T2DM 
populations, respectively, was demonstrated. In both populations, IDeg steady state was reached after 
2–3 days (48–72 hours) of once-daily s.c. dosing with IDeg with no further increase in exposure 
thereafter.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 26/151 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
A dedicated renal impairment study was performed and there were only minor differences in the 
pharmacokinetic properties of IDeg between subjects with renal impairment (mild, moderate, severe 
and ESRD) and healthy subjects. The data suggest very limited clearance of IDeg during 
haemodialysis. Hepatic impairment was also studied separately and there is no indication of differences 
in the pharmacokinetic properties of IDeg between subjects with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A, B 
and C) as compared to healthy subjects. The pharmacokinetic properties of IAsp have previously been 
shown not to be affected by renal impairment or hepatic impairment. The lack of new data is 
acceptable. 
There were only minor differences in the pharmacokinetic properties (AUC and Cmax differed < 15 % 
in all comparisons) of IDeg and IAsp between sexes, subjects of different race and ethnicity. 
When comparing younger adults and elderly, there is no indication of any difference in the 
pharmacokinetic properties of IDeg. Regarding IAsp, the AUC and Cmax was higher (27 % and 38% in 
average, respectively) for geriatric than younger adult subjects.  
When comparing children with adults, IDeg AUC and Cmax was ≈ 20-50 % higher and IAsp AUC and 
Cmax was ≈ 70 % higher in children compared to adult subjects. When comparing adolescents with 
adults, IDeg AUC and Cmax was ≈ 15-35 % higher and IAsp AUC and Cmax was ≈ 15 % higher in 
adolescents compared to adult subjects.  
Regarding IDeg, there seems to be a slight trend towards increased total exposure and maximum 
concentration with increased BMI in subjects with either T1DM or T2DM. The inter-individual variability 
seems also to increase with increased BMI. There seems to be no correlation between BMI and total 
exposure or maximum concentration of IAsp in subjects with either T1DM or T2DM. 
In general, any observed differences in the pharmacokinetic exposure between different special 
populations are not believed to have any clinical implications considering that the product should be 
dosed according to individual needs. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The major elimination pathway of IDeg is through degradation at the insulin receptor. Furthermore, 
insulins are not described as inhibitors or inducers of human CYP and it is considered unlikely that 
insulin degludec will differ in that aspect. Therefore, CYP interaction studies have not been conducted 
in vitro or in vivo. This approach was endorsed by the CHMP. Protein binding interactions with common 
protein-bound drugs where studied in vitro and no effect on insulin degludec binding to human serum 
albumin was seen. These studies in addition to theoretical discussion regarding in vivo IDeg 
concentrations versus albumin levels indicate that no in vivo protein interactions are expected. 
Regarding IAsp, no pharmacokinetic interactions are listed in the Novorapid (IAsp) SmPC and no new 
data is requested. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Insulin degludec is a long-acting basal insulin modified such that the amino acid residue threonine in 
position B30 of human insulin has been omitted and the ε-amino group of lysine in position B29 has 
been coupled to hexadecanedioic acid via a spacer of glutamic acid.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 27/151 
 
 
 
 
The gradual separation of insulin degludec monomers from the multi-hexamers results in a slow and 
continuous delivery of insulin degludec from the subcutaneous injection site into the circulation, 
leading to very long pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles. 
Insulin aspart is a short-acting analogue of human insulin where the amino acid proline has been 
replaced with aspartic acid in position B28. Insulin aspart is the active component of the marketed 
products NovoRapid/NovoLog (NDA 20-986) and NovoMix/NovoLog Mix. 
At the target tissues, IDeg and IAsp monomers bind to and activate insulin receptors triggering the 
same cellular effects as human insulin such as promoting glucose uptake as confirmed by the non-
clinical data. The mechanism of action of IDeg is similar to that of other insulins, only with a slightly 
lower activity and prolonged duration of action. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The program investigating the pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp consisted of nine studies 
conducted with IDegAsp and nine studies conducted with the long-acting component IDeg (Table 1). 
Table 1. Key Trials Investigating Pharmacodynamic Properties of IDegAsp and/or IDeg 
Type of Trial 
Subjects with T1DM  
Multiple-Dose Trialsa 
1991, 1993, 1994, 1996, 3538 
Single-Dose Trials 
1959, 1977, 1981, 1982, 1983, 3539, 
3857  
1978 
1980 
1987, 3762 
1992b, 3769 
     Sex (across trials) 
     Race/Ethnicity 
     Japanese 
a Trials conducted with the IDeg product. 
b Trial 1992 was conducted using different s.c. injection regions (the abdomen, thigh and deltoid) as well as i.v. and i.m. injection. 
1983 
1981 
1977, 1981, 3539, 3857 (T1DM); 
1978 (T2DM) 
1977, 1981, 3539, 3857 
1994 
1991, 1993, 1994, 3678 (T1DM); 
1987, 3762 (T2DM) 
1991, 1993, 1994, 3678 
3762 
1996 
Subjects with T2DM  
Healthy subjects 
Intrinsic factors: 
     Age 
     BMI (across trials) 
The dose-response Trials 3539 and 1978 are considered pivotal for describing the single dose 
pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp in subjects with T1DM and T2DM, respectively. This includes 
the shape of the profiles and the separation between the effect of the prandial and basal components 
in IDegAsp. Results from IDeg Trials 1993 and 1987 are used to describe the pharmacodynamic 
properties of the basal component (IDeg) of IDegAsp in subjects with T1DM and T2DM, respectively, in 
terms of dose–response, steady-state profile and duration of action. Trial 1991 with IDeg is used to 
describe the pharmacodynamic variability of the basal component (IDeg) of IDegAsp, while IDeg 
Trial 3538 is used to describe the response to controlled hypoglycaemia induced by the basal 
component (IDeg) of IDegAsp. Finally, the steady state pharmacodynamic response of the basal 
component has been established in IDeg trials with geriatric subjects (Trial 1994), Japanese subjects 
(Trial 1996) and subjects of different race/ethnicity (Trial 3762). 
All but one trial employed the euglycaemic clamp for the characterisation of the PD profile of IDegAsp 
and IDeg. The euglycaemic clamp procedure used across the IDegAsp and IDeg clinical pharmacology 
trials was standardised in a systematic way. A meal test was used to assess the pharmacodynamic 
properties of IDegAsp in children, adolescents and adults in Trial 1982.  
The counter-regulatory response to controlled hypoglycaemia induced by IDeg or IGlar after multiple 
doses in subjects with T1DM was investigated using a stepwise manual, hypoglycaemic, glucose clamp 
in Trial 3538. 
Single-Dose Pharmacodynamic Properties of IDegAsp 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 28/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IDegAsp vs. Corresponding Simultaneous Separate Injections of IAsp and IDeg 
The single-dose pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp were compared with corresponding separate 
simultaneous injections of the IDeg and IAsp products in a single-centre, randomised, double-blind, 
incomplete block cross-over design in Trial 1959 (T1DM). The dose levels of the separate simultaneous 
injections of the IDeg and IAsp products were chosen to mimic the fraction of each component in 
IDegAsp (0.92 U/kg). This design enabled a direct comparison between the pharmacodynamic profile 
of IDeg and IAsp when co-formulated in IDegAsp and the corresponding pharmacodynamic profile from 
separate simultaneous injections of the IDeg and IAsp products. 
The pharmacodynamic profiles following a single s.c. injection of IDegAsp and corresponding separate, 
simultaneous injections of the IAsp and IDeg products are presented in Figure 1. Despite the observed 
differences in the pharmacokinetic profile of IAsp administered in co-formulation with IDeg as 
compared to the IAsp product, there were no statistically or clinically significant effects on 
pharmacodynamics based on GIRmax,SD, AUCGIR,0-6h,SD (both reflecting the effect of the rapid-acting IAsp) 
and AUCGIR,0-24h,SD. Furthermore, a comparable time to GIRmax (tGIRmax) was observed for IDegAsp (2.6 
hours) and separate simultaneous IAsp and IDeg administration (2.2 hours) based on summary 
statistics.  
Figure 1. 24-hour Mean Glucose Infusion Rate Profiles after Single Dose IDegAsp vs. 
IDeg+IAsp in Subjects with T1DM 
Trial 1959: 0.92 U/kg IDegAsp or 0.28 U/kg IAsp + 0.64 U/kg IDeg. 
IDegAsp Dose Response After Single dose 
Subjects with Type 1 Diabetes 
The pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp were investigated in a randomised, single centre, double-
blind, four period, incomplete block cross over trial with single-dose administration of IDegAsp and 
BIAsp 30 at doses of 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg in subjects with T1DM (Trial 3539). The pharmacodynamic 
properties were investigated during a 26-hour euglycaemic clamp after a single dose. 
The glucose-lowering effects of the prandial and basal components of IDegAsp were separated (Figure 
2). It should be noted that, in the clinical setting, IDegAsp will have a generally higher glucose-
lowering effect than seen in Figure 2, as the basal component builds up to reach a steady state 
exposure level of approximately twice the magnitude within 2-3 days. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 29/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The total (AUCGIR,0-24h,SD) and maximum (GIRmax,SD) glucose-lowering effect of IDegAsp increased with 
increasing dose (Table 2). The estimated log-dose slope and 95% CI was 1.19 [0.99; 1.40]95%CI for 
AUCGIR,0-24h,SD and 0.89 [0.66; 1.13]95%CI for GIRmax,SD, thus supporting dose proportionality. 
Figure 2. 24-hour Mean Glucose Infusion Rate Profiles after Single Dose IDegAsp in Subjects 
withT1DM 
Trial 3539: 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg IDegAsp 
Table 2. Glucose Infusion Rate Endpoints after Single Dose IDegAsp in Subjects with T1DM 
Dose 
(U/kg) 
0.4 
0.6 
0.8 
N 
21 
20 
20 
AUCGIR, 0-24h,SD 
(mg/kg) 
GIRmax,SD (mg/kg*min) 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
1681 (34) 
2700 (42) 
3603 (25) 
3.8 (32) 
6.0 (38) 
6.9 (32) 
Trial 3539: 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg IDegAsp 
N: number of subjects contributing to the analysis; Geom. mean: geometric mean; CV%: coefficient of variation 
in %. 
As compared with BIAsp 30, IDegAsp had a similar onset of glucose-lowering effect, similar time to 
maximum effect (tGIRmax,SD) and a similar shape of the mean GIR profiles during the first 4 hours after 
injection (Figure 3). However, the prandial and basal effects were more clearly separated with IDegAsp 
than BIAsp 30. For IDegAsp, the glucose-lowering effect declined from its maximum until end of the 
prandial coverage, after which the glucose-lowering effect remained at a nearly constant and stable 
rate until 24 hours after injection.  
Figure 3 24-hour Mean Glucose Infusion Rate Profiles after Single Dose IDegAsp and BIAsp 
30 in Subjects with T1DM 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 30/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.6 U/kg 
Trial 3539: 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg IDegAsp 
The mean duration of action was longer for IDegAsp than for BIAsp 30 as determined from the blood 
glucose concentration. Based on the compiled individual glucose infusion rate profiles, a lower 
between-subject variability in the pharmacodynamic response was observed with IDegAsp than with 
BIAsp 30 for all three dose levels. 
In addition to Trial 3539, the single dose pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp in subjects with 
T1DM were also investigated in Trials 1959, 1977, 1981 and 3857. When presented as dose-
normalised values (geometric mean with 95% confidence intervals) across trials it was seen that 
AUCGIR,0-24h,SD and GIRmax,SD were in the same range across trials.  
Subjects with Type 2 Diabetes 
The pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp were investigated in Trial 1978 in subjects with T2DM. 
This trial was a randomised, single-centre, double-blind, four period, incomplete block cross-over trial 
with single dose administration of IDegAsp and BIAsp 30 at doses of 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg. The 
pharmacodynamic properties were investigated during a 26-hour euglycaemic clamp (target glucose 
level of 5.0 mmol/L [90 mg/dL]) after a single dose. One subject was excluded from the analyses due 
to a markedly higher GIR response compared with the mean response. 
The glucose-lowering effects of the prandial and basal components of IDegAsp were separated (Figure 
4).  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 31/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 24-hour Mean Glucose Infusion Rate Profiles after Single Dose IDegAsp in Subjects 
with T2DM 
Trial 1978: 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg IDegAsp. 
The 24-hour glucose infusion rate profiles as well as descriptive statistics showed that the 
glucose-lowering effect increased with increasing dose. The total and maximum glucose-lowering effect 
of IDegAsp (AUCGIR,0-24h,SD and GIRmax,SD) increased with increasing dose, and linearity was 
demonstrated (p=0.78 and p=0.67, respectively). 
As compared with BIAsp 30, IDegAsp had a similar time to maximum effect (tGIRmax,SD) and a similar 
shape of the mean GIR profiles during the first 5 hours after injection (Figure 5). For IDegAsp, the 
glucose-lowering effect declined from its maximum until end of the prandial coverage, after which the 
glucose-lowering effect remained at a nearly constant and stable rate until 24 hours after injection.  
A reliable estimate of time to onset of action could not be calculated in subjects with T2DM (Trial 1978) 
as some of the subjects with impaired insulin sensitivity received a dose that was lower than their 
normal insulin requirement. It is however notable that the onset of appearance of IAsp was within the 
same range for T2DM (14 to 17 minutes) and T1DM (16 to 21 minutes). 
Figure 5 24-hour Mean Glucose Infusion Rate Profiles after Single Dose IDegAsp and BIAsp 
30 in Subjects with T2DM 
0.6 U/kg 
Trial 1978: 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg IDegAsp. 
The mean duration of action was longer for IDegAsp than for BIAsp 30 as determined from the blood 
glucose concentration. Based on the compiled individual glucose infusion rate profiles, a lower 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 32/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between-subject variability in the pharmacodynamic response was observed with IDegAsp than with 
BIAsp 30 for all three dose levels. 
Steady State Pharmacodynamic Properties of the IDeg Component 
Since the pharmacokinetic profile of IDeg is not affected by co-formulation with IAsp, IDeg dosing 
alone can be used to characterise the pharmacodynamic profile of the basal component in IDegAsp. 
Therefore, the current section is based on trials with IDeg only. 
Subjects with Type 1 Diabetes 
The steady-state pharmacodynamic properties of IDeg in subjects with T1DM were investigated in Trial 
1993. This trial was a randomised, single-centre, double-blind, incomplete block cross-over, multiple-
dose trial with 8 days of once-daily administration of IDeg or IGlar at doses of 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg. 
Pharmacodynamic properties were investigated during a 42-hour euglycaemic clamp (target glucose 
level of 5.5 mmol/L [100 mg/dL]) conducted at steady state.  
The mean 24-hour glucose infusion rate profiles obtained at steady state show that the glucose-
lowering effect increased with increasing dose for both IDeg and IGlar. The glucose-lowering effect of 
IDeg was flatter and more stable compared to IGlar, and IDeg had a less pronounced peak effect and a 
smaller decline in effect between 12 and 24 hours after dosing compared to IGlar (Figure 6). 
Descriptive statistics and statistical analyses confirmed that the glucose-lowering effect of IDeg 
increased with increasing dose (Table 3). The estimated log-dose slope and 95%CI for AUCGIR,τ,SS was 
1.35 [0.94; 1.75]95%CI thus supporting dose proportionality within the investigated dose range. The 
time to maximum glucose infusion rate was observed approximately 12 hours after dosing at all three 
dose levels for IDeg.  
Figure 6. 24-hour Mean Glucose Infusion Rate Profiles for IDeg (Left) and IGlar (Right) at 
Steady State in Subjects with T1DM 
Trial 1993 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 33/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Glucose Infusion Rate Endpoints for IDeg at Steady State in Subjects with T1DM 
Dose 
AUCGIR,SS (mg/kg) 
GIRmax,SS (mg/kg·min) 
tGIRmax,SS (h) 
(U/kg) 
N 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Median (CV%) 
0.4  
21  1948 (54) 
0.6  
21  3854 (31) 
0.8  
22  4766 (27) 
2.0 (49) 
3.6 (30) 
4.2 (29) 
11.6 (60) 
12.4 (36) 
12.3 (40) 
Trial 1993.  N: number of subjects contributing to the analysis; Geom. mean: geometric mean; CV: coefficient of 
variation. 
Very similar results were observed for AUCGIR and GIRmax at the three dose levels for both IDeg and 
IGlar (data not shown), whereas t GIRmax was longer for IDeg. When AUCs for six hour periods were 
analysed, there is a more even distribution with IDeg compared to IGlar, where a higher proportion of 
the effects is observed during the first 12-18 hours. 
In addition to Trial 1993, the steady-state pharmacodynamic properties of IDeg in subjects with T1DM 
were investigated in Trials 1991, 1994 and 3678. Glucose-lowering effect (AUCGIR,SS and GIRmax,SS) 
was in the same range across trials. The variation in AUCGIR,SS and GIRmax,SS between dose levels as 
well as across trials was comparable for IGlar and IDeg. 
  Molar Dose Ratio 
The molar dose ratio between IDeg and IGlar was estimated based on an analysis of AUCGIR,τ,SS across 
the three dose levels of 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg in Trial 1993. The molar dose ratio was estimated to be 
1.03 [0.95; 1.12]95%CI, thus similar glucose-lowering effect of IDeg and IGlar was obtained when the 
two products were administered at identical molar doses. 
  Distribution and Fluctuation of Effect  
The ratio between glucose-lowering effect during the first 12 hours (AUCGIR,0-12h,SS) and glucose-
lowering effect during the entire dosing interval (AUCGIR,τ,SS) was 45-50% for IDeg and 57-60% for 
IGlar. This is in accordance with the distribution estimated for pharmacokinetic exposure. 
In addition, the fluctuation in glucose infusion rate (AUCFGIR,,SS) was calculated to illustrate how much 
the glucose infusion rate deviated from the individual mean. The estimated mean fluctuation values 
were lower for IDeg than for IGlar at all three dose levels, thus, the glucose infusion rate for IDeg was 
more consistent over the 24 hours compared to IGlar.  
  Duration of Action 
Duration of action of IDeg at steady state in subjects with T1DM was estimated during the 42-hour 
euglycaemic clamp. Duration of action was defined as the time from trial product administration until 
blood glucose concentration was consistently above 8.3 mmol/L (150 mg/dL) defined as end of action. 
With IDeg, mean and compiled individual blood glucose profiles showed that blood glucose did not 
exceed 8.3 mmol/L (150 mg/dL) within the 42-hour clamp period for any subject at the 0.6 and 
0.8 U/kg dose levels, and only for three subjects at the 0.4 U/kg dose level. Thus, end of action did not 
occur within the clamp period implying that duration of action extended beyond 42 hours for IDeg but 
could not be exactly estimated. For IGlar, blood glucose started to escape after 26 hours for several 
subjects at all three dose levels (Figure 7; data only shown for the 0.6 U/kg dose). 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 34/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7 42-Hour Mean and Compiled Individual Blood Glucose Profiles for IDeg (Left) and 
IGlar (Right) at Steady State in Subjects with T1DM 
0.6 U/kg IDeg 
0.6 U/kg IGlar 
Trial 1993. Black lines represent the mean. 
Since an exact duration of action could not be estimated, it was decided to estimate the difference in 
duration of action at steady state between IDeg and IGlar in an analysis using a binomial test. The 
analysis demonstrated that at all three dose levels, duration of action was longer for IDeg compared to 
IGlar, and the difference was statistically significant when the three dose levels are combined (Table 
4).  
Table 4 Comparison of Duration of Action between IDeg and IGlar at Steady State in 
Subjects with T1DM 
Dose (U/kg)  N 
IDeg = IGlar  IDeg longest 
IGlar longest  Unknowna 
p-valueb 
0.4  
0.6 
0.8 
All 
combined 
21  0 
21  0 
22  0 
64  0 
8 
7 
5 
20 
0 
0 
0 
0 
13 
14 
17 
44 
0.0078 
0.0156 
0.0625 
< 0.0001 
Trial 1993. N: number of subjects contributing to the analysis. 
a In these subjects, duration of action was beyond 42 hours for both IDeg and IGlar, i.e. it could not be determined 
for which trial product the duration of action was longest. 
b The p-value is from a test for treatment symmetry i.e. testing within the unequal observations if the probability of 
IDeg being longest is equal to the probability of IGlar being longest. 
Overall, the differences in duration of action between IDeg and IGlar were more apparent at the lower 
doses where more subjects reached end of action. At the dose levels investigated the effects well 
exceeds 24 hours, however, the duration of action appears to be dose dependent with some subjects 
experiencing an escape after approximately 30 hours at the lowest dose. The Applicant has provided 
both pharmacodynamic and clinical data to support the once daily use of doses lower than 0.2 U/kg in 
T1DM patients. 
Subjects with Type 2 Diabetes  
The steady-state pharmacodynamic properties of IDeg in subjects with T2DM were investigated in Trial 
1987. This trial was a randomised, single-centre, double-blind, two-period, incomplete block cross-
over, multiple-dose trial with 6 days of once-daily administration of 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg IDeg 100 
U/mL and 0.6 U/kg IDeg 200 U/mL. The pharmacodynamic properties of IDeg were investigated during 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 35/151 
 
 
 
 
 
a 26-hour euglycaemic clamp (target glucose level of 5.0 mmol/L [90 mg/dL]) conducted at steady 
state. In the following, results are presented only for IDeg 100 U/mL as this is the IDeg product 
relevant to characterise the basal component of IDegAsp. 
The mean 24-hour glucose infusion rate profiles obtained at steady state were flat and stable at all 
three dose levels, and the glucose-lowering effect increased with increasing dose (Figure 8). The 
glucose-lowering effect of IDeg increased with increasing dose (Table 5), and linearity was 
demonstrated (p = 0.83). The time to maximum glucose infusion rate was observed to be 10–13 hours 
after dosing, with a less pronounced peak compared to what was observed in T1DM subjects.  
Figure 8 24-Hour Mean Glucose Infusion Rate Profiles for IDeg at Steady State in Subjects 
with T2DM 
Left: Trial 1987; Right: Trial 3762 (only Caucasian subjects). 
Table 5 Glucose Infusion Rate Endpoints for IDeg at Steady State in Subjects with T2DM 
Dose 
AUCGIR,SS (mg/kg) 
GIRmax,SS (mg/kg·min) 
tGIRmax,,SS (h) 
(U/kg) 
N 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Median (CV%) 
0.4  
22  828 (68) 
1.1 (52) 
0.6  
37  1694 (56) 
1.7 (49) 
0.8  
21  2482 (46) 
2.4 (54) 
12.6 (70) 
10.5 (81) 
10.5 (61) 
Trial 1987. N: number of subjects contributing to the analysis; Geom. mean: geometric mean; CV%: coefficient of 
variation in %. 
  Duration of Action 
The duration of action of IDegAsp is determined by the basal component (IDeg). The duration of action 
of IDeg at steady state in subjects with T2DM was estimated during the 26-hour euglycaemic clamp as 
the time from trial product administration until blood glucose concentration was consistently above 8.3 
mmol/L (150 mg/dL), defined as end of action. 
Mean and compiled individual blood glucose profiles showed that blood glucose did not exceed 
8.3 mmol/L (150 mg/dL) within the 26-hour clamp period for any subject at any dose level. Thus, end 
of action did not occur within the clamp period implying that duration of action extended beyond 26 
hours for IDeg, but could not be exactly estimated. Since insulin requirements are usually higher in 
T2DM than in T1DM, a 24-hour coverage with IDeg would be expected in clinical use. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 36/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variability of Pharmacodynamic Properties 
The pharmacodynamic within-subject day-to-day variability of IDeg at steady state was investigated in 
Trial 1991. This trial was a randomised, single-centre, double-blind, parallel-group trial with 12 days of 
once-daily administration of 0.4 U/kg IDeg or 0.4 U/kg IGlar in subjects with T1DM. The glucose-
lowering effect was assessed on treatment days 6, 9 and 12, and the day-to-day variability was 
measured as the within-subject coefficient of variation (CV) corresponding to the difference in the 
glucose-lowering effect from one insulin injection to another under comparable conditions in the same 
subject. 
In Figure 9, the individual CVs (%) for AUCGIR,τ,SS are presented in increasing order for the two 
treatment groups (IDeg and IGlar). The estimated differences in day-to-day variability between IDeg 
and IGlar were driven by the majority of the subjects in the IGlar group. The individual day-to-day 
variability was consistently lower for IDeg compared to IGlar when presented in ranked order and CV 
was low (< 50%) for all subjects treated with IDeg (Figure 9).  
Figure 9 Individual Day-to-Day Variability in Glucose-Lowering Effect for IDeg and IGlar at 
Steady State in Subjects with T1DM 
AUCGIR,τ,SS 
Trial 1991: 0.4 U/kg IDeg or 0.4 U/kg IGlar. 
Statistical analysis showed that the day-to-day variability in AUCGIR,τ,SS measured as CV was 4 times 
lower for IDeg compared to IGlar (Table 6). The same difference between IDeg and IGlar was obtained 
for AUCGIR,2-24h,SS, which is a more clinically relevant endpoint, since the measured glucose infusion rate 
from 2 hours onwards is not influenced by i.v. insulin infusion at the start of the euglycaemic clamp.  
Table 6 Day-to-Day Variability in Glucose-Lowering Effect for IDeg and IGlar at Steady State 
in Subjects with T1DM 
Endpoint 
IDeg (CV%) 
IGlar (CV%) 
p-value 
AUCGIR,τ,SS  
AUCGIR,2-24h,SS 
GIRmax,SS 
20 
22 
18 
82 
92 
60 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
Trial 1991: 0.4 U/kg IDeg or 0.4 U/kg IGlar. CV%: coefficient of variation in %. 
An analysis of the area under the glucose infusion rate curve in 2-hour intervals was also performed. 
The day-to-day variability of IDeg was consistently low over the entire 24-hour period, whereas the 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 37/151 
 
 
 
 
 
variability of IGlar was significantly higher and increased substantially 6–8 hours after dosing reaching 
a maximum at 14-16 hours after dosing, where variability was 7 times greater compared to IDeg 
(Figure 10). Mean CVs for IDeg were 33% for AUCGIR,0-2h, 33% for AUCGIR,10-12h and 33% for 
AUCGIR,22-24h, and mean CVs for IGlar were 60% for AUCGIR,0-2h, 135% for AUCGIR,10-12h and 115% for 
AUCGIR,22-24h). 
Figure 10. Day-to-day Variability in Glucose-Lowering Effect over Time for IDeg and IGlar at 
Steady State in Subjects with T1DM 
Trial 1991: 0.4 U/kg IDeg or 0.4 U/kg IGlar. 
The effects of the measured variability were modelled to predict the clinical impact of the lower 
pharmacodynamic day-to-day variability of IDeg versus IGlar. The width of the prediction interval 
reflects the day-to-day variability in the pharmacodynamic response. The predicted range was found to 
be narrower for IDeg compared to IGlar. Furthermore, it was predicted that the risk of experiencing 
less than half the usual average effect (i.e. an average glucose infusion rate < 1 mg/kg·min) on any 
given day (i.e., potential hyperglycaemia) was <0.1% for IDeg and 17% for IGlar. 
Similarly, the risk of experiencing more than 1.5 times the usual average effect (i.e. an average 
glucose infusion rate > 3 mg/kgmin) on any given day (i.e. potential hypoglycaemia) was calculated to 
be 2% for IDeg and 29% for IGlar. Thus, the lower variability in glucose-lowering effect with IDeg 
compared to IGlar is hypothesised by the Applicant to result both in a lower risk of hyper- and 
hypoglycaemia for the IDeg component in IDegAsp.  
Injection Regions  
The use of various injection regions (abdominal wall, the thigh, the upper arm (the deltoid region) or 
the gluteal region) has been established and demonstrated through several years of market use of the 
prandial component (IAsp) of IDegAsp.  
The pharmacodynamic response of IDeg between different injection regions and routes of 
administration was evaluated during a 24-hour euglycaemic clamp (target glucose level of 4.5 mmol/L 
[81 mg/dL]) in Trial 1992. This was a randomised, single-centre, open-label, five-period cross-over 
trial with single-dose administration of 0.4 U/kg IDeg s.c. in the thigh, the abdomen and the deltoid 
(upper arm), 0.4 U/kg IDeg i.m. in the thigh, and 0.04 U/kg IDeg i.v., respectively, on five different 
dosing visits in healthy subjects. 
Mean glucose infusion rate profiles showed that the glucose-lowering effect was similar following 0.4 
U/kg IDeg administered s.c. in the thigh, the abdomen and the deltoid, and extended beyond 
24 hours, and descriptive statistics supported these findings (Table 7). Thus, the differences in 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 38/151 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacokinetic properties observed following s.c. administration in the abdomen or the deltoid 
compared to the thigh were not accompanied by differences in glucose-lowering effect. A slight 
numerical difference in AUC and GIR was, however, observed with the largest difference seen between 
“thigh” and “deltoid”. With the responses to the Day120 LoQ the Applicant provided simulations 
showing that the observed differences decrease at steady state, indicating that the observed 
differences are not clinically relevant. 
Table 7 Glucose Infusion Rate Endpoints for IDeg after Single Dose in the Thigh, Abdomen 
and Deltoid in Healthy Subjects 
AUCGIR,0-24h,SD (mg/kg) 
GIRmax,SD (mg/kg·min) 
tGIRmax,SD (h) 
Injection Region 
N 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Median (CV%) 
Thigh 
19 
2572 (38) 
Abdomen 
20 
2833 (42) 
Deltoid 
20 
2960 (43) 
2.7 (32) 
3.0 (37) 
3.0 (42) 
13.2 (34) 
11.1 (43) 
12.4 (36) 
Trial 1992: 0.4 U/kg. N: number of subjects contributing to the analysis; Geom. mean: geometric mean; CV%: 
coefficient of variation in %. 
Routes of Administration: Intramuscular vs. Subcutaneous Injection 
The mean glucose infusion rate was higher following i.m. administration of IDeg compared to s.c. 
administration in the thigh and descriptive statistics supported these findings (Table 8). The significant 
change in maximum concentration and duration of appearance is, however, not reflected to the same 
extent in the pharmacodynamic profile as in the pharmacokinetic profile. However, due to the 
increased glucose lowering effect observed, i.m. injections should be avoided. Section 4.2 of the SmPC 
includes adequate wording to this respect. 
Table 8 Glucose Infusion Rate Endpoints for IDeg after Single Dose i.m. and s.c. in Healthy 
Subjects 
Administration 
AUCGIR,0-24h,SD (mg/kg) 
GIRmax,SD (mg/kg·min) 
tGIRmax,SD (h) 
Route 
N 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Geom. mean (CV%) 
Median (CV%) 
i.m. 
s.c. 
19 
3269 (25) 
19 
2572 (38) 
3.4 (24) 
2.7 (32) 
12.4 (38) 
13.2 (34) 
Trial 1992: 0.4 U/kg. N: number of subjects contributing to the analysis; Geom. mean: geometric mean; CV%: 
coefficient of variation in %. 
Intrinsic Factors 
Body Mass Index (BMI) 
The effect of BMI on pharmacodynamic endpoints for IDeg was investigated in subjects with T1DM 
(across Trials 1991, 1993, 1994 and 3678), and in subjects with T2DM (across Trials 1987 and 3762). 
Similar analyses were made for IDegAsp in subjects with T1DM (across Trials 1977, 1981, 3539 and 
3857), and in subjects with T2DM (Trial 1978). The endpoints (AUCGIR,τ,SS and GIRmax,SS for IDeg trials 
and AUCGIR,0-24h,SD and GIRmax,SD for IDegAsp trials) were log-transformed and analysed in a linear 
mixed model with sex, dose and period within trial as fixed effects, and subject as a random effect. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 39/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For both IDegAsp after single dose and IDeg (the basal component alone) at steady state, scatter plots 
indicated that total and maximum glucose-lowering effect decreased with increasing BMI in subjects 
with either T1DM or T2DM, and statistical analyses showed that the correlation was significant. This is 
in line with the well-known association between obesity and insulin resistance. 
Age 
Children and Adolescents 
The pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp in children and adolescents in comparison to adults were 
investigated in Trial 1982 by means of a meal test. Trial 1982 was a single-centre, open-label, parallel 
group trial with single-dose administration of 0.5 U/kg IDegAsp in children (6–11 years), adolescents 
(12–17 years) and adults (18–65 years) with T1DM. 
The shape of the mean plasma glucose profiles obtained over a period of 6 hours following trial product 
administration and meal ingestion was similar in children, adolescents and adults.  
The glucose-lowering effect of IDegAsp (as assessed from AUCPG baseline,0-6h,std.meal,SD) was comparable 
for children, adolescents and adults although with a large between-subject variability. Maximum 
plasma glucose concentration after a standard meal (PGmax,meal,SD) and maximum plasma glucose 
excursion (Delta PGmax,meal,SD) were comparable for children, adolescents and adults based on 
descriptive statistics. 
In addition to the reporting by age group described in the objectives of Trial 1982, the 
pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp were also reported by pubertal status according to Tanner 
stage scoring. Based on the Tanner stage scores, 6 subjects were categorised as pre-pubertal, and 
19 subjects were categorised as pubertal. In accordance with the pharmacodynamic response analysed 
by age group, there were no apparent differences between the pharmacodynamic response for the pre-
pubertal, pubertal and adult groups.  
Geriatric Subjects 
The pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp in geriatric subjects in comparison to younger adult 
subjects were investigated in Trial 1981. This was a randomised, single-centre, double-blind, cross-
over trial with single-dose administration of 0.5 U/kg of IDegAsp and BIAsp 30 in younger adult 
(18−35 years) and geriatric (≥65 years) subjects with T1DM. The pharmacodynamic properties were 
investigated during a 26-hour euglycaemic clamp (target glucose level of 5.5 mmol/L [100 mg/dL]). 
The mean 24-hour glucose infusion rate profile for IDegAsp after single dose were similar in geriatric 
and younger adult subjects with T1DM as was the pharmacodynamic response (based on 
AUCGIR,0-24h,SD) with an estimated ratio and 95% CI of 1.01 [0.69; 1.47]95%CI for geriatric/younger 
adults.  
Furthermore, the tendency towards greater IAsp exposure in geriatric subjects than in younger adult 
subjects was not reflected in a similar tendency for the early glucose lowering effect, as also indicated 
by descriptive statistics of AUCGIR,0-6h,SD and GIRmax,SD. Altogether, these findings are in line with the 
fact that insulin sensitivity is known to decrease with ageing. 
IDegAsp Compared With BIAsp 30 in Geriatric and Younger Adult Subjects 
Mean glucose infusion rate profiles and descriptive statistics showed that the similarities and 
differences between IDegAsp and BIAsp 30 were preserved in geriatric subjects: In particular, the 
prandial and basal components were more clearly separated with IDegAsp than BIAsp 30, while 
maintaining a similar rapid onset of action and time to maximum glucose-lowering effect (Figure 11). 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 40/151 
 
 
 
 
In addition, there was no difference between IDegAsp and BIAsp 30 with respect to the effect of age 
group on AUCGIR,0-24h,SD and GIRmax,SD (p=0.75 and p=0.25, respectively).  
Figure 11 24-Hour Mean Glucose Infusion Rate Profiles after Single Dose IDegAsp and BIAsp 
30 in Geriatric Subjects (Left) and Younger Adult Subjects (Right) with T1DM 
Geriatric Subjects 
Younger Adult 
Subjects 
Trial 1981: 0.5 U/kg IDegAsp and 0.5 U/kg BIAsp 30. 
Sex 
Single Dose 
The glucose-lowering effect after a single dose of IDegAsp was compared between women and men in 
a statistical analysis across Trials 1977, 1981 (only younger adult subjects), 3539 and 3857 including 
13 women and 85 men. The endpoints AUCGIR,0-24h,SD and GIRmax,SD were dose-adjusted to 0.4 U/kg, 
log-transformed and analysed in a linear mixed model with sex, dose and period within trial as fixed 
effects and subject as a random effect. The estimated mean total (AUCGIR,0-24,SD) and maximum 
(GIRmax,SD) glucose lowering effects after a single dose of IDegAsp were comparable for women and 
men when dosed per kg body weight.  
Steady State 
The results from an across trial analysis with IDeg trials are used to describe the pharmacodynamic 
properties at steady-state of the basal component of IDegAsp in women and men. 
The glucose-lowering effect of IDeg at steady state following 6 to 8 days of once-daily administration 
of IDeg was compared between women and men in a statistical analysis across Trials 1991, 1993, 
1994 and 3678 including 22 women and 113 men with T1DM. To ensure comparable conditions across 
the four trials, results obtained in geriatric subjects (Trial 1994) and with IDeg 200 U/mL (Trial 3678) 
were not included. The endpoint, AUCGIR,τ,SS, was dose-adjusted to 0.4 U/kg, log-transformed and 
analysed in a similar model as the sex analysis for IDegAsp. 
The total and maximum glucose-lowering effect of IDeg was greater in women than in men, and this 
was confirmed by statistical analysis, as 1 was not included in the 95% CI.  
Previous studies have shown that women have comparable or a higher insulin sensitivity than men, 
thus the findings are as expected.  
Response to hypoglycaemia 
The response to controlled hypoglycaemia induced by IDeg or IGlar after multiple doses was 
investigated in subjects with T1DM (Trial 3538) applying a hypoglycaemic clamp technique. Relevant 
glucose-lowering was achieved for both IDeg and IGlar.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 41/151 
 
 
 
 
 
The difference in counter-regulatory hormone response during development of hypoglycaemia was 
estimated as the treatment ratio between the slopes of the hormone profiles for IDeg and IGlar. There 
was a greater increase in the counter-regulatory hormone response with IDeg compared to IGlar for 
adrenaline (epinephrine) (1.07 [1.01; 1.14]95%CI). In addition, there was a greater increase for growth 
hormone (1.35 [1.19; 1.54]95%CI), and a trend towards a slightly greater increase for cortisol 
(1.03 [1.00; 1.06]95%CI). The effect on noradrenaline (norepinephrine) and glucagon was similar for 
IDeg and IGlar. This was supported by a statistical analysis of the estimated area under the hormone 
profile (Table 9). There was no difference in the hormone levels between IDeg and IGlar at baseline.  
There was no statistically significant difference between IDeg and IGlar with regards to pulse or blood 
pressure at the different glucose levels. 
Table 9 Ratios between Hormone Profiles for IDeg and IGlar during Development of 
Hypoglycaemia in Subjects with T1DM 
Hormone 
Estimate [95% CI] 
P-value 
AUCHormone,IDeg / AUCHormone,IGlar 
Adrenaline (epinephrine) 
1.40 [0.96; 2.04] 
Growth hormone 
2.44 [1.30; 4.60] 
Cortisol 
1.23 [1.01; 1.50] 
Noradrenaline (norepinephrine)  1.17 [0.85; 1.60] 
Glucagon 
1.16 [0.91; 1.48] 
Trial 3538: individual doses; N=26. CI: confidence interval. 
0.07 
0.01 
0.04 
0.32 
0.21 
Recovery from hypoglycaemia and the time to re-establishment of euglycaemia was not different 
between IDeg and IGlar; however, after blood glucose had been raised to 3.9 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), less 
glucose was needed to alleviate hypoglycaemia for IDeg compared with IGlar as shown by glucose 
infusion rate profiles and statistical analysis of AUCGIR,0-2h,recovery (0.68 [0.49; 0.95]95%CI) and AUCGIR,PG 
nadir end - 2h (0.71 [0.53; 0.93]95%CI). The clinical relevance of this finding remains to be shown. During 
recovery from hypoglycaemia, all hypoglycaemic response assessments returned to baseline in a 
similar manner for IDeg and IGlar. Thus the hypoglycaemic clamp did not reveal any attenuation of the 
counter-regulation in response to hypoglycaemia with IDeg as compared to IGlar. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
As IDegAsp is a co-formulation of the long acting IDeg and the rapid-acting IAsp, it follows that the 
pharmacokinetic properties of IDegAsp should be described by both of these two pharmacokinetic 
profiles. The pharmacokinetic profiles of IAsp and IDeg are consistent with the action profile of 
IDegAsp showing distinct and separate prandial and basal components. As is also seen with other 
subcutaneously administered insulin products, the pharmacodynamic action lagged slightly behind the 
pharmacokinetic profile, most likely as a result of tissue distribution from the plasma compartment and 
activation of insulin receptors in the target tissues. 
For the prandial effect of IDegAsp, the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties were 
characterised in the dose range (0.4 to 0.8 U/kg) of IDegAsp. 
There was a correlation between early or maximum exposure and early or maximum glucose-lowering 
effect for the prandial component of IDegAsp in subjects with T1DM. This was supported by the 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 42/151 
 
 
 
 
 
observation that both Cmax,IAsp,SD and GIRmax,SD of IDegAsp increased proportionally with increasing 
dose. 
For the basal component of IDegAsp, the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties were 
characterised in a the dose range (0.4 to 0.8 U/kg) of IDeg. There was a correlation between total 
exposure (AUCIDeg,,SS) and total glucose-lowering effect (AUCGIR,,SS) within the investigated dose 
range of IDeg in subjects with T1DM. This was supported by the observation that both AUCIDeg,,SS and 
AUCGIR,,SS of IDeg at steady state increased proportionally with increasing dose.  
Dosing Recommendations 
The basal component of IDegAsp is present in the circulation for at least 120 hours and has an 
estimated t½ of approximately 25 hours, supporting the duration of action beyond 42 hours. Given the 
long duration of action and the continuous absorption of the basal component in IDegAsp, the same 
total daily dose may be administered once daily or split in two administrations, with respect to basal 
coverage. Moreover, the long duration of action for the basal component in IDegAsp permits once-daily 
dosing with the ability to vary the daily injection time, if needed, as long as the dose is administered 
with the main meal(s) to accommodate the IAsp in the formulation.  
For the IAsp component in IDegAsp, it is well-established that the molar dose ratio between IAsp and 
human insulin is 1, i.e. the glucose-lowering effect of IAsp is similar to human insulin when given in 
identical doses. The molar dose ratio between IDeg and IGlar was estimated based on a statistical 
analysis of AUCGIR,τ,SS across the three dose levels of 0.4, 0.6 and 0.8 U/kg in Trial 1993. The molar 
dose ratio was estimated to be 1.03 [0.95; 1.12]95%CI, thus similar glucose-lowering effect of IDeg and 
IGlar was obtained when the two products were administered at identical molar doses. The data are 
deemed sufficient to conclude that 1 U of IDeg 100 U/mL corresponds to 1 U of all other insulin 
analogues and to 1 IU of human insulin. 
Investigations of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp and IDeg in special 
populations (children, adolescents, geriatric subjects, subjects with renal or hepatic impairment, and 
subjects of different race and ethnicity) did not indicate a need for any special precautions. Thus, the 
dose adjustment of IDegAsp, as with all other insulin products, should be based on individual needs. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicinal products or substances  
No discussion on pharmacodynamic interactions has been provided by the applicant. This is acceptable 
considering the mechanism of action. Pharmacodynamic interactions known for other insulins are 
expected to occur also for IDeg and these interactions are sufficiently reflected in the SmPC. 
Genetic differences in PD response 
The pharmacodynamic properties of IDeg at steady state were investigated in African American, 
Hispanic and Caucasian Subjects. The mean glucose infusion rate profiles at steady state were similar 
for the three race/ethnic groups. No statistically significant or clinically relevant differences were 
observed in the pharmacodynamic profiles. 
Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp and IDeg alone have been compared 
between Japanese (Trials 1983 and 1996) and Caucasian (Trials 3857 and 1993) subjects. In addition, 
the pharmacodynamic properties of BIAsp 30 have been compared between Japanese subjects 
(Trial 1983) and Caucasian subjects (Trial 1981).  
As in Caucasian subjects, the shape of the mean GIR profile for IDegAsp was similar to that of BIAsp 
30 during the first 4 hours after injection in Japanese subjects, but the pharmacodynamic effects of the 
prandial and basal components of IDegAsp were more clearly separated with IDegAsp than BIAsp 30. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 43/151 
 
 
 
 
The shape of the pharmacodynamic profile of IDegAsp was similar in Japanese and Caucasian subjects. 
The pharmacodynamic response of IDegAsp was generally lower in Japanese than in Caucasian 
subjects. However, a lower pharmacodynamic response in Japanese than Caucasian subjects was also 
observed for BIAsp 30. Since the shape of the mean glucose infusion rate profiles was similar in 
Japanese and Caucasian subjects, the observed differences were not believed to have any important 
clinical implications, considering that IDegAsp, as any insulin, should be dosed according to individual 
needs. In addition, the differences should be interpreted with caution as the results are obtained at 
different investigational sites using different equipment. 
In Japanese subjects with T1DM, the glucose-lowering effect of IDeg was slightly lower compared to 
Caucasian subjects. This was supported by descriptive statistics. The shape of the mean glucose 
infusion rate profiles was similar in Japanese and Caucasian subjects. The data, however, does not 
indicate any clinically relevant differences between Japanese and Caucasian subjects. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
IDegAsp is a combination of a new long acting insulin analogue and a well-known fast acting insulin 
analogue. The IDeg component of the product needs to be described to an extent expected for a new 
chemical entity. This could be done using either only IDeg or IDeg as part of the combination 
depending on the situation. 
The characterisation of IDeg is expected to include an evaluation of the influence of intrinsic factors 
(BMI, age, sex, race/ethnicity, renal and hepatic function) and extrinsic factors (drug interactions) on 
its PK. Moreover, it is anticipated that new insulin analogues are documented in comparison to other 
insulin analogues with similar pharmacological profiles. One specific aspect of interest in this 
comparison is how variable the new analogue is (intra-individual variability). The influence on PK due 
to different injection sites and different injection volumes are also expected to be studied. 
The IDegAsp consists of 30% IAsp and 70% IDeg, IDeg being a new long-acting insulin analogue. At 
the target tissues, IDeg and IAsp monomers bind to and activate insulin receptors triggering the 
same cellular effects as human insulin such as promoting glucose uptake as confirmed by the non-
clinical data. The mechanism of action of IDeg is similar to that of other insulins, only with a slightly 
lower activity and prolonged duration of action. 
The pharmacodynamic profile of IDegAsp and IDeg has been investigated through a well-designed 
development program including studies in both T1DM and T2DM patients as well as healthy volunteers. 
The PD profile was similar for the mixed formulation and when IDeg and Asp was given as separate 
doses.  A proportional dose-response relationship was shown for IDegAsp in patients with T1DM 
whereas a linear dose-response was observed in patients with T2DM.  
When compared to a single dose of BIAsp, a lower peak of the short-acting component and longer 
duration of action were observed both in T1DM and T2DM patients. The effect of the Asp component 
also appears to decline faster for IDegAsp than for BIAsp. Individual data indicate that the inter-
individual variability may be lower with IDegAsp than with BIAsp. In T1DM, the dose adjusted data 
across trials for AUCGIR and GIRmax were consistent although with some variation.  
In addition to the PD data on IDegAsp, data from studies performed with the long-acting component 
IDeg has also been provided. Data has been provided to supports that the molar dose is equipotent 
and that one unit of IDeg corresponds to one unit of IGlar. These data are deemed sufficient to 
conclude that 1 U of IDeg 100 U/mL corresponds to 1 U of all other insulin analogues and to 1 IU of 
human insulin. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 44/151 
 
 
 
 
Data in both T1DM and T2DM patients show that IDeg has a flatter profile than IGlar, with a slight 
peak observed about 10-12 hours after dosing especially at higher doses. In T1DM, the dose adjusted 
data across trials for AUCGIR and GIRmax were consistent although with some variation especially within 
trial 1993. Due to the long duration of action for IDeg, an exact duration of action could not be 
estimated. At the dose levels investigated (0.4-0.8 U/kg) the effect well exceeds 24 hours, however, 
the duration of action appears to be dose dependent with some T1DM subjects experiencing an escape 
after approximately 30 hours at the lowest dose. Additional PD data provided by the Applicant show 
that the duration of action exceeded 24 hours when a dose of 0.28 U/kg was tested. Further to this, a 
subgroup analysis in T1DM patients treated with doses ≤ 0.2 U/kg OD within the clinical trial program 
support a 24-hour coverage with once daily dosing. Since insulin requirements are usually higher in 
T2DM, 24-hour coverage with IDeg would be expected in clinical use. 
In a study dedicated to investigate the intra-individual variability it was shown that the variability, both 
with regards to AUCGIR,τ,SS and GIRmax was significantly lower for IDeg compared to IGlar. The Applicant 
hypothesises a decreased risk for both hyperglycaemia and hypoglycaemia with IDeg compared to 
IGlar. However, whether this lower variability actually transforms into a clinical benefit remains to be 
seen and it is considered premature to make clinical claims solely on the PD observations. 
Very similar PD profiles were obtained for IDeg irrespective of injection site. A slight difference in AUC 
and GIR was observed with the largest difference seen between “thigh” and “deltoid”. Data has been 
provided, showing that these differences will diminish at steady state. The information included in the 
SmPC is considered adequate. Although the PD profile was essentially similar with i.m. and s.c. 
injection, a higher peak was observed with i.m. injection together with higher AUC and GIR. Therefore 
i.m. injections should be avoided and adequate warnings are included in section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
Considering the long duration of action of IDeg, it is of importance that the response to hypoglycaemia 
is adequate. The data obtained by the hypoglycaemic clamp did not reveal any attenuation of the 
counter-regulation in response to hypoglycaemia with IDeg as compared to IGlar. Less glucose was 
needed to reverse the hypoglycaemia induced by IDeg, the clinical relevance of this finding is 
unknown.  
The influence of age on the effect of IDegAsp was investigated in dedicated trials. The differences in 
the PD profile were greater for BIAsp between geriatric patients and younger adults than for IDegAsp. 
A slightly lower glucose-lowering effect of IDegAsp was observed for geriatric subjects at steady state, 
in line with the decreasing insulin sensitivity with age. The results from study 1982 indicate that the 
glucose lowering effect of the prandial component of IDegAsp is similar in children, adolescents and 
adults. Thus, the greater exposure of IAsp seen in children with IDegAsp, were not reflected in the 
pharmacodynamic results.  
The influence of BMI and sex and IDeg was investigated in across trial analyses. As expected, the 
glucose-lowering effect of IDeg and IDegAsp decreased with increasing BMI. After a single dose, no 
significant differences were observed between sexes. At steady state the glucose-lowering effect of 
IDeg was higher in women compared to men. This is as expected and in line with previous studies 
showing that insulin sensitivity is either similar or greater in women compared to men.  
No statistically or clinically relevant differences were observed in the PD profile for patients of different 
ethnic origin.  
No discussion on pharmacodynamic interactions has been provided by the Applicant. This is acceptable 
considering the mechanism of action. Pharmacodynamic interactions known for other insulins are 
expected to occur also for IDegAsp and these interactions are sufficiently reflected in section 4.5 of the 
SmPC. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 45/151 
 
 
 
 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The applicant has performed a very comprehensive development program which in part is based on 
studies with only IDeg and in part from studies with IDegAsp. The studies performed clearly covers 
more than what could be considered the minimum requirements regarding PK characterisation. 
The pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp has been adequately characterised in a well-designed 
program. IDegAsp has been shown to have a clear distinction between the short-acting component and 
the long-acting component, which has a flatter profile than currently available long-acting insulins. 
There are indications that the long-acting component has less intra-individual variability than IGlar, the 
clinical benefit of this finding remains to be seen.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
The clinical development programme evaluating the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp includes five 
therapeutic confirmatory trials and 3 therapeutic exploratory trials conducted between 
23 January 2008 and 23 December 2010 (see Table 10). In addition to the trials with IDegAsp, key 
results from two confirmatory clinical trials (Trials NN1250-3770 and NN1250-3668) in the IDeg 
development programme (NN1250) are discussed. The two trials explore extreme variation in injection 
time of IDeg and the data are included to support flexible dosing of IDegAsp with the understanding 
that flexibility of this product is restricted to the meals due to the presence of the bolus component of 
IAsp in the formulation.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 46/151 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 Overview of IDegAsp therapeutic Confirmatory Trials 
Trial N
o. 
Trial Desc
ription 
Populat
ion 
Duration 
(Weeks) 
OAD 
Combinat
ion 
Randomisa
tion 
(IDegAsp: 
Comparato
r) 
No. of 
Subjects 
Randomis
ed 
Antidiabetic 
Treatment at 
Screening 
Stratification 
T1DM 
3594 
26 (+ 26-
week 
extension, 
NN5401-
3645) 
IDegAsp 
OD + IAsp 
vs. IDet† + 
IAsp 
None 
Insulin-
treated 
2:1 
IDegAsp: 
366 
IDet: 182 
Basal–bolus 
insulin regimen 
or other mixed 
insulin regimen  
Prior treatment:  
• basal–bolus insulin 
regimen  
• other insulin 
regimen 
T2DM 
3590 
26 
3593 
26 
3592 
26 
3597 
26 
Metformin 
Metformin  
± 
pioglitazon
e 
± DPP-4 
inhibitor 
± 
metformin  
± 
pioglitazon
e 
± DPP-4 
inhibitor 
± 
metformin 
IDegAsp 
OD vs. 
IGlar OD 
IDegAsp 
OD vs. 
IGlar OD 
IDegAsp 
BID vs. 
BIAsp 30 
BID 
IDegAsp 
BID vs. 
BIAsp 30 
BID 
Insulin-
naïve 
Insulin-
treated 
1:1 
1:1 
IDegAsp: 
266 
IGlar: 263 
IDegAsp : 
230 
IGlar: 233 
Metformin and 
≥1 other OAD 
except TZD 
Basal insulin OD 
and metformin 
± other OADs 
None 
Prior treatment: 
• TZD Yes 
• TZD No 
Insulin-
treated 
1:1 
IDegAsp: 
224 
BIAsp 30: 
222 
Premixed/self-
mixed insulin 
OD or BID ± 
OADs 
Prior treatment:  
• OD insulin regimen 
• BID insulin regimen 
Insulin-
treated 
2:1 
IDegAsp: 
280  
BIAsp 30: 
142 
Basal insulin OD 
or BID ± 
metformin or 
premixed/self-
mixed insulin 
OD or BID ± 
metformin 
Prior treatment: 
• basal without 
metformin  
• basal with 
metformin 
• premix without 
metformin 
• premix with 
metformin 
†OD from start, but a second IDet dose could be added after 8 weeks in case of inadequate glycaemic control. 
BIAsp: biphasic insulin aspart; BID: twice daily; DPP-4: di-peptidyl peptidase-4; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDet: insulin 
detemir; IGlar: insulin glargine; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; TZD: thiazolidinedione. 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
For dose-response studies, please refer to the pharmacodynamic part of this report. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
Methods 
The therapeutic confirmatory trials were similar in design. All the trials were randomised, controlled, 
parallel-group, open label, multicentre, multinational trials, in which IDegAsp was compared with an 
active comparator. The comparators represent the currently available insulin analogues and included 
IDet, BIAsp 30 BID or IGlar OD. The trial duration was 26 weeks to ensure that stable glycaemic 
control was maintained for a sufficient time period. To evaluate long-term safety of IDegAsp, 
Trials 3594 and 3590 were extended by an additional trial period of 26 weeks (Table 10).  
All the therapeutic confirmatory trials were conducted with a treat-to-target principle; the insulin dose 
was adjusted for each individual subject with the aim of achieving identical glycaemic targets for 
IDegAsp and comparator products. Because both the IDegAsp and the comparator treatment were 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 47/151 
 
 
 
 
 
adjusted to achieve glycaemic targets, a non-inferiority design was applied for all studies. Focus was 
thus also on other parameters, for instance the rate of hypoglycaemia. The clinical program is 
considered adequate as well as the overall design of the studies. 
All trials included a 1-week follow-up period after completion of the treatment period.  
All trials were conducted at sites across different continents except therapeutic confirmatory Trial 3597, 
which included sites in Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Taiwan only. 
Study Participants  
Inclusion Criteria 
The inclusion criteria regarding diabetes duration and current anti-diabetic treatment were set to 
ensure that all subjects qualified for intensified treatment and thus reflected the intended diabetes 
population. An upper HbA1c limit of 10.0% was introduced in all except one trial to ensure that 
noncompliant subjects were excluded. Subjects with an HbA1c of 7.0–10.0% (both inclusive) were 
eligible, whereas for insulin-naïve subjects (Trial 3590) an HbA1c of 7.5–11% (both inclusive) was 
required for inclusion.  
Exclusion Criteria 
The exclusion criteria were set to ensure a trial population in a stable disease state who were able to 
adhere to trial procedures. Subjects with significant concomitant illness, including renal impairment, 
were excluded, as they may need individualised therapy with less stringent treatment goals. Anti-
diabetic treatments that may interfere significantly with trial endpoints were not allowed 3 months 
before screening, allowing an appropriate time for wash-out of such treatments before the trial. 
Treatments 
The drug product IDegAsp (100 U/mL, corresponding to 600 nmol/mL) contains the drug substances 
IDeg and IAsp. This product contains the drug substances IDeg and IAsp in the ratio 70/30.  The 
FlexPen, currently used with Novo Nordisk A/S marketed products, was used for IDegAsp 
administration in Trials 1791, 1792, 3594, 3592, 3597 and 3593. The PDS290 prefilled pen-injector, 
used for IDegAsp administration in Trial 3590, is currently under development for use with 
IDeg/IDegAsp.  
In T1DM (Trial 3594), subjects were transferred unit-to-unit from their pre-trial insulin treatment to 
IDegAsp OD + IAsp at remaining meals or IDet OD + IAsp at all meals. Insulin-naïve subjects with 
T2DM (Trial 3590) were initiated on once-daily insulin treatment with 10 U IDegAsp or IGlar. In the 
other T2DM trials (Trials 3593, 3592 and 3597), subjects switching from basal, premix or self-mixed 
insulin therapy were transferred to IDegAsp or comparator at the identical total insulin doses (unit-to-
unit) as the subject’s previous total daily insulin dose.  
The starting doses for insulin-naïve subjects in the therapeutic exploratory trials were 10 U 
administered before dinner (Trial 1791) or 6 U for breakfast and 6 U for dinner (Trial 1792).  
The initiation of IDegAsp or switch to IDegAsp was followed by dose optimisation and titration.  
All the therapeutic confirmatory trials were conducted with a treat-to-target principle; the dose was 
adjusted for each individual subject with the aim of achieving identical glycaemic targets for IDegAsp 
and comparator products. The overall treatment goal in all therapeutic confirmatory trials was to 
achieve HbA1c <7% and a pre-breakfast (fasting) SMPG <5.0 mmol/L (90 mg/dL). In trials with BID 
dosing an additional titration target of SMPG <5.0 mmol/L before the main evening meal was applied 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 48/151 
 
 
 
 
for adjustment of the morning dose. The titration algorithm specified the recommended dose 
adjustments for IDegAsp and comparator at different PG levels.  
Across the trials, various dosing times of IDegAsp were investigated. IDegAsp was dosed either OD or 
BID; please see Table 11.  
Table 11 Dosing Schedules – Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials 
 Trial  IDegAsp  
IDegAsp dosing time 
Comparator 
dosing 
interval 
T1DM 
 3594 
OD 
with any main meal of the day (injection 
time could be moved to another meal at 
any time during the trial) 
IDeta at the same time each day 
T2DM 
 3592 
BID 
with breakfast meal and main evening meal  BIAsp 30 BID with breakfast meal and 
main evening meal 
 3597 
BID 
with breakfast meal and main evening meal  BIAsp 30 BID with breakfast meal and 
 3593 
OD 
 3590 
OD 
with any mealb (same meal throughout 
trial) 
with breakfast meal 
main evening meal 
IGlar OD according to label 
IGlar OD according to label 
aDosed OD at evening meal or bedtime with the option of BID dosing after 8 weeks (i.e. a second IDet dose could 
be added after 8 weeks in case of inadequate glycaemic control). bEvening meal or the largest meal. 
Concomitant Antidiabetic Treatment 
Prandial bolus IAsp was used as concomitant treatment in Trial 3594 involving subjects with T1DM. 
IAsp was administered with all insulin requiring meals in the IDet arm and with the remaining insulin-
requiring meals not covered by IDegAsp in the IDegAsp arm. No other concomitant antidiabetic 
treatment was allowed for subjects with T1DM.  
The therapeutic confirmatory trials investigated the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp in combination with 
various types of OADs. It was required that subjects had been treated with the mandatory or allowed 
OADs for at least 3 months before inclusion in the trials. Use of insulin secretagogues, alpha-
glucosidase inhibitors and GLP-1 agonists were not allowed as concomitant medication in any of the 
trials. 
Choice of Comparator 
In the therapeutic confirmatory trials including subjects with T2DM, IGlar OD was chosen as 
comparator to IDegAsp dosed OD, and BIAsp 30 BID was chosen as comparator to IDegAsp dosed BID. 
IGlar OD was selected as it exhibits a duration of action of around 24 hours and is approved for OD 
dosing. Furthermore, IGlar OD is one of the most widely used basal insulin analogues world-wide and 
has a well-known efficacy and safety profile. IDegAsp dosed OD was not compared to basal insulin in 
combination with one bolus injection as such a regimen did not reflect clinical practice when the 
confirmatory trials were initiated. The comparator BIAsp 30 BID was chosen since it is the most widely 
used pre-mixed insulin worldwide and it contains a basal component (intermediate-acting protamine 
IAsp) and the same rapid-acting component (IAsp) as IDegAsp.  
IDet was the comparator in the trial including subjects with T1DM as it is an approved, well-established 
and widely used treatment in all countries participating in the trial and has a well-known efficacy and 
safety profile.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 49/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives and endpoints 
Primary Objective/Endpoints 
The primary objective in all of the therapeutic confirmatory trials was to confirm the efficacy of 
IDegAsp in controlling glycaemia as measured by change from baseline in glycosylated haemoglobin 
A1c (HbA1c) after 26 weeks of treatment in subjects with T1DM or T2DM. This was done by comparing 
the difference in change of HbA1c from baseline to end-of-treatment between IDegAsp and the active 
comparator. One exception was the extension, Trial 3645, where the primary endpoint was related to 
safety.  
Secondary Objectives/Endpoints  
The secondary objectives of the therapeutic confirmatory trials were to compare efficacy of IDegAsp to 
the active comparator in terms of: 
 
Proportion of subjects reaching prespecified HbA1c targets with or without hypoglycaemic 
episodes. Subjects achieving the predefined HbA1c targets at end of trial are designated as 
’responders’, and were recorded at end of trial. 
 
Laboratory-measured fasting plasma glucose (FPG). Blood samples were taken in fasting state 
before breakfast at baseline and after 12, 16 and 26 weeks of treatment, and after 27, 39 and 53 
weeks in the extension to Trial 3594 (Trial 3645). 
  9-point self-measured plasma glucose (SMPG) profiles. In all trials, 9-point SMPG profiles were 
measured at baseline and after 12, 16 and 26 weeks of treatment.  
  SMPG profiles for dose adjustments. 
 
Interstitial glucose (IG) profiles measured by continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) in a Interstitial 
glucose (IG) profiles measured by continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) in a subpopulation of 
subjects in selected trials. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) was employed in a subset of 
subjects at selected sites, in Trials 3593 and 3590. Measurements were made during a period up to 
72 hours just before randomisation and 3–4 days before the last clinic visit of the trial. 
 
Patient-reported outcome (PRO). A self-completed patient-reported outcome (PRO) battery 
containing several questionnaires was used to investigate the subject’s treatment satisfaction, 
productivity and health-related quality of life in relation to IDegAsp and comparator products 
during the course of the trials. 
The safety objectives of importance for the efficacy evaluation were to compare IDegAsp to the active 
comparator in terms of: 
  Hypoglycaemic episodes: severe, all confirmed (severe or plasma glucose < 3.1 mmol/L 
[56 mg/dL]), nocturnal confirmed. Throughout the trials, subjects recorded hypoglycaemic 
episodes in their diary, and the information was transferred to the case report forms. Confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes (severe or plasma glucose <3.1 mmol/L [56 mg/dL]) with an onset 
between 00:01 and 05:59 (both inclusive) were considered nocturnal. 
  Body weight was measured at screening and at Weeks 0, 12, 16 and 26, and for trials of 52 weeks’ 
duration, also at Weeks 40 and 52. 
 
Insulin dose. Starting at first visit after the randomisation visit, subjects were to report the insulin 
dose in the diary on three consecutive days before each visit, on the same days as the SMPG 
measurements, throughout the trial. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 50/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Insulin antibodies. Specific insulin antibodies (IDeg, IAsp, IDet and/or IGlar specific antibodies) as 
well as insulin antibodies cross-reacting to human insulin were measured in T1DM Trial 3594/3645 
and T2DM Trials 3590 and 3597.  
Other important safety objectives in all trials were to compare safety in terms of adverse events (AEs) 
and clinical laboratory assessments. 
Randomisation/Blinding (masking) 
Participants were randomised 1:1 or 2:1 to each of the treatment arms. The unequal 2:1 
randomisation was employed in two of the confirmatory trials in order to ensure an adequate total 
number of subjects exposed to IDegAsp in the development programme. Stratification was 
implemented in some but not all trials. In trials using stratification, participants were stratified 
according to prior anti-diabetic treatment (Table 10). 
The various pen systems used for IDegAsp, IDet, BIAsp 30 and IGlar, as well as the different timing 
and frequency of dosing between treatment arms in some of the trials necessitated an open-label trial 
design in all trials. Use of a double-dummy design was considered unethical and not feasible because 
of the increased number of injections, risk of overdose and risk of mix-ups of insulin products. This 
justification is acceptable. The titration committee and most Novo Nordisk personnel involved in the 
trial conduct were blinded, but investigators were not. 
Statistical methods 
Adequate statistical methods were applied. Analysis of the endpoints evaluating the objectives was 
pre-planned for all trials. Some endpoints were prioritised as confirmatory endpoints in the individual 
trials and tested in a hierarchical manner.  
Results 
Participant flow 
A total of 548 subjects with T1DM were randomised, and 542 were exposed to treatment (Table 12). In 
Trial 3594 and extension Trial 3645, T1DM subjects had a high completion rate and the proportion of 
withdrawals was comparable between the treatment groups. The withdrawal rate was similar in the 
treatment groups with the majority being due to ‘Other’ reasons. The reason most frequently stated in 
the category ‘Other’ was withdrawal at the subjects’ own initiative. Few subject withdrawals were due 
to ineffective therapy (IDegAsp: 2; IDet: 0 subjects) or lack of effect within the category of subjects 
meeting withdrawal criteria (IDegAsp: 2; IDet: 0 subjects) in Trial 3594/3645 (Table 12).  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 51/151 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 Subject Disposition – T1DM 
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                                           IDegAsp OD           IDet              Total        
Trial (wks)                                N    (%)          N    (%)          N    (%)     
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
3594 (26)                                                                                   
   Randomised                               366 (100.0)       182 (100.0)       548 (100.0) 
   Exposed                                  362  (98.9)       180  (98.9)       542  (98.9) 
   Withdrawn at/after Randomisation          46  (12.6)        26  (14.3)        72  (13.1) 
     Adverse Event                            4   (1.1)         3   (1.6)         7   (1.3) 
     Ineffective Therapy                      2   (0.5)                           2   (0.4) 
     Non-Compliance With Protocol             8   (2.2)         6   (3.3)        14   (2.6) 
     Withdrawal Criteria                      7   (1.9)         5   (2.7)        12   (2.2) 
     Other                                   25   (6.8)        12   (6.6)        37   (6.8) 
   Completed trial                          320  (87.4)       156  (85.7)       476  (86.9) 
Extension (3594/3645 (52))                                                                  
   Included in Extension                    254  (69.4)       122  (67.0)       376  (68.6) 
   Withdrawn during Extension                21   (5.7)         9   (4.9)        30   (5.5) 
     Adverse Event                            3   (0.8)                           3   (0.5) 
     Non-Compliance With Protocol             4   (1.1)         1   (0.5)         5   (0.9) 
     Withdrawal Criteria                      2   (0.5)         1   (0.5)         3   (0.5) 
     Other                                   12   (3.3)         7   (3.8)        19   (3.5) 
   Completed Extension Trial                233  (63.7)       113  (62.1)       346  (63.1) 
   Full Analysis Set                        366 (100.0)       182 (100.0)       548 (100.0) 
   PP Analysis Set                          336  (91.8)       168  (92.3)       504  (92.0) 
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
N: Number of subjects; %: Proportion of randomised subjects; Ineffective Therapy: Either documented by HbA1c or 
undocumented at investigator discretion; PP: Per Protocol                
In the four therapeutic confirmatory trials with T2DM subjects (Trials 3592, 3597, 3593 and 3590), a 
total of 1866 subjects were randomised and 1855 were exposed to treatment (Table 13). All 
therapeutic confirmatory trials in T2DM subjects had a high completion rate (8588%), and the overall 
number of withdrawals within each trial was generally comparable among treatment groups with minor 
variations in the reasons for withdrawal (Table 13). The majority of the withdrawals both in the 
IDegAsp and comparator groups were due to subjects meeting a withdrawal criterion or ‘Other’ reasons. 
The reason most frequently stated in the category ‘Other’ was withdrawal of consent by the subject or 
violation of inclusion/exclusion criteria. The most common withdrawal criteria met were protocol 
deviations. In the four T2DM trials few subjects were withdrawn due to ineffective therapy (IDegAsp: 9; 
Comparator: 6 subjects) or lack of effect within the category of subjects meeting the withdrawal 
criteria (IDegAsp: 2; Comparator: 0 subjects); please see Table 13.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 52/151 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
 
Table 13 Subject Disposition – T2DM 
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                                            IDegAsp           Comparator        Total       
                                            N    (%)          N    (%)          N    (%)    
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
T2DM, Pooled Trials 
   Randomised                               1004 (100.0)       862 (100.0)      1866 (100.0) 
   Exposed                                   998  (99.4)       857  (99.4)      1855  (99.4) 
  Withdrawn at/after Randomisation           147  (14.6)       111  (12.9)       258  (13.8) 
     Adverse Event                            18   (1.8)        13   (1.5)        31   (1.7) 
     Ineffective Therapy                       9   (0.9)         6   (0.7)        15   (0.8) 
     Non-Compliance With Protocol             17   (1.7)        12   (1.4)        29   (1.6) 
     Withdrawal Criteria                      45   (4.5)        31   (3.6)        76   (4.1) 
     Other                                    58   (5.8)        49   (5.7)       107   (5.7) 
   Completed                                 857  (85.4)       751  (87.1)      1608  (86.2) 
   Full Analysis Set                        1000  (99.6)       860  (99.8)      1860  (99.7) 
   PP Analysis Set                           895  (89.1)       776  (90.0)      1671  (89.5) 
———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
N: Number of subjects; %: Proportion of randomised subjects; Ineffective Therapy: Either documented by HbA1c or 
undocumented at investigator discretion; PP: Per Protocol; T2DM Pooled Trials: 3593, 3590, 3592 and 3597; 
Comparator: IGlar OD (3593, 3590) and BIAsp 30 BID (3592, 3597) 
The time of withdrawal was comparable between treatment arms in each of the therapeutic 
confirmatory trial. In general, more subjects withdrew in the first half of the trials (012 weeks) 
compared to the second half of the trials (13 weeks).  
Six subjects in the five therapeutic confirmatory trials were randomised in error and therefore not 
included in the FAS. The exclusion of these subjects from the FAS was documented with an appropriate 
justification in the individual CTRs. 
Conduct of the study 
One trial site was closed due to data quality issues, discovered before database lock. The site closure 
involved 11 subjects in Trial 3580 (IDeg 4, comparator 7), and 14 subjects in Trial 3582 (IDeg 11, 
comparator 3). In addition, 2 subjects in Trial 3579 (IDeg OD) were withdrawn before the site was 
closed. The actions taken with regards to handling of data from this site were acceptable. 
In December 2010, Abbott recalled certain lots of Precision glucose test strips due to an error that 
potentially caused readings to be too low. The defect strips were used at some U.S. sites in Trials 3583, 
3672, 3770 and 3839. The risk of experiencing too low readings was very low (maximally 0.099% of 
measurements) and the recall did not have any impact on the data quality and outcome of any of the 
Novo Nordisk A/S trials.  
Baseline data 
The groups were generally well balanced. The age in subjects with T1DM (Trial 3594/3645) was lower 
in the IDegAsp group than IDet group (40.7 vs. 42.6 years, mean age 41.3 years), while the age was 
similar between the treatment groups in subjects with T2DM (pooled Trials 3592, 3597, 3593 and 
3590). The mean age in the T2DM trials was higher, 58.3 years. In total, 501 subjects were over 65 
years of age and 66 subjects were over 75 years. In the pooled population including all IDegAsp + 
IDeg treated subjects, 86 elderly (>65 years) and 13 very elderly (>75 years) subjects with T1DM and 
1034 elderly and 126 very elderly subjects with T2DM were exposed.  
In the T1DM trial there was an overall equal distribution between male and females, while a somewhat 
lower proportion of males were seen in the comparator group (52 % IDegAsp vs. 45 % for 
comparator). In the T2DM trials slightly more than 50% of the all randomised subjects were males. In 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 53/151 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
 
general, men and women were equally distributed between the treatment groups with 47.0–58.7% 
male subjects in each of the T2DM trials. The potential effects of unequal male: female distribution is 
accounted for in the results, as sex was included as a covariate in the statistical analysis. 
In the T1DM trial, 57.7% were from Europe, 30.5% from North America and 11.9% from Australia, 
and in the T2DM trials, 37.9% of the subjects were from Asia, 32.7% from Europe, 16.0% from North 
America, 9.6% from Japan, 2.5% from Australia and 1.3% from South Africa. Thus European patients 
were well represented in both T1DM and T2DM trials. 
  Baseline Diabetes Characteristics 
Diabetes characteristics were generally well balanced and representative for the target population. In 
the T1DM trial, mean HbA1c was 8.3% in both treatment arms. The mean HbA1c varied between 8.3 to 
8.9% in the T2DM trials and was comparable between treatment groups. 
Within the five therapeutic confirmatory trials the pretrial anti-diabetic treatment regiments were 
comparable between the treatment arms (Table 14). Participants were stratified according to prior 
anti-diabetic treatment in some of the trials (Table 10).  
Table 14 Pretrial OAD Treatment – T2DM Pooled Trials 
—————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                                                IDegAsp       Comparator    Total          
Trial (wks)                                     N     (%)     N     (%)     N     (%)      
—————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
   Alpha-glucosidase inhibitor                    29   (2.9)    31   (3.6)    60   (3.2)   
        Acarbose                                  24   (2.4)    23   (2.7)    47   (2.5)   
        Miglitol                                   2   (0.2)     2   (0.2)     4   (0.2)   
        Voglibose                                  3   (0.3)     6   (0.7)     9   (0.5)   
   Biguanide                                     826  (82.6)   747  (86.9)  1573  (84.6)   
        Metformin                                826  (82.6)   747  (86.9)  1573  (84.6)   
   DPP-4 inhibitor                                50   (5.0)    66   (7.7)   116   (6.2)   
        Sitagliptin                               38   (3.8)    53   (6.2)    91   (4.9)   
        Vildagliptin                              10   (1.0)    13   (1.5)    23   (1.2)   
        Saxagliptin                                2   (0.2)                   2   (0.1)   
   Glinide                                        29   (2.9)    33   (3.8)    62   (3.3)   
        Repaglinide                               21   (2.1)    27   (3.1)    48   (2.6)   
        Nateglinide                                8   (0.8)     5   (0.6)    13   (0.7)   
        Mitiglinide                                              1   (0.1)     1   (0.1)   
   Sulphonylurea                                 401  (40.1)   378  (44.0)   779  (41.9)   
        Glibenclamide                            112  (11.2)   103  (12.0)   215  (11.6)   
        Gliclazide                                74   (7.4)    55   (6.4)   129   (6.9)   
        Glimepiride                              173  (17.3)   172  (20.0)   345  (18.5)   
        Glipizide                                 40   (4.0)    47   (5.5)    87   (4.7)   
        Glyburide                                  2   (0.2)     1   (0.1)     3   (0.2)   
        Tolazamide                                 1   (0.1)                   1   (0.1)   
   Thiazolidinedione                              39   (3.9)    37   (4.3)    76   (4.1)   
        Pioglitazone                              39   (3.9)    37   (4.3)    76   (4.1)   
—————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
A subject can be on more than one OAD. IDegAsp: OD (3593, 3590) and BID (3592, 3597); Comparator: IGlar OD 
(3593, 3590) and BIAsp 30 BID (3592, 3597)    
Overall, approximately 90% of the subjects in each treatment arms reported at least one concomitant 
illness at baseline. The most common concomitant illness reported was hypertension, with a lower 
incidence in the IDegAsp group (32.0%) than comparator group (40.0%). Other concomitant illnesses 
reported at baseline for at least 10% of the subjects were: diabetic retinopathy (26.9%), diabetic 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 54/151 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
 
neuropathy (17.9%), hypercholesterolaemia (12.9%), hyperlipidaemia (12.4%), hypothyroidism 
(10.9%), dyslipidaemia (10.3%) and depression (10.7%).   
Around 97% of all subjects in the therapeutic confirmatory trials in subjects with T2DM had 
concomitant illness at baseline. The most common concomitant illness reported was hypertension 
(67.3%), with similar incidence across the IDegAsp and comparator group. Other concomitant illnesses 
reported at baseline for at least 10% of the subjects were hyperlipidaemia (27.2%), dyslipidaemia 
(23.8%), diabetic retinopathy (20.6%), diabetic neuropathy (15.0%) and cataract (12.1%). 
Outcomes and estimation 
Summary of Confirmatory Testing 
  Subjects with T1DM 
The conclusion of the confirmatory statistical analysis in Trial 3594 is presented in Table 15. IDegAsp 
improved long-term glycaemic control (HbA1c non-inferior to IDet). Non-inferiority was shown both in 
the ITT and the PP population and the upper limit of the 95% CI was well below the predefined delta of 
0.4 %. In terms of FPG reduction superiority of IDegAsp OD over IDet could not be confirmed (upper 
limit of 95% CI >0%), the hierarchical testing procedure was stopped and thus superiority could not 
be confirmed for the two remaining confirmatory secondary efficacy and safety endpoints. 
No confirmatory analyses were done for the extension, Trial 3645. 
Table 15 Conclusion of Confirmatory Statistical Analysis – T1DM – Trial 3594 
HbA1c (%) 
(IDegAsp–IDet) 
FPG (mmol/L, 
mg/dL) 
(IDegAsp–IDet) 
HbA1c <7.0% without 
Severe Hypoglycaemia 
(IDegAsp/IDet) 
Nocturnal Confirmed 
Hypoglycaemia 
(IDegAsp/IDet) 
Estimate [95% CI]: 
-0.05 [-0.18;0.08] 
0.23 [-0.46;0.91] 
4.09 [-8.25; 16.43] 
1.24 [0.77;2.02] 
0.63 [0.49;0.81]* 
Test Conclusion: 
Non-inferiority 
Inconclusive 
Testing Proc. Stopped 
Testing Proc. Stopped 
Columns appear in the order of the test priority. Data are estimated differences/ratios [95% CI]. Based on Full 
Analysis Set. *Difference statistically significant, but testing procedure was stopped.  
  Subjects with T2DM 
The conclusions of the confirmatory statistical analysis of Trials 3593 and 3590 with IDegAsp OD and 
Trials 3592 and 3597 with IDegAsp BID are presented in Table 16 and Table 17, respectively. Overall, 
IDegAsp improved long-term glycaemic control after 26 weeks when dosed both OD (HbA1c non-
inferior to IGlar OD, both in insulin-naïve subjects (Trial 3590) and subjects treated with insulin pretrial 
(Trial 3593)) and BID (HbA1c non-inferior to BIAsp 30 BID).   
The upper 95 % CI was well below the predefined delta of 0.4 % in all trials for both the ITT and the 
PP populations. 
IDegAsp OD was superior to IGlar OD in terms of lowering prandial PG increment at breakfast 
(Trial 3590) and dinner (Trial 3593); please see Table 16. IDegAsp OD superiority to IGlar OD could 
not be confirmed for fluctuation in nocturnal IG (Trial 3590) or for subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% at 
end-of-trial without confirmed hypoglycaemia (Trial 3593) and thus the hierarchical testing procedure 
was stopped and superiority could not be confirmed for the remaining confirmatory secondary 
endpoints. 
IDegAsp BID was superior to BIAsp 30 BID in terms of lowering FPG; please see Table 17. 
Furthermore, IDegAsp BID was superior to BIAsp 30 BID in terms of a lower rate of confirmed 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 55/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       
hypoglycaemia in Trial 3592. Superiority could not be confirmed for the remaining confirmatory 
secondary endpoints. 
Table 16 Conclusion of Confirmatory Statistical analysis – T2DM – IDegAsp OD 
HbA1c (%) 
(IDegAsp–
IGlar) 
Prandial PG 
Increment 
(mmol/L, 
mg/dL) 
Breakfast/Dinne
r† 
(IDegAsp–
IGlar) 
Fluctuation in 
Nocturnal IG 
(mmol/L, 
mg/dL) 
(IDegAsp/IGla
r) 
HbA1c <7.0% 
without 
Confirmed 
Hypoglycaemia 
(IDegAsp/IGla
r) 
Nocturnal 
Confirmed  
Hypoglycaemia 
(IDegAsp/IGla
r) 
Body 
Weight 
(kg) 
(IDegAsp
–IGlar) 
Trial 3593 
  Estimate 
[95% CI]: 
-0.03  
[-
0.20;0.14] 
-1.32  
[-1.93;-0.72] 
-23.86  
0.97 [0.74;1.28] 
0.97 [0.74;1.28]    
[-34.74;-12.98]        
0.80 [0.50;1.30] 
0.80 [0.49;1.30] 
  Test 
Conclusion: 
Non-
inferiority 
Superiority 
Testing Proc. 
Stopped 
Inconclusive  
Testing Proc. 
Stopped 
Trial 3590 
  Estimate 
[95% CI]: 
0.03  
[-
0.14;0.20] 
-1.40  
[-1.92;-0.88] 
-25.22  
0.69 [0.25;1.92] 
0.69 [0.25;1.92]    
0.61 [0.40;0.94] 
0.29 
[0.13;0.65]* 
[-34.52;-15.92]         
  Test 
Conclusion: 
Non-
inferiority 
Superiority 
Inconclusive 
Testing Proc. 
Stopped 
Testing Proc. 
Stopped 
0.33  
[-
0.17;0.83] 
Testing 
Proc. 
Stopped 
1.31 
[0.72;1.89
] 
Testing 
Proc. 
Stopped 
Note: Columns appear in the order of the test priority for Trial 3590, in Trial 3593 the endpoint HbA1c <7.0% 
without confirmed hypoglycaemia was tested before fluctuation in nocturnal IG. IG: interstitial glucose; IGlar: IGlar 
OD; PG: plasma glucose. Data are estimated difference [95% CI] or ratio [95% CI]. Based on Full Analysis Set. †At 
breakfast for Trial 3590, at dinner for Trial 3593.*Difference statistically significant. 
Table 17 Conclusion of Confirmatory Statistical analysis – T2DM – IDegAsp BID 
HbA1c (%) 
FPG (mmol/L, 
mg/dL) 
Confirmed 
Hypo-
glycaemia 
(IDegAsp–
BIAsp) 
(IDegAsp–
BIAsp) 
(IDegAsp-
BIAsp) 
HbA1c <7.0% 
without 
Confirmed 
Hypo-
glycaemia 
(IDegAsp-
BIAsp) 
Body Weight 
(kg) 
(IDegAsp–
BIAsp) 
Nocturnal 
Confirmed 
Hypo-
glycaemia 
(IDegAsp-
BIAsp) 
Trial 3592 
  Estimate 
[95% CI]: 
  Test 
Conclusion: 
Trial 3597 
-0.03  
[-0.18;0.13] 
Non-
inferiority 
-1.14  
[-1.53;-0.76] 
-20.57  
[-27.51;-13.63] 
0.68 
[0.52;0.89] 
1.60 
-0.62  
[0.94;2.72]     
[-1.15;-0.10]*       
0.27 
[0.18;0.41]* 
Superiority 
Superiority 
Inconclusive  
Testing Proc. 
Stopped   
Testing Proc. 
Stopped   
  Estimate 
[95% CI]: 
0.05 
[-0.10;0.20]  
-1.06  
[-1.43;-0.70] 
-19.15  
[-25.69;-12.62]   
1.00 
1.77 
-0.38  
0.67 
[0.76;1.32]       
[0.97;3.25]      
[-0.96;0.21]       
[0.43;1.06]     
  Test 
Conclusion: 
Non-
inferiority 
Superiority 
Inconclusive  
Testing Proc. 
Stopped   
Testing Proc. 
Stopped   
Testing Proc. 
Stopped   
Note: Columns appear in the order of the test priority. Data are estimated difference [95% CI] or ratio [95% CI]. 
BIAsp: BIAsp 30 BID; FPG: fasting plasma glucose (central lab). Based on Full Analysis Set. *Difference statistically 
significant. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 56/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint: Change in HbA1c 
The change in HbA1c for all trials is summarised in Figure 12. For trials with T2DM the end-of-trial 
mean HbA1c values were close to the ADA recommended target of 7%.  
Figure 12 Mean HbA1c (%) at Baseline and End-of-trial 
EOT: End-of-trial; Comparator: IDet (Trial 3594/3645) IGlar OD (Trials 3593 and 3590) and BIAsp 30 BID 
(Trials 3592 and 3597). LOCF imputed. Based on Full Analysis Set  
Subjects with T1DM treated with IDegAsp OD in combination with IAsp improved long-term glycaemic 
control after 26 and 52 weeks of treatment. Mean HbA1c decreased during the trial in the IDegAsp OD 
group and the comparator group treated with IDet (Figure 13). The reduction in HbA1c was evident 
after the first 8 weeks of treatment, and after 26 weeks the observed HbA1c reduction was 
0.73 %-points in the IDegAsp group, comparable to the 0.68 %-point reduction in the IDet group. The 
reduction was still evident after 52 weeks in both treatment groups.      
Figure 13 Mean HbA1c (± SEM) over Time – T1DM 
Trial 3594/3645 
 LOCF imputed data. Based on Full Analysis Set.  
The reduction in HbA1c was similar after 26 weeks and 52 weeks of IDegAsp OD treatment, 
demonstrating that the initial improvement in HbA1c could be maintained for one year. There was no 
statistically significant difference in the lowering of HbA1c in the IDegAsp OD group compared with the 
IDet group after 52 weeks of treatment. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 57/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For subjects completing the full 52 weeks the results were in the same direction as after 26 weeks and 
the larger HbA1c reduction for IDegAsp than IDet was now statistically significant (estimated treatment 
difference: -0.16 [-0.30; -0.02]95%CI).  
IDegAsp OD and BID effectively improved long-term glycaemic control in subjects with T2DM. Mean 
HbA1c decreased throughout the trials in all IDegAsp treatment groups (Figure 14).  
Figure 14 Mean HbA1c (± SEM) over Time for IDegAsp and Comparator – T2DM 
LOCF imputed data. Based on Full Analysis Set.  
After 26 weeks of IDegAsp OD treatment, the mean HbA1c was 7.21% in Trial 3590 and 7.31% in 
Trial 3593. The observed mean reduction from baseline after IDegAsp OD treatment was higher in the 
insulin-naïve subjects of Trial 3590 (1.65 %-points) than the subjects treated with insulin pretrial in 
Trial 3593 (0.98 %-points). These reductions were comparable to the HbA1c reduction in the IGlar OD 
group of each trial.  
Treatment with IDegAsp BID for 26 weeks led to an observed mean HbA1c of 7.05% and 7.07% in 
Trials 3592 and 3597, respectively. The observed mean reduction from baseline to end-of-trial in the 
IDegAsp group was 1.28 %-point in Trial 3592 and 1.38 %-point in Trial 3597, similar to the reduction 
after BIAsp 30 BID treatment.  
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
  Subjects with T1DM Achieving HbA1c Targets  
The proportion of subjects reaching HbA1c <7.0% after 26 weeks treatment was higher for 
IDegAsp OD-treated subjects (24.6%) compared with IDet-treated subjects (20.3%) in Trial 3594. 
After 52 weeks of treatment (Trial 3594/3645) the proportion of subjects reaching the ADA target 
remained higher for IDegAsp OD, 22.4% compared with 17.0% for IDet. The treatment differences 
were not statistically significant. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 58/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
The proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% without severe hypoglycaemia was higher for 
IDegAsp OD compared with IDet treated subjects both after 26 weeks and 52 weeks of treatment: 
IDegAsp OD 24.3% (26 weeks) and 22.0% (52 weeks), IDet 20.7% (26 weeks) and 16.6% (52 weeks). 
As these subjects had to be exposed for 12 weeks, the proportions can be higher compared with the 
proportions of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0%. The treatment differences were not statistically 
significant.  
The proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% without confirmed hypoglycaemia was low, both in 
the IDegAsp OD group (26 weeks: 4.5%; 52 weeks: 5.3%) and the IDet group (26 weeks: 3.0%; 52 
weeks: 3.6%), as might be predicted in individuals with T1DM on basal–bolus insulin therapy. The 
treatment differences were not statistically significant. 
  Subjects Reaching HbA1c Targets in T2DM 
After 26 weeks of IDegAsp OD treatment, 45.9% of the subject in Trial 3590 and 40.0% of the 
subjects in Trial 3593 reached HbA1c <7.0%, comparable to the results from the IGlar OD groups 
(45.6% in Trial 3590 and 36.5% in Trial 3593). There were no statistically significant differences 
between IDegAsp OD and IGlar OD in any of the trials. 
The proportion of subjects reaching the ADA target of HbA1c <7.0% after IDegAsp BID treatment was 
50.4% (Trial 3592) and 48.2% (Trial 3597), comparable to BIAsp 30 BID treatment results, 48.6% 
and 49.3%. There were no statistically significant differences between the IDegAsp BID and BIAsp 30 
BID groups. 
The proportion of subjects who achieved HbA1c <7.0% without confirmed hypoglycaemia was lower for 
IDegAsp OD (23.6 and 20.9%) compared with IGlar OD (30.7 and 23.5%) in Trials 3590 and 3593, 
respectively. This difference was statistically significant in Trial 3590 with pretrial insulin-naïve subjects, 
but not in Trial 3593.  
In Trials 3592 and 3597 the proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia was higher for IDegAsp BID (21.8 and 21.9%) compared with BIAsp 30 BID (14.9 and 
13.2%). These differences were not statistically significant.   
The proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% without severe hypoglycaemia in T2DM were high in 
all treatment groups, reflecting the low incidence of severe hypoglycaemia and overall the proportion 
was. There were no statistically significant differences between IDegAsp OD or BID and comparator in 
any of the T2DM trials. 
 
FPG (Central Laboratory) 
FPG decreased with both IDegAsp and comparator in all trials. The FPG values at end-of-trial were 
lower with IDegAsp BID than with BIAsp 30 BID in subjects with T2DM, and the FPG was similar or 
higher with IDegAsp OD than with comparators at end-of-trial in subjects with T1DM and T2DM.  
  9-Point SMPG Profiles  
In T1DM subjects, the 9-point profiles were lower than baseline after 26 and 52 weeks of IDegAsp OD 
and IDet treatment, both in combination with IAsp. The 9-point profile was similar between IDegAsp 
OD and IDet treatment after 52 weeks, except before lunch and the evening meal where the mean PG 
value was lower for IDegAsp OD than for IDet. A similar pattern was seen after 26 weeks.    
In all T2DM trials, the 9-point profiles improved after 26 weeks compared to baseline. No differences 
were observed between IDegAsp and the comparators.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 59/151 
 
 
 
 
  SMPG Used for Dose Adjustments 
In T1DM subjects, the pre-breakfast titration target of SMPG <5 mmol/L (90 mg/dL) was met by a 
similar proportion of subjects in the IDegAsp OD group and IDet group after 26 weeks (IDegAsp OD: 
16.9%; IDet: 16.0%) and 52 weeks (IDegAsp OD: 15.0%; IDet: 17.7%). The median time to reach 
titration target for the first time was 9 weeks for IDegAsp OD and 12 weeks for IGlar OD treated 
subjects. There were no statistically significant differences.  
In T2DM subjects, the pre-breakfast titration target of SMPG <5 mmol/L (90 mg/dL) was met by a 
lower proportion of subjects in the IDegAsp OD group compared with the IGlar OD group after 26 
weeks in both Trial 3590 (IDegAsp OD: 13.9%; IGlar OD: 28.5%) and Trial 3593 (IDegAsp OD: 23.0%; 
IGlar OD: 36.1%). The median time to achieving the pre-breakfast SMPG titration target of <5 mmol/L 
for the first time was longer for IDegAsp OD than IGlar OD in Trial 3590 (23 versus 13 weeks) and 
3593 (11 versus 9 weeks).  
The pre-breakfast titration target of SMPG <5 mmol/L (90 mg/dL) was met by a higher proportion of 
subjects in the IDegAsp BID group compared with the BIAsp 30 BID group after 26 weeks in both 
Trial 3592 (IDegAsp BID: 37.9%; BIAsp 30 BID: 23.0%) and Trial 3597 (IDegAsp BID: 33.9%; 
BIAsp 30 BID: 14.2%). The before main meal target of SMPG <5 mmol/L was met by 13.6 to 14.7% in 
the IDegAsp BID group and 8.5 to 13.1% in the BIAsp 30 BID group in Trials 3592 and 3597. The 
median time to achieving the pre-breakfast SMPG titration target of <5 mmol/L for the first time was 
shorter for IDegAsp BID than BIAsp 30 in both Trial 3592 (5 versus 13 weeks) and Trial 3597 (5 
versus 21 weeks).       
 
Interstitial Glucose Profiles by Continuous Glucose Monitoring 
In the subgroup of T2DM subjects who underwent CGM, fluctuation of the nocturnal IG profiles was 
reduced after 26 weeks treatment in Trial 3593 with both IDegAsp OD and IGlar OD and slightly 
reduced in the IDegAsp OD group of Trial 3590. 
 
Patient-reported Outcome 
In general only modest changes were observed in the quality of life assessment. In subjects with T1DM, 
mean physical and mental scores in the SF-36 v2 were unchanged during Trial 3594, both with 
IDegAsp OD and IDet. In subjects with T2DM, physical and mental scores measured by SF-36v2 
changed marginally from baseline to end-of-trial with IDegAsp OD, IDegAsp BID and comparators.  
Safety Endpoints as Part of Efficacy Evaluation 
Across the therapeutic confirmatory trials, subjects treated with IDegAsp experienced fewer nocturnal 
hypoglycaemic episodes than with comparators; please see Figure 15. Overall rates of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes were similar or higher with IDegAsp OD than with comparator in subjects with 
T1DM and T2DM, while T2DM subjects treated with IDegAsp BID experienced fewer confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes than with BIAsp 30 BID (data are summarized in Table 18, Table 19 and Table 
20). 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 60/151 
 
 
 
 
Table 18 Hypoglycaemic Episodes by Classification – T1DM – IDegAsp OD – SAS 
Table 19 Hypoglycaemic Episodes by Classification – T2DM – IDegAsp OD – SAS 
Table 20 Hypoglycaemic Episodes by Classification – Treatment Emergent – T2DM – IDegAsp 
BID – SAS 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 61/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Figure 15 Nocturnal Confirmed Hypoglycaemic Episodes – Plot of Rates 
Comparator: IDet (Trial 3594/3645) IGlar OD (Trials 3593 and 3590) and BIAsp 30 BID (Trials 3592 and 3597) 
Based on Safety Analysis Set. 
Confirmed Hypoglycaemia: Subjects with T1DM – IDegAsp OD 
The majority of subjects (approximately 95%) treated with IDegAsp OD or IDet both in combination 
with mealtime IAsp for 52 weeks experienced at least one episode of confirmed hypoglycaemia. Most 
(up to 90%) episodes of confirmed hypoglycaemia occur during daytime (from 06:00 to 00:00). There 
was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups; estimated rate ratio (IDegAsp 
OD/IDet) 0.95 [0.79; 1.14]95%CI. The confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes was also analysed using the 
extension trial set (i.e. all subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its 
comparator in the extension part), results were in accordance with those from the FAS.  
Nocturnal Confirmed Hypoglycaemia: Subjects with T1DM – IDegAsp OD 
Subjects treated with IDegAsp OD in combination with mealtime IAsp experienced fewer nocturnal 
confirmed and nocturnal severe hypoglycaemic episodes than IDet + IAsp in Trial 3594/3645. The 
estimated rate of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia was 38% lower with IDegAsp OD than with IDet 
after 52 weeks’ treatment, and this was statistically significant. Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia 
was a confirmatory endpoint in Trial 3594, and superiority based on hierarchical testing could not be 
formally confirmed as the testing procedure was stopped prior to testing this endpoint.  
For nocturnal severe hypoglycaemia, the estimated rate was 65% lower with IDegAsp OD than with 
IDet, and the difference was statistically significant with an estimated rate ratio of 
0.35 [0.14; 0.87]95%CI. 
Treatment Emergent Hypoglycaemia over Time: Subjects with T1DM – IDegAsp OD 
After the initial 12–16 weeks of treatment, the number of hypoglycaemic episodes tapered off in the 
IDegAsp OD group compared with the IDet group; please see Figure 16.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 62/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
Figure 16 Hypoglycaemic Episodes – Mean Cumulative Function – T1DM – Trial 3594/3645 
Based on Safety Analysis Set. No nocturnal severe  hypoglycaemic episodes were reported in the IDegAsp OD group 
between Week 30 and end-of-trial, explaining why the line for nocturnal severe  hypoglycaemia stops at Week 30.                   
Severe and Confirmed Hypoglycaemia: Subjects with T2DM – IDegAsp OD  
In the trials utilizing once daily IDegAsp or IGlar (Trials 3590 and 3593) few or no events of severe 
hypoglycaemia were reported in the IDegAsp OD and IGlar OD treatment groups. The rate of SAEs 
related to hypoglycaemia was similar in the IDegAsp and the comparator groups for subjects with 
T2DM. No subjects with T2DM withdrew from the trials due to hypoglycaemia reported as ‘adverse 
event’. Few subjects (IDegAsp OD: 2 subjects; IGlar: 0 subjects) withdrew due to the withdrawal 
criterion “Hypoglycaemia causing a safety problem”. In addition, 1 subject in the IDegAsp OD group 
and none in the comparator group withdrew from the trial due to the withdrawal category ‘Other’ 
including a comment mentioning hypoglycaemia. None of these withdrawals occurred within the first 
month of treatment. With reference to the low number of events, withdrawal of subjects due to 
hypoglycaemia did not affect conclusions on hypoglycaemia. 
A similar proportion of subjects (50%) in the two treatment groups did not experience confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes in Trial 3593. In Trial 3590, the proportion of subjects experiencing confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes was higher in the IDegAsp OD group compared with IGlar. Also, the rate of 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes was statistically significantly higher with IDegAsp than IGlar; 
estimated treatment ratio 2.17 [1.59; 2.94]95%CI and 1.43 [1.07; 1.92]95%CI in Trials 3590 and 3593, 
respectively. This imbalance in hypoglycaemias was raised as a major objection in the Day 120 LoQ, 
together with the significantly higher increase in body weight was observed with IDegAsp treatment 
than with the comparator in study 3590. In the responses the Applicant demonstrated that the 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 63/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased rates of hypoglycaemias and body weight in studies 3590 and 3593 were related to the 
study design rather than to IDegAsp per se. The Applicant has also provided new data supporting the 
recommendation given in the SmPC to take IDegAsp with the largest meal of the day. 
In Trial 3590 IDegAsp OD was dosed with the morning meal, whereas subjects in Trial 3593 
administered IDegAsp OD at their main evening meal or largest meal of the day, thereby 
accommodating individual lifestyles and dietary patterns. The data on confirmed hypoglycaemia and 
timing of hypoglycaemia in the two trials reflected the time of injection. In Trial 3590 most confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes (70%) occurred between 8:00 and 14:00 in Trial 3590, whereas the 
confirmed episodes in Trial 3593 occurred evenly throughout the day. The results point to the 
importance of administrating IDegAsp OD with the largest meal of the day, customised to the 
individual. 
Nocturnal Confirmed Hypoglycaemia: Subjects with T2DM – IDegAsp OD 
Subjects treated with IDegAsp OD experienced fewer episodes of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia 
compared to subjects treated with IGlar in both Trials 3590 and 3593. The rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemia was statistically significantly lower with IDegAsp OD compared with IGlar. Nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemia was a confirmatory endpoint. Superiority based on hierarchical testing could 
not be formally demonstrated as the testing procedure was stopped prior to testing this endpoint. In 
Trial 3593, the estimated rate of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia was 20% lower for IDegAsp OD 
compared with IGlar OD. The difference was not statistically significant. No nocturnal severe episodes 
were reported during the trials.  
Treatment Emergent Hypoglycaemia over Time: Subjects with T2DM – IDegAsp OD 
A lower rate of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes was observed for IDegAsp OD compared 
with IGlar over time during Trials 3590 and 3593; please see Figure 17. The difference in the rate of 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes between treatment groups was less pronounced during the first 
part (from Week 1 to Week 8) of Trials 3593 and 3590, followed by a higher rate of hypoglycaemic 
episodes in the IDegAsp OD group than the IGlar group during the latter part of the trials.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 64/151 
 
 
 
 
Figure 17 Hypoglycaemic Episodes – Mean Cumulative Function – T2DM – IDegAsp OD 
Based on the Safety Analysis Set 
Severe and Confirmed Hypoglycaemia: Subjects with T2DM – IDegAsp BID 
The rate of severe hypoglycaemia was numerically lower with IDegAsp BID than BIAsp 30 BID in 
Trial 3592 and similar in Trial 3597. The rate of SAEs related to hypoglycaemia was similar in the 
IDegAsp and the comparator groups for subjects with T2DM. No subjects with T2DM withdrew from the 
trials due to hypoglycaemia reported as ‘adverse event’. Few subjects (IDegAsp BID: 3 subjects; 
BIAsp 30 BID: 1 subject) withdrew due to the withdrawal criterion “Hypoglycaemia causing a safety 
problem”. One of the withdrawals in the IDegAsp group occurred within the first month of treatment 
(in Trial 3597). In addition, 3 subjects in the BIAsp 30 BID group and none in the IDegAsp group 
withdrew from the trial due to the withdrawal category ‘Other’ including a comment mentioning 
hypoglycaemia. Taken together, withdrawal of subjects due to hypoglycaemia did not affect the 
conclusions on hypoglycaemia.  
IDegAsp BID was superior to BIAsp 30 BID in terms of a 32% lower rate of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes in Trial 3592 (estimated rate ratio (IDegAsp BID/BIAsp 30 BID): 0.68 [0.52; 0.89]95%CI); 
please see Table 17. Confirmed hypoglycaemia was a confirmatory endpoint in Trial 3592, and 
superiority based on hierarchical testing was demonstrated.  
The rate of confirmed hypoglycaemia in the IDegAsp BID group was comparable across trials 
(3592, 3597 and 1792). In Trial 3597, conducted in Asian countries where BIAsp 30 BID is the 
standard of care for subjects with T2DM, rates of confirmed hypoglycaemia with BIAsp 30 BID were as 
low as for IDegAsp BID, and there were no statistically significant treatment differences; estimated 
rate ratio: 1.00 [0.76; 1.32]95%CI. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 65/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Over 24 hours, the highest rate of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes was observed during 06:00 to 
14:00 with both IDegAsp BID and BIAsp 30 BID.  
Nocturnal Confirmed Hypoglycaemia: Subjects with T2DM – IDegAsp BID 
Across Trials 3592 and 3597, subjects treated with IDegAsp BID experienced fewer episodes of 
nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia than on BIAsp 30 BID. The 73% lower rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemia with IDegAsp BID treatment was statistically significant different from BIAsp 30 BID in 
Trial 3592. Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia was a confirmatory endpoint in Trial 3592 and based 
on hierarchical testing superiority could not be formally confirmed as the testing procedure was 
stopped prior to testing this endpoint. In Trial 3597 with Asian subjects the estimated ratio was 33% 
lower for IDegAsp BID compared with BIAsp 30 BID. The difference was not statistically significant. 
The lower nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia rates were achieved in the presence of a statistically 
significantly lower mean FPG at end-of-trial in both Trials 3592 and 3597 and use of a similar or lower 
total daily insulin dose. Few nocturnal severe episodes were reported during the trials.  
Treatment Emergent Hypoglycaemia over Time: Subjects with T2DM – IDegAsp BID  
The lower rate of confirmed hypoglycaemia with IDegAsp BID compared with BIAsp 30 BID in 
Trial 3592 became evident after 4 weeks of treatment (Figure 18). In Trial 3597, the rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes was rather constant throughout the trial in both treatment groups. The 
number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes tapered off in the IDegAsp BID group 
compared with the BIAsp 30 BID group after the initial 4–12 weeks of treatment (Figure 18).  
Figure 18 Hypoglycaemic Episodes – Mean Cumulative Function – T2DM – IDegAsp BID 
Based on Safety Analysis Set.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 66/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Body Weight 
Subjects with T1DM – IDegAsp OD 
Body weight increased in both treatment groups as can be expected with an intensive basal–bolus 
insulin therapy. In the IDegAsp OD group, the change in body weight was approximately 1 kg greater 
than with IDet after 26 weeks. The observed weight gain was 2.3 kg (IDegAsp OD) and 1.3 kg (IDet) 
after 26 weeks and 2.8 kg (IDegAsp OD) and 1.2 kg (IDet) after 52 weeks of treatment. The treatment 
differences were statistically significant at both time points. The analysis results were supported by the 
analysis done on the basis of the completer analysis set.  
Subjects with T2DM – IDegAsp OD 
Body weight was a confirmatory endpoint and included in the testing hierarchy in the two 26-week 
Trials 3590 and 3593 (Table 16). In these trials, the observed mean weight gain ranged from 1.2 to 
2.5 kg with IDegAsp OD and 1.0 to 1.2 kg with IGlar. In Trial 3590 with pretrial insulin-naïve subjects, 
the increase in weight was statistically significantly greater with IDegAsp OD compared with IGlar. In 
this trial, subjects in the IDegAsp group were instructed to take IDegAsp OD with breakfast. In Trial 
3593, where the majority of subjects used IDegAsp with the main evening meal, there was no 
statistically significant difference in the weight change between treatments. The two analysis results 
were supported by the analyses done based on the completer analysis set. When evaluating the 
change in body weight by injection time in Trial 3593 (dosing at breakfast, lunch or the main evening 
meal), there was no evidence to suggest that treatment with IDegAsp dosed with breakfast was 
accompanied by more weight gain than dosing at lunch or the main evening meal.  
Subjects with T2DM – IDegAsp BID 
Treatment with IDegAsp BID resulted in less weight gain than with BIAsp 30 BID in the two therapeutic 
confirmatory Trials 3597 and 3592. The observed mean increase in weight ranged from 1.1 kg to 1.7 
kg with IDegAsp BID and from 1.4 kg to 2.2 kg with BIAsp 30 BID. In Trial 3592, smaller weight gain 
with IDegAsp BID compared with BIAsp 30 BID was statistically significant. Body weight was a 
confirmatory endpoint in Trial 3592. Superiority of IDegAsp BID based on hierarchical testing could not 
be formally confirmed as the testing procedure was stopped prior to testing this endpoint. There was 
no statistically significant difference between treatments in Trial 3597, in which only subjects from 
Asian countries with a low observed mean body weight at baseline (66.1 kg compared with 81.5 kg in 
Trial 3592) were included. All analysis results above were supported by the analyses done on the basis 
of the completer analysis set.   
Ancillary analyses 
Comparison of Results in Subpopulations 
Comparison of HbA1c and confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes of IDegAsp in subpopulations were 
assessed through statistical analysis of potential interaction between treatment effect and intrinsic and 
extrinsic factors. In T2DM, these interaction analyses were based on pooled data from the four 
therapeutic confirmatory trials (Trials 3593, 3590, 3592 and 3597). The intrinsic factors were 
demographic (age, sex, BMI, race and ethnicity) and disease-related (diabetes duration, baseline HbA1c, 
estimated creatinine clearance, ALAT and serum creatinine). The extrinsic factors comprised pretrial 
antidiabetic treatment and concomitant medication (glucose-increasing drugs, glucose-lowering drugs, 
OAD medication class and monotherapy). The analyses were performed in order to evaluate whether 
the treatment differences (measured by HbA1c and confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes) depended on 
any of the intrinsic or extrinsic factors. It should be noted that the results from some of the 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 67/151 
 
 
 
 
subpopulation analyses of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes in T2DM should be interpreted with 
caution due to the heterogeneity between trials in terms of race, ethnicity, region, pretrial antidiabetic 
treatment and the different treatment effects seen with respect to confirmed hypoglycaemia. 
In summary, the comparison of HbA1c in subjects with T2DM showed a statistically significant 
treatment-by-hepatic function (ALAT) and treatment-by-concomitant medication (thiazolidindione) 
interaction. These findings were not considered of clinical relevance and overall the treatment 
difference (IDegAsp  Comparator) in HbA1c and confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes was independent 
of demographic factors, disease factors, pretrial antidiabetic treatment and concomitant medication.  
Analysis of Clinical Information Relevant to Dosing Recommendations 
The dosing recommendations for the proposed labelling of IDegAsp are based on results from the 
therapeutic confirmatory trials, therapeutic exploratory trials, including dose-concentration and dose-
response information, as well as other dosing results obtained in clinical pharmacology trials. In clinical 
practice, insulin dose is determined by individual need, considering the balance between the level of 
glycaemic control and the risk of hypoglycaemia. As the dose required to achieve similar glycaemic 
targets varies widely from patient to patient, no formal dose-response assessments have been made in 
terms of clinical efficacy.  
In summary, the results from the therapeutic confirmatory Trial 3590 and the exploratory trials 
showed that it was safe to initiate IDegAsp at a dose of 10 U OD in insulin-naïve subjects with T2DM. 
Data on hypoglycaemia during the first month of treatment from the global Trials 3592 and 3593 
support that subjects previously treated with basal insulin or premix/self-mix insulin can safely transfer 
to IDegAsp OD or BID on a unit-to-unit basis. Initiation of IDegAsp was followed by a safe dose 
optimisation and titration procedure. 
The glycaemic response and the risk of hypoglycaemia were not linked to IDegAsp dosing at a specific 
main meal. The results from the IDegAsp therapeutic confirmatory trials and the trials with IDeg 
administered with extreme variation in dosing time from day-to-day support that treatment with 
IDegAsp OD can be dosed with the main evening meal or largest meal of the day customised to the 
individual’s lifestyle needs in both T1DM and T2DM. If needed subjects treated with IDegAsp can 
advance or delay the dosing of IDegAsp to a different meal on the same day and thereafter resume 
their usual dosing schedule. Subjects should however not take an extra dose to make up for potential 
missed doses.  
Change in Dose over Time versus Glycaemic Control 
Doses of IDegAsp and comparators were titrated individually according to a predefined dosing 
guideline. The overall treatment goal in all therapeutic confirmatory trials was to achieve HbA1c <7% 
and a prebreakfast (fasting) SMPG target of <5.0 mmol/L (90 mg/dL). In trials with BID dosing, an 
additional predinner SMPG target of <5.0 mmol/L was applied for adjustment of the morning dose. 
In summary, the increase in total insulin dose from baseline to end-of-trial in T1DM and T2DM was a 
result of the insulin titration to achieve glycaemic targets. In T2DM, insulin doses increased primarily in 
the early part of the trials, and dose increments were not required to maintain glycaemic targets, nor 
was there any evidence of loss of efficacy over time. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 68/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
IDegAsp – Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3594 
Title: A 26-week, multinational, multi-centre, open-labelled, two-arm, parallel, randomised, treat-to-target trial 
comparing efficacy and safety of NN5401 once daily plus meal-time insulin aspart for the remaining meals vs. 
basal-bolus treatment with insulin detemir plus meal-time insulin aspart in subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN5401-3594; EudraCT number: 2008-005769-71; Study identifier: 
NCT00978627.  
This trial was a 26-week multinational, multi-centre, open-labelled, randomised (2:1), two-arm 
parallel group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp once daily 
(OD) with IDet, both groups in combination with IAsp. Stratification was carried out according 
to previous insulin regimen with the categories basal bolus regimen or other insulin regimen 
(i.e. mixed insulin regimen). Trial population constituted a typical population with type 1 
diabetes mellitus. During the one-week follow-up period, the subjects were treated with insulin 
NPH BID + IAsp. 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of extension phase: 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up (see Trial 
3594/3645) 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval 
for the estimated treatment difference (IDegAsp OD-IDet) for the mean change in HbA1c was 
below or equal to 0.4% (non-inferiority).  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary endpoint then superiority of a number of 
confirmatory secondary endpoints was tested using a hierarchical testing procedure to control 
the overall type I error rate: 1) Change from baseline in FPG; 2) HbA1c <7.0% without severe 
hypoglycaemic episodes; 3) Number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) 
+ insulin aspart (IAsp)  
Insulin detemir (IDet) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 26 
weeks of treatment  
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without severe 
hypoglycaemia 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment  
A total of 366 subjects were randomised to 
IDegAsp dosed OD at any of the main meals + 
IAsp at remaining meals. The total treatment 
duration was 26 weeks. 
A total of 182 subjects were randomised to IDet 
OD, dosed at the evening meal or at bed time + 
mealtime IAsp. A second dose of IDet could be 
added after 8 weeks of treatment in case of 
inadequate glycaemic control. The total treatment 
duration was 26 weeks.  
see Hypothesis  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the treatment difference 
(IDegAsp minus IDet) was entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDegAsp/IDet) was entirely above 
one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated rate ratio (IDegAsp/IDet) was 
entirely below one. 
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
was compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
Body weight change from baseline to 26 weeks was 
compared between treatment groups and assessed 
by statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Page 69/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
22-June-2010 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
Methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. Analyses of efficacy endpoints, including analyses of 
confirmed hypoglycaemia and body weight and the confirmatory analyses on nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemia, were based on the full analysis set  (n=548). The per protocol 
analysis set included subjects without any major protocol violations that may have affected the 
primary endpoint. The safety endpoints were summarized using the SAS (n=542). The SAS 
included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator.  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 41.3 years (ranging from 18.1 to 80.2 years), mean duration of diabetes of 17.4 years 
(ranging from 1.1 to 59.7 years), mean HbA1c of 8.3 % and mean BMI of 26.4 kg/m2. The time 
point duration for all analyses was 26 weeks. A total of 90.3% of subjects treated with a basal-
bolus insulin regimen pre-trial. The majority were treated with IGlar (66.2%) pre-trial. A total of 
87.4% and 85.7% completed the trial in the IDegAsp and IDet groups, respectively. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in 
body weight analysis) as covariates. The analysis of subjects reaching HbA1c <7.0% was based 
on a logistic regression model using the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of the 
primary endpoint. The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative 
binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period in which 
a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included 
treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age as 
covariate. All analyses in this table were pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
IDegAsp  
IDet  
Number of subject 
366 
182 
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean (SD), % 
HbA1c at baseline mean (SD), % 
HbA1c at Week 26 mean (SD), % 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment, 
mean (SD), mmol/L  
HbA1c <7.0% without severe 
hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 
PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose mean units 
(SD) after 26 weeks of treatment 
Primary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in HbA1c after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Change from baseline in 
FPG after 26 weeks of treatment 
2) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without severe hypoglycaemia 
3) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Number of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
-0.73 (0.8) 
-0.68 (0.8) 
8.30 (0.8) 
7.58 (0.9) 
8.28 (0.7) 
7.60 (0.8) 
-1.61 (5.4) 
-2.41 (5.5) 
82 (24.3) 
35 (20.7) 
3917 
4434 
371 
572 
2.29 (3.9) 
1.29 (3.4) 
69 (40) 
79 (49) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
IDegAsp - IDet 
-0.05 
[-0.18; 0.08]† 
IDegAsp - IDet 
0.23  
[-0.46; 0.91] 
IDegAsp / IDet 
1.24 
[0.77; 2.02] 
IDegAsp / IDet 
0.63 * 
[0.49; 0.81] 
IDegAsp / IDet 
0.91 
[ 0.76; 1.09] 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 70/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegAsp - IDet 
1.04 * 
[ 0.38; 1.69] 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
Notes 
BID: twice daily; BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject 
unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma 
glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; HbA1c <7% : Endpoint was only defined for subjects exposed for at 
least 12 weeks of treatment; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDegAsp: insulin degludec/insulin aspart; IDet: insulin detemir; 
NN5401: the name previously used for insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDeg/IAsp); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; NPH: 
neutral protamine Hagedorn; OD: once daily; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; †Non-inferiority 
criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.4 (%);  *: Statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 71/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3594/3645 
Title: A 26-week, multinational, multicentre, open-label, two-arm, parallel, randomised, treat-to-target extension 
trial comparing safety and efficacy of NN5401 once-daily plus meal-time insulin aspart for the remaining meals 
vs. basal-bolus treatment with insulin detemir plus meal-time insulin aspart in subjects with type 1 diabetes# 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN5401-3645; EudraCT number: 2009-013412-13; Study identifier: 
NCT01087606. 
The main trial (Trial 3594) was a 26-week multinational, multi-centre, open-labelled, 
randomised (2:1), treat-to-target,, parallel group trial comparing two treatment regimens in 
subjects with type 1 diabetes: IDegAsp OD + IAsp for the remaining meals and 
IDet + meal-time IAsp, This 26-week extension trial (Trial 3645) was with the same treatment 
regimen to ensure the most optimal coverage of both basal and bolus requirements. Subjects 
who consented to participate in the extension trial continued to receive treatment with either 
IDegAsp OD + IAsp for the remaining meals or IDet + meal-time IAsp as previously randomised 
in the main trial NN5401-3594. During the one-week follow-up period, the subjects were 
treated with insulin NPH BID + IAsp. 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up (see Trial 3594) 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
No hypothesis was considered as this was an extension trial 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) 
OD + insulin aspart (IAsp) 
Insulin detemir (IDet) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp) 
Primary 
endpoint 
Adverse events 
Primary 
endpoint 
Primary 
endpoint 
Primary 
endpoint 
Primary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint  
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint  
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint  
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 52 
weeks of treatment 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without severe 
hypoglycaemia 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 52 
weeks of treatment 
A total of 366 subjects were randomised in the 
main trial and 254 were included in the extension 
trial to IDegAsp dosed OD at any of the main 
meals with IAsp at the remaining meals. The total 
treatment duration was 26 weeks (main trial) + 
26 weeks (extension). 
A total of 182 subjects randomised in the main trial 
and 122 subjects in the extension trial to IDet, 
dosed at the evening meal or at the bed time + 
mealtime IAsp. A second dose of IDet could be 
added after 8 weeks of treatment in case of 
inadequate glycaemic control. The total treatment 
duration was 26 weeks (main trial) + 26 weeks. 
Adverse Events (AEs) were coded using the most 
recent version of MedDRA coding. All AEs were 
presented based on system organ class and 
preferred terms. The AEs were summarised 
descriptively according to treatment regimen. 
A statistically significant difference was to be 
considered if the 95% CI for the relative risk 
(IDegAsp/IDet) was entirely below one. 
A statistically significant difference was to be 
considered if the 95% CI for the relative risk 
(IDegAsp/IDet) was entirely below one. 
A statistically significant difference was to be 
considered if the 95% CI for the treatment 
difference (IDegAsp minus IDet) was entirely below 
zero. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy 
evaluation.. 
Comparing the difference in change from baseline 
in HbA1c after 52 weeks of treatment between 
IDegAsp and IDet to a non-inferiority limit of 0.4%.  
A statistically significant difference was to be 
considered if the 95% CI for the odds ratio 
(IDegAsp/IDet) was entirely above one. 
A statistically significant difference was to be 
considered if the 95% CI for the treatment 
difference (IDegAsp minus IDet) was entirely below 
zero. 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
04-Jan-2011 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis and Key Supportive Secondary Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 72/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
Analyses of all efficacy endpoints were based on the full analysis set (n=548) as were analyses 
of hypoglycaemia and body weight. All other endpoints related to safety were based on the 
safety analysis set (n=542).  The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 1 
diabetes mellitus with a mean age of 41.3 years (ranging from 18.1 to 80.2 years), mean 
duration of diabetes of 17.4 years (ranging from 1.0 to 59.7 years), mean HbA1c of 8.3 % and 
mean BMI of 26.4 kg/m2. The time point duration for all analyses was 52 weeks. Full analysis 
set included all randomised subjects. Per protocol analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. Safety analysis set 
included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. 
A total of 90.3% of subjects treated with a basal-bolus insulin regimen pre-trial. The majority 
were treated with IGlar (66.2%) pre-trial. A total of 87.4% and 85.7% completed the main trial 
and 63.7% and 62.1% completed extension trial in the IDegAsp and IDet groups, respectively. 
Evaluation of TEAEs was based on descriptive statistics. AEs and hypoglycaemic episodes were 
presented as the event rate per 100 patient years of exposure (PYE). Change from baseline in 
HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an analysis of variance 
(ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed 
factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in body weight 
analysis) as covariates. The responder analysis was based on a logistic regression model using 
the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of HbA1c. The number of hypoglycaemic 
episodes was analysed using a negative binomial regression model with a log-link function and 
the logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment 
emergent as offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age as covariate.  All analyses in this table were pre-specified in the 
protocol. 
Treatment group 
IDegAsp 
IDet  
Number of subjects (FAS) 
366 
182 
Change from baseline in HbA1c (%) 
after 52 weeks of treatment, mean 
(SD) 
HbA1c at baseline mean (SD), % 
HbA1c after Week 52, mean % 
(SD) 
HbA1c <7.0% without severe 
hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
52 weeks of treatment, 
mean mmol/L (SD) 
Observed rate of adverse events 
per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 
PYE 
Rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 
PYE 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 52 
weeks, mean units (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Adverse events 
Primary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Primary endpoint:  
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Primary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Primary Endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 52 
weeks 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in HbA1c (%) 
after 52 weeks of treatment 
0.65 (0.8) 
0.56 (0.8) 
8.30 (0.8) 
7.65 (0.9) 
74 (22.0) 
8.28 (0.7) 
7.72 (0.9) 
28 (16.6) 
1.83 (5.7) 
2.40 (5.9) 
408 
3183 
309 
442 
3673 
541 
2.78 (4.2) 
1.15 (4.1) 
72 (46) 
82 (53) 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegAsp/IDet 
0.95 
[0.79; 1.14] 
IDegAsp/IDet 
0.62 
[0.48;0.79]* 
IDegAsp - IDet 
1.64 
[0.89; 2.38] 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegAsp - IDet 
-0.10  
[-0.24; 0.03]† 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 73/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint:  
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial 
without severe hypoglycaemia 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment 
#= This table contains the results after 52 weeks treatment (26 weeks in the main trial 
NN5401-3594 followed by 26 weeks in the present extension trial NN5401-3645) 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegAsp/IDet 
1.54 
[0.90; 2.63] 
IDegAsp - IDet 
-0.07 
[-0.79; 0.66] 
Notes 
BID: twice daily; BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject 
unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma 
glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; HbA1c < 7% : Endpoint was only defined for subjects exposed for at 
least 12 weeks of treatment; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDegAsp: insulin degludec/insulin aspart; IDet: insulin detemir; 
MedDRA: Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities; NN5401: the name previously used for insulin 
degludec/insulin aspart (IDeg/IAsp); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; NPH: neutral protamine Hagedorn; OD: once daily; 
SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation;  †Non-inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference 
less than or equal to 0.4 (%); *: Statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 74/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3590 
Title: A 26-week, multinational, multi-centre, open-labelled, two-arm, parallel, randomised, treat-to-target, 
efficacy and safety comparison of NN5401 once daily (OD) with insulin glargine (IGlar) OD both in combination 
with metformin in insulin-naïve subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on oral antidiabetic drugs 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN5401-3590; EudraCT number: 2009-011271-78; Study identifier: 
NCT01045707. 
This was a 26-week multinational, multi-centre, open-labelled, randomised (1:1), treat-to-
target, two-arm parallel group trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp OD + met with 
IGlar + met in insulin-naïve subjects diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus. At randomisation, 
previous OAD treatment was discontinued except for met. During the one week follow-up 
subjects were treated with insulin NPH BID + met. 
Duration of main phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval 
for the estimated treatment difference (IDegAsp–IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was below 
or equal to 0.4% (non-inferiority).  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary endpoint then superiority of a number of 
confirmatory secondary endpoints using a hierarchical testing procedure to control the overall 
type I error rate: 1) Prandial PG increment at breakfast (measured by SMPG 90 min after start 
of meal); 2) Fluctuation in nocturnal IG as measured by CGM; 3) HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial 
without confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 4) Number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes; 5) Change from baseline in body weight 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp)   A total of 266 subjects were randomised to 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin glargine (IGlar)  
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Prandial PG increment at 
breakfast meal after 26 
weeks 
Fluctuations in nocturnal 
IG as measured by CGM 
(subpopulation only) 
after 26 weeks 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Mean daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
5) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
23-Nov-2010 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
IDegAsp dosed OD at the breakfast (morning meal) 
+ metformin (met). The total treatment duration 
was 26 weeks. 
A total of 264 subjects randomised to IGlar, dosed 
OD according to the approved labelling + 
metformin (met). The total treatment duration was 
26 weeks. 
See Hypothesis.  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the treatment difference 
(IDegAsp minus IGlar) was entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% 
confidence interval for the treatment ratio 
(IDegAsp/IGlar) was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDegAsp/IGlar) was entirely above 
one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
is confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for the 
estimated rate ratio (IDegAsp/IGlar) was entirely 
below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment difference (IDegAsp minus IGlar) 
was entirely below zero. 
Comparing the change in FPG from baseline 
between IDegAsp and IGlar after 26 weeks of 
treatment.  
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
was compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation 
The insulin dose was a safety endpoint summarised 
descriptively and compared between treatment 
groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Page 75/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Analyses 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The per protocol analysis set included subjects 
without any major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. Analyses of 
efficacy endpoints including analyses of hypoglycaemia and body weight, were based on the 
FAS (n=529), while the safety endpoints were summarized using the SAS (n=526). The SAS 
included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. 
In total, 85.1% of the randomised subjects completed the trial. 
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 56.9 years (ranging from 21.8 to 78.4 years), mean duration of diabetes of 9.2 years 
(range 0.6 to 39.6 years), mean HbA1c of 8.9% and mean BMI of 30.7 kg/m2. The time point 
duration for all analyses was 26 weeks. The majority of subjects (84.1%) were on two OADs 
pre-trial. A total of 82.3% and 87.9% completed the trial in the IDegAsp OD and IGlar OD 
groups, respectively. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG, prandial plasma glucose increment at breakfast, log-
transformed fluctuation in nocturnal interstitial glucose and body weight at end of treatment 
was analysed using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic 
therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age and relevant baseline value as 
covariates. The analysis of subjects reaching HbA1c <7.0% was based on a logistic regression 
model using the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of the primary endpoint. The 
number of hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative binomial regression model 
with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode 
was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic 
therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age as covariate. All analyses in this 
table were pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
IDegAsp 
IDet 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
266 
263 
-1.65 (1.3) 
-1.72 (1.2) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
8.86 (1.0) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % (SD) 
7.21 (1.0) 
HbA1c <7.0% without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
55 (23.6) 
8.91 (0.9) 
7.19 (1.0) 
75 ( 30.7) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment, 
mean mmol/L (SD) 
Prandial PG increment at 
breakfast, after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean mmol/L (SD) 
Fluctuation in nocturnal IG after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD) 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 
PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Insulin daily dose after 26 weeks, 
mean units (SD) 
Primary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Prandial PG increment at 
breakfast after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
2) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Fluctuation in nocturnal 
IG after 26 weeks of treatment 
-3.32 (3.4) 
-4.02 (3.5) 
1.9 (3.0) 
3.4 (2.9) 
0.93 (0.7) 
0.90 (0.7) 
423 
19 
185 
46 
2.47 (3.4) 
1.23 (3.5) 
66 (36) 
59 (33) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment ratio 
95% CI 
IDegAsp - IGlar 
0.03 
[-0.14; 0.20] † 
IDegAsp - IGlar 
-1.40  
[-1.92; -0.88] 
IDegAsp/IGlar 
0.69 
[0.25; 1.92] 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 76/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: HbA1c < 7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia 
4) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Number of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
5) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Insulin daily dose after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegAsp/IGlar 
0.61 
[0.40; 0.94]* 
IDegAsp/IGlar 
0.29 
[0.13; 0.65]* 
IDegAsp - IGlar 
1.31 
[0.72; 1.89]* 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
IDegAsp - IGlar 
0.51  
[0.09; 0.93]* 
IDegAsp/IGlar 
2.17 
[1.59; 2.94]* 
Notes 
BMI: body mass index;  CGM: continuous glucose monitoring; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes: the subject unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; 
FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; HbA1c <7% : Endpoint was only defined for 
subjects exposed for at least 12 treatment weeks; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDegAsp: insulin degludec/insulin aspart;  
IG: interstitial glucose;  IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; NN5401: the name previously used for insulin 
degludec/insulin aspart (IDeg/IAsp); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; PG: 
plasma glucose; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose; †Non-
inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.4 (%); *: Statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 77/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3593 
Title: A 26-week, randomised, open-labelled, two-armed, parallel-group, treat-to-target study comparing efficacy 
and safety of the NN5401 once daily (OD) with insulin glargine OD, both in combination with metformin ± 
pioglitazone ± DPP-4 inhibitors in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with basal insulin OD + 
oral antidiabetic drugs (OADs). 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN5401-3593; EudraCT number: 2008-005767-34; Study identifier: 
NCT01045447 
This was a 26-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (1:1), 
treat-to-target, two-arm parallel-group trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp and 
IGlar in a basal-bolus regimen ± met ± pioglitazone ± DPP-4 inhibitor in subjects with type 2 
diabetes mellitus. After randomisation subjects were switched to trial products and continued 
with the OADs allowed in the trial at unchanged doses, other OADs were to be discontinued. The 
trial was stratified according to prior pioglitazone use.  
Duration of main phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval 
for the estimated treatment difference (IDegAsp OD-IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was 
below or equal to 0.4% (non-inferiority).  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary endpoint then superiority of a number of 
confirmatory secondary endpoints was tested using a hierarchical testing procedure to control 
the overall type I error rate: 1) Prandial PG increment at main evening meal; 2) HbA1c <7.0% 
without confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 3) Fluctuation in nocturnal IG; 4) Number of 
nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 5) Change in baseline in body weight. 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) 
OD  
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin glargine (IGlar)  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
5) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Prandial PG increment at 
main evening meal from 
9-point SMPG profile at 
end of treatment 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes  
Fluctuations in nocturnal  
IG at end of treatment  
Number of treatment 
nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 
weeks of treatment  
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Mean daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment  
A total of 232 subjects were randomised to 
IDegAsp dosed OD with dinner or the largest meal 
OD + metformin (met) ± pioglitazone (pio) ± 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors. The total 
treatment duration was 26 weeks. 
A total of 233 subjects randomised to IGlar, dosed 
OD according to approved labelling + metformin 
(met) ± pioglitazone (pio) ± dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
(DPP-4) inhibitors. The total treatment duration 
was 26 weeks. 
See Hypothesis 
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the treatment difference 
(IDegAsp minus IGlar) was entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDegAsp/IGlar) was entirely above 
one.  
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment ratio (IDegAsp/IGlar) was entirely 
below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated rate ratio (IDegAsp/IGlar) was 
entirely below one.  
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
treatment difference (IDegAsp minus IGlar) was 
entirely below zero. 
Comparing the change in FPG from baseline 
between IDegAsp and IGlar after 26 weeks 
treatment. 
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
was compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
The mean daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Page 78/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
12-Nov-2010 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The per protocol analysis set included subjects 
without any major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. All 
statistical analyses, including analyses of hypoglycaemia and body weight, were based on the 
FAS  (n=463), while the safety endpoints were summarized using the SAS (n=463). The SAS 
included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator.  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 58.1 years (ranging from 27.9 to 84.3 years), mean duration of diabetes of 11.5 years 
(range 0.6 to 55.6 years), mean HbA1c of 8.3% and mean BMI of 30.1 kg/m2. The time point 
duration for all analyses was 26 weeks.  The majority of subjects had been treated with IGlar 
pre-trial, 53.9% in the IDeg group and 61.4% in the IGlar group. A total of 84.5% and 88.0% 
completed the trial in the IDegAsp OD and IGlar groups, respectively. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG, prandial PG increment at evening meal, log-transformed 
fluctuation in nocturnal interstitial glucose and body weight at end of treatment was analysed 
using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) method with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at 
screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age and relevant baseline value as covariates. 
The analysis of subjects reaching HbA1c <7.0% was based on a logistic regression model using 
the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of the primary endpoint. The number of 
hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative binomial regression model with a log-
link function and the logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was 
considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at 
screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age as covariate. All analyses in this table were 
pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
IDegAsp  
IGlar 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
230 
233 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean (SD), % 
HbA1c at baseline mean (SD), % 
-0.98 (1.0) 
-1.00 (1.1) 
8.29 (0.8) 
8.36 (1.0) 
HbA1c at Week 26 mean (SD), % 
7.31 (1.1) 
7.36 (1.0) 
HbA1c <7.0% without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD)  
Prandial PG increment at main evening 
meal (from 9-point SMPG profile) after 
26 weeks of treatment, mean (SD) 
mmol/L 
Fluctuation in nocturnal IG after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean (SD) mmol/L 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body weight, 
mean (SD), kg 
Total daily IDegAsp and IGlar dose after 
26 weeks mean units (SD),  
Primary endpoint: Change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%) after 26 weeks of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Prandial PG increment at main evening 
meal from 9-point SMPG profile at end of 
treatment 
2) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
3) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
44 (20.9) 
50 (23.5) 
-1.68 (3.0) 
-1.88 (3.0) 
1.2 (3.7) 
2.6 (2.9) 
0.89 (0.7) 
0.97 (0.7) 
431 
82 
320 
101 
1.20 (2.7) 
0.98 (3.0) 
60 (36) 
60 (36) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegAsp - IGlar 
-0.03 
[-0.20; 0.14] † 
IDegAsp - IGlar 
-1.32  
[-1.93; -0.72] 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp / IGlar 
0.80 
[0.50; 1.30] 
IDegAsp / IGlar 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 79/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fluctuations in nocturnal  IG at end of 
treatment  
4) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Number of treatment nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
5) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 26 weeks of treatment  
Supportive secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:   Mean 
daily insulin dose after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
0.97 
Treatment ratio 
[0.74; 1.28] 
95% CI 
IDegAsp / IGlar 
Comparison groups 
0.80 
Rate ratio 
[0.49; 1.30] 
95% CI 
IDegAsp - IGlar 
Comparison groups 
0.33 
Treatment contrast 
[-0.17; 0.83] 
95% CI 
IDegAsp - IGlar 
Comparison groups 
0.33  
Treatment contrast 
[-0.11; 0.77] 
95% CI 
IDegAsp / IGlar 
Comparison groups 
1.43 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
[1.07; 1.92]* 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
Notes 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat 
himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; DPP-4: dipeptidyl peptidase-4; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: 
fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; HbA1c <7% : Endpoint was only defined for subjects 
exposed for at least 12 treatment weeks; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDegAsp: insulin degludec/insulin aspart; IG: 
interstitial glucose; IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; NN5401: the name previously used for insulin 
degludec/insulin aspart (IDeg/IAsp); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; PG: 
plasma glucose; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose; †Non-
inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.4 (%);   *: Statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 80/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3592 
Title: A 26-week, randomised, open-labelled, two-arm, parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing efficacy 
and safety of NN5401 twice daily (BID) with biphasic insulin aspart (BIAsp) 30 BID, with or without metformin, 
with or without DPP 4 inhibitor, with or without pioglitazone in subjects with type 2 diabetes in inadequate 
glycaemic control on once or twice daily premixed or self mixed insulin regimen with or without OADs 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN5401-3592; EudraCT number: 2008-005768-15; Study identifier: 
NCT01009580. 
This was a 26-week multinational, multi-centre, open-labelled, randomised (1:1), stratified, 
two-arm parallel group trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp BID with the BIAsp 30 
BID treatment, both ± met ± DPP-4 inhibitor ± pioglitazone, in subjects diagnosed with type 2 
diabetes mellitus, not optimally controlled on once daily (OD) or BID premixed or self-mixed 
insulin regimen ± OADs. Stratification was carried out according to the number of daily 
injections at screening (1 insulin injection a day or 2 insulin injections a day). 
Duration of main phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval 
for the estimated treatment difference (IDegAsp–BIAsp 30) for the mean change in HbA1c was 
below or equal to 0.4% (non-inferiority).  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary endpoint then superiority could be confirmed for 
a number of confirmatory secondary endpoints using a hierarchical testing procedure to control 
the overall type I error rate: 1) Change from baseline in FPG; 2) Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes; 3) HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes; 4) Change from baseline in body weight; 5) Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) 
BID  
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Biphasic insulin aspart (BIAsp) 30 BID 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
5) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
23-Sept-2010 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central-lab 
measured) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment  
A total of 224 subjects were randomised to 
IDegAsp dosed BID at breakfast and the main 
evening meal ± metformin (met) ± dipeptidyl 
peptidase-4 (DPP-4)  ± pioglitazone (pio) dosed as 
pre-trial. The total treatment duration was 
26 weeks. 
A total of 223 subjects randomised to BIAsp 30 
BID at breakfast and at the main evening meal ± 
metformin (met) ± dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) 
± pioglitazone (pio). The total treatment duration 
was 26 weeks.  
See Hypothesis. 
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the treatment difference 
(IDegAsp BID minus BIAsp 30 BID) was entirely 
below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDegAsp BID/BIAsp 30 BID) was 
entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDegAsp BID/BIAsp 30 BID) was 
entirely above one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment difference (IDegAsp BID minus 
BIAsp 30 BID) was entirely below zero.. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment ratio (IDegAsp BID/BIAsp 30 BID) 
was entirely below one. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 81/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The per protocol analysis set included subjects 
without any major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. Analyses of 
efficacy endpoints including analyses of hypoglycaemia and body weight, were based on the 
FAS  (n=446), while the safety endpoints were summarised using the safety analysis set 
(n=446). The safety analysis set included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the 
investigational product or its comparator.  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 58.7 years (range 20.4 to 88.8 years), mean duration of diabetes of 13.0 years (ranging 
from 0.6 to 41.4 years), mean HbA1c of 8.4 % and mean BMI of 29.3 kg/m2. The time point 
duration for all analyses was 26 weeks. Pre-trial 49.1% of the subjects were treated with 
biphasic insulin aspart 30 and 42.6% were treated with biphasic human insulin. A total of 
87.9% and 84.3% completed the trial in the IDegAsp BID and BIAsp 30 BID group, 
respectively. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in 
body weight analysis) as covariates. The analysis of subjects reaching HbA1c <7.0% was based 
on a logistic regression model using the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of the 
primary endpoint. The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative 
binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period in which 
a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included 
treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age as 
covariate.  All analyses in this table were pre-specified in the protocol.  
Treatment group 
BIAsp 30  
IDegAsp  
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
224 
-1.28 (0.9) 
222 
-1.30 (1.0) 
8.33 (0.8) 
8.40 (0.9) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % (SD) 
7.05 (0.9) 
7.10 (0.9) 
HbA1c <7.0% without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
Change in FPG, mean mmol/L 
(SD) 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 
PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
per 100 PYE 
Change in body weight after 26 
weeks, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 26 
weeks, mean units (SD)  
Primary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in HbA1c after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Change from baseline in 
FPG after 26 weeks of treatment 
2) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
3) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: HbA1c < 7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia 
4) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Change in body weight 
after 26 weeks of treatment  
5) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Number of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
Secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 26 
weeks of treatment 
44 (21.8) 
29 (14.9) 
-3.09 (3.0) 
-1.76 (2.8) 
972 
74 
1396 
253 
1.68 (3.0) 
2.16 (2.7) 
90 (50) 
98 (54) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
IDegAsp – BIAsp 30  
-0.03 
[-0.18; 0.13]† 
IDegAsp – BIAsp 30  
-1.14  
[-1.53; -0.76]* 
IDegAsp/BIAsp 30  
0.68 
[ 0.52;0.89]* 
IDegAsp/BIAsp 30  
1.60 
[0.94; 2.72] 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
No statistical analysis was performed 
IDegAsp – BIAsp 30  
-0.62 
[-1.15; -0.10]* 
IDegAsp/BIAsp 30  
0.27 
[0.18; 0.41]* 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 82/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BIAsp: biphasic insulin aspart; BID: twice daily; BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; DPP-4: 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; 
HbA1c <7% : Endpoint was only defined for subjects exposed for at least 12 treatment weeks; IAsp: insulin aspart; 
IDegAsp: insulin degludec/insulin aspart; IG: interstitial glucose; IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; NN5401: 
the name previously used for insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDeg/IAsp); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; OAD: oral 
antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; pio: pioglizatone; PG: plasma glucose; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard 
deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose; †Non-inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less 
than or equal to 0.4 (%); *: Statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 83/151 
 
 
 
 
 Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3597 
Title: A 26 week trial, randomised, open label, two arm, parallel group, treat to target study comparing efficacy and 
safety of the NN5401 twice daily with biphasic insulin aspart 30 twice daily, with or without metformin in subjects 
with type 2 diabetes in inadequate glycaemic control on once or twice daily insulin regimen with or without metformin 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN5401-3597; EudraCT number: not applicable; Japanese Trial number: 
21-2751; Study identifier: NCT01059812.  
This was a 26-week Pan Asian, multi-centre, open-label, randomised, stratified, two-arm parallel 
group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp BID  met with BIAsp 30 
BID  met treatment. Subjects eligible for this trial were subject diagnosed with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus, not optimally controlled on OD or BID human or analogue basal insulin, premixed or self-
mixed insulin regimen ± met. Stratification was to be performed according to previous insulin 
regimen and met treatment at screening. Randomisation was to be carried out in a 2:1 manner to 
IDegAsp : BIAsp 30, both BID. During the one week follow-up period subjects were treated with 
biphasic human insulin 30 (BHI). 
Duration of main phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval for 
the estimated treatment difference (IDegAspBIAsp 30) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or 
equal to 0.4% (non-inferiority).  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary endpoint then superiority of a number of 
confirmatory secondary endpoints was tested using a hierarchical testing procedure to control the 
overall type I error rate: 1) Change from baseline in FPG; 2) Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes; 3) HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 4) Change 
from baseline in body weight; 5) Number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) 
BID  
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Biphasic insulin aspart (BIAsp) 30 BID 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
5) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
17-Jan-2011 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
HbA1c < 7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
A total of 282 subjects were randomised to IDegAsp 
dosed BID with the breakfast meal and main evening 
meal metformin (met) dosed as pre-trial. The total 
treatment duration was 26 weeks. 
A total of 142 subjects randomised to BIAsp 30, dosed 
with the breakfast meal and main evening meal 
metformin (met) dosed as pre-trial. The total 
treatment duration was 26 weeks.  
See Hypothesis. 
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the treatment difference 
(IDegAsp minus BIAsp) was entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority was 
confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for the 
estimated rate ratio (IDegAsp/BIAsp 30) was entirely 
below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority was 
confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for the odds 
ratio (IDegAsp/BIAsp 30) was entirely above one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority was 
confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for the 
treatment difference (IDegAsp minus BIAsp) was 
entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority was 
confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for the 
estimated rate ratio (IDegAsp/BIAsp 30) was entirely 
below one. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary  
Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 84/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The per protocol analysis set included subjects without 
any major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. Analyses of efficacy 
endpoints including analyses of hypoglycaemia and body weight, were based on the FAS (n=422), 
while the safety endpoints were summarized using the SAS (n=420). The SAS included all subjects 
receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator.  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 59.8 years (ranging from 30.0 to 88.5 years), mean duration of diabetes of 16.3 years 
(ranging from 0.7 to 47.8 years), mean HbA1c of 8.4 % and mean BMI of 25.4 kg/m2. The time 
point duration for all analyses was 26 weeks.  A majority of subjects (69.4%) had been treated pre-
trial on a premix/self-mix insulin regimen with or without OADs . Of these, 41.5% of the subjects 
were treated with biphasic insulin aspart 30 and 19.7% were treated with biphasic human insulin. A 
total of 86.9% and 88.7% completed the trial in the IDegAsp BID and BIAsp 30 BID groups, 
respectively. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in body 
weight analysis) as covariates. The analysis of subjects reaching HbA1c <7.0% was based on a 
logistic regression model using the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of the primary 
endpoint. The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative binomial 
regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period in which a 
hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included 
treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age as covariate.  
All analyses in this table were pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
BIAsp 30  
IDegAsp  
Number of subjects (FAS) 
280 
142 
Change from baseline in HbA1c  after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
1.38 (0.9) 
1.42 (1.0) 
8.45 (0.8) 
8.44 (0.9) 
HbA1c at Week 26,mean % (SD) 
7.07 (0.8) 
7.02 (0.8) 
HbA1c <7.0% at the end of trial without 
confirmed hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
56 (21.9) 
17 (13.2) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean mmol/L (SD) 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE  
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 26 weeks of treatment, mean kg 
(SD)  
Total daily insulin dose after 26 weeks, 
mean units (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%) after 26 weeks of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG (central lab-
measured) after 26 weeks of treatment 
2) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
3) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
4) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 26 weeks of treatment 
5) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
2.55 (2.6) 
1.47 (2.6) 
956 
111 
952 
155 
1.14 (2.9) 
1.43 (3.0) 
55 (40) 
68 (46) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
IDegAsp – BIAsp 30  
0.05 
0.10; 0.20† 
IDegAsp – BIAsp 30  
1.06  
[1.43; 0.70]* 
IDegAsp /BIAsp 30  
1.00 
[0.76; 1.32] 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
IDegAsp /BIAsp 30  
1.77 
[0.97; 3.25] 
IDegAsp – BIAsp 30  
0.38 
[0.96; 0.21] 
IDegAsp /BIAsp 30  
0.67 
[0.43; 1.06] 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 85/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
BIAsp: biphasic insulin aspart; BID: twice daily, BHI: biphasic human insulin; BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence 
interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 
3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; HbA1c <7% : 
Endpoint was only defined for subjects exposed for at least 12 treatment weeks; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDegAsp: 
insulin degludec/insulin aspart; NN5401: the name previously used for insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDeg/IAsp); 
Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; OD: once daily; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; †Non-inferiority criterion: 
Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.4 (%); *: Statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 86/151 
 
 
 
 
IDegAsp – Therapeutic Exploratory Trials 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 1791 
Title: A 16 week randomised, open labelled, 3 armed, parallel group, treat-to-target trial comparing once daily 
injection of SIAC 30 (B), SIAC 45 (B) and insulin glargine, all in combination with metformin in subjects with 
type 2 diabetes failing on OAD treatment 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN5401-1791; EudraCT number: 2007-002476-33; Study identifier: 
NCT00614055.  
This was a 16-week randomised, stratified, open labelled, parallel group, multicentre, 
multinational, efficacy and safety, treat-to-target trial comparing glycaemic control as assessed 
by HbA1c after treatment with IDegAsp 30, IDegAsp 45 or IGlar. All treatments were given once 
daily (OD) in combination with met, in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus, inadequately 
controlled on OAD treatment.  Stratification was carried out according to previous OAD 
treatment. The suitability of the trial population was ensured by including an up-titration period 
prior to randomisation: the current anti-diabetes treatment was discontinued followed by a two-
week up-titration period with met towards a final dose of 1500 or 2000 mg/day and an one-week 
maintenance period. 
IDegAsp 30 (B) is the formulation used in the confirmatory trials named insulin degludec/insulin 
aspart (IDegAsp). B refers to the pharmaceutical formulation. The development of the alternative 
formulation, IDegAsp 45 (B) has been discontinued and is therefore not shown in this table (for 
IDegAsp 45 (B) results, see trial report Trial 1791 (M 5.3.5.1)). 
Duration of main phase: 
All pair-wise treatment differences between IDegAsp 30, IDegAsp 45 and IGlar were 
investigated. The aim of the primary analysis was to estimate the difference between treatments 
in HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment and not to show formal superiority or non-inferiority. 
Estimated treatment means and treatment differences with corresponding 95% confidence 
intervals were presented based on the estimates from the statistical models that were used. The 
primary endpoint was analysed using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) approach with treatment, 
country, sex and OAD treatment at screening as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c as 
covariates. 
Insulin degludec/insulin 
aspart  30 B (IDegAsp 30 
B)  
Insulin degludec/insulin 
aspart  45 B (IDegAsp 45 
B)  
A total of 59 subjects were randomised to IDegAsp 30 (B) dosed 
OD before dinner + metformin (met) at main meals. The total 
treatment duration was 16 weeks.  
A total of 59 subjects were randomised to IDegAsp 45 (B) dosed 
OD before dinner + metformin (met) at main meals. The total 
treatment duration was 16 weeks. Endpoints not described and 
results are not shown for this treatment arm as development 
discontinued. 
A total of 60 subjects were randomised to IGlar dosed OD before 
dinner + metformin (met). The total treatment duration was 16 
weeks.  
16 weeks + 2 weeks follow-up 
Insulin glargine (IGlar)  
Hypothesis 
Treatment 
groups 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Additional 
primary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 16 weeks of 
treatment 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial 
without confirmed 
hypoglycemic episodes 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-measured) 
after 16 weeks of treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Prandial PG increment after 
16 weeks of treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Number of confirmeda 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmeda hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 16 weeks 
of treatment 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
see Hypothesis 
Summarising the proportion of subjects reaching 
HbA1c <7.0% after 16 weeks of treatment 
without confirmed hypoglycemic episodes in the 
last 4 weeks of treatment. Comparison between 
IDegAsp 30 (B) and BIAsp 30, both in 
combination with met. 
Comparing the difference in change from 
baseline in FPG after 16 weeks of treatment with 
IDegAsp 30 (B) and IGlar, both in combination 
with met. 
Comparing the 9-point SMPG meal increments 
after 16 weeks of treatment with IDegAsp 30 (B) 
and IGlar, both in combination with met. 
Comparing the number of confirmeda 
hypoglycaemic episodes between treatments 
groups was a safety endpoint and assessed by 
statistical analysis. 
Comparing the number of confirmeda nocturnal 
hypoglycaemic episodes between treatment 
groups was a safety endpoint and assessed by 
statistical analysis. 
Comparing body weight change from baseline to 
16 weeks of treatment between treatment 
groups was a safety endpoint and assessed by 
statistical analysis. 
Page 87/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Total daily insulin dose after 
16 weeks of treatment 
The total daily insulin dose was summarised 
descriptively and compared between treatment 
groups. 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
14November2008 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
Primary and Secondary Analyses 
Full analysis set included all randomised subjects. Per protocol analysis set included subjects 
without any major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. Analyses of 
efficacy endpoints including analyses of primary and secondary efficacy endpoints as well as 
confirmed hypoglycaemia and nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia, were based on the full 
analysis set (n=178). In addition, the primary endpoint was also analysed based on the 
Per-protocol analysis set (n=143), while the safety endpoints were summarised using the safety 
analysis set (n=178). Safety analysis set included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the 
investigational product or its comparator.  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 59.1 years (ranging from 34 to 74 years), mean duration of diabetes of 9.0 years (ranging 
from 0.7 to 43.1 years), mean HbA1c of 8.5% and mean BMI of 30.3 kg/m2. The time point 
duration for all analyses was 16 weeks. In total, 91.6% of randomised subjects completed the 
trial.  
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG, 9-point SMPG mean postprandial increments, mean IG after 
16 weeks and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an analysis of variance 
(ANOVA) model with treatment, country, sex and OAD treatment at screening as fixed factors, 
and age, baseline HbA1c and relevant baseline value as covariates. The analysis of subjects 
reaching HbA1c <7.0% was based on a logistic regression model using the same factors and 
covariates as for the analysis of the primary endpoint. Fluctuations of the IG profiles after 
16 weeks of treatment were log transformed and analysed separately using ANOVA method with 
the addition of the profile mean as a covariate. The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was 
analysed using a negative binomial model with a log-link function and the logarithm of length of 
the profiles (in days) as offset. The model included treatment, OAD treatment at screening, sex 
and country as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c as covariates.  
Treatment group 
IDegAsp 30 (B) 
IGlar 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
59 
60 
-1.31 (1.01) 
-1.29 (1.10) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 
16 weeks of treatment mean %(SD)  
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
8.3 (1.2) 
HbA1c at Week 16, mean % (SD) 
7.0 (1.0) 
HbA1c < 7.0% at end of trial, N (%) 
33 (55.9) 
8.4 (1.3) 
7.1 (1.3) 
31 (51.7) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
16 weeks of treatment, 
mean mmol/L (SD)  
Prandial PG increment, mean mmol/L 
(SD)  
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 16 weeks of treatment, 
mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 
16 weeks of treatment, mean units 
(SD) 
Primary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in HbA1c (%) 
after 16 weeks of treatment 
Additional primary endpoint: 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial  
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
16 weeks of treatment 
-4.30 (3.45) 
-5.07 (3.85) 
1.32 (1.51) 
2.32 (1.99) 
115 
6 
67 
17 
-0.4 (2.3) 
-0.1 (3.2) 
33 (15) 
40 (21) 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) - IGlar 
Treatment contrast 
-0.11 
95% CI 
[-0.41; 0.19] 
No statistical analysis was performed 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) - IGlar 
Treatment contrast 
-0.13 
95% CI 
[-1.03; 0.77] 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 88/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint: 
Prandial PG increment after 
16 weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodesa 
Secondary endpoint: 
Number of confirmed nocturnal 
hypoglycaemic episodesa 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 16 weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Total daily insulin dose after 
16 weeks of treatment 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) - IGlar 
Treatment contrast 
-0.78 
95% CI 
[-1.47;-0.09] 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) / IGlar 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
2.30 
[0.95; 5.58] 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) / IGlar 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
0.42 
0.04; 4.84 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) - IGlar 
Treatment contrast 
-0.38 
95% CI 
[-1.34; 0.58] 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
Notes 
aMinor episodes same as confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes without major/severe episodes (no 
major/severe episodes reported in this trial, i.e., minor = confirmed). 
BMI: body mass index; CGM: continuous glucose monitoring; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes: the subject unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; 
FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; HbA1c <7% : Endpoint was only defined for 
subjects exposed for at least 12 treatment weeks; IGlar: insulin glargine; IDegAsp: insulin degludec/insulin aspart;  
IG: interstitial glucose; IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; NN5401: the name previously used for insulin 
degludec/insulin aspart (IDeg/IAsp); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; PG: 
plasma glucose; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SIAC - soluble insulin analogue combination was 
a name formerly used for insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp); SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose;  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 89/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 1792 
Title: A 16 week randomised, open labelled, 3-armed, parallel group, treat-to-target trial comparing twice daily 
(BID) injections of SIAC 30 (B), SIAC 45 (B) and NovoMix 30, all in combination with metformin in subjects with 
type 2 diabetes failing on OAD treatment. 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN5401-1792; EudraCT number: 2007-002462-35; Study identifier: 
NCT00613951.  
This was a 16-week multinational, multicentre, open-labelled, randomised (1:1:1), stratified, 
three-armed parallel group, efficacy and safety, treat-to-target trial comparing glycaemic control 
as assessed by HbA1c after treatment with IDegAsp 30 (B), IDegAsp 45 (B) and NovoMix30 
(BIAsp 30), all treatments given twice daily (BID) in combination with met in subjects diagnosed 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Stratification was carried out according to previous OAD treatment. 
The suitability of the trial population was ensured by including an up-titration period prior to 
randomisation: the current anti-diabetes treatment was discontinued followed by a two-week up-
titration period with met towards a final dose of 1500 or 2000 mg/day and an one-week 
maintenance period.  
IDegAsp 30 (B) is the formulation used in the confirmatory trials named insulin degludec/insulin 
aspart (IDegAsp). The development of the alternative formulation, IDegAsp 45 (B) has been 
discontinued and is therefore not shown in this table (for IDegAsp 45 (B) results see trial report 
Trial 1792 (M 5.3.5.1)). 
Duration of main phase: 
All pair wise treatment differences between IDegAsp 30 (B), IDegAsp 45 (B) and BIAsp 30 
concerning HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment were investigated. The aim of the trial was to 
estimate the difference between the treatments and not to show formal superiority or 
non-inferiority. Estimated treatment means and treatment differences with corresponding 95% 
confidence intervals were presented based on the estimates from the statistical models that were 
used. The primary endpoint was analysed using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) approach with 
treatment, country, sex and OAD treatment at screening as fixed factors, and age and baseline 
HbA1c as covariates. 
Insulin degludec/insulin 
aspart  30 B (IDegAsp 30 
B)  
Insulin degludec/insulin 
aspart  45 B (IDegAsp 45 
B)  
A total of 61 subjects were randomised to IDegAsp 30 (B) dosed 
BID pre-breakfast and dinner + metformin (met) at main meals. 
The total treatment duration was 16 weeks. 
A total of 59 subjects were randomised to IDegAsp 45 (B), dosed 
BID pre-breakfast and dinner + metformin (met) at main meals. 
The total treatment duration was 16 weeks. Endpoints are not 
described and results are not shown for this treatment arm as 
development discontinued. 
A total of 62 subjects were randomised to BIAsp 30, dosed BID 
pre-breakfast and dinner + metformin (met) at main meals. The 
total treatment duration was 16 weeks. 
Biphasic human insulin 30 
(BIAsp 30; NovoMix  30)  
16 weeks + 2 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
Treatment 
groups 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Additional 
primary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 16 weeks of 
treatment 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial 
without confirmed 
hypoglycemic episodes 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-measured) 
after 16 weeks of treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Prandial PG increment after 
16 weeks of treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Number of confirmeda 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
 Secondary 
endpoint 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmeda hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 16 weeks 
of treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Total daily insulin dose after 
16 weeks of treatment 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
See Hypothesis 
Summarising the proportion of subjects reaching 
HbA1c <7.0% after 16 weeks of treatment 
without confirmed hypoglycemic episodes in the 
last 4 weeks of treatment. Comparison between 
IDegAsp 30 (B) and BIAsp 30, both in 
combination with met. 
Comparing the difference in change from 
baseline in FPG after 16 weeks of treatment with 
IDegAsp 30 (B) and BIAsp 30, both in 
combination with met. 
Comparing the 9-point SMPG increments during 
16 weeks of treatment with IDegAsp 30 (B) and 
BIAsp 30, both in combination with met. 
Comparing the number of confirmeda 
hypoglycaemic episodes between treatment 
groups was a safety endpoint and assessed by 
statistical analysis. 
Comparing the number of confirmeda nocturnal 
hypoglycaemic episodes between treatment 
groups was a safety endpoint and assessed by 
statistical analysis. 
Comparing body weight change from baseline to 
16 weeks of treatment between treatment 
groups was a safety endpoint and assessed by 
statistical analysis. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups. 
Page 90/151 
 
 
 
 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
14November2008 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate (SD) 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison  
Primary and Secondary Analyses 
The full analysis set included all randomised subjects. The per protocol analysis set included 
subjects without any major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. 
Analyses of efficacy endpoints including analyses of primary and secondary efficacy endpoints as 
well as confirmed hypoglycaemia and nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia, were based on the full 
analysis set (n= 182), while the safety endpoints were summarised using the safety analysis set 
(n=181). The safety analysis set included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the 
investigational product or its comparator.  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 59.6 years (ranging from 34 to 75 years), mean duration of diabetes of 9.4 years (ranging 
from 0.6 to 36.2 years), mean HbA1c of 8.5 % and mean BMI of 31.4 kg/m2. The time point 
duration for all analyses was 16 weeks.  The distribution of pre-trial OAD treatment regimen was 
similar in all three treatment groups because pre-trial OAD treatment was stratified at 
randomisation. A total of 88.5%, 91.5% and 91.9% completed the trial in the IDegAsp, IDegAsp 
45 and BIAsp 30 groups, respectively.  
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG, 9-point SMPG mean postprandial increments, mean IG after 
16 weeks, and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an analysis of variance 
(ANOVA) model with treatment, OAD treatment at screening, sex and country as fixed factors, 
and age, baseline HbA1c, baseline FPG in FPG analysis and baseline body weight in body weight 
analysis as covariates. Fluctuations of the IG profiles after 16 weeks of treatment were log 
transformed and analysed separately using ANOVA method with the addition of the profile mean 
as a covariate. The analysis of subjects reaching HbA1c <7.0% was based on a logistic regression 
model using the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of the primary endpoint. The 
number of hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative binomial regression model 
with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode 
was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, OAD treatment at 
screening, sex and country as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c as covariates. All 
analyses in this trial were pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
IDegAsp 30 (B) 
BIAsp 30 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
61 
62 
-1.79 (1.11) 
-1.84 (0.93) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 
16 weeks of treatment mean %(SD)  
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
8.5 (1.2) 
HbA1c at Week 16, mean % (SD) 
6.7 (1.0) 
HbA1c < 7.0% at end of trial, N (%) 
45 (73.8) 
8.6 (1.0) 
6.7 (0.7) 
48 (77.4) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
16 weeks of treatment, 
mean mmol/L (SD)  
Prandial PG increment, mean mmol/L 
(SD)  
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 16 weeks of treatment, 
mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 
16 weeks of treatment, mean units 
(SD) 
Primary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 
16 weeks of treatment 
Additional primary endpoint: 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
16 weeks of treatment 
-5.07 (2.89) 
-4.28 (3.01) 
0.84 (1.72) 
1.11 (1.53) 
287 
39 
730 
108 
1.1 (2.8) 
1.4 (3.2) 
52 (27)  
61 (29) 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) – BIAsp 30 
Treatment contrast 
-0.02 
95% CI 
[-0.27; 0.24] 
No statistical analysis was performed 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) – BIAsp 30 
Treatment contrast 
-0.99 
95% CI 
[-1.68;-0.29] 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 91/151 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint: 
Prandial PG increment after 16 
weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Secondary endpoint: 
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) - BIAsp 30 
Treatment contrast 
-0.23 
95% CI 
[-0.84; 0.38] 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) / BIAsp 30 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
0.42 
[0.23; 0.75] 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) / BIAsp 30 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
0.33 
[0.09; 1.14] 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 16 weeks of treatment, mean 
kg, (SD) 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) - BIAsp 30 
Treatment contrast 
-0.14 
95% CI 
[-1.14; 0.87] 
Secondary endpoint: 
Total daily insulin dose (U) 
Comparison groups 
IDegAsp 30 (B) / BIAsp 30 
Treatment ratio 
0.85 
Notes 
aConfirmed hypoglycaemic episodes are the same as minor hypoglycaemic episodes in this trial 
as there were no major or severe episodes reported in this trial (i.e., minor = confirmed).  
BIAsp: biphasic insulin aspart; BMI: body mass index;  CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: 
the subject unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: 
fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; HbA1c <7% : Endpoint was only defined for subjects 
exposed for at least 12 treatment weeks; IDegAsp: insulin degludec/insulin aspart;  IG: interstitial glucose; met: 
metformin; NN5401: the name previously used for insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDeg/IAsp); Nocturnal: 00:01-
05:59; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; PG: plasma glucose; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard 
deviation; SIAC - soluble insulin analogue combination was a name formerly used for insulin degludec/insulin aspart 
(IDegAsp); SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 92/151 
 
 
 
 
 
IDeg – Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3583 
Title: A 52-week randomised, controlled, open-label, multicentre, multinational, parallel, treat-to-target trial 
comparing efficacy and safety of NN1250 and insulin glargine both administered once daily in a basal-bolus 
regimen with insulin aspart as mealtime insulin in subjects with type 1 diabetes 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN1250-3583; EudraCT number: 2008-005774-13; Study identifier: 
NCT00982228.  
This trial was a 52-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (3:1), two arm 
parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDeg OD with IGlar OD, 
all in combination with IAsp. During the 1-week follow-up period, the subjects were treated with 
insulin NPH + IAsp. Subjects eligible for the trial were subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus 
treated with any basal-bolus regimen. The trial has been extended with a 52-week extension 
trial.  
52 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Duration of main phase: 
52 weeks + 1 week follow-up (Trial 3644, ongoing) 
Duration of extension phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg  IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or equal to 0.4% 
(non-inferiority).  
The trial also aimed at showing superiority of a number of confirmatory secondary endpoints 
using a hierarchical testing procedure to control the overall type I error rate: 1) Number of 
nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 2) Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 
3) Change from baseline in FPG; 4) Within-subject variation in SMPG. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp) 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin glargine (IGlar) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatorys
econdary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatorys
econdary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
3) 
Confirmatorys
econdary 
endpoint  
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
52 weeks of treatment 
4) 
Confirmatorys
econdary 
endpoint 
Within-subject variability 
in SMPG after 52 weeks 
of treatment 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
08-Dec-2010 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Total daily insulin dose 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
A total of 472 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD with the main evening meal + IAsp at 
main meals. The total treatment duration was 
52 weeks. 
A total of 157 subjects were randomised to IGlar 
dosed OD according to approved labelling + IAsp 
at main meals. The total treatment duration was 
52 weeks.  
See Hypothesis. 
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the estimated rate ratio 
(IDeg/IGlar) was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated rate ratio (IDeg/IGlar) was entirely 
below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment difference (IDeg minus IGlar) was 
entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated treatment ratio (IDeg/IGlar) (CV%) 
was entirely below one. 
Body weight change from baseline to 52 weeks was 
compared between treatment groups and assessed 
by statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 93/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The SAS included all 
subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. Analyses of 
efficacy endpoints including analyses of confirmatory analyses on confirmed hypoglycaemia and 
nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia, were based on the FAS (n=629), while the safety 
endpoints were summarised using the SAS (n=626). The population consisted of male and 
female subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus with a mean age of 43.0 years (ranging from 18.4 
to 78.2 years), mean duration of diabetes of 18.9 years (ranging from 1.0 to 63.2  years), 
mean HbA1c of 7.7 % and mean BMI of 26.1 kg/m2. The time point duration for all analyses was 
52 weeks. A total of 99% of the subjects in both treatment groups were treated with a 
basal-bolus insulin regimen pre-trial. Of these 70.6% of the subjects were treated with IGlar 
pre-trial. A total of 85.6% of subjects in the IDeg group and 87.3% of subjects in the IGlar 
group completed the trial. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and relevant baseline value as covariates. Within-subject 
variability (CV%) for a treatment was calculated from the corresponding residual variance 
estimated from a linear mixed model analysing the logarithmically transformed pre-breakfast 
SMPG values as repeated measures. The model included treatment, antidiabetic treatment at 
screening, sex, and region as factors, age as covariate, subject as random factor and assumed 
independent within- and between-subject errors with variance depending on treatment. The 
number of hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative binomial regression model 
with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode 
was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic 
therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age as covariate. All analyses were 
pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
IGlar 
IDeg 
157 
-0.39 (0.8) 
7.72 (1.0) 
7.33 (1.1) 
-1.39 (5.3) 
Not 
Applicable 
4017.7 
585.7 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 52 
weeks of treatment, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 52, mean % (SD) 
Change from baseline in FPG  after 52 
weeks of treatment, mean mmol/L (SD)  
472 
-0.40 (0.7) 
7.69 (0.9) 
7.29 (1.0) 
-1.27 (5.0) 
Within-subject variability in SMPG after 
52 weeks of treatment, CV% 
Not 
Applicable 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 52 weeks of treatment, mean kg 
(SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 52 weeks of 
treatment mean units (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%) after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
2) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
3) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
52 weeks of treatment 
4) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Within-subject variability (CV%) in 
SMPG after 52 weeks of treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 52 weeks of treatment 
4253.6 
440.7 
1.79 (4.0) 
1.59 (4.2) 
61 (34) 
66 (34) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDeg – IGlar 
-0.01 
[-0.14; 0.11]† 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.75 
[0.59; 0.96]* 
IDeg/IGlar 
1.07 
[0.89; 1.28] 
IDeg – IGlar 
-0.33  
[-1.03; 0.36] 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.96 
[0.86; 1.05] 
IDeg – IGlar 
0.18 
[-0.54; 0.91] 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 94/151 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat 
himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c: 
glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDeg: insulin degludec; IGlar: insulin glargine; NN1250: the 
name previously used for insulin degludec (IDeg); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; NPH: neutral protamine Hagedorn; OD: 
once daily; PP: per protocol; PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; 
SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose (pre-breakfast); †Non-inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference 
less than or equal to 0.4 (%);  *: statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 95/151 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3585 
Title: A 26-week confirmatory, randomised, controlled, open-label, multicentre, multinational, parallel, 
treat-to-target trial comparing efficacy and safety of NN1250 and insulin detemir in a basal-bolus regimen with 
insulin aspart as mealtime insulin in subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN1250-3585; EudraCT number: 2009-011672-29; Study identifier: 
NCT01074268.  
This trial was a 26-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (2:1), two arm 
parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDeg OD with IDet OD 
or BID, all in combination with IAsp. During the 1-week follow-up period, the subjects were 
treated with insulin NPH + IAsp. Subjects eligible for the trial were subjects with type 1 diabetes 
mellitus treated with any basal-bolus regimen. The trial has been extended with a 26-week 
extension trial. 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of extension trial: 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up (Trial 3725, ongoing) 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg  IDet) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or equal to 0.4% 
(non-inferiority).  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary endpoint then superiority of a number of 
confirmatory secondary endpoints was tested using a hierarchical testing procedure to control 
the overall type I error rate: 1) Number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 2) 
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 3) Change from baseline in FPG; 4) Within-
subject variability in SMPG.  
Insulin degludec (IDeg) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp) 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin detemir (IDet) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatorys
econdary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Within-subject variability 
in SMPG after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
10-Jan -2011 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
A total of 303 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD in the evening (from start of main 
evening meal to bedtime) + IAsp at main meals. 
The total treatment duration was 26 weeks. 
A total of 153 subjects randomised to IDet dosed 
OD according to approved labelling + IAsp at main 
meals. A second dose of IDet could be added after 
8 weeks of treatment, in case of inadequate 
glycaemic control. The total treatment duration 
was 26 weeks.  
See Hypothesis.  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the estimated rate ratio 
(IDeg/IDet) was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated rate ratio (IDeg/IDet) was entirely 
below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment difference (IDeg minus IDet) was 
entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated treatment ratio (IDeg/IDet) (CV%) 
was entirely below one. 
Body weight change from baseline to 26 weeks was 
compared between treatment groups and assessed 
by statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 96/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The SAS included all 
subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. Analyses of 
efficacy endpoints, including analyses of body weight and hypoglycaemia, were based on FAS 
(n=455), while the safety endpoints were summarised using the SAS (n=453). The population 
consisted of male and female subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus with a mean age of 
41.3 years (ranging from 18.1 to 80.9 yrs), mean duration of diabetes of 13.9 years (ranging 
from 1.0 to 51.7 years), mean HbA1c of 8.0 % and mean BMI of 23.6 kg/m2. The time point 
duration for all analyses was 26 weeks. Overall, 48.6% of the subjects were treated with IGlar 
and 36.3% of the subjects were treated with IDet pre-trial. A total of 93.4% of subjects in the 
IDeg group and 90.2% of subjects in the IDet group completed the trial. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in 
body weight analysis) as covariates. Within-subject variability (CV%) for a treatment was 
calculated from the corresponding residual variance estimated from a linear mixed model 
analysing the logarithmically transformed pre-breakfast SMPG values as repeated measures. 
The model included treatment, antidiabetic treatment at screening, sex, and region as factors, 
age as covariate, subject as random factor and assumed independent within- and between-
subject errors with variance depending on treatment. The number of hypoglycaemic episodes 
was analysed using a negative binomial regression model with a log-link function and the 
logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment 
emergent as offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age as covariate.  All analyses in this table were pre-specified in the 
protocol. 
Treatment group 
IDeg 
IDet 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % (SD) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD)  
Within-subject variability in SMPG after 
26 weeks of treatment, CV% 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 26 weeks of treatment, mean kg 
(SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 26 weeks 
of treatment, mean units (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in HbA1c (%) after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
2) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
3) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment 
4) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Within-subject variability (CV%) in 
SMPG after 26 weeks of treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 26 weeks of treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
302 
-0.73 (0.9) 
7.98 (1.0) 
7.25 (1.0) 
-2.60 (4.9) 
153 
-0.65 (0.9) 
7.99 (0.9) 
7.35 (0.9) 
-0.62 (4.5) 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
4583.1 
414.1 
4568.9 
593.5 
1.50 (2.7) 
0.42 (2.4) 
61 (36) 
69 (38) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDeg – IDet  
-0.09 
[-0.23; 0.05]† 
IDeg/IDet  
0.66  
[0.49; 0.88]* 
IDeg/IDet  
0.98  
[0.80; 1.20] 
IDeg – IDet  
-1.66 
[-2.37; -0.95]* 
IDeg/IDet  
1.02 
[0.91; 1.12] 
IDeg – IDet  
1.08 
[0.58; 1.57]* 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 97/151 
 
 
 
 
 
BID: twice daily; BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject 
unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma 
glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; IAsp: insulin aspart; IDeg: insulin degludec; IDet: insulin detemir; 
IGlar: insulin glargine;  NN1250: the name previously used for insulin degludec (IDeg); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; 
NPH: neutral protamine Hagedorn; OD: once daily; PP: per protocol; PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: safety 
analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose (pre-breakfast); †Non-inferiority 
criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.4 (%);  *: statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 98/151 
 
 
 
 
Table 12   Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3770 
Title: A 26-week, randomised, controlled, open label, multicentre, multinational, three-arm, parallel, 
treat-to-target trial comparing efficacy and safety of two different dosing regimens of NN1250 insulin degludec 
and one dosing regimen of insulin glargine, both in combination with meal-time insulin aspart in subjects with 
type 1 diabetes mellitus with a 26-week extension period investigating the long term safety of NN1250. 
Protocol number: NN1250-3770; EudraCT number: 2009-012923-27; Study identifier: 
Study 
NCT01079234.  
identifier 
This trial was a 26-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (1:1:1), three 
Design 
arm parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDeg in a flexible 
OD dosing schedule (IDeg FF) versus IGlar OD and versus IDeg OD, all in combination with 
IAsp. During the 1-week follow-up period, subjects were treated with insulin NPH + IAsp. 
Subjects eligible for the trial were subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus treated with injected-
based therapies in a basal-bolus regimen consisting of either 1 or 2 basal injections and at least 
3 bolus injections. The trial has been amended with a 26-week extension period. 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of extension phase: 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up (Trial 3770 amended, 
ongoing) 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg FF  IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or equal to 
0.4% (non-inferiority). None of the secondary endpoints were analysed as confirmatory 
endpoints. 
Insulin degludec flexible (IDeg FF) + 
insulin aspart (IAsp) 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin degludec (IDeg OD) + insulin 
aspart (IAsp) 
Insulin glargine (IGlar) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment  
A total of 164 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
administered OD according to a flexible dosing 
schedule with 8-40 h intervals between doses + 
IAsp at main meals. The total treatment duration 
of the main trial was 26 weeks.  
A total of 165 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD with the main evening meal + IAsp at 
main meals. The total treatment duration was 
26 weeks.  
A total of 164 subjects were randomised to IGlar 
dosed OD according to approved labelling + IAsp 
at main meals. The total treatment duration was 
26 weeks. 
See Hypothesis. 
Comparing the difference in change from baseline 
in HbA1c after 26 weeks of treatment between IDeg 
FF and IDeg OD. 
Comparing the change in FPG from baseline after 
26 weeks of treatment between IDeg FF and IGlar, 
and between IDeg FF and IDeg OD. 
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
was compared between IDeg FF and IGlar, and 
between IDeg FF and IDeg OD, and assessed by 
statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation. 
The number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes was compared between IDeg FF and 
IGlar, and between IDeg FF and IDeg OD, and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
Body weight change from baseline to 26 weeks was 
compared between treatment groups and assessed 
by statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
14-Dec-2011 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis and Key Supportive Secondary Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 99/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The SAS included all 
subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. All 
statistical analyses, including analyses of confirmed hypoglycaemia and nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemia were based on the FAS (n=493), while the safety endpoints were summarised 
using the SAS (n=490). The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 1 
diabetes mellitus with a mean age of 43.7 years ( ranging from 19.3 to 82.4 years), mean 
duration of diabetes of 18.5 years (ranging from 1.1 to 52.7 years), mean HbA1c of 7.7 % and 
mean BMI of 26.5 kg/m2. The time point duration for all analyses was 26 weeks. All subjects 
(except one subject in the IDeg FF group) were treated on a basal bolus insulin regimen pre-
trial. Of these, 63.7% and 27.4% of the subjects were treated pre-trial with IGlar and IDet , 
respectively. A total of 84.1% of subjects in the IDeg FF group, 84.2% of subjects in the IDeg 
OD group and 92.7% of subjects in the IGlar group completed the trial. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and relevant baseline value as covariates. The number of 
hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative binomial regression model with a log-
link function and the logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was 
considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at 
screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age as covariate. All analyses in this table were 
pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
IDeg OD 
IDeg FF 
IGlar  
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % 
(SD) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % 
(SD) 
Change from baseline in FPG 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean mmol/L (SD)  
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 
100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 
26 weeks of treatment, mean 
units (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change 
from baseline in HbA1c (%) 
after 26 weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
(%) after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG  
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mmol/L 
Secondary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Secondary endpoint:  
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
164 
-0.40 (0.6) 
165 
-0.41 (0.7) 
164 
-0.58 (0.7) 
7.69 (1.0) 
7.70 (0.9) 
7.73 (0.9) 
7.29 (0.9) 
7.29 (0.9) 
7.15 (0.8) 
-1.28 (5.0) 
-2.54 (5.1) 
-1.33 (5.2) 
8237.7 
8825.1 
7973.4 
623.2 
960.7 
995.6 
1.16 (3.5) 
0.79 (2.5) 
1.61 (3.7) 
65 (36) 
59 (41) 
70 (51) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
IDeg FF – IGlar 
0.17 
[0.04; 0.30]† 
IDeg FF – IDeg OD 
0.01 
[-0.13; 0.14] 
IDeg FF – 
IGlar 
-0.05  
[-0.85; 0.76] 
IDeg FF/ IGlar  
1.03 
[0.85; 1.26] 
IDeg FF/ IGlar  
0.60 
[0.44; 0.82]* 
IDeg FF – 
IGlar  
-0.44 
IDeg FF – 
IDeg OD 
0.95 
[0.15; 1.75] 
IDeg FF/  
IDeg OD 
0.92 
[0.76; 1.12] 
IDeg FF/  
IDeg OD 
0.63 
[0.46; 0.86]* 
IDeg FF – 
IDeg OD 
0.33 
Page 100/151 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
 
 
 
 
 
treatment 
95% CI 
[-1.14; 0.27]* 
[-0.38; 1.03] 
Secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 
26 weeks of treatment 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat 
himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FF: fixed flexible, subjects treated 
with a rotation dosing schedule; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c;  IAsp: insulin 
aspart; IDeg: insulin degludec; IGlar: insulin glargine; NN1250: the name previously used for insulin degludec 
(IDeg);  IDet: insulin detemir; Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; NPH: neutral protamine Hagedorn; OD: once daily; PP: per 
protocol; PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; †Non-inferiority criterion: 
Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.4 (%);  *: statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 101/151 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3582 
Title: A 52-week randomised, controlled, open label, multicentre, multinational treat-to-target trial comparing 
efficacy and safety of NN1250 and insulin glargine both administered once daily in a basal-bolus regimen with 
insulin aspart as mealtime insulin ± treatment with metformin, ± pioglitazone in subjects with type 2 diabetes 
currently treated with insulin qualifying for intensified treatment 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN1250-3582; EudraCT number: 2008-005777-35; Study identifier: 
NCT00972283  
This trial was a 52-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (3:1), two arm 
parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDeg OD with IGlar OD, 
all in combination with IAsp ± met ± pio. Subjects eligible for the trial were subjects with type 2 
diabetes mellitus treated with any insulin regimen (premix, self-mix, basal only, basal-bolus 
[one or more boluses], bolus only, pump) ± OAD(s). At randomisation, the subject’s current 
antidiabetic treatment was discontinued except for metformin and pioglitazone, if applicable. 
The trial was stratified according to previous insulin regimen with the categories basal-bolus 
regimen, basal insulin only, or other insulin regimen. The trial has been extended with a 26-
week extension trial. 
52 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of extension phase: 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up (Trial 3667, ongoing) 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg – IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or equal to 0.4% 
(non-inferiority).  
The trial also aimed at showing superiority of a number of confirmatory secondary endpoints 
using a hierarchical testing procedure to control the overall type I error rate: 1) Number of 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 2) Change from baseline in FPG; 3) Within-subject 
variability in SMPG; 4) HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp)  
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin Glargine (IGlar) + insulin aspart 
(IAsp)  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 52 
weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Within-subject variability 
in SMPG after 52 weeks 
of treatment 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 
52 weeks of treatment  
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
26-Nov-2010 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Total daily insulin dose 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
A total of 755 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD with the main evening meal + IAsp at 
main meals ± metformin (met) ± pioglitazone (pio) 
dosed as pre-trial. The total treatment duration 
was 52 weeks. 
A total of 251 subjects randomised to IGlar dosed 
OD according to approved labelling + IAsp at main 
meals ± metformin (met) ± pioglitazone (pio) 
dosed as pre-trial. The total treatment duration 
was 52 weeks. 
See Hypothesis.  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the estimated rate ratio 
(IDeg/IGlar) was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed if the 95% CI for the treatment 
difference (IDeg minus IGlar) was entirely below 
zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated treatment ratio (IDeg/IGlar) (CV%) 
was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDeg/IGlar) was entirely above one. 
The number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes was compared between treatment groups 
and assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
Body weight change from baseline to 52 weeks was 
a safety endpoint compared between treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as part 
of the efficacy evaluation.  
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Page 102/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The SAS included all 
subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. Analyses of 
efficacy endpoints, including analyses of hypoglycaemia and body weight, were based on the 
FAS (n=992). The safety endpoints were summarised using the SAS (n=1004).  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 58.9 years (ranging from 23.1 to 86.3 years), mean duration of diabetes of 13.5 years 
(ranging from 0.6 to 57.2 years), mean HbA1c of 8.3 % and mean BMI of 32.2 kg/m2. The time 
point duration for all analyses was 52 weeks. Pre-trial, the majority of subjects (49.0%) were 
treated on a basal-bolus insulin regimen with or without OADs, 24.4% were on a premix 
regimen with or without OADs and 21.2% were on a basal insulin regimen with or without 
OADs. The most commonly used basal insulin pre-trial was IGlar (43.0%). A total of 81.9% of 
subjects in the IDeg group and 84.1% of subjects in the IGlar group completed the trial. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in 
body weight analysis) as covariates. The analysis of the number of subjects reaching HbA1c 
<7.0% was based on a logistic regression model using the same factors and covariates as for 
the analysis of the primary endpoint. The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed 
using a negative binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the 
time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. 
The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed 
factors, and age as covariate. All of the analyses included in this table were pre-specified in the 
protocol. 
Treatment group 
IGlar 
IDeg 
Number of subject 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 52, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean mmol/L (SD)  
Within-subject variability in SMPG after 52 weeks 
of treatment, CV%  
Observed rate of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes, per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body weight after 52 
weeks of treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean units (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change from baseline in HbA1c 
(%) after 52 weeks of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
2) Confirmatory secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in FPG after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
3) Confirmatory secondary endpoint:  
Within-subject variability in SMPG (CV%) 
4) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: HbA1c 
<7.0% at end of trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body weight after 52 
744 
-1.17 (1.0) 
8.27 (0.8) 
7.10 (1.0) 
171 (24.4) 
248 
-1.29 (1.0) 
8.36 (0.9) 
7.07 (1.0) 
55 (23.2) 
-2.44 (3.5) 
-2.14 (3.6) 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
1108.9 
138.7 
1363.4 
184.4 
3.61 (4.9) 
3.97 (4.6) 
143.1 (94.7) 
139.0 (98.1) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
IDeg – IGlar 
0.08 
[-0.05; 0.21]† 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.82 
[0.69; 0.99]* 
IDeg – IGlar 
-0.29  
[-0.65; 0.06] 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.94 
[0.87; 1.01] 
IDeg/IGlar 
1.02 
[0.72; 147] 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.75 
[0.58; 0.99]* 
IDeg – IGlar 
-0.31 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 103/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
weeks of treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
[-0.98; 0.37] 
95% CI 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat 
himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c 
<7.0%: endpoint was only defined for subjects exposed for at least 12 weeks; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; 
IAsp: insulin aspart; IDeg: insulin degludec; IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; NN1250: the name previously 
used for insulin degludec (IDeg); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; pio: 
pioglitazone; PP: per protocol; PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; 
SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose (pre-breakfast); †Non-inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference 
less than or equal to 0.4 (%);  *: statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 104/151 
 
 
 
 
 Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3579 
Title: A 52-week randomised, controlled, open label, multicentre, multinational treat-to-target trial comparing 
the efficacy and safety of NN1250 and insulin glargine, both injected daily in combination with oral anti-diabetic 
drugs (OADs), in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus currently treated with OADs and qualifying more 
intensified treatment (BEGIN™: Once Long) 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN1250-3579; EudraCT number: 2008-005776-27; Study identifier: 
NCT00982644.  
This trial was a 52-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (3:1), two arm 
parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDeg OD with IGlar OD, 
all + met ± DPP-4I. During the 1-week follow-up period, subjects were treated with insulin NPH 
and continued OAD treatment. Subjects eligible for the trial were insulin-naïve subjects with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus currently treated with OAD(s) qualifying for intensified treatment. At 
randomisation, the subject’s current antidiabetic treatment was discontinued except for 
metformin and DPP-4 inhibitor (if applicable according to approved labelling). The trial has been 
extended with a 52-week extension trial. 
Duration of main phase: 
52 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
52 weeks + 1 week follow-up (Trial 3643, ongoing) 
Duration of extension phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg  IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or equal to 0.4% 
(non-inferiority).  
The trial also aimed at showing superiority of a number of confirmatory secondary endpoints 
using a hierarchical testing procedure to control the overall type I error rate: 1) Number of 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 2) Change from baseline in FPG; 3) Within-subject variation 
in SMPG; 4) HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg)  
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin glargine (IGlar)  
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Within subject variability 
in SMPG after 52 weeks 
of treatment 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
17-Jan-2011 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
A total of 773 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD with the main evening meal + metformin 
(met) ± dipeptidyl-peptidase 4-inhibitor (DPP-4I) 
dosed as pre-trial. The total treatment duration 
was 52 weeks. 
A total of 257 subjects randomised to IGlar dosed 
OD according to approved labelling + metformin 
(met) ± dipeptidyl-peptidase 4-inhibitor (DPP-4I) 
dosed as pre-trial. The total treatment duration 
was 52 weeks.  
See Hypothesis.  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the estimated rate ratio 
(IDeg/IGlar) was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment difference (IDeg minus IGlar) was 
entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated treatment ratio (IDeg/IGlar) (CV%) 
was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was to be considered confirmed for this endpoint if 
the 95% CI for the odds ratio (IDeg/IGlar) was 
entirely above one. 
Comparing the number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes between the treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as part 
of the efficacy evaluation. 
Body weight change from baseline to 52 weeks was 
compared between treatment groups and assessed 
by statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Page 105/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The safety endpoints 
were summarised using the SAS (n=1023). The SAS included all subjects receiving at least one 
dose of the investigational product or its comparator. Analyses of efficacy endpoints, including 
analyses of body weight and hypoglycaemia, were based on the FAS  (n=1030). 
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 59.1 years (ranging from 21.9 to 87.0 years), mean duration of diabetes of 9.2 years 
(ranging from 0.5 to 44.4 years), mean HbA1c of 8.2 % and mean BMI of 31.1 kg/m2. The time 
point duration for all analyses was 52 weeks. The majority of subjects in both treatment groups 
were insulin-naïve at screening, with 60.1% of subjects on two OADs and 29.2% on one OAD 
pre-trial. A total of 78.5% of subjects in the IDeg group and 76.7% of subjects in the IGlar 
group completed the trial. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG, and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using 
an analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex 
and region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in 
body weight analysis) as covariates. The analysis of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% was based 
on a logistic regression model using the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of the 
primary endpoint. Within-subject variability (CV%) for a treatment was calculated from the 
corresponding residual variance estimated from a linear mixed model analysing the 
logarithmically transformed prebreakfast SMPG values as repeated measures. The model 
included treatment, antidiabetic treatment at screening, sex, and region as factors, age as 
covariate, subject as random factor and assumed independent within- and between-subject 
errors with variance depending on treatment.The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was 
analysed using a negative binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm 
of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as 
offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed 
factors, and age as covariate. All analyses described in this table were pre-specified in the 
protocol. 
Treatment group 
IGlar  
IDeg  
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 52 weeks of treatment, 
mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 52, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c <7.0% without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
52 weeks of treatment, 
mean mmol/L (SD)  
Within-subject variability in SMPG 
after 52 weeks of treatment, CV%  
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 
PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 
52 weeks of treatment, mean units 
(SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in HbA1c (%) after 
52 weeks of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
2) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Change from baseline in 
FPG  after 52 weeks of treatment 
3) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Within-subject variability 
773 
-1.06 (1.0) 
257 
-1.19 (1.0) 
8.16 (0.8) 
7.10 (1.0) 
296 (42.1) 
8.21 (0.8) 
7.03 (1.0) 
106 (45.7) 
-3.76 (3.0) 
-3.30 (2.9) 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
152.0 
184.9 
25.3 
38.5 
2.33 (4.3) 
2.12 (4.1) 
56.0 (38.7) 
57.8 (34.1) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment ratio 
IDeg – IGlar 
0.09 
[-0.04; 0.22]† 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.82 
[0.64; 1.04] 
IDeg – IGlar 
-0.43  
[-0.74; -0.13]* 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.99 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 106/151 
 
 
 
 
 
in SMPG (CV%) after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
4) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 52 
weeks of treatment 
95% CI 
[0.92; 1.06] 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.86 
[0.63; 1.17] 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.64 
[0.42; 0.98]* 
IDeg – IGlar 
0.28 
[-0.32; 0.88] 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat 
himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; DDP-4I: dipeptidyl-peptidase 4-inhibitor; FAS: full analysis 
set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c <7.0%: endpoint was only defined for subjects exposed for at least 
12 weeks; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; IDeg: insulin degludec; IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; 
NN1250: the name previously used for insulin degludec (IDeg); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; NPH: neutral protamine 
Hagedorn; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; PP: per protocol; PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: 
safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose (pre-breakfast); †Non-inferiority 
criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.4 (%);  *: statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 107/151 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3672 
Title: BEGIN™: LOW VOLUME. A trial comparing efficacy and safety of NN1250 and insulin glargine in subjects 
with type 2 diabetes 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN1250-3672; EudraCT number: 2009-010662-28; Study identifier: 
NCT01068665.  
This trial was a 26-week multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (1:1), two arm 
parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing efficacy and safety of IDeg 200 U/mL OD with 
IGlar OD, all + met ±DPP-4I. During the 1-week follow-up period, the subjects were treated 
with insulin NPH and continued OAD treatment. Subjects eligible for the trial were insulin-naïve 
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus currently treated with OADs who qualified for intensified 
treatment. At randomisation, the subject’s current antidiabetic treatment was discontinued 
except for metformin and DPP-4 inhibitor (if applicable according to approved labelling). 
Duration of main phase  
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg  IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or equal to 0.4% 
(non-inferiority).  
The trial also aimed at showing superiority of a number of confirmatory secondary endpoints 
using a hierarchical testing procedure to control the overall type I error rate: 1) Number of 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 2) Change from baseline in FPG; 3) Within-subject 
variability in SMPG; 4) HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg)  
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up  
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin glargine (IGlar)  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint  
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
21-Dec-2010 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Within-subject variability 
in SMPG after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
A total of 230 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD with the main evening meal + metformin 
(met) ± dipeptidyl-peptidase 4-inhibitor (DPP-4I) 
dosed as pre-trial. The total treatment duration 
was 26 weeks. 
A total of 230 subjects were randomised to IGlar 
dosed OD according to approved labelling + 
metformin (met) ± dipeptidyl-peptidase 4-inhibitor 
(DPP-4I) dosed as pre-trial. The total treatment 
duration was 26 weeks. 
See Hypothesis.  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the estimated rate ratio 
(IDeg/IGlar) was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment difference (IDeg minus IGlar) was 
entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated treatment ratio (IDeg/IGlar) (CV%) 
was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDeg/IGlar) was entirely above one. 
The number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes was compared between treatment groups 
and assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
Body weight change from baseline to 26 weeks was 
a safety endpoint compared between treatment 
groups and evaluated by statistical analysis.  
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 108/151 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The SAS included all 
subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. Analyses of 
all efficacy endpoints were based on the FAS (n=457) as were analyses of hypoglycaemia and 
body weight. All other endpoints related to safety were based on the SAS (n=456).  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 57.5 years (ranging from 31.0 to 78.0 years), mean duration of diabetes of 8.2 years 
(ranging from 0.5 to 59.7 years), mean HbA1c of 8.3 % and mean BMI of 32.4 kg/m2. The time 
point duration for all analyses was 26 weeks. The majority of subjects (60.0%) were on two 
OADs at screening and 28.9% were on one OAD at screening. A total of 87.0% of subjects in 
the IDeg group and 87.4% of subjects in the IGlar group completed the trial. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in 
body weight analysis) as covariates. The analysis of the number of subjects reaching 
HbA1c <7.0% was based on a logistic regression model using the same factors and covariates as 
for the analysis of the primary endpoint. Within-subject variability (CV%) for a treatment was 
calculated from the corresponding residual variance estimated from a linear mixed model 
analysing the logarithmically transformed prebreakfast SMPG values as repeated measures. The 
model included treatment, antidiabetic treatment at screening, sex, and region as factors, age 
as covariate, subject as random factor and assumed independent within- and between-subject 
errors with variance depending on treatment.The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was 
analysed using a negative binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm 
of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment-emergent as 
offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed 
factors, and age as covariate. All analyses described in this table were pre-specified in the 
protocol. 
Treatment group 
IGlar 
IDeg 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial 
without confirmed hypoglycaemia, 
N (%) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment, 
mean,(SD), mmol/L 
Within-subject variability in SMPG 
after 26 weeks of treatment, CV% 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 
PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 
26 weeks of treatment, mean units 
(SD) 
Primary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in HbA1c (%) 
after 26 weeks of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
2) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Change from baseline in 
FPG after 26 weeks of treatment 
3)Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Within-subject variability 
in SMPG (CV%) after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
4) Confirmatory secondary 
228 
-1.30 (1.0) 
229 
-1.32 (1.0) 
8.29 (1.0) 
6.99 (0.9) 
95 (45.2) 
8.24 (0.9) 
6.93 (1.0) 
96 (44.7) 
-3.70 (3.1) 
-3.38 (3.0) 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
122.1 
142.1 
18.0 
28.1 
1.87 (3.5) 
1.47 (3.5) 
59.5 (35.2) 
62.7 (31.7) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment ratio 
95% CI 
IDeg – IGlar  
0.04 
[-0.11; 0.19]† 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.86  
[0.58; 1.28] 
IDeg – IGlar 
-0.42 
[-0.78; -0.06]* 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.92 
[0.84; 1.01] 
Comparison groups 
IDeg/IGlar 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 109/151 
 
 
 
 
endpoint: HbA1c < 7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia 
Supportive secondary endpoint: 
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint: 
Total daily insulin dose after 26 
weeks of treatment  
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
1.05 
[0.69;1.61] 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.64 
[0.30; 1.37] 
IDeg – IGlar 
Treatment contrast 
0.44 
95% CI 
[-0.20; 1.08] 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat 
himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; DDP-4I: dipeptidyl-peptidase 4-inhibitor; FAS: full analysis 
set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c <7.0%: endpoint was only defined for subjects exposed for at least 
12 weeks; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; IDeg: insulin degludec; IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; 
NN1250: the name previously used for insulin degludec (IDeg); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; NPH: neutral protamine 
Hagedorn; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; PP: per protocol; PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: 
safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose (pre-breakfast); †Non-inferiority 
criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.4 (%);  *: statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 110/151 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3586 
Title: A 26-week randomised, confirmatory, controlled, open label, multicentre, multinational treat-to-target trial 
comparing the efficacy and safety of NN1250 and insulin glargine, both injected once daily as add on to current 
OAD treatment in insulin naïve subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus qualifying for more intensified treatment 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN1250-3586; EudraCT number: not applicable; Study identifier: 
NCT01059799.  
This was a 26-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (2:1), two arm 
parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDeg OD with IGlar OD, 
all ± met ± SU/glin ± α-GI. During the 1-week follow-up period, the subjects were treated with 
insulin NPH and continued OAD treatment. Subjects eligible for the trial were insulin-naïve 
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus currently treated with OAD(s) qualifying for intensified 
treatment. At randomisation, the subject’s current antidiabetic treatment was continued except 
for DPP-4 inhibitor. 
Duration of main phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg – IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or equal to 0.4% 
(non-inferiority).  
The trial also aimed at showing superiority of a number of confirmatory secondary endpoints 
using a hierarchical testing procedure to control the overall type I error rate: 1) Number of 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 2) Number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes; 
3) Change from baseline in FPG; 4) Within-subject variability in SMPG; 5) HbA1c <7.0% at end 
of trial without confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg)  
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Insulin glargine (IGlar)  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Within-subject variability 
in SMPG after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
4) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
5) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
17-Jan-2011 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
A total of 289 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD in the evening (from start of main 
evening meal to bedtime) ± metformin (met) ± 
sulphonylurea (SU)/glinides (glin) ± alpha-
glucosidase inhibitor (α-GI) dosed as pre-trial. The 
total treatment duration was 26 weeks. 
A total of 146 subjects randomised to IGlar dosed 
OD according to approved labelling ± metformin 
(met) ± sulphonylurea (SU)/glinides (glin) ± 
alpha-glucosidase inhibitor (α-GI) dosed as pre-
trial. The total treatment duration was 26 weeks. 
See Hypothesis.  
If non-inferiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the estimated rate ratio 
(IDeg/IGlar) was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated rate ratio (IDeg/IGlar) was entirely 
below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the treatment difference (IDeg minus IGlar) was 
entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the estimated treatment ratio (IDeg/IGlar) (CV%) 
was entirely below one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDeg/IGlar) was entirely above one. 
Body weight change from baseline to 26 weeks was 
compared between treatment groups and assessed 
by statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Page 111/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
Methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The SAS included all 
subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. Analyses of 
all efficacy endpoints were based on the FAS (n=435), including the analyses of hypoglycaemia 
and body weight. All other endpoints related to safety were based on the SAS (n=430).  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 58.6 years (ranging from 20.0 to 83.1 years), mean duration of diabetes of 11.6 years 
(ranging from 0.5 to 38.7 years), mean HbA1c of 8.5% and mean BMI of 25.0 kg/m2. The 
majority of subjects (65.5%) were on two OADs at screening and 22.3% were on more than 
two OADs. A total of 89.3% of subjects in the IDeg group and 93.2% of subjects in the IGlar 
completed the trial. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in 
body weight analysis) as covariates. The analysis of the number of subjects reaching HbA1c 
<7.0% was based on a logistic regression model using the same factors and covariates as for 
the analysis of the primary endpoint. Within-subject variability (CV%) for a treatment was 
calculated from the corresponding residual variance estimated from a linear mixed model 
analysing the logarithmically transformed prebreakfast SMPG values as repeated measures. The 
model included treatment, antidiabetic treatment at screening, sex, and region as factors, age 
as covariate, subject as random factor and assumed independent within- and between-subject 
errors with variance depending on treatment.The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was 
analysed using a negative binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm 
of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as 
offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed 
factors, and age as covariate. All analyses in this table were pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
IGlar   
IDeg  
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial 
without confirmed hypoglycaemia, 
N (%) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment, mean 
mmol/L (SD) 
Within-subject variability in SMPG 
after 52 weeks of treatment, CV%  
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 
PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 
26 weeks of treatment mean units 
(SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in HbA1c (%) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
2) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Number of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
3) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Change from baseline in 
FPG after 26 weeks of treatment 
4) Confirmatory secondary 
289 
-1.24 (0.9) 
146 
-1.35 (0.9) 
8.45 (0.8) 
7.21 (0.7) 
78 (29.1) 
8.46 (0.8) 
7.10 (0.8) 
45 (31.5) 
-2.88 (2.5) 
-2.97 (2.3) 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
297.6 
369.9 
78.0 
123.8 
1.29 (2.2) 
1.41 (2.2) 
19.0 (13.3) 
24.2 (16.8) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
IDeg – IGlar 
0.11 
[-0.03; 0.24]† 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.82 
[0.60; 1.11] 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.62 
[0.38; 1.04] 
IDeg – IGlar 
-0.09 
[-0.41; 0.23] 
IDeg/IGlar  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 112/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
endpoint: Within-subject variability 
in SMPG (CV%) after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
5) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment  
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Treatment ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
0.89 
[0.80; 0.99] 
IDeg/IGlar 
0.89  
[0.56; 1.42] 
IDeg – IGlar 
-0.17 
[-0.59; 0.26] 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
α-GI: alpha-glucosidase inhibitor; BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes: the subject unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; DDP-4: dipeptidyl-
peptidase 4; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; glin: glinides; HbA1c <7.0%: endpoint was only 
defined for subjects exposed for at least 12 weeks; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; IDeg: insulin degludec; 
IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; NN1250: the name previously used for insulin degludec (IDeg); Nocturnal: 
00:01-05:59; NPH: neutral protamine Hagedorn; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; PP: per protocol; PYE: 
patient years of exposure; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose 
(pre-breakfast); SU: sulphonylurea; †Non-inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal 
to 0.4 (%);  *: statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 113/151 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3580 
Title: A 26-week randomised, controlled, open label, multicentre, multinational trial comparing efficacy and 
safety of NN1250 with sitagliptin as add on to current oral antidiabetic treatment in insulin-naïve subjects with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled with 1-2 oral antidiabetic drugs (metformin, sulphonylurea, 
glinides or pioglitazone) 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN1250-3580; EudraCT number: 2008-005770-12; Study identifier: 
NCT01046110.  
This trial was a 26-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (1:1), two arm 
parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of IDeg OD with 
sitagliptin, all ± met ± SU/glin ± pio. Subjects eligible for the trial were insulin-naïve subjects 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus currently treated with 1-2 OAD(s) qualifying for intensified 
treatment.  
The trial was stratified according to the use of pioglitazone at screening. 
Duration of main phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg  sitagliptin) for the mean change in HbA1c was below 0% 
(superiority).  
The trial also aimed at showing superiority of a number of confirmatory secondary endpoints 
using a hierarchical testing procedure to control the overall type I error rate: 1) Change from 
baseline in FPG; 2) HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial; 3) HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg)  
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
A total of 229 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD ± metformin (met) ± sulphonylurea 
(SU)/glinides (glin) ± pioglitazone (pio) (pre-trial 
regimen and dose). IDeg could be administed at 
any time of day with the option to change injection 
time from day-to-day. The total treatment duration 
was 26 weeks. 
A total of 229 subjects randomised to sitagliptin 
dosed OD orally ± metformin (met) ± 
sulphonylurea (SU)/glinides (glin) ± pioglitazone 
(pio) (pre-trial regimen and dose). The total 
treatment duration was 26 weeks.  
See Hypothesis.  
If superiority was confirmed for the primary 
endpoint, then superiority was confirmed for this 
endpoint if the 95% CI for the treatment difference 
(IDeg minus sitagliptin) was entirely below zero. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDeg/sitagliptin) was entirely above 
one. 
If superiority was confirmed for the previous 
confirmatory secondary endpoint, then superiority 
was confirmed for this endpoint if the 95% CI for 
the odds ratio (IDeg/sitagliptin) was entirely above 
one. 
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
was compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
The number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes was compared between treatment groups 
and assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
Body weight change from baseline to 26 weeks was 
compared between treatment groups and assessed 
by statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation. 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Sitagliptin  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
1) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
3) 
Confirmatory 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
01-Dec-2010 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Change from baseline in 
FPG (central lab-
measured) after 
26 weeks of treatment  
HbA1c<7.0% at end of 
trial 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of 
trial without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis, Confirmatory Secondary Analyses and Key Supportive Secondary 
Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 114/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The SAS included all 
subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. Analyses of 
efficacy endpoints including analyses of hypoglycaemia and body weight, were based on the 
FAS (n=447), while the safety endpoints were summarised using the SAS (n=454).  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 55.7 years (ranging from 22.0 to 84.4 years), mean duration of diabetes of 7.7 years 
(ranging from 0.5 to 34.0 years), mean HbA1c of 8.9 % and mean BMI of 30.4 kg/m2. The time 
point duration for all analyses was 26 weeks. The majority of subjects (67.6%) were on two 
OADs pre-trial and 32.0% were on one OAD. A total of 76.0% of subjects completed the trial in 
both the treatment groups. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and baseline HbA1c (FPG in FPG analysis and body weight in 
body weight analysis) as covariates. The analysis of subjects reaching HbA1c <7.0% was based 
on a logistic regression model using the same factors and covariates as for the analysis of the 
primary endpoint. The number of hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative 
binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period in which 
a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included 
treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, sex and region as fixed factors, and age as 
covariate. All analyses in this table were pre-specified in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
Sitagliptin 
IDeg 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial, N (%) 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without 
confirmed hypoglycaemia, N (%) 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD) 
Observed rate of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes, per 100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body weight after 
26 weeks of treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean units (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%) after 26 weeks of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG after 
26 weeks of treatment 
2) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial 
3) Confirmatory secondary endpoint: 
HbA1c <7.0% at end of trial without 
confirmed hypoglycaemia 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body weight after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Supportive secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
225 
-1.56 (1.1) 
8.77 (1.0) 
7.21 (1.0) 
92 (40.9) 
49 (24.9) 
222 
-1.22 (1.2) 
8.97 (1.0) 
7.74 (1.2) 
62 (27.9) 
43 (22.9) 
-3.22 (3.2) 
-1.39 (3.1) 
307.0 
52.3 
126.1 
29.7 
2.28 (4.4) 
-0.35 (3.9) 
42.7 (27.7) 
NA 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDeg – Sitagliptin 
-0.43 
[-0.61; -0.24]† 
IDeg – Sitagliptin 
-2.17 
[-2.59; -1.74]* 
IDeg/Sitagliptin 
1.60 
[1.04; 2.47]* 
IDeg/Sitagliptin 
0.92 
[0.55; 1.53] 
IDeg /Sitagliptin 
3.81 
[2.40; 6.05]* 
IDeg/Sitagliptin 
1.93 
[0.90; 4.10] 
IDeg – Sitagliptin 
2.75 
[1.97; 3.54]* 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 115/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat 
himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; glin: 
glinides; HbA1c <7.0%: endpoint was only defined for subjects exposed for at least 12 weeks; HbA1c: glycosylated 
haemoglobin A1c; IDeg: insulin degludec; met: metformin; NN1250: the name previously used for insulin degludec 
(IDeg); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: once daily; pio: pioglitazone; PP: per protocol; 
PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SU: sulphonylurea; †Superiority 
criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or equal to 0.0 (%);  *= statistically significant 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 116/151 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for Trial 3668 
Title: A 26-week randomised, controlled, open-label, multicentre, multinational, three-arm, treat-to-target trial 
comparing efficacy and safety of three different dosing regimens of either NN1250 or insulin glargine with or 
without combination with OAD treatment, in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Protocol number: NN1250-3668; EudraCT number: 2008-005771-10; Study identifier: 
NCT01006291  
This was a 26-week, multicentre, multinational, open-labelled, randomised (1:1:1), three arm 
parallel-group, treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of insulin IDeg in a flexible 
OD dosing schedule versus IGlar OD and versus IDeg OD, all ± met ± SU/glin ± pio. During the 
1-week follow-up period, the subjects were treated with insulin NPH and continued OAD 
treatment. Subjects eligible for the trial were subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with 
OADs alone, OADs in combination with basal insulin or with basal insulin alone, but qualifying for 
intensified treatment. The trial was stratified according to treatment prior to randomisation. 
Duration of main phase: 
Efficacy was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI for the estimated 
treatment difference (IDeg FF – IGlar) for the mean change in HbA1c was below or equal to 0.4% 
(non-inferiority). None of the secondary endpoints were analysed as confirmatory endpoints. 
A total of 229 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
Insulin degludec flexible (IDeg FF)  
administered OD according to a flexible dosing 
schedule with 8-40 h intervals between doses + 
pre-trial (if any) OAD treatment regimen and dose 
( ± metformin (met) ± sulphonylureas (SU)/ 
glinides (glin) ± pioglitazone (pio)). The total 
treatment duration was 26 weeks. 
A total of 228 subjects were randomised to IDeg 
dosed OD with the evening meal + pre-trial (if any) 
OAD treatment regimen and dose ( ± metformin 
(met) ± sulphonylureas (SU)/ glinides (glin) ± 
pioglitazone (pio)). The total treatment duration was 
26 weeks. 
A total of 230 subjects were randomised to IGlar 
dosed OD according to approved labelling + pre-trial 
(if any) OAD treatment regimen and dose ( ± 
metformin (met) ± sulphonylureas (SU)/ glinides 
(glin) ± pioglitazone (pio)). The total treatment 
duration was 26 weeks. 
See Hypothesis. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg OD)  
Insulin glargine (IGlar)  
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Change in FPG (central 
lab-measured) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Number of nocturnal 
confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Comparing the difference in change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 26 weeks of treatment between IDeg FF 
and IDeg OD. 
Comparing the change in FPG from baseline to end 
of treatment between IDeg FF and IGlar, and 
between IDeg FF and IDeg OD.  
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
was compared between IDeg FF and IGlar, and 
between IDeg FF and IDeg OD, and assessed by 
statistical analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
The number of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes was compared between IDeg FF and IGlar, 
and between IDeg FF and IDeg OD, and assessed by 
statistical analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation.  
Body weight change from baseline to 26 weeks was 
compared between treatment groups and assessed 
by statistical analysis as part of the efficacy 
evaluation 
The total daily insulin dose was a safety endpoint 
summarised descriptively and compared between 
treatment groups as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
07-Oct-2010 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis and Key Supportive Secondary Endpoints 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 117/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population and 
time point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate 
per 
comparison 
The FAS included all randomised subjects. The PP analysis set included subjects without any 
major protocol violations that may have affected the primary endpoint. The SAS included all 
subjects receiving at least one dose of the investigational product or its comparator. All statistical 
analyses, including analyses of hypoglycaemia and bodyweight, were based on the FAS (n=687), 
while the safety endpoints were summarised using the SAS (n=685).  
The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus with a mean 
age of 56.4 years (ranging from 22.9 to 80.9 years), mean duration of diabetes of 10.6 years 
(ranging from 0.5 to 40.6 years), mean HbA1c of 8.4 % and mean BMI of 29.6 kg/m2. The time 
point duration for all analyses was 26 weeks. Approximately 58% of subjects in each treatment 
group were only treated with OADs pre-trial and 39% of subjects in each treatment group were 
treated with basal insulin plus OADs. A total of 88.6% of subjects in the IDeg FF group, 89.5% of 
subjects in the IDeg OD group and 88.3% of subjects in the IGlar group completed the trial. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c, FPG and body weight at end of treatment was analysed using an 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment, anti-diabetic therapy at screening, sex and 
region as fixed factors, and age and relevant baseline value as covariates. The number of 
hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative binomial regression model with a log-link 
function and the logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered 
treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, antidiabetic therapy at screening, 
sex and region as fixed factors, and age as covariate. All analyses in this table were pre-specified 
in the protocol. 
Treatment group 
IDeg OD 
IDeg FF 
IGlar 
Number of subjects 
Change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean % (SD) 
8.50 (1.0) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % (SD)  7.22 (0.9) 
229 
-1.28 (1.0) 
228 
-1.07 (1.0) 
230 
-1.26 (1.1) 
8.38 (0.9) 
7.31 (1.0) 
8.41 (0.9) 
7.15 (0.9) 
Change from baseline in FPG 
after 26 weeks of treatment, 
mean mmol/L (SD)  
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, per 
100 PYE 
Observed rate of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes, per 100 PYE 
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean kg (SD) 
Total daily insulin dose after 
26 weeks of treatment, mean 
units (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in HbA1c (%) after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint: Change 
from baseline in HbA1c (%) after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in FPG 
after 26 weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Secondary endpoint:  
Number of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
Secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in body 
weight after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Secondary endpoint:  
Total daily insulin dose after 26 
weeks of treatment 
-3.15 (2.9) 
-2.91 (3.0) 
-2.78 (3.1) 
364.3 
362.6 
348.4 
62.9 
55.6 
74.8 
1.51 (3.0) 
1.56 (2.8) 
1.27 (2.8) 
46.4 (32.3) 
44.6 (30.6)  44.5 (25.9) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
IDeg FF – IGlar 
0.04 
[-0.12; 0.20]† 
IDeg FF – IDeg OD 
-0.13 
[-0.29; 0.03] 
IDeg FF – IGlar 
-0.42  
[-0.82; -0.02]* 
IDeg FF/ IGlar 
1.03 
[0.75; 1.40] 
IDeg FF/ IGlar 
0.77 
[0.44; 1.35] 
IDeg FF – IGlar 
IDeg FF – 
IDeg OD 
-0.05 
[-0.45; 0.35] 
IDeg FF/ 
IDeg OD 
1.10 
0.79; 1.52] 
IDeg FF/ 
IDeg OD 
1.18 
[0.66; 2.12] 
IDeg FF – 
IDeg OD 
0.00 
[-0.53; 0.52] 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
No statistical analysis was performed. 
0.27 
[-0.25; 0.79] 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 118/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat 
himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; FAS: full analysis set; FF: fixed flexible, subjects treated 
with a rotation dosing schedule; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; glin: glinides; HbA1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c;  
IDeg: insulin degludec; IGlar: insulin glargine; met: metformin; NN1250: the name previously used for insulin 
degludec (IDeg); Nocturnal: 00:01-05:59; NPH: neutral protamine Hagedorn; OAD: oral antidiabetic drug; OD: 
once daily; pio: pioglitazone; PP: per protocol; PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: 
standard deviation;  SU: sulphonylurea; †Non-inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference less than or 
equal to 0.4 (%); *: statistically significant 
Supportive studies 
Two exploratory trials were submitted with this application, NN54011791 and NN5401-1792. Both 
were 16-week randomised, open-labelled, 3-armed, parallel group, treat-to-target trials. Trial 1791 
compared once daily injection of IDegAsp, IDegAsp 45 and insulin glargine, all in combination with 
metformin in subjects with type 2 diabetes failing on OAD treatment, whereas trial 1792 compared 
IDegAsp, IDegAsp 45 and NovoMix30 (BIAsp 30) taken twice daily. Both trials included insulin-naïve 
patients with T2DM. 
Since the development of IDegAsp 45 has been discontinued, the data concerning this formulation will 
not be further discussed. 
OD treatment with IDegAsp or IGlar, combined with metformin (trial 1791), lead to similar glycaemic 
control, as determined by HbA1c, after 16 weeks of treatment in subjects with T2DM. FPG decrease to 
a similar level in both treatment groups. Subjects treated with IDegAsp experienced fewer nocturnal 
hypoglycaemic episodes compared to IGlar. No unexpected safety issues were identified with IDegAsp 
OD. 
Trial 1792 showed that twice daily treatment with IDegAsp and BIAsp 30, both combined with 
metformin, lead to similar glycaemic control, as determined by HbA1c, after 16 weeks of treatment in 
subjects with T2DM, inadequately controlled on OADs. FPG was approximately 1.0 mmol/L (18 mg/dL) 
lower in IDegAsp group than in BIAsp 30 group after 16 weeks of treatment. Subjects treated with 
IDegAsp experienced a lower rate of nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes as well as hypoglycaemic 
episodes compared to subjects treated with BIAsp 30. 
Thus, the data from the exploratory trials were in line with the outcome of the confirmatory trials. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The efficacy of IDegAsp has been investigated in five confirmatory studies, one in T1DM patients and 
four in T2DM patients. The T1DM trial included 548 subjects and 1866 subjects were included in the 
T2DM trials. All trials were of 26 weeks duration and the T1DM trial had a 26 week extension. Data on 
flexible dosing based on clinical studies with the basal component IDeg has also been provided. In 
addition two supportive exploratory trials have been submitted. 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria were considered adequate and ensured enrolling a representative 
population of T1DM and T2DM subjects. Exclusion criteria included among others treatment with GLP-1 
analogues, cardiovascular disease within the last 6 months (e.g. stroke, HF NYHA III-IV, MI) 
uncontrolled severe hypertension, impaired renal and hepatic function, cancer, and recurrent severe 
hypoglycaemia. The T2DM trials allowed all OAD background therapies with the exception of insulin 
secretagogues, α-glucosidase inhibitors or GLP-1 agonists. It is a weakness that metformin was not a 
requirement in all T2DM trial, being the cornerstone in antidiabetic treatment of T2DM patients. As 
insulin secretagogues were to be discontinued, there is no data on the combination of metformin and 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 119/151 
 
 
 
 
insulin secretagogues. However, since the combination of prandial insulin and insulin secretagogues is 
not recommended by the recognized clinical treatment guidelines, this is acceptable.  
In the T2DM trials, OADs not allowed were discontinued. The trials did not have a run-in phase and an 
adequate baseline evaluation is thus not ensured after discontinuation of OADs. However, since the 
duration of action of 18 to 72 hours of sulfonylureas is short relative to the 26-week duration of the 
therapeutic confirmatory trials, the absence of a washout period is not considered to impact the overall 
evaluation of the trials. Approximately 45% of subjects were treated with sulphonylureas (SU)/glinides 
pre-trial, overall but percentages were as high as 90.5% in trial 3590 for SU.  
All trials were performed with active comparator and the choice of comparators (IDet in the T1DM trial, 
IGlar in the T2DM OD trials and BIAsp in the T2DM BID trials) was adequate and in line with the advice 
given in T2DM trials. 
 All trials were designed as non-inferiority, treat-to-target trials and insulin doses were titrated 
according to predefined titration algorithms. During the Scientific Advice procedure it was 
recommended to reconsider and strengthen the FPG criterion with respect to withdrawal. An adequate 
justification for the criterion applied has been provided. 
The chosen primary and secondary outcomes are acceptable and in line with the given advice. The 
occurrence of hypoglycaemia was included as an efficacy endpoint. In the program, hypoglycaemia 
was clearly defined applying a cut-off of 3.1 mmol/l glucose which is in line with the adopted CHMP 
guideline. However, data was also collected applying the more conservative cut-off of 3.9 mmol/l 
glucose. The occurrence of insulin antibodies was also studied and is discussed in the safety section of 
this report. 
The choice of the confirmatory endpoints and the choice of their hierarchy was elaborated on by the 
applicant. In the T1DM trial the 1st confirmatory endpoint is change in FPG, the second is HBA1c<7% 
without severe hypoglycaemic episodes and the 3rd is number of nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Although regarding the 2nd confirmatory endpoint it would have to be expected that severe 
hypoglycaemia is a very rare event which is not suitable to discriminate two treatments from each 
other, this was the only possibility to discriminate treatments, as confirmed hypoglycaemia occurs in 
almost all patients. 
In studies 3590 and 3593 "prandial PG increment at main evening meal" was chosen as 1st 
confirmatory endpoint. The CHMP considered that the relevance of this endpoint was debatable. In 
these two trials the choice of the treatment groups was not fully appropriate as the IDegAsp treatment 
arm had a bolus insulin component in their treatment in contrast to the IGlar treatment arm which had 
basal insulin only; therefore it is clear that the IDegAsp group must be expected to be favoured for this 
endpoint (IDegAsp was administered once daily with dinner (evening meal) or the largest meal).  
The studies were generally well conducted. Due to the difference in appearance of IDegAsp, IDet, 
BIAsp 30 and IGlar and the fact that a double-dummy design was considered neither safe not feasible, 
an open design was chosen. This justification is acceptable. During the study period, it turned out that 
a defective lot of glucose strips had been used. Due to the low risk of experiencing too low readings, 
the data outcome and quality of the trials was not affected. Further to this, one site participating in the 
study program in support of the basal component IDeg was closed due to data quality issues. 
Adequate actions were taken with regards to handling of data from this site. 
Thus, the clinical study program is considered adequate both with regards to study size, duration and 
design.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 120/151 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Across the study program, the treatment groups were generally well balanced with regards to 
demographic and diabetes characteristics with only minor differences in age as well as sex distribution 
observed in the T1DM population. European patient were well represented (about 30 % of patients) 
both in the T1DM trial and the T2DM trials. Thus the populations recruited are considered 
representative for the target population. The pre-trial treatments with regards to insulin reflect the 
current treatment practice and were well balanced between groups. T2DM groups were well balanced 
with regards to OAD treatment and patients were treated with adequate doses of metformin, DPP-4 
inhibitors and glimepiride pre-trial to ensure that these patients were true treatment failures. 
Withdrawal rates were rather low and balanced between study groups. 
The primary endpoint was met in all trials. In the T1DM trial, the improvement of HbA1c was similar 
for IDegAsp and the comparator over time and the effect was maintained over the 52 week study 
period. Non-inferiority criteria were met and although the predefined delta was somewhat high (0.4 %) 
and not in accordance with advice given, the outcome was acceptable both in the ITT and the PP 
populations with an upper 95 % CI in the range of 0.1 %. Although numerically higher in the IDegAsp 
treated group, the proportion of patients achieving the HbA1c target 7.0 % was not statistically 
different between groups. However, due to the hierarchical testing applied none of the secondary 
endpoints were formally met in the T1DM trial although a significant difference in nocturnal 
hypoglycaemia was observed. Lower postprandial PG levels were observed with IDegAsp at end of trial 
compared to IDet. An improvement in the 9-point profiles was observed in both groups.  
In the T2DM trials, the improvement of HbA1c was similar for IDegAsp and the comparators over time. 
Non-inferiority criteria were met in all trials and the outcome was acceptable both in the ITT and the 
PP populations with an upper 95 % CI in the range of 0.2 %. As in the T1DM population, numerically 
higher proportions of patients achieved the HbA1c target of 7.0%, but in none of the trials was any 
statistically significant differences observed. FPG at end of trial was higher for IDegAsp when compared 
to IGlar; this may be due to the fact that less long-acting insulin was given in the IDegAsp treated 
patients. When compared to BIAsp BID, statistically significant lower FPG was observed in the IDegAsp 
treated groups. Although some differences were observed between treatment groups, the 9-point 
profiles were generally similar between the groups. Consistent findings were observed with regards to 
the secondary endpoints “prandial PG” (OD treatment) and “FPG” (BID treatment). Findings with 
regards to different aspects of hypoglycaemia were not entirely consistent across trials. 
Except for the T2DM OD trials where IDegAsp was compared to IGlar, titration targets were achieved 
faster with IDegAsp compared to IDet or BIAsp.  
The findings regarding within subject variability were not consistent over the study program. Although 
the data on mean fluctuations give some indication of a lower fluctuation with IDegAsp compared to 
IGlar, no statistically significant differences were observed. Apart from a lower prandial increment after 
breakfast with IDegAsp, no significant differences were observed nocturnal or overall IG profiles. The 
clinical data thus are unable to confirm that the lower PD variability transforms into a more stable 
glucose profile in clinical practice. 
No clinically relevant changes or differences between groups were observed in the patient related 
outcomes. 
Since the studies were of treat-to-target design with the aim of showing non-inferiority against 
comparators, focus was to show a difference in hypoglycaemia pattern. The lower cut-off of 3.1 mmol/l 
glucose for identifying hypoglycaemia was applied throughout the studies, which is in line with the 
currently adopted guideline. Analyses according to the 3.9 mmol/l limit (documented symptomatic and 
asymptomatic) largely confirm the analyses in the lower cut-off limit, although the statistically 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 121/151 
 
 
 
 
significantly higher rate of hypoglycaemias of IDegAsp in the T2DM trial with OD dosing could no 
longer be confirmed. Thus, the finding of a lower rate of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemias was 
consistent over the study program. 
Across the study program, severe hypoglycaemias were low and generally numerically lower in the 
IDegAsp groups. Few patients withdrew due to hypoglycaemia and the withdrawals were balanced 
between groups in the T1DM trial whereas in the T2DM trials, more withdrawals occurred in the 
IDegAsp groups. Due to the low numbers, this is not considered too seriously affect the results.                        
In the T1DM trial, there was a trend towards fewer confirmed hypoglycaemias over time in the 
IDegAsp treated group. In patients with T2DM, treatment with insulin degludec/insulin aspart once 
daily (trials 3590, 3593) entailed significantly more confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes compared to 
treatment with IGlar (estimated treatment ratio 2.17 [1.59; 2.94]95%CI and 1.43 [1.07; 1.92]95%CI 
in Trials 3590 and 3593, respectively). Lower rates of confirmed hypoglycaemias were observed in 
T2DM patients treated with a BID regimen.                                   
The rates of nocturnal hypoglycaemia were lower with IDegAsp in all trials and the difference was 
statistically significant in the T1DM population as well as in study 3590 (T2DM, OD treatment) and 
study 3592 (T2DM, BID treatment).    
Considering that metformin was not mandatory in all T2DM trials, subgroup analyses of the main 
efficacy/safety results for those patients actually being treated with metformin in trials 3592 and 3597 
were provided in the responses to the Day 120 LoQ. The presented analyses did not suggest a relevant 
difference in HbA1c and confirmed hypoglycaemic /nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes for the 
subgroups of patients with/without metformin. 
Despite positive effects on nocturnal hypoglycaemia with IDegAsp, in both T2DM trials it was observed 
that comparable glycaemic control was achieved with a higher rate of overall confirmed hypoglycaemia 
when IDegAsp was dosed once daily and compared to IGlar. The highest rate of hypoglycaemia 
compared to IGlar was observed in trial 3590 where dosing of IDegAsp was done with the morning 
meal. The Applicant was requested to explain this high level of hypoglycaemias as part of a major 
objection in the Day 120 LoQ. In the Day 121 responses the Applicant explained that the majority of 
confirmed hypoglycaemic events occurred in the hours after dosing, as can be expected due to the 
IAsp component. In contrast, in trial 3593, where dosing was performed with the largest meal, the 
hypoglycaemic events are more smoothly distributed through the day. Thus, it was shown show that 
the higher rates of hypoglycaemias with IDegAsp in studies 3590 and 3593 was temporally related to 
the rapid-acting component of IDegAsp. The data support the recommendation given in the SmPC to 
take IDegAsp with the largest meal of the day. 
Both in the T1DM trial 3594 and in the T2DM trials 3590 and 3593, IDegAsp was compared to long-
acting insulin without short-acting component (IDet and IGlar, respectively). In study 3594 the 
majority of patients (119) injected IDet in the evening whereas a large proportion of the remaining 
patients (75 % out of 61 patients) shifted their dosing from OD to BID during the course of the study. 
Thus no meaningful comparisons between different dosing times can be made. 
Data on the dosing time for IGlar is only available for study 3593. Additional data is available from a 
Japanese study, 3896. In these studies, IGlar was dosed according to label, thus IGlar was used in a 
way which represents the clinical situation. Dosing with the evening meal/before bedtime was most 
common. The rate of confirmed hypoglycaemias was highest with breakfast dosing in both studies 
whereas findings were not consistent with regards to nocturnal hypoglycaemias. In study 3593, the 
rate of nocturnal hypoglycaemias was highest with breakfast dosing compared to evening 
meal/bedtime dosing whereas the opposite was observed in study 3896. Since in both these studies 
IGlar was compared to IDegAsp, no direct comparison of hypoglycaemia rates by dosing time can be 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 122/151 
 
 
 
 
                                      
made between IDeg and IGlar. The inconsistent finding regarding the rate of nocturnal hypoglycaemias 
related to pre-breakfast dosing cannot be fully analysed based on the presented data. The higher 
incidence of hypoglycaemias observed with IGlar compared to IDeg cannot be explained by a choice of 
time of dosing disfavouring IGlar. 
A weight increase is to be expected when HbA1c is lowered by intensified insulin treatment. In the 
T1DM population, weight increase was higher with IDegAsp; it should be taken into consideration that 
IDet has been associated with less weight increase than other insulins. Compared to IGlar OD (T2DM) 
the weight gain was more pronounced with IDegAsp, whereas the opposite was observed when 
compared to BIAsp BID.                                       
No clinically relevant differences between IDegAsp and the comparators were observed in the 
subpopulations studied. Subgroup analyses for elderly ≥65-<74 years and ≥75-<84, ≥85 years were 
provided for the primary endpoint and the main safety endpoints in the responses to the Day 120 LoQ. 
A slightly larger decrease in HbA1c was observed for the youngest age group <65 years, however, 
these patients had also the highest baseline HbA1c in T2DM. Similar results were seen in T1DM. As 
regards confirmed hypoglycaemia and nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia no clear pattern was evident 
for the different age groups. There was no relevant difference between treatment groups either. 
Overall it has to be considered that the number of patients ≥75 was very low (4 with T1DM and 32 
with T2DM treated with IDegAsp), for this reason the results of the eldest age groups should be 
interpreted cautiously. 
Insulin dose is determined by individual need and the dose therefore has to individually titrated. In the 
clinical trials IDegAsp treatment was initiated at a starting dose of 10 U in insulin naïve patients, and 
data support that this can be safely done. Furthermore, transfer from previous insulin treatments to 
IDegAsp was performed on a unit-to-unit basis without increase in hypoglycaemic event or 
deterioration of glycaemic control. It has also been shown that IDegAsp may be dosed with any main 
meal of the day. Data from trials 3770 and 3668 with the basal component IDeg supports that flexible 
dosing is feasible. The data regarding insulin doses during the trials does not indicate any loss of 
efficacy over time. 
The outcomes of the two exploratory trials were in all essential aspects comparable to the outcomes of 
the confirmatory trials.                                       
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Efficacy in terms of HbA1c lowering has been adequately shown. In this aspect IDegAsp has been 
shown to be non-inferior to three different comparators and dosing regimens. The data provided 
support the proposed dosing recommendations. In addition, a lower risk of nocturnal hypoglycaemia 
has been shown for IDegAsp.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The safety and tolerability of IDegAsp as monotherapy or in combination with other antidiabetic agents 
(metformin, pioglitazone and DDP-4 inhibitors) in subjects with T1DM and T2DM is described. A 
formulation of IDeg, was developed in parallel with IDegAsp in a separate clinical development 
programme. In these clinical trials there was a considerable exposure to IDeg, and for the purpose of 
this application the IDeg safety data will be considered supportive. 
The main safety parameters assessed in the trials were adverse events, vital signs, physical 
examinations, clinical laboratory values and ECG measurements. For practical and ethical reasons an 
open-label design was chosen for all the therapeutic confirmatory and therapeutic exploratory trials. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 123/151 
 
 
 
 
                                      
Two analysis sets were defined. The safety analysis set consisted of all subjects who took at least one 
dose of IMP or its comparator, whereas the full analysis set included all randomised subjects. 
Descriptive safety data were based on the safety analysis set. Statistical analysis of body weight, lipids 
and QTc (Ideg only) were based on pre-specified analyses for each individual trial and the full analysis 
set. 
Patient exposure 
The clinical development programme for IDegAsp consisted of a total of 21 completed trials. In these 
trials 2031 subjects were exposed to IDegAsp. The assessment of safety in subjects with T1DM and 
T2DM was mainly based on the 5 completed therapeutic confirmatory trials, representing the major 
part of the exposure. In these trials 1360 subjects were exposed to IDegAsp, 1181 subjects for at least 
6 months and 235 subjects for at least 12 months. T2DM accounted for 73 % of the IDegAsp exposure 
and within the exposed T2DM population approximately 27% were insulin-naïve. The exposure of 
patients with T1DM and T2DM to IDegAsp at dose levels intended for clinical use has been sufficient to 
assess the safety of the product. 
Exposure Time (Months) – All Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials – All Subjects – 
Table 21 
IDegAsp vs. Comparator – Safety Analysis Set  
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                                                                        Total Exposure  
                   Any exposure >= 6 months  >= 9 months  >= 12 months  in Subject      
                   N    %       N    %       N    %       N    %        Years           
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials                                                           
All Subjects                                                                            
  IDegAsp          1360 (100.0) 1181 ( 86.8) 245 ( 18.0)  235 ( 17.3)   750.2           
  Comparator       1037 (100.0)  910 ( 87.8) 119 ( 11.5)  114 ( 11.0)   538.8           
Subjects with T1DM                                                                      
  IDegAsp           362 (100.0)  322 ( 89.0) 245 ( 67.7)  235 ( 64.9)   296.9           
  Comparator        180 (100.0)  157 ( 87.2) 119 ( 66.1)  114 ( 63.3)   145.5           
Subjects with T2DM                                                                      
  IDegAsp           998 (100.0)  859 ( 86.1)   0            0           453.4           
  Comparator        857 (100.0)  753 ( 87.9)   0            0           393.4           
  Insulin-naïve Subjects with T2DM                                                      
    IDegAsp         265 (100.0)  220 ( 83.0)   0            0           118.3           
    Comparator      261 (100.0)  232 ( 88.9)   0            0           122.0           
  Insulin-treated Subjects with T2DM                                                    
    IDegAsp         733 (100.0)  639 ( 87.2)   0            0           335.1           
    Comparator      596 (100.0)  521 ( 87.4)   0            0           271.4           
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
N = Number of subjects, T1DM = Type 1 diabetes mellitus, T2DM = Type 2 diabetes 
mellitus, A month is defined as 30 days 
Completers in 26 weeks and 52 weeks trials counts as having 6 months and 12 months 
exposure respectively 
OAD use at end of trial in the pooled IDeg + IDegAsp trials is presented below: 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 124/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
  
 
For patients concomitantly treated with biguanides, sulphonylureas, DDP-4 inhibitors and alpha-
glucosidase inhibitors, the AEs rate was either lower in the IDeg+IDegAsp group or similar in both 
treatment groups. Concomitant treatment with glinides and thiazolidinediones was associated with a 
higher AE rate in the IDeg+IDegAsp group than in the comparator group, however this was based on a 
low number of subjects, and the differences identified in the reporting pattern of different Preferred 
Terms were small and not considered clinically relevant. Thus, although the data on concomitant 
treatment with agents other biguanides and sulphonylurea is somewhat limited, overall the data do not 
indicate any major differences in the AE rate between treatment groups. 
Co-administration of insulin degludec with GLP-1-analogues has not been investigated in clinical trials, 
and is included as missing information in the EU-RMP. 
Adverse events  
Safety data from the 5 completed therapeutic trials were pooled for the following subgroups: All 
subjects; subjects with T1DM and subjects with T2DM.  
The proportion of subjects experiencing at least one AE was numerically higher in the IDegAsp group 
(65.1%) than in the comparators (61.9%). However, the rates of AEs per 100 PYE were similar 
between groups (IDegAsp 387.3 vs. comparators 392.7). More AEs were reported in subjects with 
T1DM than T2DM, but the pattern was similar to that seen in all subjects (T1DM-IDegAsp vs., 
comparator: 73.8 % and 407.6 events per 100 PYE vs. 70.6% and 442.1 events per 100 PYE, T2DM-
IDegAsp vs. comparator: 62.0% and 374.4 events per 100 PYE vs. 60.1% and 374.1 events per 100 
PYE). 
The majority of AEs were mild or moderate in severity. Hypoglycaemic episodes were only recorded as 
AEs if they fulfilled the definition of a SAE or severe hypoglycaemia. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 125/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Events – Treatment-emergent – All Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials – 
Table 22 
All Subjects – IDegAsp vs. Comparator – Summary – Safety Analysis Set   
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                                    IDegAsp                     Comparator                 
                                     N    (%)     E    R         N    (%)     E    R        
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
Safety Analysis Set                 1360                        1037                       
All Adverse Events                   886 ( 65.1) 2906 387.3      642 ( 61.9) 2116 392.7    
Serious Adverse Events               115 (  8.5)  149  19.9       80 (  7.7)  101  18.7    
  Adverse Events leading to Death      4 (  0.3)    4   0.5        1 (  0.1)    1   0.2    
Adverse Events Possibly or Probably  171 ( 12.6)  247  32.9      133 ( 12.8)  235  43.6    
Related to IMP                                                                               
Severity                                                                                     
  Mild                               761 ( 56.0) 2140 285.2      555 ( 53.5) 1532 284.3    
  Moderate                           347 ( 25.5)  619  82.5      249 ( 24.0)  447  83.0    
  Severe                             108 (  7.9)  147  19.6       81 (  7.8)  137  25.4    
Adverse Events withdrawals            25 (  1.8)   28   3.7       16 (  1.5)   24   4.5    
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
N = Number of Subjects with adverse events 
% = Proportion of subjects in analysis set having adverse events 
E = Number of adverse events 
R = Number of events divided by Subject years of exposure multiplied by 100 
IMP = Investigational Medicinal Product 
The most frequently reported AEs (frequency ≥2%) in the therapeutic confirmatory trials are shown in 
the table below.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 126/151 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                            
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
 
 
 
 
Adverse Event in >= 2% of Subjects by System Organ Class and Preferred 
Table 23 
Term – Treatment-emergent – All Therapeutic Confirmatory Trials – All Subjects – IDegAsp 
vs. Comparator – Summary – Safety Analysis Set   
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                                    IDegAsp                        Comparator               
                                     N    (%)     E     R        N    (%)     E     R     
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
Safety Analysis Set                 1360                        1037                                                                                                                    
Total Exposure (yrs)                 750.2                       538.8                                                                                                                   
All Adverse Events                   886 ( 65.1) 2906 387.3      642 ( 61.9) 2116 392.7  
Infections and infestations                                                                      
  Nasopharyngitis                    200 ( 14.7)  266  35.5      119 ( 11.5)  164  30.4  
  Upper respiratory tract infection   90 (  6.6)  112  14.9       69 (  6.7)   89  16.5  
  Gastroenteritis                     31 (  2.3)   32   4.3       24 (  2.3)   25   4.6  
  Influenza                           32 (  2.4)   32   4.3       21 (  2.0)   25   4.6  
Gastrointestinal disorders                                                                       
  Diarrhoea                           53 (  3.9)   65   8.7       46 (  4.4)   52   9.7  
  Nausea                              24 (  1.8)   35   4.7       29 (  2.8)   33   6.1  
  Vomiting                            27 (  2.0)   28   3.7       22 (  2.1)   23   4.3  
  Dyspepsia                           13 (  1.0)   14   1.9       22 (  2.1)   29   5.4  
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue                                                            
disorders                                                                                        
  Back pain                           47 (  3.5)   52   6.9       35 (  3.4)   41   7.6  
  Arthralgia                          37 (  2.7)   41   5.5       31 (  3.0)   32   5.9  
  Pain in extremity                   37 (  2.7)   42   5.6       21 (  2.0)   23   4.3  
Nervous system disorders                                                                         
  Headache                            91 (  6.7)  169  22.5       66 (  6.4)   91  16.9  
  Dizziness                           30 (  2.2)   33   4.4       12 (  1.2)   12   2.2  
General disorders and administration                                                             
site conditions                                                                                  
  Pyrexia                             37 (  2.7)   42   5.6       23 (  2.2)   24   4.5  
  Oedema peripheral                   26 (  1.9)   35   4.7       23 (  2.2)   23   4.3  
Metabolism and nutrition disorders                                                               
  Hypoglycaemia                       50 (  3.7)   77  10.3       47 (  4.5)   81  15.0  
Eye disorders                                                                                    
  Diabetic retinopathy                48 (  3.5)   49   6.5       32 (  3.1)   32   5.9  
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal                                                               
disorders                                                                                           
  Cough                               32 (  2.4)   35   4.7       19 (  1.8)   20   3.7     
  Oropharyngeal pain                  30 (  2.2)   33   4.4       19 (  1.8)   21   3.9                                                                                                        
Vascular disorders                                                                                  
  Hypertension                        44 (  3.2)   48   6.4       21 (  2.0)   22   4.1     
———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————
N= Number of Subjects with adverse events, %= Proportion of subjects in analysis set 
having  adverse events, E= Number of  adverse events, R= Number of events divided by 
Subject years of  exposure multiplied by 100.                                   
Total Exposure (yrs)= Total Exposure in years for Safety Analysis Set 
Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory infections, headache and diarrhoea were the most frequently 
occurring adverse events in both treatment groups.  
In all subjects there were no pronounced differences in reporting rates between treatment groups. 
However, smaller differences were seen mainly for the PTs nasopharyngitis, dizziness, pain in 
extremity, and dyspnoea, where AEs were reported at a slightly higher rate in the IDegAsp group than 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 127/151 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                              
                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 
                                                                                                    
 
 
in the comparators. The distribution of AEs was generally similar in subjects with T1DM and T2DM, 
although, sinusitis, headache, hyperglycaemia, oropharyngeal pain, weight increased and peripheral 
oedema were slightly more common in the IDegAsp group than in comparators in subjects with T1DM, 
but not in subjects with T2DM. 
In the pooled data from all IDeg + IDegAsp therapeutic confirmatory trials (all subjects) the rate of 
AEs was similar between treatment groups. Also, the distribution of adverse events was similar to that 
seen in the IDegAsp trials, with slight between-group differences in reporting rates for nasopharyngitis, 
headache, wrong drug administered and weight increased, favouring the comparators. 
These slight differences in rates of certain AEs are not considered clinically significant. Furthermore, 
they could likely be explained by the open label trial design (many subjects in the comparator group 
continued on their usual treatment) and by random variation as for many of the PTs the number of 
subjects reporting AEs was low. 
Adverse Events of Special Interest 
Injection site reactions were reported at a lower rate in the IDegAsp group than in the comparator 
group (5.1 events per 100 PYE and 10.0 events per 100 PYE, respectively). This was a reflection of the 
significantly lower rate seen in subjects with T1DM (IDegAsp 3.4 vs. IDet 28.2 events per 100 PYE), 
and was mainly due to one subject in the IDet group reporting many events. In contrast, the rate of 
injection site reactions in subjects with T2DM was numerically higher in the IDegAsp group than in the 
comparators (IDegAsp 6.2 vs. comparators 3.3 events per 100 PYE). The majority of injection site 
reactions were mild. No injection site reactions were assessed as serious. No differences were seen in 
time of onset or duration of the injection site reactions between IDegAsp and the comparators, with 
most reactions resolving spontaneously in a few days. 
The rates of lipodystrophy in the therapeutic confirmatory trials were low for both IDegAsp (0.3 events 
per 100 PYE) and comparators (2.2 events per 100 PYE). 
Injections site reactions and lipodystrophy are included in section 4.8 of the SmPC.  
Peripheral oedema was reported at a similar rate for IDegAsp and comparators for all subjects 
(IDegAsp 4.7 vs. comparator 4.3 events per 100 PYE) and for subjects with T2DM (IDegAsp 5.1 vs. 
comparator 5.8 events per 100 PYE). In subjects with T1DM, 8 subjects in the IDegAsp groups (4.0 
events per 100 PYE) and no subjects in the IDet group reported peripheral oedema. The majority of 
events were mild in severity. None of the events were severe or serious. 
Four events were assessed as possibly or probably related to IDegAsp (0.5 events per 100 PYE) and 
two events as related to the comparators (0.4 events per 100 PYE). In the four subjects treated with 
IDegAsp, the time to onset of the events was at least one month after start of treatment and all 
subjects were diagnosed with one or more confounding medical history. 
Peripheral oedema has been included in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Cardiovascular safety was assessed based on a meta-analysis of independently confirmed and blindly 
adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE). Initially, a MACE analysis based on data 
from all 16 therapeutic confirmatory IDeg + IDegAsp trials, including one completed extension trial 
(Trial 3645) was submitted. The observed population included 8941 subjects (safety analysis set), 
5635 exposed to IDeg/IDegAsp and 3306 subjects exposed to comparators, and included a wide range 
of patients from early to more advanced stages of disease. 
Overall, the rates of cardiovascular events were similar between IDeg + IDegAsp and comparators 
(Cardiac Disorders: IDeg/IDegAsp 6.4 events per 100 PYE and comparators 6.9 events per 100 PYE 
and Vascular Disorders: IDeg/IDegAsp 8.2 events per 100 PYE and comparators 7.1 events per 100 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 128/151 
 
 
 
 
PYE). In the Vascular SOC, hypertension was the most frequently reported event, and was numerically 
higher in the IDeg group (IDeg: 5.9 events per 100 PYE, comparators: 4.5 events per 100 PYE). No 
specific pattern was observed for the cardiac events.  
The incidence rate of MACE was 1.48 events per 100 PYE in the IDeg + IDegAsp group and 1.44 
events per 100 PYE in the comparator group. The estimated hazard ratio for IDeg + IDegAsp versus 
comparators was 1.10 (95% confidence interval [CI]: [0.68; 1.77]). 
In response to the second D180 LoQ an updated MACE analysis with May 1, 2012 as a cut-off was 
submitted including 9 additional completed trials: 6 extension trials (5 IDeg and 1 IDegAsp), 1 new 
IDegAsp phase 3a trial in Japanese patients (Trial 3896), and 2 new IDeg phase 3b trials (Trials 3846 
and 3923).  The nine trials included an additional 742 patients treated with IDeg+IDegAsp and 149 
patients treated with comparator products and added 1837.8 PYE for IDeg+IDegAsp and 688.9 PYE for 
comparator to the MACE analyses. More than 80% of the additional exposure originated from trials 
with extension periods. 
Updated analyses of MACE events were conducted based on all completed randomized phase 3 trials. 
In addition, post-hoc analyses were presented for 1) all completed phase 3 trials (including the 
extension trials) and including MACE events occurring up-to 30 days post treatment, 2) MACE events 
occurring up to 7 days post-treatment excluding unstable angina pectoris and 3) MACE events 
occurring up to 30 days post-treatment and excluding unstable angina pectoris.  
When all randomized trials up to May 1, 2012 were included (excluding the extension phases), the 
estimated hazard ratio was in line with that of the prespecified primary analysis; 1.125 vs 1.097.  
In the post-hoc analysis, hazard ratios increased in favor of the comparator when the MACE analysis 
included data from the extension phase of the clinical studies and the definition was extended to 
include cases up to 30 days after treatment discontinuation or limited to exclude cases of unstable 
angina pectoris (UAP). The highest hazard ratio (1.614; [0.999;2.609]) was observed for the MACE 
definition combining these two (i.e. excluding cases of UAP and extending the time period to 30 days 
post treatment).  
The applicant argued that the analyses including the extension data are not as robust, as these were 
based on low patient numbers (a total of 49 MACE events, 40 with IDeg/IDegAsp and 9 with 
comparator), as the original randomization of the trials was compromised (patients had to elect 
whether or not to continue participating in the extension trials) and as the switch to NPH insulin could 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 129/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
result in a transient reduction of glycaemic control in between the main and the extension trials. These 
arguments are acknowledged.  
The increase in estimated hazard ratio observed when excluding cases of UAP has not been explained. 
However, there is no indication from pre-clinical data that IDeg/IDegAsp was associated with any 
increased cardiovascular risk. Furthermore, the underlying pathomechanism for unstable angina is 
expected to be the same as that involved in the other cardiovascular events included in the MACE 
analysis (acute coronary syndrome/MI). Thus, this finding could likely be due to chance. 
Overall, the estimated hazard ratios based on data from the randomized trials are close to one. The 
somewhat large confidence intervals are a reflection of the limited number of cases. A number of post-
hoc sensitivity analyses of the MACE data all supported the result of the primary analysis. Thus, the 
current data does not reveal an increased CV risk for IDeg/IDegAsp treated patients. Based on this, 
the applicant did not include cardiovascular events in the RMP, and no pharmacovigilance activities are 
proposed. This is considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Neoplasms were analysed based on the therapeutic confirmatory trials for IDeg and IDegAsp.  
A total of 211 events of neoplasm reported with IDeg, IDegAsp or comparators were identified. These 
were sent in a blinded manner to an external independent consultant for classification into malignant 
(n=45), benign (n=128) or unclassifiable (n=25) events. The proportion of subjects being diagnosed 
with malignant neoplasm was the same (0.5%) in both treatment groups, and the overall numbers of 
malignant neoplasms reported with IDeg+IDegAsp in the therapeutic confirmatory trials were low and 
similar to comparators (IDeg+IDegAsp: 0.9 events per 100 PYE; comparator: 0.8 events per 100 PYE).  
The five most frequently reported malignancies were skin (n=13), gastro-intestinal (n=11), breast 
(n=5), thyroid (n=4) and bladder neoplasms (n=3). The first 3 are further discussed below. Skin and 
gastro-intestinal malignant neoplasms were more common in IDeg + IDegAsp group, whereas breast, 
thyroid and bladder malignant neoplasms were more common in the comparator group. 
Of the 13 malignant skin neoplasms, 11 events were reported with IDeg + IDegAsp (0.31 events per 
100 PYE). Two events were reported with comparators (0.12 events per 100 PYE). Except for one 
event of malignant melanoma reported with IDeg, all events were either basal cell carcinomas or 
squamous cell carcinomas; none of the events were related to injection sites. The majority of the 
events (n=9, 73%) in the IDeg+IDegAsp group were diagnosed within 3 months of start of trial. 
Furthermore, in five events in the IDeg+IDegAsp group (45%) the skin lesion was present at baseline 
and/or the subject had a medical history of skin cancer. When excluding these events, the rates of 
basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma in the IDeg + IDegAsp group were 0.05 events per 
100 PYE for both carcinoma types. These rates are comparable to the incidence rates of basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma in the non-diabetic background population, which range 
between 0.05 to 0.12 cases per 100 PYE (average incidence rate 0.078 cases per 100 PYE [CI: 0.077; 
0.079]) and 0.01 to 0.04 cases per 100 PYE (average incidence rate 0.020 cases per 100 PYE [CI: 
0.020; 0.021]), respectively. 
Of the 11 malignant gastro-intestinal neoplasms 8 events were reported with IDeg + IDegAsp (0.22 
events per 100 PYE) and 3 events with comparator (0.16 events per 100 PYE). Of the eight malignant 
gastrointestinal neoplasms reported with IDeg + IDegAsp, seven of the events were related to colon 
cancer and one event was a gastric cancer. The three events reported in the comparator group were: 
one event of colon cancer, one event of pancreatic cancer and one event metastatic gastric cancer. All 
of the events of colon neoplasms were reported in subjects with T2DM, and the majority of the 
subjects were obese. One event of colon cancer was diagnosed shortly after trial start. The remaining 
events were diagnosed within 6-7 months after trial start. The reporting rate for the colon neoplasms 
in the IDeg + IDegAsp group (0.20 events per 100 PYE) is comparable to the incidence rate observed 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 130/151 
 
 
 
 
in the background diabetic population. According to studies in the literature, the incidence rate of colo-
rectal cancer in subjects with diabetes, irrespective of treatment, range from 0.17-0.31 cases per 100 
PYE, and the average incidence rate is calculated to 0.21 cases (CI: 0.20;0.22) per 100 PYE. 
Thus, overall the number of neoplastic events in the clinical setting was low and balanced between 
treatment groups. Colon cancer and skin cancer were reported more frequently in the IDeg+IDegAsp 
group than in the comparators; however, the rate was similar to that seen in the general diabetic 
population. Furthermore, the non-clinical data did not indicate any increased neoplastic potential 
associated with IDeg. Thus, the disparities observed within the individual PTs for both malignant and 
benign neoplasms are considered attributable to random variation. Based on this, the applicant has not 
included neoplastic events in the RMP, and no additional pharmacovigilance activities are proposed. 
This is endorsed. The Applicant has committed to closely monitoring events of colon cancer in future 
PSURs. 
Medication errors were reported at a rate of 2.4 % (5.2 events per 100 PYE) and 2.2 % (3.2 events 
per 100 PYE) in the IDegAsp group and the comparator group, respectively. 
Most medication errors were reported as wrong drug administered due to mix-ups between insulins, or 
incorrect dose administered. The remaining medication errors were due to dispensing errors, missed 
dose, administration of insulin from patients’ own supply, inappropriate schedule and wrong injection 
technique. 
The rate of medication mix-ups was slightly higher in the IDegAsp group than in the comparators 
(IDegAsp 1%, 2.1 events per 100 PYE vs. comparators 0.6%, 1.1 events per 100 PYR), as was the rate 
of incorrect dosing (IDegAsp 1%, 2.0 events per 100 PYE vs. comparator 0.6%, 1.1 events per 100 
PYE). Approximately 60% of mix-ups were reported within the first two months of treatment and in 
half of the cases a hypoglycaemic episode was reported in relation to the mix-up. Except for one case 
(requiring assistance of a family member), the subjects were able to treat themselves. 
The applicant provides several explanations for the higher rate of medication errors in the IDegAsp 
group. Particularly, it could be due to more focus on medication errors with a new insulin and that 
many of the patients randomised to the comparator insulin might have been familiar with the device 
prior to trial treatment. Furthermore, the device used during trials for which the medication errors 
were reported, differed from the planned marketed product, for which the final packaging and labelling 
has been developed and optimized to minimize the potential risk for product mix-ups. These 
explanations are accepted. The risk of mix-ups may be increased in subjects with visual impairment. 
To mitigate this risk, the Applicant has revised the SmPC, the PIL and the IFU, stating that patients 
with visual impairment should get assistance from a person with good vision who is trained in using 
the device. This is endorsed. With regards to patients with inherent colour blindness, normally affecting 
the red and green colour spectra, this is unlikely to be a concern with Ryzodeg which has a blue colour 
code.  
Diabetic retinopathy related events occurred at a similar rate with IDegAsp and comparators (8.3 
events per 100 PYE and 8.2 events per 100 PYE, respectively). The median time to onset of 
retinopathy events in all subjects was similar between IDegAsp (183 days) and comparator (181 days) 
groups. 
A higher rate of diabetic retinopathy was reported in both treatment groups in the Pan-Asian 
population (16 events and 14 events per 100 PYE for IDegAsp and comparator, respectively). The 
higher reporting rate in the Japanese subjects may be partly explained by the widespread use of the 
Fukuda-criteria in Japan for classifying and grading severity of retinopathy. These criteria allow a more 
detailed and specific grading of the stage of retinopathy. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 131/151 
 
 
 
 
Abrupt improvement in glycaemic control may be associated with a temporary worsening of diabetic 
retinopathy. This is a class effect of insulins and a statement regarding this has been included in the 
SmPC section 4.4. This is accepted. 
Peripheral neuropathy was reported at a lower rate in the IDegAsp group (5.1 events per 100 PYE) 
than comparators (7.1 events per 100 PYE). The majority of the events were mild or moderate in 
severity. The rates of peripheral neuropathy were higher in the subjects with T2DM than in the 
subjects with T1DM for both treatment groups. In the subjects with T2DM the rate of peripheral 
neuropathy was lower for IDegAsp (6.8 events per 100 PYE) than comparators (8.9 events per 100 
PYE). 
Hyperglycaemia was reported at a similar rate with IDegAsp and comparators (1.6 events per 100 PYE 
and 2.0 events per 100 PYE, respectively). As expected, due to the nature of the disease, the rates of 
hyperglycaemia were higher in the subjects with T1DM than in the subjects with T2DM for both 
IDegAsp and comparators. 
Six SAEs of hyperglycaemia (all cases of diabetic ketoacidosis) were reported, three with IDegAsp and 
three with comparators.  
Hypoglycaemic events have been reported and analysed in the efficacy section.  Hypoglycaemic 
episodes were only recorded as AEs (and reported in the safety section) if they fulfilled the definition of 
a SAE or severe hypoglycaemia. Serious hypoglycaemic events are discussed in the section on SAEs. 
Events of severe hypoglycaemia, defined according to the CHMP draft guideline on the clinical 
investigation of medicinal products in the treatment of diabetes mellitus (CHMP/EWP/1080/00 Rev. 1), 
were reported as events of special interest and are discussed below. 
The rate of severe hypoglycaemia (and nocturnal severe hypoglycaemia) was lower in the IDegAsp 
group than in the comparator group, both in subjects with T1DM ((27 and 45 episodes per 100 PYE 
and 5 and 19 nocturnal episodes per 100 PYE, respectively) and T2DM ((3.5 and 8.1 episodes per 100 
PYE and 0.4 and 2.3 nocturnal episodes per 100 PYE, respectively). In subjects with T2DM, most 
events were reported in previously insulin treated individuals with BID dosing. In the IDegAsp group, 
more events occurred within the first 3-4 months of the trials and the occurrence over the time of day 
was constant (T1DM) or lower during the afternoon and early night than during the day (T2DM). The 
duration of hypoglycaemic episodes did not differ between treatment groups. 
In the subgroup of subjects experiencing severe hypoglycaemia, the rates of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes and nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes were similar between groups in T1DM and 
higher in the IDegAsp group than in the comparators for subjects with T2DM. However, this 
observation was based on a low number of subjects (34 in total). 
Episodes of severe hypoglycaemia was also analysed as a pre-specified secondary analysis in the 
prospectively planned meta-analysis including all therapeutic confirmatory trials with IDeg OD and 
IGlar as comparators. This meta-analysis showed no statistically significant treatment difference 
between treatment groups (IDeg-IGlar); estimated rate ratio 0.98 [0.66; 1.45]95%CI. 
Counter-regulation to controlled hypoglycaemia was studied in one trial (3538) with IDeg. In this trial, 
the clinical response and counter-regulatory mechanisms to hypoglycaemia was similar with IDeg and 
IGlar. Furthermore, a review of the patient reported hypoglycaemia questionnaires and the case 
narratives of episodes of hypoglycaemia, fatal cases and overdoses, did not indicate any difference in 
the duration or recurrence of hypoglycaemic episodes between treatment groups. 
In addition, recurrent hypoglycaemic episodes in patients with a confirmed episode of hypoglycaemia 
in the basal only trials were analyzed. Overall, the event rate in both treatment groups was similar (or 
lower) in the IDeg group compared to the IGlar group.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 132/151 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
In all subjects in the therapeutic confirmatory trials, the rates of SAEs were similar for IDegAsp and 
comparators (IDegAsp: 8.5% and 19.9 events per 100 PYE vs. comparators: 7.7% and 18.7 events 
per 100 PYE) but higher than that observed in the IDeg trials (IDeg: 7.9%, 15.1 events per 100 PYE). 
In subjects with T1DM the rate of the SAEs was higher for IDegAsp (12.7%, 24.3 events per 100 PYE) 
than IDet (11.1%, 19.2 events per 100 PYE) whereas in subjects with T2DM the rates of SAEs were 
similar between treatment groups (IDegAsp: 6.9%, 17 events and comparators: 7.0%, 18.6 events 
per 100 PYE).  
In T1DM most SAEs (≥1% subjects in one or both treatment groups) were reported in the following 
SOCs: Metabolism and nutrition disorders, Musculoskeletal disorder and connective tissue disorders, 
and Gastrointestinal disorders (both IDegAsp and comparators), and Infections and infestations and 
Injury, Poisoning and procedural complications (IDegAsp). The most frequently reported SAEs in both 
groups were hypoglycaemia. Other than that, SAEs for individual PTs were only reported once or twice. 
The combined rate of hypoglycaemia reported as SAEs was higher in the IDegAsp group than in the 
IDet group (IDegAsp: 12.5 episodes per 100 PYE, comparator: 9.6 episodes per 100 PYE). This 
difference was driven by one subject in the IDegAsp group having 8 (of a total of 38) hypoglycaemic 
events reported as SAEs, and the proportion of patients with serious hypoglycaemic events was similar 
in both treatment groups (IDegAsp 6.9% vs. comparator 7.7%). 
In T2DM most SAEs (≥1% of subjects in one or both treatment groups) for both IDegAsp and 
comparators were reported in the following SOCs: Cardiac disorders, Infections and Infestations, and 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders. The most frequently reported SAEs in both groups were 
hypoglycaemia. Other than that there was no specific pattern or clustering of SAEs. 
The combined rate of hypoglycaemic episodes reported as SAEs was lower for IDegAsp than 
comparators (0.6% and 1.8 events per 100 PYE vs. 1.6% and 3.6 episodes per 100 PYE, respectively). 
In total, six deaths were reported in the completed clinical trials conducted with IDegAsp (IDegAsp: 4 
subjects, BIAsp 30: 2 subjects).  AEs with the outcome of death were balanced between treatment 
groups. 
In the pooled populations of IDeg + IDegAsp therapeutic confirmatory trials the rates of SAEs were 
similar for IDeg + IDegAsp (16.1 events per 100 PYE), and comparators (15.0 events per 100 PYE), 
and somewhat lower than that reported for IDegAsp alone (19.9 events per 100 PYE). The distribution 
of SAEs was similar in all treatment groups (IDeg, IDegAsp and comparators). 
Laboratory findings 
Few subjects had clinically significant changes in laboratory values, clinical examination results 
(including funduscopy/fundusphotography) or ECG recordings and there was no difference between 
treatment groups for any of these parameters.  
A “thorough QT study” was not conducted. However, QTc measurements were collected in one clinical 
trial including 766 subjects treated with IDeg and 257 subjects treated with comparator. No significant 
differences between treatment groups were detected (ANOVA statistical analysis). Thus, the lack of a 
thorough QT study is considered acceptable.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 133/151 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
Detailed analyses of the impact of age, sex, race, body mass index and renal and hepatic function on 
the frequency of adverse events in the Pivotal Safety Population were performed. 
In the group of subjects aged >65, a higher rate of hypertension and haematoma was seen with 
IDegAsp than with comparators. This pattern was also seen in the IDeg trials. However, the between 
group differences were based on few cases and are likely due to chance. Furthermore, in many cases 
confounding factors were reported. In subjects >75 years, higher rates of AEs and SAEs were observed 
for IDegAsp than for comparators. However, this was based on a low number of subjects and should be 
interpreted with caution. 
In the controlled therapeutic exploratory and confirmatory trials, 1303 (20.4%) subjects < 65 years 
were exposed to IDeg or IDegAsp including 153 subjects ≥ 75 years. This is in accordance with the 
ICH E7 guideline. Exposure to IDeg + IDeg/Asp in the subgroup of subjects with T1DM >75 years was 
low (n=13, PYE = 9) and may not have been sufficient to adequately address the safety of the product 
in subjects with T1DM. Thus, “use in subject >75 years with T1DM” has been addressed as Missing 
Information in the RMP. The SmPC recommends intensified glucose monitoring in the elderly. This is 
considered sufficient.  
Renal impairment was evaluated in a pharmacokinetic study. The study did not show any differences in 
the pharmacokinetic properties of IDeg in subjects with different degrees of renal impairment; 
however, the study was very small, including only 30 patients. 
In the pivotal clinical trials the number of IDeg + IDegAsp treated patients with moderate renal 
impairment was limited (n=65), and it is difficult to draw conclusions regarding any between treatment 
group differences in this small subgroup of patients. Therefore, moderate renal impairment has been 
included as missing information in the RMP. 
The most informative data are derived from the IDeg + IDegAsp treated patients with mild renal 
impairment (n = 824), where data on adverse events, severe hypoglycaemia and confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, were evaluated using two different analysis (renal impairment defined based 
on estimated creatinine clearance (mild, moderate) and based on baseline serum creatinine (at or 
above 75 percentile)). Overall, the results of these two analyses were consistent. 
In subjects with T1DM and mild renal impairment the rate of adverse events including severe 
hypoglycaemic episodes was numerically lower with IDegAsp that with comparator. For confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes the results were conflicting, with numerically higher rates with IDegAsp vs. 
comparator when based on estimated creatinine clearance, and numerically lower for IDegAsp when 
based on baseline creatinine. 
In subjects with T2DM and mild renal impairment the rate of AEs was numerically higher with IDegAsp 
than comparator, whereas for severe hypoglycaemia and confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes, there 
were no consistent differences between treatment groups. 
Hepatic impairment was evaluated in a pharmacokinetic study (Trial 1989) including 24 subjects with 
different degrees of hepatic impairment. Exposure to IDeg as measured by AUCIDeg,0-120h,SD was 
not affected by degree of hepatic impairment. 
In the clinical development program, the number of subjects with hepatic impairment (based on 
bilirubin and albumin as adapted from the Child-Pugh criteria) was: 15 subjects with T1DM 
(IDeg+IDegAsp: 13 and comparator: 2) and 25 subjects with T2DM (IDeg: 13 and comparator: 12). 
Although there were more SAEs (by rate and exposure) in the IDeg/IDegAsp group compared to 
comparator (IDeg+IDegAsp 49.5 events/100 PYE, comparator 11.6 events/100 PYE), the overall 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 134/151 
 
 
 
 
number of SAEs was low and there was no clustering of SAE in the IDeg/IDegAsp group. The proposed 
labelling concerning hepatic impairment is in line with other basal insulin analogues and is acceptable.  
Other than that, there was no consistent pattern of TEAEs to suggest an association between intrinsic 
factors and an increased risk of experiencing a TEAE. 
Immunological events 
Immunogenicity related AEs are included as an important identified risk in the RMP. 
Allergic reactions were assessed based on events reported in IDeg and IDegAsp trials. In the 
therapeutic confirmatory trials, the reporting rate was similar for IDeg + IDegAsp and comparators 
(1.3 events per 100 PYE (0.8%) and 0.9 events per 100 PYE (0.5%), respectively) and similar between 
subjects with T1DM and T2DM. 
In all IDeg/IDegAsp trials, a total of 65 immunogenicity related AEs were identified. All cases were 
assessed for a potential causal association. Ten (10) events were assessed as potentially related to IMP 
(IDeg or IDegAsp n=7 and comparator n=3). The 7 events in the IDeg/IDegAsp group were 
hypersensitivity (3) and urticaria (4). Three cases reported with IDeg were assessed as serious and 
according to narratives in one of these cases the sponsor assessed the event as possibly related to 
IDeg. 
Furthermore, there was one case of periorbital oedema in the therapeutic exploratory trials and one 
event of suspected anaphylactic reaction in a clinical pharmacology trial, assessed as possibly related 
to IDeg by the investigator, but not included among the events with a causal association after medical 
evaluation by the applicant. The event of periorbital oedema does not seem to be related to treatment 
with IDeg, as the subject continued in the trial and recovered from the event without additional 
treatment or changes in IDeg treatment. In contrast, the second case is suggestive of an allergic 
reaction to IDeg, reporting generalised pruritus, redness and swelling of lips and eyelids following one 
dose of IDeg. No events consistent with an anaphylactic reaction were reported. Overall, the 
frequencies of immunogenicity related AEs was low and not unexpected and are appropriately reflected 
in the proposed labelling in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
The number of subjects that had an increase of 10%B/T or more in antibodies cross-reacting with 
human insulin or an increase in specific insulin analogue antibodies of 5% B/T or more was low in both 
the IDegAsp and the comparator group (IDegAsp n= 86, comparator n=139. When pooling the three 
IDegAsp trials where antibodies were measured, the change from baseline to the end of the trial in 
mean and median level of cross-reacting antibodies in the IDegAsp group was lower than in the 
comparator groups. There was no change from baseline to the end of the trial in mean or median level 
of IDeg specific antibodies in the IDegAsp group. 
No immunogenicity-related events were reported in the IDegAsp groups for these subjects (two events 
were reported in the comparator group). 
The lower rate of cross reacting antibodies observed in the IDegAsp group compared to the comparator 
groups is considered reassuring. However, all insulin products carry a risk of antibody development. 
From what is known about other insulin products, a subgroup of antibody positive patients will develop 
antibodies with a neutralising capacity. As neutralizing antibodies are infrequent, it is not possible to 
entirely exclude this risk based on data from the clinical trials with IDeg+IDegAsp. Thus, 
“Immunological Events – formation of insulin antibodies”, has been included as an Important Potential 
Risk in the RMP, and relevant information has been included in SmPC section 4.4.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 135/151 
 
 
 
 
Based on the fact that a relatively large number of subjects were included in the IDeg (and IDegAsp) 
trials and that there is no evidence to indicate that IDeg is more immunogenic that the comparators, 
routine pharmacovigilance activities are considered sufficient. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
There was no evidence of a clinically significant interaction between IDeg and concomitant glucose 
increasing, glucose lowering or protein binding drugs. Medicinal products known to interact with 
glucose metabolism have been included in section 4.5 of the SmPC.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The percentages of subjects who withdrew from the trial due to an AE were low for both IDegAsp 
(1.8% and 3.7 events per 100 PYE) and comparators (1.5% and 4.5 events per 100 PYE) and similar in 
subjects with T1DM and T2DM. The majority of the AEs leading to withdrawal were SAEs in both 
IDegAsp and comparators group. The percentages of subjects who withdrew from the trial due to a 
SAE was similar between treatment groups for all subjects (IDegAsp: 1.4% and 2.8 events per 100 
PYE and comparators: 1.1% and 2.4 events per 100 PYE) and for subjects with T2DM. In subjects with 
T1DM, the majority of AEs leading to withdrawal in the IDegAsp group were SAEs while only one of the 
AEs leading to withdrawal in the IDet group was a SAE. Therefore, the rate of SAEs leading to 
withdrawal was numerically higher for IDegAsp (1.7% and 2.7 events per 100 PYE) than comparators 
(0.6% and 0.7 events per 100 PYE). 
In T1DM, four out of the six AEs leading to withdrawal in the IDegAsp group were related to 
hypoglycaemia. In the comparator group only one SAE was reported (diabetic ketoacidosis). 
In T2DM, all the events leading to withdrawal in the IDegAsp group were reported only once, except 
for headache (2 events), wrong drug administered (2 events) and interstitial lung disease (2 events). 
None of the events in the comparators group were reported more than once. 
Discontinuation due to hypoglycaemia was similar in both treatment groups in subjects with T1DM 
(IDeg 3%, comparator 2.2%) and T2DM (IDeg 0.8%, comparator 0.6%).  
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
In the 21 completed clinical trials constituting the clinical development program for IDegAsp, a total of 
2031 subjects were exposed to IDegAsp. The assessment of safety in subjects with T1DM and T2DM 
was mainly based on the 5 completed therapeutic confirmatory trials, where 1360 subjects were 
exposed to IDegAsp, 1181 subjects for at least 6 months and 235 subjects for at least 12 months. The 
exposure of patients with T1DM and T2DM to IDegAsp at dose levels intended for clinical use is 
considered sufficient to assess the safety of the product. 
Overall, AEs were reported in a somewhat lower frequency than that seen in the IDeg trials (IDegAsp 
65.1%, 387.3 events per 100 PYE, IDeg 70.6%, 428.1 events per 100 PYE). The rate and distribution 
of AEs was similar in the IDegAsp group and in the comparators, and the vast majority of AEs were 
mild or moderate in severity. Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory infections, headache and diarrhoea 
were the most frequently occurring adverse events in both treatment groups. 
No major differences in reporting rates between treatment groups were observed. However, for certain 
PTs, AEs were reported with a slightly higher frequency in the IDegAsp group than in the comparators. 
These differences were most pronounced for the PTs nasopharyngitis, dizziness, pain in extremity, 
dyspnoea, sinusitis (T1DM), headache (T1DM), hyperglycaemia (T1DM), oropharyngeal pain (T1DM), 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 136/151 
 
 
 
 
weight increased (T1DM) and peripheral oedema (T1DM). However, these slight differences in rates of 
certain AEs are not considered clinically significant. Furthermore, they could likely be explained by the 
open label trial design (many subjects in the comparator group continued on their usual treatment) 
and by random variation (for many of the PTs the number of subjects reporting AEs was low). 
AEs with the outcome of death were balanced between treatment groups. Relatively few SAEs were 
reported. The most frequently reported SAEs in all subjects were events related to hypoglycaemia. 
Hypoglycaemic episodes were only recorded as AEs if they fulfilled the definition of a SAE or severe 
hypoglycaemia (according to the CHMP guideline, CHMP/EWP/1080/00 Rev. 1). The combined rate of 
hypoglycaemic episodes reported as SAEs was higher for IDegAsp than the comparator in subjects with 
T1DM, however, this was driven by one subject reporting several events, and the proportion of 
subjects reporting serious hypoglycaemic events were similar in both treatment groups. The rate of 
severe hypoglycaemia and nocturnal severe hypoglycaemia was lower in the IDegAsp group than in 
the comparator group, both in subjects with T1DM and T2DM. The number of subjects withdrawing 
from the clinical trials due to hypoglycaemia was low and generally similar between treatment groups. 
The duration of severe hypoglycaemic episodes was similar between treatment groups, when assessed 
based on case narratives, patient reported hypoglycaemia questionnaires and on an analysis of 
recurrent hypoglycaemia in patients with confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes. Furthermore, the clinical 
response and counter-regulatory mechanisms to hypoglycaemia was investigated in a clinical 
pharmacology IDeg trial, and found to be similar to that seen with IGlar.  
Medication errors, mainly due to administration of the wrong drug (mix-ups between bolus and basal 
insulin) or dose, were observed at a slightly higher frequency in the IDegAsp group than in the 
comparator group. This was also seen in the IDeg trials. This could be due to more focus on medication 
errors with a new insulin and that many of the patients randomised to the comparator insulin might 
have been familiar with the device prior to trial treatment. Furthermore, the device used during trials 
for which the medication errors were reported, differed from the planned marketed product, for which 
the final packaging and labelling has been developed and optimized to minimize the potential risk for 
product mix-ups. These explanations were considered acceptable by the CHMP. The risk of medication 
errors in subjects with visual impairment is considered mitigated by the differentiation features 
introduced to the insulin pen (including tactile features) and the information included in the SmPC and 
PIL, stating that one of the requirements for patients to self-inject is that they can read the dose 
counter of the pen. “Medication Errors Due to Mix-up between Ryzodeg and Bolus Insulin” has been 
included as an important potential risk in the RMP which is accepted.  
Overall the incidence of malignant neoplasms was low and there was no difference between treatment 
groups in the proportion of patients developing a malignancy. There was a slight imbalance between 
treatment groups (skin malignancies and gastrointestinal malignancies were more common in the 
IDeg/IDegAsp group, whereas breast, thyroid and bladder malignant neoplasms were more common in 
the comparator group). Approximately half of all malignant events in the IDeg/IDegAsp groups 
occurred within 3 months of treatment. With regards to skin cancer, all events but one were squamous 
or basal cell carcinoma of which several were present at baseline or occurred within the first three 
months of treatment. When excluding these cases, the reporting rate of skin cancer was similar to that 
seen in epidemiological studies. Colon cancer was numerically more frequent in the IDeg+IDegAsp 
group than in the comparators, however, the number of events was low and the rate was similar to 
that seen in the general diabetic population. Furthermore, in non-clinical studies IDeg has been 
demonstrated to have a relatively low IGF-1 receptor binding affinity compared to insulin receptor 
binding, and the balance between the metabolic and proliferative actions of IDeg is similar to that of 
human insulin. Also, IDeg was not associated with any treatment related changes in the occurrence of 
hyperplastic or neoplastic lesions in the pre-clinical studies. Thus, the CHMP concluded that the 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 137/151 
 
 
 
 
disparities observed within the individual PTs for both malignant and benign neoplasms are considered 
attributable to random variation. In view of this, the Applicant has not included neoplastic events in the 
RMP, and no additional pharmacovigilance activities are proposed. This is endorsed by the CHMP. The 
Applicant will closely monitor events of colon cancer in future PSURs. 
Injection site reactions were reported with a similar frequency in both treatment groups. The incidence 
of lipodystrophy was low and similar in both groups. 
The rates of immunogenicity related AEs, including AEs assessed as related to IMP, were generally low 
and similar between groups. The most frequently reported AE in both treatment groups were urticaria, 
however, there were reports of swelling of the face, eyes, lips and tongue consistent with events of 
angioedema. There were 7 immunogenicity related events where a potential causal relationship to 
IDeg or IDegAsp could not be excluded. Three cases reported with IDeg were assessed as serious and 
according to narratives in one of these cases the sponsor assessed the event as possible related to 
IDeg. There were no reports of anaphylactic reactions. The risk of hypersensitivity reactions is 
adequately reflected in the SmPC.  
The mean change from baseline to end of treatment in antibodies cross-reacting with human insulin 
and in specific insulin analogue antibodies was low, and there was no difference between treatment 
groups. No increase in AEs or differences in treatment effect was seen in these subjects. However, all 
insulin products carry a risk of antibody development. From what is known about other insulin products, 
a subgroup of antibody positive patients will develop antibodies with a neutralising capacity. As 
neutralizing antibodies are infrequent, it is not possible to entirely exclude this risk based on data from 
the clinical trials with IDeg+IDegAsp. Thus, “Immunological Events – formation of insulin antibodies”, 
has been included as an Important Potential Risk in the RMP. Reports of positive neutralising antibody 
cases will be reported in future PSURs, and the potential risk of ‘Immunological Events – formation of 
neutralizing insulin antibodies’ will be reevaluated in each PSUR based on the case reports. The 
potential risk has also been reflected in section 4.4 of the SmPC.  
Cardiovascular safety was assessed, initially based on meta-analysis of independently confirmed, 
blindly adjudicated MACE events among the 16 therapeutic confirmatory IDeg + IDegAsp trials (HR 
1.10, 95% CI: [0.68; 1.77). In addition, an updated MACE analyses was submitted icluding a further 
three phase 3 trials (cut-off May 1, 2012); HR 1.13, 95% CI: [0.705; 1.797. The wide confidence 
interval reflects the low number of events. However, there were no differences in the distribution of 
cardiovascular events between treatment groups. Furthermore, there is no indication from non-clinical 
data or from what is known about other basal insulin analogues that IDeg/IDegAsp is associated with 
an increased risk of cardiovascular events. Also, a number of post-hoc sensitivity analyses of the MACE 
data all supported the result of the primary analysis. 
Few subjects had clinically significant changes in laboratory values, clinical examinations or ECG 
recordings (including QTc measurements) and there was no difference between treatment groups for 
any of these parameters. 
There were no major differences between treatment groups regarding the interaction between intrinsic 
factors and distribution of AEs and SAEs. Overall, subjects >65 years experienced a similar rate of AEs 
to those aged 18-65, and there were no clinically relevant differences between treatment groups. The 
number of patients >65 years (n=1303) and >75 years (n=153) is in accordance with the ICH E7 
guideline. Exposure to IDeg + IDeg/Asp in the subgroup of subjects with T1DM >75 years was low 
(n=13, PYE = 9) and may not have been adequate to address the safety of the product in these 
subjects. Therefore, “use in subjects with T1DM >75 years” has been addressed as Missing Information 
in the RMP. The recommendations for use in the elderly in the SmPC are considered adequate.  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 138/151 
 
 
 
 
The number of subjects with moderate renal impairment included in the clinical trials was limited 
precluding any firm conclusions regarding the safety profile of IDeg+IDegAsp in this population. 
Treatment in moderate renal impairment has therefore been included in the RMP as missing 
information. There were no consistent and/or clinically meaningful differences between treatment 
groups in the AE rate or rate of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes in subjects with T1DM and T2DM 
with mild renal impairment. The current wording in the SmPC recommends intensified glucose-
monitoring and adjustment of dosing when required in this patient population and at present this is 
considered adequate and appropriate. In the IDeg trials, the AE rate and the rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes was consistently higher in the IDeg group than in the comparator group for 
patients with T1DM and mild renal impairment. Hypoglycaemia is included as an identified risk in the 
RMP. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Overall, the results of the clinical studies demonstrate that the use of IDegAsp in patients with T1DM 
and T2DM as monotherapy or in combination with oral antidiabetic agents is generally safe and in line 
with the safety profile of other insulin analogues.  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan. 
Table 1.  Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
activities 
Important identified risks 
Hypoglycaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
SmPC, Product Label and Patient 
Information 
 
Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings and 
precautions for use’ 
  Omission of a meal or unplanned 
strenuous physical exercise may 
lead to hypoglycaemia. 
  Hypoglycaemia may occur if the 
insulin dose is too high in relation 
to the insulin requirement. 
  Patients, whose blood glucose 
control is greatly improved (e.g., by 
intensified insulin therapy), may 
experience a change in their usual 
warning symptoms of 
hypoglycaemia and must be 
advised accordingly. Usual warning 
Page 139/151 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
activities 
symptoms may be altered in 
patients with longstanding diabetes. 
  Concomitant illness, especially 
infections and fever, usually 
increase the patient’s insulin 
requirement. Concomitant diseases 
in the kidney, liver or diseases 
affecting the adrenal, pituitary or 
thyroid gland can require changes 
in the insulin dose. 
  As with all basal insulins or insulins 
with a basal component, their 
prolonged effect may delay 
recovery from hypoglycaemia. 
 
Section 4.5 ‘Interaction with other 
medicinal products and other forms of 
interaction’ 
  A number of medicinal products are 
known to interact with the glucose 
metabolism. 
  The following substances may 
reduce the insulin requirement: 
Oral anti-diabetic medicinal 
products, GLP-1 receptor agonists, 
monoamine oxidase inhibitors 
(MAOI), beta-blockers, angiotensin 
converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, 
salicylates, anabolic steroids and 
sulphonamides. 
  The following substances may 
increase the insulin requirement: 
Oral contraceptive, thiazides, 
glucocorticoids, thyroid hormones, 
sympathomimetics, growth 
hormones and danazol. 
  Beta-blocking agents may mask the 
symptoms of hypoglycaemia. 
  Octreotide/lanreotide may either 
increase or decrease the insulin 
requirement. 
  Alcohol may intensify or reduce the 
hypoglycaemic effect of insulin. 
 
Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable effects’ 
  The most frequently reported 
adverse reaction during treatment 
is hypoglycaemia. Hypoglycaemia 
may occur if the insulin dose is too 
high in relation to the insulin 
requirement. Severe hypoglycaemia 
may lead to unconsciousness 
and/or convulsions and may result 
in temporary or permanent 
impairment of brain function or 
even death. The symptoms of 
hypoglycaemia usually occur 
suddenly. They may include cold 
sweats, cool pale skin, fatigue, 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 140/151 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
activities 
nervousness or tremor, 
anxiousness, unusual tiredness or 
weakness, confusion, difficulty in 
concentration, drowsiness, 
excessive hunger, vision changes, 
headache, nausea and palpitation. 
 
Section 4.9 ‘Overdose’ 
  A specific overdose for insulin 
cannot be defined; however, 
hypoglycaemia may develop over 
sequential stages if a patient is 
dosed with more insulin than 
required. 
  Mild hypoglycaemic episodes can be 
treated by oral administration of 
glucose. It is therefore 
recommended that the patient 
always carries glucose containing 
products. 
  Severe hypoglycaemic episodes, 
where the patient is not able to 
treat himself, can be treated with 
glucagon (0.5 to 1 mg) given 
intramuscularly or subcutaneously 
by a trained person, or with glucose 
given intravenously by a health 
care professional. Glucose must be 
given intravenously, if the patient 
does not respond to glucagon within 
10 to 15 minutes. Upon regaining 
consciousness, administration of 
oral carbohydrates is recommended 
for the patient in order to prevent a 
relapse. 
SmPC, Product Label and Patient 
Information 
 
Section 4.3 ‘Contra-indications’ 
 
  Hypersensitivity to the active 
substances or to any of the 
excipients. 
Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable effects’ 
  With insulin preparations allergic 
reactions may occur. Immediate-
type allergic reactions to either 
insulin itself or the excipients may 
potentially be life-threatening. 
  With Ryzodeg hypersensitivity 
(manifested with swelling of tongue 
and lips, diarrhoea, nausea, 
tiredness and itching) and urticaria 
were reported rarely. 
Immunogenicity-
related events 
(allergic reactions) 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Important potential risks 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 141/151 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
Medication errors 
due to mix-up 
between Ryzodeg 
and bolus insulin  
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
(including structured follow-up 
questionnaire) 
Immunological 
events – formation 
of neutralising 
insulin antibodies 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Product differentiation strategy includes 
trade names, label text, colour branding 
of the carton, container label and 
cartridge holder, as well as tactile 
features. 
SmPC 
 
Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings and 
precautions for use’ 
  Avoidance of accidental mix-ups: 
Patients must visually verify the 
dialled units on the dose counter of 
the pen. Therefore, the requirement 
for patients to self-inject is that 
they can read the dose counter on 
the pen. Patients, who are blind or 
have poor vision, must be 
instructed to always get 
help/assistance from another 
person who has good vision and is 
trained in using the insulin device. 
Section 6.6 ‘Special precautions for 
disposal and other handling’ 
  The pre-filled pen (FlexTouch) is 
designed to be used with 
NovoFine/NovoTwist injection 
needles up to a length of 8 mm. It 
delivers 1–80 units in steps of 1 
unit. Detailed instructions 
accompanying the pre-filled pen 
must be followed. 
  Ryzodeg pre-filled pen (FlexTouch) 
is for use by one person only. The 
pre-filled pen must not be refilled. 
 
Patient Information  
 
Start by checking your pen to make 
sure that it contains Ryzodeg 100 
units/ml, then look at the illustrations 
to get to know the different parts of 
your pen and needle. 
  Do not use your pen without proper 
training from your doctor or nurse. 
 
If you are blind or have poor 
eyesight, do not use this pen without 
help. Get help from a person with 
good eyesight who is trained to use 
the Ryzodeg FlexTouch pen. 
SmPC 
 
Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings and 
precautions for use’ 
  Insulin administration may cause 
insulin antibodies to form. In rare 
cases, the presence of such insulin 
antibodies may necessitate 
adjustment of the insulin dose in 
order to correct a tendency to 
hyper- or hypoglycaemia. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 142/151 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
activities 
Important missing information 
Pregnant and 
lactating women 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Children and 
adolescents <18 
years 
Routine pharmacovigilance and 
clinical trial 
SmPC, Product Label and Patient 
Information 
 
Section 4.6 ‘Fertility, Pregnancy and 
Lactation’: 
  There is no clinical experience from 
the use of Ryzodeg in pregnant 
women. Animal reproduction 
studies have not revealed any 
differences between insulin 
degludec and human insulin 
regarding embryotoxicity and 
teratogenicity. In general, 
intensified blood glucose control 
and monitoring of pregnant women 
with diabetes are recommended 
throughout pregnancy and when 
contemplating pregnancy. Insulin 
requirements usually fall in the first 
trimester and increase subsequently 
during the second and third 
trimester. After delivery, insulin 
requirements usually return rapidly 
to pre-pregnancy values. 
  There is no clinical experience with 
Ryzodeg during breast-feeding. In 
rats, insulin degludec was secreted 
in milk; the concentration in milk 
was lower than in plasma. It is 
unknown whether insulin 
degludec/insulin aspart is excreted 
in human milk. No metabolic effects 
are anticipated in the breast-fed 
newborn/infant. 
  Animal reproduction studies with 
insulin degludec have not revealed 
any adverse effects on fertility. 
SmPC, Product Label and Patient 
Information  
 
Section 4.2 ‘Posology and method of 
administration’ 
  The safety and efficacy of Ryzodeg 
in children and adolescents below 
18 years of age have not been 
established. Currently available 
data are described in Section 5.2 
but no recommendation on 
posology can be made. 
Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable effects’ 
  Ryzodeg has been administered to 
children and adolescents up to 18 
years of age for the investigation of 
pharmacokinetic properties (See 
Section 5.2). Safety and efficacy 
have not been investigated in 
children and adolescents. 
Section 5.2 ‘Pharmacokinetic 
properties’ 
 
 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 143/151 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
activities 
Patients with 
hepatic impairment 
Moderate and 
severe renal 
impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Elderly patients 
(>75 years) with 
T1DM 
Routine pharmacovigilance and 
clinical trial  
  The pharmacokinetic properties of 
Ryzodeg in type 1 diabetes mellitus 
were investigated in children (6–11 
years) and adolescents (12–17 
years) and compared to adults after 
single dose administration. Total 
exposure and peak concentration of 
insulin aspart are higher in children 
than in adults and are similar for 
adolescents and adults. The 
properties of Tresiba seen in adults 
are preserved in children and 
adolescents. Total exposure of 
Tresiba after single dose 
administration is higher in children 
and adolescents than in adults with 
type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
SmPC, Product Label and Patient 
Information 
 
Section 4.2 ‘Posology and method of 
 
 
administration’ 
  Ryzodeg can be used in renal and 
hepatic impaired patients. As with 
all insulin products, glucose 
monitoring is to be intensified and 
the insulin dose adjusted on an 
individual basis (see Section 5.2). 
Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable effects’ 
  Based on results from clinical trials, 
the frequency, type and severity of 
adverse reactions observed in 
elderly patients and in patients with 
renal or hepatic impairment do not 
indicate any differences to the 
broader experience in the general 
population. 
Section 5.2 ‘Pharmacokinetic 
properties’ 
  There are no clinical relevant 
differences in the pharmacokinetics 
of Ryzodeg between elderly and 
younger patients, between races or 
between healthy subjects and 
patients with renal or hepatic 
impairment. 
SmPC, Product Label and Patient 
Information 
 
Section 4.2 ‘Posology and method of 
administration’ 
  Ryzodeg can be used in elderly 
patients. As with all insulin 
products, glucose-monitoring is to 
be intensified and the insulin dose 
adjusted on an individual basis (see 
section 5.2). 
Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable effects’ 
  Based on results from clinical trials, 
the frequency, type and severity of 
adverse reactions observed in 
 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 144/151 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
activities 
elderly patients and in patients with 
renal or hepatic impairment do not 
indicate any differences to the 
broader experience in the general 
population. 
Section 5.1 ‘Pharmacodynamic 
 
properties’ 
  There is no clinically relevant 
difference in the pharmacodynamics 
of Ryzodeg between elderly and 
younger subjects. 
SmPC, Product Label and Patient 
Information 
 
Section 4.5 ‘Interaction with other 
medicinal products and other forms of 
interaction’ 
  The following substances may 
reduce insulin requirement: oral 
anti-diabetic medicinal products, 
glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
receptor agonists, monoamino 
oxidase inhibitors, beta-blockers, 
angiotensin converting enzyme 
inhibitors, salicylates, anabolic 
steroids and sulphonamides. 
Co-administration 
with GLP-1 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities:  
NN1250-3948: A trial comparing 
the efficacy and safety of adding 
liraglutide versus addition of 
insulin aspart with the largest 
meal to insulin degludec, both in  
combination with metformin, in 
subjects with type 2 diabetes 
qualifying for treatment 
intensification  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
2.8.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
The IDegAsp consists of 30% IAsp and 70% IDeg, IDeg being a new long-acting insulin analogue. At 
the target tissues, IDeg and IAsp monomers bind to and activate insulin receptors triggering the 
same cellular effects as human insulin such as promoting glucose uptake as confirmed by the non-
clinical data. The mechanism of action of IDeg is similar to that of other insulins, only with a slightly 
lower activity and prolonged duration of action. 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The pharmacodynamic properties of IDegAsp has been adequately characterised in a well-designed 
program. IDegAsp has been shown to have a clear distinction between the short-acting component and 
the long-acting component, which has a flatter profile than currently available long-acting insulins. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 145/151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, the duration of action of the long-acting component extends well over 24 hours at doses 
of 0.4 U/kg thereby allowing once daily dosing. The potency of the basal component IDeg has been 
shown to be similar to that of IGlar, thus one unit of IDeg corresponds to one unit of IGlar. This may 
be extrapolated to other insulin analogues and human insulin. 
In a dedicated PD study, it was shown that the response to hypoglycaemia with IDeg is not 
significantly altered when compared to IGlar. This is reassuring considering the long duration of action 
with a potential risk for protracted hypoglycaemia. Less glucose was needed to reverse the 
hypoglycaemia induced by IDeg, the clinical relevance of this finding is unknown.  
There are indications that the long-acting component has less intra-individual variability than IGlar, the 
clinical benefit of this finding, however, remains to be seen.  
The efficacy of IDegAsp has been investigated in five confirmatory studies, one in T1DM patients and 
four in T2DM patients. The T1DM trial included 548 subjects and 1866 subjects were included in the 
T2DM trials. All trials were of 26 weeks duration and the T1DM trial had a 26 week extension. Data on 
flexible dosing based on clinical studies with the basal component IDeg has also been provided. In 
these studies IDeg was administered with alternating narrow (8–12 hours) and wide (36–40 hours) 
dosing intervals. The clinical study program is considered adequate both with regards to study size, 
duration and design and was generally well conducted.  
The populations recruited are considered representative for the target population. European patients 
were well represented (about 30 % of patients) both in the T1DM trial and the T2DM trials. The pretrial 
treatments with regards to insulin reflect the current treatment practice. T2DM groups were well 
balanced with regards to OAD treatment and patients were treated with adequate doses pretrial to 
ensure that these patients were true treatment failures. Co-administration of all OADs with the 
exception of insulin secretagogues, α-glucosidase inhibitors and GLP-1 agonists were allowed in the 
T2DM studies. The lack of data regarding the latter should be reflected in the SPC. 
The HbA1c lowering effect of IDegAsp has been adequately shown across trials, well fulfilling the non-
inferiority criteria. Adequate lowering of HbA1c (0.7-1.7 %) was achieved in all trials, taking the 
baseline HbA1c into account. In the T1DM trial, effect was maintained over the 52 week study period. 
Secondary endpoints generally supported the findings. The low intra-individual variability observed in 
the PD studies did not transform into less fluctuation in the interstitial glucose profiles. No clinically 
relevant changes or differences between groups were observed in the patient related outcomes. 
Since the studies were of treat-to-target design with the aim of showing non-inferiority against 
comparators, focus was to show a difference in hypoglycaemia pattern. The lower cut-off of 3.1 mmol/l 
glucose for identifying hypoglycaemia was applied throughout the studies, which is in line with the 
currently adopted guideline. Hypoglycaemias were also recorded applying the stricter cut-off of 
3.9 mmol/l, in line with the scientific advice given; these data were in line with the data using the 
lower cut-off.  
In the T1DM trial, there was a trend towards fewer confirmed hypoglycaemias over time in the 
IDegAsp treated group. In patients with T2DM, treatment with insulin degludec/insulin aspart once 
daily (trials 3590, 3593) initial data entailed significantly more confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
compared to treatment with IGlar (estimated treatment ratio 2.17 [1.59; 2.94]95%CI and 1.43 [1.07; 
1.92]95%CI in Trials 3590 and 3593, respectively) without improved glycaemic control. It could, 
however be shown that the higher rates of hypoglycaemias with IDegAsp in studies 3590 and 3593 
was temporally related to the rapid-acting component of IDegAsp. New data provided from trial 3896, 
where IDegAsp was administered once daily showed no difference in overall hypoglycaemia rates 
between IDegAsp and the comparator IGlar. The data underscores the importance of taking IDegAsp 
together with the largest meal of the day. Lower rates of confirmed hypoglycaemias were observed in 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 146/151 
 
 
 
 
T2DM patients treated with a BID regimen. The finding of a lower rate of nocturnal confirmed 
hypoglycaemias was consistent over the study program. However, due to the differences observed 
between the T1DM and T2DM populations no claims on an overall reduction of the risk of 
hypoglycaemia can be made. 
A weight increase is to be expected when HbA1c is lowered by intensified insulin treatment. Compared 
to BIAsp weight increase was lower with IDegAsp. Compared to both IDet and IGlar, weight increase 
was higher with IDegAsp. In the case of IDet this may be explained by the fact that IDet has been 
shown to result in lower weight increase than other insulins. When compared to IGlar, the study design 
of trial 3590 resulted in higher doses with IDegAsp than IGlar which explains the observed difference 
in body weight. No difference in body weight gain was observed in trials where doses were similar for 
IDegAsp and IGlar at end of trial.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
The Applicant proposed that the reduced variability observed with the basal component IDeg compared 
to IGlar in the PD studies would transform into less hypo- and hyperglycaemia. The data indicate a 
lower risk of hypoglycaemia, especially nocturnal hypoglycaemia, with IDeg; however, the fluctuations 
in interstitial glucose levels were not different with IDegAsp compared to IGlar. The clinical relevance 
of the lower variability is therefore debatable, since the lower occurrence of nocturnal hypoglycaemias 
may well be due to the flatter PD profile observed with IDeg. Although the data on the reduced 
variability is included in the SmPC, no claims can currently be made on the significance of this 
characteristic. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
In the therapeutic confirmatory trials with IDegAsp the most commonly reported AEs in both treatment 
groups were nasopharyngitis (IDegAsp: 14.7 % vs. comparator 11.5%), headache (IDegAsp: 6.7% vs. 
comparator 6.4%), upper respiratory tract infection (IDegAsp: 6.6% vs. comparator 6.7%) and 
diarrhoea (IDegAsp 3.9% vs. comparator 4.4%). 
Hypoglycaemic episodes were only recorded as AEs if they fulfilled the definition of a SAE or severe 
hypoglycaemia (according to the CHMP guideline for the Clinical investigation of medicinal products in 
the treatment or prevention of diabetes mellitus, CHMP/EWP/1080/00 Rev. 1). Overall, the rate of 
serious and severe hypoglycaemic episodes was somewhat lower in subjects treated with IDegAsp than 
in the comparators.  The combined rate of serious and severe hypoglycaemic episodes in subjects with 
T1DM was 14.6% and 26.6 events per 100 PYE with IDegAsp vs. 21.7% and 46.0 events per 100 PYE 
with comparators. In subjects with T2DM the corresponding figures were 1.2% and 3.5 events per 100 
PYE vs. 2.8 % and 7.6 events per 100 PYE, respectively. This was true also for episodes of severe 
hypoglycaemia and nocturnal severe hypoglycaemia and for serious hypoglycaemic events (IDegAsp 
6.9% vs. comparator 7.7%). The duration of severe hypoglycaemic episodes did not differ between 
treatment groups.  
Despite positive effects on nocturnal hypoglycaemia with IDegAsp, in both T2DM trials it was observed 
that comparable glycaemic control was achieved with a higher rate of overall confirmed hypoglycaemia 
when IDegAsp was dosed once daily and compared to IGlar. It could, however, be shown that the 
higher rate of hypoglycaemia was due to the short-acting component (IAsp) and that the 
hypoglycaemia rates were comparable to those observed for IGlar when IDegAsp was administered 
with the main meal. Hypoglycaemic events are listed in the RMP as an important identified risk. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 147/151 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of allergic reactions was low and similar in both treatment groups (IDeg+IDegAsp: 0.8% 
vs. comparators: 0.5%). The most common allergic reaction was urticaria (IDeg+IDegAsp 0.4% vs. 
comparator: 0.2%).  
Allergic reactions are listed in the RMP as an important identified risk. 
Injection site reactions and lipodystrophy were of mild or moderate severity and the rate was lower in 
the IDegAsp group than in the comparators (IDegAsp: 5.1 events per 100 PYE vs. comparator 10 
events per 100 PYE, respectively).  
The incidence of peripheral oedema was comparable in both IDegAsp and comparators arms (1.9% vs. 
2.2%, respectively). The majority of events of peripheral oedema were mild in severity. 
Cardiovascular safety was assessed, initially based on meta-analysis of independently confirmed, 
blindly adjudicated MACE events among the 16 therapeutic confirmatory IDeg + IDegAsp trials (HR 
1.10, 95% CI: [0.68; 1.77]). In addition, an updated MACE analyses was submitted in response to the 
second D180 LoQ including a further three phase 3 trials (cut-off May 1, 2012); HR 1.13, 95% CI: 
0.705; 1.797.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The development of specific IDeg antibodies or insulin cross reacting antibodies was generally low in 
both treatment groups (IDegAsp n=86, comparator n=139). No influence of antibodies on glycosylated 
haemoglobin (HbA1c) and dose at the end of trial was detected. However, based on the low number of 
subjects, it is not possible to draw any firm conclusions regarding the potential influence of insulin 
antibodies on the product efficacy and safety. Therefore, this potential risk has been included in the 
RMP. 
Few very elderly subjects with T1DM were included in the clinical trial programme, making it difficult to 
draw any firm conclusions regarding the safety profile in this population. However, the overall number 
of subjects >75 years was adequate, and no major differences in the safety profile between subjects 
with T1DM and T2DM are expected. Based on this, treatment in very elderly subjects (>75 years) with 
T1DM has been included as missing information in the RMP. Dosing and monitoring in the elderly 
population is addressed in the proposed SmPC and this is considered adequate. 
Also, very few subjects with moderate and severe renal impairment were included in the clinical trials 
(IDeg+IDegAsp n=65), therefore, there is an uncertainty regarding the safety in these patients, and 
moderate and severe renal impairment has been included as missing information in the RMP. 
Recommendations for use in subjects with renal impairment are included in the SmPC and are 
considered adequate. 
There has been an on-going debate regarding the potential relationship between insulin analogues and 
an increased risk of cancer, possibly mediated by increased IGF-1 receptor activation or by sustained 
signalling by the insulin receptor. In non-clinical studies IDeg has been demonstrated to have a 
relatively low IGF-1 receptor binding affinity compared to insulin receptor binding, and the balance 
between the metabolic and proliferative actions of IDeg is similar to that of human insulin. Also, IDeg 
was not associated with any treatment related changes in the occurrence of hyperplastic or neoplastic 
lesions in the pre-clinical studies. During IDeg and IDegAsp clinical development the overall incidence 
of malignant neoplasms was low and there was no difference between treatment groups in the 
proportion of patients developing a malignancy. However, colon cancer was numerically more frequent 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 148/151 
 
 
 
 
in the IDeg+IDegAsp group than in the comparators, even if the number of events was low and the 
rate was similar to that seen in the general diabetic population. Thus, events of colon cancer will be 
monitored in future PSURs. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The pharmacodynamic profile has been adequately characterised. IDegAsp provides a distinctive peak 
through the short-acting component and a basal component with a flatter profile compared to currently 
available long-acting insulins. The HbA1c lowering effect has been sufficiently demonstrated 
throughout the clinical program. In this respect, IDegAsp is comparable to other available insulins. The 
data from the clinical program indicate that the risk of especially nocturnal hypoglycaemias is lower 
with IDegAsp treatment in patients with type 1 diabetes. Since hypoglycaemia is a major obstacle 
when trying to obtain good glycaemic control, this is a finding of importance. Due to the long duration 
of action, IDegAsp also allows once daily dosing and a more flexible dosing, which is an advantage 
from the patient’s perspective. In patients with T2DM, treatment with insulin degludec/insulin aspart 
once daily (trials 3590, 3593) initial data entailed significantly more confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
compared to treatment with IGlar (estimated treatment ratio 2.17 [1.59; 2.94]95%CI and 1.43 [1.07; 
1.92]95%CI in Trials 3590 and 3593, respectively) without improved glycaemic control. It could, 
however, be shown that this increase was associated with the short-acting component (IAsp) and that 
the hypoglycaemia rates were comparable to those observed for IGlar when IDegAsp was administered 
with the main meal, as currently recommended in the SmPC. Lower rates of confirmed and nocturnal  
hypoglycaemias were observed in T2DM patients treated with a BID regimen. 
Overall, the results of the clinical studies demonstrate that the use of IDegAsp in patients with T1DM 
and T2DM as monotherapy or in combination with oral antidiabetic agents is generally safe and in line 
with the safety profile of other insulin analogues. No unexpected AEs were identified, and the reporting 
rate was generally similar between treatment groups.  
Data on very elderly subjects (>75 years) and subjects with moderate renal impairment are limited 
and should be followed post-marketing. These populations have been addressed adequately in the 
SmPC. Furthermore, the potential effect that insulin antibodies may have on the product efficacy and 
safety remains to be fully established. Therefore, antibody positive cases will be closely monitored 
post-marketing and reported in PSURs. 
Regarding CV safety, the wide confidence interval in the MACE analysis, reflects the low number of 
events. However, there were no differences in the distribution of cardiovascular events between 
treatment groups. Furthermore, there is no indication from non-clinical data or from what is known 
about other basal insulin analogues that IDeg/IDegAsp is associated with an increased risk of 
cardiovascular events. Also, a number of post-hoc sensitivity analyses of the MACE data all supported 
the result of the primary analysis. It is therefore agreed that there are no indications of increased CV 
risk. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
In view of all the above considerations the CHMP concluded that the benefit risk balance in patients 
with type 1 and type 2diabetes is considered positive. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 149/151 
 
 
 
 
4. Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Ryzodeg in the treatment diabetes mellitus in adults is favourable and 
therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System and PSUR cycle 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in Edition 3 (version 5) of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow the standard requirements until otherwise agreed by the 
CHMP.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that insulin degludec, as part of insulin degludec/insulin aspart, is qualified as a new active 
substance. 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 150/151 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan P/96/2011 and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary 
of Product Characteristics (SmPC). 
Ryzodeg 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 151/151 
 
 
 
 
