25 June 2015 
EMA/530806/2015  
Procedure Management and Committees Support Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Ryzodeg  
insulin degludec / insulin aspart 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002499/P46/005 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
On 7 April 2015, the MAH submitted completed paediatric study for Ryzodeg, in accordance with Article 
46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
These data are also submitted as part of the PIP agreed upon with EMA (PDCO), which is part of the EU 
requirement for marketing authorization of IDegAsp. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that  “A trial investigating the efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/insulin aspart 
once daily plus insulin aspart for the remaining meals versus insulin detemir once or twice daily plus 
meal time insulin aspart in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus” (NN5401-3816) is 
part of a clinical development program (PIP). The extension application consisting of the full relevant 
data package (i.e containing several studies) is expected to be submitted.A line listing of all the 
concerned studies is annexed. 
1.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) 
Insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp: trade name Ryzodeg) is a co-formulation of the long-acting 
insulin degludec (IDeg), and rapid-acting insulin aspart (IAsp)[NovoRapid]. The IDegAsp co-
formulation used in therapeutic confirmatory trials consists of 70% IDeg and 30% IAsp. In the co-
formulation of IAsp and IDeg, the long-acting IDeg and the rapid-acting IAsp are combined in one 
injection, with each component acting independently. 
IDegAsp in children 
A clinical pharmacology trial (NN5401-1982) investigated the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
properties of IDegAsp (0.5 units/kg) after a single dose in children (6–11 years) and adolescents (12–
17 years) in comparison to adults (18–65 years) with T1DM. This trial was conducted in agreement 
with the EMA Paediatric Committee (PDCO) as a binding element of the Paediatric Investigation Plan 
(PIP). With IDegAsp, the between-subject variability in IAsp and IDeg exposure was higher in children 
than in adults. However, insulin exposure has previously been shown to depend on age, and the 
results underline the importance of individual dose adjustment for IDegAsp, as with all other insulin 
products. Following a single dose, total exposure to the IAsp component in IDegAsp in the first 12 
hours (AUCIAsp,0-12h,single dose) and maximum concentration (Cmax,IAsp,single dose) were higher in children 
than in adults, and were similar for adolescents and adults. Total exposure to the IDeg component in 
IDegAsp (AUCIDeg,0-∞,single dose) tended to be higher for children than adults, and was similar for 
adolescents and adults. Total glucose-lowering effect of IDegAsp after a standard meal (AUCPG-baseline,0-
6h,meal,single dose) was similar in children, adolescents and adults. IDegAsp was well tolerated and no 
safety issues were identified in this trial. 
1.3.  Clinical aspects 
1.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
“A trial investigating the efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/insulin aspart once daily plus 
insulin aspart for the remaining meals versus insulin detemir once or twice daily plus meal time 
insulin aspart in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus” (NN5401-3816) 
1.3.2.  Clinical study 
A trial investigating the efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/insulin aspart once daily plus insulin 
aspart for the remaining meals versus insulin detemir once or twice daily plus meal time insulin aspart 
in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus (NN5401-3816) 
Description 
Trial 3816 was a 16-week multi-national, multi-centre, open-label, two-arm, parallel group, 
randomised, treat-to-target, efficacy and safety trial in children and adolescents with T1DM between 1 
and 18 years of age.  
The trial was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and International Conference on 
Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice. 
Methods 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the trial was to confirm the efficacy of IDegAsp administered OD plus meal-
time IAsp for the remaining meals in controlling glycaemia with respect to change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment. This was done by comparing the difference in change from 
baseline in HbA1c between IDegAsp + meal-time IAsp for the remaining meals and IDet + meal-time 
IAsp to a non-inferiority limit of 0.4%, and if non-inferiority was confirmed, to a superiority limit of 
0%. 
The secondary objective was to compare the efficacy and safety between the two treatment groups. 
Study design 
Trial 3816 was a 16-week multi-national, multi-centre, open-label, two-arm, parallel group, 
randomised, treat-to-target, efficacy and safety trial in children and adolescents with T1DM between 1 
and 18 years of age. Subjects received one of the following treatment regimens: 
• 
• 
IDegAsp group: IDegAsp OD with a main meal + bolus IAsp for the remaining meals 
IDet group: IDet OD or twice daily (BID) + bolus IAsp at all meals. 
Following screening, the subjects were randomised 1:1 to the treatment groups and stratified by age: 
children 1-5 years; children 6-11 years; and adolescents 12-17 years. 
The total trial duration for the individual subjects was approximately 18 weeks (Figure 1). The trial 
included a screening visit (visit 1), followed by a 16-week randomised treatment period and a follow-
up visit (visit 19) 7-12 days after the last treatment visit (visit 18). 
 
Figure 1 Trial design 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The general study design was adequate. A randomised, open-label trial was chosen since the two 
treatment regimens require different number of daily injections. This is acceptable. The trial design 
was agreed upon with EMA (PDCO) as a binding element of the PIP for IDegAsp. Previous studies in 
adult T1DM patients comparing IDegAsp with IDet showed that HbA1c levels had stabilised after 12 to 
16 weeks of treatment. The study duration is therefore considered adequate in the paediatric 
population. 
Sample size 
As this was a non-inferiority trial, sample size was determined such that the anticipated power was at 
least 80% in the evaluation of the PP analysis set. In previous phase 3 trials, in insulin treated children 
and adolescents with T1DM, less than 9% of the randomised subjects were excluded from the PP 
analysis set. In this trial, an estimate of 10% was used and sample size was ceiled in the FAS to have 
integer sample size for each group that adheres exactly to the group allocation weights (1:1). Hence 
the total number of randomised subjects was to be at least 346 subjects in order to have at least 80% 
power in the evaluation of the PP analysis set. 
Study population 
A total of 346 subjects were planned for enrolment. Subjects were aged 1 to < 18 years at 
randomisation and diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. In accordance with the approved PIP, at least 60 
randomised subjects had to be younger than 6 years at inclusion. Additionally at least 30% and not 
more than 70% were to be girls. 
Inclusion criteria 
Important inclusion criteria included: 
• 
Informed consent 
•  Subjects diagnosed with type 1 diabetes mellitus 
•  Age: 1 to <18 years 
•  Ongoing daily treatment with insulin (any regimen including continuous s.c. insulin infusion) for at 
least 3 months prior to visit 1 
•  Total daily dose of insulin: ≤2 units/kg 
•  HbA1c ≤11.0% 
•  Ability and willingness to adhere to the protocol 
 
Exclusion criteria 
Important exclusion criteria included: 
•  Known hypoglycaemic unawareness or recurrent severe hypoglycaemic events as judged by the 
investigator 
•  More than 1 episode of diabetic ketoacidosis requiring hospitalisation within the 3 months prior to 
screening 
•  Any chronic disorder or significant concomitant disease which, in the investigator’s opinion, might 
have jeopardised the subject’s safety or compliance with the protocol 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria were adequate. Due to the rise in the incidence of T1DM noted in 
many countries, with a disproportionately greater increase in children under 5 years, inclusion of the 
very young age groups in this trial was required by EMA (PDCO).  
Treatments 
At visit 2 subjects discontinued their current diabetes treatment and were to be randomised into one of 
two treatment groups: 
• 
• 
IDegAsp group: IDegAsp OD with a main meal + bolus IAsp for the remaining meals 
IDet group: IDet OD or twice daily (BID) + bolus IAsp at all meals. 
At randomisation, each subject’s total daily insulin dose was to be reduced by 20%. During the trial 
treatment period, all subjects were titrated on an individual basis according to an insulin titration 
guideline protocol and aim to adjust the basal-bolus ratio to be between 50:50 and 30:70.  
IDegAsp was to be administered subcutaneously in the thigh, upper arm (deltoid area) or abdomen OD 
in connection with a main meal. The dosing time could be moved to a different main meal at any time 
during the trial. 
IDet was to be administered subcutaneously according to local labelling. Subjects randomised into the 
IDet treatment group continued with their pre-trial dosing scheme (OD or BID) and were allowed to 
switch from OD to BID dosing. IDet is not currently approved for children below the age of 2 years and 
therefore in this trial IDet was used under careful medical supervision for this age group. No 
unexpected safety issues were identified in the trial population. 
IAsp was to be administered subcutaneously according to local labelling as mealtime insulin, 2−4 times 
daily in subjects randomised to IDet and 1−3 times daily for subjects randomised to IDegAsp. IAsp is 
not currently approved for children below the age of 2 years and therefore in this trial IAsp was used 
under careful medical supervision for this age group.  
Rapporteur’s comment 
The choice of comparator and bolus insulin is acceptable. Both IDet and IAsp are currently not 
approved for use below the age of 2 years, however limited data is available from other clinical trials 
and no safety concerns have arisen from these data. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint 
Change from baseline in HbA1c (%) after 16 weeks of treatment. 
Secondary endpoints 
•  Change from baseline in FPG after 16 weeks of treatment 
•  SMPG measurements (4-point profiles) obtained throughout the trial for dose adjustments 
o  Mean PG before meals and before bedtime after 16 weeks of treatment 
o  Within subject variability as measured by the CV% after 16 weeks of treatment 
•  SMPG measurements (8-point profiles) 
o  8-point profiles after 16 weeks of treatment 
o  Mean of the 8-point profiles after 16 weeks of treatment 
o  Fluctuation in the 8-point profiles after 16 weeks of treatment 
o  Prandial PG increment from 8-point profiles after 16 weeks of treatment 
Safety endpoints 
The key safety parameters were insulin dose, AEs, incidence of hypoglycaemia, incidence of 
hyperglycaemia, vital signs, safety laboratory parameters and body weight/BMI. 
The definitions of hypoglycaemic episodes from the International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent 
Diabetes (ISPAD) and the American Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines were used (Figure 2). 
Figure 2 Classification of hypoglycaemia according to ADA/ISPAD 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The endpoints chosen were adequate and relevant. 
Statistical Methods 
Allocation of subjects to treatment groups 
The subjects were randomly allocated to one of two treatment groups, either IDegAsp in combination 
with IAsp or IDet in combination with IAsp. Randomisation was stratified according to three age 
 
groups: 1-5 years; 6-11 years; and 12-17 years. Stratification was employed to ensure an 
approximately equal distribution of subjects between the treatment groups within each age group. 
Analysis sets 
The full analysis set (FAS) included all randomised subjects. In exceptional cases subjects from the 
FAS could be eliminated. In such cases the elimination was to be justified and documented. The 
statistical evaluation of the FAS followed the intention-to-treat principle and subjects contributed to the 
evaluation “as randomised”. 
The per protocol (PP) analysis set consisted of all subjects in the FAS who fulfilled the following 
criteria: 
•  Have not violated any inclusion criteria 
•  Have not fulfilled any exclusion criteria 
•  Have non-missing HbA1c at screening or randomization 
•  Have at least one non-missing HbA1c after 12 weeks of exposure 
•  Have at least 12 weeks of exposure. 
The safety analysis set (SAS) included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the trial product or its 
comparator. Subjects in the safety set contributed to the evaluation “as treated”. 
Two subjects in the FAS (1 in each group) did not receive trial product and were therefore excluded 
from the SAS. Seventeen (17) subjects in the FAS (8 in the IDegAsp group and 9 in the IDet group) 
were excluded from the PP analysis because they did not have a valid assessment of HbA1c after 12 
weeks. Twelve (12) subjects in the FAS (5 in the IDegAsp group and 7 in the IDet group) did not 
contribute information to the HbA1c analysis after 16 weeks of treatment. 
Statistical analysis 
Primary endpoint 
All observed HbA1c measurements available post-randomisation at scheduled measurement times 
were analysed using a mixed model for repeated measurements (MMRM) with an unstructured 
covariance matrix. The model included treatment, sex, region, age group and visit as factors and 
baseline HbA1c as covariate. Interactions between visit and all factors and covariates were also 
included in the model. Region was a factor with 3 levels: EU including Russia and Israel; North 
America; Other. Age group was a factor with the following three levels: 1-5 years; 6-11 years; 12-17 
years. 
The model was fitted to all the data simultaneously (all treatment groups) and the relevant treatment 
differences were estimated. 
Non-inferiority was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval 
(CI) was below or equal to 0.4% or equivalent if the p-value for the one-sided test of the null-
hypothesis (H0) against the alternative hypothesis (HA), 
H0: D > 0.4% against H A: D ≤ 0.4%, 
was less than or equal to 2.5%, where D was the mean treatment difference after 16 weeks of 
treatment (IDegAsp minus IDet). 
If non-inferiority was confirmed, the superiority of the IDegAsp over IDet was to be investigated. 
Superiority was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI, which was 
calculated using the FAS, was below 0%. The PP analysis was considered supportive. 
Sensitivity analysis 
The primary efficacy analysis was repeated on the PP analysis set and the set of all completed 
subjects. 
The following sensitivity analyses were performed using the FAS only. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment was analysed using an analysis of variance 
method with treatment, sex, region and age group as fixed factors and baseline HbA1c as covariate 
and where the missing values were imputed using the Last Observation Carried Forward method. 
All observed HbA1c measurements available post-randomisation at scheduled measurement times 
were also analysed with an MMRM with an unstructured covariance matrix where the only factors were 
treatment and visit and baseline HbA1c was included as a covariate. The two interactions between visit 
and treatment and visit and baseline HbA1c were also included in the model. 
Secondary endpoints 
All observed FPG measurements available post-randomisation at scheduled measurement times were 
analysed using an MMRM with an unstructured covariance matrix. The model included treatment, sex, 
region, age group and visit as factors and baseline FPG as covariate. Interactions between visit and all 
factors and covariates were also included in the model. 
All observed mean of before meals and all observed before bedtime PG values available post-
randomisation at scheduled measurement times were analysed separately with a MMRM with an 
unstructured covariance matrix. The model included treatment, sex, region, age group and visit as 
factors and baseline response value as covariate. Interactions between visit and all factors and 
covariates were also included in the model. 
The logarithmically transformed SMPG values available before breakfast after 16 weeks were analysed 
as repeated measures in a linear mixed model with treatment, sex, region and age group as fixed 
factors and subject as random factor. The model assumed independent within- and betweensubject 
errors with variances depending on treatment. Within-subject variability as measured by CV% for a 
treatment could be calculated from the corresponding residual variance σ2 as  
.  
The confidence interval for the CV ratio between treatments was calculated using the delta method. 
All observed mean and fluctuation in the 8-point profile and prandial PG increments available post-
randomisation at scheduled measurements times were analysed with an MMRM with an unstructured 
covariance matrix. The model included treatment, sex, region, age group and visit as factors and 
baseline values of the response as covariate. Interactions between visit and all factors and covariates 
were also included in the model. Fluctuation in the 8-point profile was logarithmically transferred 
before analysis. 
All observed 8-point profile (SMPG) measurements available post-randomisation at scheduled 
measurements times were analysed with an MMRM with an unstructured covariance matrix. The model 
included treatment, sex, region, age group, time-point within the 8-point profile and visit as factors 
and corresponding baseline SMPG as covariate. Interactions between visit and all factors and 
covariates were also included in the model and, in addition, interaction between treatment and visit 
and time-point was included. This was a post-hoc analysis. 
The number of treatment emergent hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed separately using a negative 
binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period for which a 
hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, 
sex, region and age group as fixed factors. Separate analyses were performed for severe episodes and 
confirmed episodes considering all episodes and nocturnal episodes. 
The number of treatment emergent hyperglycaemic episodes and the number of treatment emergent 
hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis were analysed separately using a negative binomial regression 
model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period for which an episode was 
considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, sex, region and age group as 
fixed factors. 
Other safety parameters were summarised descriptively. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The statistical methods were adequate. The chosen non-inferiority margin is generous as currently a 
margin of 0.3 % is recommended. However, the final assessment depends on the actual outcome of 
the data. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 362 children and adolescents were randomised, of whom 360 received at least one dose of 
trial product and 342 completed the trial. Of those randomised, 82 were aged 1-5 years, 122 were 
aged 6-11 years and 158 were aged 12-17 years (Table 2). 
Table 1 Subject disposition – summary 
 
 
Table 2 Subject disposition 
Rapporteur’s comment 
Overall 94.5 % of patients completed the study. Withdrawals were evenly distributed between 
treatments and age groups. 
Baseline data 
Demographics and baseline characteristics 
The trial population consisted of children and adolescents with T1DM aged from 1 to less than 18 
years. Females comprised 51.7% of the trial population. Approximately 32% of the subjects were from 
the U.S, 13% were from the Russian Federation and 9% were from Israel. The majority of subjects 
(93.1%) were ‘White’. The majority of subjects (92.3%) were not Hispanic or Latino. 
The demographics and baseline diabetes characteristics at week 0 were comparable between the 
treatment groups apart from slight differences in mean FPG and mean duration of diabetes (Table 3). 
For the overall study population, the mean (standard deviation [SD]) FPG at baseline was slightly 
higher in the IDegAsp group than in the IDet group: 8.6 (4.4) mmol/L versus 8.1 (4.2) mmol/L, 
respectively. The mean (SD) duration of diabetes was slightly higher in the IDegAsp group than in the 
IDet group: 4.4 (3.7) years versus 3.8 (3.2) years, respectively. 
 
Table 3 Baseline and diabetes characteristics - descriptive statistics - full analysis 
set 
Diabetic complications were overall similar in the treatment groups. In total, 14 (3.9%) subjects had 
diabetic complications at screening: 9 (2.5%) subjects had diabetic neuropathy, 4 (1.1%) subjects had 
microalbuminuria and 1 (0.3%) subject was diagnosed with cataract diabetic. There were 5 events of 
diabetic complications in 5 subjects within the IDegAsp group and 9 events of diabetic complications in 
9 subjects within the IDet group. 
At the time of inclusion in the trial, 92.0% of subjects were using basal + bolus therapy. The most 
commonly used basal insulins were IDet (45.3%) and insulin glargine (40.6%). The most commonly 
used bolus insulin was IAsp (58.6%). 
 
 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The baseline characteristics were generally well balanced between groups. Notably, only one child 
below the age of 2 years was included (IDet). Duration of diabetes was slightly longer in the IDegAsp 
treated group, however, numerically more diabetes complications were reported in the IDet treated 
group. 
Efficacy results 
Primary endpoint 
IDegAsp OD + IAsp effectively maintained glycaemic control and was non-inferior to IDet + IAsp in 
terms of change from baseline in HbA1c, with an estimated mean treatment difference (IDegAsp OD − 
IDet) of −0.04%-points [−0.23; 0.15]95% CI (Table 4). Superiority was not confirmed.  
Table 4 HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment - primary statistical analysis – full 
analysis set 
After 16 weeks of treatment, the observed mean (SD) HbA1c was 7.9% (1.2) with IDegAsp OD + IAsp 
and 7.8% (1.3) with IDet + IAsp (Figure 3). Within both the IDegAsp and the IDet treatment group, 
the trend for HbA1c was similar in all age groups, with a minor reduction from baseline to week 16. 
 
Figure 3 HbA1c (%) by treatment week - mean plots (upper panel: all subjects; 
lower panel: age groups) 
Sensitivity analyses were performed and all sensitivity analysis showed an estimated mean treatment 
difference in line with the main analysis and supported the conclusion of non-inferiority. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
Both treatments resulted in a reduction of HbA1c compared to baseline and non-inferiority was 
demonstrated. The upper limit of the CI was 0.15 which is well within both the pre-defined non-
inferiority margin of 0.4 % and the currently recommended non-inferiority margin of 0.3 %. 
A similar trend for HbA1c reduction was observed in all age groups irrespective of treatment. 
Sensitivity analyses were all in line with the primary analysis, thus the outcome appears robust. 
Secondary endpoints 
Fasting plasma glucose 
After 16 weeks of treatment, FPG was 8.4 mmol/L with IDegAsp OD + IAsp and 8.3 mmol/L with IDet 
+ IAsp. The observed mean change from baseline at week 16 was −0.3 mmol/L with IDegAsp OD + 
IAsp and −0.1 mmol/L with IDet + IAsp. The estimated mean treatment difference (IDegAsp OD – 
IDet) was not statistically significant, 0.31 mmol/L [−0.70; 1.33]95%CI mmol/L. 
 
Within the IDegAsp treatment group mean FPG followed the overall trend (as seen for all subjects) 
from baseline to week 16 in children 1-5 years and adolescents 12-17 years, and tended to increase in 
children 6-11 years, which was caused by a few outliers with elevated FPG levels at week 16. 
Within the IDet treatment group mean FPG followed the overall trend (as seen for all subjects) from 
baseline to week 16 in all age groups. 
8-point self-measured plasma glucose profiles 
There were no statistically significant treatment differences in the mean of the 8 point profile, in 
prandial PG increments (mean of all meals, breakfast, lunch and main evening meal) or in the SMPG 
fluctuation at 16 weeks. Trends were similar for the shape of the 8-point SMPG profiles across age 
groups at week 16 for both treatment groups. 
4-point SMPG for dose adjustment 
There were no statistically significant treatment differences in pre-breakfast, pre-lunch, pre-main 
evening meal or pre-bedtime SMPG at 16 weeks.  
Within-subject variability as measured by coefficient of variation (%) after 16 weeks 
Within-subject variability in pre-breakfast SMPG after 16 weeks was similar for the two treatment 
groups; estimated mean treatment ratio IDegAsp OD/IDet = 1.02 [0.91; 1.14]95%CI. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The outcome of the secondary endpoints was in line with the primary endpoint. No statistically 
significant differences were observed between treatments. 
Safety results 
Extent of exposure 
A total of 360 subjects were exposed to trial product: 181 subjects in the IDegAsp group and 179 
subjects in the IDet group. Of those randomised, 94.5% subjects completed 16 weeks of trial 
treatment. Exposure was similar in the two treatment groups. Mean (SD) exposure was 0.30 (0.03) 
years with a range of 0.06 to 0.35 years in the IDegAsp group and 0.30 (0.04) years with a range of 
0.02 to 0.34 years in the IDet group. 
Insulin dose 
At randomisation the total daily insulin dose was to be reduced by 20%. Subjects were transferred 
from pre-trial basal insulin to IDegAsp or IDet aiming for a basal:bolus ratio of between 50:50 and 
30:70 with no specific recommendations for basal dose reduction. Daily basal insulin dose relates to 
the daily dose of IDet or IDeg (70% of the IDegAsp OD dose).  
In terms of dosing patterns, the mean total daily insulin dose was lower in the IDegAsp group 
compared to the IDet group throughout the trial. At week 16, the mean (SD) total daily insulin doses 
were 0.88 (0.29) vs. 1.01 (0.40) units/kg in the IDegAsp and IDet groups, respectively (Figure 4). 
In the IDegAsp treatment group, mean total daily insulin dose per body weight was highest in 
adolescents throughout the trial; mean dose in children 1-5 years and 6-11 years was similar 
throughout the trial.  
In the IDet treatment group, mean total daily insulin dose per body weight was lowest in children 1-5 
years and highest in adolescents 12-17 years throughout the trial. 
Figure 4 Total daily insulin dose (actual) in units/kg by treatment week – mean 
plot – safety analysis set 
Similarly, the mean (SD) daily basal dose was lower in the IDegAsp group: 0.36 (0.15) units/kg IDeg 
from IDegAsp vs. 0.49 (0.27) units/kg IDet at week 16 (Figure 5). After 16 weeks, 97 (54.2%) 
subjects in the IDet group were using IDet BID. 
Figure 5 Daily basal insulin dose (actual) in units/kg by treatment week – mean 
plot – safety analysis set 
The mean daily IAsp dose (including IAsp administered as IDegAsp) was similar in the two treatment 
groups throughout the trial; at week 16, mean (SD) daily IAsp dose was 0.52 (0.19) units/kg in the 
IDegAsp group and 0.52 (0.23) units/kg in the IDet group. 
In both the IDegAsp and the IDet treatment group, the mean daily bolus insulin dose per body weight 
was fairly constant in all three age groups during the trial and was similar between age groups. 
 
 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The total insulin dose throughout the study was slightly lower in the IDegAsp treated group compared 
to the IDet treated group. This was due to a lower basal insulin dose in the IDegAsp treated group. The 
bolus doses were comparable between groups. In both treatment groups, as expected, the highest 
dose per body weight was observed in the age group 12-17 years. Notably 54.2 % of patients in the 
IDet treated group were using IDet BID. 
Adverse events 
The overall rate of AEs was similar in the two treatment groups (915 vs. 853 events per 100 patient 
years of exposure [PYE] in the IDegAsp and IDet groups, respectively). The majority of events were 
mild or moderate in severity and were considered as unlikely to be related to the trial products. The 
rates of AEs considered possibly or probably related to trial product (IDegAsp or IDet), as judged by 
the investigator, were 47 vs. 37 events per 100 PYE, respectively, and approximately 75% of all 
subjects in either treatment group had an outcome of recovered at end of trial. 
No unexpected differences between the 3 age groups with respect to type of AEs were observed in the 
treatment groups. A slightly higher rate of AEs in the IDegAsp treatment group for children 1-5 years 
was observed. 
The most frequent AEs occurring in ≥5% and ≥1% of the subjects are summarised in Table 5. Apart 
from hypoglycaemic episodes reported on the hypoglycaemic episode form, the most frequently 
reported AEs (≥5%) in both treatment groups were ‘headache’, ‘nasopharyngitis’, ‘abdominal pain 
upper’, ‘pyrexia’ and ‘vomiting’ 
Table 5 Adverse events by system organ class and preferred term – most frequent 
[>=5%] – treatment emergent – summary – safety analysis set 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The overall reporting of adverse events were somewhat higher in the IDegAsp treated group, however, 
the rate of events deemed to be related to treatment was low and comparable between groups. Apart 
from hypoglycaemia, the most commonly reported events appears to be related to infectious diseases 
as could be expected in this age group. 
Serious adverse events 
The rates of SAEs were low: 14 SAEs reported by 11 (6.1%) subjects in the IDegAsp group and 7 SAEs 
reported by 7 (3.9%) subjects in the IDet group. For IDegAsp, the most frequently reported SAE were 
hypoglycaemia related AEs; 5 events of ‘hypoglycaemia’ in 5 subjects and 1 event in 1 subject of 
‘hypoglycaemic seizure’ vs 1 event of ‘hypoglycaemia’ in the IDet treatment group. All other SAEs were 
single occurrences in both treatment groups. No deaths were reported.  
Adverse events leading to withdrawal 
One subject in the IDegAsp group was withdrawn from the trial during the 16-week treatment period 
due to an AE of hypoglycaemic seizure. 
 
Adverse events leading to dose reduction 
The number of AEs leading to dose reduction of IDegAsp, IDet and/or IAsp was numerically higher with 
IDegAsp compared with IDet (21 events in 15 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 9 events in 
8 subjects in the IDet treatment group, leading to rates of 38 vs. 17 events per 100 PYE, respectively). 
Dose reduction due to AEs was most frequently related to events of infection or because of 
gastrointestinal disorders and events of ‘hypoglycaemia’. In both treatment groups most of the events 
related to dose reduction were reported in the SOC Infections and infestations (6 events in 5 subjects 
with IDegAsp and 6 events in 6 subjects with IDet, respectively). Insulin adjustments are normally 
required in connection with infections. The infections themselves may result in a need for higher insulin 
doses but the associated symptoms, such as vomiting, decreased appetite and diarrhoea, may cause a 
need for reducing the dose. Five (5) hypoglycaemia related AEs led to dose reductions in the IDegAsp 
treatment group compared to 0 events in the IDet treatment group. 
Among the AEs leading to dose reduction, 5 subjects reported 5 AEs that were considered possibly or 
probably related to IDegAsp (3 cases of ‘hypoglycaemia’, 1 ‘wrong drug administered’ and 1 
‘overdose’) and 1 subject reported 1 AE that was considered probably related to IDet (‘accidental 
overdose’). The AEs considered probably or possibly related to IAsp were 2 events in 2 subjects in the 
IDegAsp treatment group and no events in the IDet group. In the IDegAsp treatment group 1 event 
that led to an IDegAsp dose reduction (‘hypoglycaemia’) was related to both IDegAsp and IAsp. 
Adverse events leading to temporary withdrawal of trial product 
In total, 3 subjects (0.8%) had 3 AEs leading to temporary withdrawal of trial product; 2 subjects 
(1.1%) in the IDegAsp treatment group and 1 subject (0.6%) in the IDet treatment group. The events 
were ‘gastroenteritis’, ‘wrong drug administered’ and ‘fall’, respectively. 
All three events were considered unlikely related to trial product. Both subjects in the IDegAsp 
treatment group recovered from the events. The 1 subject in the IDet treatment group was recovering 
at end of the trial (‘Fall’, tibial plateau fracture due to trampoline fall). 
Rapporteur’s comment 
Serious adverse events were few and the most commonly reported event was hypoglycaemia. A 
hypoglycaemia related event was also the reason for withdrawal of one subject in the IDegAsp treated 
group. Hypoglycaemia was also the most common reason for dose reductions. 
Adverse events of special interest 
Medication errors concerning trial products 
Eight (8) events of medication error occurred in 7 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group (1 
‘overdose’ and 7 ‘wrong drug administered’) and 6 events in 6 subjects in the IDet treatment group (2 
‘accidental overdose’, 1 ‘drug dispensing error’ and 3 ‘wrong drug administered’). All of the ‘wrong 
drug administered’ events were due to mix-up of insulins by the subjects’ carer. In the IDegAsp 
treatment group, 5 out of the 7 ‘wrong drug administered’ events were due to mix-up between the two 
trial products, and 2 events (both in subject 911008) were due to mix-up between the trial product 
and the pre-trial insulin. In the IDet treatment group, out of the 3 ‘wrong drug administered’ events, 1 
was due to mix-up between the two trial insulins, and 2 were due to mix-up with the pre-trial insulin 
product. None of the events were reported as SAEs. Most of the events were mild in severity and all 
subjects recovered from the events. 
Allergic reactions 
A total of 9 events of allergic reactions occurred in 6 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 5 
events in 4 subjects in the IDet treatment group leading to rates of 16 vs. 9 events per 100 PYE, 
respectively. This difference was mostly driven by 5 events of ‘hypersensitivity’ in 2 subjects in the 
IDegAsp treatment group vs. no events in the IDet treatment group. All of the events were unlikely 
related to trial product and the dose of trial product did not change because of the events. 
Injection site reactions 
One (1) event of ‘injection site hypertrophy’ was reported in 1 subject with IDegAsp and 3 events of 
injection site reactions ( 2 events of ‘injection site hypertrophy’ and 1 event of ‘injection site swelling’) 
in 3 subjects were reported with IDet. One (1) event was considered possibly or probably related to 
IDegAsp or IDet in each treatment group respectively. Additionally, 1 injection site reaction in each 
treatment group was considered possibly or probably related to IAsp. 
None of the injection site reactions were serious. One (1) event of ‘injection site hypertrophy’ in the 
IDet treatment group was of moderate severity and 3 events were mild in severity. None of the 
subjects withdrew due to injection site reactions. Two events of ‘injection site swelling’ had an outcome 
of not recovered. 
Across age groups, 1 event of ‘injection site hypertrophy’ in the IDet treatment group was reported in 
children 1-5 years, no events were reported in children 6-11 years, and the remaining 3 events were 
reported in adolescents 12-17 years. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
Medication errors due to mix-up between trial products and pre-trial products were reported in both 
treatment groups. Slightly more allergic reactions were reported in the IDegAsp treated group, 
however, none of the events were considered related to study product and did not result in any 
changes in the dose of the product. Few injection site reactions were reported, which were evenly 
distributed between treatments. 
Hypoglycaemia 
In the 3816 trial, hypoglycaemic episodes were evaluated based on the International Society for 
Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD 2009) classification (PG ≤3.9 mmol/L or PG>3.9 mmol/L in 
conjunction with hypoglycaemic symptoms) and a Novo Nordisk definition of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes (severe hypoglycaemia and/or those with PG <3.1 mmol/L). 
Hypoglycaemia reported as adverse event 
A hypoglycaemic episode was to be reported as an AE if it fulfilled the definition of an SAE or a medical 
event of special interest (severe hypoglycaemia as per ISPAD definition). Hypoglycaemia was reported 
as an AE for 11 (6.1%) subjects in the IDegAsp group (12 events) and for 3 (1.7%) subjects in the 
IDet group (4 events). In addition, hypoglycaemic seizure was reported as an AE for 2 (1.1%) subjects 
in the IDegAsp group (3 events). Hypoglycaemia-related SAEs (hypoglycaemia and/or hypoglycaemic 
seizure) were reported for 6 (3.3%) subjects in the IDegAsp group (6 events) and for 1 (0.6%) subject 
in the IDet group (1 event). In addition, one subject in the IDegAsp group experienced a non-serious 
AE of hypoglycaemic seizure that led to withdrawal of the subject from the trial. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
Hypoglycaemia was only to be reported as an AE if it fulfilled the definition of a SAE or a severe 
hypoglycaemia as per ISPAD definition. The reporting of hypoglycaemia as AE was higher for IDegAsp 
than for IDet (6.1 % vs 1.7 %). 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
Almost all subjects experienced confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes during the 16-week treatment 
period with IDegAsp (N=168 [92.8%]) or IDet (N=164 [91.6%]) and the observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE was 4623 with IDegAsp and 4955 with IDet (Table 6).There was 
no statistically significant difference between treatment arms in the rate of confirmed hypoglycaemia 
(estimated mean treatment ratio of IDegAsp OD/IDet was 0.95 [0.76; 1.17]95%CI). 
Overall, there was a tendency to a higher rate for children 6-11 years (Figure 6). This may be due to 
challenges in controlling glycaemia during school hours. The majority of the confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes occurred during daytime (diurnal) for both treatment groups overall and across all age 
groups. Approximately 50% of the subjects in both treatment groups reported 10 or fewer confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Table 6 Hypoglycaemic episodes by classification – treatment emergent – summary 
- safety analysis set 
 
Figure 6 Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes – treatment emergent - mean 
cumulative function (upper panel: all subjects; lower panel: age groups) – safety 
analysis set 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The reporting of confirmed hypoglycaemias did not differ between treatment groups with similar 
proportions reporting an event. In both treatment groups, hypoglycaemias were more common in 
subjects aged 6-11 years which may reflect greater difficulties in controlling blood glucose in this age 
group, i.e. during school hours. 
Severe hypoglycaemic episodes 
The majority of subjects had no severe hypoglycaemic episodes neither in the IDegAsp treatment 
group [170 (93.9%)] nor in the IDet treatment group [176 (98.3%)]. In the IDegAsp treatment group, 
11 subjects (6.1%) reported 14 severe hypoglycaemic episodes (Table 6), leading to a rate of 26 
episodes per 100 PYE (Table 7). In the IDet treatment group, 3 subjects (1.7%) reported 4 severe 
hypoglycaemic episodes leading to a rate of 7 episodes per 100 PYE (Table 6 and Table 7). There was 
no statistically significant difference between treatment groups. 
When evaluating severe hypoglycaemic episodes it is important to note that these were mostly single 
occurrences in individual subjects. Three (3) subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group reported 2 
severe hypoglycaemic episodes each (1 of these subjects reported the events within 19 minutes and it 
 
was evaluated to be the same episode by the external classifier; see below) and 1 subject in the IDet 
treatment group reported 2 severe episodes. Two (2) of the episodes in the IDegAsp group and 1 in 
the IDet group appeared to be related to exercise. 
The observed rate of severe hypoglycaemic episodes was higher with IDegAsp than with IDet 
throughout the trial. The majority of the severe hypoglycaemic episodes occurred during daytime 
(diurnal) in both treatment groups. 
The episodes of severe hypoglycaemia according to ADA and ISPAD were reviewed by an external 
expert in a blinded manner in order to have a centralised assessment of severe hypoglycaemia 
classification, in accordance with ISPAD. The classification was based on case narratives and 
paraclinical findings. Under the external classification, 7 events (in 6 subjects) in IDegAsp treatment 
group were classified as severe based on the most subjective criterion ‘altered mental status and 
cannot assist in his care’; no events in the IDet treatment group met this criterion. Additionally, 6 
events (in 5 subjects) in the IDegAsp treatment group and 4 events (in 3 subjects) in the IDet 
treatment group involved the child being semiconscious or unconscious, or in a coma ± convulsions 
(Table 7). 
Table 7 External classified severe hypoglycaemic episodes – treatment emergent - 
summary - safety analysis set 
 
Figure 7 Severe hypoglycaemic episodes - treatment emergent - mean cumulative 
function (upper panel: all subjects; lower panel: age groups) – safety analysis set 
Severe hypoglycaemic episodes across age groups 
In the IDegAsp treated group, the number of severe hypoglycaemic episodes was similar between age 
groups; 5 episodes in 4 subjects were reported in children 1-5 years and in adolescents 12-17 years 
while 4 episodes in 3 subjects were reported in children 6-11 years (Figure 7). The rate for children 1-
5 years was higher compared to other age groups, although it should be noted that the rates are based 
on few episodes. 
In the IDet treated group, two (2) episodes in 2 subjects were reported in children 1-5 years and 2 
episodes in 1 subject were reported in adolescents 12-17 years. No episodes were reported in children 
6-11 years (Figure 7). 
Rapporteur’s comment 
Severe hypoglycaemias were rare but more often reported in the IDegAsp treated group. Importantly 
most of the events occurred in daytime. The rate of severe hypoglycaemias was comparable across 
age groups in the IDegAsp treated group, whereas no events were reported in the age group 6-11 
years treated with IDet. However, due to the low number of events no firm conclusions can be drawn. 
 
Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
The percentages of subjects experiencing nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes were similar 
with IDegAsp (N= 101 [55.8%]) and IDet (N= 106 [59.2%]) as was the observed rates per 100 PYE 
(577 with IDegAsp and 540 with IDet). No statistically significant difference was observed between the 
treatment arms (IDegAsp OD/IDet: 1.09 [0.81; 1.48]95%CI). Approximately 90% of the subjects in 
both treatment groups reported 4 or fewer nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes during the 
trial. 
Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes across age groups 
The rate of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes tended to increase with increasing age. Thus, 
the rate was higher in adolescents 12-17 years as compared to the overall trial population and lower in 
children 1 to 5 years. The higher rate in adolescents may be attributed to adolescent lifestyle. 
Nocturnal severe hypoglycaemic episodes 
The number of nocturnal severe hypoglycaemic episodes was low in both treatment groups, which 
precluded meaningful statistical analysis comparison between treatments. 
Two (2) nocturnal severe hypoglycaemic episodes in 1 subject was reported in the IDegAsp treatment 
group (children 6-11 years) and 2 episodes in 2 subjects was reported in the IDet treatment group (1 
subject in children 1-5 years and 1 subject in adolescents 12-17 years). 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The rate of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemias did not differ between treatment groups. In both 
groups, nocturnal hypoglycaemias were more common in adolescents than in younger patients. Only 
very few severe nocturnal hypoglycaemias were reported which were evenly distributed between 
groups. 
Hyperglycaemic episodes and ketosis 
According to the protocol, subjects were to report a hyperglycaemic episode whenever a glucose 
measurement was 14.0 mmol/L (250 mg/dL) or above, and the subject looked/felt ill. Subjects having 
a hyperglycaemic episode as described were to also measure ketone bodies. The ketone measurement 
involved an additional finger prick. Ketosis was considered present if blood ketones were higher than 
1.5 mmol/L. 
The percentages of subjects experiencing hyperglycaemic episodes were similar between IDegAsp (N= 
72 [39.8%]) and IDet (N= 73 [40.8%]) treatment groups. The observed rate of hyperglycaemic 
episodes per 100 PYE was 1094 with IDegAsp and 833 with IDet (Table 8). 
The percentages of subjects experiencing hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis (blood ketones > 1.5 
mmol/L) were numerically lower with IDegAsp (N= 4 [2.2%]) compared to IDet (N= 8 [4.5%]) (Table 
8). The rate per 100 PYE was 11 with IDegAsp and 22 with IDet. There were no statistically significant 
differences between treatment groups in the rates of hyperglycaemic episodes or hyperglycaemic 
episodes with ketosis. 
In order to assess the hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis in the trial, it has to be considered that 
many subjects did not measure ketone bodies as per protocol. Ketone bodies were measured for 
approximately 74% of hyperglycaemic episodes in the IDegAsp treatment group and for 67% in the 
IDet treatment group. This imbalance in ketone body measurement among groups would be expected 
to result in more ketosis episodes identified in the IDegAsp treatment group. However, less episodes of 
ketosis were reported in the IDegAsp treatment group than in the IDet treatment group (6 episodes in 
4 subjects with IDegAsp versus 12 episodes in 8 subjects with IDet), implying that the difference in 
episodes of ketosis in favour of IDegAsp might have been underestimated. 
Regarding subjects experiencing nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes, the percentages of subjects were 
similar between IDegAsp (N= 26 [14.4%]) compared to the IDet (N= 30 [16.8%]) treatment group. 
The respective rates per 100 PYE were 184 with IDegAsp and 98 with IDet (Table 8). 
Regarding nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis (blood ketones > 1.5 mmol/L), 1 episode in 
1 subject was reported with IDegAsp vs 2 episodes in 2 subjects with IDet (Table 8). No statistical 
analysis was performed for nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes nor for nocturnal hyperglycaemic 
episodes with ketosis. 
Table 8 Hyperglycaemic episodes and episodes of ketosis – treatment emergent – 
summary - safety analysis set 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The proportion of subjects reporting hyperglycaemias did not differ between treatment groups, but 
more hyperglycaemic events were reported in the IDegAsp treated group. The reporting of 
hyperglycaemia with ketones was low, with fewer reports in the IDegAsp treated group. However, as 
noted by the MAH, more subjects had actually measured ketones in accordance with the protocol in the 
IDegAsp treated group, thus the rate of ketosis in this group may be overestimated. 
Hyperglycaemic episodes across age groups 
In the IDegAsp treated group, children 6-11 years had higher rate per 100 PYE (1751) of 
hyperglycaemic episodes compared to children 1-5 years (817) and adolescents 12-17 years (722). 
The number of hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis was 3 in children 1-5 years, 1 in children 6-11 
years and 2 in adolescents 12-17 years. 
The percentage of subjects with nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes was similar between age groups. 
The number of nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis was very low for all age groups. 
 
In the IDet treated group, children 1-5 years had a higher rate per 100 PYE (955) of hyperglycaemic 
episodes compared to children 6-11 years (758) and adolescents 12-17 years (827). The number of 
hypoglycaemic episodes with ketosis was 4 in children 1-5 years, 3 in children 6-11 years and 5 in 
adolescents 12-17 years. 
The percentage of subjects with nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes was similar between children 1- 5 
years and children 6-11 years and slightly higher for the adolescents 12-17 years. The number of 
nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis was very low for all age groups. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
In the IDegAsp treated group, the highest rate of hyperglycaemias was observed in the age group 6-
11 years, whereas in the IDet treated group the highest rate was observed in the age group 1-5 years. 
No differences between age groups were observed for nocturnal hypoglycaemias for either treatment. 
Vital signs and laboratory values 
No clinically relevant differences from baseline to end of treatment or between the two treatment 
groups were observed for vital signs or laboratory values. Mean SD score for body weight increased in 
the IDegAsp group from 0.40 at baseline to 0.44 at week 16. No such increase was seen in the IDet 
group, where there was very little change in mean SD score for body weight. Statistical analysis of 
change from baseline in weight SD score showed a statistically significant treatment difference; 
IDegAsp-IDet: 0.07 [0.02; 0.12]95% CI for the change from baseline to week 16. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
There were no clinically relevant differences observed with regards to vital signs or laboratory values 
during the study. Mean body weight increased in the IDegAsp treated group, whereas no change was 
observed in the IDet treated group. This difference was statistically significant. 
1.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
With this submission the completed paediatric study NN5401-3816 (hereafter referred to as study 
3816) for Ryzodeg has been provided, in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006. 
Study 3816 is part of the PIP agreed upon with EMA (PDCO). The extension application consisting of 
the full relevant data package (i.e containing several studies) is expected to be submitted .  
Trial 3816 was a 16-week multi-national, multi-centre, open-label, two-arm, parallel group, 
randomised, treat-to-target, efficacy and safety trial in children and adolescents with T1DM between 1 
and 18 years of age.  
The primary objective of the trial was to confirm the efficacy of IDegAsp administered OD plus meal-
time IAsp for the remaining meals in controlling glycaemia with respect to change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment. The secondary objective was to compare the efficacy and safety 
between the two treatment groups. 
The general study design was adequate. A randomised, open-label trial was chosen since the two 
treatment regimens require different number of daily injections. This is acceptable. Previous studies in 
adult T1DM patients comparing IDegAsp with IDet showed that HbA1c levels had stabilised after 12 to 
16 weeks of treatment. The study duration is therefore considered adequate in the paediatric 
population. The inclusion and exclusion criteria were adequate. Due to the rise in the incidence of 
T1DM noted in many countries, with a disproportionately greater increase in children under 5 years, 
inclusion of the very young age groups (1-18 years) in this trial was required by EMA (PDCO).  
The choice of comparator and bolus insulin is acceptable. Both IDet and IAsp are currently not 
approved for use below the age of 2 years, however limited data is available from other clinical trials 
and no safety concerns have arisen from these data. 
The statistical methods were adequate. The chosen non-inferiority margin of 0.4 % is generous as 
currently a margin of 0.3 % is recommended. However, the chosen non-inferiority margin could serve 
its purpose for calculating the sample size and the final assessment depends on the actual outcome of 
the data. 
The study included 362 subjects randomised 1:1 to the two treatment groups. Overall 94.5 % of 
patients completed the study. Withdrawals were evenly distributed between treatments and age 
groups. The baseline characteristics were generally well balanced between groups. Notably, only one 
child below the age of 2 years was included (IDet). Duration of diabetes was slightly longer in the 
IDegAsp treated group, however, numerically more diabetes complications were reported in the IDet 
treated group.  
Both treatments resulted in a reduction of HbA1c compared to baseline (-0.27 % vs -0.23 % for 
IDegAsp and IDet, respectively) and non-inferiority was demonstrated. The upper limit of the CI was 
0.15 which is well within both the pre-defined non-inferiority margin of 0.4 % and the currently 
recommended non-inferiority margin of 0.3 %. A similar trend for HbA1c reduction was observed in all 
age groups irrespective of treatment. Sensitivity analyses were all in line with the primary analysis, 
thus the outcome appears robust. 
The outcome of the secondary endpoints was in line with the primary endpoint. No statistically 
significant differences were observed between treatments. 
The total insulin dose throughout the study was slightly lower in the IDegAsp treated group compared 
to the IDet treated group. This was due to a lower basal insulin dose in the IDegAsp treated group. The 
bolus doses were comparable between groups. In both treatment groups, as expected, the highest 
dose per body weight was observed in the age group 12-17 years. Notably 54.2 % of patients in the 
IDet treated group were using IDet BID at end-of-trial. 
The overall reporting of adverse events were somewhat higher in the IDegAsp treated group, however, 
the rate of events deemed to be related to treatment was low and comparable between groups. Apart 
from hypoglycaemia, the most commonly reported events appears to be related to infectious diseases 
as could be expected in this age group. There were no apparent imbalances in the reporting of events 
by SOC or preferred terms. 
Serious adverse events were few and the most commonly reported event was hypoglycaemia. A 
hypoglycaemia related event was also the reason for withdrawal of one subject in the IDegAsp treated 
group. Hypoglycaemia was also the most common reason for dose reductions. 
Medication errors due to mix-up between trial products and pre-trial products were reported in both 
treatment groups. Slightly more allergic reactions were reported in the IDegAsp treated group, 
however, none of the events were considered related to study product and did not result in any 
changes in the dose of the product. Few injection site reactions were reported, which were evenly 
distributed between treatments. 
Thus the reporting of adverse events does not evoke any new safety concerns. 
Hypoglycaemia was only to be reported as an AE if it fulfilled the definition of a SAE or a severe 
hypoglycaemia as per ISPAD definition. The reporting of hypoglycaemia as AE was higher for IDegAsp 
than for IDet (6.1 % vs 1.7 %). 
The reporting of confirmed hypoglycaemias did not differ between treatment groups with similar 
proportions reporting an event. In both treatment groups, hypoglycaemias were more common in 
subjects aged 6-11 years which may reflect greater difficulties in controlling blood glucose in this age 
group, i.e. during school hours. 
Severe hypoglycaemias were rare but more often reported in the IDegAsp treated group. Importantly 
most of the events occurred in daytime. The rate of severe hypoglycaemias was comparable across 
age groups in the IDegAsp treated group, whereas no events were reported in the age group 6-11 
years treated with IDet. However, due to the low number of events no firm conclusions can be drawn. 
The rate of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemias did not differ between treatment groups. In both 
groups, nocturnal hypoglycaemias were more common in adolescents than in younger patients. Only 
very few severe nocturnal hypoglycaemias were reported which were evenly distributed between 
groups. 
The proportion of subjects reporting hyperglycaemias did not differ between treatment groups, but 
more hyperglycaemic events were reported in the IDegAsp treated group. This difference was, 
however, not statistically significant. The reporting of hyperglycaemia with ketones was low, with fewer 
reports in the IDegAsp treated group. However, as noted by the MAH, more subjects had actually 
measured ketones in accordance with the protocol in the IDegAsp treated group, thus the rate of 
ketosis in this group may be overestimated. In the IDegAsp treated group, the highest rate of 
hyperglycaemias was observed in the age group 6-11 years, whereas in the IDet treated group the 
highest rate was observed in the age group 1-5 years. No differences between age groups were 
observed for nocturnal hypoglycaemias for either treatment. 
There were no clinically relevant differences observed with regards to vital signs or laboratory values 
during the study. Mean body weight increased in the IDegAsp treated group, whereas no change was 
observed in the IDet treated group. This difference was statistically significant. 
2.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Study 3816 was an adequately designed study in subjects with T1DM, aged 1-18 years, with the aim of 
evaluating the efficacy and safety of Ryzodeg (IDegAsp) compared to that of Levemir (IDet). All age 
groups (1-5, 6-11 and 12-17 years) were well represented in the study.  
The study was able to demonstrate that Ryzodeg was non-inferior to Levemir in terms of HbA1c 
lowering. The data further show that this was achieved with lower insulin doses using Ryzodeg, mainly 
due to lower basal insulin doses. Furthermore, the number of injections per day is potentially lower 
with Ryzodeg, as 54.2 % of patients in the Levemir treated group were using Levemir BID at end-of-
trial.  
The overall safety profile of Ryzodeg appears comparable to that of Levemir in this population and no 
new safety concerns arise from the data submitted.  However, although not statistically significant, 
confirmed hypoglycaemias and severe hypoglycaemias were more common with Ryzodeg compared to 
Levemir and so was also hyperglycaemias. This may reflect that the use of a very long-acting basal 
insulin, such as insulin degludec, may be more difficult to control in some paediatric subjects. 
The MAH has stated that an extension application, with the aim of obtaining paediatric labelling for 
Ryzodeg, will be submitted. Therefore no further clarifications are requested within this procedure.  
Overall conclusion 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled: 
No further action required, however further data are expected in the context of an extension prior any 
conclusion on product information amendments is made. The MAH should commit to submit this 
extension application. 
  Not fulfilled: 
Additional clarifications requested 
Not applicable. 
 
 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development program 
The studies should be listed by chronological date of completion: 
Clinical studies 
Product Name:  Ryzodeg 
Active substance: insulin degludec/insulin aspart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
