26 April 2018 
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Samsca  
tolvaptan 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000980/P46/022 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the studies ............................. 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical studies .................................................................................................. 4 
3. CHMP’s overall conclusion and recommendation ................................... 10 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 2/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 19/1/2018, the MAH submitted the final study reports of two paediatric trials for Samsca, 156-08-
276 and 156-11-294, in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
Tolvaptan is currently approved and marketed in the European Union (EU) for the treatment of adults 
with hyponatremia secondary to syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) as 
well as for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). 
Tolvaptan is approved in the United States (US) and Australia for treatment of clinically significant 
hypervolemic and euvolemic hyponatremia, including patients with heart failure and SIADH. 
This submission contains the final study reports of two paediatric trials, 156-08-276 and 156-11-294. 
Both clinical trials were designed and conducted to fulfil the paediatric regulatory requirements of the 
European medicines Agency (EMA) (Trial 156-11-294) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
(Trial 156-08-276). These two trials were prematurely terminated due to issues with subject enrolment 
and recruitment and not due to safety reasons.  
For Samsca, in October 2017, EMA Paediatric Committee (PDCO) granted a waiver for the dilutional 
hyponatremia indication pertaining to the trials in the Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) (EMEA-
001231-PIP02-13-M05). Before the waiver was granted, trial 156-11294 was a PIP requirement with 
objective of long term safety follow up of children with hyponatraemia who have previously 
participated in tolvaptan trials, including US phase 3b trial 156-08-276.  
A joint clinical overview was submitted to discuss the results of both paediatric clinical trials.  
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the studies 
Tolvaptan was supplied or planned to be supplied as 3.75 mg, 7.5 mg, 15 mg and 30 mg spray-dried 
tablets with a dose-proportional amount of water for both studies and additionally as a 1 mg/mL (0.1% 
w/v) syrup suspension for trial 156-08-276. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted final reports for Trial 156-08-276 and Trial 156-11-294.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 3/10 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Clinical studies 
156-08-276 
Description 
A Phase 3b, multicenter, open-label, randomized withdrawal trial of the effects of titrated oral SAMSCA 
(Tolvaptan) on serum sodium, pharmacokinetics, and safety in children and adolescent subjects 
hospitalized with euvolemic or hypervolemic hyponatremia. 
Methods 
Objective 
The objectives of this trial were to evaluate that tolvaptan effectively and safely increases and 
maintains serum sodium concentrations and to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of tolvaptan and the 
effect on fluid balance in children and adolescent subjects with euvolemic or hypervolemic 
hyponatremia. 
Study design 
This trial was an open-label, multicentre, multiple-dose, randomized withdrawal, parallel-group trial of 
tolvaptan in children and adolescent subjects hospitalized with euvolemic or hypervolemic 
hyponatremia (serum sodium < 130 mEq/L) that was persistent despite initial standard background 
therapy including fluid restriction and excluding a vasopressin antagonist. 
After screening, all subjects underwent a treatment phase (2 to 5 days of tolvaptan treatment) and 
then a follow-up phase post-randomization of 14 days. During Treatment Phase A, subjects received 
tolvaptan once daily on Days 1 and 2. If the serum sodium level did not increase at least 4 mEq/L by 
Day 2, treatment was extended one additional day (to Day 2a). On Day 2a, subjects achieving an 
increase in serum sodium of ≥ 4 mEq/L were defined as responders, and subjects not achieving a ≥ 4 
mEq/L increase in serum sodium were defined as non-responders. Subjects who were responders 
continued to Treatment Phase B (Randomization Phase) on Day 3, and were randomized to either the 
Early Withdrawal group (not receiving additional tolvaptan on Days 3 or 4) or the Late Withdrawal 
group (continuing tolvaptan treatment for Days 3 and 4). Randomization included stratification by age 
(< 10 years of age and ≥ 10 to < 18 years of age), serum sodium response (≤ 7 and > 7 mEq/L), and 
underlying aetiology of hyponatremia. 
Subjects randomized to Early Withdrawal were monitored for any interventions needed to maintain 
appropriate serum sodium levels. Where sodium levels declined by ≥ 4 mEq/L, or where the overall 
clinical condition warranted further intervention to increase serum sodium levels, subjects were treated 
per the investigator’s preferred standard of care. Any intervention, including fluid restriction, during 
the first 48 hours of the Early Withdrawal phase was defined as rescue therapy, and subject data was 
censored thereafter. 
Subjects who were non-responders during Phase A were not randomized in Phase B but were treated 
per the investigator’s discretion, either continuing tolvaptan for 2 additional days, or discontinuing 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 4/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tolvaptan and receiving the investigator’s preferred standard of care for Days 3 and 4. Serum sodium 
was measured in all subjects at 8, 12 and 24 hours post-first dose, and every 12 (± 4) hours through 
the end of Treatment Phase B. Additional sampling was conducted for safety assessments on Day 1 at 
4 to 6 (-1 to + 0.25) hours post-dose and 18 (± 1) hours post-dose; this sodium safety assessment 
was repeated at 6 (- 1 to + 0.25) and 18 hours (± 1) post-dose each day for the remainder of 
titration. 
During Phase C (Follow-up Phase), subjects were monitored and treated per the investigator’s 
preferred standard of care up to an additional 3 days after the last tolvaptan dose. Serum sodium was 
also measured 72 (± 4) hours and 7 (+ 1) days post-last dose. A final safety follow-up telephone 
contact/visit was performed 14 (+ 2) days post-last dose. Pharmacokinetic samples were obtained on 
Day 1 and Day 2 in Phase A and for tolvaptan-treated subjects at 24 and 48 hours post-randomization 
in Phase B. Hospitalization was required during initiation and up-titration of tolvaptan. When a subject 
was in the withdrawal phase, or not expected to receive a higher tolvaptan dose, administration could 
continue outside of the hospital setting. 
Study population /Sample size 
Up to 100 male and female subjects were planned for inclusion; recruitment efforts focused on major 
paediatric referral centres at up to 50 sites globally. 
Inclusion criteria required the presence of chronic (> 48 hours) dilutional hyponatremia associated with 
heart failure, hepatocellular disease including cirrhosis, or syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic 
hormone excretion in subjects with the potential to benefit from tolvaptan treatment. 
Key inclusion criteria included: male and female subjects ≥ 4 weeks (or ≥ 44 weeks adjusted 
gestational age) to < 18 years old; hospitalization with euvolemic or hypervolemic hyponatremia 
persisting despite initial standard background therapy (including fluid restriction and excluding a 
vasopressin antagonist); and persistent euvolemic or hypervolemic hyponatremia (present for at least 
48 hours). 
Exclusion criteria included subjects with acute hyponatremia, or hyponatremia expected to resolve 
spontaneously. Subjects with impaired ability to sense or communicate thirst were required to be more 
closely monitored in hospital or were excluded. Other exclusion criteria included: evidence of 
hypovolemia or intravascular volume depletion; serum sodium < 120 mEq/L with or without associated 
neurologic impairment; use or anticipated use during the trial of potent cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 
inhibitors in subjects ≤ 12 kg or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors in subjects < 6 kg; lack of free access to 
water or without Intensive Care Unit-level fluid monitoring and management; history or current 
diagnosis of nephrotic syndrome; hyperkalemia; estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 30 
mL/min/1.73 m2; acute kidney injury; severe or acute neurological symptoms requiring other 
intervention; previous treatment for hyponatremia with hypertonic saline, urea, lithium, 
demeclocycline, conivaptan or tolvaptan within 4 days of qualifying serum sodium assessments, or 
other treatments to increase serum sodium concurrent with dosing of trial medication; anuria or 
urinary outflow obstruction unless catheterized during the trial; history of drug or medication abuse 
within 3 months prior to screening or current alcohol abuse; history of hypersensitivity and/or 
idiosyncratic reaction to benzazepine or benzazepine derivatives; psychogenic polydipsia; uncontrolled 
diabetes mellitus; screening liver function values > 3 × upper limit of normal; subjects with deficient 
coagulation; cirrhosis, and with any of the following: major gastrointestinal bleed within the past 6 
months, evidence of active bleeding, platelet count < 50,000/μL, or use of concomitant medications 
known to increase bleeding risk; hyponatremia secondary to medication that could safely be 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 5/10 
 
 
 
 
 
withdrawn; hyponatremia more appropriately corrected with alternative therapies; currently pregnant 
or breastfeeding; any medical condition that could interfere with evaluation of trial objectives or 
subject safety, or any unsuitability for trial participation; participation in another investigational drug 
trial within 30 days without prior sponsor approval; subjects weighing < 3 kg; subjects unable to 
swallow tablets if the suspension formulation was unavailable; subjects requiring the suspension 
formulation but having hereditary fructose intolerance. 
Treatments 
The first dose of trial 156-08-276 medication was administered upon successful completion of 
screening procedures. Subjects underwent a treatment phase of 2 to 5 days, and a follow-up phase 
post-randomization of 14 days.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy: 
- Primary efficacy endpoint: for subjects with serum sodium increases of ≥ 4 mEq/L (ie, responders), 
change in serum sodium concentration from Day 2 (or 2a) at the end of Treatment Phase A to the end 
of Treatment Phase B for Early compared to Late Withdrawal groups 
- Secondary efficacy endpoint for all subjects was change from baseline in serum sodium concentration 
at the end of Day 2 (or 2a) in Treatment Phase A 
- Exploratory endpoints were assessed in non-responders continuing tolvaptan therapy by change from 
baseline in serum sodium concentration at the end of Treatment Phase B compared to the end of 
Treatment Phase A. In addition, in all subjects, 24-hour excretion of sodium and creatinine and urine 
osmolality were obtained on Days 1 and 2; and 24-hour sodium clearance was obtained on Day 1. 
Quality of life assessments were also planned. 
Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics: 
- On Day 1 in Treatment Phase A, tolvaptan maximum (peak) plasma concentration (Cmax), time to 
maximum (peak) plasma concentration (tmax), and area under the concentration-time curve from 
time zero to 24 hours (AUC0-24h) 
- Fluid intake, urine output, and fluid balance (intake minus output) every 6 hours on Days 1 and 2 in 
Treatment Phase A. 
Safety Outcome Variables: 
- Percentage of subjects with an overly rapid increase in serum sodium (≥ 12 mEq/L in 24 hours after 
first  dose);  percentage  of  subjects  requiring  rescue  therapy  during  Phase  A  and  Phase  B;  change  in 
serum sodium from 24 hours post-last dose to 7 days post-last dose; percentage of subjects requiring 
fluid restriction during Phase A and Phase B; and  vital signs, blood pressure, clinical laboratory tests, 
body weight, and neurological examinations. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 6/10 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical Methods 
A total of 70 randomized subjects would provide 90% power to detect a treatment difference of 4 
mEq/L (mmol/L) change in serum sodium from the end of Treatment Phase A to end of Treatment 
Phase B, using a 2-sided alpha of 0.05. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
5 subjects were screen failures, and 9 were screened successfully, met inclusion criteria and were 
enrolled and treated, with 7 completing the trial and two discontinued. 9 subjects were analysed for 
safety and efficacy. Responders eligible for Phase B included one subject who was 39 weeks of age, 2 
were 3 years, one was 8 years, and one was 10 years of age. All were White except one 3-year-old 
African-American subject and the 10-year-old subject was of Hispanic ethnicity. All 5 responders 
completed the trial. 2 non-responders completed the trial; two subjects discontinued the trial due to 
AEs (Phase A Early Terminators), one due to haemorrhage at the medical device site (left ventricular 
assist device [LVAD]), and one due to increased faecal volume. 
Efficacy results 
For the primary efficacy endpoint of increase in serum sodium, 9 subjects achieved the target ≥ 4 
mEq/L increase in serum sodium during Treatment Phase A, and permitting randomization into Phase B 
(2 into the Late Withdrawal group and 3 to Early Withdrawal). At 7 days post-last dose, 1 subject in 
the Late Withdrawal and 1 subject in the Early Withdrawal groups achieved serum sodium levels > 135 
mEq/L to fall within the normal reference range for serum sodium values. There was no incidence of 
serum sodium level ≥ 145 mEq/L and no incidence of overly rapid rise in serum sodium level (i.e., ≥ 8 
mEq/L in 8 hours or ≥ 12 mEq/L in 24 hours). Serum sodium level exceeded the lower limit reference 
range in 2 of the 5 responders (1 subject in the Early Withdrawal Phase at 7 days after the last dose, 
and 1 in the Late Withdrawal Phase) where serum sodium level was at or above the lower limit range 
at 12 of the 15 measured time-points. One subject in the Standard of Care group, considered a non-
responder, continued to receive tolvaptan titrated doses but had been initially under-dosed, noted as a 
protocol deviation. All subjects were compliant with trial medication dosing. Protocol deviations relating 
to dose occurred in 1 subject in the non-responders group who continued to receive tolvaptan 
treatment at a lower than prescribed dose. 
CHMP’s comments:  
Only 9 subjects were enrolled and achieved the target serum sodium increase in phase A. 5 of them 
were considered responders to tolvaptan treatment. The trial was prematurely terminated due to low 
recruitment. Due to the extremely low number of paediatric patients recruited no conclusion on 
tolvaptan’s efficacy in this trial can be drawn.  
Safety results 
8 out of the 9 subjects reported AEs.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 7/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One subject each in the Early Withdrawal and Late Withdrawal groups experienced mild diarrhoea 
considered related to study medication, each resolving without change in dose. No deaths occurred 
during the trial. The SAEs included one incidence each of the following: worsening chronic diarrhoea, 
catheter site extravasation, bleeding at device site, and faecal volume increase. Two AEs that were 
also SAEs (the case of bleeding at device site, and the case of faecal volume increase) resulted in 
discontinuation; faecal volume increase was also related to Study drug.  
Due to the small number of subjects enrolled, no comparison of tolvaptan concentrations between 
adults and children was conducted. 
CHMP’s comments:  
The trial was terminated due to enrolment issues and not due to safety reasons. No new safety signals 
were identified.  
156-11-294 
Description 
A Phase 3b, multicentre, extension follow-up trial to evaluate the long-term safety of children and 
adolescent subjects with euvolemic or hypervolemic hyponatremia who have previously participated in 
a trial of titrated oral SAMSCA. 
Methods 
Objective 
The objective of this trial was to provide 6 months of safety follow-up for children and adolescents with 
dilutional hyponatremia who had previously participated in tolvaptan trials including trial 156-08-276, 
and to assess the efficacy of tolvaptan in increasing serum sodium for those subjects who received 
optional continuing tolvaptan treatment of variable duration (up to 6 months). 
Study design 
This trial consisted of a 6-month safety follow-up trial and an embedded optional tolvaptan treatment 
trial for eligible subjects. The duration of tolvaptan treatment in trial 156-11-294 was case-specific and 
could have consisted of 1 or more treatment cycles. 
Patients were to be followed (at a clinical trial site and/or through telephone calls), regardless of the 
need for treatment for hyponatremia, to assess the long-term safety of tolvaptan. There was no 
screening phase. 
Study population /Sample size 
Approximately 100 male or female subjects were planned to be enrolled in this trial. Eligible subjects 
were subjects who enrolled in a previous tolvaptan paediatric trial for hyponatremia; There were no 
exclusion criteria for entry into the core safety follow up component of this trial. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Trial safety endpoints included:  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 8/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Percentage of subjects with overly rapid correction in serum sodium (≥ 12 mEq/L [mmol/L]) in 24 
hours after the first dose at introduction or reintroduction of tolvaptan 
- Changes from baseline in ALT, AST, BT, and creatinine for subjects on tolvaptan 
- Frequency of AE reports (including cases of dehydration) 
- Changes from baseline in growth percentiles by visit for body height and weight 
- Tanner Staging progression score (at 6 months) 
Pharmacokinetics for optional tolvaptan treatment component 
Primary efficacy endpoint: Change from baseline in serum sodium while tolvaptan was being 
administered  
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 3 subjects were enrolled in this trial (after approximately 18 months of open enrolment), but 
no subjects received optional investigational medicinal product (IMP). No major protocol deviations 
were reported during the trial.  
1 subject was ≥ 4 weeks to < 4 years of age, 1 subject ≥ 4 to < 8 years of age, and 1 subject ≥ 8 to 
< 12 years of age. Two subjects were female; Two subjects were White and 1 subject was Hispanic or 
Latino. The mean (SD) weight for subjects in the trial was 26.5 (11.9) kg, and the mean (SD) height 
was 111.3 (24.8) cm. The mean body mass index was 21.3 kg/m2. 2 subjects were classified as 
hypervolemic secondary to heart failure and 1 subject was classified as euvolemic secondary to 
pseudohypoparathyroidism. 2 subjects had heart failure and 1 subject had syndrome of inappropriate 
secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH)/other. No subjects had an underlying aetiology of 
hepatocellular disease.  
The most common medical history events reported were cardiac failure and hepatomegaly, each 
occurring in 2 trial subjects. All trial subjects were using 1 or more medications prior to or during the 
trial. The most common concomitant medications taken prior to start of the trial were acetylsalicylic 
acid, enoxaparin, and furosemide, each of which were taken by 2 subjects. All other concomitant 
medications taken prior to the start of the trial and during the trial period were taken by 1 subject. In 
all subjects, > 30 days had passed since the last visit of the previous tolvaptan trial (156-08-276). One 
subject reported at least one new episode of hyponatremia since the last visit of the previous trial; this 
subject received previous treatment (fluid restriction and tolvaptan) for the last episode of 
hyponatremia. 
Efficacy results 
Due to the early trial termination status and the small subject population, planned efficacy analyses 
could not be performed in this trial. Mean scores for PedsQL GCS were only obtained in 1 subject and 
were analysed following the Core Safety Month 6. The change from baseline in PedsQL GCS total score 
was -3.5. The change from baseline in PedsQL GCS physical health summary score was 12.5 (n = 1), 
and the change from baseline in PedsQL GCS psychosocial health summary score was -13.5 (n = 1). 
Mean scores for PedsQL QoL MFS were also only obtained in 1 subject and were analysed following the 
Core Safety Month 6. The change from baseline in PedsQL QoL MFS total score was 9.7. 
Safety results 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
No subject received IMP during this trial. All 3 subjects were included in the analysis of safety. Overall, 
2 subjects experienced at least 1 AE during the trial. 11 events were reported between the 2 subjects. 
Subjects experienced AEs from the system organ classes of general disorders and administration site 
conditions (1 subject) and infections and infestations (2 subjects). Most of all AEs were considered 
moderate or severe. Only 1 subject reported SAEs (enterovirus infection, pyrexia, rhinovirus infection, 
and urosepsis) during the trial, all considered not related to tolvaptan. No deaths due to AEs were 
reported. No subjects discontinued IMP due to AEs. No potentially clinically significant laboratory test 
result abnormalities were reported in any subject. 
CHMP’s comments:  
3 subjects completed the 6-month core safety study follow-up. No adverse event was considered 
related to treatment.  
The trial was terminated due to low subject enrolment. No new safety signals are identified from these 
3 subjects that completed the trial.   
3.  CHMP’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
The MAH submitted the study reports of trials 156-08-276 and 156-11-294.  
Trial 156-08-276 was an open-label, multicentre, multiple-dose, randomized withdrawal, parallel-group 
trial of tolvaptan in children hospitalized with euvolemic or hypervolemic hyponatremia that was 
persistent despite initial standard background therapy. Only 9 subjects were enrolled in this trial. No 
efficacy conclusions can be drawn due to the low number of paediatric patients recruited.  
Trial 156-11-294 was a 6-month extension follow-up trial to evaluate the long-term safety of children 
with dilutional hyponatremia who had previously participated in tolvaptan trials, including trial 156-08-
276. No subjects received IMP.  
Both trials were terminated due to low recruitment of patients. The trials’ termination was not due to 
safety reasons. No safety signals emerged from these two trials.  
The results of these trials do not influence the benefit-risk ratio of Samsca. No further action is 
required.  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/304438/2018  
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
