EMA/416573/2018  
EMEA/H/C/000980 
Samsca (tolvaptan) 
An overview of Samsca and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Samsca and what is it used for? 
Samsca is a medicine for treating abnormally low levels of sodium in the blood in adults with a 
condition called ‘syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion’ (SIADH).  
In SIADH, an excessive amount of the hormone vasopressin makes the patient produce less urine 
and thereby retain more water in the body, which dilutes the concentration of sodium in the blood. 
Samsca contains the active substance tolvaptan. 
How is Samsca used? 
Samsca is available as tablets (7.5, 15 and 30 mg). The starting dose is 15 mg once a day. This 
may be increased to a maximum of 60 mg once a day to achieve an appropriate level of blood 
sodium and blood volume. A dose of 7.5 mg once a day can be used for patients at risk of 
excessively quick rise in blood sodium. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment with Samsca should be started in 
hospital so that healthcare professionals can determine the most appropriate dose and monitor the 
patient’s level of blood sodium and blood volume.  
For more information about using Samsca, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Samsca work? 
People with SIADH have an excessive amount of vasopressin, leading to decreased urine 
production and dilution of the blood. The active substance in Samsca, tolvaptan, is a ‘vasopressin-2 
receptor antagonist’. This means that it blocks one type of receptor (target) to which the hormone 
vasopressin normally attaches itself. By blocking this receptor, Samsca prevents vasopressin’s 
effect. This increases urine production, decreasing the amount of water in the blood and increasing 
the blood sodium level. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Samsca have been shown in studies? 
Two studies involving 424 adults showed that Samsca is effective at increasing sodium levels in 
patients with low levels caused by SIADH and other conditions such as liver and heart problems. 
However, Samsca was more effective in patients with SIADH than in those with liver or heart 
problems. Normal sodium levels are between 135 and 145 mmol/l. 
In patients with SIADH, sodium levels, which were around 129 mmol/l at the start of treatment, 
rose by an average of 4.8 mmol/l by day 4 in those who took Samsca, compared with 0.2 mmol/l 
in those who took placebo (dummy treatment). By day 30, sodium had increased by an average of 
7.4 mmol/l in patients who took Samsca, compared with 1.5 mmol/l in patients receiving placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Samsca? 
The most common side effects with Samsca (which may affect more than 1 patient in 10) are 
thirst, nausea (feeling sick) and sodium levels rising too quickly. For the full list of side effects 
reported with Samsca, see the package leaflet. 
Samsca must not be used in patients with anuria (an inability to pass urine), very low blood 
volume, low blood sodium levels with low blood volume, hypernatremia (abnormally high levels of 
sodium in the blood) or in patients who cannot perceive thirst. It must not be used in patients who 
are allergic to tolvaptan or medicines that are similar to tolvaptan, so-called benzazepines or their 
derivatives. Samsca must also not be used in women who are pregnant or breast-feeding. For the 
full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Samsca authorised in the EU? 
Samsca has been shown to be effective at increasing sodium levels, particularly in patients with 
SIADH. The only major safety concerns seen with this medicine came from animal studies 
suggesting it could be harmful to unborn babies. This medicine must therefore not be used in 
women who are pregnant or breastfeeding. 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Samsca’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
that it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Samsca? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the 
safe and effective use of Samsca have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Samsca are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Samsca are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Samsca 
Samsca received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union on 3 August 
2009. 
Further information on Samsca can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
Samsca (tolvaptan)  
EMA/416573/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 06-2018 
Samsca (tolvaptan)  
EMA/416573/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
