European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/502935/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Samsca 
International Nonproprietary Name: tolvaptan 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000980 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 15 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 41 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 44 
Page 2 of 49 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Otsuka  Pharmaceutical  Europe  Ltd.  submitted  on  28  January  2008  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Samsca,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3(2)(a)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 19 July 2007. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
•  Treatment of patients with symptoms of worsening heart failure as add-on to standard of care such 
as diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin II antagonists, ACE-inhibitors, and digitalis.  
•  Treatment of euvolemic and hypervolemic hyponatraemia secondary to syndrome of inappropriate 
antidiuretic hormone secretion [SIADH], heart failure, and liver cirrhosis.  
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: United States  
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur: Antonio Addis 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 28 January 2008. 
The procedure started on 27 February 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  19  May 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 20 
May 2008.  
During the meeting on 26 June 2008 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 26 
June 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  27 
October 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 2 February 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 19 February 2009, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  Written explanations were provided by the applicant on 20 March 2009. 
• 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22  April  2009,  outstanding  issues  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 5 May 2009. 
During the meeting on 26- 29 May 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
• 
• 
Page 3 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Samsca  on  28  May  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 20 May 2009. 
Page 4 of 49 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Introduction 
2.1 
A  number  of  disorders,  including  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF),  liver  cirrhosis,  and  syndrome  of 
inappropriate  antidiuretic  hormone  (SIADH)  secretion,  are  associated  with  increased  arginine 
vasopressin (AVP) secretion. Increased AVP levels lead to excessive water retention accompanied by 
electrolyte imbalances, in particular hyponatraemia. Conventional therapy to treat these patients often 
exacerbates  hyponatraemia  and  other  electrolyte  imbalances  by  promoting  a  loss  of  water  together 
with  electrolytes.  A  selective  vasopressin  V2  receptor  antagonist  could  neutralize  the  effects  of  the 
increased AVP levels and reduce water retention without disturbing electrolytic balance.  
Tolvaptan (OPC-41061) is a vasopressin antagonist that blocks the binding of AVP at the V2 receptors 
of  the  distal  portions  of  the  nephron,  thereby  inducing  free  water  clearance  (aquaresis)  without 
depletion  of  electrolytes.  The  clinical  development  of  tolvaptan  was  initiated  in  1994  with  early 
healthy subject trials conducted in Japan and has since been investigated extensively in hyponatraemia 
and heart failure patients. There is some overlap between the 2 indications that were originally filed in 
this application, and these 2 complementary tolvaptan programs have proceeded in parallel. 
This application concerns the centralised procedure (Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, article 3(2)(a)). It 
is submitted in accordance with Article 8(3) in Directive 2001/83/EC for a new active substance. 
Conditional approval, an approval under exceptional circumstances or an accelerated review were not 
requested. 
The claimed indication for Samsca was: 
•  Treatment of patients with symptoms of worsening heart failure as add-on to standard of care 
such as diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin II antagonists, ACE-inhibitors, and digitalis.  
•  Treatment  of  euvolemic  and  hypervolemic  hyponatraemia  secondary  to  syndrome  of 
inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion [SIADH], heart failure, and liver cirrhosis.  
The approved indication is the following: 
•  Treatment of adult patients with hyponatraemia secondary to syndrome of inappropriate 
antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Tolvaptan is a new active substance used as a Vasopressin (V2) antagonist. The medicinal product is 
formulated as an immediate release tablet containing either 15mg or 30 mg of active substance.  
Other 
cellulose, 
hydroxypropylcellulose,  low-substituted  hydroxypropylcellulose,  magnesium  stearate  and  indigo 
carmine  (E  132)  aluminum  lake.  Tablets  are  coloured  in  blue  and  packed  in  PVC/Aluminuim  foil 
blisters.  
lactose  monohydrate,  maize 
starch,  microcrystalline 
ingredients 
are 
Active Substance 
Tolvaptan or ‘(±) 4'-[(7-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-5-hydroxy-1H-1-benzazepin-1-yl) carbonyl]-o-tolu-
m-toluidide’ is a new active substance with the following structure (molecular weight of 448.94):  
Page 5 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The molecule has an asymmetric centre and can exist as two enantiomers. Tolvaptan active substance 
has been developed as a racemate and exhibits no optical rotation.  
It  is  a  non  hygroscopic,  white  crystalline  powder;  physical  characterisation  demonstrated  that  this 
substance shows only one crystalline configuration. Solubility investigations indicated that tolvaptan is 
soluble  in  benzyl  alcohol  and  methanol  but  practically  insoluble  in  water  and  hexane  across  a  wide 
range of pH.  
•  Manufacture 
The  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  for  the  preparation  of  tolvaptan  active  substance 
consists of three steps which have been described in detail with reference to an ASMF. Controls of the 
starting materials and critical intermediates are sufficient to ensure the quality of the final compound.  
Potential impurities, including genotoxic impurities, have been discussed in relation to their origin and 
potential carry-over into the final finished product. 
•  Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for description, identity (IR, UV and HPLC), melting 
point,  heavy  metals,  related  substances  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  loss  on  drying,  sulphated 
ashes, assay (HPLC) and test for specific optical rotation.  
Analytical  methods  are  performed  in  line  with  common  pharmacopoeia  technique  and  sufficient 
details have been provided. Validation reports have been provided when relevant. Impurity limits in 
the specification are justified by toxicological studies.  
•  Stability 
Stability  studies  were  performed  according  to  ICH  conditions.  36  months  long-term  and  6  months 
accelerated data is provided on three production scale batches of active substance manufactured by the 
commercial synthetic route.  
The active substance was tested for description, identification (IR and HPLC), melting point, 
impurities  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC)  and  loss  on  drying.  Tolvaptan  was  also  exposed  to  various 
stress conditions, i.e. exposure in the solid state to elevated temperature and/or humidity, and to light 
irradiation. In general the proposed retest period is justified based on the stability studies results.  
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The main concern for the formulation development was the low bioavailability linked to the fact that 
tolvaptan active substance is practically insoluble in water, and that no pH dependence of solubility is 
observed.  In  order  to  improve  the  dissolution  and  thereby  enhance  the  bioavailability,  amorphous 
powder is used in the tablet formulation. Also, the capability of conversion to crystalline form from 
amorphous  tolvaptan  is  a  critical  point  of  pharmaceutical  development  and  pharmaceutical  process 
because a solid state transition can significantly affect dissolution and bioavailability; this is controlled 
during  manufacture  by  X-ray  diffraction.  Then  the  in  vitro  dissolution  method  included  in  the 
specification  is  used  as  a  Quality  Control  and  also  as  an  indirect  method  of  evaluating  any 
crystallisation  of  the  drug  substance.  The  data  provided  suggest  that  no  amorphous  crystalline 
Page 6 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conversion  occurs  during  manufacture  or  storage.  Thus,  the  physical  characteristics  (particle  size, 
crystalline  configuration…)  of  the  neat  drug  substance  do  not  have  any  direct  impact  on  the  tablet 
formulations. Studies to optimise the process are described. The 15 mg tablet is a direct scale down 
from the 30 mg tablet. 
A number of formulations were used during development and a series of bioavailability studies have 
been presented to summarise the clinical/formulation development and to compare the bioequivalence 
(BE) of those formulations used in Phase I/II/III studies. With the exception of the colorant, the 30 mg 
tablet used in phase II & III studies is the same as the commercial formulation.  
The excipients were chosen based on previous long-term pharmaceutical technological experience of 
the  applicant  with  the  same  dosage  form.  These  are:  lactose  monohydrate  (diluent),  maize  starch 
(diluent),  microcrystalline  cellulose  (diluent),  hydroxypropylcellulose  (binder),  low-substituted 
hydroxypropylcellulose  (disintegrant),  magnesium  stearate  (lubricant)  and  indigo  carmine  (E  132) 
aluminum lake (colorant). 
All  excipients  used  are  compendial  grade  except  for  the  colorant  which  conforms  to  EC  Directive 
95/45/EC. Magnesium stearate used in the formulation is of vegetal origin. A satisfactory BSE/TSE 
statement from the supplier of lactose is provided. 
Tolvaptan  tablets  are  packaged  in  polyvinyl  chloride  (PVC)/aluminium  blisters.  The  components  of 
the composite film material and the aluminium foil comply with current EU guidelines; moreover, no 
interaction between the tablets and the chosen immediate packaging material, PVC/Aluminium blisters 
have been observed during stability studies.  
The packaging components for the market packages are almost identical to those employed to package 
the  primary  stability  batches;  comparability  has  been  demonstrated  (structure,  composition  and 
moisture and oxygen barrier). 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Manufacture  of  tolvaptan  tablets  is  composed  of  two  stages:.  The  granulation  is  common  for  both 
strength. Flow chart valid for all strength of tablets has been provided.  
The  manufacturing  process  does  not  involve  novel  processes  but  several  steps  are  considered  as 
critical 
the  active  substance:, 
granulation/drying, lubrication/final blending and compression.  
the  solubility  and  hence, 
the  bioavailability  of 
to  ensure 
The critical steps of the manufacturing process are adequately defined and controlled by suitable in-
process controls with acceptable limits.  
The  data  generated  demonstrates  that  the  manufacturing  processes  are  adequately  controlled, 
reproducible and justified. The manufacture process is considered as standard and therefore, validation 
will be completed before marketing according to the process validation plan provided.  
•  Product Specification 
The product specification includes description, identification (HPLC), impurities/degradation products 
(HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (HPLC), dissolution, assay HPLCand microbial limits (Ph.Eur.). 
In-house analytical methods have been developed and are described in detail; all methods have been 
fully validated.  
Data on 3 commercial scale batches of each strength is provided and all the batches comply with the 
proposed  specifications.  Moreover,  batch  data  from  clinical  trial  and  bioequivalence  batches  is  also 
provided as supporting information.  
The  specification  reflects  all  relevant  quality  attributes  of  the  active  substance  and  was  found  to  be 
adequate to control the quality of the active substance.  
The  limit  for  total  degradation  product  is  based  on  data  generated  from  batches  of  the  new  drug 
product and its stability characteristics.  
Page 7 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies according to ICH guidelines have been completed through 36 months under long term 
conditions and through 6 months under accelerated studies. Stress studies have also been performed. 
Stability studies were also conducted on production-scale tolvaptan 15mg and 30-mg bulk tablets. The 
following parameters, tests for identification, assay, impurities/degradation products, and dissolution 
are the  same  as  those  proposed in the  regulatory  specifications. The  primary  stability  protocols  also 
include tests for friability, disintegration, water content, hardness, and microbial limit. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity  of  important  product  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant provided a Letter of Undertaking and 
committed to resolve these issues as Follow Up Measures after opinion within an agreed timeframe.  
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  non-clinical  development  of  tolvaptan  has  been  designed  in  accordance  EU/ICH  guidelines.  In 
general  the  pivotal  safety  pharmacology  and  toxicology  studies  were  conducted  in  compliance  with 
the  GLP  regulations  and  in  accordance  with  guidance  that  was  current  at  the  time  the  studies  were 
conducted.  However,  none  of  the  safety  pharmacology  studies  on the  CNS  in mice  were  performed 
under GLP compliance. The studies were conducted in 1992, before CPMP/ICH/539/00 was issued in 
June 2001. Some of the dose-range finding studies were not conducted in compliance with GLP either 
but this is not considered to affect the validity of the results. 
There has been no formal CHMP scientific advice for the tolvaptan development programme. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
A  series  of  in  vitro  studies  looked  at  the  antagonistic  effects  of  tolvaptan,  its  optical  isomers, 
intermediates  and  metabolites  at  human,  dog  and  rat  V2,  V1a  and  V1b  receptors.  Tolvaptan 
demonstrated  selectivity  for  V2  over  V1  receptors  in  rat,  dog  and  human  in  vitro,  with  inhibition 
constants at the V2 receptor of 1.33±0.26, 0.66±0.09 and 0.43±0.06 nM, respectively. Selectivity was 
shown for human V2 receptors over human V1a receptors, but tolvaptan had no affinity for human V1b 
receptors even at 10-4M. The optical isomers were no different from each other or from the racemate in 
their ability to antagonise the binding of [3H]- AVP (Arginine vasopressin) to V2 receptors in HeLa 
cells. In dogs, the isomers were also equipotent at V2 receptors, but S-(-) appeared to be more potent 
than R-(+)-tolvaptan at rat V2 receptors. Metabolites were less potent that the parent compound. 
Tolvaptan, its optical isomers and metabolites had no agonist activity in HeLa cells expressing human 
vasopressin V2-receptors.  
Tolvaptan had little or no affinity for a range of other ion channels and receptors, with a weak effect 
only at adenosine and oxytocin receptors which is not considered to be of clinical relevance.  
Page 8 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
In vivo, tolvaptan produced dose-related increases in urine volume and decreases in urine osmolality in 
conscious  rats,  mice,  rabbits  and  dogs  following  single  oral  doses  of  up  to  10 mg/kg.  Excretion  of 
electrolytes was not affected in dogs over a 6 hour period post-dose and in rats over 24 hours, although 
there was an initial increase in Na, K, Cl, creatinine and urea excretion during the first 4 hours post-
dose in rats. In mice, there was also an increase in urinary Na, creatinine and urea nitrogen in the 0-4 h 
post-dose  period,  and  in  rabbits,  an  increase  in  urinary  Na  and  Cl  excretion  at  10 mg/kg.  Serum 
osmolality increased at 10 mg/kg in mice, rats and rabbits. 
Repeated oral doses of tolvaptan at 1 or 10 mg/kg for 4 weeks in rats produced an aquaretic effect that 
was maintained for the duration of the study. Tolvaptan increased the excretion of AVP in this study 
but had no effect on serum or pituitary AVP levels, nor on the number of AVP receptors in the liver or 
kidney and may have resulted from increased AVP secretion from the pituitary.   
An agonistic effect of tolvaptan was not seen in water-loaded, alcohol-anaesthetised rats, but tolvaptan 
antagonised  the  antidiuretic  effect  of  AVP  when  administered  intravenously  (ED50  13  µg/kg). 
Tolvaptan  also  inhibited  AVP-induced  platelet  aggregation  (IC50  1.28µM),  but  did  not  itself  induce 
platelet aggregation, therefore showing no V1a-agonist activity. 
In  heart  failure  models  in  dogs,  tolvaptan  at  1  to  10 mg/kg  induced  aquaresis  as  in  normal  dogs, 
without any significant increases in urinary electrolyte excretion or changes in the renin-angiotensin-
aldosterone system or stimulation of the sympathetic system. At 10 mg/kg it reduced cardiac preload 
but did not affect cardiac afterload or renal function. Plasma vasopressin was increased in this study. 
However  the  effect  of  tolvaptan  at  10 mg/kg  on  serum  osmolality  varied  between  the  studies.  This 
difference was likely to have resulted from differing experimental conditions, with dogs in one study 
allowed  free  access  to  water  and  showing  no  change  in  serum  osmolality,  whilst  those  in  the  other 
study did not have access to water and had increased serum osmolality.  
Tolvaptan  increased  survival  in  rats  with  acute  progressive  hyponatraemia  from  a  dose  of  1 mg/kg, 
and  in  an  ischemia/reperfusion-induced  model  of  myocardial  infarction  in  SIADH  rats,  a  dose  of 
10 mg/kg  improved  plasma  sodium  levels  and  osmolality  to  normal levels  and significantly reduced 
infarct size. 
A  comparison  of  dietary  vs.  gavage  administration  in  rats  showed  a  more  constant  change  in  urine 
volume and osmolality when tolvaptan was administered in the diet. With gavage dosing, increasing 
the dose or the frequency of dosing prolonged the duration of the pharmacological effects.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
In secondary pharmacology studies, tolvaptan has shown some potentially beneficial effects in animal 
models of human autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
A core battery of safety pharmacology studies as indicated in CPMP/ICH/539/00 Note for Guidance 
was  conducted.  Those  studies  conducted  after  publication  of  the  guidance  were  carried  out  in 
compliance with GLP. 
Tolvaptan at oral doses of up to 1000 mg/kg had no effects on the central nervous system in mice, that 
is, no proconvulsive, analgesic or sedative effects, or effects on general behaviour, motor activity, or 
body temperature.  
Cardiovascular  effects  were  studied  in  vivo  and  in  vitro.  In  anaesthetised  dogs,  heart  rate  and 
respiration  rate  increased  and  blood  pressure  decreased  at  10 mg/kg  intravenously,  but  these 
parameters were unaffected in conscious dogs following oral doses up to 1000 mg/kg, at which dose 
the  serum  Cmax  for  tolvaptan  was  2.83 µg/ml.  T-wave  amplitude  of  the  EGC  decreased at  this  dose, 
and  following  a  10 mg/kg  intravenous  dose  in  anaesthetised  animals.  In  vitro  studies  in  guinea  pig 
papillary muscle and CHO-K1 cells stably transfected with the hERG channel showed tolvaptan had 
Page 9 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
no effect on action potential parameters or hERG current at concentrations up to 3x10-5M and 2x10-
6M, respectively. 
There  were  no  effects  on  gastrointestinal  motility  in  vivo  or  in  vitro  at  clinically  relevant 
concentrations.  
Metabolites  DM-4103  and  DM-4107  were  tested  for  respiratory  and  cardiovascular  effects  in  dogs, 
behavioural  effects  in  mice  and  inhibition  of  the  hERG  current  in  vitro.  The  only  finding  was  an 
increased ST segment in the ECG in dogs with DM-4107 following an intravenous dose of 10 mg/kg 
(serum concentration 70.1 µg/ml). 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic  studies  in  normal  rats  and  dogs  and  in  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF)  dogs  with 
tolvaptan  and  furosemide  suggest  that  the  aquaretic  effect  of  tolvaptan  is  still  evident  when  co-
administered with furosemide.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in rats, dogs and rabbits at oral doses up to 1000 mg/kg.  
High  performance  liquid  chromatography  with  ultraviolet  detection  (HPLC/UV)  and  liquid 
chromatography  with  tandem  mass  spectrometry  (LC/MS/MS)  methods  were  developed  for  the 
measurement  of  concentrations  of  tolvaptan  and/or  its  metabolites  in  serum/plasma,  urine,  and/or 
tissues of mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, monkeys, and guinea pigs.  
The methods were validated and the lower limit of quantitation (LLQ) for tolvaptan in serum by the 
HPLC/UV method was 2.5 to 100 ng/ml and the LLQ for each of the metabolites ranged from 20 to 
100 ng/ml. The LLQ for tolvaptan in serum by the LC/MS/MS method was 1 to 5 ng/ml and the LLQ 
for the metabolites ranged from 1 to 5 ng/ml.  
Stability  of  the  samples  under  various  collection/storage  conditions  was  also  investigated. 
Radioactivity was measured by liquid scintillation counting. 
Initial studies used jet-milled tolvaptan. Absorption was relatively rapid (Tmax ranging from 0.25h to 
3.3h),  as  was  elimination  half-life  (0.3  to  4.1h).  Cmax  and  AUC  increased  dose-dependently,  but  the 
increases were generally not linear, possibly due to high first-pass metabolism. The presence of food 
reduced Cmax and AUC in male rats and dogs and delayed Tmax in dogs compared with the values in 
fasted animals.  
In fasted rats, exposure (Cmax and AUC) to tolvaptan was greater in females than in males after a single 
oral dose. Following oral administration of [14C]-tolvaptan, the proportion of unchanged tolvaptan to 
radioactivity in the serum was much smaller in males than in females, therefore male rats metabolise 
tolvaptan to a greater extent than females. Repeated oral administration of [14C]-tolvaptan to male rats 
resulted in blood concentration of radioactivity increasing to steady state by day 12, which was 3.6 to 
4.6 times higher than the blood level on day 1. 
In comparison with the jet-milled tolvaptan, a spray-dried (SD) formulation produced higher Cmax and 
AUC values for tolvaptan when administered orally to rats and dogs. Bioavailability of a 30 mg oral 
dose  of  jet-milled  oral  spray-dried  tolvaptan  was  calculated  to  be  0.63%  and  16%  in  male  rats, 
respectively,  and  in  male  dogs,  2.0%  and  14.6%  respectively.  Bioavailability  is  higher  in  humans 
(56%), but the animal species used for toxicology studies were generally exposed to tolvaptan and its 
principal metabolites (DM-4103 and DM-4107) to a greater extent than humans.  
In fasted female rats, tolvaptan concentrations in the kidney were four times higher than in serum, but 
followed a similar pharmacokinetic time course. 
In  vitro  and  ex  vivo  plasma  protein  binding  were  high  (>97%  and  >93%,  respectively)  in  rat,  dog, 
mouse, rabbit and human and independent of concentration over the ranges tested (0.1 to 10 µg/ml). 
Page 10 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furosemide,  spironolactone,  propranolol,  disopyramide,  lidocaine  and  warfarin  had  little  effect  on 
plasma  protein  binding  of  tolvaptan  and  its  metabolites  DM-4103  and  DM-4107  and  similarly, 
tolvaptan and DM-4103 had little effect on the binding of propranolol, lidocaine and spironolactone to 
human plasma proteins in vitro. Therefore the potential for interactions resulting from displacement of 
plasma protein binding is low. 
Tissue  distribution  studies  with  [14C]-tolvaptan  showed  radioactivity  mainly  distributed  to  liver,  GI 
tract and kidney, with little crossing the blood brain barrier (BBB) or into skin or eyes in male albino 
rats. In comparison, there were a larger number of tissues in female albino rats that had higher levels 
of  radioactivity  than  serum,  although  there  was  again  little  crossing  the  BBB  or  in  skin  or  eyes.  A 
subsequent  distribution  study  in  male  Long-Evans  rats  showed  that  the  ratio  of  radioactivity  in 
eyeballs and in skin to that in serum was similar to that in the albino rats, confirming that tolvaptan or 
its metabolites in the rat do not have a particular affinity for melanin and that there is little likelihood 
of it being distributed into the skin and eyes in pigmented animals.  
Transfer  of  radioactivity  across  the  placenta  has  been  demonstrated  in  pregnant  rats  following  oral 
administration of [14C]-tolvaptan, with highest levels in foetal liver. The ratio of radioactivity in foetal 
tissue to that in maternal plasma did not exceed 0.8 during the 48h post-dose period. Radioactivity was 
also  present  in  milk  when  [14C]-tolvaptan  was  administered  orally  to  lactating  rats  on  day  14  post-
partum. Levels in milk were higher than those in plasma, peaking at 8h post-dose. Section 4.6 of the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SCP) reflects this information. 
Tolvaptan  is  extensively  metabolised  in  all  species  investigated.  In  vitro  studies  with  rat  liver 
supernatant  produced  a  number  of  metabolites  of  tolvaptan.  Hydroxylation  of  the  benzazepine  ring 
produced metabolites DM-4110, DM-4111 and DM-4119. Cleavage of the bond between the 1 and 2 
positions  of  the  benzazepine  ring  produced  metabolites  DM-4103,  DM-4104,  DM-4105  and  DM-
4107. Oxidation of the hydroxyl group at the 5 position in the benzazepine ring produced MOP-21826. 
Human  liver  microsomes  incubated  with  tolvaptan  produced  DM-4103,  DM-4104,  DM-4105,  DM-
4107, DM-4110, DM-4111, MOP-21826 and 3 unknowns. When incubated with the optical isomers of 
tolvaptan,  there  were  some  quantitative  differences  in  metabolism.  Both  R-(+)-tolvaptan  and  S-(-)-
tolvaptan produced DM-4103, DM-4104, DM-4105, DM-4107, DM-4110, DM-4111, DM-4119, DM-
4120, MOP-21826 and an unknown, but the major metabolite from R-(+)-tolvaptan was DM-4104 and 
that from S-(-)-tolvaptan was DM-4110.  
In  vitro  studies  with  recombinant  human  cytochrome  P450  isozymes  showed  tolvaptan  to  be  a 
substrate for CYP3A4, and an inhibitor of the metabolism of other CYP3A4 substrates as well as of 
CYP2C9. In this study, incubation with R-(+)-tolvaptan (DM-4101) produced DM-4111, MOP-21826 
and DM-4119. S-(-)-tolvaptan (DM-4102) produced DM-4110, MOP-21826 and DM-4119. Therefore 
DM-4110 and DM-4111 were produced stereo-selectively in this assay. 
Further  in  vitro  studies  demonstrated  that  DM-4103  is  produced  from  MOP-21826  by  way  of  DM-
4105  in human  liver  supernatant  (S9) fraction,  and  that  DM-4128  is produced in  the  presence  of  β-
NADPH and microsomal CYP3A4 and CYP1A1. 
In vivo metabolism was investigated by analysing serum from rats, dogs, rabbits and mice following 
oral administration of tolvaptan or [14C]-tolvaptan.  
Following a single oral dose of spray-dried tolvaptan (30 mg/kg), 6 metabolites (DM-4103, DM-4104, 
DM-4105, DM-4107, DM-4110 and DM-4111) were detected in serum of male dogs and male rats. In 
addition, MOP-21826 was detected in female rats. The ratio of serum concentration of the metabolites 
to  that  of  the  parent  compound  varied  between  rat  and  dog  and  between  male  and  female  rats.  The 
metabolites in female rat serum were present at lower levels than was tolvaptan, whereas DM-4103, 
DM-4107 and DM-4110 were present in male rat serum at levels greater than the parent compound.  
The rank order of serum radioactivity concentration two hours after oral administration of 30 mg/kg 
[14C]-tolvaptan to male mice, rats, rabbits and dogs was evaluated. The rank order in rat bile was also 
Page 11 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investigated. There were at least 11 metabolites in the serum, and 28 in rat bile, some of which were 
not  identified.  Tolvaptan  and  the  identified  metabolites  accounted  for  75.5%,  85.3%,  57.6%  and 
58.1% of the serum radioactivity in mice, rats, rabbits and dogs, respectively. In rat bile, unidentified 
metabolites accounted for 39.1% of the radioactivity. 
Therefore  there  were  quantitative  differences  between  the  species  but  metabolism  was  qualitatively 
similar.  The  species  chosen  for  the  toxicity  studies  (rat  and  dog,  and  mice  and  rabbits  for 
carcinogenicity  and  reproductive  toxicity  studies),  were  appropriate.  There  were  no  unique  human 
metabolites. 
Administration of the racemate to rats and male rabbits produced higher levels of R-(+)-tolvaptan than 
S-(-)-tolvaptan in the serum. The reverse was true in dogs. S-(-)-tolvaptan was not converted to R-(+)-
tolvaptan in dogs, and R-(+)-tolvaptan was not converted to S-(-)-tolvaptan in rats. As the affinity of 
the isomers for the V2 receptor is similar, any differences in the proportions of the isomers between the 
non-clinical species are unlikely to affect the interpretation of the results of the toxicity studies.   
Repeated dosing of female rats reduced systemic exposure to tolvaptan. Analysis of the serum samples 
for metabolites DM-4103 and DM-4107 revealed increases in the concentrations of these metabolites 
following  repeated  dosing,  and  explained  the  reduction  in  serum  tolvaptan  concentrations. 
Furthermore,  tolvaptan  was  shown  to  induce  hepatic  drug-metabolising  enzymes  (cytochrome  b5 
content and aminopyrine N-demethylase activity) in female rats after 7 days dosing at 300 mg/kg/day.  
Tolvaptan was both a substrate for, and inhibitor of, MDR1-mediated transport. 
In rats and dogs, radioactivity was predominantly (90-95%) eliminated in the faeces. This was also the 
case in humans although a substantial quantity (about 40% of the dose) was also excreted in the urine, 
mainly as metabolites. As these metabolites are reported to have no activity at the levels found, and 
renal effects were not increased in the tolvaptan group compared with those on placebo, there would 
appear to be no clinically relevant effects on target organs as a result of the higher urinary excretion 
seen in man. In the animal species as well as man, tolvaptan clearance was mainly by metabolism.  
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Tolvaptan had low acute toxicity when administered to rats and dogs at 2000 mg/kg, the only findings 
being the presence of white material in the faeces and reduced food consumption.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Findings  in  the  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  were  generally  related  to  the 
pharmacological  effect  of  tolvaptan  and  consisted  of  increased  urine  volume,  decreased  urine 
osmolality and increased water consumption. Decreased body weight was also seen, and alterations in 
haematological  parameters  (decreased  haemoglobin,  erythrocyte  count,  haematocrit)  and  clinical 
chemistry parameters (including increased cholesterol, and changes in triglyceride and phospholipids, 
albumin/globulin ratios and electrolytes), which were reversible during a recovery period. There were 
no  obvious  target  organs  in  either  species,  although  there  may  have  been  a  minimal  effect  on  the 
adrenal cortex in dogs in the 52-week study resulting from enhanced cortisol production in response to 
tolvaptan-induced increases in plasma levels of AVP. 
In the 26-week rat study, females had a higher systemic exposure to tolvaptan than males throughout 
the study. Re-analysis of the samples for metabolite concentrations confirmed that the metabolic rate 
was higher in males than females. Exposure to tolvaptan and to the metabolites increased with dose at 
each  time  point,  but  exposure  to  tolvaptan  decreased  later  in  the  study  compared  with  week  0,  and 
metabolite exposure increased. 
For the chronic dog study, AUC increased in proportion with dose except for the mid-dose females, 
where there was a supra-proportional increase. The Cmax and AUC of the metabolites DM-4103 and 
DM-4107  increased  with dose  at  week  52 in  both  sexes  and  were less than  the  values  of  the  parent 
Page 12 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compound.  Unlike  the  rat,  there  appeared  to  be  no  sex  differences  in  toxicokinetics,  and  values  at 
week 52 were similar to those on day 1.  
At the NOAEL in the 26-week rat study, the AUC in males and females was 4-times and 6.5 times, 
respectively, the AUC in humans following a 60 mg dose. The corresponding exposure margins at the 
NOAEL in the 52-week dog study were 9.8 and 13.2-times in males and females, respectively.  
In  male  and  female  rats,  metabolite  DM-4103  was  not  toxic  up  to  the  maximum  dose  of  tolvaptan 
tested in males (1000 mg/kg/day) and at a dose of 100 mg/kg/day in females. Due to the long half-life 
of  DM-4103,  exposure to this  metabolite  at  steady  state in humans  was  not  measured,  but,  with  the 
exception  of female  rats in  the  26-week  study,  exposure  to  DM-4103  in  the  chronic rat studies  was 
greater than that in humans on day 10 following daily doses of 60 mg tolvaptan.  
•  Genotoxicity 
The  battery  of  genotoxicity  studies  were  conducted  appropriately  and  yielded  negative  results. 
Previous studies have demonstrated exposure to both jet-milled and spray-dried tolvaptan at the doses 
used in the in vivo studies. Tolvaptan is not considered to be genotoxic. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Two-year  studies  in  mice  and  rats  were  conducted.  In  neither  study  was  there  an  indication  of 
increased incidence of neoplastic lesions in relation to treatment with tolvaptan at doses up to 60 or 
100 mg/kg/day  in  male  and  female  mice,  respectively,  or  up  to  1000 mg/kg/day  in  rats.  At the  high 
doses  in  these  studies,  the  AUC  was  0.9-  and  1.3-  times  that  in  man  in  male  and  female  mice, 
respectively, and 3.9- and 10.4-times that in man in male and female rats, respectively. Therefore only 
in the rat study did serum levels of the parent compound exceed those in humans. However, despite 
the  absence  of  safety  margins  in  exposure  in  the  mouse  study,  given  the  negative  results  of  the 
genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies, overall tolvaptan is not considered to be carcinogenic.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Two  fertility  studies in  rats  showed  effects  on  the  parental  generation  (decreased  food  consumption 
and body weight gain, salivation), but tolvaptan did not affect reproductive performance in males and 
there were no effects on the foetuses. In females, abnormal oestrus cycles were seen in both studies. 
The  NOAEL  for  effects  on  reproduction  in  females  (100 mg/kg/day)  was  about  16-times  the 
maximum human recommended dose on a mg/m2 basis.  
A  series  of  studies  in  pregnant  rats  and  rabbits  showed  developmental  toxicity  in  the  rat  foetuses 
(decreased  body  weight  and  delayed  ossification  )  at  a  dose  of  1000 mg/kg/day,  and  in  rabbits 
(increased incidences of embryo-foetal death, microphthalmia, open eyelids, cleft palate, brachymelia 
and fused phalanx), also at 1000 mg/kg/day. There were abortions at the lower dose of 300 mg/kg/day 
in  rabbits.  Further  studies  in  pregnant  rabbits  showed  that  the  sensitive  period  for  these  effects  was 
from days 6 to 11 of gestation, particularly between  days 9 and 11. However, the mechanism of this 
effect  was  not  clarified,  despite  investigations  into  the  effects  of  water  restriction  and  biotin 
deficiency.  
Dosing  from  days  9  to  11  of  gestation  in  pregnant  rabbits  at  300 mg/kg/day  did  not  produce 
teratogenic effects and at this dose on day 11, AUC was 5.3 times that in humans after a 60 mg dose. 
Using a value of 8.117 µg.h/ml, obtained from a toxicokinetic study in which pregnant rabbits were 
dosed from day 6 to day 18 of gestation at 300 mg/kg/day, the exposure margin is only 2.5-times the 
human exposure.  
According to the "Discussion paper on contraindications in pregnancy concerning sections 4.3, 4.6 and 
5.3 of the summary of product characteristics" (CPMP/3833/03, June 2004) and the “Guideline on risk 
assessment  of  medicinal  products  on  human  reproduction  and  lactation:  from  data  to  labelling” 
(EMEA/CHMP/203927/2005),  when 
the 
contraindication  may  be  justified  if  there  are  pharmacological  properties  known  to  cause  direct  or 
indirect embryo-foetal damage which have to be considered as a strong signal and provided that other 
safer treatment options are available or treatment can be avoided or delayed until the pregnancy has 
ended. 
insufficient  or  no  experience 
in  human, 
there 
is 
Page 13 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  has  discussed  the  non-clinical  evidence  for  teratogenicity.  The  period  of  particular 
sensitivity  in  the  rabbit  equates  to  around  day  30  in  a  pregnant  woman,  who  may  at  that  stage  be 
unaware  that  she  is  pregnant.  As  the  safety  margin  is  small,  a  contraindication  in  pregnancy  seems 
warranted  if  safer  alternatives  are  available.  The  applicant  further  discussed  the  availability  of 
alternative, safer treatments during pregnancy for patients with symptoms of worsening heart failure 
and  patients  with  euvolemic  and  hypervolemic  hyponatraemia.  In  both  cases,  the  options  for 
management during pregnancy include conservative approaches, correcting the underlying causes and 
using treatments for which there is experience of use during pregnancy in those cases when there is an 
urgent need or the symptoms are severe. Such treatments may include beta-blockers, anti-arrhythmics 
or loop diuretics, depending on the condition requiring treatment. Therefore alternative treatments are 
available and the contraindication during pregnancy is accepted. 
In  the  pre-  and  post-natal  study,  the  NOAEL  for  the  offspring  was  100 mg/kg/day.  Tolvaptan  is 
excreted  in  the  milk  of  lactating  rats  and  the  levels  are  higher  than  those  in  maternal  plasma.  The 
product is contraindicated in breastfeeding and this appears to be a suitably cautious approach. This is 
reflected in section 4.3 of the SPC. 
There are no paediatric data currently for this product and no studies in the paediatric population have 
been planned or proposed. Juvenile animal studies have not been conducted or their absence discussed. 
There  were perinatal  deaths  and reduced  pup  weight in  the  pre-  and  post-natal developmental study 
and tolvaptan may have adverse effects if administered to children. The applicant plans to prepare a 
Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) or PIP waiver prior to any future development of the product that 
involves the paediatric population.  
•  Toxicokinetic data 
The major human metabolites DM-4103 and DM-4107 showed no significant toxicity when 
administered subcutaneously to male rats. Toxicokinetic analysis demonstrated that suitable exposures 
were achieved. Neither metabolite had mutagenic potential in in vitro tests. 
The optical isomers of tolvaptan appeared to be more toxic than the racemate when administered as a 
single oral dose to female rats. Toxicokinetic analysis revealed that this was due to a greater systemic 
exposure when the single isomers were administered. It is considered that this greater exposure was 
due to a smaller particle size of the isomers when compared with that of the racemate. Both isomers 
were negative in in vitro genotoxicity studies.  
•  Local tolerance  
Tolvaptan was not a dermal or ocular irritant, nor was it antigenic in guinea pigs. Repeated dosing of 
rats  for  4  weeks  with  tolvaptan  at  doses  up  to  1000 mg/kg/day  did  not  affect  the  humoral  immune 
response to sheep red blood cell antigen.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
In vitro phototoxicity studies showed tolvaptan and metabolite DM-4107 to have weak or very little 
phototoxic  potential.  Tolvaptan  did  not  show  any  phototoxicity  in  vivo  in  guinea  pigs  and  rabbits 
following  repeated  oral  doses  of  up  to  2000 mg/kg  and  1000 mg/kg,  respectively.  Metabolite  DM-
4103 did show phototoxic potential in vitro however. The concentrations of the metabolites as well as 
of the parent compound were measured in the tissues in the in vivo studies. DM-4103 was present at < 
0.125 µg/g  in  the  guinea  pig  study,  but  up  to  about  6 µg/g  in  the  rabbit  study.  The  in  vivo  studies 
provide some reassurance that phototoxicity might not occur as a result of exposure to DM-4103, and 
the distribution study in partially pigmented Long-Evans rats showed that tolvaptan and its metabolites 
have  little  affinity  for  melanin.  Consequently,  the  potential  for  phototoxicity  reactions  occurring  in 
man is considered to be low.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The phase I calculation of Predicted Environmental Concentration (PEC) produced a value (0.3 µg/L) 
that  was  greater  than  the  action  limit  of  0.01 µg/L,  and  therefore  a  Phase  II  Tier  A  assessment  was 
Page 14 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conducted. The outcome of the Tier A fate and effects analysis led to the conclusion that potential for 
bioaccumulation  (because  the  Kow  of  9000  exceeds  the  1000  trigger  value)  and  the  effects  on 
sediment dwelling organisms (because tolvaptan is not readily biodegradable and the results from the 
water  sediment  study  demonstrate  shift from  water  to  sediment  where  >10% remains  after  14  days) 
should be evaluated in Tier B. Data on bioaccumulation in fish (OECD 305) are being collected, and 
the report will be submitted as a post-authorisation commitment. On the basis of the data available so 
far, tolvaptan does not appear to present a risk to the environment.  
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
to 
treat 
therapy 
A  number  of  disorders,  including  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF),  liver  cirrhosis,  and  syndrome  of 
inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion, are associated with increased AVP secretion. 
Increased  AVP  levels  lead  to  excessive  water  retention  accompanied  by  electrolyte  imbalances,  in 
particular  hyponatraemia.  Conventional 
these  patients  often  exacerbates 
hyponatraemia  and  other  electrolyte  imbalances  by  promoting  a  loss  of  water  together  with 
electrolytes.  A  selective  vasopressin  V2  receptor  antagonist  could  neutralize  the  effects  of  the 
increased AVP levels and reduce water retention without disturbing electrolytic balance.  
Tolvaptan  (OPC-41061)  is  a  vasopressin  antagonist  that  blocks  the  binding  of  arginine  vasopressin 
(AVP) at the V2 receptors of the distal portions of the nephron, thereby inducing free water clearance 
(aquaresis)  without  depletion  of  electrolytes.  The  clinical  development  of  tolvaptan  was  initiated  in 
1994 with early healthy subject trials conducted in Japan and has since been investigated extensively 
in hyponatraemia and heart failure patients. There is some overlap between the 2 indications that were 
originally filed in this application, and these 2 complementary tolvaptan programs have proceeded in 
parallel. 
The  tolvaptan  clinical  program  for  hyponatraemia  and  heart  failure  can  be  found  in  the  Clinical 
Efficacy section.  
The claimed indication for Samsca was: 
•  Treatment of patients with symptoms of worsening heart failure as add-on to standard of care 
such as diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin II antagonists, ACE-inhibitors, and digitalis.  
•  Treatment  of  euvolemic  and  hypervolemic  hyponatraemia  secondary  to  syndrome  of 
inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion [SIADH], heart failure, and liver cirrhosis.  
The approved indication and posology are the following: 
•  Treatment of adult patients with hyponatraemia secondary to syndrome of inappropriate 
antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). 
Posology  
“Treatment  with  tolvaptan  should  be  initiated  at  a  dose  of  15 mg  once  daily.  The  dose  may  be 
increased  to  a  maximum  of  60 mg  once  daily  as  tolerated  to  achieve  the  desired  level  of  serum 
sodium.  During  titration,  patients  should  be  monitored  for  serum  sodium  and  volume  status  (see 
section  4.4).  In  case  of  inadequate  improvement  in  serum  sodium  levels,  other  treatment  options 
should be considered, either in place of or in addition to tolvaptan. For patients with an appropriate 
increase  in  serum  sodium,  the  underlying  disease  and  serum  sodium  levels  should  be  monitored  at 
regular intervals to evaluate further need of tolvaptan treatment. In the setting of hyponatraemia, the 
treatment duration is determined by the underlying disease and its treatment. Tolvaptan treatment is 
expected to last until the underlying disease is adequately treated or until such time that hyponatraemia 
is no longer a clinical issue.” 
No scientific advice that is relevant to this application was given by CHMP. However scientific advice 
meetings were held with several National Competent Authorities. 
Page 15 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The hyponatraemia development programme included CHF patients with hyponatraemia. Additionally 
a  trial in  hyponatremic  patients  with liver cirrhosis  and  Child-Pugh  score  less than  10 (156-96-203) 
was performed. Patients with significant/severe renal impairment were excluded from the development 
programme and therefore the information in this group is limited. 
GCP 
The CHMP requested a GCP inspection of the clinical study 156-03-236 EVEREST. Two investigator 
sites and the sponsor site in the USA were inspected in this routine GCP inspection. Although there 
was one critical finding at the Sponsor site, the Inspectors did not find evidence that the deficiencies 
found had impact on the overall validity and credibility of the data reported in this clinical trial and 
therefore  deemed  the  inspected  clinical  trial  as  valid  for  use  in  the  assessment  of  the  marketing 
authorisation application for Samsca. 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Tolvaptan drug substance is practically insoluble in water (0.00005 w/v% at 25°C), and the solubility 
is pH independent. In order to address the concern for low absorption the development proceeded with 
the SD powder formulation for further clinical studies.  
Three specific biopharmaceutical studies were conducted in order to address the issues relating to the 
development of the tablet/capsule formulation in addition to one ‘absolute bioavailability’ study.  
The PK studies in the dossier included: 
• 
Single dose healthy volunteer studies (dose ranging from 15-480mg); 
Single dose in patients; 
• 
•  Multiple dose study in healthy volunteer; 
•  Multiple dose study in patients with heart failure or hyponatraemia 5-60mg; 
• 
Interaction studies (CYP3A4 inhibitors/inducers, substrates and transporters such as P-gp) 
The  analytical  methods  described  included  dissolution  methods.  Four  different  analytical  methods 
were used for analysis of tolvaptan and metabolites and almost all used plasma as the matrix of the 
measurement. For absolute bioavailability studies the HPLC-tandem MS method with high sensitivity 
was used. Most studies assessed the following parameters; Cmax (ng/ml, Tmax (h), AUC∞ (ng.h/ml), t1/2 
and  z  (h).  The  comparisons  were  carried  out  using  geometric  mean  ratios  of  Cmax  and  AUC. 
Additionally,  AUCt,  clearance  (CL)  and  bioavailability  (F)  and  a  ratio  of  CL/F  were  estimated  in 
different studies. 
A population PK model for tolvaptan to estimate the model parameters, assess inter-subject variability 
and evaluate effects of covariates using two core data sets one for heart failure and another for patients 
with  hyponatraemia  of  any  aetiology  was  developed.  An  additional  hyponatraemia  analysis  that 
included  those  with  hyponatraemia  at  baseline  from  either  trial  set  (HypoNa  or  CHF)  was  also 
performed. The covariates investigated for all patients included:  
• 
demographics (age, gender and race),  
body metrics (body weight, lean body mass, BMI),  
liver function,  
renal function (calculated creatinine clearance),  
concomitant medications (diuretics, CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers and P-gp interactions)  
• 
• 
• 
• 
and for hyponatraemia patients:  
• 
the severity of hyponatraemia,  
disease association and  
volume status.  
• 
• 
Page 16 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  covariate  modelling  approach  emphasizing  parameter  estimation  rather  than  stepwise  hypothesis 
testing  was  implemented  for  this  population  PK  analysis.  Where  appropriate  a  bootstrap  procedure 
was used to estimate the uncertainty of the parameter estimates.  
•  Absorption  
Although  tolvaptan  is  poorly  soluble  in  water,  following  single  dose  of  30-480  mg,  it  is  absorbed 
rapidly with a median time to peak plasma concentrations of about 2 hours (range of 1-12 hours) in 
healthy subjects. The mean (SD) of elimination half life is 7.8 (4.9) hours. Cmax increases linearly with 
dose ranging from 30 to 300 mg and a plateau is noted at doses>300mg. The AUC increases linearly 
over the clinical dosing range (15-60mg doses) although at higher doses the Cmax increase is not dose 
proportional.  
The  absolute  bioavailability  is  ~56%  with  close  relative  bioavailability  between  different  dose 
strengths. Food has little effect on the tolvaptan tablet formulations as evidenced by studies using both 
the  high  fat  meal  (FDA  recommended:  >50%  of  calorie  content  from  fat)  or  the  Japanese  standard 
meal.  Both  high  fat  meal  and  a  Japanese  standard  meal  have  similar  effects,  with  no  significant  or 
clinically relevant food effect. 
•  Distribution 
Tolvaptan primarily resides in the plasma rather than red blood cells. Protein binding was extensive at 
98.6% for 14C-labelled tolvaptan obtained from in vitro studies using human materials. In the plasma, 
it  was  bound  mainly  to  serum  albumin  and  α1−acid  glycoprotein.  The  mean  unbound  fraction  was 
higher in patients with liver disease. 
The commercially available form is a racemate with R and S enantiomers and both enantiomers are 
stable  in  plasma.  Both  enantiomers  were  found  to  be  equally  potent  at  the  V2  receptor  in  in  vitro 
binding studies. Following single doses, the concentrations of S (-) enantiomer is consistently higher 
in the plasma. Tolvaptan exhibits a low level of intra-subject variability in healthy volunteers. 
•  Elimination 
After IV administration, a half-life was estimated to be 3.5 hours, but it is suggested that this value 
most  likely  represents  a  distribution  half-life  and  not  a  true  elimination  half-life.  There  is  high 
variability  for  terminal  half-life  values,  mainly  because  the  number  of  points  in  the  terminal 
elimination phase was often insufficient, particularly with the lower doses.  
Tolvaptan  is  metabolised  extensively  in  humans  by  the  CYP3A4/5  system  with  seven  metabolites 
(DM-4103, DM-4104, DM-4105, DM-4107, DM-4110, DM-4111, DM-4119) detected in the plasma, 
urine, and faeces of all subjects in a 14C mass balance study. After administration of [14C]-tolvaptan, 
13 metabolites were identified in human plasma. Tolvaptan and identified metabolites accounted for 
about  70%  of  administered  radioactivity.  The  predominant  metabolite,  with  >50%  of  the  total  dose 
using  the  mass  balance  approach  was  DM-4103.  The  terminal  elimination  half-life  of  DM-4103  is 
~183  hours  and  after  multiple  dosing  DM-4103  shows  accumulation  by  day  28,  but  this  appears 
pharmacologically inactive in the concentrations achieved using clinically relevant doses. Only 3% of 
the radioactivity was due to unchanged tolvaptan in the plasma.   
Data from the mass-balance study show that about 40% of the administered dose was excreted with 
urine  as  unchanged tolvaptan  plus  metabolites; the  parent  drug  was  only  ∼0.2%  of  the administered 
dose.  The  major  analyte  in  urine  was  DM-4107,  which  accounted  for  23%  of  the  excreted 
radioactivity, followed by DM-4111, which accounted for 14.09% of the radioactivity. Tolvaptan and 
several  metabolites  were  also  detected  in  the  faeces.  Metabolites  identified  in  faeces  accounted  for 
about 19% for the administered dose. Therefore, this value estimates the approximate fraction of the 
absorbed dose excreted with the faeces. Renal clearance of tolvaptan is negligible.  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Overall,  there  is  good  dose-proportionality  in  the  range  of  therapeutic  doses.  With  higher  doses, 
absorption rate and BA may decrease, probably due to the limited solubility of the drug.  
The  data  of  both  healthy  subjects  and  heart  failure  patients  indicate  that  there  is  no  or  minimal 
accumulation  of  tolvaptan  following  multiple  administration.  Drug  clearance  also  showed  no  time 
dependency.  
Page 17 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Special populations 
In the target population the PK parameters Cmax and AUC increased linearly with dose for single doses 
10-60 mg of tolvaptan and were higher compared to healthy volunteers. In CHF mean Cmax values are 
1.19  to  1.85-fold  higher  and  mean  AUC  values  are  1.73  to  3.3  fold  higher.  In  liver  disease patients 
(HypoNa) a small increase in Cmax (1.07 to 1.65 fold) and a larger increase for AUC (1.56 to 2.75 fold) 
are noted with single dosing. After multiple dosing (13 days), tolvaptan concentrations also appear to 
accumulate 1.7- to 1.8-fold. 
The applicant used the child-Pugh scoring system in assessing patients with liver disease. Dosing in 
those patients with severe hepatic impairment should be cautious and as experience with Child–Pugh 
Class C is limited; this is reflected in the SPC.  
Tolvaptan  PK  is  not  affected  by  age  and  gender  in  humans  in  the  studies  submitted  (although  in 
animal models a gender difference was noted). The gender variation of this metabolite seen in study 
156-98-202 can be attributed to high variability. Patients with renal impairment have not been studied 
systematically although there are some studies in those with adult polycystic kidney disease. This is 
important missing information as both PK and PD could be different of tolvaptan could be different in 
these subjects. This further discussed in the PD section. The applicant has committed to further studying 
this as a post-authorisation commitment.  
•  Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction studies 
Tolvaptan showed an expected level of interaction with CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers as well as P-
gp substrates-digoxin. Inhibition by ketoconazole caused a 5-fold increase in tolvaptan AUC, a 3-fold 
increase in Cmax, and a 50% increase in half-life. Grapefruit juice increased tolvaptan Cmax by 86% and 
AUC  by  56%.  Consistently,  it  was  found  that the  CYP  inducer  rifampicin  decreased  tolvaptan  Cmax 
and AUCt by 83% and 87%, respectively. The effect of CYP3A4 inhibition or induction on the PK 
parameters varied among metabolites because some of them are also metabolised by CYP3A4.  
No relevant interaction was noted between statins, amiodarone and warfarin with tolvaptan. Caution is 
necessary  when  digoxin  is  administered  concomitantly  (1.3-fold  increase  in  digoxin  maximum 
observed  plasma  concentration).  Tolvaptan  also  increased  the  mean  trough  serum  concentrations  of 
digoxin  at  steady  state  and  decreased  digoxin  renal  clearance  by  59%.  As  such  patients  receiving 
digoxin should be evaluated for excessive digoxin effects when treated with tolvaptan. Finally, the PK 
and PD interactions between tolvaptan and furosemide or hydrochlorothiazide were also studied with 
no  significant  findings.  Tolvaptan  has  not  demonstrated  a  clear  interaction  with  antiplatelet  agents 
(Please see safety section for details). 
Metabolite DM-4103 does not have potential for interaction at steady-state concentrations.  
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Although no true in vitro studies assessed the drug interactions of tolvaptan this is compensated by the 
in vivo studies which have been performed. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic properties of tolvaptan were investigated in:  
• 
four single dose trials with healthy subjects,  
two single dose trials in patients with stable heart failure,  
two multiple dose trials in healthy subjects and,  
three  multiple  dose  trials  in  patients  with  hyponatraemia  secondary  to  liver  disease  and  stable 
heart failure. 
• 
• 
• 
•  Mechanism of action 
Tolvaptan  (OPC-41061)  is  a  vasopressin  antagonist  that  blocks  the  binding  of  arginine  vasopressin 
(AVP)  at  the  V2  receptors  of  the  distal  portions  of  the  nephron.  Animal  pharmacology  studies 
indicated that tolvaptan should increase excretion of water without increasing excretion of electrolytes 
(aquaresis) and thus offer a means of correcting serum sodium concentration by inducing excretion of 
water without loss of serum electrolytes. Tolvaptan is about 29 times more selective for V2 receptors 
than for V1a receptors with virtually no binding to V1b receptors.  
Page 18 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Tolvaptan increased urine excretion at concentrations as low as 25-40 ng/mL; urine volumes for 0 to 2 
hours post-dose following 1 hour IV infusion of tolvaptan are about 66% higher compared to placebo. 
A  maximal  increase  in  urine  excretion  rate  (3-5  times  greater  than  baseline)  appears  to  be  reached 
when tolvaptan concentrations are greater than 150 ng/mL. The offset of tolvaptan action also appears 
to be rapid. Following 60 to 120 mg doses, urine excretion rate returns to baseline values by 26 hours 
post-dose  as  plasma  concentrations  drop  below  25  ng/mL.  Marked  elevations  of  tolvaptan  plasma 
concentrations, much above those achieved with a 60 mg dose produce a sustained, but not a greater 
magnitude  of  response,  as  active  concentrations  of  tolvaptan  are  present  for  longer  periods  of  time. 
Following  28  multiple  dosings,  mean  plasma  AVP  concentrations  were  2-4  pg/mL  higher  for 
tolvaptan-treated subjects compared to placebo. On Day 1, mean 0-24 hour urine volumes were 4825, 
5419  and  2256  mL  for  the  30  mg,  60  mg  and  placebo  groups,  respectively;  on  Day  7,  the  volumes 
were 3974, 4807 and 1342 mL, respectively.  
Similar  effects  were  seen  in  patients  with  heart  failure  and  hyponatraemia.  Following  multiple  oral 
doses of 10 to 120 mg tolvaptan to subjects with stable heart failure, 24-hour urine output on Days 2 
and 3 was about 20% less than observed on Day 1 for the 60, 90 and 120 mg doses. In patients with 
hyponatraemia no dose response was seen for increases in 24-hour fluid volume. Following a single 
dose,  5  mg  produced  no  changes  in  24-hour  urine  volume  and  doses  of  10  to  60  mg  appeared  to 
increase urine volume 1.33- to 2-fold. 
In  patients  with  hyponatraemia  secondary  to  liver  disease  the  increases  in  plasma  sodium 
concentration  and  increases  in  urine  volume  were  roughly  dose-related  over  the  5-60  mg/day  dose 
range. Only the 30 and 60 mg/day doses caused weight losses consistently greater than placebo. In the 
majority  of  cases,  tolvaptan-treated  patients  showed  lower  urine  osmolality  than  placebo-treated 
patients. 
Tolvaptan  significantly  increased  the  effective  renal  plasma  flow  (9%)  and  renal  blood  flow  (10%) 
compared  to  placebo  and  furosemide.  There  were  also  increase  in  glomerular  filtration  rate  (GFR) 
(1.37ml/min) and decrease in renal vascular resistance.  
The fluid balance following tolvaptan in all subjects (healthy volunteers, CHF or liver disease) tended 
to  be  negative  by  day  2.  However,  the  response  showed  large  variability  without  dose  response, 
especially in healthy volunteers:  
•  Dose  dependent  increase  in  ‘Free  water  clearance’-  in  healthy  volunteers  and  CHF  with  the 
magnitude following the same pattern as urine volume (plateau and fall).  
•  Mean AVP concentrations increase variably in the range 2 to 9 pg/mL after single oral doses (30 
to 480 mg) and the increases were highly variable and not dose-dependent.  
•  After  single  oral dose  of tolvaptan (60 to  480  mg),  changes  in plasma  renin  activity  (PRA)  and 
plasma aldosterone were small, highly variable and not dose dependent. 
•  Changes  in  plasma  norepinephrine  concentrations  were  highly  variable  and  were  similar  to 
placebo after single oral dose of tolvaptan ranging from 60 to 480 mg. 
Plasma/ Serum sodium:  
Single  oral  doses  of  tolvaptan  ranging  from  60  to  480  mg,  increased  serum  Na+  concentrations 
approximately 4 to 6 mEq/L at 4 h post-dose and the increase was maintained for at least 24 hours. 
These  were  not  dose-dependent  (similar  to  urine  volume).  The  changes  in  serum  sodium  in  patients 
with  heart  failure  were  assessed  in  7  clinical  trials  including  the  long-term  outcome  trial  that  is 
discussed in the efficacy section. In all trials serum sodium concentrations increased with correction of 
hyponatraemia. Using a pooled analysis of phase-2 studies (4 trials), short term effects on sodium at 
days 1 and 6 and weeks 1 and 2 were similar with increases in serum sodium compared to baseline. 
Short  term  haemodynamic  effects  were  noted  in  those  with  CHF.  Short  term  antagonism  of  the  V2 
vasopressin receptor produces favourable haemodynamic effects in advanced heart failure. Pulmonary 
capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), RAP and PAP were reduced compared to placebo while no effect 
on  cardiac  index,  systemic  vascular  resistance  (SVR)  or  pulmonary  vascular  resistance  (PVR)  were 
Page 19 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
noted. The reduction in PCWP did not show dose dependence but was associated with dose dependent 
increase in urine output and free water clearance.  
Tolvaptan exhibits only a partial relationship between concentration and effect. The explanations may 
include:  a  down  regulation  of  the  V2  receptors  or  a  negative  fluid  balance  after  first  day  of 
administration.  Irrespective  of  the  explanations,  the  clinical  relevance  of  this  is  that  the  optimal 
clinical  dose  range  varies from  15-60 mg.  A  maximal  increase  in  urine  excretion  rate  appears  to  be 
reached when tolvaptan concentrations are greater than 150 ng/mL.  It should be noted that although 
plasma concentrations are still greater than 150 ng/mL at 24 hours following doses of or greater than 
180 mg, urine output is considerably less from 24 to 48 hours than compared to the first 24 hours. 
As would be anticipated, there is some pharmacodynamic interaction between tolvaptan and diuretics. 
An increase in free water clearance and urine volume were higher, but urine osmolality lower. Free 
water clearance was increased following tolvaptan administration alone and in combination with either 
furosemide  or  hydrochlorothiazide  (HCTZ).  Co-administration  with  furosemide  or  HCTZ  did  not 
change  the  effect  of  tolvaptan.  There  does  not  appear  to  be  any  clinically  relevant,  unexpected 
potentiation,  permitting  the  concomitant  use  of  tolvaptan  with  these  agents.  Tolvaptan  appeared  to 
augment the increase in PRA elicited by furosemide, but not that elicited by HCTZ. It is considered 
that tolvaptan increases K+ excretion but affects PRA minimally. Data from pivotal trials did not show 
any  clinically  relevant  reduction  in  dose,  frequency  of  administration  of  either  loop  diuretics  or 
antimineralocorticoid diuretics. This is surprising given the aquaretic effect of tolvaptan, but is likely 
to have been influenced by the fact that diuretic doses were investigator determined.  
Patients with renal impairment have not been studied systematically although there are some studies in 
those  with  adult  polycystic  kidney  disease.  Data  from  the  EVEREST  trial  (Efficacy  of  Vasopressin 
antagonism in hEart failure: outcome Study with Tolvaptan) show that the efficacy parameters did not 
differ in this study based on the classification of subjects in accordance to GFR values of >60ml, 60-
30  ml  and  <30ml.  Based  on  the  data  from  pivotal  trials,  the  effect  of  tolvaptan  shows  a  decreasing 
trend in most parameters (free water excretion, urine osmolality change and change in serum sodium) 
as renal function decreases. This analysis is limited due to the fact that there were few subjects in the 
pivotal trials who had severe renal dysfunction (GFR <30ml/min).  
Similar findings were seen in relation to the adverse event rates. However, the small numbers (n=286) 
make definitive conclusion difficult. Those with GFR <30 ml show a trend towards less effect in most 
parameters or numerically worse outcome. In the safety analysis, a comparison of parameters between 
GFR<50 ml  and  30-60 ml  is  made  and  here,  blood  urea  nitrogen  (BUN)  rose  considerably  in  those 
with GFR 30-60 ml in both heart failure and cirrhosis. Cirrhotic subjects showed a greater increase in 
potassium  in  the  same  GFR  subgroup.  It  stands  to  reason  that  in  chronic  kidney  disease  there  is  a 
reduction in nephron numbers (and consequently the distal tubule) and consequently there is likely to 
be a reduction in V2 receptor density. As stated above the applicant agrees on the need to study those 
with severe renal impairment in a PK-PD study as a post-authorisation follow up measure. 
Clinical efficacy  
The tolvaptan clinical program for hyponatraemia consists of 6 trials:  
• 
two placebo-controlled phase 3 trials,  
three placebo-controlled phase 2 trials and,  
one open-label phase 3 trial.  
• 
• 
The  efficacy  of  tolvaptan  in  the  treatment  of  hyponatraemia  was  evaluated  in  three  phase  3 
hyponatraemia trials: 
• 
pivotal trials (156-02-235 and 156-03-238),  
one open-label trial (156-03-244)  
• 
and two phase 2 hyponatraemia trials (156-96-203 and 156-97-204).  
Page 20 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  tolvaptan  doses  investigated  in  hyponatraemia  subjects  were  fixed  doses  of  5,  10,  15,  30,  and 
60 mg QD and titrated doses among 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 mg QD. In all but 2 of the hyponatraemia 
trials (156-96-201 and 156-96-203), tolvaptan doses were titrated based on serum sodium response.  
There were 6 heart failure trials having subpopulations of hyponatraemic subjects: 
• 
one phase 3 heart failure trial (156-03-236) and  
five phase 2 heart failure trials (156-97-251, 156-97-252, 156-00-220, 156-01-232, 156-98-213).  
• 
The hyponatraemic subgroup from the heart failure trials were evaluated as supportive data. A phase 2 
hyponatraemia trial (156-96-201) was stopped due to lack of enrolment and this trial is not included 
because it evaluated a dose lower than the range of interest. With the exception of the open-label phase 
3 hyponatraemia trial (156-03-244) and an open-label active-controlled (fluid restriction with placebo) 
phase  2  hyponatraemia  trial  (156-97-204);  all  of  these  trials  were  of  a  randomized,  double-blind, 
multiple dose, placebo-controlled design. The figure and table below lists the clinical efficacy trials for 
tolvaptan for hyponatraemia in further detail. 
Organization of Trials for 
Hyponatraemia
List of Clinical Efficacy Trials of Tolvaptan for Hyponatraemia  
Protocol # 
Trial 
Location 
Trial Phase # 
Sites  
Trial 
Objective 
Trial 
Duration  
Trial 
Design 
and 
Choice of 
Control  
156-02-235  
United 
Phase 3  
42 sites  
States 
Efficacy,  
safety, 
PK 30 days  
and 
R, DB, PC, 
Parallel  
Subjects 
By  Arm 
Entered/ 
Completed 
102/75 
103/62  
Trial 
Drug 
Dose, 
Route, 
and 
Regimen 
PO 
Tol 
QD  
(15  mg 
start  dose, 
titrated  as 
needed 
15,  30,  or 
60 mg)  
PLA  QD 
(titrated)  
Gender 
(%) 
Race 
(%) 
Mean 
Age 
(Range) 
(years)  
44.4% F  
71.7% 
Caucasian; 
14.6% 
Black;  
10.7% 
Hispanic; 
1.5% 
Asian;  
1.5% 
Other  
60 (18-90) 
Primary 
Efficacy  
Diagnosis 
Main 
Inclusion 
Criteria  
Average  daily 
AUC  
Na+ 
concentrations 
up  to  Days  4 
and 30.  
Serum Na+  
135 
< 
mEq/L. 
~ 
50%  subjects 
w/serum  Na 
+  of  <  130 
mEq/L 
at 
baseline 
w/CHF, 
cirrhosis, 
SIADH, etc;  
Page 21 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
156-03-238  
Multinational 
Phase 3  
72 sites  
safety, 
PK 30 days  
and 
PC, 
DB, 
Parallel  
156-96-203 
United 
Phase 2  
7 sites  
States 
Efficacy, 
safety, 
PK 13 days  
and 
R(2:1), 
DB,  ,  PC, 
sequential-
cohort, 
ascending-
dose  
156-96-201 
United 
Phase 2  
3 sites  
States 
Efficacy, 
safety, PK Up 
to 9 days  
R, DB, PC, 
Sequential 
dose-
ranging  
156-97-204 
United 
Phase 2  
24 sites  
States 
and 
Efficacy 
safety, 
dosing 
characteristics  
Up to 26 days  
Rand (2:1), 
O-L,  A-C 
(PLA  with 
fluid 
restriction), 
dose 
titration  
123/89 
120/85  
6/2  
6/4  
6/4  
6/4  
6/4  
15/9  
6/5  
3/3  
17/6  
11/2  
TOL  PO 
QD  
(15  mg 
starting 
dose, 
titrated  as 
needed 
among  to 
30,  or  60 
mg)  
PLAQD 
(titrated)  
Tolvaptan 
Tablets 
PO QD: 5 
mg 10 mg 
15  mg  30 
mg 60 mg 
Placebo 
QD  
TOL  PO 
5  mg  QD 
mg 
10 
15 
QD 
mg QD  
30 
QD  
PLA QD  
mg 
10 
15 
30 
45 
and 
mg 
Tablets 
PO 
mg, 
mg, 
mg, 
mg, 
60 
QD 
(titrated to 
effect) 
Placebo 
QD  
AUC  change 
BL 
from 
serum  Na+ 
concentrations 
up to Day 4 or 
30.  
Plasma 
sodium 
concentrations 
Plasma 
sodium 
concentrations 
Serum 
Na 
concentrations 
39.1%F  
93.4% 
Caucasian; 
1.6% 
Black;  
3.7% 
Hispanic;  
0.4% 
Asian  
0.8% 
Other  
63 (27-
100)  
28.9% 
female 
71.1% 
Caucasian; 
24.2% 
Hispanic; 
2.2% 
Black;  
2.2% 
Other  
52 (37-73) 
44.4% 
female 
77.8% 
Caucasian; 
22.2% 
Hispanic 
Tolvaptan: 
56 
Placebo: 
57  
42.9% 
female 
78.6% 
Caucasian; 
14.3% 
Black; 
7.1% 
Hispanic  
67 (41-88) 
at 
Na  serum  < 
135  
mEq/L 
baseline.  
~  50%  of 
subjects  had 
serum  Na  < 
130 mEq/L at 
baseline. 
CHF,  
cirrhosis, 
SIADH, etc;  
liver  disease 
≥30 days,  
Child-Pugh 
score  <  10. 
Plasma 
Na+125-135 
mEq/L. 
Plasma 
K+3.4-5.0 
mEq/L 
Peripheral 
edema and/or 
ascites.  
Hospitalized 
adults 
w/ 
hyponatremia 
secondary  to 
CHF.  
Serum  Na  < 
135 mEq/L,  
normal  ECF 
or  evidence 
of 
extracellular 
volume 
expansion.  
The heart failure programme included a total of 7 multiple-dose placebo-controlled safety and efficacy 
trials: 
• 
six phase 2 trials and  
one pivotal phase 3 trial 
• 
plus 1 supportive phase 2 single-dose haemodynamics trial. The tabulated list is shown below.  
Page 22 of 49 
 
 
 
 
Summary table of heart failure programme  
Study 
ID  
Study 
Posology  
Study 
Objective  
Design  
No. of 
centres / 
locations  
Subjs 
by arm  
Duration  Gender  
M/F  
Median 
Age  
Diagnosis  
Incl. 
criteria  
Primary 
Endpoint 
03-236   Multi  
R, DB, Pl  
Embedded  
T30 Vs 
PLA  
Mort/Morb 
Pivotal Study  
2072/ 
2061  
Min 60 
days  
3075/1058,  
60y  
CHF  
Mort, 
morb  
01-232  
US,  
38  
US, Arg,  
       46 
00-220   US, Arg, 
98-213 
00-222  
00-251  
97-252  
67  
US  
18  
US  
10  
US  
30  
R,DB, PC   T30, PlA  
Supportive studies  
Card 
Remodel  
120/arm 
54 wks  
R,DB, PC 
T30-90, P 
Phs-2; Eff 
61 days 
196/44  
64 y  
224/95 
62 y 
R,DB,PC  
R,DB,PC 
& Furo  
R(2:1), 
DB, PC,  
R,DB,PC  
T15-60, 
P  
T30, PL, 
Fu 80  
T10-120. 
Pl,  
T30-60  
Phs-2: Eff  
82/arm  
169 days 
Phs-2; Eff  
20/arm  
7 days  
Dose 
ranging  
Dose 
ranging  
Haemo  
6 /arm  
13 days  
64/arm  
25 days  
44/arm  
SD  
223/107,  
65 y  
67/16,  
59 y  
34/21,  
64y  
163/91, 67  
144/37, 
60y  
CHF III-IV 
CHF/LVD  
LV vol 
reduction 
LVF 
Worsening 
CHF II-III   Clinical 
status  
Chng in 
BW  
BW chng 
day 1 & 3 
BW on 
day 14  
PCWP, 
3-8 hrs  
CHF 
+HyperVol  
CHF  
CHF  
CHF  
04-257   Multi  
R,DB.PC  
T15-60  
48  
96-201  
US  
R 
(2:1),DB, 
PC, Seq  
•  Dose response studies 
T5, 10, 15, 
30  
Additional study  
Eff- Hypo 
in CHF  
6 + 3  
4 days  
CHF + hypo   Clinical + 
Na+  
In  the  heart  failure  programme  there  were  two  main  dose  response  studies  and  one  haemodynamic 
study forming the basis of the dose recommendation in the pivotal study and for the proposed clinical 
use.  
Study 97-252  
Four groups of 60 subjects were randomly assigned to receive 30, 45, or 60 mg of tolvaptan or placebo 
daily  for  25  days  in  this  dose  defining  trial.  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  change  from 
baseline in body weight.  
Mean decreases from baseline in body weight, were observed on Day 1 of tolvaptan treatment at all 
doses  and  were  maintained  throughout  the trial. These  changes  (mean decreases  of  0.35  to  1.02  kg) 
were statistically significantly different from that of placebo (mean increases of 0.32 to 0.59 kg). All 
three tolvaptan doses decreased urine osmolality at all time points with statistically lower (p < 0.05) 
urine  sodium  concentrations.  Tolvaptan  at  all three  doses  produced  small,  but  significant  (p <  0.05) 
increases  (<  4  mEq/L)  in  mean  serum  sodium  concentrations.  Neither  the  QoL  assessment  nor  the 
cardiovascular  assessment  scores  showed  differences  between  the  tolvaptan  dose  groups  and  the 
placebo group.  
Study 00-251  
Six groups of subjects were randomized in the following order: 10, 15, 30, 60, 90, and 120 mg. In each 
treatment group, 6 subjects received tolvaptan and 3 subjects received placebo except for the 10 and 
120 mg  groups.  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  change  from  baseline  in  body  weight,  while 
urine osmolality, urine volume, and urine sodium excretion were the secondary efficacy variables.  
Overall mean decreases from baseline were observed in the tolvaptan treatment groups at doses of 15 
to  120  mg  (body  weight;  -0.1  to  -2.9  kg)  and  in  the  placebo  group  (-0.2  to  -1.9  kg)  during  the 
treatment period.  
Study 04-257 (haemodynamic study) 
In  this  study  doses  of  15,  30  and  60 mg  were  compared  in  ~180  subjects  (44  in  each  arm)  with 
baseline  PCWP  >  18  mm  Hg.  Haemodynamic  measurements  and  PK  samples  were  obtained  for  8 
hours (and optionally for up to 24 hours). The main outcome measures included PCWP, right arterial 
Page 23 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
pressure (RAP), pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP), cardiac index and systemic vascular resistance in 
addition to urine volume, urine osmolality, and free water clearance.  
The primary statistical analysis for the overall comparison among the treatment groups of placebo and 
of  30  and  60  mg  tolvaptan  approached  statistical  significance  (F-test,  p  =  0.0563).  The  pair-wise 
comparisons  of  15,  30,  and  60  mg  tolvaptan  versus  placebo  each  showed  a  statistically  significant 
decrease  in  peak  change  in  PCWP  from  3  to  8  hours  post-dose  (p  =  0.0027,  p  =  0.0443,  and  p  = 
0.0328, respectively). No significant differences between the tolvaptan doses were seen with respect to 
the  magnitude  of  the  peak  change  in  PCWP  relative  to  placebo.  The  absence  of  a  reduction  in 
peripheral  resistance  and  cardiac  index  suggests  that  the  favourable  effect  of  tolvaptan  on  filling 
pressures is secondary to the enhanced urine output. 
The conclusion from the dose response studies is that they provide a rather limited evidence for dose 
response  and  doses  studied.  Some  evidence  that  30  and  60 mg  doses  produce  an  effect  is  shown 
although the dose response slope is likely to be flat. This is evidenced best in the haemodynamic study 
where the reduction in PCWP or RAP and PAP were not dose dependent. Tolvaptan has a clear effect 
on  urine  volume,  serum  sodium  and  osmolality  with  potential  for  benefit  in  those  ‘difficult  to  treat 
patients’ with heart failure.  
In  general  the  dose  response  studies  in  the  hyponatraemia  programme  are  similar  to  heart  failure 
programme. As previously highlighted, with single oral doses of tolvaptan ranging from 60 to 480 mg, 
serum Na+ concentrations increased approximately 4 to 6 mEq/L at 4 h post-dose and the increase was 
maintained for at least 24 hours. Most hyponatraemia studies used the dose titration scheme.  
All hyponatraemia trials evaluated tolvaptan doses between 15 and 60 mg in subjects having baseline 
serum sodium concentrations < 135 mEq/L. Lower doses were also evaluated in two phase 2 trials (5 
and  10  mg  in  Trial  156-96-203  and  10  mg  in  Trial  156-97-204).  Fixed  doses  of  5,  10,  15,  30,  and 
60 mg were used in one phase 2 trial (156-96-203).  
Study 156-96-203  
This  study  was  designed  to  assess  the  efficacy,  safety,  and  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  of  daily 
doses  of  up  to  five  dosage  levels  of  tolvaptan  in  subjects  with  hyponatraemia  secondary  to  liver 
disease. Five groups of 9 subjects were randomized on Day 1 into the following dose groups: 5, 10, 15, 
30, and 60 mg. In each treatment group, 6 subjects received tolvaptan QD and 3 subjects received a 
matching  placebo  QD.  The  subjects  were  hospitalized  during  the  first  four  days  of  treatment.  Dose 
escalation was evaluated at the completion of each dose group.  
The conclusion obtained from the hyponaraemia dose finding studies is that tolvaptan, at doses of 5, 
10, 15, 30, and 60 mg QD resulted in higher mean increases in plasma sodium compared to placebo. 
Tolvaptan  at  doses  of  30  and  60  mg  was  associated  with  consistently  greater  body  weight  loss 
compared  to  placebo;  however,  at  doses of  5,  10,  and  15  mg  was  associated  with  inconsistent  body 
weight loss. 
•  Main studies  
HYPONATRAEMIA PROGRAMME 
Pivotal Studies: SALT 1 and SALT 2 
• 
• 
Study 156-02-235: Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, efficacy and safety 
study  of  the  effects  of  titrated  oral  tolvaptan  tablets  in  patients  with  hyponatremia.  “SALT  1 
TRIAL” (Sodium Assessment with Increasing Levels of Tolvaptan in Hyponatremia 1) 
Study  156-03-238:  International,  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled, 
efficacy  and  safety  study  of  the  effects  of  titrated  oral  tolvaptan  tablets  in  patients  with 
hyponatremia.  “SALT  2  TRIAL”  (Sodium  Assessment  with  Increasing  Levels  of  Tolvaptan  in 
Hyponatremia 2) 
Page 24 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Subjects were males or females 18 years of age or older. In both trials, the subjects enrolled had non-
acute  euvolemic  or  hypervolemic  hyponatraemia,  defined  as  serum  sodium  <135  mEq/L  (mmol/L) 
irrespective of aetiology (including CHF, liver disease or Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion 
[SIADH]).  
Among other exclusion criteria, subjects were excluded if they were hypovolemic; had hyponatraemia 
due  to  head  trauma,  post-operative  state,  medicinal  therapy  that  could  be  safely  withdrawn  (e.g. 
thiazide  diuretics),  laboratory  artefacts  or  psychogenic  polydipsia;  received  other  treatment  for 
hyponatraemia (demeclocycline, lithium carbonate or urea); or required intravenous saline for severe 
hyponatraemia.  
Treatments 
Subjects are initially randomized to tolvaptan 15 mg once daily or placebo. The dose was individually 
optimized for each subject: the initial dose of tolvaptan could be increased to 30 mg and then 60 mg, if 
the response to the previous dose was inadequate (i.e. if the change in serum sodium level from the 
previous measurement was < 5 mEq/L and if the sodium concentration remained < 135 mEq/L). 
Objectives 
These two pivotal phase 3 trials were identical in design. The primary objective was to demonstrate 
that  tolvaptan  is  a  safe,  effective,  and  useful  agent  for  achieving  and  maintaining  increased  serum 
sodium for the treatment of non-hypovolemic hyponatraemia arising from a variety of aetiologies over 
a 30-day treatment period in both trials. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  change  from  baseline  in  mean  daily  AUC  of  serum  sodium 
concentration. AUC provided a more complete picture than a single point measurement.  
Secondary  end-points  include  other  serum  sodium  parameters  and  clinical  endpoints  such  as  body 
weight change (for hypervolemic subjects), health status (SF-12 questionnaire), percentage of subjects 
requiring fluid restriction 24 hour urine volume, 24 hour fluid intake, hyponatraemia disease specific 
survey,  neurological  examination  and  symptoms  and  signs,  and  percentage  of  treatment  failures 
requiring saline infusion. 
Sample size 
It was calculated that a sample of 100 patients per group would yield more than 90% power (with a 
two-sided significance level  of  0.025) to detect a mean (±SD) between-group difference of 1.99±2.7 
mmol of sodium per liter in the change from baseline to day 4 and of  3.00±3.28 mmol of sodium per 
liter  from  baseline  to  day  30.With  similar  assumptions,  the  inclusion  of  50  patients  with  marked 
hyponatraemia in each  group would yield 90% power (with a two-sided significance level of 0.05).  
Randomisation 
Subjects satisfying the study entry criteria were randomized at Day 1. Randomization was performed 
in  a  1:1  ratio  (tolvaptan  15  mg  or  placebo).  Randomization  was  stratified  based  on  the  subject’s 
baseline serum sodium level (< 130 mEq/L and 130-134 mEq/L) with a target of 50% of the subjects 
having a serum sodium value of < 130 mEq/L.  
The second stratification was based on the subject’s underlying disease state (CHF or non-CHF) with 
no aetiology representing more than 50% of the subjects. 
Blinding (masking) 
Subjects  received  tolvaptan  or  matching  placebo  in  a  randomized,  double-blinded  fashion.  Study 
medication was supplied for each subject in monthly kits per randomization number, each labeled with 
a two-panel double-blind disclosure label specifying the treatment assignment in the concealed portion 
of the label. The study drug was packaged so that each subject received an identical number of tablets 
regardless of the treatment group assignment. All tablets were identical in appearance.  
Page 25 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
The change in the average daily AUC for the serum sodium concentration from baseline to day 4 and 
from  baseline  to  day  30  (the  two  primary  end  points)  was  calculated  as  the  AUC  for  each  patient, 
divided by the observation period (4 or 30 days), minus the baseline value. The sodium changes in the 
two  study  groups  were  compared  with  an  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  model  in  which  the 
group assignment and baseline stratification factors were covariates.  
Serum  sodium  concentrations  were  compared  between  study  groups  with  the  use  of  the  ANCOVA 
model  and  the  covariates  noted  above.  The  percentage  of  patients  in  whom  serum  sodium 
concentrations normalized (>135 mmol per liter) or fluid restriction was used was analyzed with the 
Cochran–Mantel–Haenszel  test  and  the  baseline  stratification  factors.  Shifts  comparison  in  the 
categorical change in hyponatraemia in the two groups with the use of the Cochran–Mantel–Haenszel 
mean  score  test,  was  performed  by  using  a  modified  ridit  score  (van  Elteren  test),  with  cause  as  a 
stratification factor.  
This analysis was performed separately for subgroups of patients classified at baseline as having mild 
hyponatraemia (a serum sodium concentration of 130 to 134 mmol per liter) or marked hyponatraemia 
(<130  mmol  per  liter).  Categories  after  treatment  were  defined  as  normal,  mild,  and  marked,  as 
described above, with the range for mild conservatively extended to a serum sodium concentration of 
135 mmol per liter for this analysis. 
The time to normalization of the serum sodium concentration was analyzed with the use of a log-rank 
test. Fluid loss, fluid intake, and fluid balance (total intake minus total output) on day 1 were evaluated 
with the use of an analysis-of-variance model, with the assigned study group and baseline stratification 
factors as covariates.  
The Physical Component Summary (PCS) and Mental Component Summary (MCS) scales of the SF-
12 Health Survey (ranges, 5 to 69 for the physical component and 8 to 73 for the mental component, 
with higher scores indicating better functioning) were derived with the use of weights provided in the 
SF-12 Health Survey manual. The SF-12 Health Survey was chosen as a patient-reported outcome for 
overall  health  status  because  it  has  been  validated  in  numerous  clinical  studies.  The  physical 
component assesses physical functioning, bodily pain, physically limited accomplishment, and general 
health,  and  the  mental  component  assesses  vitality,  social  functioning,  emotionally  limited 
accomplishment, calmness, and sadness. The absolute shift from baseline of 5 units was considered a 
clinically important difference. Changes from baseline scores were analyzed in the pooled database of 
the  SALT-1  and  SALT-2  trials  with  an  ANCOVA  model,  with  the  assigned  study  group,  baseline 
stratification factors, and baseline scores as covariates. All reported P values are two-sided.  
Page 26 of 49 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
SALT 1:  
Date of first signed informed consent: 11 Apr 2003 
Date of last study observation: 20 Dec 2005 
SALT 2: 
Date of first signed informed consent: 20 Nov 2003 
Date of last study observation: 06 Jul 2005 
Conduct of the study 
There  were  3  amendments  to  the  protocol,  with  multiple  changes  in  primary  end  point,  exclusion 
criteria, clarification about patient population (e.g. diabetic patients ) and procedures It is noted that 
these changes were made early in the study and it likely that these changes improved the accuracy and 
quality of the results. There is no evidence to suggest these changes biased the results or had an impact 
on the integrity of the study. 
Page 27 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
In general the baseline characteristics were sufficiently balanced between two groups. For the pooled 
data, there were more men (59%) than women (42%), and the average age of subjects was 62 years. 
The table below gives further details on the demographic and baseline characteristics of the patients in 
the SALT 1 and SALT 2 studies. 
The pooled data for the 2 pivotal trials were analyzed according to 3 subject groups: CHF, cirrhosis, 
and SIADH/other.  
Aetiology 
Percentage of Total Population 
SALT-1 
SALT-2 
Pooled 
CHF 
Cirrhosis 
SIADH/other 
32.1% 
23.2% 
40.2% 
28.6% 
31.2% 
40.2% 
30.2% 
27.6% 
42.2% 
SIADH 
-  Syndrome  of 
inappropriate  antidiuretic  hormone  secretion;  CHF 
-  Congestive  heart 
failure 
Numbers analysed 
Of  the  424  randomized  subjects  in  the  2  trials  (216  tolvaptan,  208  placebo)  with  data,  311  (73%) 
completed the trials (164 tolvaptan, 147 placebo) and 113 (52 tolvaptan, 61 placebo) were withdrawn 
prior to completion.  
There are no important differences between treatment groups in either the reasons for or the timing of 
withdrawals. 
Page 28 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
In  both  trials and the  pooled  analysis, serum  sodium  concentrations improved  significantly  for all 3 
disease  groups  when  compared  to  placebo.  Serum  sodium  normalized  (>135  mEq/L)  in  more  than 
50%  of  subjects  treated  with  tolvaptan.  The  results  were  similar  in  subjects  with  mild  and  severe 
hyponatraemia. The biggest difference compared to placebo was seen for the SIADH/Other subjects. 
Increased serum sodium AUC was seen both on day 4 and day 30 irrespective of the volume status. 
The  overall  magnitude  of  change  was  greater  for  the  euvolemic  subjects  and  this  stands  to  reason 
(hypervolemic subjects likely to have different extracellular fluid [ECF] and intracellular fluid [ICF] 
sodium  distribution  with  dilutional  effect  in  the  ECF).  Understandably  those  with  severe 
hyponatraemia had a slower response (less change from baseline in comparison to mild group on the 
same time point). The serum sodium changes based on aetiology can be found in the table below: 
In hypervolemic subjects, there was a clinically relevant and statistically significant improvement in 
fluid balance in both trials. The urine output was consistently and statistically significantly greater in 
the tolvaptan group than the placebo group in the pooled analysis, regardless of aetiology. Fluid intake 
was also greater in the tolvaptan group compared with placebo in the pooled analysis; however, the 
difference from  placebo  was  not  as  large  and  was  statistically  significant for  subjects  with  cirrhosis 
(554  mL;  p  =  0.0030),  but  not  for  those  with  CHF  or  SIADH/other.  Statistically  significant  greater 
mean  decreases  in  body  weight  were  observed  in hypervolemic  subjects  at  Days  2,  3,  and  4 for the 
tolvaptan group compared with the placebo group in SALT-1 and in the pooled analysis (p ≤ 0.0311). 
A  sustained  effect  was  not  observed  beyond  Day  4  in  SALT-1  or  in  the  pooled  analysis,  and  no 
statistically significant differences in body weight were observed between the tolvaptan and placebo 
groups in SALT-2.  
The ‘fluid balance status’ results suggest favourable effects of tolvaptan in comparison to placebo. The 
fluid balance, urine output and fluid intake were all significantly different in both SALT-1 and SALT-
2  trials  between  placebo  and  tolvaptan,  as  shown  above.  The  small  differences  between  different 
Page 29 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aetiologies  notwithstanding,  the  overall  results  suggests  that  tolvaptan  favourably  influences  the 
sodium  and  fluid  balance across  aetiologies  and  across  varied  volemic  states.  The  lack  of  statistical 
significance of fluid intake in euvolemic subjects is based on the physiological differences in reasons 
for hyponatraemia. The body weight data are inconsistent and thus do not support the assertion that all 
secondary analysis are in line with the clinical relevance of correction of serum sodium. 
Mental  status  was  assessed  using  the  Mental  Component  Summary  of  the  SF-12  Health  Survey, 
evaluated  at  Day  30  compared  to  baseline.  The  analyses  of  these  results  were  pre-specified  as 
combined  analyses  on  the  pooled  data  from  the  SALT  trials.  The  results  provide  evidence  that 
improvements in SF-12 MCS scores related to and were associated with changes in serum sodium (see 
figure  below). The  overall  group  (all  3  aetiologies) when  pooled  showed  that MCS  score  suggested 
improvement and the effect size was greater than the MID (minimally important difference; published 
by  Ware  et  al  or  Cohen  &  colleagues  independently).  Similar  results  were  seen  across  different 
volume states (euvolemic or hypervolemic) in comparison to placebo. When the three aetiologies were 
analysed  separately  (although  these  were  not  individually  powered  to  find  a  difference),  there  were 
statistically  significant  improvements  in  mental  status  (MCS)  on  Day  30  for  tolvaptan  compared  to 
placebo (p = 0.0129) for subjects with SIADH/Other in the pooled analysis. Similar results were found 
in those with cirrhosis for the ITT populations using the LOCF approach or all inclusive approach. In 
those with CHF the survey results were not statistically significant but showed a trend. This has been 
argued to be due to baseline imbalances noted with the MCS score in those with CHF and the method 
of analysis (using ANCOVA) assuming a linear relationship between baseline findings and effect size. 
Different statistical methodologies used to analyse this effect size appear to show that the effect size in 
CHF is of the similar magnitude here as in SIADH or Cirrhosis. 
Table-4: Effect sizes for SF-12 MCS at D-30 using various statistical models  
   (Pooled SALT population) 
Statistical model 
Effect size (p-value) 
CHF 
SIADH/Other 
Cirrhosis 
ANCOVA (linear relationship) 
1.24 (0.5825) 
2.95 (0.0886) 
4.22 (0.0339) 
ANOVA (no adjustment) 
4.25 (0.1076) 
2.78 (0.1658) 
4.70 (0.0442) 
ANCOVA (quadratic relationship) 
ANCOVA (baseline categoriesa) 
1.34 (0.5547) 
2.86 (0.1010) 
4.35 (0.0276) 
2.69 (0.3033) 
4.12 (0.0481) 
3.09 (0.1551) 
a - Baseline MCS groups: <25, 25-<30, 30-<35, 35-<40, 40-<45, 45-<50, 50-<55, 55-<60, >60. 
In  CHF  and  cirrhosis,  assessment  of  mental  status  might  be  limited  by  a  number  of  confounding 
factors  such  as  poor  circulation  in  severe  heart  failure  and  accumulation  of  toxic  metabolites 
associated with liver disease. In SALT-2 an additional analysis of the Hyponatraemia Disease-specific 
Survey  (HDS)  was  performed.  The  findings  support  the  SF-12  Health  Survey,  i.e.,  significant 
improvement  in  questions  focusing  on  mental  functioning,  which  was  particularly  evident  on 
Page 30 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
correction  of  severe  hyponatraemia,  and  a  lesser  effect  on  physical  (strength/endurance)  symptoms. 
The  HDS  survey  has  not  been  validated  in  any  other  study  and  thus  its  value  here  was  considered 
limited.  
The  major  issue  with  the  hyponatraemia  indication  was  assessed  as  being  the  lack  of  clear  patient 
oriented  benefit  related  to correction  of  serum  sodium  values  as there  were  a number  of  difficulties 
with the MCS analysis and HDS provided. This concern was considered a major objection during the 
procedure  and  was  addressed  in  an  oral  explanation.  The  applicant  argued  that  tolvaptan  effect  is 
consistent  across  the  aetiologies  for  normalisation  of  sodium,  for  urine  output  and  for  overall  fluid 
balance  (primary  and  secondary  efficacy  parameters).  Similar  results  were  seen  across  different 
volume states in comparison to placebo. The applicant further argues that the improvements in SF-12 
MCS scores related to and were associated with changes in serum sodium in the pooled analysis.  
However,  it  was  considered  that  there  was  not  sufficient  evidence  available  that  correction  of 
hyponatraemia is of clinical relevance in all the populations studied. The applicant’s analysis suggests 
that  tolvaptan  treated  subjects  had  less  worsening  of  sodium  overtime  within  the  study  and  such 
preventive  measures  could  be  important  in  the  patient  groups  under  discussion.  A  clear  withdrawal 
effect  is  noted  suggesting  that  underlying  disease  and  co-morbidity  play  a  significant  role  in  the 
clinical  picture  of  hyponatraemia.  Additionally,  the  Nervous  system  effects  were  not  assessed 
objectively.  
The MCS analysis (especially in CHF and to a lesser extent in cirrhosis) is confounded by the factors 
mentioned and also by statistical analysis problems. Firstly, a multiplicity issue: MCS by (SF12) was 
not specified in the statistical analysis plan as a key secondary end point but was one of several. Some 
of these secondary end points showed benefit and others, such as physical component score-PCS, did 
not. The lack of such specification limits its use as a key secondary end point that shows benefit as a 
direct correlate or consequence of increase in serum sodium values. The second difficult aspect is that 
the effect size in CHF is smaller than the other two aetiologies (SIADH and Cirrhosis). The applicant 
claimed that the secondary endpoints are only supportive and not intended to support specific claims. 
As stated above, additional analyses showed the possibility that the effect size may have been similar 
in  all  three  aetiologies  (see  table  above).  In  terms  of  the  multiplicity  issues  surrounding  the  MCS 
endpoint, even though the vast majority of secondary endpoints showed significant effects in favour of 
tolvaptan, it cannot be accepted that the interpretation of the results are not affected by multiplicity. 
Due to the fact that a hierarchy was not put in place to test the secondary endpoints it cannot formally 
be concluded that a statistically significant effect has been demonstrated on the MCS endpoint.       
Additional benefit of Tolvaptan in CHF 
An  additional  post-hoc  analysis  of  the  hyponatraemia  subset  from  the  EVEREST  trial  (outcome  of 
trial  discussed  in  Heart  Failure  Programme)  was  performed  in  order  to  support  the  hyponatraemia 
indication in this subgroup. In patients with hyponatraemia at baseline, there was a general trend for 
tolvaptan  to  be  better  than  standard  care  (SC)  alone  for  “time  to  all-cause  mortality”,  “time  to  first 
occurrence of cardiovascular mortality or heart failure hospitalisation”, and “time to first occurrence of 
CV mortality or CV morbidity”. With respect to time to first occurrence of CV mortality or morbidity 
the  beneficial  effects  of  tolvaptan  in  patients  with  serum  sodium  <130mEq/L  achieved  statistical 
significance (p=0.04). In hyponatraemic patients with worsening heart failure, tolvaptan as add-on to 
SC clearly demonstrated improvements in serum sodium levels that were statistically superior to SC 
alone for up to 40 weeks. Similar results were noted for normalisation of sodium in the same groups. 
In addition, tolvaptan (n=203) resulted in greater percentages of patients achieving “less worsening” in 
serum sodium levels compared to SC (n=176) alone (22.2 vs. 37.5%; p<0.01). Tolvaptan as add-on to 
SC treatment demonstrated greater improvements in the “Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire” 
(KCCQ) score. Again, as was the case for mortality/morbidity, greater effects were observed in those 
patients  with  more  severe  hyponatraemia  at  baseline  (serum  sodium  levels  <130  mEq/L).  For  the 
KCCQ treatment effect, there were improvements in KCCQ that met or exceeded the thresholds for 
small and moderate improvements (according to Cohen) in clinical change at each of the assessment 
time points.  
Although these additional analyses appear to favour tolvaptan use in CHF+ hyponatraemic population, 
the  differences  are  based  on  small  populations/subgroups  (n=92,  Serum  Na  <130mEq/L)  and  are  of 
Page 31 of 49 
 
 
 
 
limited value in establishing its utility in the overall population without restriction of serum sodium 
level.  
Long term effects (Duration of treatment with tolvaptan) - SALTWATER trial - 156-03-244 
The  benefits  of  tolvaptan  treatment  achieved  in  the  SALT  trials  were  maintained  in  all  3  disease 
aetiology  groups  for  durations  exceeding  1  year  in  an  open-label  long-term  follow-up  trial 
(SALTWATER).  In  the  SALT  trials,  the  dose  was  titrated  from  15  to  30  mg  up  to  a  maximum  of 
60 mg  as  per protocol  based  on subject’s  serum  sodium.  The  majority  normalised  serum  sodium  by 
day  7.  Serum  sodium  levels  dropped  after  the  discontinuation  of  tolvaptan  at  the  end  of  the  SALT 
trials, but they rapidly were restored to normalised levels when tolvaptan treatment was re-started. The 
SALTWATER trial reflects the effect of tolvaptan with chronic therapy. The proportions of patients 
with the 3 disease aetiologies in SALTWATER were generally comparable to the SALT trial except 
that  there  were  somewhat  more  SIADH  and  fewer  cirrhosis  patients  who  restarted  treatment  in  the 
SALTWATER trial (SALT: 28% Cirrhosis, 30% CHF, 42% SIADH; SALTWATER: 18% Cirrhosis, 
30% CHF, 52% SIADH).  
This  is  an  ongoing  extension  trial  and  is  yet  to  be  completed.  The  applicant  has  submitted  an 
abbreviated clinical report with a data cut-off of 01 February 2007. A number of these subjects have 
been followed up to 106 weeks. There were 33 CHF, 20 Cirrhosis and 58 with SIADH. Of these, 13, 5 
and 35 respective aetiologies are continuing in the trial while 19, 15 and 16 respectively discontinued 
for  variable  reasons.  Up  to  the  cut-off  date  there  have  been  no  deaths.  Overall,  the  numbers  of 
cirrhosis and CHF patients followed long-term are small. This especially is true for cirrhosis and thus 
the long-term effect of tolvaptan in this difficult population remains to be established.  
HEART FAILURE PROGRAMME 
The “worsening of heart failure (HF)” indication was withdrawn during the procedure, the evaluation 
of the data are included however as they are considered relevant and of public interest.  
Pivotal study EVEREST 
•  Trial 156-03-236: EVEREST trial - Efficacy of Vasopressin antagonism in hEart failure: outcome 
Study  with  Tolvaptan.  Phase  3,  multicentre,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  pivotal  trial  to 
compare  the  efficacy  of  tolvaptan30  mg  daily  versus  placebo  in  conjunction  with  optimal  (as 
determined by the investigator) current therapy in adult subjects hospitalized with worsening CHF. 
This forms the pivotal study for heart failure and utilized a 3-in-1 design, consisting of a Long-
term  Outcome  Trial  and  2  distinct  Short-term  Clinical  Status  Trials  (Trials  A  and  B)  using  the 
same population. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Patients >18 years or older with reduced LV function or CHF and signs of volume expansion, NYHA 
III-IV  symptoms  who  were  hospitalised  of 
no  more  than  48  hours  were  eligible  for 
entry.  Among  the  main  exclusion  criteria 
were  cardiac  surgery  within  60  days  of 
enrolment,  cardiac  mechanical  support, 
biventricular  pacemaker  placement  within 
the  last  60  days,  co-morbid  conditions with 
an  expected  survival  of  less  than  6  months 
and  acute  myocardial  infarction  at  the  time 
of hospitalization. 
Subjects were randomized to receive either 30 mg tolvaptan or matching placebo in addition to SC and 
assigned to either Trial A or Trial B by a pre-defined algorithm.  
Treatments 
Page 32 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All patients received standard HF therapy including diuretics, digoxin, angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors,  angiotensin  II  receptor  blockers,  beta-blockers,  aldosterone  blockers,  hydralazine,  and/or 
nitrates, at the discretion of the treating physician.  
The trial was planned to continue enrolment until 1065 deaths (event driven) would be reached and all 
enrolled subjects have been followed for a minimum of 60 days. Patients still in the trial at that point 
would continue until the last patient enrolled had been treated for 60 days.  
Objectives 
The primary objectives of the primary outcome trial were to compare the effects of tolvaptan + SC to 
placebo + SC on the time to all-cause mortality in subjects with worsening HF and on the time to first 
occurrence of cardiovascular (CV) mortality or hospitalization for heart failure.  
Patients with advanced CHF suffer greatly due to clinical symptoms of congestion like dyspnoea and 
experience serious restrictions to their daily lives and so 2 short-term, clinical status trials, A and B, 
were performed within the primary outcomes trial, to evaluate the effect of tolvaptan + SC on short-
term  clinical  signs  and  symptoms.  This  design  was  used  to  maximize  clinical  information  from  the 
large subject population in the primary outcome trial.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was a composite endpoint of change from baseline in patient-assessed 
global clinical status (using a visual analogue scale, VAS) and change from baseline in body weight at 
inpatient  Day  7  or  discharge,  if  earlier.  Secondary  efficacy  variables  included  changes  in  global 
clinical status at Day 7; body weight reductions at Days 1 and 7; frequency of dyspnoea at Day 1 and 
the frequency of oedema at Day 7. 
The co-primary endpoints of the primary outcome trial were all-cause mortality and the composite of 
cardiovascular  death  or  heart  failure  hospitalisation  analyzed  as  time-to-first-event  and  tested  for 
superiority and non-inferiority. Secondary efficacy variables in the primary outcome trial included the 
time to first occurrence of cardiovascular mortality/morbidity; incidence of cardiovascular mortality; 
incidence  of  clinical  worsening  of  heart  failure;  short-term  changes  from  baseline  in  body  weight, 
serum  sodium  (in  subjects  with  baseline  values  <134 mEq/L),  oedema  score,  and  dyspnoea  (in 
subjects with dyspnoea at baseline); and change from baseline in quality of life assessments. 
Sample size and statistical methods 
The sample size for this trial was estimated based on the number of events (1065 deaths, event driven 
trial) required to provide 90% power to compare all-cause mortality at alpha 0.009 under the following 
assumptions. For the purpose of sample size estimation, the rates of all-cause mortality for the placebo 
+ SC group were assumed to be 10%, 25%, and 35% at 2 months, 6 months, and 1 year, respectively. 
Beyond  1  year,  an  annual  mortality  rate  of  30.5%  was  assumed.  A  proportional  hazards  model  was 
assumed such that tolvaptan reduced the 6-month mortality rate by 20% (to 20%, hazard ratio [HR] = 
0.776),  which  resulted  in  mortality  rates  in  the  tolvaptan  group  of  7.8%,  20.0%,  and  28.4%  at  2 
months,  6  months,  and  1  year,  respectively.  It  was  also  assumed  that  the  discontinuation  rate  at  18 
months would be 15% with treatment discontinuations uniformly distributed over the follow-up time.  
With  these  assumptions,  an  estimated  1065  deaths  were  needed  for  this  trial,  after  accounting  for 
interim analyses by the Data Safety Monitoring Board. Using S+ SeqTrial software for proportional 
hazards model, 1065 deaths provided 90% power for the HR of 0.8132 with alpha = 0.0402 (2-sided), 
and HR of 0.7865 with alpha = 0.009 (2-sided). 
If there were no treatment difference, testing for non-inferiority was planned at a power of more 94% 
for  demonstrating  non-inferiority  at  the  95.98%  (=  1  −  0.0402)  confidence  level.  The  ITT  for  the 
outcomes evaluation represents all subjects who were randomized to the trial.  
It  was  projected  that  the  target  number  of  deaths  could  be  observed  with  3600  subjects  recruited 
uniformly  over  an  18-month  period  with  an  additional  2  months  of  treatment,  for  an  entire  trial 
duration of 20 months.  
The  EVEREST  trial  was  designed  with  an  overall  alpha  of  0.05.   Among  this 0.01,  0.0008  was 
assigned  to  the primary  endpoint  of Trial  A  and Trial  B (so  that  each Trial  would have  an  alpha  of 
0.04  (0.04x0.04/2  =  0.0008)  for  its  primary  endpoint),  and  0.009  was  assigned  to  the  co-primary 
endpoints of the Primary Outcome Trial. 
Randomisation 
Page 33 of 49 
 
 
 
 
Subjects satisfying the trial entrance criteria were assigned a randomization number on inpatient Day 
0. Within each center, subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either tolvaptan 30 mg or placebo 
according to a blocked randomization schedule.  
Blinding (masking) 
Subjects  received  tolvaptan  30  mg  or  matching  placebo  in  a  randomized,  double-blind  fashion.  The 
trial drug was packaged so that each subject received an identical number of tablets regardless of the 
treatment group assignment. Tolvaptan and placebo tablets were identical in appearance.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Source: Konstam, M. A. et al. JAMA 2007;297:1319-1331. 
Recruitment 
Date of first signed informed consent: 07 Oct 2003 
Trial Termination Date: 17 Apr 2006 
Date of last trial observation: 05 Jul 2006 
Conduct of the study 
There  were  3  amendments  to  the  protocol,  of  which  2  were  considered  major  as  they  modified  the 
primary  end-points.  Amendments  were  performed  in  one  case  prior  to  randomization  of  the  first 
patient, and in the other before the database were locked, and therefore were not considered post-hoc. 
Baseline data 
Both  groups  were  similar  in  terms  of  sex,  age  and  race.  There  were  more  men  (74%)  than  women 
(26%),  and  the  average  age  of  subjects  was  65  years.  There  is  no  obvious  imbalance  between  the 
treatment groups. Interestingly, beta-blocker use was only in ~70% in both groups. It was clarified that 
the combinations did not produce higher degree of electrolyte imbalance in any of the combinations of 
angiotensin-converting  enzyme  (ACE) 
inhibitors,  angiotensin-receptor  blockers  (ARBs)  and 
antimineralocorticoids.  There  were  2960  patients  (1469  tolvaptan  +  SC;  1491  SC  alone)  in  the 
EVEREST  trial  with  concomitant  antimineralocorticoid  therapy  and  1173  patients  (603  tolvaptan  + 
SC;  570  SC  alone)  that  did  not  receive  antimineralocorticoid  therapy.  A  comparison  of  efficacy 
parameters  between  tolvaptan  +  SC  and  SC  alone  in  patients  with  and  without  concomitant 
antimineralocorticoid  therapy  shows  that  there  is  no  difference  in  the  treatment  effect  of  tolvaptan. 
The  entire  population  was  one  of  moderate  to  severe  CHF,  more  towards  the  severe  end  of  the 
Page 34 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
spectrum with ~50% exhibiting orthopnoea. About 17% of subjects had pacemakers and about 14% 
had  defibrillators;  it  is  unclear  if  these  were  biventricular  pacemakers  for  heart  failure.  The  groups 
were evenly matched for these characteristics. About 40% of the patients had atrial fibrillation in both 
groups.  The  applicant  has  clarified  that  all  subjects with  AF  received  anticoagulation  and  that  there 
were no relevant differences in the incidence of stroke in the EVEREST trial (for further discussion 
See  safety  aspects).  There  is  a  small  but  consistent  presence  of  those  with  some  renal  impairment 
despite  the  exclusion  criteria  of  serum  creatinine  value  of >3.5mg.  Whilst  a  population  with  greater 
gender and ethnicity distribution might have shown different characteristics, the current cohort could 
be considered part representative although this is insufficient to provide any confidence that tolvaptan 
is effective in those with chronic kidney disease. 
Numbers analysed 
Of the 4133 randomized subjects (2072 tolvaptan + SC, 2061 SC), 2466 (59%) completed the trial and 
1667  (841  tolvaptan  +  SC,  826  placebo  +  SC)  were  withdrawn  prior  to  completing  the  trial.  About 
20% of subjects discontinued treatment prior to trial termination for reasons other than death, mostly 
due  to  withdrawal  of  consent,  and  there  were  no  relevant  differences  between  tolvaptan  +  SC  and 
placebo + SC. The proportion of subjects who received trial drug for up to 10 days was greater than 
99% for both treatment groups. Approximately 89% of subjects in each group received trial drug for 
up to 2 months, 72% for up to 6 months, and 42% for up to 12 months. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The EVEREST trial was designed to allow the sequential testing of superiority and non-inferiority of 
tolvaptan  +  SC  compared  to  placebo  +  SC.  Treatment  with  tolvaptan  +  SC  demonstrated  statistical 
non-inferiority to placebo + SC for the primary endpoints: time to all-cause mortality, CV death or HF 
hospitalization. Although the hazard ratios were all close to 1.0, there were fewer events of all-cause 
mortality in the tolvaptan + SC group (537, 25.9%) compared to the placebo + SC group (543, 26.3%) 
whereas  the  CV  death  or  HF  hospitalization  (co-primary  end  point)  was  numerically  higher  for 
tolvaptan  +  SC  (871)  than  for  placebo  +  SC  (829).  The  analysis  of  time  to  first  occurrence  of  CV 
Page 35 of 49 
 
 
 
 
mortality or hospitalisation for heart failure also shows similar rates in both groups although the rate 
was slightly higher in the tolvaptan group. This appears to be due to higher incidence of stroke in the 
tolvaptan group (discussed in the safety section).  
Whilst tolvaptan has been shown to be non-inferior to placebo in the EVEREST trial, some questions 
arose due to the differences in mortality in the supportive studies (Positive effect in Meteor 156-01-
232; but a negative effect in 156-00-220 especially in NYHA-II or  III subjects) with the caveat that 
these  may  not  have  been  powered  to  detect  differences  in  mortality.  To  address  this  concern  the 
applicant provided a pooled analysis of all heart failure trials that does not regard mortality and neither 
a  negative  nor  positive  effects  were  seen.  The  applicant  also  provided  further  analysis  of  the 
hyponatraemic  subset  for  EVEREST  trial.  These  analysis  however,  based  on  a  total  of  92  subjects 
with  serum  sodium  <130mEq/L  are  only  of  limited  value  given  the  overall  numbers  with 
hyponatraemia (sodium <135mEq/L; n=203) or the entire EVEREST population (n=4130) where such 
differences with placebo were not seen.  
Short term trials 
Trials  A  and  B  included  a  total  of  2048  (trial A)  and  2085  (trial  B)  patients  hospitalized  with  heart 
failure and congestion. 
The  results  suggest  that  short-term  treatment  with  tolvaptan  30  mg  in  combination  with  standard 
therapy  has  a  favourable effect  on the  composite  of change  in  patient-assessed clinical  global  status 
and change in body weight at inpatient day 7 or discharge, compared with placebo (p = 0.0005 in Trial 
A, p < 0.0001 in Trial B and p < 0.0001 in the Long-term Outcome Trial). The main contributor to the 
positive composite result was body weight (Trial A: −3.53 kg tolvaptan + SC; −2.73 kg placebo + SC, 
p<0.0001 and Trial B: −3.69 kg tolvaptan + SC; −2.79 kg SC, p<0.0001). As VAS was only measured 
after 7 days or discharge, no statistically significant difference between the treatment groups could be 
demonstrated (Trial  A:  18.25  mm  tolvaptan  +  SC;  17.73  mm  SC,  p<0.5131  and  Trial  B:  18.72  mm 
tolvaptan  +  SC;  18.28  mm  SC,  p<0.5188).  The  positive  effect  on  the  composite  end  point  was  due 
primarily to the statistically greater decrease in body weight demonstrated for tolvaptan 30 mg relative 
to  placebo.  Improvements  of  other  signs  and  symptoms  were  also  observed  during  short-term 
treatment, including oedema, fatigue, rales and orthopnoea.  
While a statistical difference for the primary analysis and for a range of sensitivity analyses has been 
noted, the clinical relevance of this difference is difficult to quantify from the above analyses. 
The  applicant  has  further  analysed  the  significance  of  these  short  term  findings  and  in  response  to 
questions raised has provided the following.  
(cid:142) There  is  an  association  between  body  weight  change  and  physician  assessed  signs  and 
symptoms on day 1,  
(cid:142) A  statistically  significant  difference  between  tolvaptan  and  placebo  groups  was  noted  for 
dyspnoea  in  both  trials  (%  improvers/responders);  76.5  vs  70.6  %  (p  =0.0004)  in  trial  A  and 
72.1 vs 65.3% (p=0.0002) in trial B.  
(cid:142) A van Elteren analysis to show overall effect (see table below) 
In summary, tolvaptan demonstrated some short term effects on parameters such as patient assessed 
dyspnoea,  body  weight,  reduction  in  jugular  venous  distension,  and  qualitative  reduction  in  pedal 
Page 36 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are 
and 
there 
these 
analysis 
important 
oedema between day 1 and 7. The association between dyspnoea and body weight is explained easily 
as  a  similar  relation  can  be  demonstrated  with  the  use  of  any  diuretic.  The  benefit  appears  to  be 
predominantly  on  day  1  and  2  and  sustained  effect  is  not  seen  even  with  continued  treatment. 
Notwithstanding 
considerations. 
arguments, 
Pharmacodynamically, the aquaresis is marked in the first 24 hours but subsequently it is less marked 
and hence the clinical effect is maximal on days 1-2. The re-analyzed data on clinical evidence, driven 
largely  by  change  in  body  weight,  only  suggests  weak  improvement  on  signs  and  symptoms  as 
dyspnoea and oedema. Notably, there is no direct comparison of diuretics and tolvaptan as both groups 
received standard care. There are other limitations of the dataset: use of vasodilators such as nesiritide 
showed that in  those  receiving  nesiritide,  effect  of  tolvaptan  was  less  prominent in terms  of sodium 
correction and pedal oedema but better for dyspnoea and body weight. There is dissociation between 
pedal oedema and other claimed benefits (dyspnoea and body weight) which lends little support to the 
overall picture. No clear advantages of tolvaptan administration have been identified with respect to 
choice of the diuretic, frequency/dose of furosemide on days other than day 4 and 5 (a difference of 
35 mg furosemide dose on day 4 between tolvaptan and SC groups; background dose 180 mg), length 
of  hospital  stay,  alterations  in  renal  function  or  repeated  hospitalisations.  Thus  the  effects 
demonstrated are considered small and the clinical utility of tolvaptan in all patients with heart failure 
is not clear. While it is true that hyponatraemia occurs in 20-30% of patients with severe heart failure 
and  that  it  may  be  poor  prognostic  indicator,  in  the  EVEREST  trial  only  8%  of  such  subjects  were 
included.  Analysis  of  these  subgroups  in  the  EVEREST  trial  did  not  provide  evidence  of  increased 
benefit  although  some  differences  were  seen.  CV  mortality/morbidity  were  better  with  tolvaptan 
treatment  in  those  with  serum  sodium  <130meq/L.  The  difference  in  dyspnoea  responders  was  also 
better  but  the  numbers  are  extremely  limited  for  both  these  analysis.  The  other  parameters  (body 
weight  and  pedal  oedema)  however  appear  to  move  in  the  opposite  direction  (see  hyponatraemia 
section for more details of these).  
Overall,  the  evidence  to  support  an  indication  in  heart  failure  was  considered  small  and  CHMP 
considered that they will require further study/data. In view of this the applicant decided not to pursue 
the heart failure indication.  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
There were no specific studies performed in special populations. 
•  Supportive studies 
Hyponatraemia 
All  supportive  studies  examined  the  level  of  serum  sodium  attained  after  treatment  with  tolvaptan. 
Some  heart  failure  studies  also  act  as  supportive  studies  for  use  of  tolvaptan  in  patients  with  heart 
failure. Approximately 12% of subjects in this trial (N = 243 on tolvaptan 30 mg QD, 232 on placebo 
QD)  were  found  to  have  hyponatraemia  at  baseline,  as  defined  by  serum  sodium  concentrations 
< 135 mEq/L. Although these have not been analyzed separately, they form a fairly specific subset to 
assess the long term treatment set for hyponatraemia with tolvaptan. 
Study 97-204  
This  was  a  multi-centre,  randomised,  open  label,  active  controlled  (fluid  restriction  with  placebo), 
dose titration study in both euvolemic and hypervolemic states. After a placebo baseline (days 0 & 1) 
tolvaptan was individually titrated (from 10, to 15, 30, 45 and 60 mg). Male and female patients >18 
years with hyponatraemia (sodium <135mEq/L) before randomisation of any aetiology were included. 
The primary outcome measure was serum sodium concentrations while urine osmolality, urine volume, 
urine sodium concentration, body weight, total fluid intake, free water clearance and thirst assessment 
were the secondary variables. 
During the titration phase, tolvaptan group had higher mean increases from baseline in serum sodium 
levels  than  the  fluid  restriction  group  (mean  increase  of  5.73  vs.  1.00  mEq/L  at  the  last  visit 
respectively).  
Mean urine sodium concentrations decreased (by 1.33 to 20.40 mEq/L) in the tolvaptan group while 
they increased (by 9.67 to 34.44 mEq/L) in the fluid restriction group. Urine potassium levels showed 
Page 37 of 49 
 
 
 
 
  
 
similar changes. Serum osmolality increased in both groups but were generally higher in the tolvaptan 
group (mean increase by 9.38 mOsm/kg vs.3.0 mOsm/kg). Statistically significant differences in the 
mean total daily fluid balance were seen between the two groups. The mean thirst scale scores were 
81.50 and 42.11 for the fluid restriction and OPC-41061 groups, respectively. 
The  supportive  studies  including  those  in  CHF  population  where  few  subjects  had  hyponatraemia 
provide  some  evidence  of  the  effect  of  tolvaptan  on enhanced  urine  output,  selective  aquaresis,  and 
correction of hyponatraemia. The numbers from CHF trials are limited and hence offer only minimal 
support  for  efficacy.  Study  00-204  albeit  in  a  small  population,  does  offer  evidence  that  tolvaptan 
increases serum sodium levels that are not achieved by fluid restriction alone. 
Cardiac Function  
The METEOR (156-01-232) trial was designed to evaluate the effect of long-term administration of 
tolvaptan  +  SC  at  a  dose  of  30  mg/day  on  the  reduction  in  left  ventricular  end-diastolic  volume 
compared  to  placebo  +  SC  in  subjects  with  heart failure  and left  ventricular  systolic  dysfunction.  A 
total  of  240  subjects  underwent  quantitative  radionuclide  ventriculography  (RVG)  at  baseline, 
repeated  after  1  year  of  treatment  with  tolvaptan  +  SC  or  placebo  +  SC,  and  repeated  again 
approximately 1 week after withdrawal of tolvaptan. The primary endpoint was prospectively defined 
as the change from baseline in left ventricular end diastolic volume (adjusted for body surface, i.e., LV 
EDV index) at the week 54 Visit.  
In the placebo + SC group, there was no change in LV EDV index over the year of follow-up (change 
of 0.0 + 10.0 mL/m2), while in the tolvaptan + SC group, there was a small reduction in LV volumes 
(decrease of 1.8 + 10.7 mL/m2; p=0.21). There was also no difference in the change of volumes from 
baseline  at  the  week-55  assessment.  Un-adjudicated  outcomes  of  mortality  and  heart  failure 
hospitalizations  were  reported  by  investigators  (who  were  blinded  to  randomization  treatment 
assignment). Over the course of the trial, there were 6 deaths (5%) and 21 heart failure hospitalizations 
(18%) for tolvaptan + SC, compared with 11 deaths (9%) and 34 heart failure hospitalizations (28%) 
placebo  +  SC.  In  a  post  hoc,  time-to-event  analysis,  there  was  significant  favourable  effect  of 
tolvaptan on the composite of mortality or heart failure hospitalization (p<0.03 by log-rank test).  
Trial 156-00-220  
This was a multicenter, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group trial to assess the 
efficacy and safety of 6 months of treatment with 3 doses of tolvaptan or placebo in conjunction with 
conventional  therapy  in  adult  subjects  with  CHF.  Four  groups  of  80  subjects  were  randomized  to 
receive  15,  30,  or  60  mg  of tolvaptan or  placebo  once  daily for  169  days.  All  subjects  continued  to 
receive conventional therapy. A total of 330 subjects were randomized to trial drug and 329 subjects 
were treated. A total of 260 subjects completed the trial. 
The primary end point, clinical status at 6 months was not statistically significant different between the 
tolvaptan  15,  30,  and  60  mg  treatment  groups  and  placebo.  In  a  post-hoc  subpopulation  analysis  of 
subjects with oedema at screening or baseline, tolvaptan produced some improvements in NYHA class 
and CHF symptoms. For secondary efficacy variables, the incidence of death and hospitalization for 
heart failure was statistically significantly greater for the tolvaptan 15 mg group vs. placebo (p<0.05). 
There  were  no  other  statistically  significant  differences  between  treatment  groups  for  death, 
hospitalization for heart failure, or unscheduled visit. The data from this trial suggest that subjects with 
stable chronic heart failure (NYHA Class II and III) on standard optimal background therapy did not 
demonstrate an improvement in outcomes when exposed to once daily dosing of tolvaptan for up to 6 
months. However, possible additional symptomatic and outcome benefit may be present in the subset 
of subjects with evidence of congestion (oedema at baseline).  
Trial 156-00-222  
Tolvaptan  was  compared  to  80 mg  furosemide  in  a  multicenter,  randomized,  double  blind,  placebo-
controlled,  parallel  group  trial  to  assess  the  efficacy  and  safety  in  adult  subjects  with  CHF  over  a 
period  of  7  days  of  trial  drug  dosing.  Four  groups  of  20  subjects  were  to  be  randomly  assigned  to 
receive  30  mg  tolvaptan,  80  mg  of  furosemide,  30  mg  of  tolvaptan  and  80  mg  of  furosemide,  or 
placebo daily for 7 days stratified by baseline furosemide dose levels (≤80 mg/day or >80 mg/day). 
The primary efficacy variable was the change from baseline in body weight at Day 8. The secondary 
efficacy variables were the changes from baseline in urine volume, plasma renin activity (PRA), brain 
Page 38 of 49 
 
 
 
 
natriuretic  peptide  (BNP), atrial  natriuretic peptide  (ANP),  arginine  vasopressin  (AVP), aldosterone, 
norepinephrine  (NE),  oedema,  JVD,  rales,  hepatomegaly,  dyspnoea,  orthopnoea,  and  serum 
electrolytes (sodium, potassium, and magnesium).  
Tolvaptan, at a dose of 30 mg, significantly (p<0.05) reduced body weight (mean decreases of 0.41 kg 
to 1.38 kg), when compared with placebo (mean increases of 0.41 kg to 1.21 kg, with the exception of 
the Day 2 visit, which showed a mean decrease of 0.31 kg) at all time points throughout the trial. In 
summary,  tolvaptan,  when  given  at  doses  of  30  mg  once  daily  either  alone  or  in  combination  with 
furosemide for up to 7 days was effective and safe as an aquaretic agent in subjects with NYHA class 
II or III CHF. 
Clinical safety 
Tolvaptan has been investigated clinically in Japan since 1994 and in Europe and the US since 1996. 
The  safety  dataset  consists  of  3294  subjects  treated  with  any  dose  of  tolvaptan  and  2738  subjects 
treated with placebo from a total of 14 clinical trials. The combined population contains safety data for 
1,870 subject years (683,036 days) of exposure to tolvaptan and 1,796 subject/years (656,651 days) of 
exposure to placebo. Overall there were 817 subjects treated with tolvaptan in placebo-controlled trials 
for 1 year or more. 
•  Patient exposure 
More than 4000 subjects have been exposed to oral doses of tolvaptan in the 57 trials conducted in the 
US,  Europe,  Brazil  and  Argentina:  527  healthy  volunteers,  2982  subjects  in  trials  for  CHF,  497 
subjects in trials for hyponatraemia, and 45 subjects in trials for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney 
disease  (ADPKD).  The  exposure  of  subjects  to  tolvaptan  in  the  heart  failure  and  hyponatraemia 
programme is adequately representative to assess the adverse event profile. Whether this is adequate 
exposure to assess all events including those of the very rare group is open to questions. However, the 
size of the heart failure dataset is similar to a number of other agents but this does not truly compare 
with  those  agents  (for  example  ACE  inhibitors  /  AT-II  receptor  antagonists)  that  were  used  for 
hypertension  first  and  subsequently  heart  failure  as  the  use  in  heart  failure  was  preceded  by  a 
significant  safety  database  arising  out  of  hypertension  trials.  Whether  the  size  of  the  data  set  and 
duration  of treatment (exposure) is  adequate to  assess  mortality  is questionable.  Only  ~800  subjects 
are exposed to tolvaptan for over 1 year and this considered to a limitation.  
The  demographic  characteristics  for  the  subjects  with  heart  failure  and  hyponatraemia  were 
comparable  between  the  treatment  groups.  The  majority  of  subjects  were  Caucasian  and  male.  The 
mean  age  in  both  treatment  groups  was  65  years,  with  approximately  55%  of  subjects  in  both 
treatment groups being 65 years or older. The other ethnic groups formed a small percentage.  
The areas of safety concern relate to the following; 
1.  Excess aquaresis leading to  
•  Thirst and dry mouth affecting ability to restrict fluid  
•  Hypotension  
•  Dehydration 
•  Massive electrolyte shifts including hypo or hyperkalaemia 
•  Coagulation and thrombotic risk 
•  Arrhythmias 
•  Renal function 
•  Adverse events  
Adverse  events  (AEs)  were  classified  based  on  frequency  by  organ  class  and  subsequently  all 
treatment  emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs)  occurring  in  >5%  of  subjects.  The  following  were  the 
most  frequent  possibly  related  TEAEs:  thirst,  ~18%  in  tolvaptan  group  [~2.5%  in  SC  group],  dry 
mouth (8.5 vs. 2.1%), pollakiuria (frequent day time urination: 5.4 vs. 0.9%), fatigue (2.3 vs. 0.9%), 
polyuria  (3.3%  vs.  0.6%  SC)  and  ventricular  tachycardia  (0.9%  vs.  0.3%  SC).  Cardiac  disorders 
occupied  the  highest  frequency.  Further  classification  based  on  individual  AEs revealed  that  a  clear 
distinction  in  the  number  and  type  of  adverse  events  as  detailed  with  thirst,  dry  mouth,  fatigue, 
pollakiuria  showed  clear  differences  from  the  placebo  group.  All  other  AEs/TEAEs  had  a  similar 
distribution in both tolvaptan and placebo groups. Interestingly, hypokalaemia (6.3% T vs. 7.9% SC) 
Page 39 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
upper  abdominal  pain  (1.8  %T  vs.  3.2%  SC)  and  muscle  spasms  (2.9%  T  vs.  3.9%  SC)  were  more 
frequent in the placebo group. Tolvaptan was associated with a slightly higher incidence of increases 
in serum creatinine concentrations in the HF population (tolvaptan 3.6%, placebo 3.0%). This slight 
difference  was  not  associated  with  increased  frequencies  of  TEAEs  associated  with  renal  function 
(renal failure, renal failure  acute,  renal  failure  chronic)  or  increased  all-cause  mortality.  Acute  renal 
failure occurred in >2% of subjects in the overall population and was marginally higher in the placebo 
group  (3.2%T  vs.  4.1%  SC).  Hyperkalaemia  occurred  in  6.6%  (n=219)  in  the  tolvaptan  group  and 
5.8% in the placebo group. A few other events showed numerical differences between groups but were 
not  of  large  magnitude  but  all  in  favour  of  placebo;  dizziness  (9.1  vs.  8.2%),  constipation  (8.6  vs. 
7.9%), and increased uric acid (2.9 vs. 2.1%). In tolvaptan-treated hyponatraemia patients the number 
of TEAE reports related to glucose elevations was slightly above the placebo group (hyperglycaemia 
3.8% vs. 3.1%, diabetes mellitus 2.0% vs. 0.8%). An apparent signal exists for modest hyperglycaemia 
associated with tolvaptan treatment in the hyponatraemia subgroup only but not heart failure. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
TEAEs  occurred  in  both  groups  with  higher  numerical  values  in  the  placebo  group  (47%  vs.  51%). 
Cardiac  disorders  formed  the  highest proportion  (32.1%  vs.  34.6%)  of these.  Overall  cardiac failure 
(15% for tolvaptan vs. 17% SC) and congestive cardiac failure (=12% in both) were the most common 
serious  TEAEs.  With  the  exception  of  pneumonia  (2.6%  for  both  groups),  ventricular  tachycardia 
(2.2% for tolvaptan and 1.8% for placebo), and acute renal failure (2.0% for tolvaptan and 2.7% for 
placebo), all other serious TEAEs were reported at frequencies less than 2%. The serious TEAEs of 
special interest (including ventricular tachycardia [VT], cardiac arrest, hyperkalaemia, cerebrovascular 
accident, renal failure, and hypotension) all occurred with differences of ≤1% between the tolvaptan 
and  the  placebo  groups.  Among  all  the  heart  failure  and  hyponatraemia  subjects,  17.2%  in  the 
tolvaptan group and 20.0% in the placebo subjects died during the on-treatment period. A total of 567 
(17%) tolvaptan and 547 (20%) placebo subjects died and the types of events were similar for the 2 
treatment groups. Most deaths (331 [10%] tolvaptan subjects and 285 [10%] placebo subjects) were 
due  to  events  of  the  cardiac  disorders  system  organ  class.  Of  interest  is  the  fact  that  both 
hyperkalaemia  and  cardiac  arrest  were  numerically  higher  in  the  tolvaptan  group.  The  applicant 
provided  an  explanation  that  the  tables  reflected  different  groups  of  patients  and  reanalysis  did  not 
show any difference. This explanation was accepted. The applicant confirmed that the firing rate from 
the  automatic  implantable  cardioverter/defibrillator  (AICDs)  and  VT  /cardiac  arrest  events  were  not 
related, but as the AICD firing rates were not systematically collected and thus a definitive conclusion 
is not possible.  
A larger number of hospitalisations were adjudicated as due to stroke in the tolvaptan + SC group (42) 
compared to placebo + SC (25, p=0.0116 for the difference). Increased frequencies for hospitalisations 
due  to  stroke  were  observed  for  tolvaptan-treated  patients  in  the  EVEREST  trial  (2.2%  tolvaptan  + 
SC; 1.2% placebo + SC). A more detailed analysis, demonstrated that this difference resulted from a 
significantly  larger  number  of  hospitalizations  due  to  ischemic  events  in  the  tolvaptan  +  SC  group 
(38/2063,  1.8%)  compared  to  the  placebo  +  SC  group  (18/2055,  0.9%;  p=0.0100).  Overall,  no 
statistically significant difference was seen between the tolvaptan + SC and placebo + SC groups in 
the incidences of death due to ischemic stroke  p=0.6066). The analysis of the overall distribution of 
stroke showed that there were also no statistically significant differences between tolvaptan + SC and 
placebo+ SC for: time to first stroke, time to first cardiovascular event, time to multiple strokes, and 
time  to  multiple  cardiovascular  events.  The  applicant  provided  a  reanalysis  of  stroke/  events  in  all 
subgroups  in  order  to  analyse  any  interaction  between  antiplatelet  agents  and  tolvaptan.  The  most 
interesting  finding  of  this  re-analysis  is  that  the  group  which  received  a  combination  of 
warfarin+antiplatelet  agents  and  tolvaptan  had  more  ischaemic  events.  This  is  contrary  to  the 
expectation and is likely to be a chance finding.  
Some events occurred rarely and these included neutropenia related events with a total incidence for 
all subjects of 0.4% (14/3294) for tolvaptan and 0.3% (9/2738) for placebo.  
•  Laboratory findings 
Tolvaptan did not influence the renal function parameters in a small population of patients with CHF. 
The occurrence of abnormal blood urea nitrogen in most combinations varied between 28-42% in the 
Page 40 of 49 
 
 
 
 
tolvaptan group while it ranged between 33-49% in the standard care group. In the cirrhosis population 
these were 20-48% for tolvaptan and 27-52% for standard care respectively. For acute renal failure the 
figures  varied  as  follows:  in  all  trials  the  ranges  were  7-22%  for  tolvaptan  and  8-22%  for  standard 
care;  in  the  cirrhosis  population  the  ranges  were  0-33%  for  tolvaptan  7-35%  for  standard  care.  It 
should  be  noted  that although  some  gradation  was  seen  depending  on  the  number  of  agents  in  each 
combination, the numbers were small in each subgroup and thus are unlikely to indicate a particular 
predisposition for tolvaptan to increase renal complications. These figures are only for occurrence of 
change  in  laboratory  parameters  and  not  discontinuations.  To  conclude,  there  are  no  concerns 
regarding  the  laboratory  findings,  therefore  no  restrictions  are  necessary  in  the  SPC  except  serum 
sodium and potassium monitoring. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The data presented thus far has not revealed any specific concern relating to use in the over 65 year 
population, or changes relating to ethnic origins although Caucasians formed the majority. Tolvaptan 
has not been studied in children and thus, no safety issues are identified but use will be restricted to 
those  older  than  18  years.  The  safety  aspects  did  not  differ  in  the  special  populations  between 
tolvaptan  and  placebo  groups  although  some  differences  between  aetiologies  of  hyponatraemia  are 
evident.  
As  regards  pregnancy,  tolvaptan  should  not  be  used  in  pregnancy  or  lactation  firstly  due  to  its 
teratogenicity and secondly due to absence of any experience with pregnant or lactating women. The 
contraindication is supported as other treatment options are available during pregnancy.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The  applicant  has  analysed  the  interaction  in  the  EVEREST  trial  for  the  following  commonly 
administered agents in heart failure; digoxin, amiodarone and warfarin. No significant interaction was 
evident  although  in  the  placebo  group  those  who  did  not  receive  amiodarone  had  more  events  and 
higher rate of death, which is not unexpected. Such a difference was not seen in the tolvaptan group 
with  or  without  amiodarone.  Further  information  on  drug  interactions  can  be  found  in  the 
Pharmacokinetics section. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  majority  of  discontinuations  were  due  to  cardiac  disorders.  Of  particular  concern  during  the 
procedure was the occurrence of acute renal failure. The applicant provided a reanalysis of the events 
such as occurrence of renal failure in different subsets including pre-disposing factors to address this 
concern.  This  included  an  analysis  of  combination  therapies  for  agents  acting  on  the  RAS  (ACEI, 
ARBs  and  antimineralocorticoid  agents).  From  the  assessment  it  was  concluded  that  tolvaptan  does 
not appear to have major safety concerns.  
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Page 41 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine PhV 
Renal toxicity 
Volume depletion 
and 
dehydration 
Routine PhV 
Routine PhV 
Acute urinary 
retention 
(patients with 
urinary 
outflow obstruction) 
Electrolyte shifts 
Routine PhV 
Page 42 of 49 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
• Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the 
SPC for subjects with volume depletion 
and subjects who cannot perceive thirst 
• Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the 
SPC for subjects with anuria 
• Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC that 
subjects should have access to water and 
be able to drink sufficient amounts of 
water  
• Warning in Section 4.8 of the SPC that 
increases in blood creatinine, pollakiuria 
and polyuria are common undesirable 
effects 
• Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the 
SPC for subjects with volume depletion 
and subjects who cannot perceive thirst 
• Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC that 
subjects should have access to water and 
be able to drink sufficient amounts of 
water. 
• Warning in Section 4.8 of the SPC that 
thirst and dehydration are very common 
undesirable effects 
• Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the 
SPC for subjects with anuria 
• Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC that 
urinary output must be secured and that 
“subjects with partial obstruction of 
urinary outflow, for example subjects with 
prostatic hypertrophy or impairment of 
micturition, have an increased risk of 
developing acute retention and require 
careful monitoring”
• Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the 
SPC for subjects with hypernatraemia 
• Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC that 
rapid changes in serum sodium: {Trade 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
name} may cause rapid increases in serum 
sodium; therefore after initiation of 
treatment, subjects should be carefully 
monitored for serum sodium and volume 
status. Particular care should be applied in 
subjects at risks for demyelinisation 
syndromes (e.g. hypoxia, alcoholism, 
malnutrition) 
• Warning in Section 4.8 of the SPC that 
hypernatraemia and hyperkalaemia are 
common undesirable effects. 
Cardiac arrhythmias  Routine PhV 
Not required. 
Routine PhV 
Rapid rise of serum 
sodium and 
neurologic 
sequelae 
Gastrointestinal 
bleeding in patients 
with liver cirrhosis 
Routine PhV 
Hyperglycaemia, 
diabetes mellitus 
Routine PhV 
Hyperuricaemia and 
gout 
Routine PhV 
Hypercoagulability 
and stroke 
Post-treatment 
myocardial 
ischaemia 
Dyspnoea 
Lack of paediatric 
data 
Teratogenicity, Lack 
of pregnancy data 
Routine PhV 
Routine PhV 
Routine PhV 
•  Routine PhV 
•  Capture of paediatric off-label 
use in a Non-interventional study 
Routine PhV 
Lack of 
Breastfeeding 
Routine PhV 
Page 43 of 49 
• Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the 
SPC for subjects with volume depletion 
and subjects who cannot perceive thirst 
• Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC that 
subjects should have access to water and 
be able to drink sufficient amounts of 
water and that fluid and electrolyte status 
should be monitored in all patients and 
particularly in those with renal and 
hepatic impairment. 
• Gastrointestinal bleeding events in 
cirrhotic patients will be placed under 
close monitoring and analysed 
appropriately in the PSUR. 
• Warning in Section 4.8 of the SPC that 
hyperglycaemia is a common undesirable 
effect. 
• Warning in Section 4.8 of the SPC that 
hyperuricaemia is a common undesirable 
effect. 
Not required 
Not required 
Not required 
• Statement in Section 4.2 of the SPC that 
there is no experience in children and 
adolescents under the age of 18 years. 
• Contraindication in Section 4.3 that 
tolvaptan shall not be used during 
pregnancy 
• Adequate contraceptive practice 
requirements in Section 4.6. 
• Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the 
SPC in breastfeeding 
 
 
 
• Warning in Section 4.6 of the SPC that 
tolvaptan is contraindicated during 
breastfeeding 
• Warning in SPC section 4.4 that fluid 
and electrolyte status should be monitored 
in all patients and particularly in those 
with renal and hepatic impairment. 
• Warning in SPC Section 4.5 of 
increased tolvaptan plasma concentrations 
after the administration of strong 
CYP3A4 inhibitors and after intake of 
grapefruit juice 
• Warning in SPC Section 4.5 that 
patients taking tolvaptan should avoid 
ingesting grapefruit juice. 
• Warning in SPC Section 4.5 of 
decreased tolvaptan plasma  
concentrations after the administration of 
CYP3A4 inducers. 
Not required 
experience 
Hepatic-impaired 
Routine PhV 
Interaction with 
CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Routine PhV 
Interaction with 
CYP3A4 inducers 
Routine PhV 
Routine PhV 
Interaction tolvaptan 
and serum potassium 
concentration- 
increasing 
substances 
Interaction tolvaptan 
with combined 
administration of 
warfarin and 
antiplatelet agents 
Off-label use 
Routine PhV 
Not required 
•  Routine PhV 
•  Non-interventional study 
Not required 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical  performance  of  the 
product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  There  are  a  number  of 
unresolved minor quality issues but these do not have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall the primary PD studies provided adequate evidence that tolvaptan has demonstrated selectivity 
for V2 over V1 receptors in rat, dog and human in vitro, and selectivity for human V2 receptors over 
human  V1a  receptors,  but  tolvaptan  had  no  affinity  for  human  V1b  receptors.  Metabolites  were  less 
potent  that  the  parent  compound.  In  vivo,  this  was  seen  to  produce  dose-related  increases  in  urine 
Page 44 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
volume  and  decreases  in  urine  osmolality.  Repeated  oral  doses  of  tolvaptan  at  1  or  10mg/kg  for  4 
weeks produced an aquaretic effect that was maintained for the duration of the study. The aquaretic 
effect  is  not  accompanied  by  significant  urinary  electrolyte  excretion.  The  safety  pharmacology 
programme did not reveal any findings of concern for humans.  
From  the  PK  point  of  view,  the  disposition  characteristics  were  generally  similar  across  the  species 
tested showing  tolvaptan to  have  a relatively  rapid  absorption,  with  Cmax  and  AUC  increasing  dose-
dependently, but the increases were generally not linear, possibly due to high first-pass metabolism. 
The presence of food reduced Cmax and AUC. In vitro and ex vivo plasma protein binding were high 
(>97% and >93%, respectively). Therefore the potential for interactions resulting from displacement 
of plasma protein binding is low. Tissue distribution studies showed radioactivity mainly distributed to 
liver,  GI  tract  and  kidney,  with  little  crossing  the  blood  brain  barrier  (BBB)  or  into  skin  or  eyes  in 
male albino rats. Tolvaptan or its metabolites in the rat do not have a particular affinity for melanin 
and  therefore  there  is  little  likelihood  of  it  being  distributed  into  the  skin  and  eyes  in  pigmented 
animals.  Transfer of radioactivity across the placenta has been demonstrated in pregnant rats. Section 
4.6  of  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SCP)  reflects  this  information.  Tolvaptan  is 
extensively  metabolised  in  all  species  investigated,  being  the  metabolism  was  qualitatively  similar. 
There were no unique human metabolites. In rats and dogs, radioactivity was predominantly (90-95%) 
eliminated in the faeces. This was also the case in humans although a substantial quantity (about 40% 
of  the  dose)  was  also  excreted  in  the  urine,  mainly  as  metabolites.  There  appear  to  be  no  clinically 
relevant effects on target organs as a result of the higher urinary excretion seen in man. In the animal 
species as well as man, tolvaptan clearance was mainly by metabolism.  
Toxicology  studies  showed  that  tolvaptan  had  low  acute  toxicity.  Findings  in  the  repeated  dose 
toxicity studies in rats and dogs were generally related to the pharmacological effect of tolvaptan and 
it  is  accepted  that  there  were  no  obvious  target  organs  in  either  species  studied.  Tolvaptan  is  not 
considered to be genotoxic or carcinogenic.  
A series of studies in pregnant rats and rabbits showed developmental toxicity in the rat foetuses. This 
was a point of major concern. The availability of alternative, safer treatments during pregnancy was 
discussed  and  it  was  accepted  that  there  are  other  options  for  management  during  pregnancy  which 
include  conservative  approaches  such  as  correcting  the  underlying  causes  and  using  treatments  for 
which there is experience of use during pregnancy in those cases when there is an urgent need or the 
symptoms  are  severe.  In  view  of  the  availability  of  alternative  treatments  a  contraindication  during 
pregnancy is accepted. 
Tolvaptan was not a dermal or an ocular irritant, and the potential for phototoxicity reactions occurring 
in man is considered to be low.  
On the basis of the data available so far, tolvaptan does not appear to present a risk to the environment.  
Efficacy 
Hyponatraemia 
Tolvaptan  treatment  significantly  improved  serum  sodium  concentrations  for  all  3  disease  groups 
(SIADH,  CHF  and  cirrhosis)  when  compared  to  placebo.  The  results  were  similar  in  subjects  with 
mild and severe hyponatraemia, with the biggest difference compared to placebo seen for the SIADH 
population (effect size for: SIADH 4.70 and 6.15 for Day 4 and Day 30 respectively; CHF 2.98 and 
4.05 for Day 4 and Day 30 respectively; Cirrhosis 3.15 and 2.83 Day 4 and Day 30 respectively). This 
improvement was irrespective of the volume status (hypervolemic or euvolemic).  
The urine output was consistently and statistically significantly greater in the tolvaptan group than the 
placebo  group  in  the  pooled  analysis,  regardless  of  aetiology.  Fluid  intake  was  also  greater  in  the 
tolvaptan group compared with placebo in the pooled analysis; however the difference from placebo 
was  only  statistically  significant  for  subjects  with  cirrhosis.  Statistically  significant  greater  mean 
decreases in body weight were observed in hypervolemic subjects at Days 2, 3, and 4 for the tolvaptan 
group compared with the placebo group in SALT-1 and in the pooled analysis. 
Mental  status  was  assessed  using  the  Mental  Component  Summary  of  the  SF-12  Health  Survey, 
evaluated at Day 30 compared to baseline. Improvements in SF-12 MCS scores related to and were 
associated  with changes  in  serum  sodium.  These results  were seen across  different  volume  states in 
comparison to placebo. When the three aetiologies were analysed separately (although these were not 
Page 45 of 49 
 
 
 
 
individually powered to find a difference), there were statistically significant improvements in mental 
status  (MCS)  on  Day  30  for  tolvaptan  compared  to  placebo  (p  =  0.0129)  for  subjects  with 
SIADH/Other in the pooled analysis. However, different statistical methodologies appear to show that 
the effect size in CHF could be of similar magnitude here as in SIADH or cirrhosis. The MCS analysis 
is also confounded by a multiplicity issue: MCS by (SF12) was not specified in the statistical analysis 
plan  as  a  key  secondary  end  point  but  was  one  of  several,  and  therefore  it  cannot  formally  be 
concluded that a statistically significant effect has been demonstrated on the MCS endpoint. 
A post-hoc analysis of results in the hyponatraemic subgroup from the EVEREST trial shows that in 
lower  CV 
the  subgroup  with  hyponatraemia+CHF, 
mortality/morbidity,  shorter  hospital  stay  (1.5  days),  better  KCCQ  score  and  greater  impact  on 
dyspnoea  and  normalisation  of  sodium.  These  additional  analyses  appear  to  favour  tolvaptan  use  in 
CHF+ hyponatraemic population, however the differences are based on small populations/subgroups 
(n=92,  Serum  Na  <130mEq/L)  but  not  clear  in  the  larger  population  of  those  with  serum  sodium 
<135mEq/L. 
tolvaptan  group  had  a 
trend 
the 
to 
The major issue with the hyponatraemia indication is lack of clear patient oriented benefit related to 
correction of serum sodium values and this has been shown for the SIADH population.  
Worsening of heart failure 
Symptomatic  benefit  has  been  shown  in  the  short  term  1-7  days  with  the  majority  of  the  benefit 
restricted to days 1-3. Dyspnoea reduction is noted on day 1-3. Pedal oedema was different in the two 
groups for a longer period. Tolvaptan did not have negative effect on mortality in the EVEREST trial 
but the number followed up were only 800 up to 12 months. In the heart failure population, the lack of 
any  medium  to  long-term  effect  was  considered  a  significant  deficiency.  A  clear  benefit  over  and 
above that of use of diuretics was hypothesized but not clearly demonstrated. The demonstrated effect 
sizes are small and the Van-Elteren analyses were post-hoc. In view of the concerns of the CHMP the 
applicant withdrew this indication during the procedure. 
Safety 
No major safety concerns have been identified with tolvaptan, except for the teratogenicity. The most 
frequent  possibly  related  treatment  emergent  adverse  events  were:  thirst,  ~18%  in  tolvaptan  group 
[~2.5% in SC group], dry mouth (8.5 vs. 2.1%), pollakiuria (frequent day time urination: 5.4 vs. 0.9%), 
fatigue (2.3 vs. 0.9%), polyuria (3.3% vs. 0.6% SC) and ventricular tachycardia (0.9% vs. 0.3% SC). 
For a large number of other adverse events, there was no difference between the two groups. 
The  serious  TEAEs  of  special  interest  (including  ventricular  tachycardia  [VT],  cardiac  arrest, 
hyperkalaemia, cerebrovascular accident, renal failure, and hypotension) all occurred with differences 
of ≤1% between the tolvaptan and the placebo groups. Among all the heart failure and hyponatraemia 
subjects, 17.2% in the tolvaptan group and 20.0% in the placebo subjects died during the on-treatment 
period. A total of 567 (17%) tolvaptan and 547 (20%) placebo subjects died and the types of events 
were  similar  for  the  2  treatment  groups.  Most  deaths  (331  [10%]  tolvaptan  subjects  and  285  [10%] 
placebo subjects) were due to events of the cardiac disorders system organ class. 
An imbalance in the number of strokes in the EVEREST trial is noted and the applicant argues that a 
specific analysis of ‘hypercoagulable state’ (stroke, arterial occlusion or myocardial infarction, etc) did 
not show differences between tolvaptan and placebo.  
No cases of demyelinisation have been identified in the clinical programme; however, a warning is 
included in section 4.4 of the SPC as this is considered a potential risk. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
Page 46 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation are acceptable. The package leaflet (PL) is presented in line with 
the  QRD  template  and  articles  59(3)  and  61(1)  of  directive  2001/83/EC.  Lay  language  is  generally 
used throughout the PL and the information is considered to be clear and understandable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Some  aspects  of  benefit in  heart failure  are  included below  as  they  may  be  of  relevance;  a  detailed 
analysis  of  benefit  risk  in  this  population  is  not  considered  necessary  however.  The  applicant  was 
ultimately only seeking the hyponatraemia indication patients with SIADH.  
Benefits 
•  Demonstrated benefits 
In  the  hyponatraemia  population,  tolvaptan  undoubtedly  improves  serum  sodium  balance  for  the 
duration of therapy and prevents progressive lowering of sodium. There is clear evidence of an effect 
on  the  serum  sodium  levels  and  the  secondary  parameters  including  urine  output,  fluid  intake  and 
overall fluid balance. Serum sodium increases from start of therapy that is titrated in order to achieve 
best results and persists up to day 30 in the two pivotal studies. There is a theoretical advantage over 
currently available therapies that hypernatraemia is not common and prevented. The MCS component 
of the SF12 questionnaire showed advantages of tolvaptan therapy over standard care in the SIADH 
and cirrhosis populations albeit with some statistical limitations (see Uncertain benefits). The effect on 
serum  sodium  is  consistent  across  the  aetiologies  (SIADH,  CHF  &  Cirrhosis)  for  normalisation  of 
sodium,  for  urine  output  and  for  overall  fluid  balance  (primary  and  secondary  efficacy  parameters). 
Similar results were seen across different volume states (euvolemic or hypervolemic) in comparison to 
standard care.  
The  applicant  presents  a  post-hoc  analysis  of  results  in  the  hyponatraemic  subgroup  from  the 
EVEREST  trial.  The  post-hoc  analysis  argues  that  in  the  subgroup  with  hyponatraemia+CHF, 
tolvaptan group had a trend to lower CV mortality/morbidity, shorter hospital stay (1.5 days), better 
KCCQ score and greater impact on dyspnoea and normalisation of sodium. Of note, these were mainly 
in the small group that had serum sodium <130mEq/L but not clear in the larger population of those 
with serum sodium <135mEq/L.  
In heart failure clinical programme, symptomatic benefit has been shown in the short term 1-7 days 
with the  majority  of  the  benefit restricted to  days  1-3,  although  a  small  but  significant  difference is 
noted on day 7 or discharge and to a maximum of 2 weeks on some parameters. Dyspnoea reduction is 
noted  on  day  1-3  and  no  further.  Pedal  oedema  was  different in  the two  groups  for  a  longer  period 
while orthopnoea was not. Tolvaptan did not have negative effect on mortality in the EVEREST trial 
but the number followed up were only 800 up to 12 months. In the heart failure population, the lack of 
any medium to long-term  effect was considered a significant disadvantage. A clear benefit over and 
above that of use of diuretics hypothesized but not clearly demonstrated. The demonstrated effect sizes 
are small and the Van-Elteren analyses were post hoc. The CHMP concerns regarding the indication of 
worsening  of  heart  failure  lead  the  applicant  to  withdrawn  this  indication  although  some  of  the 
discussion is considered relevant to the hyponatraemic population. 
•  Uncertain benefits 
In the hyponatraemia population, there are difficulties with the lack of correction of multiplicity of 
secondary parameters such as MCS and the effect size in CHF+hyponatraemia subset is smaller than 
the other two groups (SIADH and cirrhosis). While the effect size on MCS was smaller than the other 
two  aetiologies  after  correction  of  hyponatraemia,  the  applicant  has  provided  reanalysis  of  this 
subgroup in the EVEREST trial; but these effects were not seen in the major subgroup of those with 
serum  sodium  <135mEq/L.  Severe  hyponatraemia  population  was  not  included  in  the  trial,  as  such 
section 4.4 of the SPC includes a warning stating that for patients that may require rapid correction of 
serum sodium alternative treatment should be considered.  
Page 47 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is a lack of long-term data in cirrhosis patients as only few patients were followed up for 100 
weeks in the SALTWATER trial.  
Risks 
The safety dataset is of reasonable size for the indications sought although the larger studies have been 
conducted in heart failure patients. There are no major safety concerns related to tolvaptan except for 
the teratogenicity. It is questionable however whether the size of the data set and duration of treatment 
(exposure) is adequate to assess mortality. Only ~800 subjects are exposed to tolvaptan for over 1 year 
and  this  may  be  a  limitation  especially  given  the  assumptions  regarding  mortality  in  this  long 
symptomatic patient group with CHF. It is reassuring to note that for a large number of other adverse 
events  there  was  no  difference  between  the  two  groups.  Although  overall  numbers  showed  some 
differences  for  hyperkalaemia,  hypokalaemia  and  others,  these  differences  are  not  sustained  in  the 
“possibly  related  TEAEs”.  The  groups  did  not  differ  in  terms  of  the  type  and  number  of  serious 
TEAEs.  An  imbalance  in  the  number  of  strokes  in  the  EVEREST  trial  is  noted  and  the  applicant 
argues  that  a  specific  analysis  of  “hypercoagulable  state”  (stroke,  arterial  occlusion  or  myocardial 
infarction, etc.) did not show differences between tolvaptan and placebo.  
•  Demonstrated risks 
The  demonstrated  risk  remains  one  of  excess  dehydration  and  the  lack  of  clarity  regarding  use  of 
tolvaptan in association with fluid restriction especially in patients with heart failure. Teratogenicity 
has  been  identified  in  animal  studies; this  is  addressed  by  a  contraindication  in  pregnancy.  There  is 
also a contraindication in breastfeeding.  
• 
Potential risks 
Serious hypernatraemia and consequent CNS effects are a potential risk but based on the doses used in 
clinical studies this has not been seen; as a potential risk a warning is included in section 4.4 of the 
SPC regarding this point. The lack of a clear effect on clinical outcome measures could be considered 
as  another  risk  as  a  longer  follow-up  might  have  revealed  a  negative  effect  on  mortality.  These 
however remain hypothetical (or only potential risks).  
Long-term follow-up and effect especially in the cirrhosis population is of interest. The SALTWATER 
trial provides some reassurance that there have been no serious adverse events reported as of the date 
of this report. Conclusions based on this will be limited as the numbers were small. 
Risk-benefit balance 
There  is  clear  evidence  of  an  effect  on  the  serum  sodium  levels  and  the  secondary  parameters 
including urine output, fluid intake and overall fluid balance. The applicant however has not provided 
sufficient  evidence  that  correction  of  hyponatraemia  is  of  clinical  relevance  in  all  the  populations 
studied.  Whist  a  number  of  limitations  of  the  data  provided  have  been  identified  including  lack  of 
definition of crucial secondary end points, the applicant has argued that there is tangible benefit in this 
difficult  condition  to  treat.  The  important  consideration  here is that  serum  sodium  improvement  has 
been  very  well  demonstrated  in  all  three  aetiologies.  The  changes  in  MCS  and  SF12  have  their 
limitations  but  do  provide  a  validated  assessment  of  the  subtle  signs  of  changes  brought  about  by 
chronic  hyponatraemia.  These  changes  in  MCS  are  likely  to  be  most  obvious  in  those  with  severe 
hyponatraemia, a group of subjects usually excluded from clinical trials for reasons of patient safety 
and  other  reasons  (poor  recruitment,  ethical  reasons  etc).  Tolvaptan  is  not  to  be  used  where  rapid 
correction  of  serum  sodium  is  required.  Based  on  the  data  presented  thus  far  and  based  on  the 
applicant’s  explanations  to  CHMP,  the  general  view  is  that  a  clear  effect  has  been  shown  for 
correction  of  sodium  and  patient  related  benefit  in  SIADH  population.  In  the  CHF  and  cirrhosis 
populations some questions remain due to insufficient data and low patient numbers. The SALT trials 
were not powered to detect significance in each aetiology, for the secondary end points. The central 
issue therefore is whether “correction of hyponatraemia offers clinically relevant effect” and this has 
been shown for the SIADH population.  
Page 48 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were 
needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns. No additional risk minimisation activities 
were required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Samsca  in  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
hyponatraemia secondary to syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Page 49 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
