Summary of risk management plan for Sancuso (granisetron) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for  Sancuso. The RMP details important risks of 
Sancuso, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Sancuso's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Sancuso's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how Sancuso should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Sancuso should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  Sancuso's  RMP. 
I. The  medicine and what it is used for
Sancuso is authorised in adults for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately or 
highly emetogenic chemotherapy, for a planned duration of 3 to  5 consecutive days, where oral anti  emetic 
administration is  complicated by factors making swallowing difficult (see SmPC for the full indication).  It 
contains granisetron  as the active  substance  and it  is given  by transdermal  patch. 
Further information about the evaluation of Sancuso's benefits can be found in Sancuso's EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available  on the EMA  website, under the medicine's  webpage. 
II. Risks associated  with the medicine and activities to minimise or further
characterise the risks
Important risks of  Sancuso, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Sancuso's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures  to  minimise the risks identified  for medicinal products can be: 
•
•
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important  advice  on the  medicine's  packaging;
The  authorised  pack  size  -  the amount  of medicine  in  a pack  is chosen  so to  ensure  that the
medicine is used correctly;
The medicine's legal status -  the  way a medicine is supplied to  the patient (e.g. with or without
prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together,  these  measures  constitute  routine risk  minimisation  measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Sancuso is not yet available, it is listed under 
'missing information' below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  Sancuso  are  risks  that need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate 
or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a 
link  with  the  use  of  Sancuso.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of the  medicinal  product  that 
is currently  missing  and  needs  to  be collected  (e.g. on the long-term  use  of the  medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
None 
None 
Missing information 
Use in paediatrics 
Use in pregnancy 
II.B Missing information
Missing information: Use in paediatrics 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
SmPC sections  4.2, 4.5 and 5.2 
PL section 2 
Pack size: One patch per pack. 
Legal status: Prescription-only medicine 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
Missing information: Use in pregnancy 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
SmPC sections 4.6 and 5.3 
PL section 2 
Pack size: One patch per pack. 
Legal status: Prescription-only medicine 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
II.C Post-authorisation development  plan
11.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or any other specific obligations 
for Sancuso. 
11.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development  plan
There are no studies required  for Sancuso. 
