ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
  This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Saphnelo 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each mL of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 150 mg of anifrolumab.
One vial of 2.0 mL of concentrate contains 300 mg of anifrolumab (150 mg/mL).
Anifrolumab is a human, immunoglobulin G1 kappa (IgG1κ) monoclonal antibody produced in mouse 
myeloma cells (NS0) by recombinant DNA technology.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate)
Clear to opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow, pH 5.9 solution.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Saphnelo is indicated as an add-on therapy for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe,
active autoantibody-positive systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), despite standard therapy.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the treatment of SLE.
Posology
The recommended dose is 300 mg, administered as an intravenous infusion over a 30-minute period, 
every 4 weeks.
In patients with a history of infusion-related reactions, premedication (e.g., an antihistamine) may be 
administered before the infusion of anifrolumab (see section 4.4).
Missed dose
If a planned infusion is missed, treatment should be administered as soon as possible. A minimum 
interval of 14 days should be maintained between doses.
Special populations
Elderly (≥65 years old)
No dose adjustment is required. There is limited information in subjects aged ≥65 years (n=20); no 
data are available in patients over 75 years of age (see section 5.2).
2
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required. There is no experience in patients with severe renal impairment or 
end-stage renal disease (see section 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Saphnelo in children and adolescents (aged <18 years old) have not yet 
been established. No data are available.
Method of administration
For intravenous use.
Saphnelo must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection.
Following dilution with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, Saphnelo is 
administered as an infusion over 30 minutes through an intravenous infusion line containing a sterile, 
low-protein binding 0.2 or 15 micron in-line filter.
The infusion rate may be slowed or interrupted if the patient develops an infusion reaction.
Upon completion of the infusion, the infusion set should be flushed with 25 mL sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure that all of the solution for infusion has been 
administered.
Do not co-administer any other medicinal products through the same infusion line.
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Patient groups excluded from clinical studies
Anifrolumab has not been studied in combination with other biologic therapies, including B-cell-
targeted therapies. Therefore, treatment with anifrolumab is not recommended in combination with 
biologic therapies.
Anifrolumab has not been studied in patients with severe active central nervous system lupus or severe 
active lupus nephritis (see section 5.1).
Hypersensitivity
Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis have been reported following administration 
of anifrolumab (see section 4.8).
3
In the 52-week placebo-controlled clinical trials, serious hypersensitivity reactions (including 
angioedema) were reported for 0.6% of patients receiving anifrolumab.
In patients with a history of infusion-related reactions and/or hypersensitivity, premedication (e.g., an 
antihistamine) may be administered before the infusion of anifrolumab (see section 4.2).
If a serious infusion-related or hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) occurs, administration of 
anifrolumab should be interrupted immediately, and appropriate therapy initiated.
Infections
Anifrolumab increases the risk of respiratory infections and herpes zoster (disseminated herpes zoster 
events have been observed), see section 4.8. SLE patients also taking immunosuppressants may be at 
higher risk of herpes zoster infections.
In controlled-clinical trials serious and sometimes fatal infections (including pneumonia) occurred, 
including in patients receiving anifrolumab.
Due to the mechanism of action, anifrolumab should be used with caution in patients with a chronic 
infection, a history of recurrent infections, or known risk factors for infection. Treatment with 
anifrolumab should not be initiated in patients with any clinically significant active infection until the 
infection resolves or is adequately treated. Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs 
or symptoms of clinically significant infection occur. If a patient develops an infection, or is not 
responding to standard therapy, they should be closely monitored and careful consideration given to 
interrupting anifrolumab therapy until the infection resolves.
Studies in patients with a history of primary immunodeficiency have not been conducted.
The placebo-controlled clinical trials excluded patients with a history of active TB or latent TB in 
whom an adequate course of treatment could not be confirmed. Anti-tuberculosis (anti-TB) therapy 
should be considered prior to initiation of anifrolumab in patients with untreated latent TB.
Anifrolumab should not be administered to patients with active TB.
Immunisations
No data are available on the immune response to vaccines.
Prior to initiating therapy, completion of all appropriate immunisations should be considered 
according to current immunisation guidelines. Concurrent use of live or attenuated vaccines should be 
avoided in patients treated with anifrolumab.
Malignancy
The impact of treatment with anifrolumab on the potential development of malignancies is not known. 
Studies in patients with a history of malignancy have not been conducted; however, patients with 
squamous or basal cell skin cancers and uterine cervical cancer that had been fully excised or 
adequately treated were eligible for enrolment in the SLE clinical trials.
In the 52-week placebo-controlled clinical trials, at any dose, malignant neoplasm (including non-
melanoma skin cancers) was reported for 1.2% patients receiving anifrolumab, compared to 0.6% 
patients receiving placebo (exposure-adjusted incidence rate [EAIR]: 1.2 and 0.7 events per 
100 patient years (PY), respectively). Malignancies excluding non-melanoma skin cancers were 
observed in 0.7% and 0.6% of patients receiving anifrolumab and placebo, respectively. In patients 
receiving anifrolumab, breast and squamous cell carcinoma were the malignancies observed in more 
than one patient.
4
Individual benefit-risk should be considered in patients with known risk factors for the development or 
reoccurrence of malignancy. Caution should be exercised when considering continuing therapy for 
patients who develop malignancy.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
No interaction studies have been performed.
Anifrolumab is not expected to undergo metabolism by hepatic enzymes or renal elimination.
The formation of some CYP450 enzymes is suppressed by increased levels of certain cytokines during 
chronic inflammation. Anifrolumab modestly suppresses the levels of some cytokines; the impact on 
CYP450 activity is unknown. In patients who are being treated with other medicines that are CYP 
substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, where the dose is individually adjusted (e.g., warfarin), 
therapeutic monitoring is recommended.
Immune response
Concomitant administration of anifrolumab with vaccines has not been studied (see section 4.4).
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are limited data (less than 300 pregnancy outcomes) from the use of Saphnelo in pregnant 
women.
Animal studies are inconclusive with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).
Saphnelo is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception, unless the possible benefit justifies the potential risk.
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether anifrolumab is excreted in human milk. Anifrolumab was detected in the milk 
of female cynomolgus monkeys (see section 5.3).
A risk to the suckling child cannot be excluded.
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue from Saphnelo
therapy, taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for 
the woman.
Fertility
There are no fertility data in humans.
Animal studies show no adverse effects of anifrolumab on indirect measures of fertility (see 
section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Saphnelo has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
5
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most commonly reported adverse reactions during anifrolumab treatment were upper respiratory 
tract infection (34%), bronchitis (11%), infusion-related reaction (9.4%) and herpes zoster (6.1%). The 
most common serious adverse reaction was herpes zoster (0.4%).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions reported from controlled clinical trials are classified by MedDRA System Organ 
Class (SOC), see Table 1. Within each SOC, preferred terms are arranged by decreasing frequency and 
then by decreasing seriousness. Frequencies of occurrence of adverse reactions are defined as: very 
common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to 
<1/1 000); very rare (<1/10 000) and not known (cannot be estimated from available data).
Table 1
Adverse reactions
MedDRA SOC
MedDRA Preferred Term 
Frequency
Infections and 
infestations
Immune system 
disorders
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications
Upper respiratory tract infection*
Very common 
Bronchitis*
Herpes Zoster 
Respiratory tract infection*
Hypersensitivity
Anaphylactic reaction
Infusion related reaction
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon§
Common 
* Grouped terms: Upper respiratory tract infection (including Upper respiratory tract infection, Nasopharyngitis, 
Pharyngitis); Bronchitis (including Bronchitis, Bronchitis viral, Tracheobronchitis); Respiratory tract infection 
(including Respiratory tract infection, Respiratory tract infection viral, Respiratory tract infection bacterial).
§ see ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ below and section 4.4.
Long-term safety 
Patients who completed Trials 1 and 2 (Phase III feeder trials) through Week 52 were eligible to 
continue on treatment in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled long-term extension (LTE)
for an additional 3 years (see section 5.1). The overall long-term safety profile of anifrolumab was 
consistent with the 52-week trials.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hypersensitivity and infusion-related reactions
The incidence of hypersensitivity reactions was 2.8% in the anifrolumab group and 0.6% in the 
placebo group. All hypersensitivity reactions were reported within the first 6 infusions. 
Hypersensitivity reactions were predominantly mild to moderate in intensity and did not lead to 
discontinuation of anifrolumab therapy. One serious adverse reaction of hypersensitivity was reported 
during the patient’s first infusion; the patient continued to receive anifrolumab with premedication 
given for subsequent infusions.
In the SLE development program, anaphylactic reaction was reported for 0.1% (1/837) of patients; the 
event occurred following the administration of 150 mg anifrolumab, the patient was treated and 
recovered (see section 4.4).
6
The incidence of infusion-related reactions was 9.4% in the anifrolumab group and 7.1% in the 
placebo group. Infusion-related reactions were mild or moderate in intensity (the most common 
symptoms were headache, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and dizziness); none were serious, and none led 
to discontinuation of anifrolumab. Infusion-related reactions were most commonly reported at the start 
of treatment, on the first and second infusions, with fewer reports on subsequent infusions.
Respiratory infections
Reporting rates for anifrolumab compared to placebo were; upper respiratory tract infection (34.4% vs 
23.2%), bronchitis (10.7% vs 5.2%) and respiratory tract infection (3.3% vs 1.5%). Infections were 
predominantly non-serious, mild or moderate in intensity and resolved without discontinuation of 
anifrolumab therapy (see section 4.4).
Herpes zoster
In the 52 week clinical trials the incidence of herpes zoster infections was 6.1% in the anifrolumab 
group and 1.3% in the placebo group (see section 4.4), the mean time to onset was 139 days (range 
2-351 days). Subsequently, in the LTE incidence rates decreased over time.
Herpes zoster infections were predominantly of localised cutaneous presentation, mild or moderate in 
intensity and resolved without discontinuation of anifrolumab therapy. Cases with multidermatomal 
involvement and cases of disseminated disease (including central nervous system involvement) have 
been reported (see section 4.4).
Immunogenicity
In the Phase III trials, treatment-emergent anti-drug antibodies were detected in 6 out of 352 (1.7%) 
patients treated with anifrolumab at the recommended dosing regimen during the 60-week study 
period.
In the Phase III LTE (years 2 through 4 on treatment), treatment-emergent anti-drug antibodies were 
detected in an additional 5 patients treated with anifrolumab.
Due to methodological limitations, the clinical relevance of these findings is not known.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
In clinical trials, doses of up to 1 000 mg have been administered intravenously in patients with SLE 
with no evidence of dose limiting toxicities.
There is no specific treatment for an overdose with anifrolumab. If overdose occurs, the patient should 
be treated supportively with appropriate monitoring as necessary.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Monoclonal antibodies, ATC code: L04AG11
7
Mechanism of action
Anifrolumab is a human immunoglobulin G1 kappa monoclonal antibody that binds to subunit 1 of the 
type I interferon receptor (IFNAR1) with high specificity and affinity. This binding inhibits type I IFN 
signalling thereby blocking the biologic activity of type I IFNs. Anifrolumab also induces the 
internalisation of IFNAR1, thereby reducing the levels of cell surface IFNAR1 available for receptor 
assembly. Blockade of receptor mediated type I IFN signalling inhibits IFN responsive gene 
expression as well as downstream inflammatory and immunological processes. Inhibition of type I 
IFN blocks plasma cell differentiation and normalises peripheral T-cell subsets, restoring the balance 
between adaptive and innate immunity that is dysregulated in SLE.
Pharmacodynamic effects
In adult patients with SLE, administration of anifrolumab at doses ≥300 mg, via intravenous infusion 
every 4 weeks, demonstrated consistent neutralisation (≥80%) of a 21 gene type I interferon 
pharmacodynamic (PD) signature in blood. This suppression occurred as early as 4 weeks post-
treatment and was either maintained or further suppressed over the 52-week treatment period. 
Following withdrawal of anifrolumab at the end of the 52-week treatment period in the SLE clinical 
trials, the type I IFN PD signature in blood samples returned to baseline levels within 8 to 12 weeks.
Anifrolumab 150 mg IV showed <20% suppression of the gene signature at early timepoints, that 
reached a maximum of <60% by the end of the treatment period.
In SLE patients with positive anti-dsDNA antibodies at baseline, treatment with anifrolumab 300 mg 
led to numerical reductions in anti-dsDNA antibodies over time through Week 52.
In patients with low complement levels (C3 and C4), increases in complement levels were observed in 
patients receiving anifrolumab through Week 52.
Clinical efficacy
The safety and efficacy of anifrolumab were evaluated in two 52-week treatment period, multicentre, 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase III studies (Trial 1 [TULIP 1] and Trial 2
[TULIP 2]). Patients were diagnosed with SLE according to the American College of Rheumatology 
(1997) classification criteria.
All patients were ≥18 years of age and had moderate to severe disease, with a SLE Disease Activity 
Index 2000 (SLEDAI-2K) score ≥6 points, organ level involvement based on British Isles Lupus 
Assessment Group (BILAG) assessment, and a Physician’s Global Assessment [PGA] score ≥1, 
despite receiving standard SLE therapy consisting of either one or any combination of oral 
corticosteroids (OCS), antimalarials and/or immunosuppressants at baseline. With the exception of 
OCS (prednisone or equivalent) where tapering was a component of the protocol, patients continued to 
receive their existing SLE therapy at stable doses during the clinical trials. Patients who had severe 
active lupus nephritis and patients who had severe active central nervous system lupus were excluded. 
The use of other biologic agents and cyclophosphamide were not permitted during the clinical trials. 
Patients receiving other biologic therapies were required to complete a wash-out period of at least 
5 half-lives prior to enrolment. Both studies were conducted in North America, Europe, South 
America and Asia. Patients received anifrolumab or placebo, administered by intravenous infusion, 
every 4 weeks.
Trial 1 (N=457) and Trial 2 (N=362) were similar in design.
In Trial 1 the primary endpoint was SLE Responder Index (SRI-4) response, defined as meeting each 
of the following criteria at Week 52 compared with baseline:


Reduction from baseline of ≥4 points in the SLEDAI-2K;
No new organ system affected as defined by 1 or more BILAG A or 2 or more BILAG B items 
compared to baseline;
8



No worsening from baseline in the lupus disease activity defined by an increase ≥0.30 points on 
a 3-point PGA visual analogue scale (VAS);
No use of restricted medication beyond the protocol-allowed thresholds;
No discontinuation of treatment.
In Trial 2 the primary endpoint was British Isles Lupus Assessment Group based Composite Lupus 
Assessment (BICLA) response at Week 52, defined as improvement in all organ domains with 
moderate or severe activity at baseline:

Reduction of all baseline BILAG A to B/C/D and baseline BILAG B to C/D, and no BILAG 
worsening in other organ systems, as defined by ≥1 new BILAG A or ≥2 new BILAG B;
No worsening from baseline in SLEDAI-2K, where worsening is defined as an increase from 
baseline of >0 points;
No worsening from baseline in lupus disease activity, where worsening is defined by an 
increase ≥0.30 points on a 3-point PGA VAS;
No use of restricted medication beyond the protocol-allowed thresholds;
No discontinuation of treatment.




The secondary efficacy endpoints included in both studies included maintenance of OCS reduction
and annual flare rate. Both studies evaluated the efficacy of anifrolumab 300 mg versus placebo.
Patient demographics were generally similar in both trials; the median age was 41.3 and 42.1 years 
(range 18-69), 4.4% and 1.7% were ≥65 years of age, 92% and 93% were female, 71% and 60% were 
White, 14% and 12% were Black/African American, and 5% and 17% were Asian, in Trials 1 and 2
respectively. In both trials, 72% of patients had high disease activity (SLEDAI-2K score ≥10). In 
Trials 1 and 2 respectively, 47% and 49% had severe disease (BILAG A) in at least 1 organ system 
and 46% and 47% of patients had moderate disease (BILAG B) in at least 2 organ systems. The most 
commonly affected organ systems (BILAG A or B at baseline) were the mucocutaneous (Trial 1: 87%, 
Trial 2: 85%) and musculoskeletal (Trial 1: 89%, Trial 2: 88%) systems.
In Trials 1 and 2, 90% of patients (both trials) were seropositive for anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA), 
and 45% and 44% for anti-double-stranded DNA (anti-dsDNA) antibodies; 34% and 40% of patients 
had low C3, and 21% and 26% had low C4.
Baseline concomitant standard therapy medications included oral corticosteroids (Trial 1: 83%, 
Trial 2: 81%), antimalarials (Trial 1: 73%, Trial 2: 70%) and immunosuppressants (Trial 1: 47%, 
Trial 2: 48%; including azathioprine, methotrexate, mycophenolate and mizoribine). For those patients 
taking OCS (prednisone or equivalent) at baseline, the mean daily dose was 12.3 mg in Trial 1 and 
10.7 mg in Trial 2. During Weeks 8-40, patients with a baseline OCS ≥10 mg/day were required to 
taper their OCS dose to ≤7.5 mg/day, unless there was worsening of disease activity.
For BICLA and SRI(4) response, patients who withdrew from treatment prior to Week 52 were 
considered non-responders. In Trial 1 and 2 respectively, 35 (19%) and 27 (15%) patients receiving 
anifrolumab, and 38 (21%) and 52 (29%) patients receiving placebo withdrew from treatment prior to 
Week 52. The results are presented in Table 2.
Table 2
Efficacy results in adults with SLE in Trial 1 and Trial 2
Trial 1
Trial 2
Anifrolumab 
300 mg
Placebo
Anifrolumab 
300 mg
Placebo
BICLA response at Week 52*
Responder rate, % (n/N)
47.1 (85/180)
30.2 (55/184)
47.8 (86/180)
31.5 (57/182)
Difference % (95% CI)
17.0 (7.2, 26.8)
16.3 (6.3, 26.3)
9
Trial 1
Trial 2
Anifrolumab 
300 mg
Placebo
Anifrolumab 
300 mg
Placebo
Components of BICLA response:
BILAG improvement, n (%) †
85 (47.2)
58 (31.5)
No worsening of SLEDAI-2K, n (%) †
121 (67.2)
104 (56.5)
No worsening of PGA, n (%) †
117 (65.0)
105 (57.1)
88 (48.9)
122 (67.8)
122 (67.8)
59 (32.4)
94 (51.6)
95 (52.2)
No discontinuation of treatment, n (%)
145 (80.6)
146 (79.3)
153 (85.0)
130 (71.4)
No use of restricted medication beyond 
protocol allowed threshold, n (%)
140 (77.8)
128 (69.6)
144 (80.0)
123 (67.6)
SRI-4 response at Week 52*
Responder rate, % (n/N) †
Difference % (95% CI)
Sustained OCS reduction ‡
Responder rate, % (n/N) †
49.0 (88/180)
43.0 (79/184)
55.5 (100/180)
37.3 (68/182)
6.0 (-4.2, 16.2)
18.2 (8.1, 28.3)
49.7 (51/103)
33.1 (34/102)
51.5 (45/87)
30.2 (25/83)
Difference % (95% CI)
16.6 (3.4, 29.8)
21.2 (6.8, 35.7)
Flare rate
Annualised flare rate estimate, 
0.57 
0.68 
0.43 
0.64 
(95% CI)
(0.43, 0.76)
(0.52, 0.90)
(0.31, 0.59)
(0.47, 0.86)
Rate ratio estimate (95% CI)
0.83 (0.61, 1.15)
0.67 (0.48, 0.94)
BICLA: British Isles Lupus Assessment Group-based Composite Lupus Assessment; BILAG: British Isles Lupus 
Assessment Group, PGA: Physician’s Global Assessment; SLEDAI-2K: Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity 
Index 2000; SRI-4: SLE Responder Index.
All patients received standard therapy.
* BICLA and SRI(4) are based on the composite estimand where treatment discontinuation or restricted medication use are 
part of the response criteria.
†  Patients who discontinued treatment or used restricted medications beyond protocol allowed threshold are considered 
‡
non-responders.
Subgroup of patients with OCS ≥10 mg/day at baseline. Responders were defined as patients with OCS reduction to 
≤7.5 mg/day at Week 40, maintained through Week 52.
Long-term extension 
Patients who completed Trials 1 and 2 (feeder trials) through Week 52 were eligible to continue on 
treatment in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-year LTE. Patients who had received 
anifrolumab, either 150 mg or 300 mg, in Trials 1 and 2 received anifrolumab 300 mg in the LTE. 
Patients who had received placebo in Trials 1 and 2 were re-randomised 1:1 to receive either 
anifrolumab 300 mg or placebo, giving an approximate anifrolumab 300 mg: placebo ratio of 4:1 in 
the LTE.
Long-term efficacy was evaluated in patients who received anifrolumab 300 mg or placebo in a feeder 
trial and continued to receive the same treatment in the LTE (anifrolumab N=257; placebo N=112). Of 
these, 69% of patients who received anifrolumab (177/257) and 46% of patients who received placebo 
(52/112) completed a total of 4 years on treatment. At Week 208, the mean SLEDAI-2K score (SE) 
was 3.4 (0.25) and 4.0 (0.46) in patients who received anifrolumab (n=140) and placebo (n=44) 
respectively.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
anifrolumab in one or more subset of the paediatric population in treatment of systemic lupus 
erythematosus (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
10
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetics (PK) of anifrolumab was studied in adult patients with SLE following 
intravenous doses ranging from 100 to 1 000 mg, once every 4 weeks, and healthy volunteers 
following a single dose.
Anifrolumab exhibits nonlinear PK in the dose range of 100 mg to 1 000 mg. PK exposure decreased 
more rapidly at doses lower than 300 mg every 4 weeks (the recommended dose).
Absorption
Anifrolumab is administered by intravenous infusion.
Distribution
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, the estimated central and peripheral volumes of 
distribution for anifrolumab were 2.93 L (with 26.9% CV inter-individual variability) and 3.3 L, 
respectively for a 69.1 kg patient.
Biotransformation
Anifrolumab is a protein, therefore specific metabolism studies have not been conducted.
Anifrolumab is eliminated by target IFNAR-mediated elimination pathway and reticuloendothelial 
system where anifrolumab is expected to be degraded, into small peptides and individual amino acids, 
by proteolytic enzymes that are widely distributed in the body.
Elimination
Due to saturation of IFNAR1-mediated clearance at higher doses, exposure increases are greater-than-
dose-proportional. 
From population PK modelling the estimated typical systemic clearance (CL) was 0.193 L/day with a 
33.0% CV inter-individual variability. The median CL decreases slowly over time, with an 8.4% 
reduction after 1 year of treatment. Following long-term observations, the clearance of anifrolumab 
was found to be stable in years 2 through 4 on treatment.
Based on population PK analysis, serum concentrations were below detection in the majority (95%) of 
patients approximately 16 weeks after the last dose of anifrolumab, when anifrolumab has been dosed 
for one year.
Special populations
There was no clinically meaningful difference in systemic clearance based on age, race, ethnicity, 
region, gender, IFN status or body weight that requires dose adjustment.
Elderly patients (≥ 65 years old)
Based on the population PK analysis, age (range 18 to 69 years) did not impact the clearance of 
anifrolumab; the population PK dataset included 20 (3%) patients ≥65 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
No specific clinical studies have been conducted to investigate the effect of renal impairment on 
anifrolumab. Based on population PK analyses, anifrolumab clearance was comparable in SLE 
patients with mild (60-89 mL/min/1.73 m2) and moderate decrease in eGFR (30-59 mL/min/1.73 m2) 
values and patients with normal renal function (≥90 mL/min/1.73 m2). SLE patients with a severe 
11
decrease in eGFR or end-stage renal disease (<30 mL/min/1.73 m2) were excluded from the clinical 
trials; anifrolumab is not cleared renally.
Patients with UPCR >2 mg/mg were excluded from the clinical trials. Based on population PK 
analyses, increased urine protein/creatinine ratio (UPCR) did not significantly affect anifrolumab 
clearance.
Hepatic impairment 
No specific clinical studies have been conducted to investigate the effect of hepatic impairment on 
anifrolumab.
As an IgG1 monoclonal antibody, anifrolumab is principally eliminated via catabolism and is not 
expected to undergo metabolism via hepatic enzymes, as such changes in hepatic function are unlikely 
to have any effect on the elimination of anifrolumab. Based on population pharmacokinetic analyses, 
baseline hepatic function biomarkers (ALT and AST ≤2.0 × ULN, and total bilirubin) had no clinically 
relevant effect on anifrolumab clearance.
Interactions
Based on population PK analyses, concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, antimalarials, 
immunosuppressants (including azathioprine, methotrexate, mycophenolate and mizoribine), 
NSAIDS, ACE inhibitors, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors did not significantly influence the PK of 
anifrolumab.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology or repeated dose toxicity studies in cynomolgus monkeys.
Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity
Anifrolumab is a monoclonal antibody, as such genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies have not been 
conducted.
In rodent models of IFNAR1 blockade, increased carcinogenic potential has been observed. The 
clinical relevance of these findings is unknown.
Reproductive toxicity
Developmental toxicity
In a pre- and postnatal development study, conducted in cynomolgus monkeys, there was an increased 
incidence of embryo-foetal loss; the incidence of these findings were within historical control values 
and were not statistically significant. The relevance of these findings to humans is not known. No
maternal, or postnatal developmental effects were observed for exposures up to approximately 
28-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on an AUC basis. Based on the available 
data, a potential effect of anifrolumab on conception and implantation cannot be excluded.
Fertility
Effects on male and female fertility have not been directly evaluated in animal studies. In the 9-month 
repeat-dose study, there were no anifrolumab-related adverse effects on indirect measures of male or 
female fertility, based on semen analysis, spermatogenesis staging, menses cycle, organ weights and 
histopathological findings in the reproductive organs, in cynomolgus monkeys at approximately 
58-times the MRHD on an AUC basis.
12
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Histidine
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate
Lysine hydrochloride
Trehalose dihydrate
Polysorbate 80
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products.
6.3
Shelf life
Unopened vial
3 years.
Diluted solution for infusion
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C – 8°C and for 
4 hours at 25°C.
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately after dilution. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C – 8°C.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Unopened vial
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C).
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
Do not freeze or shake.
Diluted solution for infusion
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
2.0 mL of concentrate in a clear type I glass vial with an elastomeric stopper and a gray flip-off 
aluminium seal.
Pack size of 1 vial.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Saphnelo is supplied as a single-dose vial. The solution for infusion should be prepared and 
administered by a healthcare professional, using aseptic technique as follows:
13
Preparation of solution
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Visually inspect the vial for particulate matter and discolouration. Saphnelo is a clear to 
opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution. Discard the vial if the solution is cloudy, 
discoloured or visible particles are observed. Do not shake the vial.
Dilute 2.0 mL of Saphnelo solution for infusion in an infusion bag to 50 mL or 100 mL with 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection.
Mix the solution by gentle inversion. Do not shake.
Any concentrate remaining in the vial must be discarded.
It is recommended that the solution for infusion should be administered immediately after 
preparation. If the solution for infusion has been stored in a refrigerator (see section 6.3), allow 
it to reach room temperature (15°C – 25°C) prior to administration.
Disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85
Södertälje
Sweden
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1623/001
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 14 February 2022
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
14
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
15
A. MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Frederick Manufacturing Center (FMC)
633 Research Court
Frederick, Maryland
21703
United States
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
AstraZeneca AB
Gärtunavägen
SE-152 57 Södertälje
Sweden
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
16
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
17
A. LABELLING
18
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Saphnelo 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
anifrolumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial of 2 mL of concentrate contains 300 mg of anifrolumab (150 mg/mL).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, lysine hydrochloride, trehalose dihydrate, 
polysorbate 80, water for injections
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Concentrate for solution for infusion
1 vial
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
For intravenous use after dilution.
Read the package leaflet before use.
For single use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze or shake.
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
19
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1623/001
1 vial
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
20
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Saphnelo 300 mg sterile concentrate
anifrolumab
IV
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
2 mL
6.
OTHER
AstraZeneca 
21
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
22
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Saphnelo 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
anifrolumab
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important
information for you.



Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What Saphnelo is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you are given Saphnelo
3. How Saphnelo is used
4.
Possible side effects
5. How to store Saphnelo
6. Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Saphnelo is and what it is used for
What Saphnelo is 
Saphnelo contains the active substance anifrolumab, a ‘monoclonal antibody’ (a type of specialised 
protein that attaches to a specific target in the body).
What Saphnelo is used for
Saphnelo is used to treat moderate to severe lupus (systemic lupus erythematosus, SLE) in adults 
whose disease is not well controlled by standard therapies (‘oral corticosteroids’, 
‘immunosuppressants’ and/or ‘antimalarials’).
You will be given Saphnelo as well as your standard therapy for lupus.
Lupus is a disease in which the system that fights infections (the immune system) attacks your own 
cells and tissues. This causes inflammation and organ damage. It can affect almost any organ in the 
body, including skin, joints, kidneys, brain and other organs. It can cause pain, rashes, swelling in 
joints, fevers and make you feel very tired or weak.
How Saphnelo works
People with lupus have high levels of proteins called ‘type I interferons’ which stimulate the activity 
of the immune system. Anifrolumab attaches to a target (receptor) that these proteins act on, stopping 
them from working. Blocking their action in this way can reduce the inflammation in your body that 
causes the signs of lupus.
The benefits of using Saphnelo
Saphnelo may help to reduce your lupus disease activity and reduce the number of lupus flares you 
have. If you are taking medicines called ‘oral corticosteroids’, using Saphnelo may also allow your 
doctor to reduce the daily dose of oral corticosteroids that is needed to help control your lupus.
23
2. What you need to know before you are given Saphnelo
You should not be given Saphnelo

if you are allergic to anifrolumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). Talk to your doctor or nurse if you are not sure.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Saphnelo:

if you think you have had an allergic reaction to this medicine at any time (see below under 
‘Look out for signs of serious allergic reactions and infections’).
if you get an infection or have symptoms of an infection (see below under ‘Look out for signs 
of serious allergic reactions and infections’).
if you have a long-term infection or if you have an infection that keeps coming back.
if your lupus affects your kidneys or nervous system.
if you have, or have had, cancer.
if you have recently had an immunisation (vaccine) or plan to have one. You should not be 
given certain types of vaccines (‘live’ or ‘live attenuated’ vaccines) while being treated with this 
medicine.
if you are receiving another biologic medicinal product (such as belimumab for your lupus).






If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given 
Saphnelo.
Look out for signs of serious allergic reactions and infections
Saphnelo may cause serious allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) see section 4. Get medical attention 
immediately if you think you may be having a serious allergic reaction. Signs may include:



swelling of your face, tongue, or mouth
breathing difficulties
feeling faint, dizzy or lightheaded (due to a drop in blood pressure).
You may be more at risk of getting an infection when you are being treated with Saphnelo. Tell your 
doctor or nurse as soon as possible if you notice signs of any possible infection, including:



fever or flu-like symptoms
muscle aches
cough or feeling short of breath (these may be signs of an infection in your airways, see 
section 4)
burning when you urinate or passing urine more often than usual
diarrhoea or stomach pain
red skin rash that can cause pain and burning (this may be a sign of shingles, see section 4).



Children and adolescents
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents less than 18 years of age because it has not been 
studied in this age group.
Other medicines and Saphnelo


Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
Tell your doctor if you have recently had or are going to have a vaccination. You should not be 
given certain types of vaccines while using this medicine. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor
or nurse before and during treatment with Saphnelo.
Pregnancy and Breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.
24
Pregnancy
It is not known if Saphnelo can harm your unborn baby.

Before you start treatment with Saphnelo, tell your doctor if you are pregnant or think you 
may be pregnant. Your doctor will decide if you can be given this medicine.
Talk to your doctor if you plan to become pregnant while being treated with this medicine. 
If you become pregnant while being treated with Saphnelo, tell your doctor. They will discuss 
with you whether you should stop treatment with this medicine.


Breast-feeding

Before you start treatment with Saphnelo, tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. It is 
not known whether this medicine is passed into breast milk. Your doctor will discuss with you 
whether you should stop treatment with this medicine while you are breast-feeding, or if you 
should stop breast-feeding.
Driving and using machines
It is unlikely that this medicine will affect your ability to drive and use machines.
3.
How Saphnelo is used
A nurse or doctor will give you Saphnelo.
The recommended dose is 300 mg.

It is given through a drip into a vein (intravenous infusion) over 30 minutes.

It is given every 4 weeks.

If you miss an appointment to get Saphnelo call your doctor as soon as possible to make another
appointment.
Stopping treatment with Saphnelo
Your doctor will decide if you need to stop being treated with this medicine.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Serious allergic reactions:
Serious allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) are uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people). Get
medical attention immediately, or go to the nearest emergency department, if you get any of the 
following signs of a serious allergic reaction:
swelling of your face, tongue, or mouth

breathing difficulties

feeling faint, dizzy or lightheaded (due to a drop in blood pressure).

Other side effects:
Tell your doctor or nurse if you get any of the following side effects.
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)


infections of the nose or throat
chest infection (bronchitis)
25
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
infections of the sinuses or lungs

shingles (herpes zoster) - a red skin rash that can cause pain and burning

allergic (hypersensitivity) reactions

infusion reactions - can happen at the time of the infusion or shortly after; symptoms may 

include headache, feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting), feeling very tired or weak 
(fatigue) and feeling dizzy
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.
5.
How to store Saphnelo
The doctor, nurse or pharmacist is responsible for storing this medicine. The storage details are as 
follows:





Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial label and carton after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C).
Do not freeze or shake.
Store in the original package to protect from light.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Saphnelo contains


The active substance is anifrolumab. Each vial contains 300 mg anifrolumab.
The other ingredients are histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, lysine hydrochloride, 
trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 80 and water for injections.
What Saphnelo looks like and contents of the pack
Saphnelo is supplied as a clear to opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow concentrate solution.
Saphnelo is available in packs containing 1 vial.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
Manufacturer
AstraZeneca AB
Gärtunavägen
SE-152 57 Södertälje
Sweden
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
26
België/Belgique/Belgien
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
България
АстраЗенека България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 24455000
Česká republika
AstraZeneca Czech Republic s.r.o.
Tel: +420 222 807 111
Danmark
AstraZeneca A/S
Tlf: +45 43 66 64 62
Deutschland
AstraZeneca GmbH
Tel: +49 40 809034100
Eesti
AstraZeneca 
Tel: +372 6549 600
Ελλάδα
AstraZeneca A.E.
Τηλ: +30 210 6871500
Lietuva
UAB AstraZeneca Lietuva
Tel: +370 5 2660550
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
Magyarország
AstraZeneca Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 883 6500
Malta
Associated Drug Co. Ltd
Tel: +356 2277 8000
Nederland
AstraZeneca BV
Tel: +31 85 808 9900
Norge
AstraZeneca AS
Tlf: +47 21 00 64 00
Österreich
AstraZeneca Österreich GmbH
Tel: +43 1 711 31 0
España
AstraZeneca Farmacéutica Spain, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 301 91 00
Polska
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 245 73 00
France
AstraZeneca
Tél: +33 1 41 29 40 00
Hrvatska 
AstraZeneca d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 4628 000
Portugal
AstraZeneca Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 434 61 00
România
AstraZeneca Pharma SRL
Tel: +40 21 317 60 41
Ireland
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) DAC
Tel: +353 1609 7100
Slovenija
AstraZeneca UK Limited
Tel: +386 1 51 35 600
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
AstraZeneca S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 00704500
Κύπρος
Αλέκτωρ Φαρµακευτική Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22490305
Slovenská republika
AstraZeneca AB, o.z.
Tel: +421 2 5737 7777 
Suomi/Finland
AstraZeneca Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 10 23 010
Sverige
AstraZeneca AB
Tel: +46 8 553 26 000
27
Latvija
SIA AstraZeneca Latvija
Tel: +371 67377100
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
AstraZeneca UK Ltd
Tel: +44 1582 836 836
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
In order to improve the traceability, the name and the batch number of the administered product 
should be clearly recorded.
Saphnelo is supplied as a single-dose vial. The solution for infusion should be prepared and 
administered by a healthcare professional, using aseptic technique as follows:
Preparation of solution
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Visually inspect the vial for particulate matter and discolouration. Saphnelo is a clear to 
opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution. Discard the vial if the solution is cloudy, 
discoloured or visible particles are observed. Do not shake the vial.
Dilute 2.0 mL of the Saphnelo solution for infusion in an infusion bag to 50 mL or 100 mL with 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection.
Mix the solution by gentle inversion. Do not shake.
Any concentrate remaining in the vial must be discarded.
From a microbiological point of view, once diluted the medicinal product should be used 
immediately. If not used immediately, chemical and physical in-use stability has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C – 8°C or for 4 hours at room temperature. Discard the diluted 
solution if not used within that time.
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility 
of the user.
Administration
1.
2.
3.
It is recommended that the solution for infusion be administered immediately after preparation. 
If the solution for infusion has been stored in a refrigerator, allow it to reach room temperature 
(15°C to 25°C) prior to administration.
Administer the infusion solution intravenously over 30 minutes through an intravenous line 
containing a sterile, low-protein binding 0.2 or 15 micron in-line filter.
Upon completion of the infusion, flush the infusion set with 25 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection to ensure that all of the solution for infusion has been administered.
4.
Do not co-administer other medicinal products through the same infusion line.
28
Disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
29
