Summary of risk management plan for Sapropterin Dipharma 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Sapropterin Dipharma. The RMP details 
important  risks  of  Sapropterin  Dipharma,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  Sapropterin  Dipharma's  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Sapropterin Dipharma's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Sapropterin  Dipharma 
should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Sapropterin  Dipharma  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Sapropterin 
Dipharma's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Sapropterin  Dipharma  is  authorised  to  treat  high  blood  levels  of  phenylalanine  in  adults  and 
children of all ages with the genetic disorders phenylketonuria (PKU) or tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) 
deficiency. It contains sapropterin dihydrochloride as the active substance and it is given orally as 
a soluble tablet (100 mg) or as powder for oral solution (100 or 500 mg). 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Sapropterin  Dipharma's  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Sapropterin  Dipharma's  EPAR,  including  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sapropterin-dipharma 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Sapropterin Dipharma, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about the risks of Sapropterin Dipharma, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Sapropterin Dipharma is not yet available, 
it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Sapropterin Dipharma are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Sapropterin Dipharma. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypophenylalaninaemia 
Interaction with vasodilators using NO metabolism, DHFR 
Inhibitors, or levodopa 
Behavioral change 
Convulsion, including worsening 
Epigastric ulcer 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease 
Nephrotoxicity 
Nephrolithiasis 
New-onset anxiety disorder 
Worsening psychiatric disorder 
Size of safety database 
Long-term use 
Limited BH4 deficiency data 
Subgroup experience: 
•  Use in the elderly 
•  Use in breast-feeding 
•  Use in patients with hepatic failure 
•  Use in patients with renal failure 
•  Use in patients with moderate to severe neurocognitive 
disability 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product, Kuvan. 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Sapropterin Dipharma. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Sapropterin Dipharma. 
 
 
 
 
 
