30 May 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-465242 
EMAOD0000019553  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Sarclisa (isatuximab, humanised monoclonal antibody against CD38) 
Treatment of plasma cell myeloma 
EU/3/14/1268 
Sponsor: Sanofi-Aventis Groupe 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 5 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 9 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMAOD0000019553  
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances at the time of orphan 
Humanised monoclonal antibody against CD38  
designation 
Other name(s) 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
SAR650984 
Isatuximab 
Sarclisa 
Treatment of plasma cell myeloma  
Sanofi-Aventis Groupe   
54 Rue La Boetie 
75008 Paris 
France  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Sanofi-Aventis Groupe 
12 March 2014 
29 April 2014 
EU/3/14/1268 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
P. B. van Hennik / A. Moreau 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Sanofi-Aventis Groupe   
30 April 2019 
23 May 2019 
EMA/H/C/004977/0000 
Sarclisa 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
SARCLISA is indicated, in combination with 
pomalidomide and dexamethasone, for the treatment 
of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple 
myeloma (MM) who have received at least two prior 
therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome 
inhibitor (PI) and have demonstrated disease 
progression on the last therapy. Further information on 
Sarclisa can be found in the European public 
assessment report (EPAR) on the Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPA
R/Sarclisa 
CHMP opinion date 
26 March 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
K. Penttila / E. J. Rook 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
2 October 2019 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
18-20 February 2020  
questions  
Oral explanation  
Sponsor’s removal request  
22 April 2020 
23 April 2020 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMAOD0000019553  
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2014 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
The sponsor Sanofi-Aventis Groupe submitted on 6 December 2013 an application for designation as 
an orphan medicinal product to the European Medicines Agency for a medicinal product containing 
humanised monoclonal antibody against CD38 for treatment of plasma cell myeloma (hereinafter 
referred to as “the condition”). The application was submitted on the basis of Article 3(1)(a) first 
paragraph of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products. 
Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the following: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing humanised monoclonal 
antibody against CD38 was considered justified based on preclinical in vivo and preliminary clinical 
data in patients with the condition; 
the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to the development of hypercalcaemia, 
renal insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with an overall survival of up to 
approximately 45 months for newly diagnosed patients; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 1.8 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made.  
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing humanised monoclonal antibody against CD38 may be of significant benefit to those 
affected by the condition. The sponsor has provided pre-clinical in vivo and preliminary clinical data 
that demonstrate a prolongation of tumour free survival in the pre-clinical models when used in 
combination with other anti-neoplastic agents and the efficacy in patients with the condition who have 
relapsed or refractory disease when they have received the current standard of care. The Committee 
considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
Thus, the requirement under Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products is fulfilled. 
The COMP concludes that the requirements laid down in Article (3)(1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EC) 
No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products are fulfilled. The COMP therefore recommends the 
designation of this medicinal product, containing humanised monoclonal antibody against CD38, as an 
orphan medicinal product for the orphan indication: treatment of plasma cell myeloma. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMAOD0000019553  
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Plasma cell myeloma (hereafter referred to as multiple myeloma) is a bone-marrow based multifocal 
neoplasm associated with an M-protein in serum or urine. Chronic antigen stimulation from infection or 
other disease and exposure to specific toxic substances or irradiation have been implicated in the 
aetiology of the condition.  
Symptomatic multiple myeloma is defined by the presence of end-organ damage (CRAB criteria: 
hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, anaemia, bone lesions) in a patient with an M component and clonal 
BM cells. Asymptomatic, smouldering, non-secretory myeloma and Plasma cell leukaemia are variants 
of plasma cell myeloma. 
Multiple myeloma is characterised by the accumulation of clonal plasma cells in the bone marrow (BM) 
and accounts for 10% of all haematological malignancies. 
The proposed therapeutic indication “SARCLISA is indicated, in combination with pomalidomide and 
dexamethasone, for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma 
(MM) who have received at least two prior therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor 
(PI) and who have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy” falls within the scope of the 
designated orphan condition “treatment of plasma cell myeloma”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
On 26 March 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sarclisa, 
intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma The medical plausibility was confirmed by the positive 
assessment of the benefit-risk balance  by the CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
At the time of this review MM is presented to remain seriously debilitating and life-threatening disease 
with a median OS for patients with MM ranging from 2 to more than 10 years. The most frequent 
causes of death being disease progression, infection, and renal failure. Clinical complications of 
progressive MM include recurrent infections, cytopenias, renal failure, hyperviscosity syndrome, 
hypercalcemia, bone pain, and pathologic fractures.  
The COMP concluded that the condition remains chronically debilitating in particular due to the 
development of hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with 
a relevantly reduced life expectancy.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMAOD0000019553  
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor proposes a prevalence estimate between 1.6 and 3.0 in 10,000 and that it hasn’t changed 
much since 2014 when they obtained their initial orphan designation.  
The range is derived from partial prevalence calculations for 5 and 10yr prevalence’s. The data used is 
obtained from the Haematological Malignancy Research Network (HMRN, York, UK). No other sources 
have been consulted. The disease duration has not been discussed. Only a reference being made to 
Orphanet which is not a primary source of epidemiological data.  
ECIS 2018 provides updated incidence numbers, which should be taken into consideration without age 
standardisation. Disease duration may have changed since 2014 and thus needs to be addressed in 
more detail. The sponsor was invited to provide a revised prevalence calculation by taking into 
consideration additional epidemiological sources using crude incidence for the estimation. This remains 
an outstanding issue.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
There are medicinal products authorised in the EU for the treatment of the condition. Central 
marketing authorisations include elotuzumab, doxorubicin, interferon-α2b, bortezomib, lenalidomide, 
thalidomide, pomalidomide, panobinostat, carfilzomib, daratumumab, ixazomib, and dexamethasone. 
There are also products authorised at the national level including carmustine, cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, epirubicin, melphalan, and vincristine. 
There are ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up guidelines from 
2017 (Ann Oncol (2017) 28 (suppl 4): iv52–iv61). The ESMO guideline distinguishes elderly patients 
regarding the non-transplant setting and more fit patients in the transplant setting ASCT. Treatments 
are discussed by the sponsor regarding front line treatment, consolidation, maintenance and 
relapsed/refractory disease. 
Significant benefit 
Isatuximab (IPd) is a monoclonal antibody against CD38., which is a cell surface antigen expressed in 
haematological malignancies from B-lymphocyte, T-lymphocyte and myeloid origin.  
The proposed indication is: “SARCLISA is indicated, in combination with pomalidomide and 
dexamethasone, for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma (MM) who have received at least 
two prior therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor (PI).” 
The Scientific Advice Working Party was consulted five times by the Sponsor. However, no protocol 
assistance on how to show significant benefit was requested by the Sponsor. 
The sponsor is claiming that their product offers a clinically relevant advantage in the treatment of 
heavily pre-treated (at least two prior therapies) multiple myeloma patients who have relapsed or are 
refractory to both lenalidomide and proteasome inhibitor. To support this claim, data from their pivotal 
phase III study ICARIA has been submitted which was “a Phase III randomised, open-label, 
multicentre study comparing isatuximab (SAR650984) in combination with pomalidomide and low-dose 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMAOD0000019553  
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
 
dexamethasone versus pomalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone in patients with refractory or 
relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma”. 
All 307 randomized patients (154 in the isatuximab + pomalidomide + low-dose dexamethasone 
(IPd)_ arm vs. 153 in the pomalidomide + low-dose dexamethasone (Pd) arm) were included in the 
intent-to-treat (ITT) population, which was the primary population for all efficacy parameters. 
Prior anti-cancer therapy 
The study population was heavily pre-treated; all patients had received at least 2 prior lines of 
treatment including prior lenalidomide and PI. The median number of prior lines was 3 (range 2 to 11), 
with 34.9% of patients having received 4 or more prior lines of treatment. The number of prior lines 
and class of therapies were well-balanced between the treatment arms.  
All patients received lenalidomide and a PI; 92.5% were refractory to lenalidomide, 75.9% to an PI, 
and 72.6% to both. Nearly all patients (98.0%) were refractory to their last regimen and all patients 
(100%) were considered relapsed and refractory. Over half of patients (56.4%) had received a prior 
stem cell transplant, and 16.0% had received a double stem cell transplant. 
Subsequent anti-myeloma treatment 
A substantial part of the study population received additional systemic therapy post-study: 39% of 
patients in the IPd arm and 54% of patients in the Pd arm. Daratumumab was administered in 6 
patients (4%) of the IPd arm vs. 45 (29%) of patients in the Pd arm. 
The pivotal study showed a statistically significant improvement in IRC (independent review committee) judged 
PFS (progression free survival) with addition of isatuximab to Pd. The HR (hazard ratio) was 0.596 
(95% Confidence Interval 0.436, 0.814; p<0.001), and median PFS increased by 5.06 months (11.53 
IPd vs. 6.47 months for Pd). A total of 162 PFS events was reported at the time of data cut-off, similar 
to the number of PFS events defined in the study protocol. The observed treatment effect (HR 0.596) 
is consistent with the protocol-specified hypothesis on PFS (HR 0.6), although both treatment arms 
performed better than anticipated (predicted median PFS was 6.67 vs. 4 months for IPd and Pd, 
respectively). This  can possibly be ascribed to differences in patient population between trials (the 
ICARIA trial patients’ population received numerically fewer prior treatments, had fewer patients with 
baseline ECOG PS ≥2, and received less thalidomide compared to patients in the pomalidomide 
registration study MM 003), as well as better management of pomalidomide toxicity. The CHMP 
concluded that the clinical benefit of adding isatuximab to pomalidomide and dexamethasone is 
demonstrated in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma patients who have received at least two 
prior therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor. 
Alternative treatment options 
The ESMO guideline outlines for relapsed/refractory MM that the choice of therapy in this setting 
depends on several parameters such as age, performance status, comorbidities, the type, efficacy and 
tolerance of the previous treatment, the number of prior treatment lines, the available remaining 
treatment options, the interval since the last therapy and the type of relapse (table 1). 
Table 1: Recommended Treatment Options for Patients with Multiple Myeloma: ESMO Treatment 
Guidelines 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMAOD0000019553  
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMAOD0000019553  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking into consideration the ESMO guideline and the authorisation status of medicinal products in the 
target patient population the therapeutic indication is defining, it was considered that the significant 
benefit would need to be established versus: 
1.  Daratumumab (single agent or combinations). 
2.  Pomalidomide in combination with dexamethasone (as a backbone) with either 
cyclophosphamide or izaxomib or bortezomib, daratumumab or elotuzumab. 
The data submitted by the sponsor would indicate that there could be a therapeutic equivalence as the 
only comparator group considered was pomalidomide+dexamethasone as a backbone + placebo. The 
clinically relevant advantage and/or major contribution to patient care needs to be further clarified 
versus the other triplets or daratumumab monotherapy or daratumumab in combinations as 
recommended in the current ESMO guidelines algorithm highlighted in Figure 2. The sponsor should 
further elaborate on what the clinically relevant advantage is using their product in the target patient 
population described in the proposed indication as opposed to other approved alternatives 
The COMP should therefore request that the sponsor further elaborate the basis of their claim of 
significant benefit within the context of their proposed indication. 
4.  COMP list of issues 
Prevalence: 
The sponsor should provide a more current prevalence calculation as the assumptions provided do not 
appear to represent the impact of more recently authorised products have had on survival. In addition, 
there are recent sources of data which would offer a better understanding of the current situation such 
as the European Cancer Institute Registry (ECIS). 
Significant benefit: 
The current clinical data submitted by the sponsor does not establish the clinically relevant advantage 
versus all products and regimes authorized for use in the target patient population. The sponsor should 
further elaborate on the significant benefit with the clinical data they have with the product in the 
target population. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMAOD0000019553  
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
 
