EMA/613753/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005605 
Scemblix (asciminib) 
An overview of Scemblix and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Scemblix and what is it used for? 
Scemblix is a cancer medicine. It is used to treat chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), a cancer of the 
white blood cells, in the ‘chronic’ phase (this is when the condition is developing slowly and the patient 
has few or no symptoms). The medicine can be used in adult patients whose cancer is 
‘Philadelphia-chromosome positive’ (Ph+). Ph+ means that two of the patient’s chromosomes have 
rearranged themselves and formed a special chromosome called the Philadelphia chromosome. This 
chromosome produces an enzyme, BCR::ABL1 kinase, that leads to the development of leukaemia.  
Scemblix is used in patients who have already been treated with two or more cancer medicines called 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors.  
CML is rare, and Scemblix was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
24 March 2020. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/documents/orphan-designation/eu/3/20/2261-public-summary-opinion-
orphan-designation-asciminib-treatment-chronic-myeloid-leukaemia_en.pdf  
Scemblix contains the active substance asciminib. 
How is Scemblix used? 
Scemblix can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started by a doctor who is 
experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of leukaemia.  
The medicine is available as tablets to be taken by mouth twice a day. The doctor may interrupt 
treatment and reduce the dose if certain side effects occur. Treatment may be stopped if a patient 
cannot tolerate treatment with the reduced dose.  
For more information about using Scemblix, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Scemblix work? 
The active substance in Scemblix, asciminib, is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), meaning that it blocks 
enzymes known as tyrosine kinases. In Ph+ CML, the body produces large numbers of abnormal white 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
blood cells. Scemblix specifically blocks the action of the BCR::ABL1 tyrosine kinase that is produced 
by these cells, and this stops their division and growth. 
What benefits of Scemblix have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Scemblix were evaluated in a main study in 233 adults with Ph+ CML in the chronic 
phase who were previously treated with two or more tyrosine kinase inhibitors. In this study, Scemblix 
was more effective than bosutinib (another tyrosine kinase inhibitor): after 24 weeks of treatment, 
25% (40 out of 157) of patients given Scemblix had a major molecular response (meaning that the 
number of cells with the BCR::ABL1 gene had decreased to 1,000 times below the standardised 
baseline), compared with 13% (10 out of 76) of patients given bosutinib. After 96 weeks of treatment, 
38% (59 out of 157) of patients given Scemblix and 16% (12 out of 76) of patients given bosutinib 
had a major molecular response. 
What are the risks associated with Scemblix? 
The most common side effects with Scemblix (which may affect more than 2 in 10 people) are pain in 
the muscles, joints and bones, upper respiratory tract (nose and throat) infections, thrombocytopenia 
(low levels of blood platelets), tiredness, headache, increased levels of pancreatic enzymes, abdominal 
pain, diarrhoea and nausea (feeling sick).  
The most common serious side effects with Scemblix (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are 
pleural effusion (fluid around the lungs), lower respiratory tract infections (infections of the lungs, such 
as bronchitis or pneumonia), thrombocytopenia, fever, pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), 
chest pain (not related to the heart) and vomiting.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Scemblix, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Scemblix authorised in the EU? 
Scemblix has been shown to be more effective than another tyrosine kinase inhibitor at reducing the 
number of cells with the BCR::ABL1 gene in patients who had already received at least two previous 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors. In terms of safety, the side effects with Scemblix are similar to those seen 
with this class of medicines and are considered manageable. The European Medicines Agency therefore 
decided that the benefits of Scemblix are greater than its risks and that it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Scemblix? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Scemblix have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Scemblix are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Scemblix are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Scemblix 
Scemblix received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 August 2022.  
Further information on Scemblix can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Scemblix  
Scemblix (asciminib)  
EMA/613753/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 08-2022. 
Scemblix (asciminib)  
EMA/613753/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
