EMA/668463/2014  
EMEA/H/C/002548 
EPAR summary for the public 
Scenesse 
afamelanotide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Scenesse. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Scenesse. 
For practical information about using Scenesse, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Scenesse and what is it used for? 
Scenesse is an implant used to treat patients with erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP), a rare disease 
that causes intolerance to light.  
In patients with EPP, exposure to light can lead to symptoms such as pain and swelling of the skin, 
which prevent patients from being able to spend time outdoors or in places with bright light. Scenesse 
is used to help prevent or reduce these symptoms so that these patients can lead more normal lives.  
Because the number of patients with EPP is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and Scenesse was 
designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 8 May 2008. 
Scenesse contains the active substance afamelanotide. 
How is Scenesse used? 
Scenesse is only prescribed by specialist doctors in recognised centres for treating EPP and should only 
be used by doctors who have been properly trained. 
One Scenesse implant is injected under the patient’s skin once every 2 months, before and during 
periods of high sunlight exposure, e.g. from spring to autumn. The number of implants per year 
depends on how much protection from the sun is needed. Three implants per year are recommended; 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the maximum number is 4. Patients should be observed for allergic reactions for 30 minutes after the 
injection of each implant. 
For more information on how to use Scenesse, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of 
the EPAR). 
How does Scenesse work? 
The active substance in Scenesse, afamelanotide, is similar to a hormone in the body known as alpha-
melanocyte stimulating hormone, which stimulates the production of a brown-black pigment in the 
skin. This pigment, known as eumelanin, is produced during exposure to sunlight to block the 
penetration of light into cells.  
Patients with EPP have high levels of a substance called protoporphyrin IX in the body. 
Protoporphyrin IX is phototoxic and, when exposed to light, causes the painful reactions seen with this 
condition. By stimulating the production of eumelanin in the skin, Scenesse reduces the penetration of 
light through the skin, thus helping to prevent the painful reactions. 
What benefits of Scenesse have been shown in studies? 
Scenesse has been shown in a study to lead to an increase in the amount of time patients can spend in 
sunlight. In the study, involving 93 patients with EPP, patients were treated with either Scenesse or a 
placebo (a dummy treatment) over a six-month period. Daily records of exposure to sunlight between 
10 am and 6 pm showed that patients treated with Scenesse spent on average 116 hours in direct 
sunlight without experiencing pain during the six-month period compared with 61 hours for patients 
treated with placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Scenesse? 
The most common side effects seen in studies with Scenesse were nausea (feeling sick), headache and 
reactions at the implant site (such as discoloration, pain and redness). These affected around 1 in 5 
patients and were generally mild in severity.  
Scenesse must not be used in patients with reduced liver or kidney function. For the full list of all side 
effects and restrictions with Scenesse, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Scenesse approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Scenesse’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. The 
CHMP noted that Scenesse led to an increase in the amount of time patients could spend in direct 
sunlight without experiencing pain. Although the additional time spent in sunlight was small, the 
Committee considered the possible improvements in quality of life, the unmet medical need in patients 
with EPP, and the mild side effects seen during short-term treatment with the medicine in deciding to 
recommend approval for Scenesse in the EU. The Committee also consulted individual patients and 
experts on their experience with Scenesse. 
Scenesse has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about the benefits of Scenesse, in part due to the rarity of the 
disease. Every year, the European Medicines Agency will review any new information that becomes 
available and this summary will be updated as necessary. 
Scenesse  
EMA/668463/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What information is still awaited for Scenesse? 
Since Scenesse has been approved under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Scenesse will provide longer-tem data on the benefits and safety of the medicine from an EU registry 
of patients taking the medicine.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Scenesse? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Scenesse is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Scenesse, including information on the appropriate precautions to be followed 
by healthcare professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Scenesse will ensure that doctors receive educational material 
and are trained in how to use the medicine. Doctors will also be given information on the EU registry. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Scenesse 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Scenesse on 22 December 2014.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Scenesse can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Scenesse, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Scenesse can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designation. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2014. 
Scenesse  
EMA/668463/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
