EMA/521289/2014  
EMEA/H/C/001045 
EPAR summary for the public 
Scintimun 
besilesomab  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Scintimun. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Scintimun. 
What is Scintimun? 
Scintimun is a kit for the preparation of a radioactive solution for injection. It contains the active 
substance besilesomab. 
What is Scintimun used for? 
Scintimun is not used on its own, but must be radiolabelled before use. Radiolabelling is a technique 
where a substance is labelled with a radioactive compound. Scintimun is radiolabelled by mixing it with 
a solution of radioactive technetium (99mTc). 
Scintimun is for diagnostic use only. It is used to locate areas of infection or inflammation in adults 
with suspected osteomyelitis (bone infection) in the limbs, in combination with other appropriate 
imaging methods. 
Scintimun should not be used to diagnose diabetic foot infection (infection that occurs in the feet of 
patients with diabetes). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How is Scintimun used? 
Scintimun should only be used in hospitals with a nuclear medicine department and should only be 
handled by authorised staff. 
A radioactive Scintimun solution is made by mixing the powder and solvent provided in the kit and 
then radiolabelling it with technetium (99mTc). The solution is given to the patient as one injection into 
a vein. The amount of besilesomab injected varies between 0.25 to 1 mg, depending on how much 
radioactivity is required.  
Three to six hours after the injection, the doctor takes a scan of the limbs to locate the areas in the 
bones affected by osteomyelitis. 
How does Scintimun work? 
The active substance in Scintimun, besilesomab, is a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal antibody is an 
antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure 
(called an antigen) that is found in the body. Besilesomab has been designed to attach to an antigen 
called NCA-95, which is found on the surface of granulocytes, a type of white blood cell involved in 
inflammation and fighting infection. 
When Scintimun is radiolabelled, the radioactive compound technetium (99mTc) becomes attached to 
besilesomab. When the radiolabelled medicine is injected into the patient, the monoclonal antibody 
carries the radioactivity to the target antigen on the granulocytes. As large numbers of granulocytes 
gather at the site of an infection, the radioactivity will accumulate in areas affected by osteomyelitis, 
where it can be detected by scans. The images will show where besilesomab has accumulated, which 
the doctor will use to locate the areas of infection or inflammation. 
How has Scintimun been studied? 
In one main study in 130 patients who had or were suspected to have osteomyelitis in their limbs, 
radiolabelled Scintimun was compared with a standard diagnostic technique using the patients’ own 
white blood cells that were radiolabelled before being injected back into the patient. Patients limbs 
were then scanned and the images obtained using both techniques were compared. The main measure 
of effectiveness for Scintimun was based on how much the assessment of the images obtained with 
Scintimun agreed with that obtained with the radiolabelled white blood cells. 
What benefit has Scintimun shown during the studies? 
Scintimun produced comparable results to the radiolabelled white blood cells when used to diagnose 
and locate osteomyelitis in limbs. The agreement rate was 83%. 
What is the risk associated with Scintimun? 
The most common side effect with Scintimun (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is the production of 
anti-mouse antibodies. For the full list of all side effects reported with Scintimun, see the package 
leaflet. Scintimun must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to besilesomab, to 
other mouse antibodies or to any of the other ingredients. Scintimun must not be used in patients who 
have tested positive for human anti-mouse antibody (HAMA) and must not be used in pregnant 
women. As for all radioactive substances used in medicine, patients should be exposed to the lowest 
possible dose of Scintimun. 
Scintimun  
EMA/521289/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why has Scintimun been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Scintimun’s benefits are greater than its risks. The Committee recommended 
that Scintimun be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Scintimun? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Scintimun is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Scintimun, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition the company that makes Scintimun will make sure that all doctors who are expected to use 
it are provided with a letter explaining the risks associated with the medicine. 
Other information about Scintimun 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Scintimun on 11 January 2010. 
The full EPAR for Scintimun can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Scintimun, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2014. 
Scintimun  
EMA/521289/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
