European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/743339/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Scintimun 
International Nonproprietary Name: besilesomab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001045 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 9 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 15 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 42 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 45 
Page 2 of 48  
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  CIS  bio  international  submitted  on  02  July  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Scintimun,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
•  Scintigraphic imaging for the detection or investigation of sites of inflammation and /or infection 
in the following cases: 
−  detection of chronic peripheral osteomyelitis 
−  investigation of infected diabetic foot 
−  detection of infected joint prosthesis 
−  investigation of endocarditis when other imaging modalities are unconclusive 
−  investigation of fever of unknown origin when other imaging modalities are unconclusive 
•  Scintigraphic imaging of bone marrow involvement (detection and extent of carcinoma metastasis, 
as cold spots). 
Licensing status: 
Scintimun has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Czech Republic, Hungary and Sweden on  
24 November 1993, 22 July 1993 and 22 April 1994, respectively. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  
Co-Rapporteur: Concepción Prieto Yerro 
Ian Hudson 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 02 July 2008. 
The procedure started on 23 July 2008.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 9 October 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 17 
October 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  17-20  November  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 November 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 23 April 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 8 June 2009. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22-25  June  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  Written explanations were provided by the Applicant on 24 August 2009. 
• 
Experts  of  the  Scientific  Advisory  Group  on  Diagnostics  (SAG-D)  were  convened  on  7 
September 2009 to address questions raised by the CHMP. 
During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 September 2009, outstanding issues were addressed by the 
applicant in an oral explanation. 
• 
Page 3 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
During  the  meeting  on  19-22  October  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation for Scintimun on 22 October 2009. The applicant provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  16 
October 2009. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Inflammatory diseases are associated with non-specific and specific inflammatory markers.  In clinical 
practice,  confirmation  of  diagnosis  of  infections  relies  on  a  combination  of  clinical  features, 
microbiological tests and imaging techniques.   
In  case  of  suspected  infectious  and  non-infectious  inflammatory  lesions,  timely  identification  and 
localisation of pathology might be of critical importance in the  appropriate management  of patients. 
CT,  MRI  and  ultrasound  scans  are  usually  relied  upon  for  standard  imaging  tests  but  have  their 
limitations as they provide morphological and anatomical information but do not inform the treating 
clinician on the nature of pathology. In addition, knowledge on potential localisation of the pathology 
is  required  in  order  to  effectively  use  these  techniques.  Therefore,  there  is  a  need  for  a  method  to 
identify  clustering  of  neutrophils  to  the  site  of  infection  or  inflammation  where  the  nature  of  the 
pathology requires further identification or where there are no apparent clinical features to suggest the 
location of the disease.  
The gold standard of labelling of neutrophils has been ex-vivo labelling using indium (111In) oxinate.  
This technique has some drawbacks as it carries various risks: misadministration to the wrong patient, 
contamination  of  the  blood  by  environmental  substances/organisms,  and  contamination  of  workers 
during  radiolabelling.  There  are  also  other  radiopharmaceuticals  which  have  been  used  to  detect 
infection/inflammation  such  as  gallium  (67Ga)  citrate,  technetium  (99mTc)  human  immunoglobulin, 
technetium (99mTc) exametazime labelled leucocytes, or fludeoxyglucose (18F). Scintimun (technetium 
(99mTc)  besilesomab)  has  the  theoretical  advantage  of  labelling  neutrophils  specifically  in  vivo.  A 
similar product, an anti-NCA90 antibody (sulesomab; LeukoScan) is currently approved in Europe for 
“determining  the  location  and  extent  of  infection/inflammation  in  patients  with  suspected 
osteomyelitis, including patients with diabetic foot ulcers”. 
Besilesomab is a mouse monoclonal antibody of IgG1 kappa isotype that binds to antigenic structures 
shared by a surface glycoprotein NCA-95 (non specific cross-reacting antigen 95) of granulocytes and 
the tumour marker, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). In infection and inflammation, it is postulated 
that  the  accumulation  of  radiolabelled  antibody  bound  to  neutrophils  provides  ‘hot  spots’  upon 
scintigraphic imaging.  
This  medicinal  product  is  for  diagnostic  use  only.  This  medicinal  product  is  for  use  in  designated 
nuclear medicine facilities only, and should only be handled by authorised personnel. 
The indications initially proposed by the applicant were the following: 
•  Scintigraphic imaging for the detection or investigation of sites of inflammation and /or infection 
in the following cases: 
−  detection of chronic peripheral osteomyelitis 
−  investigation of infected diabetic foot 
−  detection of infected joint prosthesis 
−  investigation of endocarditis when other imaging modalities are unconclusive 
−  investigation of fever of unknown origin when other imaging modalities are unconclusive 
•  Scintigraphic imaging of bone marrow involvement (detection and extent of carcinoma metastasis, 
as cold spots). 
Page 4 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The current recommended proposed indication is the following: 
•  This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. Scintigraphic imaging, in conjunction with other 
appropriate imaging modalities, for determining the location of inflammation/infection in 
peripheral bone in adults with suspected osteomyelitis. Scintimun should not be used for the 
diagnosis of diabetic foot infection.  
The  recommended  activity  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  should  be  between  400 MBq  and 
800 MBq.  This corresponds to the administration of 0.25 to 1 mg of besilesomab. For repeated use, 
see SPC section 4.4. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The drug substance besilesomab is a murine monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to NCA-95 
(non  specific  cross-reacting  antigen 95),  an  epitope  expressed  at  the  cell  membrane  of  granulocytes 
and granulocyte precursors. 
Besilesomab  is  produced  by  conventional  hybridoma  technology  using  a  murine  myeloma  cell  line 
X63Ag8.653 and spleen cells from Balb/c mice previously immunised with CEA antigen (from human 
liver metastasis). 
A two-tiered cell banking system of Master Cell bank (MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB) is used 
for the manufacture of the drug substance. 
Fermentation  and  purification  consist  of  a  13-step  process.  The  fermentation  process  is  operated  by 
continuous  perfusion  to  obtain  a  cell-free  culture  harvest  which  is  then  purified  by  a  series  of 
chromatography steps, virus inactivation and filtration steps and ultrafiltration/diafiltration steps. 
Manufacture of the drug product includes partial reduction of besilesomab to allow covalent binding 
of  the  radiolabel,  filtration  steps,  formulation  steps,  freeze-drying  of  the  formulated  drug  substance 
and filling into vial. The solvent to be used with the formulated drug substance is prepared and filled 
in a separate vial. 
Scintimun is presented as a kit for radiopharmaceutical preparation and is administered by intravenous 
injection following reconstitution with a saline solution of technetium 99m (99mTc). 
Drug Substance  
Nomenclature 
INN Name: 
Compendial Name: 
Chemical name: 
Laboratory Code Name: 
CAS Registry Number: 
Other Names: 
besilesomab 
not applicable 
monoclonal antibody BW 250/183 
MAb BW 250/183 
537694-98-7 
not applicable 
Description of the drug substance 
Besilesomab  is  a  murine  IgG1  kappa  monoclonal  antibody  of  150  kDa.  It  binds  to  NCA-95  (non 
specific  cross-reacting  antigen 95),  an  epitope  expressed  at  the  cell  membrane  of  granulocytes  and 
granulocyte precursors. Besilesomab is glycosylated. 
Manufacture 
Cell  banking,  fermentation  and  harvesting,  purification,  Quality Control  testing  and  batch  release  of 
besilesomab drug substance take place at GLYCOTOPE Biotechnology GmbH, Czerny-Ring 22; D-
Page 5 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
69115, Heidelberg, Germany. This site is EU-GMP compliant and a valid manufacturing authorisation 
was provided. 
Development genetics 
Besilesomab  is  produced  by  conventional  hybridoma  technology.  Immune  spleen  cells  and  X63Ag 
8.653 myeloma cells were mixed and the mixture was incubated in a medium containing foetal bovine 
serum. Following pre-selection of hybridoma, cloning and subcloning steps were performed to select 
one high-producing clone (MAb BW 250/183). 
Cell bank system 
A  two-tiered  cell  banking  system  of  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB)  and  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB)  was 
developed and maintained in accordance to cGMP and ICH guidelines. 
Seed cells corresponding to the high-producing clone were adapted to growth in a medium containing 
foetal bovine serum, leading to the establishment of the original MCB and WCB. Procedures followed 
for the preparation of MCB and WCB were appropriately described. An extensive range of tests was 
performed for their characterisation, in accordance with ICH guidelines, including identity, viability, 
stability, presence of adventitious agents. 
Fermentation process  
Pre-culture is initiated from a single WCB vial and consists of the expansion in T-flasks followed by 
cultivation  in  spinner  bottles.  Cells  are  then  transferred  into  a  production  bioreactor  containing  a 
chemically-defined medium. The fermentation is operated by continuous perfusion. 
The cell culture harvest is collected from the bioreactor and cells and particles are removed by micro-
filtration. 
Purification process  
The downstream process encompasses chromatography steps, virus treatment steps and 
ultrafiltration/diafiltration steps. 
The  final  formulation  of  the  purified  besilesomab  bulk  is  a  phosphate  buffered  saline  solution 
containing sorbitol as a stabilising agent. The bulk solution is stored frozen at less than -20 °C. 
Manufacturing process development and process validation 
A  comprehensive  process  manufacturing  history  was  provided,  showing  the  different  changes 
introduced, and the corresponding batches involved, as well as the use of these batches. Comparability 
studies were conducted to support the introduction of the manufacturing changes.  
The  commercial  manufacturing  process  was  validated  in  order  to  demonstrate  that  the  process 
consistently  maintains  process  parameters  within  specified  ranges  and  meets  pre-established 
acceptance  criteria  for  performance  indicators.  Process  validation  studies  included  the  cell  culture 
process, the purification process, resin re-use studies for chromatography steps, cleaning procedures. 
The history of the product which has been manufactured commercially since 1993 was relevant to the 
overall validation of the manufacturing process. 
Characterisation 
A) Elucidation of structure and other characteristics: 
A series of tests was performed to confirm the primary structure, molecular weight and higher order 
structure of the antibody. The carbohydrate structure was adequately characterised. Characterisation of 
biological activity of besilesomab was adequate. 
B) Impurities: 
Potential process-related impurities including cell substrate derived impurities (host cell proteins, host 
cell  DNA),  media  components  and  downstream-derived  impurities  are  adequately  addressed  and 
proposed specifications justified. 
Product-related substances correspond to aggregates and fragments. 
Page 6 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specifications 
The drug substance release specifications, including tests for identity, impurities, potency, quantity 
and general attributes, are acceptable and well justified. 
Stability 
The design of the stability program, including the testing intervals and temperature storage conditions, 
are  in  accordance  with  current  guidelines.  The  tests  chosen  are  a  subset  of  tests  from  the  release 
specifications selected for stability-indicating properties.  
The stability data provided were within the specifications and support the proposed shelf life for the 
drug substance. 
Drug Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Scintimun is presented as a kit for radiopharmaceutical preparation intended for intravenous injection 
following  reconstitution  with  a  saline  solution  of  technetium-99m  (99mTc),  which  corresponds  to  the 
radiolabelling of besilesomab. Scintimun is intended to be administered once and one kit can be used 
for several patients. 
This kit is composed of one or two sets of two multidose vials: 
-  Vial  “Scintimun”  (10  ml,  colourless,  type I  glass  vial,  closed  with  chlorobutyl  rubber  stopper  and 
aluminium  crimped  capsule  (green))  containing  besilesomab  drug  product:  lyophilised  powder  in 
which the drug substance (1 mg/vial) is formulated with sodium dihydrogen phosphate and disodium 
hydrogen phosphate (buffer) and sorbitol (stabiliser). 
-  Vial  “Solvent  for  Scintimun”  (6  ml,  colourless,  type I  glass  vial,  closed  with  chlorobutyl  rubber 
stopper  and  aluminium  crimped  capsule  (yellow)) corresponding  to  a  lyophilised  powder  containing 
propane  tetraphosphonic  acid  (PTP)  (tranchelator  agent),  tin  (II)  chloride  (or  stannous  chloride) 
(reducing agent), sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid (pH adjustment).  
Stannous chloride is commonly used with technetium (99mTc) radiopharmaceuticals for the reduction of 
pertechnetate (99mTcO4-) into technetium (99mTc).  
Stannous chloride is known to interact with the disulphide bridges of an antibody; therefore, in order 
to prevent this, stannous chloride is chelated to 1.1.3.3 –propane tetraphosphonic acid, tetrasodium salt  
(PTP) and conditioned in a separate vial. 
PTP is the only non compendial excipient used in Scintimun. Its synthesis, characterisation, analysis 
and  specifications  were  well  documented;  data  provided  to  support  the  use  of  PTP  were  considered 
acceptable. 
The formulation of Scintimun has not changed since the first clinical studies performed by Behring. 
Adventitious Agents 
The only raw material of animal or human origin used for the manufacture of Scintimun is foetal calf 
serum  (FCS)  for  the  cryopreservation  of  the  cell  banks  manufactured  in  1998-2000.  Ph.  Eur.  TSE 
certificates  of  suitability  for  FCS  were  provided.  Safety  concerning  TSE  is  considered  sufficiently 
assured. 
Control  of  potential  contamination  by  other  non-viral  adventitious  agents  (mycoplasma,  bioburden, 
endotoxins) was considered adequate. 
Extensive  screening  for  viruses  was  performed.  Raw  material  controls  minimise  the  risk  of  viral 
contamination,  and  clearance  studies  provide  assurance  that  any  potential  virus  will  be  removed  or 
inactivated by the manufacturing process.  
Types  A  and  C  endogenous  retroviruses  particles  were  detected  in  the  MCB.  However,  no  ERV 
particles  were  detected  in  bulk  fermentation  harvests  from  5  validation  batches  with  a  threshold  of 
detection of 1.4 x 105 VLP/ml. Negative results on the XC plaque assay and the S+L- Focus assay (on 
Page 7 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the MCB) demonstrate that they are not replication competent retroviruses. Small scale validation of 
the  capacity  of  the  process  to  remove  or  inactivate  these  particles  has  been  carried  out  using  four 
model viruses. 
Validation studies demonstrated acceptable levels of virus reduction by the manufacturing process. 
Considering that the validation is most likely significantly underestimating the potential to inactivate 
these  particles,  and  they have  been  shown  to  be  replication  incompetent,  then  the  detection of  these 
particles in the cell bank is not considered to result in a safety concern. 
Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacture  and  quality  control  of  the  drug  product  (vial  “Scintimun”  and  vial  “Solvent  for 
Scintimun”) are performed at a manufacturing site compliant with EU-GMP. 
CIS bio international, BP 32, 91192 Gif sur Yvette cedex, France, is responsible for EU batch release 
of the drug product. 
The manufacture of vial “Scintimun” comprises the following steps: 
The  frozen  formulated  bulk  drug  substance  is  thawed,  pooled,  mixed,  filtered  and  concentrated  and 
purified.  The  antibody  solution  is  then  treated  by  a  reducing  agent  whose  excess  is  removed  by 
ultrafiltration. This solution is then filtered and sorbitol is added. Following adjustment of besilesomab 
concentration, the antibody solution is sterile filtered and aseptically filled into vials. The solution is 
then freeze-dried. The flip-off caps are crimped onto the stoppered vials which are then labelled. 
The  manufacture  of  vial  “Solvent  for  Scintimun”  starts  with  the  preparation  of  an  oxygen-free  PTP 
solution, addition of a stannous chloride dihydrate solution, followed by pH and volume  adjustment 
steps. The formulated solution is then sterile filtered and filled into vials. The solution is then freeze-
dried. The flip-off caps are crimped onto the stoppered vials which are then labelled. 
The proposed critical (in-process control) and non-critical (monitoring) parameters sufficiently control 
the  manufacturing  process.  In  particular,  reduction  of  the  antibody  as  well  as  integrity  and 
immunoreactivity  of  drug  product  and  radioactivity  of  radiolabelled  product  in  use  are  adequately 
controlled. 
Process validation provided a documented, thorough understanding of the ability of the manufacturing 
process to consistently and reliably meet predetermined product specifications and quality attributes. 
Adequate  data  were  provided  to  support  the  changes  to  the  drug  product  manufacturing  process 
implemented during development. 
Product specifications  
The  specifications  for  Scintimun  include  control  for  each  component  of  the  drug  product,  i.e.  vial 
“Scintimun”  and  vial  “Solvent  for  Scintimun”,  and  control  of  the  reconstituted  and  radiolabelled 
product. Adequate tests are in place and the proposed specification limits are acceptable. 
Stability of the product 
Real-time and accelerated stability studies were initiated in accordance with ICH guidelines and per 
protocol to monitor the time-temperature stability of cGMP lots of drug product. On the basis of the 
data  provided,  the  approvable  shelf  life  for  the  drug  product  is  two  years  at  2-8°C  and  3  hours  not 
above 25°C after radiolabelling. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The generation of the original cell line, from the expression construct to the selection process was well 
described. Cell banks have been established and adequately characterised. 
The drug substance manufacturing process is well defined and adequately controlled, with appropriate 
in-process controls and acceptance criteria in place. The manufacturing process has been adequately 
Page 8 of 48  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
validated using relevant parameters and good consistency has been shown. Reprocessing for the drug 
substance  manufacturing  process  was  considered  acceptable  provided  that  only  one  round  of  re-
processing  per  batch  is  permitted  and  that  in  the  event  of  a  failure  in  sterility,  the  route  cause  is 
investigated prior to batch release. 
Comparability studies to support the introduction of several changes in the manufacturing process of 
the drug substance in 1999 and 2007 were considered adequate and the results satisfactory. 
The  new  pivotal  Phase  III  study,  conducted  to  address  the  major  clinical  objections  raised  with  the 
initial marketing authorisation application, used “1999 material” and not “2007 product”. Although no 
specific extra validation was performed due to these changes (except virus removal validation), batch 
release results remain within specification and after considering the nature of the process changes, this 
was  deemed  sufficient  to  demonstrate  comparability  of  commercial  product  to  that  used  in  the  new 
clinical study. The stability data on drug substance from the 1999 and 2007 processes indicate that the 
proposed shelf life for the drug substance is acceptable. 
In relation to the drug product, the minor changes to the manufacturing process since the initial Phase 
III study are described and well supported by data. 
Analytical  methods  are  described  and  acceptable.  For  this  imaging  reagent,  an  assay  measuring 
percentage  of  immunoreactivity  is  described.  This  determines  the  proportion  of  besilesomab  which 
binds  to  “antigen  containing  material”  (ACM)  derived  from  CaCo2  human  colon  tumour  cells 
displaying the NCA95 and CEA epitopes, under defined conditions. Although the assay is acceptably 
defined and validated, the applicant was asked to justify the use of human tumour cells in a binding 
assay  where  the  indication  is  binding  to  human  granulocytes.  This  major  objection  was  adequately 
addressed  by  demonstrating  that  the  antibody  crossreacts  to  ACM  as  well  as  granulocytes.  The 
applicant  adequately  justified  why  the  ACM  antigen  was  chosen  instead  of  human  granulocytes, 
because with the technology available at the time of development, it would not have been possible to 
validate the granulocyte-detecting assay. 
The drug product specifications (vial “Scintimun” and vial “Solvent for Scintimun”) are acceptable.  
The  binding  of  the  antibody  at  the  drug  product  level  is  not  monitored  or  specified.  Although  the 
percentage of radioimmunoactivity is specified, this monitors the binding of radioactivity and does not 
directly  measure  antibody  binding.  This  format  was  justified  since  it  overcomes  a  disadvantage  of 
directly detecting immunoreactivity of radiolabelled antibody by ELISA. This disadvantage (of using 
an ELISA as an immunoreactivity assay for radiolabelled product) is that only a very small proportion 
of the monoclonal antibody is actually radiolabelled. Most remains unlabelled. Therefore, if the act of 
radiolabelling the monoclonal antibody was to damage it and reduce/eliminate its immunoreactivity, 
this  fact  would  be  hidden  because  the  cold  antibody,  which  is  present  in  a  great  excess,  would 
continue to be as immunoreactive and the detection method cannot distinguish between labelled and 
unlabelled antibody. 
The  proposed  shelf  life  of  2  years  for  the  drug  product  before  reconstitution  and  3  hours  after 
reconstitution/radiolabelling is considered acceptable. 
Viral safety and safety concerning other adventitious agents including TSE are sufficiently assured. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
 Introduction 
The  product  is  a  kit  for  radiopharmaceutical  preparation,  consisting  of  two  vials,  each  containing  a 
freeze-dried powder. The first vial contains 1 mg of the active substance, anti-granulocyte monoclonal 
antibody  (besilesomab,  BW250/183)  and  excipients  sodium  phosphate  and  sorbitol.  The  second  vial 
contains  1,1,3,3-propane  tetraphosphonic  acid,  tetrasodium  salt,  dehydrate  (PTP),  tin  (II)  chloride 
dehydrate, and sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment.  
Page 9 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The antibody is a mouse monoclonal anti-granulocyte IgG1 antibody directed against an epitope of the 
membrane protein NCA 95 (non-specific cross-reacting antigen of 95kDa) on human granulocytes and 
has  been  chemically  modified  to  allow  effective  labelling  with  the  radionuclide  technetium-99m.  In 
the second vial, the chelator  PTP couples the reduced technetium-99m-pertechnate onto the antibody.  
The non-clinical safety studies were conducted using the kits made up with decayed technetium. They 
were conducted in mice, rats and the cynomolgus monkey. The majority of the studies were conducted 
in the early 1990’s. Antibodies from different manufacturers were used for the Ames tests and a local 
tolerance  study  in  rabbits.  However,  chemical  and  biological  equivalence  studies  reported  in  the 
quality and clinical dossiers stated that the products (antibody and PTP) are chemically equivalent to 
that manufactured by previous manufacturers.   
The applicant has not requested any formal scientific advice from the EMEA. 
The non-clinical safety studies were conducted in compliance with GLP and in accordance with the 
guidance  that  at  the  time  when  the  studies  were  undertaken.  A  GLP  inspection  was  not  considered 
necessary. 
Pharmacology 
The monoclonal antibody is a mouse IgG1 antibody with a molecular weight about 150 kDa. There are 
two  identical  kappa  (κ)-  light  polypeptide  chains  (about  25  kDa  each)  and  two  identical  γ1-heavy 
polypeptide  chains  (about  50  kDa  each)  linked  together  by  disulfide  bonds.  There  is  limited 
information on the specificity of the antibody for granulocytes. The information is almost 20 years old 
and relates to an antibody manufactured by a different method from that intended for marketing. There 
is no further updated information on the specificity of the antibody. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
 In a study investigating the specificity of binding to cryo-preserved human tissues using an indirect 
alkaline  phosphatase  anti-alkaline  phosphatase  (APAAP)  technique,  the  antibody  from  hybridoma 
supernatants  showed  staining  to  cytoplasmic,  membranous  and  interstitial  areas  of  primary  colon 
carcinoma tissue, to single granulocytic cells in normal human liver and lung and to a large proportion 
of  granulocytic  cells  in  normal  human  bone  marrow  but  not  to  blood  vessels  or  connective  tissue. 
Additional tissues investigated that showed binding of the antibody to granulocytic cells were breast, 
kidney, parotid gland, pituitary, lymph nodes and spleen, as well as colonic, pancreatic, some lung and 
some breast carcinomas. A negative control using supernatants derived from a non-secretor myeloma 
cell line showed no such binding in the same tissues. The purified antibody and the prepared kit bound 
similarly  to  the  granulocytes  in  normal  bone  marrow,  lung,  liver,  spleen  and  colorectal  carcinomas. 
The prepared kit produced some additional staining in some connective tissue fibres in normal lung, 
some muscle fibres in normal colon and in liver parenchymal cells.  
Binding of the antibody to blood cells from cynomolgus monkey was also investigated. The antibody 
bound strongly to granulocytes from peripheral blood from cynomolgus monkeys and from humans. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies have been submitted. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Study No. 158-35 investigated safety pharmacology of the product (prepared kit with decayed Tc-99m 
generator)  in  anaesthetised  dogs.  Ascending  intravenous  doses  of  0.5,  1.0  and  5.0mg/animal  were 
administered  at  5  minute  intervals.  There  were  no  effects  on  cardiovascular  or  respiratory  systems 
(including  arterial  pressure,  heart  rate,  respiratory  rate,  respiratory  volume,  cardiac  output  and 
peripheral resistance), nor on haematology, coagulation or clinical chemistry parameters  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No studies have been submitted. 
Page 10 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two studies were conducted.  One was a combined dosimetry and pharmacokinetic study in rats.  The 
second  was  a  pharmacokinetic  study  in  cynomolgus  monkeys,  the  latter  using  the  kit  prepared  with 
decayed technetium.  
In the rat pharmacokinetic and dosimetry study, radioactivity was measured in a scintillation counter 
or an ionisation chamber, depending on the level of activity. An ELISA was used for measurement of 
besilesomab in the monkey pharmacokinetic study.  
Absorption 
Pharmacokinetics were evaluated in cynomolgus monkeys in Study No. 158-07 following intravenous 
administration  of  the  kit  product  with  decayed  technetium,  at  a  dose  of  0.5mg  antibody/kg.    Serum 
levels were highest at the first time point at 10 minutes, and were 14 and 15 µg/ml in the two animals, 
respectively.  The  distribution  occurred  within  20  minutes  and  the  terminal  half-life  of  the  antibody 
was 26 and 36 hours in the two animals, respectively (Table 5).  
Table 5 
Pharmacokinetics of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab in monkeys 
Study 
ID 
158-07 
Species 
Cynomolgus 
monkey 
N 
2 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
Route 
0.5 
IV 
Terminal 
t1/2 (h)* 
25.5 
35.6 
Vd 
(ml)* 
162 
156 
Cl 
(ml/min)* 
0.098 
0.068 
AUC* 
(µg.h/ml)
355 
412 
* - only two animals used; values for both are provided 
In a rat pharmacokinetic study, the technetium (99mTc) besilesomab kit was prepared, and radioactivity 
in  blood  and  tissues  as  well  as  that  excreted  in  urine  and  faeces  was  measured  after  intravenous 
administration of 2.5µg of antibody with an activity of 4 to 5 MBq. Time points were 1, 7, 17, 30 and 
48 hours after administration. At 1 hour, the highest levels of radioactivity were evident in the blood, 
followed  by  the  liver,  compact  bone,  kidney  and  small  intestine.  Elimination  from  most  organs 
appeared to be biphasic with the half-lives of the initial and terminal phases being 2-7 hours and less 
than 100 hours, respectively. The plasma half-life was 30-35 hours, which was comparable with the 
value obtained for monkeys.  
In  the  kidney  (both  sexes)  and  the  testes,  radioactivity  appeared  to  peak  at  7  hours  post  dose.  It 
remained at similar levels thereafter in the kidney but declined in the testes. This also occurred to a 
lesser  extent  in  pancreas  and  thymus  of  male  rats.  Radioactivity  levels  also  increased  in  skeletal 
muscle for both sexes (7 hours in males and 30 hours in females) and in the uterus and intestine (17 
hours after the dose). Radioactivity was not detected in mammary gland. 
Distribution 
Distribution  in  normal  animals  (dosimetry)  was  investigated  in  rats.  Most  of  the  organs  showed 
biphasic elimination with an initial half-life of 2-4h, followed by a slower phase with a half-life of 5-
6h,  the  latter  mainly  determined  by  the  half-life  of  the  labelling  nuclide  Tc-99m.  Blood  and  plasma 
values recorded were with a half life of 3-4 hours and 30 – 65 hours respectively. During the first 7 
hours after administration accumulation of radioactivity is observed in kidneys and testes and with less 
magnitude in pancreas and thymus. An increase during the first seven hours was observed in skeletal 
muscle  in  male  rats  and  thirty  hours  in  female  rats.  In  the  uterus  and  intestine  the  maximal 
accumulation was 17 hours, and no detection was observed in the mammary gland.  
A GLP compliant pharmacokinetic study (study 158-07) was carried out in cynomolgus monkeys. The 
test  compound  was  administered  IV  at  0.5  mg/kg.  Only  two  animals  we  used  during  the  studies  (2 
males). Blood samples where taken at baseline 10, 20, 30 min, 1, 3, 9, 15, 24. 48 hours, and examined 
IgG levels by ELISA. Distribution was achieved in 20 min followed by a monoexponential decrease 
with  a  terminal  t1/2  of  26-36  hours.  The  distribution  volume  (162  and  156  ml)  was  below  plasma 
volume. AUC (0-48 h) measured was 355 and 412 µg/ml x h respectively. 
Page 11 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism 
The breakdown of antibodies has been reported in the literature. The murine antibody is expected to be 
broken  down  into  individual  amino  acids  similarly  to  other  immunoglobulins.  Information  was 
provided  on  the  effect  of  different  radionuclides  on  the  catabolism  of  antibodies,  using  a  murine 
antibody  labelled  with  iodine  (131I),  indium  (111In),  technetium  (99mTc)  or  selenium  (75Se),  the  latter 
being  incorporated  as  a  metabolic  marker  and  behaving  as  an  unlabelled  MAb.  The  native  and 
radiolabelled murine antibodies are initially taken up into the liver to a similar extent, but the retention 
of radioactivity in the liver is dependent upon the label used, with  75Se,  111In and  99mTc (with a high 
sulphydryl content) being retained for 5 days and 99mTc (with a low number of sulphydryl groups) and 
131I showing decreasing within 2 days.  
Excretion 
The elimination of radioactivity from the body was measured in the rat pharmacokinetic study. Over 
30  hours,  31-34%  of  the  radioactivity  was  excreted  in  the  urine  and  7-13%  in  the  faeces.  Faecal 
elimination was noted mainly from the 17h time point. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
No studies have been submitted.   
Toxicology 
•  Single-dose toxicity 
Acute toxicity studies were conducted in mice and rats. Results are shown in Table 6 
Table 6 
Acute toxicity in mice and rats  
Study ID 
158-11 
158-12 
Species/ 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
Mouse 
5/sex/group 
Rat 
5/sex/group 
Dose/Route 
0,  0.5,  1,  5  mg/kg
IV 
0,  0.5,  1,  5  mg/kg
IV 
Approx.  lethal  dose 
/ 
observed  max 
non-lethal dose 
Max  non-lethal  dose 
> 5mg/kg 
Max  non-lethal  dose 
> 5mg/kg 
Major findings 
None 
None 
•  Repeat-dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeated-dose studies were conducted in rats and cynomolgus monkeys. The results are summarised 
in Table 7 
Table 7  
Repeat-dose toxicity in the rat and cynomolgus monkey 
Study ID 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/Route 
Duration 
NOEL/ NOAEL 
(mg/kg/day) 
Major findings 
158-42 
Rat 
5/sex/group 
0,  0.5,  1,  2 
mg/kg/day 
IV 
30 days 
6555 TSP 
Cynomolgus 
monkey 
3/sex/group 
0.1, 
0.5, 
mg/kg/day 
IV 
1.0 
30 days 
NOEL 
0.5mg/kg/day 
Dose-dependent 
cell 
round 
infiltration in the 
liver 
Increased  spleen 
weight  in  males 
at  1mg/kg/day; 
accumulation  of 
acidophilic 
in 
substance 
Kupffer  cells  in 
liver of one male 
at 1mg/kg/day 
Page 12 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the rat, there was a dose-dependent round cell infiltration in the portal area of the liver seen in 6/10, 
9/10, 9/10 and 10/10 rats in the control, low-, intermediate- and high-dose groups, respectively. There 
was an increase in incidence and severity of the infiltration.  
In  the  monkey,  treatment-related  findings  were  confined  to  the  high-dose  males  (increased  spleen 
weight with no histopathological correlates). In 1/3 animals, accumulation of an acidophilic substance 
in Kupffer cells in the portal area of the liver was observed, with some instances of single cell necrosis 
and focal vasculitis in the liver.  After 14 days, most monkeys had developed antibodies against the 
murine antibodies. However, antibodies were also detected in some control animals at week 4.   
Both repeat-dose studies included ophthalmoscopic examination and ECG measurements. The results 
showed no effect on ECG or ophthalmoscopy in either the rat or the monkey. 
•  Genotoxicity 
A  number  of  genotoxicity  studies  have  been  conducted.  Technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  does  not 
show genotoxic potential.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies were submitted.   
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
There were no studies submitted on reproduction toxicity, fertility and early embryonic development, 
embryo-fetal development, pre-natal and post-natal development nor in juvenile animals. .  
•  Toxicokinetic data 
No toxicokinetic studies were submitted.  
•  Local tolerance  
A report of a local tolerance study (Study 158-24) in rabbits using the intravenous (i.v.), intra-arterial 
(i.a.) and paravenous (p.v.) routes was submitted. The study was conducted using kit produced by the 
original manufacturers of antibody and PTP.  
Animals  received  1mg/3ml  intravenous  (i.v.)  and  intra-arterial  (i.a.)  or  0.033mg/0.1ml  paravenous 
(p.v.)  into  the  ear,  with  saline  injected  into  the  contra-lateral  ear  as  control.  There  was  slight 
perivascular  reddening  within  the  first  2  days  of  the  study  following  i.a.  and  p.v.  administration. 
Similar  reactions  were  seen  with  the  saline  control.  The  i.v.  administration  did  not  produce  any 
irritation.    There  were  very  slight  to  slight  haemorrhages  in  single  animals  in  the  i.v.,  i.a.  and  p.v. 
groups, with similar findings at the control sites.  
A  further  series  of  studies  investigating  local  tolerance  were  conducted  in  rabbits  using  the  kit 
containing  the  antibody  produced  by  the  drug  substance  manufacturer  and  PTP  from  the  previous 
manufacturer and prepared with decayed technetium and saline as a control in the contra-lateral side. 
Following injection of 0.5ml into the marginal ear vein, technetium (99mTc) besilesomab had no local 
effects  besides  reddening  around  the  injection  site  in  one  animal,  which  was  reversible  in  8  days 
(study  No.  TSXT20000284).  Injection  of  0.5ml  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  into  the  central 
artery  of  rabbit  ear  was  well  tolerated  and  there  were  no  histopathological  findings  (study  No. 
TSXT20000285).  Injection  of  1.0ml  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  paravenously  to  the  vena 
saphena lateralis of the right hind leg of rabbits showed reversible local irritation in 2/4 rabbits (study 
No. TSXT20000287). Examination on day 7 revealed hardening of subcutaneous tissue in one rabbit 
and mild inflammatory cell infiltration in paravenous subcutaneous tissue and adjacent muscle in 4/4 
rabbits.  Injection  of  1.0ml  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  intramuscularly  into  the  sacrospinal 
muscle  in  rabbits  showed  no  clinical  or  histopathological  signs  of  local  irritation  following 
intramuscular (i.m.) administration (study No. TSXT20000286).  
•  Other toxicity studies 
The applicant conducted a number of studies with various materials used in the manufacturing process 
or as excipients in the product (Triton X-100, PTP and Protein A). Each of the studies was stated to be 
Page 13 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GLP-compliant. Triton X-100 was lethal at a high dose (125 mg/kg in mice; 20 mg/kg in anaesthetised 
cats)  but  well  tolerated  at  lower  doses  (2.5  mg/kg  in  mice  and  1  mg/kg  in  cats).  At  high  doses  of 
besilesomab  in  human  blood  in  vitro  (180  and  360  µg/ml  blood),  there  was  decreased  platelet 
aggregation.  Concentrations  of  18  µg/ml  and  higher  caused  haemolysis,  increased  the  proportion  of 
segmented neutrophils and decreased lymphocytes. PTP was not found to be mutagenic in a reverse 
mutation  test  at  any  concentration  tested  (10  to  2500  µg/plate),  either  in  the  presence  or  absence  of 
metabolic  activation,  nor  clastogenic  in  a  micronucleus  test  in  mice  at  an  intraperitoneal  dose  of 
30mg/kg.  For  protein  A,  mice  were  given  a  single  intravenous  dose  at  10,  100  or  500  µg/kg,  with 
saline as control. Clinical signs (aggravated respiration, shaggy coats and partially closed eyes) were 
seen in the high dose group for 2 hours after administration. There were no other clinical signs, body 
weight changes or gross pathological findings in any group. The NOEL was therefore 100µg/kg.  
•  Antigenicity 
There were no studies submitted on antigenicity. In the repeat-dose study in the monkey, antibodies 
against technetium (99mTc) besilesomab were detected.  
Immunotoxicity 
• 
There were no studies submitted on immunotoxicity. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  environmental  risk  assessment  is  based  on  the  relevant  components  of  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab,  namely  PTP,  Tc  and  the  radioactivity  associated  with  Tc-(99m).  The  antibody  itself  is 
expected  to  be  broken  down  by  normal  physiological  processes  and  does  not  present  a  risk  to  the 
environment. The values for Predicted Environment Concentration (PEC) for PTP and Tc are 0.15 x 
10-3 ng/l and 0.0021 x 10-3 ng/l respectively. The initial PEC for radioactivity from the Tc-(99m) was 
calculated to be 0.0027µCi/l, taking no account of the short half-life of this isotope.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
In vitro binding of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab was demonstrated in granulocytes in a number of 
normal human tissues as well as to some human carcinomas. The antibody also bound to granulocytes 
in  peripheral  blood  from  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  from  humans,  which  validated  the  use  of  the 
cynomolgus  monkey  as  a  species  for  toxicity  studies.  Binding  of  the  antibody  was  shown  for 
hybridoma  supernatants as well as for  the purified antibody and the technetium (99mTc) besilesomab 
kit product.  
Non-clinical studies were conducted in rats, dogs and cynomolgus monkeys. The rat species does not 
have  the  appropriate  epitope  for  binding  and  was  used  to  measure  distribution  in  normal  animals 
(dosimetry).  The  radioactivity  associated  with  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  was  being  measured, 
either in the body fluids or distributed to the various tissues, as free technetium (99mTc) besilesomab as 
there was no binding of the antibody to any epitope.  Pharmacokinetics were evaluated in monkeys. 
The terminal half-life of the antibody was 26 and 36 hours (only 2 animals used). The plasma half-life 
was 30-35 hours, which was comparable in the rat and monkey. This suggests a similar terminal half-
life  in  man  and  animals  (23h,  26-36h  and  30-35h  in  man,  monkey  and  rat,  respectively).  However 
urinary excretion appears to be lower in man (13-15% over 24hours) compared with rats (30% in 30h). 
Section 5.2 (Pharmacokinetic properties) of the SPC contains human data. 
Safety  pharmacology  was  investigated  in  anaesthetised  dogs,  with  no  effect  on  cardiovascular  or 
respiratory  systems,  haematology,  coagulation  or  clinical  chemistry  parameters.  There  were  no 
changes noted in ECG in rats or monkeys during the repeated-dose toxicity studies. The absence of a 
study to investigate effects on the CNS is justified as antibodies, high molecular weight compounds, 
do not cross the blood brain barrier. 
Repeated dose studies were conducted in rats and cynomolgus  monkeys. These were 30-day studies 
and this duration is more than adequate to support the single diagnostic administration of besilesomab 
to humans. Besilesomab was generally well tolerated, although there were findings in the liver in both 
species. Toxicokinetic analysis was not conducted in either of the repeated-dose studies. The studies 
were  conducted  in  the  early  1990’s,  before  the  introduction  of  guidance  on  the  collection  of 
Page 14 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
toxicokinetic data. The absence of such data is not considered to be a concern for this product, which 
is administered intravenously as a single dose.   
A NOAEL was not established in rats, but in monkeys the safety findings were restricted to the high 
dose.  Therefore,  the  NOAEL  in  the  monkey  was  0.5  mg/kg/day.  Toxicokinetic  analysis  was  not 
undertaken and safety margins cannot be calculated on the basis of systemic exposure. However the 
maximum administered dose in man is 1mg (or 0.016 mg/kg for a 60 kg person), which is 30 times 
lower than the NOAEL (0.5 mg/kg/day) in the monkey and represents a 30-fold safety margin in terms 
of applied dose (10 in terms of body surface area).  
Based on the genotoxicity studies submitted besilesomab does not have genotoxic potential. 
The  lack  of  carcinogenicity  studies  is  justified  for  this  type  of  product  (a  diagnostic  containing  an 
antibody for a single use). There was no evidence of toxicity to the reproductive organs in the repeat-
dose  toxicity  studies  and  the  absence  of  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  has  been 
adequately justified. Technetium (99mTc) besilesomab is a radioactive diagnostic agent and should not 
be given to pregnant women. The label (technetium-99m) has a half-life of about 6 hours and most of 
the  radioactivity  will  have  decayed  within  24  hours  of  the  dose.  The  SPC  reflects  the  absence  of 
reproductive toxicity data and contraindicates the product in pregnancy.  
A series of local tolerance studies in rabbits employing single i.v., i.a., p.v. or i.m. administrations of 
technetium (99mTc) besilesomab (with decayed technetium) demonstrated that the product is generally 
well tolerated.  
The finding of anti-mouse antibodies in the monkey study was not unexpected and human anti-mouse 
antibodies (HAMA) have been found in man which might affect the diagnostic ability of technetium 
(99mTc) besilesomab if HAMAs are present in patients. Repeated administration might not be effective 
in the presence of HAMA. Antibodies to the murine antibody were not assayed in the rat study, but 
were present in the monkeys in the repeated-dose study.  
Based on the values for Predicted Environment Concentration (PEC) for PTP and Tc, the use of the 
product is not considered to pose a risk to the environment.  
In  summary,  many  of  the  non-clinical  studies  were  performed  approximately  15  years  ago  and 
assessment of the MAA raised a number of questions. All questions raised were resolved during the 
assessment and there are no remaining issues in the non-clinical section. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Diagnostic Radiopharmaceuticals ATC code: V09HA03 
A previous application was submitted to the EMEA in 2005, but it was withdrawn before the end of 
the assessment. The clinical data submitted include the documentation of clinical studies performed by 
Behring-Werke  AG  more  than  10  years  ago  with  besilesomab  manufactured  according  to  the  old 
manufacturing process, data of 3 recent studies performed by CIS bio international using besilesomab 
manufactured  according  to  the  new  manufacturing  process  and  published  literature  to  demonstrate 
evidence  of  diagnostic  performance.  Studies  306340  and  AG-NP  were  carried  out  to  assess  the 
comparability  of  the  products  derived  from  old  process  (used  in  the  old  studies)  and  new  process 
(commercial product).   
A new pivotal phase III study, which according to the applicant follows the “Points to consider on the 
evaluation  of  diagnostic  agents”  (CPMP/EWP/1119/98),  is  the  only  new  clinical  documentation 
submitted  with  this  second  application.    No  scientific  advice  was  requested  from  the  CHMP.    This 
study was performed with the commercial product. 
The applicant’s initial proposed indications were the following: 
Page 15 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Scintigraphic imaging for the detection or investigation of sites of inflammation and /or infection 
in the following cases: 
−  detection of chronic peripheral osteomyelitis 
−  investigation of infected diabetic foot 
−  detection of infected joint prosthesis 
−  investigation of endocarditis when other imaging modalities are unconclusive 
−  investigation of fever of unknown origin when other imaging modalities are unconclusive 
•  Scintigraphic imaging of bone marrow involvement (detection and extent of carcinoma metastasis, 
as cold spots). 
The current proposed indication is the following: 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Scintigraphic imaging, in conjunction with other appropriate imaging modalities, for determining the 
location of inflammation/infection in peripheral bone in adults with suspected osteomyelitis. 
Scintimun should not be used for the diagnosis of diabetic foot infection.  
The complete list of the clinical studies is presented in chronological order in Table 8.  Studies AG-
NP, 306340 and AG-PH3 were performed with the commercial product. 
Table 8 
Tabulated summary of all clinical studies 
 Study  
Study dates
 Phase  
 No. of  
patients
 BI 71.015  
05/87 – 09/90  
pilot
 379  
 7MN-301SZ-A   12/91 – 12/93
 phase III  
 690  
 7D-101SZ-A  
04/92 – 05/93  
 phase I  
 24  
 7MN-302SZ-A   05/92 – 06/93  
 phase III  
 4  
 7D-201 SZ-A  
07/92 – 12/93  
 phase II  
 49  
 AG-NP  
07/00 – 12/00  
 phase IV  
 20  
 306340  
05/02 – 06/02  
 phase I  
 19  
 AG-PH3
06/06 – 01/08
 phase III  
 120  
Design
open-label, non-randomized, multi-centre clinical study, 
diagnostic efficacy and safety   
open-label, non-randomized, multi-centre study in  patients 
with inflammatory diseases, diagnostic efficacy  and safety    
single injection of either 0.25 or 1.0 mg of  SCINTIMUN, 
parallel group design, 2 centres,  pharmacokinetic parameters, 
safety, and diagnostic efficacy    
repeated administration of SCINTIMUN, 5 centres, open-label, 
4 patients evaluable, pharmacokinetic parameters, safety, and 
diagnostic efficacy 
open-label, non-randomized, multi-centre study in patients with 
suspected inflammatory processes,  diagnostic efficacy and 
safety   
randomised, open-label, comparative study (old versus new 
manufacturing process), patients with clinical  findings 
suggesting infected ulcer and/or osteomyelitis of the foot 
(diabetic foot) 
comparison between old and new manufacturing  process, 
randomized, open-label, comparative study   
cross-over, randomized, multicentre study in patients with 
osteomyelitis (SCINTIMUN versus 99mTc-WBCs)  
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. There was no 
major concern with regard to GCP compliance of the new pivotal trial. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters were obtained in 3 studies involving a total of 52 patients (Table 9). 
Two  studies  (7D-101SZ-A  and  7MN-302SZ-A)  were  performed  with  99mTc-MAb  BW  250/183 
(technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab)  manufactured  according  to  the  “old  process”  and  study  (Study 
306340) was carried out upon regulatory request to compare both manufacturing processes with regard 
to  bio-distribution  and  kinetics.  Pharmacokinetic  measurements  were  obtained  in  patients  with 
suspected inflammatory processes. 
Page 16 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 
Tabulated summary of pharmacokinetic studies 
Study 
(study 
period) 
7D-101SZ-A 
(4/92 – 5/93) 
Phase 
No. of 
patients 
Phase I 
24 
7MN-302SZ-A 
(5/92 - 6/93) 
306340 
(5/02 – 6/02) 
phase III 
9 
(4 evaluable) 
Phase I 
19 
Single injection of either 0.25 or 1.0 mg of 
99mTc MAb BW 250/183, parallel group 
design, 2 centres 
Repeated administration of 99mTc-MAb BW 250/183, 
5 centres, open-label. 
Comparison between old and new 
manufacturing process, randomized, open-
label, comparative study, 2 centres 
Radioactivity levels were measured with a gamma counter in plasma and whole blood to demonstrate 
the  binding  kinetics  of  the  antibody  to  cells.  The  additional  quantitative  assay  of  antibody 
concentration  was  meant  to  show  the  pharmacokinetics  of  intact  labelled  antibody.  The  analytical 
method was based on a commercial kit (Enzygnost® mIgG micro), now discontinued, which detected 
mouse  IgGs.  PK  data  were  analysed  according  to  a  two  compartment  model  and  in  a  non-
compartmental  model  for  study  306340.  The  radiation  exposure  was  calculated  as  per  the  MIRD 
concept.    Numbers  in  the  original  study  (7D-101SZ-A)  as  well  as  the  comparability  study  (Study 
306340)  were  chosen  arbitrarily  as  variability  of  results  were  unknown  to  estimate  the  number  of 
patients that would be required to fulfil statistical requirements.  
•  Absorption  
There  were  no  absorption  study  reports  submitted.  The  bioavailability  is  100%  as  the  product  is 
administered intravenously. 
•  Distribution 
The data were obtained mainly in Study 7D-101 SZ-A, an open-label, non-randomized, parallel group 
design  phase I  study,  conducted  in  two  study  centres  in  24 patients  with  suspected  inflammatory 
processes.    Half  of  the  patients  received  a  single  intravenous  injection  of  either  0.25 mg  or  1 mg  of 
99mTc-MAb  BW  250/183.    The  mean  administered  99mTc  radioactivity  was  492 MBq  (range:  448  to 
560 MBq) in the 0.25 mg group and 623 MBq (range: 449 to 1,000 MBq) in the 1 mg group. Primary 
study objectives were pharmacokinetics and radiation exposure of the patients. 
Blood samples and urine samples for measurement of 99mTc radioactivity and the concentration of the 
antibody  were  taken  over  24 hours  after  injection.    Further  samples  for  determination  of  antibody 
concentration  were  taken  up  to  30  days  after  injection.  The  concentration-time  curves  obtained  in 
these  measurements  showed  two  phases:  an  early  α  phase  (0-2 h)  and  a  late  β  phase  (5-24 h).  The 
results are presented in Table 10.  
Page 17 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 
Half-lives  and  clearance  rates  of  decay-corrected  radioactivity  concentration  in 
blood and plasma and of besilesomab concentration in plasma (mean ± SD) 
The  parameters  for  the  intact  MAb  BW  250/183  plasma  concentration  showed  large  standard 
deviations;  however,  the  median  values  of  the  antibody  based-half-lives  and  clearance  rates  showed 
agreement  with  the  corresponding  plasma  radioactivity  values,  which  may  suggest  that  the  labelled 
product is stable in vivo. 
The biodistribution data, measured as % of regional activity versus whole body activity, showed very 
similar results for the liver with 1.5% of whole body activity for imaging at 6 hours, and 1.6% (NP) at 
24 hours.  Corresponding results for the spleen were 3.0% at 6 hours, and 2.3% at 24 hours.  
As for the volumes of distribution, the central compartment was approximately 4L, close to the plasma 
volume,  whether  determined  from  plasma  radioactivity  or  from  intact  monoclonal  antibody 
concentrations; the peripheral compartment was slightly greater, around 6L for both methods (Table 
11). 
Table 11: 
Population PK parameters estimated form plasma sample - Study 7D-101SZ-A  
•  Metabolism 
The  antibody  is  metabolised  into  amino  acids.  The  metabolism  of  the  antibody  is  mainly  due  to 
hepatic  clearance.    Binding  of  besilesomab  to  circulating  granulocytes  does  not  induce  its  rapid 
endocytosis by the target cells which could lead to lysosomal degradation of the internalised antibody 
and  its  exocytotic  release  by  granulocytes.    Liver  uptake  of  radioactivity  was  minimal  under  trial 
conditions  and  liver  impairment  is  unlikely  to  affect  the  metabolism  and  elimination  in  a  clinically 
significant manner. 
Page 18 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Elimination 
Technetium (99mTc) decays with a half-life of 6 hours.  The total blood radioactivity is the result of the 
contribution  of  radioactive  intact  labelled  antibody  and  other  radioactive  species  like  antibody 
fragments, smaller metabolites and free pertechnetate (99mTc).  These radioactive species display large 
differences  in  how  they  are  cleared  from  blood.    Whereas  the  radioactivity  associated  with  intact 
antibody  will  stay  in  the  vascular  compartment  for  a  long  time,  radioactive  fragments,  small 
radiometabolites and free pertechnetate (99mTc) will clear rapidly from blood and will accumulate in 
the kidneys and further in urine.  In all studies, about 14 % of the injected radioactivity was recovered 
in  urine,  which  was  only  collected  for  24  hours  after  administration.    This  radioactivity  can  be 
attributed  to  the  elimination  of  free  technetium  (99mTc)  and  labelled  low-molecular-weight  antibody 
fragments  and  small  radiometabolites.    No  information  was  provided  about  the  fate  of  the  injected 
radioactivity  after  the  first  24  hours  post-administration  of  Scintimun.    However,  the  radioactivity 
absorbed  by  the  kidneys  (0.022  mGy/MBq  on  average)  lies  in  the  range  of  other  approved  99mTc-
radiopharmaceuticals.    Furthermore,  due  to  the  short  half-life  of  technetium  (99Tc),  technical 
limitations would prevent any meaningful determination after 24 hours. 
•  Bioequivalence 
Study  306340  was  carried  out  to  assess  the  comparability  between  the  old  process  (OP)  and  new 
process (NP).  This was a randomised, open-label, comparative study on kinetics and biodistribution, 
conducted  at  two  study  centres  in  19  patients  (OP;  N=10;  NP;  N=9)  with  suspected  or  documented 
inflammatory processes.  In both groups, the maximum administered antibody dose was 1 mg, labeled 
with a mean 99mTc radioactivity of 828±106 MBq (OP; range: 670 to 1001 MBq) and of 836±114 MBq 
(NP; range: 731 to 1034 MBq).   
Bioequivalence  at  the  5%  significance  level  was  to  be  established  by  demonstrating  that  the  90% 
confidence intervals (CI) for the ratio of the geometric means of Cmax (ratio NP/OP) and the ratio of 
the geometric means of AUC0-tlast (ratio NP/OP) are included in the interval from 80% to 125%.  The 
ratios  NP/OP  and  their  confidence  intervals  are  summarised  in  Table  12.  Taking  into  account  body 
weight  and  gender  as  covariates,  the  size  of  the  CI’s  was  reduced  and  the  upper  limit  of  125%  was 
only marginally exceeded. 
Table 12 
Ratio of geometric means (NP/OP) for Cmax and AUC0 – tlast , and confidence 
intervals (CI) – Study 306340 
Without  body  weight  and 
gender as covariates 
With body weight and gender as 
covariates 
(retrospective 
analysis) 
Ratio of means 
CI [LL, UL] 
CI [LL, UL] 
Cmax 
1.1251 
AUC0 – tlast 
1.1010 
[88.32%, 143.33%] 
[99.79%, 126.86%] 
[88.72%, 136.62%] 
[95.40%, 127.06%] 
LL – lower limit of CI, UL – upper limit of CI 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Tables 13 and 14 give details of relationship of radioactivity to administered dose for early and late 
phases, with and without correction for decay.  
Page 19 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 
99mTc activity in plasma: PK parameters in early (α) phase – Study 7D-101SZ-A  
Table 14 
Tc-99m activity in plasma: PK parameters in late (β) phase – Study 7D-101 SZ-A 
Page 20 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Special populations 
There were no specific studies carried out in any special population. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
There were no studies submitted on PK interaction. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamics (PD) data on technetium (99mTc) besilesomab include 2 studies in patients (Studies 
7D-101SZ-A and 7MN-302 SZ-A), 2 published papers and 4 in vitro studies. 
•  Mechanism of action 
There were no studies submitted on mechanism of action. Although the mechanism of accumulation of 
besilesomab at the site of infection/inflammation has not been fully elucidated, it is postulated that it is 
mainly passive (increased vascular permeability) and partly active (migration of human granulocytes 
carrying  besilesomab  to  the  infection/inflammation  site)  because  only  10%  to  20%  of  the  injected 
radiolabelled  antibody  bind  in  vivo  to  human  circulating  granulocytes.    Specific  binding  of 
besilesomab  to  already  migrated  and  activated  granulocytes  may  be  the  major  part  of  the  detection 
signal. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In 6 healthy subjects, 60-97% of peripheral blood granulocytes and less than 5% of other peripheral 
blood cells were stained by the antibody in vitro (study BW 250/183-BS-9).  In a most recent study 
performed with the new product, this percentage was found to be 97.45% and 96.58% of peripheral 
blood granulocytes, for males and females respectively. Another study showed that besilesomab binds 
to 99.6% of mature human granulocytes in whole blood samples analysed by flow cytometry but does 
not bind to early granulocyte precursors in human bone marrow CD34+ cells. 
No  significant  binding  of  besilesomab  to  other  human  peripheral  blood  cells  was  observed: 
erythrocytes (0.1% to 1.3%), platelets (0% to 0.9%), lymphocytes (0.2% to 5%) and monocytes (0.4% 
to  3.5%).  Another  study  confirmed  the  non  cross-reactivity  of  besilesomab  with  human  platelets 
(<3%). 
Tissue specificity of besilesomab was evaluated on a broad panel of human cryopreserved normal as 
well  as  cancer  tissues  derived  from  various  individuals  using  immunohistochemistry.    Besilesomab 
showed strong binding to colon carcinomas and granulocytic cells in normal tissues (i.e. normal liver, 
lung  and  bone  marrow).    Furthermore,  besilesomab  binds  to  pancreatic,  some  lung  and  some  breast 
carcinomas  but  does  not  bind  to  blood  vessels  and  connective  tissue.    Finally,  CD66  expression  on 
bone  marrow  cells  of  patients  with  multiple  myeloma  was  shown  ex  vivo  by  flow  cytometry  using 
besilesomab as anti CD66.  Therefore, false positive images are possible in case of CEA expressing 
tumours or haematological malignancies such as myeloma. 
Despite  its  binding  capacity  to  human  granulocytes,  besilesomab  does  not  significantly  influence 
granulocyte-mediated  functions  (enzyme  release,  pinocytosis,  chemiluminescence)  and  does  not 
induce  any  lytic  effects  to  epitope  positive  cells  via  complement-dependent  or  antibody-dependent 
cell-mediated cytotoxicity (CDC or ADCC).  It does not impair bone marrow cell proliferation. 
Although  no  preliminary  dose  finding  study  was  carried  out,  two  studies  have  compared  different 
injected amounts of monoclonal antibody (0.25 mg, 0.5 mg and 1 mg) and did not show any difference 
in terms of efficacy (see Table 15). 
Page 21 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 
Studies 7MN-301 SZ-A and 7D-101 SZ-A: sensitivity and specificity for detection 
of infection / inflammation with different doses of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab  
As  for  the  dose  of  radioactivity,  the  retrospective  analysis  of  study  7MN-301 SZ-A  revealed  no 
statistically significant differences in sensitivity and specificity between the (retrospectively defined) 
groups receiving different amounts of radioactivity (see Table 16).  However, sensitivity was lower in 
the  group  of  patients  receiving  less  than  400 MBq  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab,  whereas  the 
sensitivity and specificity were at comparably high levels in all other activity groups. 
Table 16 
Sensitivity and specificity for detection of infection / inflammation with different 
radioactivity – Study 7MN-301 SZ-A: 
Based  on  these  studies,  the  recommended  radioactivity  is  between  400  and  800  MBq.    Since  the 
maximum radioactivity that can be added to one vial containing 1 mg of antibody is 1,800 MBq, this 
corresponds to the administration of 0.25 to 1 mg of besilesomab. 
Further  parameters  were  examined  to  analyze  diagnostic  efficacy  more  precisely  such  as  the 
occurrence of unusual accumulations. Results are shown for study 7MN-301 SZ-A in Table 17. 
Table 17 
Unusual accumulations at 5 h and 24 h after injection – Study 7MN-301 SZ-A  
Page 22 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
For the current application, the clinical data submitted consists of clinical studies performed more than 
10 years ago with besilesomab manufactured according to the old manufacturing process, data from 3 
recent studies using besilesomab manufactured according to the new manufacturing process and data 
from published literature.  The new single phase III study AG-PH3, is considered as the pivotal study 
for efficacy.  This is a comparative study with technetium (99mTc) exametazime labelled leukocytes.   
•  Dose response study(ies) 
There  was  no  prospective  dose-response  study  carried  out.  A  retrospective  analysis  of  a  correlation 
between radioactivity and diagnostic efficacy (sensitivity and specificity) was submitted (see previous 
section).  Based  on  these  results,  the  selected  radioactivity  for  the  pivotal  study  AG-PH3  was  800 
MBq.  
In  study  7MN-301  SZ-A,  images  were  acquired  at  5  h  and  24  h  post-injection.    Although  the 
sensitivity  and  specificity  at  each  time  timepoint  and  by  class  of  diagnoses  did  not  change 
significantly,  acquiring  images  at  5  h  and  24  h  increased  the  percentage  of  lesions  found.    In  three 
percent of patients lesions were found at 5 h post-injection (p.i.) but not found at 24 h. Five percent of 
patients had no lesion at 5 h p.i.; however, a lesion was detectable at 24 h p.i. Based on these results  
planar acquisition was done at 4 h and 24 h p.i. in the pivotal study AG-PH3.  
•  Main study(ies)  
AG-PH3:    Phase  III,  multicentre,  randomised,  open-label,  clinical  study  on  the  agreement  of 
Scintimun  and  labelled  99mTc-WBC  in  diagnosing  infection/inflammation  by  scintigraphy  in 
peripheral bone and joints with suspected osteomyelitis. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Main Inclusion criteria: 
•  Patients  aged  at  least  18,  both  sexes,  suffering  from  suspected  or  documented  osteomyelitis 
(acute,  subacute,  chronic)  in  the  peripheral  skeleton  including  patients  with  loosening  of  joint 
prosthesis and patients with diabetic foot 
•  Patients  with  at  least  one  of  the  following  signs  or  symptoms  was  required:  localised  pain, 
nonhealing  skin  ulceration,  fever  >  37.8°C  for  at  least  3  days,  leukocyte  count  in  excess  of  the 
upper  normal  limits,  erythrocyte  sedimentation  rate  in  excess  of  the  upper  normal  limits, 
radiographic findings suggestive of osteomyelitis, or positive blood or wound cultures. 
Main exclusion criteria:  
•  Pregnant and breastfeeding women  
•  Patients with a positive HAMA test prior to the first study drug administration 
•  Severe disease or surgery (except for orthopedic reasons) within the last 4 weeks prior to the first 
study drug administration 
•  Patients with leukocyte count < 4.109/L (4,000/mm3) 
•  The use of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids within 3 days prior to the first 
injection and up to 24 h after the last injection 
•  Receipt  of  cancer  chemotherapy  and  immunosuppressive  drugs  or  immunomodulators  within  4 
weeks prior to study entry 
Treatments 
The comparator was Ceretec, 99mTc-exametazime (also known as hexamethyl propylene amine oxime 
(HMPAO)).  The  white  blood  cells  (WBCs)  preparation,  labelling  and  quality  control  was  done 
according to the SPC of Ceretec or the own validated procedures of the study sites. 
Page 23 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  was  a  single  intravenous  dose  of  800  MBq  (22 
mCi)  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  and  one  single  intravenous  dose  of  330  MBq  (9  mCi)  of 
99mTc-WBCs in a randomised order.  However, the German Radiation Protection Committee asked to 
reduce  the  cumulative  activities  to  be  administered  to  German  patients  in  order  to  not  exceed  the 
maximal effective dose of 10 mSv after injection of the two tracers.  The study protocol was amended 
for German patients to reduce the activity of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab from 800 MBq to 650 
MBq  and  the  activity  of  99mTc-WBCs  from  330  MBq  to  300  MBq  leading  to  a  reduction  of  the 
maximal  effective  dose  from  11.7  mSv  to  10  mSv.    The  wash-out  period  between  the  two 
administrations was 2 – 4 days. 
Drugs inhibiting inflammation which may lead to false negative results were not allowed during the 
last  3  days  before  injection  and  till  the  acquisition  of  the  last  images  of  the  study.  Chemotherapy, 
immunosuppressive  drugs  and  immunomodulators  were  not  allowed  within  4  weeks  of  study  entry 
until one month after the last images acquisition. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  agreement  rate  of  the  immunoscintigraphy  with  technetium 
(99mTc)  besilesomab  and  scintigraphy  with  99mTc-WBCs  with  regard 
the  diagnosis  of 
infection/inflammation in patients suspected of osteomyelitis.  The agreement rate was based on the 
evaluations of three blinded and independent readers in a blinded read. 
to 
The  secondary  objectives  were  to  assess  the  image  quality  and  the  safety  of  the  two  products,  in 
particular, the possible HAMA induction after technetium (99mTc) besilesomab administration. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy variable 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  agreement  rate  as  an  average  across  the  results  of  the  three 
blinded readers ("average reader") based on the adjudication of a fourth blinded reader.  
Secondary variables 
The secondary variables are: 
•  Agreement rate per blinded reader based on adjudication of 4th blinded reader 
•  Agreement rate across the three blinded readers and per reader based on the final evaluation of 
the clinical investigators at Month 1 taking into account all available findings such as medical 
history,  physical  examination,  results  of  biology,  biopsy  and  /or  imaging  and  the  clinical 
follow-up 
Image  quality  as  assessed  by  the  three  blinded  readers  (using  a  categorical  scale  1-4/non 
evaluable) 
• 
•  Safety  of  the  two  products  and,  in  particular,  the  possible  HAMA  factor  induction  after 
administration of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab 
Sample size 
This  was  a  non-inferiority  trial  with  an  intra-individual  comparison  design.    The  following 
assumptions were set: 
assumed agreement rate = 0.80 
limit of clinical relevance = -0.10 
• 
• 
•  α = 0.025 
•  power = 80% 
The  assumption  of  an  agreement  rate  of  80%  was  based  on  published  data  with  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab  (sensitivity  between  69  and  100%  for  the  diagnosis  of  infection).    For  this  study,  a 
sensitivity of 85% was assumed to represent a fair estimate; the same value was assumed for  99mTc-
WBCs.    With  regard  to  specificity,  false  positive  findings  in  the  reported  literature  (for  infection) 
probably  represent  inflammation  without  infectious  agent.    In  the  context  of  this  study,  these  cases 
would be regarded as true positive cases.  A value of 95% was considered appropriate for specificity 
of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  and  99mTc-WBCs.    Based  on  the  assumptions  for  sensitivity  and 
Page 24 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
specificity an overall accuracy of 90% was expected.  For 2 independent methods with an accuracy of 
90% each, the agreement rate was calculated as 82% (0.9 x 0.9 + 0.1 x 0.1).  A one-sample χ²-test with 
80% would require evaluable 153 patients, if only one observation per patient would be obtained. This 
had  to  be  corrected  for  the  effect  of  clustered  data  (i.e.,  1  area  of  infection/inflammation  and  1  not 
affected area for each patient).  The inflation factor (IF) was estimated at 0.70.  Therefore, the number 
of evaluable patients needed was n = 153 * 0.7 = 108.  Taking into account a drop-out rate of 10% and 
a rate of not evaluable images of 10%, a total sample size of 108 plus 20% = 130 patients were to be 
randomised.  
Randomisation 
The  order  of  administration  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  and  99mTc-WBCs  was  centrally 
allocated  randomly  according  to  a  randomisation  list.  Set  of  images  (both  of  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab and 99mTc-exametazime WBC) for each patient was read in a randomised order. 
Blinding (masking) 
The  conduct  of  the  test  procedures  was  not  blinded.  The  images  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab 
and  99mTc-WBCs  were  evaluated  in  a  blinded  and  randomised  way  by  3  independent  nuclear 
physicians with expertise in scintigraphy of infection/inflammation. The 3 readers were blinded to the 
patient,  to  the  study  site  and  to  the  injected  radiotracer,  and  were  not  provided  with  any  details 
concerning the patient population (demographic data, age, indication, clinical question, details of the 
study  protocol)  in  order  to  reduce  possible  bias.  In  order  to  test  intra-reader  variability,  a  randomly 
selected sample (10%) of completed cases was added to the total number of cases to be read, with a 
different random code. 
Statistical methods 
The analyses were performed in all-subject-treated sample (AST) for safety and in per protocol sample 
(PP) for efficacy where AST and PP consisted of: 
•  All-Subjects-Treated  (AST):  all  randomised  patients  who  received  at  least  one  of  the 
treatments (technetium (99mTc) besilesomab and/or 99mTc-WBCs).  The AST set served as the 
Full Analysis Set for safety.  
•  Per-Protocol  (PP)  set:  all  patients  who  received  both  treatments  and  performed  the  required 
imaging  and  who  did  not  have  major  protocol  violations  affecting  the  validity  of  analysis.  
Major  and  minor  protocol  violations  were  identified  at  a  Blind  Review  meeting.    The  PP 
sample served as the Full Analysis Set for the primary and secondary analysis of agreement 
rate, and for the analysis of image quality. 
For  the  primary  objective,  the  agreement  rate  was  analysed  using  a  modified  adjusted  Chi2-test  to 
cover  clustered  data  and  multiple  measurements  per  cluster.  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was 
calculated as an average across the results of the 3 blinded and independent readers ("average reader") 
based on the adjudication results of the fourth blinded reader who compared each reader’s evaluation 
and matched the regions of interest.  The primary analysis of the single primary variable was planned 
as a confirmatory analysis. Therefore no adjustment for multiple testing was necessary. 
The agreement rate was calculated from the results of a 2x2 cross table and defined as follows: 
Number of agreed affected sites + Number of agreed not affected sites 
Total number of all affected and not affected sites 
The  agreement  rate  was  supposed  to  be  sufficient  if  its  one-sided  97.5%  confidence  interval  was 
positioned above 0.70.  
Page 25 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
Patients were recruited from September 2006 until October 2007. There were 130 patients randomised 
and 120 patients evaluable for the primary efficacy variable. 
Conduct of the study 
Six  protocol  amendments  to  the  study  protocol  were  produced  during  the  study  period;  the  main 
changes were: 
•  Changes in the planned end date of the study due to low recruitment rate 
•  Decrease in the threshold of leukocyte count as exclusion criterion (< 4 instead of < 6.109/l) 
•  Correction of the error in the dose of antibody (already mentioned) 
•  A negative scintigraphy to be analysed as one affected site (and not two for both sides) 
•  Reduction in the dose of radioactivity in Germany (already mentioned) 
•  Finally,  an  additional  analysis  of  the  agreement  rates  was  planned,  which  took  into  account  all 
completely  imaged  body  regions,  and  not  only  those  with  affected  sites  at  least  on  one  side,  as 
assessed by the three blinded readers.  A fifth reader was asked to check all body parts that were 
imaged completely for both sides. 
Baseline data 
There were 79 males and 50 females (1 had no CRF completed); their mean age was 61.3 years. 
All patients had a previous history of either joint prostheses (66 patients) or chronic osteomyelitis (34 
patients), or diabetic foot (27 patients), or atherosclerosis with suspicion of osteomyelitis (2 patients). 
At  study  entry,  they  all  presented  either  clinical  symptoms  and/or  biological  signs  and/or  imaging 
findings of osteomyelitis.  The baseline characteristics are shown in Table 18. 
Page 26 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18 
Baseline characteristics – Study AG-PH3 
Numbers analysed 
There were 130 patients randomised in the trial. The PP analysis set included in principle 120 patients.  
However,  an  additional  patient  was  excluded  because  his  images  were  only  assessed  by  2/3  readers 
and  all  the  agreement  rate  analyses  were  conducted  on  119  patients.    It  should  be  noted  that  two 
patients were not injected the tracers in the allocated order due to an error of the investigator; these 
patients were analysed according to the actual tests performed. 
For the agreement rate based on the final assessment of the investigator at Month 1, 7 patients from 
the PP population were excluded from the analysis because the final assessment of the investigator at 
Month 1 was missing.  
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy variable: Agreement rate based on 4th blinded reader 
The agreement rate between three blinded and independent readers for technetium (99mTc) besilesomab 
and  99mTc-WBCs  with  regards  to  the  diagnosis  of  infection/inflammation  by  immunoscintigraphy 
based on the adjudication of a fourth blinded reader is presented in Table 19. Of the 119 patients, 22 
patients  were  completely  negative.    Each  of  these  patients  counted  as  one  agreed  non-affected  (or 
negative) site. In the other 97 patients, at least one affected site was found by any of the three readers 
with any of the two tracers. The value of the agreement across readers was 0.83 with a lower limit of 
the 95% confidence interval of 0.80, which is above the lower limit of clinical relevance of 0.70.  The 
agreement rate was also estimated per reader based on the adjudication of the fourth blinded reader. 
All three readers had an agreement rate between 0.81 and 0.85 and a 95% CI lower bound equal or 
higher to 0.76.  
Table 19 
Agreement rates across readers and per reader based on evaluation of the 4th 
reader - Study AG-PH3 
Page 27 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary variables 
The  agreement  rate  was  also  calculated  by  body  region  based  on  the  evaluation  of  the  3  blinded 
independent readers, not taking into account the adjudication of the fourth reader (Table 20). 
Table 20 
Agreement rate by body region per reader for the whole patient – Study AG-PH3 
This  analysis  was  also  performed  per  separate  body  region.  The  sixteen  body  regions  included  the 
upper  limbs:  shoulder  girdle,  arm,  elbow,  forearm,  wrist,  carpus,  metacarpus,  fingers  and  the  lower 
limbs: hip girdle, thigh, knee, leg, ankle, tarsus, metatarsus, and toes (Table 21).  As some patients had 
lesions  in  more  than  one  segment,  the  sum  of  clusters  across  the  segments  is  higher  than  the  total 
number of patients and the number of clusters for the whole body evaluation. The three body regions 
with the best agreement rate were: elbow, ankle and leg and those with the worst agreement rate were 
toes, knee, and tarsus. 
Table 21 
Agreement rate across readers per whole patients by body region - Study AG-
PH3 
Finally,  the  agreement  rate  was  calculated  by  average  reader  and  per  reader  according  to  the  final 
assessment of the investigator at Month 1. Of the 112 patients analysed, 73 patients were diagnosed by 
the  investigator  as  positive  (with  at  least  one  affected  site)  and  39  patients  as  negative  (with  no 
affected site). The results are shown in Table 22. 
Page 28 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22 
Agreement rate based on the final assessment of the investigator at Month 1- 
Study AG-PH3 
The  assessment  of  the  image  quality  showed  better  results  for  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab 
compared to 99mTc-WBCs. The results are shown in Table 23.  
Table 23 
Frequency distribution of image quality - Study AG-PH3 
The  intra-variability  within  readers  was  assessed.  The  reproducibility  for  image  quality  (four-point 
scale) ranged between 0.18 and 0.38 using Cohen’s kappa.  A kappa value of 0.18 represents a slight 
agreement and a kappa value between 0.21 to 0.40 represents a fair agreement between the results of 
the initial read and those of the re-read.  The kappas were statistically significantly different from zero 
for 2 of the three readers. 
Also the reproducibility of the readers to assess diagnosis (affected/not affected) was tested.  Cohen’s 
kappa  ranged  from  0.57  to  0.71,  which  means  moderate  to  substantial  agreement  in  assessing  the 
diagnosis.  All p values were highly significant.  The kappa values of the first 2 readers were higher 
than the kappa value of the third reader.  
In  addition,  kappa  values  were  calculated  separately  for  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  and  99mTc-
WBCs for each reader's assessment.  The reproducibility of diagnosis did not differ clearly between 
the two products. 
Ancillary analyses 
In addition to the agreement rate, sensitivity and specificity with respect to the final assessment of the 
investigator  at  Month  1  as  standard  of  reference  (SOR)  was  calculated  for  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab and 99mTc-WBCs and results are shown in Table 24.  
Page 29 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 24 
Sensitivity and specificity of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab and 99mTc-WBCs 
using the final diagnosis of the investigator as standard of reference - Study AG-
PH3 
Post-hoc analyses 
A post-hoc analysis based on a surrogate standard of truth, which was an evaluation by an expert panel 
of all data available from the study CRFs plus all additional raw data available from the investigators 
was provided (Table 25).  This expert panel did not have access to the imaging results with technetium 
(99mTc) besilesomab and 99mTc WBCs. The expert panel provided a diagnostic as normal/abnormal in 
74  patients  out  of  119  (62%)  and  inconclusive  diagnosis  for  the  45  remaining  patients  where  no 
additional  data  had  been  received.    The  overall  diagnostic  performance  of  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab  in  this  analysis,  sensitivity  (76%)  and  specificity  (69%)  appeared  similar  to  that  of  the 
previous analysis based on the investigator diagnosis at 1 month, 75% and 72%, respectively.  Of note, 
contrary to the expert panel, the investigators had access to the results of the test imaging results.  For 
99mTc-WBCs,  sensitivity  was  63%  and  specificity  76%,  which  compared  to  59%  and  79%, 
respectively, in the previous analysis.  Confidence intervals were wide and no analysis by indication 
(e.g. chronic osteomyelitis, infection of joint prosthesis, diabetic foot) or clinical setting (e.g. acute vs. 
chronic) was presented. 
Table 25 
Average reader diagnostic performance with truth panel assessment as SOR - 
Patient-based analysis (at least one body region affected vs. no body region 
affected) 
Tracer 
Number of 
patients 
Estimate and 95 % Confidence Intervals 
Sensitivity 
Specificity 
Accuracy 
(99mTc)-besilesomab 
99mTc-WBCs 
Difference 
(99mTc)-besilesomab 
99mTc-WBCs 
Difference 
(99mTc)-besilesomab 
99mTc-WBCs 
Difference 
41 
33 
74 
0.756 
0.626 
0.130 
0.687 
0.758 
-0.071 
0.725 
0.685 
0.041 
[0.647 – 0.866] 
[0.501 – 0.751] 
[0.031 – 0.229] 
[0.554 – 0.820] 
[0.633 – 0.882] 
[-0.184 – 0.042] 
[0.641 – 0.810] 
[0.595 – 0.774] 
[-0.037 – 0.118] 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
There was no meta-analysis performed by the applicant as the population included in the clinical trials 
was not homogeneous and the reference method was different from one study to another. 
The Applicant has also provided meta-analyses on the diagnostic performance of technetium (99mTc) 
besilesomab,  99mTc-WBCs,  Magnetic  Resonance  Imaging  (MRI), and  LeukoScan  (sulesomab)  in  the 
Page 30 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indication  of  suspected  osteoarticular  infection  (osteomyelitis,  joint  prosthesis  infection  and  diabetic 
foot).    These  studies  used  microbiology/histology  confirmation  from  a  biopsy/surgical  sample  or 
clinical follow-up for at least 5-6 months as standard of truth.  The estimated sensitivity and specificity 
results are shown in Table 26.  However, these meta-analyses suffer from potential major biases and 
can only be considered supportive. 
Table 26 
Meta-analyses (weighted sensitivity and specificity with 95% CI) 
Procedure 
(99mTc)-besilesomab 
LeukoScan 
99mTc-WBCs 
MRI 
Weighted sensitivity (%)  Weighted specificity (%) 
89.5 (83.7, 95.2) 
85.2 (79.6, 90.8) 
90.7 (85.9, 95.3) 
94.1 (89.5, 98.8) 
80.8 (74.2, 87.4) 
82.4 (75.3, 89.6) 
91.3 (84.8, 97.8) 
83.8 (74.9, 92.6) 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
There  were  no  specific  clinical  studies  submitted  to  evaluate  the  performance  of  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab in patients with impaired renal function or impaired hepatic function.   
During the clinical development only 6 children were recruited in clinical trials (Study BI 71.015). A 
publication describing a series of 30 children with fever of unknown origin is available.  
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Several clinical studies were submitted as part of the initial application: Study BI 71015, Study 7D-
201SZ-A  and  Study  7MN-301SZ-A.    They  were  all  conducted  with  the  product  manufactured 
according to the old process and enrolled patients in a multiplicity of indications, most of which were 
withdrawn by the applicant during this procedure.  These studies applied the standards of more than 10 
years  ago  and  were  considered  by  the  CHMP  as  “seriously  methodologically  flawed,  rendering  the 
results to be of poor quality” (Withdrawal Public Assessment Report, 28 June 2006).  Therefore, they 
were  not  considered  supportive  of  the  diagnostic  performance  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  in 
the current application. 
clinical 
Literature support for efficacy 
The 
on 
report 
osteomyelitis1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13  diabetic  foot14,  inflammatory  bowel  disease15,16,17,18,  fever  of 
unknown origin19,20,21, endocarditis22,23 and bone marrow metastasis24,25,26,27,28.  
literature 
includes 
efficacy 
expert 
from 
data 
also 
on 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  analytical  methods,  the  statistical  aspects  and  the  number  of  patients  assessed  for  the  PK 
measurements appear acceptable. Since all the subjects in the PK studies were patients suffering from 
an  inflammatory  process,  it  is  reasonable  to  consider  that  the  results  would  be  representative  of  a 
population  with  the  target  indication.  The  parameters  for  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  plasma 
concentration showed large standard deviations and this wide inter-individual variability in results was 
discussed.  The parallel arm design for PK measurements was acceptable in order to avoid repeated 
administration of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab in the same individual, increasing the risk of HAMA 
formation. This design implies that there may be a degree of inter-individual variance in addition to 
intra-individual variance, reflecting the broad standard deviations. There were no notable differences 
between  the  2  doses  of  besilesomab  (0.25  mg  and  1.0  mg)  in  terms  of  half-life,  AUC,  volume  of 
distribution and clearance. 
In the population studied, about 15% of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine in 24 hours. It is 
considered that in patients with impaired renal function, this is not likely to pose a clinical problem. In 
addition,  liver  impairment  is  unlikely  to  affect  the  metabolism  and  elimination  in  a  clinically 
significant manner. The issues are adequately covered in the SPC in section 4.2 
Page 31 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
The pivotal study, AG-PH3, was a comparative study with leukocytes labelled with technetium (99mTc) 
exametazime.    The  selected  comparator  was  considered  appropriate  and  reflects  current  medical 
practice.  Recruited  patients  in  the  pivotal  study  presented  with  peripheral  osteomyelitis  but  very 
heterogeneous in nature.  A major deficiency identified in the pivotal trial AG-PH3 was the lack of an 
adequate  standard  of  truth  or  surrogate,  as  recommended  in  the  guideline  CPMP/EWP/1119/98. 
Therefore,  diagnostic  parameters  like  sensitivity  and  specificity  could  not  be  calculated  and  only 
technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  has 
agreement  rate  could  be  estimated.  Considering 
characteristics  very  similar  to  existing  agents,  it  is  acceptable  to  consider  the  agreement  rate  as  a 
suitable alternative endpoint if thoroughly justified. The CHMP noted the justification for not having 
bone biopsies as standard of truth as this may not have been feasible. 
that 
Using  the  pre-specified  non-inferiority  margin  defined  in  the  trial  protocol,  the  trial  met  its  primary 
objective where all the lower bounds of the 95% CIs for the various agreement rates, whether average 
or  per  reader,  were  above  the  prespecified  70%  lower  limit.  However,  this  lower  limit  was  defined 
based  on  assumptions  regarding  patient  recruitment  and  overall  feasibility  of  the  trial  rather  than 
clinical  relevance.  The  overall  results  were  better  when  a  4th  reader  matched  the  affected  regions 
identified  by  the  readers  (primary  analysis)  than  when  the  analysis  was  performed  on  the  readings 
without this adjudication.  It is considered that the analysis without adjudication is the most relevant 
although  it  produced  slightly  lower  agreement  rates.    The  supplementary  analysis  based  on  all 
completely imaged body regions only added negative readings (for all readers) to the previous analysis 
which  increased  all  agreement  rates.  Regarding  the  agreement  rates  by  body  region,  the  best 
agreement  rates  were  considered  those  based  on  the  smallest  number  of  clusters  (leg,  ankle,  elbow) 
whereas  the  worst  agreement  rate  was  exhibited  for  the  knee,  the  largest  cluster.  The  applicant 
provided further discussion on the discordant findings, which did not follow the guidance document 
on radiopharmaceuticals (CPMP/EWP/1119/98) but was eventually considered acceptable although it 
was not possible to draw any unbiased conclusion with respect to the comparator. 
As a secondary endpoint, the final diagnosis of the investigator was used as standard of reference to 
establish  the  agreement  rate  and  diagnostic  performance  of  technetium  (99mTc)  exametazime  and 
technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab.    It  is  of  note  that  the  clinical  and  imaging  data  available  for  the 
investigator  were  not  standardised  in  all  patients  and  not  independent  of  the  evaluated  imaging 
procedures. 
The  lack  of  standard  of  truth  in  the  AG-PH3  trial  was  addressed  in  a  post-hoc  analysis  based  on  a 
surrogate, which was an evaluation by an expert panel of all data available from the study CRFs plus 
all  additional  data  available  from  the  investigators.    This  expert  panel  did  not  have  access  to  the 
imaging results with technetium (99mTc) besilesomab and 99mTc WBCs.  This approach is based on the 
CHMP  guideline:  “…  a  surrogate  standard  of  truth,  such  as  an  appropriate  combination  of  tests, 
clinical data, repeat testing and clinical follow-up may be used to provide a good approximation of the 
disease state.” This approach has obvious limitations since the surrogate was not defined prospectively 
and  additional  data  were  not  available  for  all  patients.  In  spite  of  these  intrinsic  weaknesses,  the 
CHMP noted that the various analyses (pivotal trial and meta-analyses) provided a consistent pattern 
of  results  for  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  and  the  comparator  99mTc  WBCs  which,  even  if  the 
absolute  numbers  were  slightly  different,  suggested  similar  (or  slightly  higher)  sensitivity  for 
technetium (99mTc) besilesomab at the expense of a lower specificity. The CHMP expressed concern 
over this loss of specificity as in the context of its potential clinical use in osteomyelitis, specificity is 
an  important  endpoint.  Therefore,  the  issue  was  whether  this  loss  of  specificity  outweighed  the 
advantages  of  the  method,  i.e.  simpler  and  safer  for  the  patient  and  health  care  professional.    In 
addition,  there  were  no  adequate  data  showing  the  impact  of  the  specificity  of  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab on diagnostic thinking and patient management.  The CHMP acknowledged that a lower 
specificity  could  be  acceptable  if  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  would  be  used  not  as  a  sole 
technique but in conjunction with other imaging modalities to determine the appropriate diagnosis.  To 
resolve the issue, the applicant committed to perform a randomised parallel-group trial in the approved 
indication,  the  primary  objective  of  which  would  be  to  evaluate  the  impact  of  technetium  (99mTc)-
besilesomab on diagnostic thinking and patient management in clinical practice and in comparison to 
an acceptable comparator. 
Page 32 of 48  
 
 
 
The literature meta-analysis submitted was only considered supportive given its potential major biases.  
The evidence submitted for the indication of scintigraphic imaging of bone marrow involvement for 
detection and extent of carcinoma metastasis was considered insufficient by the CHMP and therefore, 
the indication was withdrawn. In addition, the evidence submitted for the indication of scintigraphic 
imaging of diabetic foot infection was considered insufficient by the CHMP and therefore, Scintimun 
should not be used for the diagnosis of diabetic foot infection (see SPC section 4.1).  
No prospective dose-response studies have been performed for the requested indications of technetium 
(99mTc)  besilesomab.    However,  the  amount  of  antibody  administered  is  driven  by  the  radioactivity 
which is necessary to achieve the expected diagnosis. As a result the amount of antibody administered 
in  study  AG-PH3  ranged  from  0.27  to  0.96 mg  (0.60  mg  in  average),  which  was  considered 
acceptable.  The  proposed  optimal  timing  for  imaging  acquisition,  3-6  h  and  24  h,  was  considered 
acceptable. 
There  were  no  data  in  the  paediatric  population  apart  from  literature  which  is  not  relevant  to  the 
indication  of  osteomyelitis.  Thus,  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  is  not  recommended  for  use  in 
children below 18 years of age due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy (see SPC section 4.2, 5.1 
and 5.2). 
There  were  no  subanalyses  performed  in  the  inflammatory  situations  (eg.  acute  versus  chronic 
inflammation,  multifocal  osteomyelitis,  etc…)  likely  to  affect  diagnostic  performance  of  technetium 
(99mTc) besilesomab. The CHMP, after evaluating the responses to the D120 list of questions, sought 
the advice of the Scientific Advisory Group on Diagnostics (SAG-D) to further examine and discuss 
the  data  submitted  by  the  applicant  and  to  consider  the  evidence  presented  on  the  diagnostic 
performance  and  impact  on  diagnostic  thinking  and  therapeutic  decision  of  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab. Following the CHMP request, a SAG meeting was convened on the 7th September 2009 
to provide advice on the list of questions adopted at the June 2009 CHMP meeting. 
Based on the totality of the data presented by the applicant in the MAA, the SAG-D agreed that the 
diagnostic performance of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab could be considered as established for the 
following indication “scintigraphic imaging for determining the location of inflammation/infection in 
peripheral  bone  in  patients  with  suspected  osteomyelitis”.  The  SAG-D  suggested  deleting  the  term 
“joints” from the indication as it is considered that the pathophysiology of an inflammation reaction is 
different in the presence of an exogenous implant such as a joint prosthesis. 
There  were  slightly  divergent  positions  between  SAG-D  members  regarding  whether  the  product 
could  be  used  in  acute  or  chronic  osteomyelitis.  The  majority  of  the  SAG-D  considered  that 
technetium (99mTc) besilesomab could be used in both suspected chronic as well as acute osteomyelitis 
while  one  member  disagreed  and  commented  that  the  clinical  utility  of  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab in acute osteomyelitis was not fully justified in the data presented. 
The  SAG-D  were  unanimous  in  their  agreement  that  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  should  not  be 
used in diabetic foot infection as the product will not distinguish inflammation, in particular Charcot 
arthropathy,  infection  in  the  soft  tissues  and  infection  in  the  bone,  also  in  relation  with  the  limited 
resolution of scintigraphy vs. MRI or PET scan.  This distinction has important consequences on the 
management of the foot in diabetic patients. 
In addition to the answers to the CHMP questions, the SAG-D commented that the trial performed by 
the applicant, AG-PH3, was lacking in robustness and did not fulfil the requirements according to the 
guideline  “Points  to  consider  on  the  evaluation  of  diagnostic  agents”  (CPMP/EWP/1119/98).  The 
follow-up period of patients, which is considered standard practice in such trials, was not part of the 
trial protocol and was performed post-hoc at the request of the CHMP.  However, it was stated that 
additional data would not have affected the outcome of the results from the expert panel. The SAG-D 
supported  the  recommendation  of  an  additional  post-marketing  confirmatory  study  to  evaluate  the 
Page 33 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical relevance of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab in relation to the standard diagnostic work-up of 
the patient and the impact on diagnostic thinking and patient management.  
Finally, the SAG-D recognised that technetium (99mTc) besilesomab is a product which could be of a 
certain importance given the advantages already expressed in the assessment reports, i.e. that in vivo 
labelling  of  granulocytes  reduces  the  risk  of  misadministration  to  patients  of  exogenous  in  vitro 
labelled leucocytes and reduces the level of exposure of hospital technical personnel to radioactivity 
and  to  exogenous  blood.  This  could  be  especially  relevant  in  hospitals  across  Europe  with  small 
nuclear  medicine  centres  for  which  there  is  no  proper  facility  for  in  vitro  radioactive  labelling  of 
leucocytes.  
For all patients, the radiation exposure must be justifiable by the expected diagnostic achieved with the 
lowest possible radiation dose. For the elderly, no dose adjustment is required. Formal studies have not 
been  performed  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment.  However,  due  to  the  nature  of  the 
molecule and the short half-life of technetium (99mTc), dose adjustment was considered not necessary 
in such patients. 
This medicinal product should be reconstituted and radiolabelled before administration to the patient 
with  sodium  technetium (99mTc)  pertechnetate  to  obtain  a  clear  and  colourless  technetium (99mTc) 
besilesomab solution for injection. 
The radiolabelled solution should be administered intravenously as a single dose only. 
This  medicinal  product  should  be  administered  exclusively  by  authorised  personnel  (see  “General 
warnings” in the SPC section 4.4). 
For instructions for preparation of the radiopharmaceutical, see SPC section 12. 
For disposal and other handling, see SPC section 6.6.  
For patient preparation, see SPC section 4.4.  
Images  acquisition  should  start  3  to  6 hours  after  administration.  An  additional  acquisition  24  hours 
after initial injection is recommended. Acquisition can be performed using planar imaging.  
Scintimun should be given to sufficiently hydrated patients. In order to obtain images of best quality 
and to reduce the radiation exposure of the bladder, patients should be encouraged to drink sufficient 
amounts and to empty their bladder prior to and after the scintigraphic examination (see SPC section 
4.4). 
An  interval  of  at  least  2 days  must  be  observed  between  any  previous  scintigraphy  with  other 
technetium (99mTc)-labelled agents and administration of Scintimun.  
There  are  currently  no  criteria  to  distinguish  infection  and  inflammation  by  means  of  Scintimun 
imaging. Scintimun images should be interpreted in the context of other appropriate anatomical and/or 
functional imaging examinations (see SPC section 4.4).  
Only limited data is available about binding of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab to CarcinoEmbryonic 
Antigen  (CEA)  expressing  tumours  in  vivo.  In  vitro,  besilesomab  cross-reacts  with  CEA.  False 
positive findings in patients with CEA expressing tumours cannot be excluded. 
False  results  may  be  obtained  in  patients  with  diseases  involving  neutrophil  defects  and  in  patients 
with haematological malignancies including myeloma. 
Clinical safety 
Safety  data  for  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  include  adverse  events,  follow-up  of  vital  signs, 
laboratory parameters, HAMA from clinical trials and post marketing experience.  In addition, safety 
parameters include dosimetry. 
Page 34 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Patient exposure 
Since its marketing launch more than 15 years ago, around 100,000 patients have been administered 
technetium (99mTc) besilesomab without relevant safety concerns. It is estimated that more than 36,000 
patients have received the product manufactured according to the new process.  
During the clinical development of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab, over 1,170 patients were exposed 
to the original ‘old’ product in clinical trials. One hundred forty one (141) patients were exposed to the 
‘new’ commercial product. A summary of patient exposure is shown in Table 27.  
In the clinical trials, almost all patients received only a single dose of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab .  
The  observation  period  of  the  adverse  events  was  either  24  hours  or  30  days  after  the  injection, 
depending on the design of each study. 
Table 27 
Summary of patient exposure to technetium (99mTc) besilesomab in clinical trials 
Dosimetry 
Technetium (99mTc) is produced by means of a (99Mo/99mTc) generator and decays with the emission of 
gamma  radiation  with  a  mean  energy  of  140  keV  and  a  half-life  of  6.02  hours  to  technetium  (99Tc) 
which, in view of its long half-life of 2.13 x 105 years can be regarded as quasi stable. 
For each organ, or group of organs, the absorbed doses have been calculated using the methodology 
developed by the MIRD (Medical Internal Radiation Dose).  
Following  the  request  of  the  CHMP,  the  applicant  provided  a  new  report  using  the  updated 
recommendations of the ICRP (International Commission of Radiological Protection, Publication 103, 
2007) and the OLINDA software.  This computing environment included the recommendations of the 
MIRD  Committee  and  proposed  anthropomorphic  phantoms  that  model  several  situations,  including 
various  anatomical  stages  of  pregnancy.    Only  human  data  were  used.    The  dosimetry  results  are 
shown in Table 29. 
Page 35 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 28  
Values  of  the  absorbed  doses  calculated  for  the  individual  male  and  female  of 
reference 
Organ 
mSv/MBq 
Reference male 
2.36 E-03 
4.95 E-03 
4.50 E-03 
4.45 E-03 
1.00 E-02 
4.80 E-03 
2.42 E-02 
3.17 E-03 
Brain 
Heart 
Colon 
Stomach 
Liver 
Small Intestine 
Bone marrow (red) 
Muscles 
Ovaries 
Pancreas 
Skin 
Lungs 
Spleen 
Kidney 
Breast 
Adrenal 
Testis 
Thymus 
Thyroid 
Bone 
Uterus 
Gallbladder 
Bladder 
Whole body 
Effective Dose   8.63 E-03mSv / MBq 
7.59 E-03 
1.82 E-03 
3.51 E-03 
2.79 E-03 
1.77 E-02 
5.91 E-03 
3.05 E-03 
4.45 E-03 
6.90 E-03 
1.78 E-03 
1.25 E-02 
2.71 E-02 
2.10 E-02 
Reference female 
3.12 E-03 
5.97 E-03 
5.76 E-03 
5.35 E-03 
1.26 E-02 
5.75 E-03 
2.29 E-02 
3.91 E-03 
5.94 E-03 
8.26 E-03 
2.16 E-03 
1.60 E-02 
3.24 E-02 
2.34 E-02 
3.01 E-03 
9.37 E-03 
4.23 E-03 
3.21 E-03 
2.27 E-02 
5.01 E-03 
6.81 E-03 
3.80 E-03 
5.52 E-03 
The  effective  dose  as  defined  in  ICRP  103  was  estimated  at  8.63x10-3  mSv  per  MBq  of  technetium 
(99mTc)  besilesomab  administered.    In  an  adult,  this  examination  would  cause  low  to  moderate 
exposure of a few mSv (6.9 mSv for 800 MBq administered).  This is in the range of other diagnostic 
nuclear  medicine  techniques,  e.g.  LeukoScan  (6-9  mSv),  but  more  than  Ceretec  (~3  mSv).  This 
exposure  is  not  considered  to  constitute  a  safety  concern  except  in  pregnancy,  which  is  a 
contraindication.   
For all patients, the radiation exposure must be justifiable by the expected diagnostic achieved with the 
lowest  possible  radiation  dose.  Exposure  to  ionising  radiation  is  linked  with  cancer  induction  and  a 
potential  for  development  of  hereditary  defects.  For  diagnostic  nuclear  medicine  investigations  the 
frequency of these adverse reactions is not known. 
•  Adverse events  
Overall, few adverse events were reported in the clinical trials. They are summarised in Table 29. 
The most frequent adverse events (AEs) were related to the underlying disease, e.g. fever (18 cases), 
purulent  discharge,  arthritis,  osteomyelitis  or  worsening  of  osteomyelitis,  erysipela  with  dermatitis, 
surgical operations in the clinical studies for suspected infection of peripheral bones or joints. 
The  most  other  frequent  AEs  were  cardiovascular  events:  myocardial  infarction  (3),  cardiovascular 
failure (2), circulatory collapse (1), thrombophlebitis (1), pulmonary embolism (1), arterial occlusive 
disease  (4).    Other  significant  AEs  were  GI  haemorrhages  (3)  and  angioedema  (1).    The  events  of 
fever,  hypertension,  and  abnormal  laboratory  tests  were  retrospectively  identified  by  the  applicant 
based on vital signs and lab test results. 
Page 36 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 29 
Summary of adverse events in clinical trials with technetium (99mTc)-besilesomab 
   Erratum: in study 7D-201SZ-A, there were 11 fevers (and not 2) 
Only  two  non-serious  adverse  events  were  considered  by  the  investigator  as  possibly  related  to 
technetium (99mTc)-besilesomab: mild cardiovascular collapse (BP fall to 90/60) and mild tenderness 
of the thigh in the region of osteomyelitis. 
The intensity of all non-serious AEs were graded by the investigator as mild or moderate except for 
increase  of  C-Reactive  Protein  (CRP)  (Study  AG-PH3)  and  hypothermia  of  the  right  leg  due  to 
Page 37 of 48  
 
 
 
occlusive  arterial  disease  (Study  7D-201SZ-A)  which  were  considered  mild  to  severe.  Both  these 
adverse reactions were considered unrelated to the study drug. 
A non interventional safety survey was conducted between April 2007 and July 2009 (SG-NISS) and 
its final results submitted during the procedure.  A prospective cohort of 1112 subjects suspected of 
inflammation/infection  were  administered  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  in  the  Czech  Republic, 
Hungary, and Austria while 966 subjects received any another radiopharmaceutical used for the same 
indication (mostly 111In-WBCs, 67Ga, diphosphonates, 99mTc- WBCs) in France and Austria. 
Of  the  966  patients  included  in  the  control  arm,  119  patients  (12.3  %)  reported  at  least  one  adverse 
event  with  a 
injected 
total  of  171  adverse  events;  61  were  considered  related 
radiopharmaceutical and affected 49 patients.  The events most frequently reported were feeling hot, 
nausea, headache, and paresthesia. 
the 
to 
Of the 1112 patients that received technetium (99mTc) besilesomab, 31 patients (2.8%) reported at least 
one  adverse  event  with  a  total  61  adverse  events;  12  were  considered  related  to  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab  and affected 6 patients, who all recovered: 
• 
anaphylactic  reaction  with  nausea,  vomiting,  eyelid  oedema,  hypotension,  and  circulatory 
collapse (1) 
anaphylactoid reaction with nausea, vertigo, discomfort (1) 
• 
•  periorbital oedema (1) 
•  urticaria (1) 
• 
arthralgia (1) 
•  myalgia (1) 
These data are consistent with the clinical data otherwise collected and have been used, with the data 
from the pivotal clinical trial AG-PH3, as the basis of section 4.8 of the SPC. 
•  Deaths 
Overall,  there  were  9  deaths  reported  but  none  of  the  deaths  were  attributed  to  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab  administration.    The  causes  were  cancer  (3),  myocardial  infarction  (3),  cardiovascular 
failure (2) and peritonitis with gastrointestinal haemorrhage (1). 
•  Laboratory findings 
Laboratory tests were performed in some of the trials including study AG-PH3.   
Immunogenicity 
In the early clinical studies (71.015, 7D101 SZ-A, 7D-201 SZ-A, 7MN-301 SZ-A, 7MN-302 SZ-A) 
determination of HAMA was performed using the “Enzygnost HAMA micro” enzyme assay supplied 
by  Behringwerke,  Marburg,  Germany  but  were  not  always  performed  systematically.    The  overall 
percentage of positive HAMA samples was less than 5%. 
In  the  recent  clinical  studies  (AG-NP,  306340,  AG-PH3)  determination  of  HAMA  was  performed 
using  the  “HAMA-ELISA  medac”  test  supplied  by  Medac,  Wedel,  Germany  which  detects  IgG 
antibodies.    HAMA  concentrations  higher  than  40  μg/L  were  reported  as  positive.    The  overall 
percentage  of  positive  HAMA  samples  in  these  studies  was  13%.    In  the  new  phase  III  study  (AG-
PH3),  blood  samples  were  collected  at  screening  and  twice  after  treatment  (1  and  3  months).    Only 
patients with negative HAMA test at screening were included in the study.  Of the 116 patients who 
had  at  least  one  HAMA  assessment  after  administration  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab,  16 
patients (14%) showed positive HAMA levels.  Seropositivity was observed at 1 month in 13 patients 
and at 3 months in 3 patients.  Of the 13 patients who were positive at 1 month, 3 had no assessment at 
3  months,  6  became  negative,  and  4  remained  positive  with  increasing  values  in  2  patients  and 
decreasing values in the other 2 patients.   
Page 38 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety in special populations 
Children 
A  retrospective  analysis  of  a  series  of  30  children  with  fever  of  unknown  origin  is  available  as  a 
publication22. Dosage was performed according to the recommendations of the Paediatric Task Group 
of the European Association of Nuclear Medicine; the children received between 100 and 150 μg of 
the antibody labelled with 185-259 MBq of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab.  The publication does not 
mention any safety concern. 
Women of childbearing potential 
When it is necessary to administer radioactive medicinal products to women of childbearing potential, 
information should always be sought about pregnancy. Any woman who has missed a period should 
be  assumed  to  be  pregnant  until  proven  otherwise.  Where  uncertainty  exists,  it  is  important  that 
radiation exposure should be the minimum consistent with achieving the desired clinical information. 
Alternative techniques which do not involve ionising radiation should be considered. 
Pregnancy  
Scintimun is contraindicated in pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Available data is insufficient to address the effects of the product during pregnancy. No reproductive 
studies have been carried out in animals. Radionuclide procedures carried out on pregnant women also 
involve radiation doses to the fetus. 
The dose delivered to the fetus varies with the stage of pregnancy and is reported in the following 
table: 
Stage of pregnancy 
Three months 
Six months 
Nine months 
Equivalent dose in mSv/MBq 
0.00379 
0.00335 
0.00300 
Breastfeeding  
It  is  not  known  if  the  product  is  excreted  in  human  milk.  A  risk  to  a  breast-fed  child  cannot  be 
excluded. 
Before administering a radioactive medicinal product to a mother who is breast-feeding, consideration 
should  be  given  as  to  whether  the  investigation  could  reasonably  be  delayed  until  the  mother  has 
ceased breast-feeding and as to whether the most appropriate choice of radiopharmaceutical has been 
made,  bearing  in  mind  the  secretion  of  activity  in  breast  milk.  If  the  administration  is  considered 
necessary, breast-feeding should be interrupted for three days and the expressed milk discarded. These 
three  days  correspond  to  10  half-lives  of  technetium  (99mTc)  (60  hours).  At  that  time  the  remaining 
activity represents about 1/1000 of the initial activity in the body.  
A close contact with the child should also be avoided during the first 12 hours after the injection. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Active substances which inhibit inflammation or affect the haematopoietic system (such as antibiotics 
and  corticosteroids)  may  lead  to  false  negative  results.  Such  substances  should  therefore  not  be 
administered together with, or a short time before the injection of Scintimun. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Over  the  period  1996-2002,  21,023  kits  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  (old  product)  were  sold 
worldwide, which is assumed to correspond approximately to 63,000 patients exposed to technetium 
(99mTc) besilesomab.  Three spontaneous ADRs were reported: one anaphylactoid reaction (sneezing, 
facial swelling and breathing difficulties), one death with limited information (pulmonary oedema and 
acute respiratory insufficiency during an hospitalisation for necrosis of the toe) and one cardiac arrest 
with respiratory insufficiency 10 minutes after an injection of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab.  
Over the period 2002-2008, it is estimated that 36,610 patients were administered technetium (99mTc) 
besilesomab (new product).  During this period, three SAEs were reported in three patients: a stroke 
Page 39 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
one  day  post-injection  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  injection  and  two  deaths  from  sepsis,  all 
attributed to the underlying disease.  One non-serious cutaneous reaction was also reported. 
in  clinical 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
There is sufficient exposure of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab to single administration of the old and 
trials  and  supplemented  with  substantial  post-marketing  data/non 
new  product 
interventional  survey  to  assess  the  safety  profile  of  technetium  (99mTc)-besilesomab.  In  general, 
technetium (99mTc) besilesomab appears to be well tolerated with few reported AEs. The most serious 
and fatal events reported were related to the underlying diseases, post-operative complications and/or 
cardiovascular history of the patients, with no indication of a causal relationship to the radiotracer.   
There were some cases of hypersensitivity reactions that have been reported both in clinical trials and 
in  post-marketing  experience  although  allergic  reactions  appear  to  be  rare.  However,  acute  blood 
pressure  declines  occurring  shortly  after  the  injection  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  were 
observed  in  several  patients,  including  three  in  the  AG-PH3  trial;  whether  mediated  by 
hypersensitivity  mechanisms  or  independently  of  them,  the  causal  role  of  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab in this phenomenon could not be ruled out. 
As  shown  in  the  recent  clinical  trials,  there  is  a  significant  risk  of  development  of  HAMAs  to 
besilesomab;  the  higher  rate  of  development  of  HAMAs  in  the  new  studies  compared  with  the  old 
studies is likely due to higher sensitivity of the quantitative “HAMA-ELISA medac” test used in the 
new  studies.  However,  this  rate  is  consistent  with  literature  data  after  a  single  injection  of  murine 
antibody.  In  line  with  the  clinical  trials,  a  screening  for  HAMA  should  be  performed  before  any 
administration  of  besilesomab  and  a  positive  test  is  regarded  as  a  contraindication  (see  SPC  section 
4.3). Likewise, repeated administration is not recommended as immunogenicity is an issue, which has 
been reflected in the SPC section 4.4. The safety issue associated with hypersensitivity reactions, acute 
hypotension and immunogenicity are adequately addressed in the RMP and in the Direct Healthcare 
Professional Communication (DHPC) letter. 
The  laboratory  parameters  (haematology  and  coagulation)  do  not  appear  to  be  affected  by  the 
administration of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab since no clinically relevant findings were observed. 
The information on the safety profile in children is limited, thus no conclusion can be drawn from the 
information.  The  use  of  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  in  children  is  not  recommended  and  this  is 
included in the SPC section 4.2.  
Taking  into  account  the  data  of  equivalent  dose  to  the  fetus  at  different  stages  of  pregnancy,  the 
exposure would be higher than the limit of 1 mSv if the recommended posology of technetium (99mTc) 
besilesomab for a pregnant woman is higher than 264 to 334 MBq.  Therefore, the use in pregnancy is 
contraindicated (see SPC section 4.6) 
Technetium (99mTc) besilesomab is contraindicated in patients who have hypersensitivity to the active 
substance,  to  other  murine  antibodies  or  to  any  of  the  excipients,  have  a  positive  screening  test  for 
human anti-mouse antibody (HAMA) and in pregnancy (see SPC 4.3 and section 4.6). 
References 
1  Boubaker  A,  Bischof-Delaloye  A,  Blanc  CH,  Dutoit  M,  Leyvraz  PF,  Delaloye  B.  Immunoscintigraphy  with 
antigranulocyte monoclonal antibodies for the diagnosis of septic loosening of hip prostheses. Eur J Nucl Med 
1995; 22 (2): 139-147 
2 Gallowitsch HJ, Heinisch M, Mikosch P, Kresnik E, Kumnig G, Gomez I, Lind P; Tc-99m ciprofloxacin in 
clinically  selected  patients  suspected  for  peripherial  osteomyelitis,  spondylodiscitis  and  fever  of  unknown 
origin: preliminary results. Nuklearmedizin 2002; 41:30-6. 
3 Gratz S, Braun HG, Behr TM, Meller J, Herrmann A, Conrad M, Rathmann D, Bertagnoli R, Willert HG, 
Becker W. Photopenia in Chronic Vertebral Osteomyelitis with Technetium-99m-Antigranulocyte Antibody 
(BW 250/183). J Nucl Med 1997; 38 (2): 211-6 
Page 40 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4  Guhlmann  A,  Brecht-Krauss  D,  Suger  G,  Glatting  G,  Kotzerke  J,  Kinzl  L,  Reske  SN.  Fluorine-18-FDG 
PET  and  Technetium-99m  Antigranulocyte  Antibody  Scintigraphy  in  Chronic  Osteomyelitis.  J  Nucl  Med 
1998; 39 (12): 2145-52 
5 Horger M, Eschmann SM, Pfannenberg C, Storek D, Dammann F, Vonthein R, Claussen CD, Bares R. The 
value of SPET/CT in chronic osteomyelitis. Eur. J. Nucl. Med. Mol. Imaging 2003, 30:1665-73. 
6 Hotze AL, Briele B, Overbeck B, Kropp J, Gruenwald F, Mekkawy MA, von Smekal A, et al. Technetium-
99m-Labeled Anti-Granulocyte Antibodies in Suspected Bone Infections. J Nucl Med 1992; 33: 526-531 
7 Kaim A, Ledermann HP, Bongartz G, Messmer P, Müller-Brand J, Steinbrich W. Chronic post-traumatic 
osteomyelitis  of  the  lower  extremity:  comparison  of  magnetic  resonance  imaging  and  combined  bone 
scintigraphy/immunoscintigraphy  with  radiolabelled  monoclonal  antigranulocyte  antibodies.  Skeletal 
Radiol. 2000; 29:378-386. 
8  Klett  R,  Kordelle  J,  Stahl  U,  Khalisi  A,  Puille  M,  Steiner  D,  Bauer  R.  Immunoscintigraphy  of  septic 
loosening of knee endoprosthesis : a retrospective evaluation of the antigranulocyte antibody BW250/183. 
Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging 2003; 30:1463-66. 
9  Kordelle  J,  Klett  R,  Stahl  U,  Hossain  H,  schleicher  I,  Haas  H.  Infektdiagnostik  nach  Knie-TEP-
Implantation. Z. Orthop. 2004:142:337-343. 
10 Kroiss A, Böck F, Perneczky G, Auinger C, Weidlich G, Kleinpeter G, Brenner H. [Immunoscintigraphy 
for  detection  of  inflammatory  processes  in  diseases  of  bones  and  joints].  Immunszintigraphie  zur 
Aufdeckung  von  Entzündungsherden  bei  Knochen-  und  Gelenkserkrankungen.  Wiener  Klin  Wochenschr 
1990; 102: 713-717 
11  Peltier  P,  Potel  G,  Lovat  E,  Baron  D,  Chatal  JF.  Detection  of  lung  and  bone  infection  with  anti-
granulocyte  monoclonal antibody BW 250/183 radiolabelled with  99Tcm. Nucl Med Comm 1993; 14: 766-
774 
12  Reuland  P,  Winker  KH,  Heuchert  T,  Ruck  P,  Müller-Schauenburg  W,  Weller  S,  Feine  U.  Detection  of 
Infection  in  Postoperative  Orthopedic  Patients  with  Technetium-99m-Labeled  Monoclonal  Antibodies 
against Granulocytes. J Nucl Med 1991; 32: 2209-2214 
13 Sciuk J, Brandau W, Vollet B, Stücker R, Erlemann R, Bartenstein P, Peters PE, Schober O. Technetium-
99m  polyclonal  human  immunoglobulin  and  technetium-99m  monoclonal  antibodies  for  imaging  chronic 
osteomyelitis. Eur J Nucl Med 1991;18:401-407 
14 Dominguez-Gadea L, Martin-Curto LM, de la Calle H, Crespo A. Diabetic foot infections: scintigraphic 
evaluation with 99Tcm-labelled anti-granulocyte antibodies. Nucl Med Comm 1993; 14: 212-218 
15 Almers S, Granerus G, Franzén L, Ström M. Technetium-99m scintigraphy: more accurate assessment of 
ulcerative  colitis  with  exametazime-labelled  leucocytes  than  with  antigranulocyte  antibodies.  Eur  J  Nucl 
Med 1996; 23 (3): 247-55 
16  Papós  M,  Nagy  F,  Nárai  G,  Rajtár  M,  Szántai  G,  Láng  J,  Csernay  L.  Anti-granulocyte 
Immunoscintigraphy  and  [99mTc]Hexamethylpropyleneamine-Oxime-Labeled  Leukocyte  Scintigraphy  in 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease. Dig Dis Sci 1996; 41 (2): 412-20 
17  Segarra  I,  Roca  M,  Baliellas  C,  Vilar  L,  Ricart  Y,  Mora  J,  Puchal  R,  Martin-Comin  J.  Granulocyte-
specific  monoclonal  antibody  technetium-99m-BW  250/183  and  indium-111  oxine-labelled  leucocyte 
scintigraphy in inflammatory bowel disease. Eur J Nucl Med 1991; 18: 715-719 
18 Tarján Z, Tóth G, Györke T, Mester A, Karlinger K, Makó EK. Ultrasound in Crohn's disease of the small 
bowel. Eur J Radiol 2000; 35 (3): 176-182 
19 Becker W, Dölkemeyer U, Gramatzki M, Schneider MU, Scheele J, Wolf F. Use of immunoscintigraphy 
in the diagnosis of fever of unknown origin. Eur J Nucl Med 1993; 20 (11): 1078-1083 
20 Meller J, Ivancevic V, Conrad M, Gratz S, Munz DL, Becker W. Clinical Value of Immunoscintigraphy in 
Patients with Fever of Unknown Origin. J Nucl Med 1998; 39 (7): 1248-53 
Page 41 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21  Gratz  S,  Behr  TM,  Herrmann  A,  Meller  J,  Conrad  M,  Zappel  H,  Becker  W.  Immunoscintigraphy  (BW 
250/183) in neonates and infants with fever of unknown origin. Nucl Med Commun 1998; 19 (11): 1037-45 
22 Morguet AJ, Munz DL, Ivančević V, Werner GS, Kreuzer H. [Clinical value of radioimaging using the 
murine monoclonal antigranulocyte antibody BW 250/183 in the diagnosis of prosthesic-valve endocarditis].  
Klinische  Bedeutung  der  Szintigraphie  mit  dem  murinen  monoklonalen  Antigranulozyten-Antikörper  BW 
250/183 für die Diagnose der Prothesenendokarditis. Dtsch med Wschr 1995; 120 (24): 861-6 
23  Morguet  AJ,  Munz  DL,  Ivančević  V,  Werner  GS,  Sandrock  D,  Bökemeier  M,  Kreuzer  H. 
Immunoscintigraphy  Using  Technetium-99m-Labeled  Anti-NCA-95  Antigranulocyte  Antibodies  as  an 
Adjunct  to  Echocardiography  in  Subacute  Infective  Endocarditis.  J  Am  Coll  Cardiol  1994;  23  (5):  1171-
1178 
24  Duncker  CM,  Carrió  I,  Berná  L,  Estorch  M,  Alonso  C,  Ojeda  B,  Blanco  R,  Germá  JR,  Ortega  V. 
Radioimmune Imaging of Bone Marrow in Patients with Suspected Bone Metastases from Primary Breast 
Cancer. J Nucl Med 1990; 31: 1450-1455 (Comment in: J Nucl Med 1991; 32: 549-51) 
25  Prior  JO,  Barghouth  G,  Delaloye  JF,  Leyvraz  S,  Bischof  Delaloye  A.  The  value  of  bone  marrow 
scintigraphy  using  99mTc  monoclonal  antigranulocyte  antibodies  in  complement  to  bone  scintigraphy  in 
detecting bone metastases from primary breast cancer. Nucl Med Comm 2003; 24:29-36 
26  Reske  SN,  Glöckner  WM,  Schwarz  A,  Karstens  JH,  Steinstrasser  A,  Ammon  J,  Büll  U. 
Radioimmunoimaging for diagnosis of bone marrow involvement in breast cancer and malignant lymphoma. 
Lancet 1989; Feb 11: 299-301 
27  Reske  SN,  Karstens  JH,  Henrich  MM,  Sohn  M,  Glöckner  W,  Jakse  G,  Büll  U.    [Detection  of  skeletal 
involvement  in  malignant  disease  by  immunoscintigraphy  of  bone  marrow].    Nachweis  des  Skelettbefalls 
maligner Erkrankungen durch Immunszintigraphie des Knochenmarks. Nuklearmedizin 1993; 32: 111-119 
28  Sohn  SK,  Ahn  BC,  Lee  SW,  Kim  DH,  Chun  KA,  Kim  JG,  Park  SH,  et  al.  Bone  marrow 
immunoscintigraphy using technetium-99m anti-granulocyte antibody in multiple myeloma. Eur J Nucl Med 
2002; 29:591-596 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table 30 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern: 
Important potential risks 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Possible consequences 
of HAMA positivity 
1.Routine Pharmacovigilance 
2.Dear Doctor Letter 
Dear Doctor Letter to be sent to all 
nuclear medicine specialists including a 
warning of the potential risks of human 
anti-mouse antibody (HAMA) generation 
Contraindication in  Section 4.3 of the 
SPC:  
Contraindications: Positive screening test 
for human anti-mouse antibody (HAMA) 
Page 42 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings in Section 4.4 of the SPC :  
Administration  of  murine  monoclonal 
antibodies can lead to the development of 
Human  Anti-Mouse  Antibodies  (HAMA). 
Patients  who  are  HAMA  positive  may 
have  a  greater  risk  for  hypersensitivity 
reactions.  Inquiry  on  possible  previous 
to  murine  monoclonal 
exposure 
antibodies  and  a  HAMA  test  should  be 
made 
of 
Scintimun;  a  positive  response  would 
the  administration  of 
contraindicate 
Scintimun (see section 4.3). 
administration 
prior 
to 
Radiation exposure 
during pregnancy 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
“Scintimun should only be used once in a 
patient’s lifetime”. 
Labelled in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Contraindication in section 4.3 of the 
SPC of use during pregnancy 
Warning in section 4.6 of the SPC that  
“When it is necessary to administer 
radioactive medicinal products to women 
of childbearing potential, information 
should always be sought about 
pregnancy. Any woman who has missed a 
period should be assumed to be pregnant 
until proven otherwise. Where 
uncertainty exists, it is important that 
radiation exposure should be the 
minimum consistent with achieving the 
desired clinical information. Alternative 
techniques which do not involve ionising 
radiation should be considered”. 
“Scintimun is contraindicated in 
pregnancy. Available data are insufficient 
to address the effects of the product 
during pregnancy. No reproductive 
studies have been carried out in animals. 
Radionuclide procedures carried out on 
pregnant women also involve radiation 
doses to the foetus.” 
 Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC that  
“For  all  patients,  the  radiation  exposure 
the  expected 
must  be 
lowest 
diagnostic  achieved  with 
possible radiation dose.” 
 Information in section 4.8 of the SPC: 
“For  all  patients,  the  radiation  exposure 
the  expected 
must  be 
diagnostic  achieved  with 
lowest 
possible  radiation  dose.”    Exposure  to 
ionising  radiation  is  linked  with  cancer 
justifiable  by 
justifiable  by 
the 
the 
Carcinogenicity / 
hereditary defects 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Page 43 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acute hypotension 
1.Routine Pharmacovigilance 
2.Reporting to EMEA of cases 
(regardless of seriousness) 
within 15 days  
Missing lesions 
1.Routine Pharmacovigilance 
2. Reporting to EMEA of 
cases (regardless of 
seriousness) within 15 days 
investigations 
induction and a potential for development 
of  hereditary  defects.  For  diagnostic 
nuclear  medicine 
the 
frequency  of  these  adverse  reactions  is 
not  known.  After  administration  of  the 
recommended  activity  of 
maximum 
technetium 
of 
800 MBq,  the  effective  dose  is  about 
6.9 mSv.  
Dear Doctor Letter to be sent to all 
nuclear medicine specialists including a 
warning of the risks of acute hypotension 
besilesomab 
(99mTc) 
Warning  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  that 
cardiopulmonary 
Appropriate 
trained 
resuscitation 
personnel 
for 
immediate use in the event of an adverse 
reaction. 
facilities 
should  be 
and 
available 
Labelled in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC 
regarding the interpretation of Scintium 
imaging 
There  are  currently  no  criteria 
to 
distinguish infection and inflammation by 
means  of  Scintimun  imaging.  Scintimun 
images  should  be 
the 
context  of  other  appropriate  anatomical 
and/or functional imaging examinations.  
interpreted 
in 
to 
of 
technetium 
Only  limited  data  is  available  about 
(99mTc) 
binding 
CarcinoEmbryonic 
besilesomab 
Antigen  (CEA)  expressing  tumours  in 
vivo.  In  vitro,  besilesomab  cross-reacts 
with  CEA.  False  positive  findings  in 
patients  with  CEA  expressing  tumours 
cannot be excluded. 
Administration errors 
due to mixing up the 
vials 
1.Routine Pharmacovigilance 
2. Reporting to EMEA of 
cases (regardless of 
seriousness) within 15 days 
Repeat use 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Page 44 of 48  
False  results  may  be  obtained  in  patients 
with diseases involving neutrophil defects 
and 
to  patients  with  haematological 
malignancies including myeloma. 
Information in section 4.2 of the SPC  
The following sentence will be printed on 
the carton box label: “Reconstitute 
Scintimun with its solvent first and then 
radiolabel with a sodium pertechnetate 
(99mTc) solution. Read the leaflet for 
further information before use.” 
Warning in section 4.4 - Special warnings 
and precaution of use – Re-
administration:  
“Data on repeated dosing of Scintimun 
are very limited. Scintimun should only 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety and efficacy of 
Scintimun in patients 
under the age of 18 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Use in patients with 
liver or renal 
impairment 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
be used once in a patient’s lifetime”. 
Information in Section 4.2 - Posology and 
method of administration that:  
Scintimun is not recommended for use in 
children below age 18 due to insufficient 
data on safety and efficacy 
Information in Section 4.2 - Posology and 
method of administration): “Formal 
studies have not been performed in 
patients with renal or liver impairment. 
However, due to the nature of the 
molecule and the short half-life of 
technetium (99mTc) besilesomab, dosage 
adjustment is not necessary in such 
patients”. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the risk 
minimisation activities  described in the above table are necessary for the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product.  
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance  are  adequately 
described,  controlled  and  validated.  The  drug  substance  is  well  characterised  with  regard  to  its 
physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics,  using  state-of  the-art  methods,  and  appropriate 
specifications are set. The manufacturing process of the drug product has been satisfactorily described 
and  validated.  The  quality  of  the  drug  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test  methods  and 
specifications.  Viral  safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents  including  TSE  have 
been  sufficiently  assured.  Except  for  a  number  of  points,  which  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-
approval follow-up measures, the overall Quality of Scintimun is considered acceptable. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Whole  blood  concentration-time  radioactivity  curves  show  a  two-phase  course,  which  can  be 
subdivided  into  an  early  phase  (0-2 h)  and  a  late  phase  (5-24 h).  After  correcting  for  the  decay  of 
radionuclide, the calculated half-life of the early phase is 0.5 h whereas the late phase shows a half-life 
of elimination of 16 h. 
Six  hours  after  injection,  about  1.5%  of  the  whole  body  radioactivity  is  found  in  the  liver  whereas 
about 3.0% is found in the spleen. Twenty-four hours after injection, the percentages of radioactivity 
are 1.6% in the liver and 2.3% in the spleen. 
Measurement  of  radioactivity  levels  in  urine  shows  that  up  to  14%  of  the  administered  activity  is 
excreted via the bladder during the 24 h post-injection. The low renal clearance of activity (0.2 l/h for 
a glomerular filtration rate around 7 l/h) indicates that the kidney is not the major route of besilesomab 
elimination. 
Non pathological unusual accumulations may be observed in the spleen (up to 6% of the patients), in 
the bowel (up to 4% of the patients), in the liver and bone marrow (up to 3% of the patients), and in 
the thyroid and kidneys (up to 2% of patients). 
Preclinical  toxicity  and  safety  studies  were  performed  using  commercial  kits  reconstituted  with 
decayed technetium and thus the effect of radiation has not been assessed. 
Page 45 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preclinical  data  obtained  with  the  non-radioactive  compound  reveal  no  special  hazard  for  humans 
based  on  conventional  studies  of  safety  pharmacology,  single-dose  and  repeated-dose  toxicity, 
although antimurine antibodies were found in all dose groups (including controls) in a repeated-dose 
study  in  monkeys.  Genotoxicity  studies  conducted  to  test  for  potentially  genotoxic  impurities  were 
also negative. 
No animal studies regarding carcinogenic potential and toxicity to reproduction were performed. 
Efficacy 
In a randomised cross-over trial comparing blinded reading of Scintimun and 99mTc-White Blood Cells 
(WBCs)  images  in  119  patients  with  suspected  osteomyelitis,  the  agreement  rate  between  the  two 
methods  was  83%  (lower 95%  confidence  interval  limit:  80%). A  major  deficiency  identified  in  the 
pivotal trial AG-PH3 was the lack of an adequate standard of truth or surrogate. Therefore, diagnostic 
parameters  like  sensitivity  and  specificity  could  not  be  calculated  and  only  agreement  rate  could  be 
estimated.  The  lack  of  standard  of  truth  in  the  AG-PH3  trial  was  addressed  in  a  post-hoc  analysis 
based on a surrogate, which was an evaluation by an expert panel of all data available from the study 
CRFs plus all additional data available from the investigators.  The overall diagnostic performance of 
technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab  in  this  analysis,  sensitivity  (76%)  and  specificity  (69%)  appeared 
similar to that of the previous analysis based on the investigator diagnosis at 1 month, 75% and 72%, 
respectively.  These  results  and  those  from  the  literature,  suggest  that  the  sensitivity  of  technetium 
(99mTc)  besilesomab  is  equivalent  to  that  of  99mTc  WBCs  but  that  specificity  is  likely  lower.  The 
CHMP acknowledged that a lower specificity could be acceptable if technetium (99mTc) besilesomab 
would  be  used  in  conjunction  with other  imaging  modalities  to  determine  the  appropriate  diagnosis. 
However,  there  are  insufficient  data  on  the  use  of  Scintimun  for  the  diagnosis  of  diabetic  foot 
infection. 
There  are  no  data  in  the  paediatric  population  for  the  indication  of  osteomyelitis.  Thus,  technetium 
(99mTc) besilesomab is not recommended for use in children below 18 years of age due to insufficient 
data on safety and efficacy (see SPC section 4.2, 5.1 and 5.2). 
There are insufficient data on the use of Scintimun for the diagnosis of diabetic foot infection. 
Safety 
From  the  evidence  from  clinical  trials  and  post-marketing  surveillance  available  Scintimun  was 
considered  to  exhibit  a  good  safety  profile.  Radiopharmaceuticals  should  be  received,  used  and 
administered only by authorised persons in designated settings. Their receipt, storage, use, transfer and 
disposal are subject to the regulations and the appropriate authorisations of the competent authorities. 
Scintimun  contains  sorbitol  therefore  patients  with  rare  hereditary  problems  of  fructose  intolerance 
should not be administered this product. 
This  medicinal  product  contains  less  than  1  mmol  sodium  (23  mg)  per  dose  administered,  i.e.  is 
essentially ‘sodium- free’. 
Immunogenicity 
Administration of murine monoclonal antibodies can lead to the development of Human Anti-Mouse 
Antibodies  (HAMA).  Patients  who  are  HAMA  positive  may  have  a  greater  risk  for  hypersensitivity 
reactions. Inquiry on possible previous exposure to murine monoclonal antibodies and a HAMA test 
should  be  made  prior  to  administration  of  Scintimun;  a  positive  response  would  contraindicate  the 
administration of Scintimun (see section 4.3). 
Repeated use 
Data  on  repeated  dosing  of  Scintimun  are  very  limited.  Scintimun  should  only  be  used  once  in  a 
patient’s lifetime.  
Page 46 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity reactions  
Anaphylactic  or  anaphylactoid  reactions  may  occur  after  administration  of  the  medicinal  product. 
Appropriate  cardiopulmonary  resuscitation  facilities  and  trained  personnel  should  be  available  for 
immediate use in the event of an adverse reaction. 
Since  allergic  reactions  to  the  murine  protein  cannot  be  excluded,  cardiovascular  treatment, 
corticosteroids, and antihistamines must be available during administration of the product. 
Risks related to radioactivity 
The administration of radiopharmaceuticals creates risks for other persons from external radiation or 
contamination  from  spills  of  urine,  vomiting,  expectoration  or  other  biological  fluids.  Radiation 
protection precautions in accordance with national regulations must be taken. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
No case of overdose has been reported. 
If an overdose of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab has been administered, the radiation dose delivered 
to the patient must be reduced by increasing as much as possible the elimination of the radionuclide by 
forced diuresis and frequent micturitions, and by the use of laxatives to promote faecal excretion. 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. 
At the recommended activity for diagnostic procedures, Scintimun is not likely to have any influence 
on the ability to drive and use machines. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 2.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
The CHMP considered the user testing conducted on the package leaflet and its results acceptable in 
spite  of  the  difficulty of  the  questionnaire  and  the  methodology  employed.    The  layout  of  the  PL  is 
acceptable.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
There is a definite need for a specific imaging technique of neutrophil clustering that is safe and has 
robust technical performance, diagnostic performance and a defined impact of diagnostic thinking in 
the case of suspected osteomyelitis.   
The CHMP noted the benefits of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab administration for in vivo labelling 
of  granulocytes  in  terms  of  the  good  quality  of  images  (technical  performance)  achieved  with 
technetium (99mTc) besilesomab and the acceptable safety profile of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab. 
The comparative data against  99mTc-WBCs in the pivotal study AG-PH3 have been generated in the 
diagnosis  of  peripheral  osteomyelitis  (including  diabetic  foot  and  joint  prosthesis)  and  had  an 
agreement rate of 80%. Sensitivity and specificity was analysed in a post-hoc analysis and was found 
within  the  acceptable  margins  and  limits  of  other  scintigraphic  imaging  techniques.  However,  a 
number of methodological issues were unresolved following the scientific assessment. The applicant, 
at  an  oral  explanation,  presented  data  addressing  remaining  issues  concerning  the  lack  of  internal 
validity  of  the  pivotal  trial  AG-PH3,  the  potential  bias  and  heterogeneity  from  the  literature  meta-
analysis  review,  the  diagnostic  performance  in  relation  to  the  standard  of  truth  and  the  impact  of 
diagnostic  performance  and  clinical  relevance  in  relation  to  the  indication.  The  applicant  also 
addressed the discrepancies in diagnosis between technetium (99mTc) besilesomab and 99mTc-WBCs in 
a post-hoc analysis.  
Given  the  data  submitted,  the  justifications  presented  by  the  applicant,  the  discussion  following  the 
oral  explanation,  the  expert  views  presented  by  the  SAG-D,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  a  consistent 
diagnostic  efficacy  has  been  established  for  technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab,  in  particular,  based  on 
Page 47 of 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adequate agreement rate and similar sensitivity for technetium (99mTc) besilesomab compared to 99mTc 
WBCs, albeit at the expense of a lower specificity. This in vivo technique may be of benefit in clinical 
practice when used in conjunction with the available diagnostic tools, particularly in situations where 
in  vivo  diagnostic  methods  are  preferred  compared  to  ex  vivo  methods.  The  CHMP  noted  that, 
although technetium (99mTc) besilesomab would require higher radioactivity than  99mTc-WBCs, there 
is  no  safety  concern  with  a  maximum  exposure  of  6.9  mSv  as  this  is  within  the  range  of  other 
diagnostic nuclear medicine techniques, except in pregnancy, which is a contraindication. Technetium 
(99mTc) besilesomab was well tolerated. The safety profile of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab has been 
adequately characterised based on the safety data presented from the clinical trial and the extensive the 
post-marketing experience.  
Thus, the CHMP was of the opinion that the benefits of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab outweight the 
risks  in  the  restricted  indication:  “Scintigraphic  imaging,  in  conjunction  with  other  appropriate 
imaging modalities, for determining the location of inflammation/infection in peripheral bone in adults 
with suspected osteomyelitis.”.  
Administration of a murine antibody increases the risk of developing HAMAs. Therefore, due to its 
immunogenicity, technetium (99mTc) besilesomab should be restricted to single use.   
The precise extent of the impact of technetium (99mTc) besilesomab on diagnostic thinking and patient 
management  in clinical practice  cannot be estimated based on the data submitted. The applicant has 
committed to perform a randomised parallel-group trial in the approved indication to formally address 
this issue. 
The CHMP was of the opinion that the evidence in diabetic foot infection was not established from 
both the pivotal trial and the literature meta-analysis. Furthermore, since MRI has become the imaging 
tool  of  choice  in  this  indication,  diabetic  foot  infection  should  be  excluded  from  the  indication  for 
technetium  (99mTc)  besilesomab.  Therefore,  the  restricted  indication  for  technetium  (99mTc) 
besilesomab  includes  the  wording  “Scintimun  should  not  be  used  for  the  diagnosis  of  diabetic  foot 
infection”.  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure that, at launch, all nuclear medicine specialists who 
are  expected  to  prescribe/use  Scintimun  are  provided  with  a  Direct  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication (DHPC; Dear Doctor letter). 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131) 
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product; 
Additional risk minimisation activities were required: see as detailed in section 2.5. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Scintimun in the indication: 
“This  medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. Scintigraphic imaging, in conjunction with other 
appropriate  imaging  modalities,  for  determining  the  location  of  inflammation/infection  in  peripheral 
bone in adults with suspected osteomyelitis. Scintimun should not be used for the diagnosis of diabetic 
foot  infection”  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
Page 48 of 48  
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
