25 April 2014 
EMA/CHMP/351387/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): glycopyrronium bromide (indicated for chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease) 
Procedure No. PSUV/0004 
Period covered by the PSUR: 29 March 2013 – 28 September 2013 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Enurev Breezhaler, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
During the reporting period one new safety signal – angioedema – was identified based on 
spontaneously reported cases. On the basis of the evaluation of this new signal MAH proposes to add 
angioedema as new ADR to the glycopyrronium CDS. The PRAC endorses the inclusion of angioedema 
in the CDS, and proposed inclusion also in the SmPC section 4.8 which was accepted by the MAH. An 
appropriate frequency for the ADR has been calculated in accordance with the SmPC guideline. 
Upon request from PRAC, the MAH also evaluated the topic of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity 
reactions are described by terms included in the ADR section of the CDS: rash and angioedema. The 
data has shown that other symptoms of hypersensitivity occurred simultaneous with the angioedema 
and with the same time relations to drug administration. Symptoms include itching, redness, 
anaphylactic reaction, urticaria, generalized exanthema, dyspnea, irritative cough, flushing. As 
hypersensitivity reactions have been described for other medications in this class and hypersensitivity 
reactions with clinical manifestations of rash and angioedema has been observed with Enurev 
Breezhaler, the MAH suggested to amend the Contraindications and Warnings & Precautions sections 
of the Enurev CDS to add hypersensitivity. The PRAC endorsed addition of hypersensitivity in 4.4. of 
the SmPC and suggested similar text as given in the SmPCs for indacaterol. This wording was agreed 
on by the MAH. 
Furthermore, the PRAC proposed that hypersensitivity is mentioned in section 4.8 in the SOC Immune 
system disorders with an appropriate frequency calculated from the clinical studies. Indeed, evidence 
provided by the MAH seems compatible with the assumption that there is a causal relationship between 
glycopyrronium and hypersensitivity. Inclusion of the information in section 4.8 seems helpful to 
patients and prescribers as the recognition of the hypersensitivity reaction is important to be able to 
initiate appropriate treatment. Furthermore, according to the SmPC guideline all reactions mentioned 
in section 4.4 should also be in section 4.8. Therefore, the PRAC recommends that the term is includes 
in section 4.8 as well. This was endorsed by the SmPC Advisory Group which was consulted on the 
matter. The MAH agreed upon this proposal.  
Reports of medication errors suggested that most can be categorized as inadequate use of the device 
or drug. It is therefore suggested and endorsed by the PRAC that a passage is added to the Dosage and 
Administration under section 4.2 of the SmPC, saying: “Patients who do not experience improvement 
in breathing should be asked if they are swallowing the medicine rather than inhaling it”. This was 
agreed by the MAH. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding medication errors, hypersensitivity and angioedema , the 
PRAC considered that changes to the product information were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Enurev Breezhaler, the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance glycopyrronium bromide 
is favourable subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied.  
EMA/CHMP/351387/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
