EMA/326863/2018 
EMEA/H/C/002430 
Seebri Breezhaler (glycopyrronium bromide) 
An overview of Seebri Breezhaler and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Seebri Breezhaler and what is it used for? 
Seebri Breezhaler is a medicine that is used to relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) in adults. COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs inside the 
lungs become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing. Seebri Breezhaler is used for 
maintenance (regular) treatment. 
Seebri Breezhaler contains the active substance glycopyrronium bromide.  
How is Seebri Breezhaler used? 
Seebri Breezhaler capsules, which contain a powder for inhalation, are only used with the Seebri 
Breezhaler inhaler and must not be swallowed. To take a dose, the patient places a capsule into the 
inhaler and breathes in through the mouth the powder from the capsule.  
The recommended dose is one capsule once a day at the same time each day. Patients should not use 
more than one capsule in a day. 
Seebri Breezhaler can only be obtained with a prescription. 
For more information about using Seebri Breezhaler, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Seebri Breezhaler work? 
The active substance in Seebri Breezhaler, glycopyrronium bromide, is a muscarinic receptor 
antagonist. This means that it widens the airways by blocking muscarinic receptors (targets) in muscle 
cells in the lungs. Muscarinic receptors control the contraction of muscles and when glycopyrronium 
bromide is inhaled, it relaxes the muscles of the airways. This helps to keep the airways open and 
allows the patient to breathe more easily. 
What benefits of Seebri Breezhaler have been shown in studies? 
Seebri Breezhaler was found to be more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) at relieving 
symptoms of COPD in two main studies involving a total of 1,888 patients with COPD. In both studies, 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
the main measure of effectiveness was improvement in patients’ forced expiratory volumes (FEV1, the 
maximum volume of air a person can breathe out in one second). 
After 12 weeks of treatment, Seebri Breezhaler increased FEV1 by 97 ml more than with placebo in the 
first study, and by 108 ml more in the second study. 
What are the risks associated with Seebri Breezhaler? 
The most common side effects with Seebri Breezhaler (seen in more than 1 patient in 100) are dry 
mouth, nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), insomnia (difficulty sleeping), muscle 
and bone pain and gastroenteritis (diarrhoea and vomiting). For the full list of all side effects and 
restrictions with Seebri Breezhaler, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Seebri Breezhaler authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that Seebri Breezhaler had a modest but relevant benefit for 
patients in terms of improving lung function, and also improved the symptoms of COPD. The Agency 
also noted that the fact that the medicine is used once a day may help patients to adhere to their 
treatment. In addition, there were no major safety concerns with Seebri Breezhaler, with side effects 
similar to other muscarinic receptor antagonist medicines. Therefore, the Agency decided that Seebri 
Breezhaler’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Seebri 
Breezhaler? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Seebri Breezhaler have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Seebri Breezhaler are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Seebri Breezhaler are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Seebri Breezhaler 
Seebri Breezhaler received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Seebri Breezhaler on 
28 September 2012.  
Further information on Seebri Breezhaler can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Seebri Breezhaler, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This overview was last updated in 06-2018.  
Seebri Breezhaler (glycopyrronium bromide)  
EMA/326863/2018  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
