EMA/613001/2021 
EMEA/H/C/004314 
Segluromet (ertugliflozin / metformin hydrochloride) 
An overview of Segluromet and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Segluromet and what is it used for? 
Segluromet is a medicine used to treat adults with type 2 diabetes together with diet and exercise.  
Segluromet can be used alone or together with other diabetes medicines when glucose (sugar) levels 
in the blood are insufficiently controlled by other metformin-based treatments. 
It can also be used as a replacement in patients who are already taking ertugliflozin and metformin as 
separate tablets. 
Segluromet contains two active substances, ertugliflozin and metformin.  
How is Segluromet used? 
Segluromet is available as tablets. The dose depends on how well the patient’s glucose levels are 
controlled.  
The doctor will check how well the patient’s kidneys are working before treatment and once a year 
during treatment. The dose of Segluromet may be reduced or it may be stopped if the kidneys are not 
working well enough. Treatment will not be started if the kidney function is too poor. 
For more information about using Segluromet, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. Segluromet can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Segluromet work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The result is a high level of 
glucose in the blood. 
The two active substances in Segluromet, ertugliflozin and metformin, work in different ways to lower 
glucose levels. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Ertugliflozin helps to lower glucose in the blood by making the patient pass out glucose in the urine. It 
does this by blocking a protein in the kidneys (called SGLT2) that normally takes glucose back into the 
blood from the kidneys. 
Metformin, on the other hand, works mainly by blocking glucose production in the body and by 
reducing the uptake of glucose in the gut.  
What benefits of Segluromet have been shown in studies? 
Four main studies in over 3,600 patients with type 2 diabetes have shown that adding ertugliflozin to 
metformin helps lower glucose levels when metformin is not working well enough. The studies looked 
mainly at effects on levels of HbA1c (a measure of blood glucose) after six months or one year of 
treatment. At the start of the studies, patients’ HbA1c level was above 7 percentage points. The results 
were as follows: 
• 
The first study found that in patients taking a combination of ertugliflozin and metformin, HbA1c 
levels fell by around 0.8 points, compared with reductions of 0.03 when placebo (a dummy 
treatment) was added to metformin. 
•  A second study found that adding ertugliflozin to a combination of sitagliptin (another diabetes 
medicine) and metformin was more effective than placebo. HbA1c levels fell by between 0.8 and 
0.9 percentage points when ertugliflozin was added, compared with a fall of 0.1 with placebo. 
•  A third study found that a combination of ertugliflozin at a 15 mg dose with metformin was about 
as effective as a combination of metformin with another diabetes medicine, glimepiride. In this 
study, HbA1c levels fell by 0.6 points with ertugliflozin and 0.7 points with glimepiride. A lower 
dose of ertugliflozin 5 mg was less effective. 
• 
The fourth study found that, in patients taking metformin, adding ertugliflozin was as effective as 
adding sitagliptin, with HbA1c levels falling by around 1 point with both treatments. HbA1c levels 
fell by a further 0.5 points when both medicines were added to metformin. 
In addition to lowering glucose levels, studies showed that adding ertugliflozin to metformin helped 
reduce patients’ bodyweight and risk of heart failure. 
What are the risks associated with Segluromet? 
The most common side effects with Segluromet (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
fungal infections of the vagina and other infections of the female reproductive system, urinary tract 
infections, and problems with the gut such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and loss of 
appetite.  
Segluromet must not be used in patients with uncontrolled diabetes with severe symptoms that lead to 
high acid levels in the blood. It must also not be used in patients with severe kidney problems or 
certain heart, circulatory, breathing or liver problems and in patients who drink alcohol to excess.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Segluromet, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Segluromet authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Segluromet’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the EU.  
The Agency considered that Segluromet can be used to treat patients with type 2 diabetes, on its own 
and in combination with other diabetes medicines. In addition, Segluromet can help some patients lose 
Segluromet (ertugliflozin / metformin hydrochloride)  
EMA/613001/20212021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
weight and may reduce the risk of heart failure. Because ertugliflozin has less effect on blood sugar in 
patients whose kidney function is reduced, combining Segluromet with other medicines that lower 
blood sugar may need to be considered in such patients. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Segluromet? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Segluromet have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Segluromet is continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Segluromet are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Segluromet 
Segluromet received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 23 March 2018. 
Further information on Segluromet can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/segluromet 
This overview was last updated in 10-2021. 
Segluromet (ertugliflozin / metformin hydrochloride)  
EMA/613001/20212021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
