ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Selincro 18 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 18.06 mg nalmefene (as hydrochloride dihydrate). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 60.68 mg lactose. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet) 
White, oval, biconvex, 6.0 x 8.75 mm film-coated tablet engraved with “S” on one side 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Selincro is indicated for the reduction of alcohol consumption in adult patients with alcohol 
dependence who have a high drinking risk level (DRL) [see section 5.1], without physical withdrawal 
symptoms and who do not require immediate detoxification. 
Selincro should only be prescribed in conjunction with continuous psychosocial support focused on 
treatment adherence and reducing alcohol consumption. 
Selincro should be initiated only in patients who continue to have a high DRL two weeks after initial 
assessment. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
At an initial visit, the patient’s clinical status, alcohol dependence, and level of alcohol consumption 
(based on patient reporting) should be evaluated. Thereafter, the patient should be asked to record his 
or her alcohol consumption for approximately two weeks. 
At the next visit, Selincro may be initiated in patients who continued to have a high DRL (see 
section 5.1) over this two-week period, in conjunction with psychosocial intervention focused on 
treatment adherence and reducing alcohol consumption. 
Selincro is to be taken as-needed: On each day the patient perceives a risk of drinking alcohol, one 
tablet should be taken, preferably 1-2 hours prior to the anticipated time of drinking. If the patient has 
started drinking alcohol without taking Selincro, the patient should take one tablet as soon as possible.  
The maximum dose of Selincro is one tablet per day. Selincro can be taken with or without food (see  
section 5.2). 
During pivotal trials the greatest improvement was observed within the first 4 weeks. The patient’s 
response to treatment and the need for continued pharmacotherapy should be evaluated on a regular 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(for example, monthly) basis (see section 5.1). The physician should continue to assess the patient’s 
progress in reducing alcohol consumption, overall functioning, treatment adherence, and any potential 
side effects. Clinical data for the use of Selincro under randomised controlled conditions are available 
for a period of 6 to 12 months. Caution is advised if Selincro is prescribed for more than 1 year. 
Special populations 
Elderly (≥65 years of age) 
No dose adjustment is recommended for this patient population (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Selincro in children and adolescents <18 years of age have not been 
established. No data are available (see section 5.1). 
Method of administration  
Selincro is for oral use. 
The film-coated tablet should be swallowed whole. 
The film-coated tablet should not be divided or crushed because nalmefene may cause skin 
sensitisation when in direct contact with the skin (see section 5.3). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Patients taking opioid agonists (such as opioid analgesics, opioids for substitution therapy with opioid 
agonists (e.g. methadone) or partial agonists (e.g. buprenorphine)) (see section 4.4). 
Patients with current or recent opioid addiction. 
Patients with acute symptoms of opioid withdrawal. 
Patients for whom recent use of opioids is suspected. 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh classification). 
Patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR <30 ml/min per 1.73 m2). 
Patients with a recent history of acute alcohol withdrawal syndrome (including hallucinations, 
seizures, and delirium tremens). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Selincro is not for patients for whom the treatment goal is immediate abstinence. Reduction of alcohol 
consumption is an intermediate goal on the way to abstinence. 
3 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Opioid administration 
In an emergency situation when opioids must be administered to a patient taking Selincro, the amount 
of opioid required to obtain the desired effect may be greater than usual. The patient should be closely 
monitored for symptoms of respiratory depression as a result of the opioid administration and for other 
adverse reactions. 
If opioids are needed in an emergency, the dose must always be titrated individually. If unusually large 
doses are required, close observation is necessary. 
Selincro should be temporarily discontinued for 1 week prior to the anticipated use of opioids, for 
example, if opioid analgesics might be used during elective surgery. 
The prescriber should advise patients that it is important to inform their health care professional of last 
Selincro intake if opioid use becomes necessary. 
Caution should be exercised when using medicinal products containing opioids (for example, cough 
medicines, opioid analgesics (see section 4.5)). 
Comorbidity 
Psychiatric disorders 
Psychiatric effects were reported in clinical studies (see section 4.8). If patients develop psychiatric 
symptoms that are not associated with treatment initiation with Selincro, and/or that are not transient, 
the prescriber should consider alternative causes of the symptoms and assess the need for continuing 
treatment with Selincro.  
Selincro has not been investigated in patients with unstable psychiatric disease. Caution should be 
exercised if Selincro is prescribed to patients with current psychiatric comorbidity such as major 
depressive disorder. 
The increased suicidal risk in alcohol and substances abusers, with or without accompanying 
depression, is not reduced by the intake of nalmefene. 
Seizure disorders 
There is limited experience in patients with a history of seizure disorders, including alcohol 
withdrawal seizures. 
Caution is advised if treatment aimed at reduction of alcohol consumption is started in such patients. 
Renal or hepatic impairment 
Selincro is extensively metabolised by the liver and excreted predominantly in the urine. Therefore, 
caution should be exercised when prescribing Selincro to patients with mild or moderate hepatic or 
mild or moderate renal impairment, for example, by more frequent monitoring. 
Caution should be exercised when prescribing Selincro to patients with elevated ALAT or 
ASAT (>3 times ULN) as these patients were excluded from the clinical development programme. 
Elderly patients (≥65 years of age) 
Limited clinical data are available on the use of Selincro in patients ≥65 years of age with alcohol 
dependence. 
Caution should be exercised when prescribing Selincro to patients ≥65 years of age (see sections 
4.2 and 5.2). 
Others 
Caution is advised if Selincro is co-administered with a potent UGT2B7 inhibitor (see section 4.5). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lactose 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency, or 
glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No in vivo drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted. 
Based on in vitro studies, no clinically relevant interactions between nalmefene, or its metabolites, and 
concomitantly administered medicinal products metabolised by the most common CYP450 and UGT 
enzymes or membrane transporters are anticipated. Co-administration with medicinal products that are 
potent inhibitors of the UGT2B7 enzyme (for example, diclofenac, fluconazole, medroxyprogesterone 
acetate, meclofenamic acid) may significantly increase the exposure to nalmefene. This is unlikely to 
present a problem with occasional use, but if long-term concurrent treatment with a potent UGT2B7 
inhibitor is initiated, a potential for an increase in nalmefene exposure cannot be excluded 
(see section 4.4).  Conversely, concomitant administration with a UGT inducer (for example, 
dexamethasone, phenobarbital, rifampicin, omeprazole) may potentially lead to subtherapeutic 
nalmefene plasma concentrations. 
If Selincro is taken concomitantly with opioid agonists (for example, certain types of cough and cold 
medicinal products, certain antidiarrhoeal medicinal products, and opioid analgesics), the patient may 
not benefit from the opioid agonist. 
There is no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction between nalmefene and alcohol.  
There seems to be a small impairment in cognitive and psychomotor performance after administration 
of nalmefene. However, the effect of nalmefene and alcohol in combination did not exceed the sum of 
the effects of each substance when taken alone.  
Simultaneous intake of alcohol and Selincro does not prevent the intoxicating effects of alcohol. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited data (fewer than 300 pregnancy outcomes) from the use of nalmefene in 
pregnant women.  
Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Selincro is not recommended during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of 
nalmefene/metabolites in milk (see section 5.3). It is unknown whether nalmefene is excreted in 
human milk. 
A risk to newborns/infants cannot be excluded. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
Selincro therapy, taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding to the child and the benefit of 
therapy to the woman. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
In fertility studies in rats, no effects were observed for nalmefene on fertility, mating, pregnancy, or 
sperm parameters. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Adverse reactions such as disturbance in attention, visual impairment, feeling abnormal, nausea, 
dizziness, somnolence, insomnia, and headache may occur following administration of nalmefene (see 
section 4.8). The majority of these reactions were mild or moderate, associated with treatment 
initiation, and of short duration. 
Consequently, Selincro may have minor to moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines 
and patients should exercise caution particular when starting treatment with Selincro. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The frequencies of the adverse reactions in Table 1 were calculated based on three randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in patients with alcohol dependence.  
The most common adverse reactions were nausea, dizziness, insomnia, and headache. The majority of 
these reactions were mild or moderate, associated with treatment initiation, and of short duration. 
Confusional state and, rarely, hallucinations and dissociation were reported in the clinical studies. The 
majority of these reactions were mild or moderate, associated with treatment initiation, and of short 
duration (a few hours to a few days). Most of these adverse reactions resolved during continued 
treatment and did not recur upon repeated administration. While these events were generally short-
lasting, they could represent alcoholic psychosis, alcohol withdrawal syndrome, or comorbid 
psychiatric disease.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 
to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000), or not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Frequencies of adverse reactions 
System Organ Class 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders   Common 
Frequency 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very Common 
Common 
Not known 
Common 
Very Common 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders  
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorder 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Investigations 
Common 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Adverse Reaction 
Decreased appetite 
Insomnia  
Sleep disorder 
Confusional state 
Restlessness 
Libido decreased (including loss of 
libido) 
Hallucination (including 
hallucination auditory, 
hallucination tactile, hallucination 
visual, and somatic hallucination) 
Dissociation 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Somnolence 
Tremor 
Disturbance in attention 
Paraesthesia  
Hypoaesthesia 
Visual impairment (mostly 
transient) 
Tachycardia 
Palpitations 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Dry mouth 
Diarrhoea 
Hyperhidrosis  
Angioedema 
Urticaria 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Erythema 
Muscle spasms 
Myalgia 
Priapism 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
Malaise 
Feeling abnormal 
Weight decreased 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In a study in patients diagnosed with pathological gambling, doses of nalmefene up to 90 mg/day for 
16 weeks were investigated. In a study in patients with interstitial cystitis, 20 patients received 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
108 mg/day of nalmefene for more than 2 years. Intake of a single dose of 450 mg nalmefene has been 
reported without changes in blood pressure, heart rate, respiration rate, or body temperature. 
No unusual pattern of adverse reactions was observed in these settings, but experience is limited. 
Management of an overdose should be observational and symptomatic. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other nervous system drugs, drugs used in alcohol dependence; 
ATC code: N07BB05 
Mechanism of action 
Nalmefene is an opioid system modulator with a distinct μ, δ, and κ receptor profile.  
- 
In vitro studies have demonstrated that nalmefene is a selective opioid receptor ligand with 
antagonist activity at the μ and δ receptors and partial agonist activity at the κ receptor. 
In vivo studies have demonstrated that nalmefene reduces alcohol consumption, possibly by 
modulating cortico-mesolimbic functions. 
- 
Data from the nonclinical studies, the clinical studies, and the literature do not suggest any form of 
dependence or abuse potential with Selincro. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of Selincro in reducing alcohol consumption in patients with alcohol dependence 
(DSM-IV) was evaluated in two efficacy studies. Patients with a history of delirium tremens, 
hallucinations, seizures, significant psychiatric comorbidity, or significant abnormalities of liver 
function as well as those with significant physical withdrawal symptoms at screening or randomisation 
were excluded. The majority (80%) of the patients included had a high or very high DRL (alcohol 
consumption >60 g/day for men and >40 g/day for women according to the WHO DRLs of alcohol 
consumption) at screening, of these 65% maintained a high or very high DRL between screening and 
randomisation. 
Both studies were randomised, double-blind, parallel-group and placebo-controlled, and after 
6 months of treatment, patients who received Selincro were re-randomised to receive either placebo or 
Selincro in a 1-month run-out period. The efficacy of Selincro was also evaluated in a randomised, 
double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled 1-year study. Overall, the studies included 
1,941 patients, 1,144 of whom were treated with Selincro 18 mg as-needed.  
At the initial visit, the patients’ clinical status, social situation, and alcohol consumption pattern were 
evaluated (based on patient reporting). At the randomisation visit, which occurred 1 to 2 weeks later, 
the DRL was re-assessed and treatment with Selincro was initiated together with a psychosocial 
intervention (BRENDA) focused on treatment adherence and reduction of alcohol consumption. 
Selincro was prescribed as-needed, which resulted in patients taking Selincro, on average, 
approximately half of the days. 
The efficacy of Selincro was measured using two co-primary endpoints: the change from baseline to 
Month 6 in the monthly number of heavy drinking days (HDDs) and the change from baseline to 
Month 6 in the daily total alcohol consumption (TAC). An HDD was defined as a day with a 
consumption ≥60 g of pure alcohol for men and ≥40 g for women.  
A significant reduction in the number of HDDs and TAC occurred in some patients in the period 
between the initial visit (screening) and randomisation due to non-pharmacological effects.   
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Studies 1 (n=579), and 2 (n=655), 18%, and 33%, of the total population, respectively, considerably 
reduced their alcohol consumption in the period between screening and randomisation. As concerns 
the patients with high or very high DRL at baseline, 35% of patients experienced improvement due to 
non-pharmacological effects in the period between the initial visit (screening) and randomisation. At 
randomisation, these patients consumed such a small amount of alcohol that there was little room for 
further improvement (floor effect). Therefore, the patients who maintained a high or very high DRL at 
randomisation were defined post hoc as the target population. In this post hoc population, the 
treatment effect was larger than that in the total population.  
The clinical efficacy and the clinical relevance of Selincro were analysed in patients with a high or 
very high DRL at screening and randomisation. At baseline, the patients had, on average, 23 HDDs 
per month (11% of patients had fewer than 14 HDDs per month) and consumed 106 g/day. The 
majority of the patients had low (55% had a score of 0-13) or intermediate (36% had a score of 14-21) 
alcohol dependence according to the Alcohol Dependence Scale.  
Post-hoc efficacy analysis in patients who maintained a high or very high DRL at randomisation 
In Study 1, the proportion of patients who withdrew was higher in the Selincro group than in the 
placebo group (50% versus 32%, respectively). For HDDs there were 23 days/month at baseline in the 
Selincro group (n=171) and 23 days/month at baseline in the placebo group (n=167).  For the patients 
who continued in the study and provided efficacy data at Month 6, the number of HDDs was 9 
days/month in the Selincro group (n=85) and 14 days/month in the placebo group (n=114). The TAC 
was 102 g/day at baseline in the Selincro group (n=171) and 99 g/day at baseline in the placebo group 
(n=167).  For the patients who continued in the study and provided efficacy data at Month 6, the TAC 
was 40 g/day in the Selincro-group (n=85) and 57 g/day in the placebo group (n=114).    
In Study 2, the proportion of patients who withdrew was higher in the Selincro group than in the 
placebo group (30% versus 28%, respectively). For HDDs there were 23 days/month at baseline in the 
Selincro group (n=148) and 22 days/month at baseline in the placebo group (n=155).  For the patients 
who continued in the study and provided efficacy data at Month 6, the number of HDDs was 10 
days/month in the Selincro group (n=103) and 12 days/month in the placebo group (n=111). The TAC 
was 113 g/day at baseline in the Selincro group (n=148) and 108 g/day at baseline in the placebo 
group (n=155).  For the patients who continued in the study and provided efficacy data at Month 6, the 
TAC was 44 g/day in the Selincro group (n=103) and 52 g/day in the placebo group (n=111).    
Responder analyses of the pooled data from the two studies are provided in Table 2. 
Table 2. Pooled Responder Analysis Results in Patients with a High or Very High DRL at 
screening and Randomisation 
Responsea 
Nalmefene  Odds Ratio (95% CI) 
Placebo 
p-value 
TAC R70b 
25.4% 
0-4 HDDc 
22.3% 
a  Analysis treats patients who withdrew as non-responder 
b  ≥70% reduction from baseline in TAC at Month 6 (28-day period)  
c  0 to 4 HDDs/month at Month 6 (28-day period)   
19.9% 
16.8% 
1.44 (0.97; 2.13) 
1.54 (1.02; 2.35) 
0.067 
0.040 
Limited data are available for Selincro in the 1-month run-out period. 
1 year study 
This study comprised a total of 665 patients. 52% of these patients had a high or very high DRL at 
baseline; of these, 52% (representing 27% of the total population) continued to have a high or very 
high DRL at randomisation. In this post-hoc target population, more patients receiving nalmefene 
discontinued (45%) as compared to those receiving placebo (31%). For HDDs there were 19 
days/month at baseline in the Selincro-group (n=141) and19 days/month at baseline in the placebo 
group (n=42).  For the patients who continued in the study and provided efficacy data at 1 year, the 
number of HDDs was 5 days/month in the Selincro group (n=78) and 10 days/month in the placebo 
group (n= 29). The TAC was 100 g/day at baseline in the Selincro group (n=141) and 101 g/day at 
9 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
baseline in the placebo group (n=42).  For the patients who continued in the study and provided 
efficacy data at 1 year, the TAC was 24 g/day in the Selincro group (n=78) and 47 g/day in the 
placebo group (n=29). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Selincro in all subsets of the paediatric population for the treatment of alcohol dependence (see section 
4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Nalmefene is rapidly absorbed after a single oral administration of 18.06 mg, with a peak 
concentration (Cmax) of 16.5 ng/ml after approximately 1.5 hours and an exposure (AUC) of 
131 ng*h/ml. 
The absolute oral bioavailability of nalmefene is 41%. Administration of high-fat food increases the 
total exposure (AUC) by 30% and the peak concentration (Cmax) by 50%; the time to peak 
concentration (tmax) is delayed by 30 min (tmax is 1.5 hours). This change is considered unlikely to be of 
clinical relevance. 
Distribution 
The average protein-bound fraction of nalmefene in plasma is approximately 30%. The estimated 
volume of distribution (Vd/F) is approximately 3200 l. 
Occupancy data obtained in a PET study after single and repeated daily dosing with 18.06 mg 
nalmefene show 94% to 100% receptor occupancy within 3 hours after dosing, which suggests that 
nalmefene readily crosses the blood-brain barrier. 
Biotransformation 
Following oral administration, nalmefene undergoes extensive, rapid metabolism to the major 
metabolite nalmefene 3-O-glucuronide, with the UGT2B7 enzyme being primarily responsible for the 
conversion, and with the UGT1A3 and UGT1A8 enzymes as minor contributors. A small proportion 
of nalmefene is converted to nalmefene 3-O-sulphate by sulphation and to nornalmefene by 
CYP3A4/5. Nornalmefene is further converted to nornalmefene 3-O-glucuronide and nornalmefene 3-
O-sulphate. The metabolites are not considered to contribute with significant pharmacological effect 
on the opioid receptors in humans, except for nalmefene 3-O-sulphate, which has a potency 
comparable to that of nalmefene. However, nalmefene 3-O-sulphate is present in concentrations less 
than 10% of that of nalmefene and thus considered highly unlikely to be a major contributor to the 
pharmacological effect of nalmefene. 
Elimination 
Metabolism by glucuronide conjugation is the primary mechanism of clearance for nalmefene, with 
renal excretion being the main route of elimination of nalmefene and its metabolites. 54% of the total 
dose is excreted in the urine as nalmefene 3-O-glucuronide, while nalmefene and its other metabolites 
are present in the urine in amounts of less than 3% each. 
The oral clearance of nalmefene (CL/F) was estimated as 169 l/h and the terminal half-life was 
estimated as 12.5 hours. 
From distribution, metabolism, and excretion data, it appears that nalmefene has a high hepatic 
extraction ratio. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Nalmefene exhibits a dose-independent linear pharmacokinetic profile in the dose interval of 18.06 mg 
to 72.24 mg, with a 4.4 times increase in Cmax and a 4.3 times increase in AUC0-tau (at or near steady 
state). 
Nalmefene does not exhibit any substantial pharmacokinetic differences between sexes, between 
young and elderly, or between ethnic groups. 
However, body size seems to affect the clearance of nalmefene to a minor degree (clearance increases 
with increasing body size), but this is considered unlikely to be of clinical relevance. 
Renal impairment 
Administration of a single oral dose of nalmefene 18.06 mg to patients with mild, moderate or severe 
renal impairment, classified using the estimated glomerular filtration rate, resulted in an increased 
exposure to nalmefene relative to that in healthy subjects.  For patients with mild, moderate or severe 
renal impairment the AUC for nalmefene was 1.1 times, 1.4 times and 2.4 times higher, respectively.  
Further, the Cmax and elimination half-life for nalmefene was up to 1.6 times higher in patients with 
severe renal impairment.  No clinically relevant changes were seen in tmax for any of the groups.  For 
the inactive major metabolite nalmefene 3-O-glucuronide, the AUC and Cmax were up to 5.1 times and 
1.8 times higher in patients with severe renal impairment, respectively (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Administration of a single dose of nalmefene 18.06 mg to patients with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment increased exposure relative to that in healthy subjects. In patients with mild hepatic 
impairment, exposure increased 1.5 times and oral clearance decreased by approximately 35%. In 
patients with moderate hepatic impairment, exposure increased 2.9 times for AUC and 1.7 times for 
Cmax, while oral clearance decreased by approximately 60%. No clinically relevant changes were seen 
in tmax or elimination half-life for any of the groups.  
Pharmacokinetic data after oral administration of nalmefene to patients with severe hepatic 
impairment are not available (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Elderly 
No specific study with oral dosing has been conducted in patients ≥65 years of age. A study with IV 
administration suggested that there were no relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics in the elderly as 
compared to non-elderly adults (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Nalmefene was shown to have skin sensitisation potential in the Local Lymph Node Assay in mice 
after topical application. 
Studies in animals do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to fertility, pregnancy, 
embryonic/foetal development, parturition, or postnatal development. 
In a rabbit embryo-foetal developmental toxicity study, effects on foetuses in terms of reduced foetal 
weight and delayed ossification, but no major abnormalities were seen. The AUC at the no observed 
adverse effect level (NOAEL) for these effects was below the human exposure at the recommended 
clinical dose. 
An increase in still-born pups and decrease in post-natal viability of pups was observed in pre-
postnatal toxicity studies in rats. This effect was considered to be an indirect effect related to toxicity 
to the dams. 
Studies in rats have shown excretion of nalmefene or its metabolites in milk. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The nonclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated-dose toxicity, genotoxicity, or carcinogenic potential. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Lactose, anhydrous 
Crospovidone, type A 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coating 
Hypromellose 
Macrogol 400 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Blister: Clear PVC/PVdC-aluminium blisters in cardboard boxes  
Pack sizes of 7, 14, 28, 42, 49 and 98 film-coated tablets 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
H. Lundbeck A/S 
Ottiliavej 9 
DK-2500 Valby 
Denmark 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/815/001 7 tablets 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/12/815/002 14 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/003 28 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/004 42 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/005 98 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/006 49 tablets 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 25 February 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 10 November 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
H. Lundbeck A/S 
Ottiliavej 9 
DK-2500 Valby 
Denmark 
Elaiapharm 
2881, Route des Crêtes 
Z.I. Les Bouillides 
Sophia Antipolis 
06560 Valbonne 
France 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.  
C. 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP.  
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR BLISTERS  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Selincro 18 mg film-coated tablets  
nalmefene 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 18.06 mg nalmefene (as hydrochloride dihydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
42 film-coated tablets 
49 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
H. Lundbeck A/S 
Ottiliavej 9 
DK-2500 Valby 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/815/001 7 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/002 14 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/003 28 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/004 42 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/005 98 tablets 
EU/1/12/815/006 49 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Selincro 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Selincro 18 mg tablet  
nalmefene 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
H. Lundbeck A/S 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Selincro 18 mg film-coated tablets 
nalmefene 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Selincro is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Selincro 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Selincro 
Possible side effects  
How to store Selincro 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Selincro is and what it is used for 
Selincro contains the active substance nalmefene. 
Selincro is used for the reduction of alcohol consumption in adult patients with alcohol dependence 
who still have a high level of alcohol consumption 2 weeks after the first consultation with their 
doctor.  
Alcohol dependence occurs when a person has a physical or psychological dependence on the 
consumption of alcohol. 
A high level of alcohol consumption is defined as drinking more than 60 g of pure alcohol per day for 
men and more than 40 g of pure alcohol per day for women. For example, a bottle of wine (750 ml; 
12% alcohol by volume) contains approximately 70 g alcohol and a bottle of beer (330 ml; 5% alcohol 
by volume) contains approximately 13 g alcohol. 
Your doctor has prescribed Selincro because you were not able to reduce your alcohol consumption on 
your own. Your doctor will provide you with counselling to help you keep to your treatment and  
thereby reduce your alcohol consumption. 
Selincro works by affecting processes in the brain that are responsible for your urge to continue 
drinking. 
A high level of alcohol consumption is associated with an increased risk of health and social problems. 
Selincro can help you reduce the amount of alcohol you drink, and keep the reduced level of alcohol 
consumption. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Selincro 
Do not take Selincro: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to nalmefene or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are taking medicines containing opioids, for example, methadone or buprenorphine or 
pain killers (such as morphine, oxycodone or other opioids) 
if you are or have recently been dependent on opioids. You may experience acute opioid 
withdrawal symptoms (such as feeling sick, vomiting, shakiness, sweating and anxiety) 
if you experience, or suspect you are experiencing opioid withdrawal symptoms  
if your liver or kidney function is poor 
if you are experiencing or have recently experienced several alcohol withdrawal symptoms 
(such as seeing, hearing or sensing things that are not there, seizures and shakiness)  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Selincro. Inform your doctor about any other diseases 
you may have, for example, depression, seizure, liver or kidney disease. 
If you and your doctor have decided that your immediate goal is abstinence (not drinking any alcohol), 
you should not take Selincro because Selincro is indicated for reduction of alcohol consumption. 
If you require emergency medical attention, tell your doctor that you are taking Selincro. Your use of 
Selincro may affect your doctor’s choice of emergency treatment. 
If you are going to have a surgical procedure, talk to your doctor at least 1 week before the procedure. 
You may need to stop taking Selincro temporarily. 
If you feel detached from yourself, see or hear things that are not there, and this continues to recur for 
more than a few days, stop taking Selincro and talk to your doctor. 
The increased suicidal risk in alcohol and substances abusers, with or without accompanying 
depression, is not reduced by the intake of nalmefene. 
If you are 65 years old or above, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Selincro. 
Children and adolescents 
Selincro should not be used in children or adolescents below the age of 18 years because Selincro has 
not been tested in this age group. 
Other medicines and Selincro 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. Caution should be excercised when taking medicines such as diclofenac (antiinflammatory 
medicine used to treat, for example, muscle pain), fluconazole (antibiotic used to treat diseases caused 
by some types of fungus), omeprazole (medicine used to block the production of acid in the stomach), 
or rifampicin (antibiotic used to treat diseases caused by some types of bacteria) together with 
Selincro. 
If you take medicines containing opioids, the effects of these medicines will be reduced, or the 
medicines may not work at all if you take them together with Selincro. These medicines include 
certain types of cough and cold medicines, certain medicines for diarrhoea and strong pain killers. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Selincro with food and alcohol 
Selincro does not prevent the intoxicating effects of alcohol. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
It is not known if Selincro is safe to use during pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
Selincro is not recommended if you are pregnant. 
If you are breast-feeding, you and your doctor should make a decision whether to discontinue breast-
feeding or to discontinue Selincro therapy, taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding to the 
child and the benefit of therapy to you. 
Driving and using machines 
Side effects such as disturbance in attention, visual impairment, feeling abnormal, nausea, dizziness, 
somnolence, insomnia, and headache may occur when beginning Selincro treatment. The majority of 
these reactions were mild or moderate, occurred at the beginning of treatment and lasted for a few 
hours to a few days. These side effects may affect your skills when driving or doing anything that 
requires you to be alert, including operating machinery. 
Selincro contains lactose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Selincro 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
How much to take 
- 
- 
The recommended dose is one tablet on days when you think there is a risk you will drink 
alcohol  
The maximum dose is one tablet per day. 
How and when to take 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Selincro is for oral use. 
You should take the tablet 1-2 hours before you start drinking alcohol. 
Swallow the tablet whole, do not crush or divide the tablet because Selincro may cause skin 
sensitisation when in direct contact with the skin. 
You can take Selincro with or without food. 
You can expect to be able to reduce your alcohol consumption within the first month after you 
start treatment with Selincro.  
Your doctor will follow up with you on a regular basis, for example, monthly after you start 
treatment with Selincro; the actual frequency will depend on your progress. Together you will 
decide how to continue. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you take more Selincro than you should 
If you believe you have taken too many Selincro tablets, contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you forget to take Selincro 
If you have started drinking alcohol without taking Selincro, take one tablet as soon as possible. 
If you stop taking Selincro 
After you stop treatment with Selincro, you may be less sensitive to the effects of medicines 
containing opioids for a few days. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Few cases of side effects of seeing, hearing or sensing things that are not there or feeling detached 
from oneself have been reported. However, the frequency of  these side effects cannot be estimated 
from the available data. 
The side effects reported with Selincro were mainly mild or moderate, occurred at the beginning of 
treatment and lasted for a few hours to a few days. 
If you continue treatment with Selincro, or start again after a break in treatment, you will probably not 
have side effects. 
In some cases, it may be difficult for you to distinguish side effects from the symptoms you may feel 
when you reduce your alcohol consumption. 
The following side effects have been reported with Selincro: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
feeling sick 
dizziness 
inability to sleep 
headache 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
loss of appetite 
difficulty sleeping, confusion, feeling restless, reduced sex drive 
drowsiness, body twitches, feeling less alert, peculiar sensation in the skin like pins and needles, 
reduced sense of touch 
racing heart, a sensation of a rapid, forceful, or irregular beating of the heart 
vomiting, dry mouth, diarrhoea 
excessive sweating 
feeling of exhaustion, weakness, discomfort or uneasiness, feeling strange 
- 
- 
- 
-  muscle spasms 
- 
-  weight loss 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
seeing, hearing or sensing things that are not there 
feeling detached from oneself 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
visual impairment (mostly transient) 
swelling of face, lips, tongue or throat 
hives 
itching 
rash 
redness of skin 
Other side effects (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  muscle pain 
- 
prolonged erection (priapism) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet.  You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Selincro 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date (EXP) that is printed on the blister and carton. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice defects in the tablets, such as chipped or broken tablets. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Selincro contains 
- 
- 
Each film-coated tablet contains 18.06 milligram nalmefene (as hydrochloride dihydrate) 
The other ingredients are: 
The tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, anhydrous lactose, crospovidone (type A), 
magnesium stearate. 
The film-coating of the tablet contains: hypromellose, macrogol 400, titanium dioxide (E171). 
What Selincro looks like and contents of the pack 
Selincro is a white, oval, biconvex, film-coated tablet of 6.0 x 8.75 mm. 
The tablet is engraved with ‘S’ on one side. 
Selincro is available in packs of 7, 14, 28, 42, 49 or 98 tablets in blister cards. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
H. Lundbeck A/S 
Ottiliavej 9 
DK-2500 Valby 
Denmark 
Manufacturer 
H. Lundbeck A/S 
Ottiliavej 9 
DK-2500 Valby 
Denmark 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elaiapharm 
2881, Route des Crêtes 
Z.I. Les Bouillides 
Sophia Antipolis 
06560 Valbonne 
France 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Lundbeck S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 535 7979 
Lietuva 
H. Lundbeck A/S (Danija) 
Tel: + 45 36301311 
България 
Lundbeck Export A/S Representative Office 
Teл.: +359 2 962 4696 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Lundbeck S.A. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 535 7979 
Česká republika 
Lundbeck Česká republika s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 275 600 
Danmark 
Lundbeck Pharma A/S 
Tel: + 45 4371 4270 
Deutschland 
Lundbeck GmbH 
Tel: +49 40 23649 0 
Eesti 
Lundbeck Eesti AS 
Tel: + 372 605 9350 
Ελλάδα 
Lundbeck Hellas S.A. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 610 5036 
España 
Lundbeck España S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 494 9620 
France 
Lundbeck SAS 
Tél: + 33 1 79 41 29 00 
Hrvatska 
Lundbeck Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 644 8264 
Ireland 
Lundbeck (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +353 1 468 9800 
Magyarország 
Lundbeck Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 436 9980 
Malta 
Charles de Giorgio Ltd 
Tel: +356 25600500 
Nederland 
Lundbeck B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 697 1901 
Norge 
H. Lundbeck AS 
Tlf: + 47 91 300 800 
Österreich 
Lundbeck Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 253 621 6033 
Polska 
Lundbeck Poland Sp. z o. o. 
Tel.: + 48 22 626 93 00 
Portugal 
Lundbeck Portugal Lda 
Tel: +351 21 00 45 900 
România 
Lundbeck Romania SRL  
Tel: +40 21319 88 26 
Slovenija 
Lundbeck Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 2 229 4500 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Lundbeck Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 677 4171 
Κύπρος 
Lundbeck Hellas A.E 
Τηλ.: + 357 22490305 
Slovenská republika 
Lundbeck Slovensko s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5341 42 18 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy H. Lundbeck Ab 
Puh/Tel: + 358 2 276 5000 
Sverige 
H. Lundbeck AB 
Tel: +46 40 699 82 00 
Latvija 
H. Lundbeck A/S (Dānija) 
Tel: + 45 36301311 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Lundbeck (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +353 1 468 9800 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
This leaflet was last revised in 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
