Summary of Risk Management Plan for Semglee® (insulin glargine) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Semglee®.  The  RMP  details 
important  risks  of  insulin  glargine,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  insulin  glargine's  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Semglee®'s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Semglee® should be read in the context of all the information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Semglee®'s RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Semglee® is authorised for treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults, adolescents and children 
aged 2 years and above. It contains insulin glargine as the active substance and it is given by 
subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Semglee®’s benefits can be found in Semglee®’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further Characterise 
the Risks  
Important risks of Semglee®, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined below, 
if applicable. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important risks of Semglee® are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken by patients. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Semglee®. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations 
etc.); 
There  are  no  important  risks  or  missing  information  considered  as  relevant  for  Semglee®'s 
RMP. 
II.B Summary of Important Risks  
There  are  no  important  identified  or  potential  risks  and  no  missing  information  for  insulin 
glargine that qualifies for inclusion in this RMP version. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Semglee®.  
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Semglee®. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
