EMA/736568/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Senshio 
(ospemifene) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Senshio, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Senshio is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Senshio, which can be found on Senshio’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Senshio is a medicine used to treat moderate to severe symptoms of vulvovaginal atrophy (dryness, 
irritation and soreness around the genital area, and painful sexual intercourse) in women who have 
been through the menopause. In these women, vulvovaginal atrophy is usually caused by falling levels 
of the sex hormone oestrogen which lead to a thinning of the tissues in and around the vagina and to 
reduction in the amount of mucus that keeps the vaginal environment moist. This can cause dryness, 
leading to painful sexual intercourse, and irritation and soreness around the genital area. 
The percentage of postmenopausal women who have symptoms from vulvovaginal atrophy has been 
reported to be around 50%.  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Senshio contains the active substance ospemifene, which stimulates the receptors for oestrogen in 
some tissues in the body such as the vagina, helping to reverse the symptoms of vulvovaginal atrophy. 
Senshio has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies involving over 
1,700 postmenopausal women with vulvovaginal atrophy. The main measure of effectiveness was 
related to the change in symptoms such as pain associated with sexual activity as well as vaginal 
dryness using a validated questionnaire. Women also received a non-hormonal vaginal lubricant for 
use as needed. In the first study, 66% of women using Senshio reported relief from vaginal dryness 
(mild or no symptoms) after 12 weeks’ treatment compared with 49% in the placebo group. In the 
second study, 62% of women using Senshio reported relief from vaginal dryness after 12 weeks 
(compared with 53% in the placebo group). Regarding pain during sexual activity, 58% of women 
using Senshio reported relief in the first study (compared with 42% using placebo) and 63% reported 
relief during the second study (compared with 48% using placebo). The studies also showed that 
Senshio was effective in restoring the vaginal environment including its acidity and tissue thickness.  
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There are limited data from clinical studies on the effectiveness of Senshio beyond 12 months. 
Page 1/7 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Increase in 
Investigation of the womb such as a 
Patients with unexplained vaginal 
uterine (womb) 
transvaginal ultrasound (scan of the 
bleeding must not take Senshio. 
diagnostic 
womb using a probe inserted in the 
procedures 
vagina) was performed in a greater 
Bleeding or spotting that occurs after 
number of patients who received Senshio 
taking Senshio, or continues after 
and experienced vaginal bleeding 
Senshio has been stopped, should be 
compared with women on placebo. 
investigated. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Blood clots in the 
Blood clots in the arteries may lead to a stroke. In the Senshio clinical studies, 
arteries leading to 
the number of strokes observed with Senshio was not significantly different 
stroke 
from the number of strokes observed in patients receiving placebo and none 
(cerebrovascular 
of the strokes had a fatal outcome. However, stroke is a recognised risk with 
events) 
other medicines from the same therapeutic class (called selective oestrogen 
receptor modulator - SERMs). 
Blood clots in the 
Blood clots in the veins of the legs may lead to a painful swelling of the legs 
veins (venous 
(deep vein thrombosis) and, very occasionally, to life threatening or fatal 
thromboembolic 
events if the clots are dislodged and travel to the lungs (pulmonary 
events) 
embolism). In the Senshio clinical studies, the number of venous 
thromboembolic events observed with Senshio was no greater than in the 
patients receiving placebo, and there were no cases of pulmonary embolism. 
However, as a risk of blood clots in the veins has been identified with other 
SERMs, the possibility of venous thromboembolic events occurring during 
treatment with Senshio cannot be ruled out. 
Vaginal bleeding 
Some medicines from the same therapeutic class as Senshio are known to 
have effects that are similar to the hormone oestrogen, such as stimulating 
abnormal growth of the womb lining which could lead to vaginal bleeding. The 
number of patients in the clinical studies who had vaginal bleeding when 
taking Senshio was comparable to the number who experienced this when 
taking placebo. However, if vaginal bleeding occurs whilst taking Senshio, it is 
essential that the cause is further investigated. 
Cancer of the lining of 
No cases of endometrial cancer occurred in the Senshio clinical studies. A few 
the womb 
cases of non-cancerous polyps (small growths) of the womb and one case of 
(endometrial cancer) 
hyperplasia (abnormal thickening) of the womb occurred 3 months after 
treatment with Senshio in clinical studies. Some medicines from the same 
therapeutic class as Senshio are known to have effects that are similar to the 
hormone oestrogen, such as stimulating abnormal growth of the womb lining 
which could lead to cancer. 
Bulging of the womb,  An increased risk of pelvic organ prolapse has been seen with some other 
Page 2/7 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
bowel or bladder into 
SERMs and is therefore a potential risk with Senshio. Pelvic organ prolapse 
the vagina (pelvic 
can lead to urinary incontinence. However, in clinical studies with Senshio the 
organ prolapse) / 
rate of bladder prolapse with Senshio was lower than that seen in patients 
unintentional passing 
receiving placebo. 
of urine (urinary 
incontinence)  
Cholecystitis 
Inflammation of the gallbladder (a small organ underneath the liver that 
(inflammation of the 
stores bile) is usually caused by gallstones. An increased risk of gallstones has 
gallbladder) and 
been seen with some other SERMs. In clinical studies with Senshio the number 
gallbladder events 
of patients developing gallstones with Senshio was lower than that seen with 
placebo. 
Atrial fibrillation 
No increased risk of atrial fibrillation has been seen in the Senshio clinical 
(heart condition that 
trials. However, an increased risk of atrial fibrillation has been observed with 
causes an irregular 
another SERM. 
and often abnormally 
fast heart rate) 
Increased amounts of 
An increased risk of raised triglycerides in the blood has been seen with some 
triglycerides (fatty 
SERMs. However, no increased risk has been seen in the Senshio clinical trials. 
substance) in the 
blood 
Liver tumours 
No cases of liver tumours have been observed with Senshio in clinical trials. 
Liver tumours have been seen in experimental models with Senshio, however, 
this finding is not thought to be relevant to post-menopausal women. 
Thymic epithelial 
No cases of thymic epithelial tumours have been observed with Senshio in 
tumours (cancer of 
clinical trials. Thymic epithelial tumours have been seen in experimental 
the thymus gland – a 
models with Senshio, however, this finding is not thought to be relevant to 
small organ located in 
post-menopausal women. 
the upper portion of 
the chest) 
Renal carcinoma and 
Kidney cancer was seen in experimental models with another SERM. However, 
adenoma (cancer of 
as kidney cancer is known to occur spontaneously the significance of this is 
the kidney) 
not known. One case of cancer of the urinary tract was found in a patient 
receiving Senshio in a clinical trial but this was not thought to be caused by 
the medicine. 
Renal failure (kidney 
No cases of kidney failure or worsening kidney failure were seen in clinical 
failure) 
trials with Senshio. However, nephrocalcinosis (calcium deposits in the kidney) 
and kidney failure were seen in experimental models with a SERM other than 
Senshio. 
Use of Senshio for 
Senshio has been approved to treat moderate to severe symptoms of 
conditions other than 
vulvovaginal atrophy in post-menopausal women who are not able to use 
the approved use of 
oestrogen products that are applied locally in the vagina.  
the product (off label 
Page 3/7 
 
 
Risk 
use) 
What is known  
Senshio is not effective in treating other symptoms of the menopause such as 
hot flushes. 
There is a risk that Senshio may be prescribed to patients in whom its use is 
not approved (such as postmenopausal women suffering from hot flushes). 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Long-term safety 
Only a small number of patients received Senshio for more than 12 months in 
information 
the clinical studies and so it is not known if use beyond this time would cause 
any problems. For this reason doctors should assess patients taking Senshio 
at least once a year to check that it is safe for the patient to continue 
treatment. 
Women with diseases 
Women with diseases of the female reproductive system other than symptoms 
of the reproductive 
of thinning of the vagina were excluded from the clinical studies, so 
system other than 
experience of using Senshio in such patients is limited. Therefore, it is 
signs of thinning of 
recommended that such conditions are investigated and treated appropriately. 
the vagina 
Women with breast 
Women with breast cancer were excluded from the Senshio clinical studies, so 
cancer  
there is limited experience of using Senshio in women with breast cancer. 
There is also no experience of using Senshio together with breast cancer 
treatments. For this reason, Senshio should be used only after the treatment 
of breast cancer has been completed. 
Use of Senshio 
The use of SERMs, oestrogen-containing medicines or medicines that have 
together with 
oestrogen-like or opposing effects was not permitted together with Senshio in 
medicines such as 
the clinical studies. For this reason, use of these medicines together with 
SERMs, oestrogens or 
Senshio is not recommended. 
other medicines with 
oestrogenic/ 
antioestrogenic 
actions  
Side effects due to 
Studies investigating interactions of Senshio with other medicines have shown 
increase in blood 
that levels of the active substance ospemifene may increase when given 
levels of Senshio’s 
together with medicines that block certain enzymes in the liver which are 
active substance, 
responsible for the way ospemifene is processed in the body. Caution is 
ospemifene, when 
recommended if the antifungal medicine fluconazole is given together with 
used together with 
Senshio because it significantly increases ospemifene levels and may lead to 
medicines that 
side effects. Treatment with Senshio may have to be stopped while treatment 
decrease the activity 
with fluconazole lasts. Caution is recommended when taking Senshio with 
of liver enzymes  
certain medicines known as strong inhibitors of liver enzymes because 
patients taking such medicines were not included in the main clinical studies 
and the clinical consequences have not been established. 
Risk of lack of effect 
A study has shown that the medicine rifampicin decreases the levels of 
due to decrease in 
Senshio due to its ability to increase the activity of enzymes in the liver that 
blood levels of 
metabolise Senshio. Administration of Senshio together with medicines that 
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
ospemifene when 
increase the activity of certain enzymes in the liver known as CYP3A4 and 
used together with 
CYP2C9 (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin, St John’s wort and rifabutin) would 
medicines that 
be expected to decrease the amount of Senshio, which may decrease the 
increase the activity 
clinical effect. 
of liver enzymes 
Severe hepatic (liver) 
The safety and efficacy of Senshio in patients with severe liver impairment 
impairment 
were not evaluated in clinical trials and its use in such patients is not 
recommended. No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild to 
moderate liver impairment. 
Patients who often 
Patients who often suffer from severe allergic reactions were excluded from 
suffer severe allergic 
the Senshio clinical trials. Therefore there is no experience of Senshio use in 
reactions 
such patients. Patients who are allergic to Senshio or to any of the other 
inactive substances in the tablets must not take Senshio. 
Limited amount of 
Approximately 19% of the patients who took Senshio in the clinical studies 
data in the elderly 
were over 65 years old. Although no specific problems were observed in these 
(over 65 years old) 
elderly patients compared with younger patients the number of elderly 
patients taking part was relatively small. For this reason, the safety of Senshio 
in elderly patients will continue to be assessed closely. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Senshio can be found on Senshio’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
A post-marketing 
To find out the 
Long-term safety 
Planned.  
Annual study 
safety study of 
number of certain 
assessing risks of: 
Senshio using 
side effects of 
information from 
interest occurring 
• 
venous 
health databases 
in women taking 
thromboembolic 
in Germany, Italy, 
Senshio for 
events 
Spain, and the 
treatment of 
• 
cerebrovascular 
United States. 
vaginal dryness or 
events 
progress reports 
and interim 
reports will be 
provided for each 
individual country 
from 2016 to 
2020. 
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
 
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
Final report 
(planned): Feb 
2021. 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
painful sex 
• 
increase in medical 
compared with 1) 
tests relating to 
the number of 
the vagina or 
side effects 
womb 
experienced in 
• 
pelvic organ 
post-menopausal 
prolapse/urinary 
women not 
receiving 
treatment for this 
condition ; and 2) 
in post-
menopausal 
women taking 
other similar 
medications to 
Senshio (SERMs) 
for other 
oestrogen-
deficiency 
conditions or 
breast cancer 
prevention. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
incontinence 
cholecystitis and 
gallbladder events 
atrial fibrillation 
increased blood 
levels of 
triglycerides 
liver tumours 
cancer of the 
thymus  
kidney cancer and 
kidney failure or 
worsening kidney 
failure 
• 
off label use. 
A study to 
investigate 
To find out if 
Experimental models 
Planned 
multiple doses of 
found Senshio to 
Planned 
Dec 2016 
whether the blood 
Senshio affect the 
weakly increase the 
levels of a 
blood levels of 
activity of the enzyme. 
medicine called 
midazolam in 
Whilst this is not 
midazolam are 
postmenopausal 
expected to be a safety 
affected by 
women. 
concern for Senshio it 
repeated doses of 
Senshio 
To check the 
safety of taking 
Senshio together 
with midazolam. 
is not known if Senshio 
will increase the 
activity of this enzyme 
and reduce the effects 
of medicines like 
midazolam in humans. 
This study is being 
carried out to find out 
if this is the case or 
not. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
The post-marketing safety study listed above is a condition to the marketing authorisation. 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Major changes to the Risk Management Plan over time 
Not applicable.  
This summary was last updated in 12-2014. 
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
