EMA/213714/2019  
EMEA/H/C/003971 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop1 (sevelamer carbonate) 
An overview of Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop and why it is authorised in the 
EU 
What is Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop and what is it used for? 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop is a medicine used to control hyperphosphataemia (high blood 
phosphate levels) in:  
• 
• 
adult patients on dialysis (a technique to remove unwanted substances from the blood); 
adults and children from 6 years of age with chronic (long-term) kidney disease. 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop should be used with other treatments such as calcium supplements and 
vitamin D to prevent the development of bone disease. 
It contains the active substance sevelamer carbonate.  
How is Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop used? 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop is available as tablets (800 mg) and as powder (800 mg and 2.4 g) to 
be taken 3 times a day with meals. 
The dose to take depends on the patient’s level of blood phosphate and, for children, their height and 
weight. Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop must not be taken on an empty stomach and patients should 
keep to their prescribed diets.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Sevelamer 
carbonate Winthrop, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop work? 
The active substance in Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop, sevelamer carbonate, is a phosphate binder. 
When taken with meals, it attaches in the gut to phosphate from the food, thereby preventing the 
phosphate from being absorbed into the body and helping to reduce phosphate levels in the blood. 
1 Previously known as Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                       
What benefits of Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop have been shown in 
studies? 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop has been shown in studies to be effective at lowering levels of blood 
phosphate in patients with hyperphosphataemia. 
In two main studies in 110 adults with kidney disease who were on dialysis, Sevelamer carbonate 
Winthrop brought phosphate levels down to around 1.5-1.6 mmol/l (which is within or close to the 
normal range) and was as effective as another approved medicine Renagel.  
In a third main study in 49 adults who were not on dialysis, Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop reduced 
phosphate levels from 2.0 mmol/l to 1.6 mmol/l. 
Finally, a main study also showed that Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop was effective at lowering 
phosphate levels in 100 children: children who took Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop had a greater 
reduction in phosphorous (0.87 mg/dl) than those taking placebo (a dummy treatment) who had a rise 
in phosphorous of 0.04 mg/dl. 
What are the risks associated with Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop? 
The most common side effects with Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop (which may affect more than 1 in 
10 people) are nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, upper abdominal (belly) pain and constipation. For the 
full list of side effects of Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop, see the package leaflet. 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop must not be used in people with low blood phosphate levels or with 
bowel obstruction (a blockage in the gut). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop approved? 
Studies show that Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop is effective at reducing levels of blood phosphate in 
patients with hyperphosphataemia, and its side effects are considered manageable. The European 
Medicines Agency therefore decided that Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop’s benefits are greater than its 
risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop are continuously monitored. 
Side effects reported with Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop are carefully evaluated and any necessary 
action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 
January 2015. This authorisation was based on the authorisation granted to Renvela in 2009 
(‘informed consent’). 
Further information on Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/sevelamer-carbonate-winthrop. 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop0F (sevelamer carbonate)  
EMA/213714/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 04-2019. 
Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop0F (sevelamer carbonate)  
EMA/213714/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
