Summary of risk management plan for Shingrix
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Shingrix. The RMP details important 
risks of Shingrix, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Shingrix's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Shingrix's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Shingrix should be used.
This  summary of  the  RMP  for  Shingrix  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Shingrix's 
RMP.
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for
Shingrix is authorised for prevention of herpes zoster (HZ) and post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), 
in


adults 50 years of age or older; and
adults 18 years of age or older at increased risk of HZ (see SmPC for the full indication).
It contains the recombinant VZV gE antigen as active substance and the AS01B Adjuvant System 
and it is given by intramuscular injection.
Further information about the evaluation of Shingrix’s benefits can be found in Shingrix’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage:
// ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Shingrix
II.
Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to minimise  or
further characterise the risks
Important  risks  of  Shingrix,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Shingrix's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as  warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Shingrix is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A
List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  Shingrix are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Shingrix. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information







None
Risk of potential Immune Mediated Disorders (pIMDs)
following Shingrix vaccination)
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS)
Virus reactivation in individuals with a history of Herpes
Zoster
Long-term efficacy and assessment of the need for
additional doses of the vaccine in adults of 18 years of
age or above
Long-term immunogenicity in adults as of 18 years of
age or above
Effectiveness of Shingrix in preventing HZ, PHN and
other HZ-related complications
II.B
Summary of important risks
Important potential risk: Risk of potential Immune Mediated Disorders (pIMDs) following 
Shingrix vaccination
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and risk groups
pIMDs are a subset of adverse events that include autoimmune 
diseases and other inflammatory and/or neurological disorders of 
interest which may or may not have an autoimmune aetiology. 
pIMDs are considered as a theoretical risk for all vaccines containing 
Adjuvant Systems (i.e. adjuvant combinations). In addition to genetic 
factors, environmental triggers (in particular, viruses, bacteria and 
other infectious pathogens) could play a major role in the 
development of pIMDs. This has stimulated the debate as to 
whether such diseases might also be triggered by vaccines, 
particularly based on their possible effects on the regulation of the 
immune system and the potential (yet theoretical) concern that they 
may induce unwanted immune processes in susceptible individuals. 
Case reports of autoimmune diseases temporally associated with 
the administration of vaccines (both adjuvanted and non-adjuvanted) 
have been described in the scientific literature. Most of these reports 
refer to vaccines targeting viral illnesses. Proposed mechanisms by 
which vaccines might induce autoimmune diseases are frequently 
extrapolated from the known capacity of the infectious agents that 
the vaccine targets 
Naturally occurring autoimmune diseases are multi-etiological 
conditions with multiple risk factors, including genetic predisposition. 
All ages are affected with onset from childhood to late adulthood, as 
well as all racial, ethnic and socioeconomic groups.
No specific trend in terms of groups or risks factors has been 
identified in Shingrix.
Risk minimisation measures
No risk minimisation measures
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Short study name: EPI-ZOSTER-030 VS US DB, EPI-ZOSTER-032 
VS US DB
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan.
Important potential risk: Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS)
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine
A post-marketing observational study (draft manuscript) evaluating 
the risk of GBS following vaccination with Shingrixin adults  aged 65 
years or older enrolled in the Medicare health insurance in the 
United States indicated an increased risk of GBS during the 42 days 
following vaccination estimated as 3.13 excess cases of GBS per 
million doses administered. Some limitation and confounding 
variables of the study are presented by the authors. Other time-
varying confounders such as potential changes in GBS risk over 
time due to wild-type VZV reactivation are presented as unknown. 
Moreover, the increased risk was only detected after the first dose 
([RR post dose 1 of 9.30 (95% CI: 3.00-28.84)];[RR post dose 2 of 
0.22 (95% CI: 0.04-1.22)]) and has only been investigated in 
individuals aged 65 years or older. It is worth noting that incidence of 
GBS increases with age (1.65 per 100,000 py in 40-64 YOA; 3.33 
per 100,000 PY in 65-79 YOA and 3.07 per 100,000 PY in more than 
80 YOA). GSK has also explored the potential confounding role of 
preceding HZ episode(s) in the occurrence of GBS post vaccination, 
a self-controlled case series (SCCS) in two US claims databases 
(Truven Health Analytics’ Marketscan commercial (< 65 years old) 
and Medicare supplemental (>= 65 years old), abstract submitted 
suggests a confounding effect of HZ episodes on the potential 
causal association between Shingrixvaccination and the risk of 
GBS. The possible temporal association between HZ disease and 
GBS has been reported in the literature.
The review of additional data (including preclinical data, clinical 
study data, the scientific literature, spontaneous report data in the 
GSK safety database and external databases such as 
EudraVigilance and VAERS), does not indicate that there is an 
increased occurrence of GBS following vaccination with Shingrix. 
When considering 75% of reporting fraction the observed number of 
cases was above the expected number of cases in Canada, 
however the expected was included in the 95%CI of the observed. In 
Germany, USA and worldwide the observed number of cases were 
below the expected, for several plausible scenarios of background 
incidence rates and underreporting, based on background data from 
a 2007 publication. However, several limitations inherent to the 
available data are noted, e.g., possible underreporting or the quality 
of the spontaneously reported cases (extent of documentation); 
clinical trials were not designed to evaluate an association between 
Shingrixvaccination and rare diseases.
Because of the substantial limitations of the currently available data 
and confounding variables, the Company has concluded that the 
Risk factors and risk groups
strength of evidence of the overall data currently available to the 
Company are insufficient to determine a causal relationship of GBS 
with Shingrix.
In North America and Europe, GBS is more common in adults, and 
the incidence increases exponentially with age (1.65 per 100,000 py 
in 40-64 YOA; 3.33 per 100,000 PY in 65-79 YOA and 3.07 per 
100,000 PY in more than 80 YOA).
Approximately two-thirds of GBS cases occur several days or 
weeks after an apparent infectious illness, commonly a 
gastrointestinal illness or upper respiratory tract infection. 
Campylobacter enteritis, influenza, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr 
virus, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), chikungunya, Zika 
virus, and Mycoplasma pneumoniae have been implicated to be the 
trigger. Malignancies and surgical procedures also have been 
suggested to this increase the risk of GBS.
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Wording in SmPC section 4.4
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Short study name: EPI-ZOSTER-030 VS US DB, EPI-ZOSTER-032 
VS US DB
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan.
Important potential risk: Virus reactivation in individuals with a history of Herpes Zoster
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine
ZOSTER-033 was a phase 3 open-label, uncontrolled, study which 
evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of Shingrix when 
administered IM on a M0/M2 schedule to 96 subjects with a prior 
physician-documented history of HZ. The occurrence of HZ was not 
an endpoint of the study; HZ was to be reported as an AE or SAE as 
applicable. Six subjects (6.3%), two of whom had reported more 
than one prior episode of HZ (1 participant with 2 episodes and 1 
participant with 3 episodes), reported nine episodes of unconfirmed 
HZ during the study period of M0 – M14. None of these suspected 
HZ cases were considered related to vaccination by the investigator. 
Five of the subjects received anti-viral medication. Clinical details 
which would inform a robust conclusion regarding these events are 
lacking. As the study was not designed to formally evaluate HZ 
recurrence (uncontrolled study with a limited sample size and no HZ 
confirmatory testing), conclusions regarding this aspect of the study 
Risk factors and risk groups
have to be considered with caution, in particular since some cases 
were self-reported.
In ZOSTER-056, from the 292 subjects with previous HZ, who had 
received placebo during the ZOSTER 006/022 pivotal studies and 
subsequently received HZ/su vaccination in ZOSTER -056, only one 
subject had a clinically confirmed episode of HZ, the episode 
occurred between Dose 1 and Dose 2 of study vaccination.
In post marketing setting, reported HZ episodes in subjects with a 
previous history of HZ do not suggest a safety concern
Subjects with a history of a previous Herpes Zoster. Only people 
who had natural infection with wild-type VZV or had varicella 
vaccination can develop herpes zoster. The reasons why VZV 
reactivates and causes herpes zoster are not well understood. 
However, a person’s risk for herpes zoster may increase as their 
VZV-specific cell-mediated immunity declines. This decline in 
immunity can result from increasing age and/or medical conditions 
and medications that suppress the immune system. A person’s 
risk for herpes zoster increases sharply after 50 years of age.
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Wording in SmPC sections 4.4 and 5.1
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Short study name: ZOSTER-062
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan.
Missing information: Long-term efficacy and assessment of the need for additional doses in 
adults 18 years of age and older
Risk minimisation measures
No risk minimisation measures
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Short study name: ZOSTER-049
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan.
Missing information: Long-term immunogenicity in adults 18 years of age and older
Risk minimisation measures
No risk minimisation measures
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Short study name: ZOSTER-049, ZOSTER-073
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan.
Missing information:  Effectiveness of Shingrix in preventing HZ, PHN and other HZ-related 
complications
Risk minimisation measures
No risk minimisation measures
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Short study name: EPI-ZOSTER-031
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan.
II.C
II.C.1
Post-authorisation development plan
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Shingrix.
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
Study short name
ZOSTER-049
Long-term efficacy and assessment of the need 
for additional doses in adults 50 years of age and 
older
(Category 3)
EPI-ZOSTER-030 VS US DB
Targeted safety study (TSS to evaluate the safety 
of Shingrix in adults  50 years of age in the U.S
(Category 3)
EPI-ZOSTER-032 VS US DB
Targeted safety study (TSS to evaluate the safety 
of Shingrix in adults  65 years of age in the U.S
Purpose of the study
To investigate long term efficacy, safety and 
immunogenicity, as well as to assess 
reactogenicity, safety and immunogenicity of one 
or two additional doses
To evaluate the safety of Shingrix in older adults 
(≥ 50 YOA) in the US.
To evaluate the safety of Shingrix in older adults 
(≥ 65 YOA) in the US
Study short name
(Category 3)
ZOSTER-062
Immunogenicity and safety study of Shingrix on a 
two-dose schedule in adults ≥ 50 years of age 
with a prior episode of Herpes Zoster
(Category 3)
EPI-ZOSTER-031
Effectiveness of Shingrix in preventing HZ, PHN
and other HZ-related complication
(Category 3)
ZOSTER-073
Long term immunogenicity study and assessment 
of revaccination with 2 additional doses in adult 
renal transplant participants from ZOSTER-041
Purpose of the study
To assess safety, immunogenicity and 
reactogenicity of Shingrix in subjects with a 
previous history of Herpes Zoster.
To estimate the effectiveness of Shingrix in 
preventing HZ, PHN and HZO in US subjects 
aged 50 years and above, overall and by age 
groups.
To estimate long-term vaccine effectiveness up to 
10 years after vaccination with Shingrix.
To evaluate long term immunogenicity and safety 
as well as reactogenicity, safety and 
immunogenicity of revaccination with two 
additional doses in adult renal transplant subjects 
from the study ZOSTER-041.
