23 September 2022 
EMA/706012/2022 Rev.11 
Shortage of Metalyse (tenecteplase) 
8,000 units (40 mg) and 10,000 units (50 mg) powder and solvent for 
solution for injection 
Indication 
Metalyse is used to treat adults suspected of having an 
acute myocardial infarction (heart attack) within six hours 
of the first symptoms appearing. It is used to dissolve the 
blood clots that have formed inside the blood vessels 
supplying the heart. 
Reason for shortage  
There has been an increase in demand for Metalyse due to 
a rise in the number of eligible patients, which cannot be 
met by the current manufacturing capacity. This has led to 
a supply shortage that is expected to last into 2025. 
Member States affected2 
All EU Member States where the product is currently 
marketed. 
Monitoring of shortage 
EMA’s SPOC working party3 is closely monitoring the supply 
Information to healthcare 
professionals  
situation and engaging with the marketing authorisation 
holder and other stakeholders to identify measures to 
mitigate the impact of the supply shortage (including the 
measures below).  
Summaries of the SPOC working party meetings can found 
on EMA’s website. 
•  An increase in demand for Metalyse cannot be met by 
the current manufacturing capacity. This has led to a 
supply shortage that is expected to last into 2025. 
•  A new manufacturing site will be set up over the coming 
years to increase the manufacturing capacity.  
• 
The shelf life of Metalyse has been extended from 24 to 
36 months.  
•  Healthcare professionals should use existing supplies in 
the most efficient way possible. This means using them 
1 The document was revised on 10 May 2023 to indicate that the shortage is expected to last into 2025 and to 
reflect ongoing monitoring by EMA’s Medicines Shortages Single Point of Contact (SPOC) working party. 
2 This information may change. For up-to-date information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State, contact the national competent authority. 
3 The SPOC working party is responsible for monitoring and reporting events that could affect the supply of 
medicines in the EU. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Metalyse (tenecteplase) 
8,000 units (40 mg) and 10,000 units (50 mg) powder and solvent for 
solution for injection 
only for patients within the approved indications and 
avoiding unnecessary wastage. 
•  A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) 
has been sent to healthcare professionals in affected 
Member States. The DHPC is also available on the EMA 
website.  
•  Additional advice, including information on alternatives, 
may be available from the national competent 
authority. 
Information to patients  
• 
The current manufacturing capacity for Metalyse cannot 
meet an increase in demand for this medicine. As a 
result, shortages have occurred. 
•  A new manufacturing site will be set up in the coming 
years to increase the manufacturing capacity. 
• 
In the meantime, healthcare professionals have been 
asked to optimise use of supplies. 
• 
Your doctor may prescribe a suitable alternative. 
•  Speak to your doctor or pharmacist if you have any 
questions. 
•  Additional advice may be available from the national 
competent authority. 
Status 
Ongoing 
Shortage of Metalyse (tenecteplase) 
EMA/706012/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
