7 February 2024 
EMA/137143/2023 Rev. 11 
Shortage of Ixiaro (Japanese encephalitis vaccine (inactivated, 
adsorbed)) 
suspension for injection 
Indication 
Ixiaro is a vaccine used in adults and children aged 2 
months and older to help protect against Japanese 
encephalitis, a disease that causes inflammation of the 
brain. 
Reason for shortage  
The company that markets Ixiaro is experiencing 
manufacturing problems. This affects an existing shortage 
of Ixiaro resulting from an increase in demand. The 
shortage is expected to last until June 2024 in most 
EU/EEA countries. The shortage is not related to a safety 
issue. 
Member States affected 
The supply shortage affects all EU/EEA Member States. For 
up-to-date information about the status of a medicine 
shortage in a particular EU/EEA Member State, consult the 
national shortage register or contact the national 
competent authority. 
Monitoring of shortage 
EMA’s SPOC working party is closely monitoring the supply 
Information for healthcare 
professionals  
situation and engaging with the marketing authorisation 
holder to identify measures to mitigate the impact of the 
supply shortage.  
Summaries of the SPOC working party meetings can be 
found on EMA’s website. 
• 
The company holding the marketing authorisation for 
Ixiaro, Valneva Austria GmbH, is experiencing 
manufacturing problems. This is impacting on an 
already existing shortage of Ixiaro due to an increase 
in demand and has led to a shortage of the vaccine in 
all EU/EEA Member States.  
• 
Please consult your country’s national shortage 
register for further advice, including advice on the 
availability of Ixiaro in your country. 
Information for public  
• 
The company holding the marketing authorisation for 
Ixiaro is experiencing manufacturing problems. This is 
1 This document was first published on 25 May 2023. It was modified on 7 February 2024 to include information 
about a manufacturing problem impacting an already existing shortage and to update the Member States affected.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Ixiaro (Japanese encephalitis vaccine (inactivated, 
adsorbed)) 
suspension for injection 
impacting on an already existing shortage of Ixiaro 
due to an increase in demand and has led to a 
shortage of the vaccine in all EU/EEA Member States.  
• 
Please consult your doctor or pharmacist for any 
questions and for advice on current availability of 
Ixiaro. 
•  Alternatively you can also consult your country’s 
national shortage register for further information.  
Status 
Ongoing 
Shortage of Ixiaro (Japanese encephalitis vaccine (inactivated, adsorbed)) 
EMA/137143/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
