PART VI:   SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR SIBNAYAL 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for SIBNAYAL® also called during 
development ADV7103. The RMP details important risks of SIBNAYAL, how these risks can 
be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  SIBNAYAL's  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
SIBNAYAL's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how SIBNAYAL should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for SIBNAYAL should be read in the context of all this information 
including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
SIBNAYAL's RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
SIBNAYAL is indicated for treatment of distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) in patients aged 
one year and older (see SmPC for the full indication). It is a fixed combination of two active 
substances,  potassium  citrate  and  potassium  hydrogen  carbonate,  as  prolonged  release 
granules  which  when  orally  administered,  are  slowly  released  throughout  the  gastro-
intestinal tract, providing a prolonged effect for 12 hours after administration allowing a 
twice daily administration.  
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  SIBNAYAL’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
SIBNAYAL’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sibnayal.  
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
II. 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of SIBNAYAL, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about SIBNAYAL's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
ADVICENNE does not plan to perform any risk minimisation activities in relation to the 
use of SIBNAYAL other than routine risk minimisation measures.  
Information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly analysed, 
including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate action can 
be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
ADVICENNE does not plan to perform any pharmacovigilance activities outside of routine 
activities and measures in relation to SIBNAYAL nor has ADVICENNE received any 
request to perform any such activity. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of SIBNAYAL are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
SIBNAYAL. 
Potential risks of SIBNAYAL are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation.  
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified 
risks 
Risk of hyperkalaemia when used in patients with 
comorbidities such as renal impairment 
Important potential 
risks 
None 
Missing information 
None 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risks 
Risk of hyperkalaemia when used in patients with comorbidities such as 
renal impairment 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The use of SIBNAYAL in patients with severe renal 
impairment, or any other condition which may 
significantly reduce renal potassium excretion, may 
lead to accumulation of potassium leading to 
hyperkalaemia, which can be life threatening in 
severe cases. 
Certain groups, particularly those with impaired 
kidney excretion of potassium, are sensitive to 
adverse effects of increasing potassium intake on 
heart function associated with increases in plasma 
potassium.  
The effects of potassium are seen earlier and are 
more pronounced when underlying conduction 
defects are already present, such as in the elderly 
with cardiac disease and those patients taking 
pharmacological cardiac depressants.  
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  SmPC section 4.2 
•  SmPC section 4.4 
•  SmPC section 4.6 
•  SmPC section 4.9 
•  PL section 2 (Warnings and precautions) 
Important potential risks 
Not applicable. 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable.  
 
 
 
 
