15 April 2021 
EMA/OD/0000032257 
EMADOC-1700519818-656129 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Sibnayal (tripotassium citrate monohydrate and potassium hydrogen 
carbonate) 
Treatment of distal renal tubular acidosis 
EU/3/17/1888 
Sponsor: Advicenne    
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 6 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 8 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032257 
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Tripotassium citrate monohydrate and potassium 
Other name(s) 
hydrogen carbonate 
ADV7103 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Potassium hydrogen carbonate 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Potassium citrate monohydrate 
Sibnayal 
Treatment of distal renal tubular acidosis  
Advicenne    
22 Rue de La Paix 
75002 Paris 
France  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number  
Advicenne  
19 May 2017 
20 June 2017 
EU/3/17/1888 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
J. Lodewijk Hillege / T. Radimersky 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Advicenne   
9 November 2019 
28 November 2019 
EMEA/H/C/005407/0000 
Sibnayal 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Sibnayal is indicated for the treatment of distal renal 
tubular acidosis (dRTA) in adults, adolescents and 
children aged one year and older. 
Further information on Sibnayal can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EP
CHMP opinion date 
AR/Sibnayal  
10 December 2020  
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
E. J. Rook / L. Gaidadzi  
Sponsor’s report submission 
25 March 2020 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
3 December 2020  
questions  
Oral explanation  
Sponsor’s removal request  
17 March 2021 
18 March 2021 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032257 
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2017 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
The sponsor Advicenne S.A. submitted on 27 January 2017 an application for designation as an orphan 
medicinal product to the European Medicines Agency for a medicinal product containing tripotassium 
citrate monohydrate and potassium hydrogen carbonate for treatment of distal renal tubular acidosis 
(hereinafter referred to as “the condition”). The application was submitted on the basis of Article 
3(1)(a) first paragraph of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products. 
Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the following: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing tripotassium citrate 
monohydrate and potassium hydrogen carbonate was considered justified based on preliminary 
clinical data showing restoration of serum bicarbonate levels in affected patients; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to sensorineural hearing loss, restricted growth, rickets 
and nephrolithiasis and life threatening with mortality reported as high as approximately 10% for 
some groups of affected patients; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 2.1 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made. 
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing tripotassium citrate monohydrate and potassium hydrogen carbonate will be of 
significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The sponsor has provided preliminary clinical data 
that support restoration of serum bicarbonate levels, which compare favourably to existing treatments. 
The Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Distal renal tubular acidosis was the first type of RTA identified and is thus also known as type I RTA. 
It is characterized by impaired renal acid secretion, initially with normal glomerular filtration rate (GFR) 
causing hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. This leads to the excretion of alkaline urine relative to 
systemic metabolic acidosis. Hypokalaemia is frequently associated with dRTA.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032257 
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
 
 
In its primary (inherited) form distal RTA is described as a rare disease in the literature (Palazzo 
Kidney Int 2017 Feb20) and is assumed to be caused by mutations in SLC4A1 (encoding an anion 
exchanger), ATP6V0A4 and ATP6V1B1 (subunits of H+ATPase). Two novel homozygous missense 
recessive mutations were identified recently in patients with dRTA: in FOXI1 that encodes a 
transcription factor important for acid-secreting epithelia (Enerbäck et al 2017), in WDR72 that is 
thought to be involved in intracellular trafficking potentially affecting targeting of acid-base regulatory 
proteins (Rungroj et al 2018). The phenotype of these 2 new mutations mimic the renal findings of 
patients with the first 3 identified mutations, and patients with FOXI1 present also with early-onset 
sensorineural deafness (Enerbäck et al 2017). The primary form of distal RTA may present with various 
degrees of severity and is usually detected in infants. Clinical features may include sensorineural 
hearing loss, vomiting, obtundation, restricted growth, rickets and nephrolithiasis. (Yaxley and Pirrone, 
2016) 
In addition to the primary form there are also secondary (acquired) forms that are usually seen in 
adults, and are secondary to autoimmune diseases (such as Sjogren and SLE), exposure to 
nephrotoxins (such as amphotericin B and lithium), but also other instances such as obstructive 
nephropathy, pyelonephritis, primary hyperparathyroidism, intravascular volume depletion and chronic 
kidney disease of any cause (Yaxley and Pirrone, 2016). 
The approved therapeutic indication “treatment of distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) in adults, 
adolescents and children aged one year and older” falls within the scope of the designated orphan 
condition “treatment of distal renal tubular acidosis”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
However, in the final assessment report it is stated that a formal claim on non-inferiority and 
superiority cannot be made due to several issues on the robustness of the study design and conduct, 
such as the lack of titration of an optimal dose for standard of care (SoC) treatment, as a comparator 
and the sequential study design. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
There has been no change to the seriousness of the condition since the orphan designation in 2017.  
The sponsor suggests that newly available data further substantiates and reinforce the prior findings 
on the chronically debilitating nature of dRTA, as it has been shown that without the adequate control 
of the metabolic acidosis, dRTA leads to kidney impairment as early as in childhood and absence of 
pubertal growth. If left untreated, dRTA is still considered a highly debilitating condition which can be 
life-threatening as it can irreversibly deteriorate renal function, weaken muscle strength, cause hearing 
loss, affect bone structure and result in adults of short stature. 
At the time the condition was considered chronically debilitating due to sensorineural hearing loss, 
restricted growth, rickets and nephrolithiasis and life threatening with mortality reported as high as 
approximately 10% for some groups of affected patients. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor performed a bibliographical search (general as well as orphan specific databases) in order 
to update the prevalence estimation of dRTA. Since the agreement on the prevalence of dRTA during 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032257 
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
 
 
ADV7103 ODD assessment in June 2017, the sponsor found no new significant publications providing 
information to re-evaluate dRTA prevalence at the European level.  
As the prevalence for dRTA is not known in total inherited and acquired dRTA were calculated 
separately: 
• 
• 
The sponsor used an estimation of the prevalence of inherited dRTA calculated from the available 
data.  
For acquired dRTA, the prevalence per underlying disease/aetiology was calculated from the 
available data using the prevalence of the underlying disease and an estimate of the proportion of 
patients within that disease with dRTA. A two-step approach was undertaken (calculation of the 
prevalence of the aetiology then the proportion of patients presenting dRTA within the aetiology). 
As there were no new contributing factors the sponsor concludes on the same prevalence as for the 
orphan designation: The estimated prevalence for dRTA ranges from 0.699 to 2.14 per 10,000 persons 
and is considered unchanged at the time of this maintenance report submission, i.e. affecting no more 
than 2.1 per 10,000 persons in Europe. This estimate can be accepted at time of marketing 
authorisation as well. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
No new treatment has been registered since the orphan designation, meaning that the same medicinal 
products and pharmacy/hospital compounded products which were detailed in the initial application are 
still in use to treat patients with dRTA, whether a child or an adult with an inherited or an acquired 
dRTA. 
The sponsor has identified several alkalising salts being authorised in the EU for broader indications 
covering dRTA. These include immediate release product containing potassium citrate and potassium 
bicarbonate, each in different product combinations. There is also a modified release potassium citrate 
coated tablet (Acalka) authorised in Spain and Portugal for the treatment of (amongst others) renal 
lithiasis. The sponsor also confirms that there are pharmacy formulations reported to be used, 
containing the proposed active substances. 
The products authorised for the treatment of “metabolic acidosis” can indeed be considered to cover 
the proposed target population for Sibnayal, because dRTA is a type of metabolic acidosis. 
Significant benefit 
According to the sponsor, the overall intent of ADV7103 development programme is to deliver the 
necessary alkali and potassium coverage with a twice-daily administration (morning and evening) 
using a formulation that has been specifically developed for patients with dRTA, including paediatric 
patients. This contrasts with various existing alkali therapies, which were not developed specifically for 
the dRTA patient population. These therapies, which are mostly immediate release formulations, are 
not able to provide the appropriate coverage without multiple intakes during the day and at night. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032257 
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
 
 
Multiple intakes are known to cause treatment compliance issues, which can negatively impact the 
management of the of dRTA (Kruse et al 1991; Claxton et al. 2001; Penfornis 2003). 
The main arguments for significant benefit are: 
1.  Superior efficacy for the treatment of dRTA. 
2.  Improved product attributes/acceptability to treat dRTA (which contributes to the improved efficacy 
as well as a major contribution to patient care). 
3.  Improved standardisation of dRTA treatment. 
To support these claims the sponsor refers to the results of Study B21CS. The study met its non-
inferiority primary endpoint and the primary endpoint was then tested for superiority. 
An improvement with normalisation of blood bicarbonate levels and less variability were reported with 
ADV7103 compared to SoC. This analysis showed a statistically significant (p-value = 0.0008) higher 
level of blood bicarbonate with treatment with ADV7103 compared to treatment with SoC, with a 
difference of 1.6 mmol/L (95% CI: 0.6679, 2.6034). 
According to the sponsor, the primary endpoint associated non-responder analyses (non-responder 
patients with bicarbonateamia values below normal ranges) showed a superiority of ADV7103 
compared to SoC based on the raw proportions that were also statistically significant. 
Such assertions are to be considered with caution. The CHMP did not accept a formal claim on non-
inferiority and superiority due to several issues on the robustness of the study design and conduct. For 
this reason, it cannot be claimed that there is a clinically relevant advantage over the alternative 
treatments (SoC). 
A significant benefit based on a major contribution to patient care (improved product 
attributes/acceptability to treat dRTA) can only be discussed and accepted if the product has shown to 
have similar efficacy and safety as the recognised satisfactory methods, in this case the SoC. It also 
requires data to support it (e.g. PROs). As this has not been shown, a claim of significant benefit 
cannot be supported.  
An improved standardisation of treatment would per se not be considered in support of a significant 
benefit as it does not translate into a measurable benefit for the patient.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032257 
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The sponsor will be invited to further discuss the justification of significant benefit. 
4.  COMP list of issues 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor is requested to further justify the significant benefit, with any arguments, since a formal 
claim on non-inferiority and superiority versus standard of care has been dismissed by the CHMP. This 
was due to several issues on the robustness of the study design and conduct. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032257 
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
