EMA/698223/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005407 
Sibnayal (potassium citrate / potassium hydrogen 
carbonate) 
An overview of Sibnayal and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Sibnayal and what is it used for? 
Sibnayal is a medicine used to treat patients from the age of one year with distal renal tubular acidosis 
(dRTA), a disease in which the kidneys do not remove acid through the urine well enough. This results 
in a build-up of acid in the blood, which leads to a range of symptoms including hearing and growth 
problems, vomiting, kidney stones and lack of alertness. The disease also causes levels of potassium in 
the blood to fall, which can lead to muscle weakness and paralysis. 
Sibnayal contains the active substances potassium citrate and potassium hydrogen carbonate. 
How is Sibnayal used? 
Sibnayal is available as prolonged-release granules to be taken by mouth, and can only be obtained 
with a prescription. Prolonged release means that the active substance in Sibnayal is released slowly 
into the body over a few hours after being taken. The starting dose depends on the age and body 
weight of the patient, and is gradually increased to obtain the optimal dose that provides adequate 
control of acid and potassium levels in the blood. Sibnayal is taken twice daily, typically twelve hours 
apart. 
For more information about using Sibnayal, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Sibnayal work? 
Sibnayal contains a combination of two salts, potassium citrate and potassium hydrogen carbonate. 
Because the combination is alkaline and contains potassium, it neutralises excess acid in the blood and 
restores levels of potassium, thus relieving the symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Sibnayal have been shown in studies? 
One study in 37 patients with dRTA showed that Sibnayal was effective at reducing the level of acid 
and normalising the level of potassium in the blood.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Patients were first treated with their usual medicines for neutralising excess acid for 5 days, then 
switched to Sibnayal. The optimal dose of Sibnayal was reached gradually over 30 days, after which 
patients were given this dose for at least 5 days.  
The large majority (90%) of patients had a reduction in blood acid levels during treatment with 
Sibnayal, and this effect was generally maintained during 24 months of treatment. In addition, blood 
potassium levels returned to normal in 83% of patients. The corresponding figures during treatment 
with other medicines were 45% and 82%, respectively. 
What are the risks associated with Sibnayal? 
The most common side effects with Sibnayal (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is abdominal 
(belly) pain. Nausea (feeling sick) at start of treatment, stomach pain and gut pain may affect up to 1 
in 10 people. For the full list of side effects of Sibnayal, see the package leaflet. 
Sibnayal must not be used in patients with moderately or severely impaired kidney function and in 
patients with hyperkalaemia (high blood potassium levels). For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Sibnayal authorised in the EU? 
Sibnayal was shown to be effective at reducing the level of acid and normalising the level of potassium 
in dRTA patients’ blood. The safety of Sibnayal was considered acceptable, and its side effects 
manageable and in line with other treatments for this disease. The European Medicines Agency 
therefore decided that Sibnayal’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sibnayal? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sibnayal have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sibnayal are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Sibnayal are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Sibnayal 
Sibnayal received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 30 April 2021. 
Further information on Sibnayal can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/sibnayal.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2021. 
Sibnayal (potassium citrate / potassium hydrogen carbonate)  
EMA/698223/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
