18 December 2013 
EMA/157197/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Sifrol 
International non-proprietary name: pramipexole 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002491/201304 
Period covered by the PSUR:  7 April 2010 – 6 April 2013 
 Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSURs for pramipexole, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
Based on evidence from clinical trials data showing an increased reporting rate of cases of delirium in 
patients receiving pramipexole treatment as compared to placebo as well as in light of post-marketing 
reports of cases of mania and delirium, the PRAC concluded that a causal relationship of these events 
with the use of pramipexole could not be excluded. The PRAC acknowledged the difficulties in 
diagnosing and recognizing mania and delirium in patients due to the fluctuating nature of these 
conditions, the significant overlap of symptomatology between different conditions, and complexity in 
differential diagnosis of psychiatric diseases. Hence, the cumulative number of 191 cases reported 
post-marketing, of which the majority had been confirmed by healthcare professionals, was considered 
substantial, even though the PRAC acknowledged that some of the cases would have been likely 
attributed to other causes. Furthermore, biomedical understanding of these mental illnesses, in 
particular for delirium for which an association with a surplus of dopamine as well as with use of 
dopamine agonists has been suggested in the scientific literature, were considered further supportive 
of a possible causal association. 
In conclusion, since there was at least a reasonable suspicion of mania and delirium to be adverse 
reactions to pramipexole treatment, and taking into account the seriousness of these conditions and 
that early diagnosis is crucial, the PRAC considered that changes to the product information were 
warranted to inform healthcare professionals and patients accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pramipexole the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal products containing the active substance pramipexole is favourable 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisations should be varied. 
Sifrol  
EMA/157197/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
