PART VI
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR SIFROL/MIRAPEXIN 
(PRAMIPEXOLE)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Sifrol/Mirapexin. The RMP 
details important risks of pramipexole, how these risks are minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about Sifrol/Mirapexin's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information).
Sifrol/Mirapexin's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Sifrol/Mirapexin should 
be used.
This summary of the RMP for Sifrol/Mirapexin should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Sifrol/Mirapexin’s RMP.
I.
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
Sifrol/Mirapexin tablets, including prolonged release tablets are authorised in adults for the 
treatment of signs and symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (PD), alone (without 
levodopa) or in combination with levodopa, i.e. over the course of the disease, through to late 
stages when the effect of levodopa wears off or becomes inconsistent and fluctuations of the 
therapeutic effect occur (end of dose or “on/off” fluctuations). Sifrol/Mirapexin tablets are 
indicated in adults for symptomatic treatment of moderate to severe idiopathic Restless legs 
syndrome (RLS) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains pramipexole as the active 
substance and it is given by oral administration.
Further information about the evaluation of Sifrol/Mirapexin’s benefits can be found in 
Sifrol/Mirapexin’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage.
II.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS
Important risks of Sifrol/Mirapexin, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Sifrol/Mirapexin’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
-
-
-
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
-
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed including Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Report assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
II.A
List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Sifrol/Mirapexin are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Sifrol/Mirapexin. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Important identified risks

Impulse control disorders (ICDs) such as compulsive shopping, 
pathological gambling, hypersexuality, binge eating and other 
impulse control behaviour
 Hallucinations and confusion

Cardiac failure
Important potential risks
Missing information
 Dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome (DAWS)
 Dystonia (such as antecollis, camptocormia, pleurothotonus)
 None
List of important risks and missing information
Summary of important risks
II.B
Important identified risk: Impulse control disorders such as compulsive shopping, pathological 
gambling, hypersexuality, binge eating and other impulse control behaviour
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
ICDs are considered a class effect of dopamine agonists including pramipexole. 
However, non-pharmacological risk factors have also been identified for the patient 
population. The incidence figures reported in published literature to date vary widely, 
seemingly dependent on individual study methodology and differing populations 
assessed. In addition, country specific and cultural differences in the frequencies and 
reporting of ICDs are likely. Controlled prospective studies are lacking. General 
occurrence of ICDs in pramipexole placebo-controlled trials across both indications 
was low. Based on clinical and post authorisation data, ICDs, such as binge eating, 
compulsive shopping, pathological gambling, hypersexuality and other abnormal 
behaviour were defined as an important identified risk for pramipexole.
II.B Summary of important risks (cont’d)
Important identified risk: Impulse control disorders such as compulsive shopping, pathological 
gambling, hypersexuality, binge eating and other impulse control behaviour (cont’d)
Risk factors and 
risk groups
ICDs have been observed more commonly in patients treated with a dopamine agonist 
than in patients not taking a dopamine agonist (17.1% vs. 6.9%; odds ratio [OR]=2.72; 
95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.08, 3.54; P<0.001). ICD frequency was similar for 
pramipexole and ropinirole (17.7% vs. 15.5%; OR=1.22; 95% CI: 0.94, 1.57; P=0.14). 
Although dopamine replacement therapy is reported to be the main risk factor for the 
occurrence of ICDs in PD patients, non-pharmacological risk factors for ICDs have 
also been identified in that population, such as early age at disease onset, male gender, 
personal or family history of alcohol abuse or pathological gambling, novelty seeking 
personality, and cognitive or psychiatric disorders.
ICDs have also been reported in RLS patients. Some studies have reported that even 
untreated patients with RLS had preferences toward ‘risky choices’ in the Iowa 
Gambling Task), which could lead to the development of impulse control disorders. 
Thus, ICDs in idiopathic RLS may be due to not only dopaminergic treatment but also 
to a specific predisposition profile associated with the disorder. Furthermore, PD 
patients with RLS reported significantly more ICDs than those without RLS (50% vs. 
26%, P=0.03), especially compulsive eating disorders, and a different psycho-
behavioural profile with more hyperdopaminergic behaviour, and therefore it has been 
postulated that RLS per se could be a risk factor for impulsive behaviour in PD.
Risk minimisation 
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.8.
Package Leaflet (PL) section 2 and 4.
Prescription-only medicine.
Additional risk minimisation measures: None.
Important identified risk: Hallucinations and confusion
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
Hallucinations and confusion are recognised side effects of dopamine agonist therapy 
and are included in the SmPCs. In placebo-controlled trials across both indications, 
6.78% pramipexole-treated patients reported hallucination and confusion vs. 3.37% in 
the placebo group.
A facilitating role of treatment on PD-associated psychosis is demonstrated at least for 
dopaminergic agonists, but there is no simple dose-effect relationship between 
dopaminergic treatment, and the presence or severity of hallucinations. The main 
endogenous non-modifiable risk factor is cognitive impairment. Other associated 
factors include older age/longer duration of PD, disease severity, altered dream 
phenomena, daytime somnolence, and possibly depression and dysautonomia. In a 12-
year follow-up study on 230 PD patients from Norway, the independent risk factors 
for new-onset PD-associated psychosis were higher levodopa-equivalent dose at 
baseline (OR=1.26 per 100 mg; 95% CI: 1.06, 1.50; P=0.01), probable rapid eye 
movement sleep behaviour disorder at baseline (OR=3.52; 95% CI: 1.27, 9.79; 
P=0.02), higher age at motor onset (OR=1.07; 95% CI: 1.02, 1.12; P=0.003), and 
follow-up time (OR=1.19; 95% CI: 1.08, 1.32; P=0.001).
II.B Summary of important risks (cont’d)
Important identified risk: Hallucinations and confusion (cont’d)
Risk minimisation 
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
SmPC section 4.4, 4.7 and 4.8.
PL section 2 and 4.
Prescription-only medicine.
Additional risk minimisation measures: None.
Important identified risk: Cardiac failure
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
Risk minimisation 
measures
General occurrence of cardiac failure in placebo-controlled trials with pramipexole 
across both indications was low. An epidemiological study on the use of pramipexole 
and other dopamine agonists (trial 248.672) showed that the rate of heart failure was 
increased with the current use of any dopamine agonist compared to no use. The use 
of pramipexole was not associated with an increased rate of heart failure when 
compared to all other dopamine agonists collectively. However, due to its medical 
relevance, BI has taken a conservative approach and has considered cardiac failure an 
important identified risk for pramipexole. In a recent meta-analysis, the use of non-
ergot dopamine agonists in PD patients was not associated with an increased risk of 
incident heart failure, nor was it shown to increase the overall mortality, or the risk of 
cardiovascular events compared to the PD patients on monotherapy with levodopa 
alone.
The main risk factors for heart failure are cardiovascular disease and the risk factors 
associated with coronary heart disease (such as hypertension and 
hypercholesterolaemia), as well as components of the metabolic syndrome such as 
insulin resistance. Recent literature has postulated a potential association between PD 
and myocardial dysfunction in terms of left ventricular hypertrophy, concentric 
remodelling and diastolic dysfunction.
Routine risk minimisation measures:
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.8.
PL section 2 and 4.
Prescription-only medicine.
Additional risk minimisation measures: None.
Important identified risk: Dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome (DAWS)
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
DAWS has been described in the literature to be a withdrawal syndrome consisting of 
non-motor symptoms, such as apathy, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sweating and pain, 
that occurs among patients who undergo tapering of their dose of dopamine agonist 
therapy. An association between administration of pramipexole and DAWS has so far 
not been established by BI. Post-authorisation data do not allow to assess the reported 
‘withdrawal symptoms’ with regard to ‘DAWS’ due to missing case details such as 
de-challenge and re-challenge information. The reported symptoms could equally 
likely resemble titration effects after dose reduction, neuroleptic malignant syndrome 
after acute drug withdrawal, or be part of the complex clinical course, e.g. 
pre-existing/concomitant psychiatric disorders of the PD patient population. 
Concerning the RLS indication, the described symptoms more likely resemble 
symptoms of augmentation or rebound, both of which are described in the SmPC. The 
literature is comprised largely of retrospective (or preliminary) findings and 
understanding of this symptom complex is still evolving. However, BI has taken a 
conservative approach and has added DAWS to the important identified risks, as 
requested by the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee in 2016.
II.B Summary of important risks (cont’d)
Important identified risk: Dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome (DAWS) (cont’d)
Risk factors and 
risk groups
DAWS has been predominantly reported in patients with PD. Thus, the question was 
raised as to whether PD itself or the higher dopamine agonist doses that are used in PD 
may be a risk factor for DAWS. The presence of ICDs and higher dopaminergic doses 
are thought to be the main risk factors for the development of DAWS, and in this 
context, it has been speculated that these patients may have a higher susceptibility to 
addiction syndromes. A study has shown that among patients with ICDs, the 
additional history of smoking increased the likelihood of DAWS, which again raised 
the question of general vulnerability to addiction. In the same study, DAWS was not 
found to be associated with any specific type of dopamine agonist, or the speed of 
taper or total vs. partial withdrawal of the dopamine agonist. Not only higher daily 
dose of dopamine agonists and the duration of dopamine agonist use are thought to be 
risk factors, but also concomitant prescription of levodopa. Recent data on DAWS 
have shown that patients with deep brain stimulation may have a higher risk.
Risk minimisation 
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.8.
Prescription-only medicine.
Additional risk minimisation measures: None.
Important potential risk: Dystonia (such as antecollis, camptocormia, pleurothotonus)
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
Dystonia is a disabling movement disorder characterised by sustained contraction of 
muscles that may affect various parts of the body and may be associated with various 
central nervous system disorders including PD and multiple system atrophy. While 
drugs such as neuroleptics are known to potentially cause dystonia, the specific role of 
dopamine agonists in the development of posture abnormalities is unclear. The 
frequency of the observed events in placebo-controlled clinical trials with pramipexole 
was lower than that observed in placebo-treated patients. Post-authorisation data are 
limited and based on individual case reports. PD patients are reported with dystonia 
during adjustment of various dopaminergic drugs. Thus, dystonia is considered likely 
explained by disease progression or titration effects of dopaminergic drugs, 
respectively. Based on the case details available, it cannot be clarified how 
pramipexole may potentially contribute to the events. After having reviewed post 
authorisation data, it was concluded that there is no clear causal relationship for all 
forms of dystonia; however, there seems to be at least a reasonable suspicion of a 
causal relationship for ‘antecollis’ (forward flexion of the head and neck). Less 
evidence for causality was found for other forms of dystonia, such as camptocormia 
(bent spine syndrome) and pleurothotonus (Pisa syndrome). However, BI has followed 
a conservative approach and considered dystonia (such as antecollis, camptocormia, 
pleurothotonus) an important potential risk for pramipexole, in agreement with 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee’s proposal in 2017.
In addition to the mainly affected PD patient population, the safety information 
available did not indicate specific risk factors regarding dystonia in patients treated 
with pramipexole. Post-authorisation data indicate that PD patients experience 
dystonia during dose adjustment of various dopaminergic drugs. Thus, dystonia is 
considered likely explained by disease progression or titration effects of dopaminergic 
drugs.
Risk minimisation 
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
SmPC section 4.4.
Prescription-only medicine.
Additional risk minimisation measures: None.
II.C
Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or are a specific 
obligation for Sifrol/Mirapexin.
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
There are no ongoing or planned additional pharmacovigilance studies or other activities in 
the pharmacovigilance plan.
ABBREVIATIONS
BI
CI
DAWS
EPAR
ICD
OR
PD
PL
RLS
RMP
SmPC
US
Boehringer Ingelheim
Confidence interval
Dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome
European Public Assessment Report
Impulse control disorders
Odds ratio
Parkinson’s disease
Package Leaflet
Restless legs syndrome
Risk management plan
Summary of Product Characteristics
United States (of America)
