27 October 2022 
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding 
with tozinameran / Comirnaty (COVID-19 mRNA vaccine) 
EPITT no: 19783 
Procedure no: SDA 053.1 
Confirmation assessment report 
Adoption of first PRAC recommendation 
Preliminary assessment report on additional data 
Deadline for comments 
Updated rapporteur assessment report 
Adoption of second PRAC recommendation 
Preliminary assessment report on additional data 
Deadline for comments 
Updated rapporteur assessment report 
Adoption of third PRAC recommendation 
04 February 2022 
10 February 2022 
16 May 2022 
30 May 2022 
03 June 2022 
10 June 2022 
03 Oct 2022 
17 Oct 2022 
20 Oct 2022 
27 Oct 2022 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance(s) (invented name)  
Tozinameran / Comirnaty (COVID-19 mRNA 
Marketing authorisation holder(s) 
BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
vaccine) 
Authorisation procedure  
  Centralised 
  Mutual recognition or decentralised 
  National 
Adverse event/reaction:  
Heavy menstrual bleeding 
Signal validated by: 
Date of circulation of signal validation 
report: 
Signal confirmed by: 
Date of confirmation: 
NO 
NL 
04-02-2022 
PRAC Rapporteur appointed for the 
David Benee Olsen (NO) 
assessment of the signal: 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 2/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background ............................................................................................. 4 
2. Initial evidence ........................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Signal validation ................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Signal confirmation ............................................................................................. 14 
2.3. Proposed recommendation .................................................................................. 15 
2.4. Adopted PRAC recommendation ........................................................................... 16 
3. Additional evidence ............................................................................... 19 
3.1. Assessment of additional data .............................................................................. 19 
3.1.1. Supplementary information from Trogstad et.al. .................................................. 19 
3.1.2. Supplementary information from Caspersen et.al ................................................ 20 
3.1.3. Assessment of response ................................................................................... 21 
3.2. Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation ................................................................ 40 
3.3. Comments from other PRAC members and MAH(s) ................................................. 40 
3.4. Updated rapporteur's proposed recommendation .................................................... 50 
3.5. Adopted PRAC recommendation ........................................................................... 51 
4. 2nd assessment round ............................................................................ 53 
4.1. Assessment of additional data .............................................................................. 53 
4.1.1. Supplementary information from Trogstad et al ................................................... 53 
4.1.2. Assessment of MAH response to RfSI ................................................................. 53 
4.2. Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation ................................................................ 74 
4.3. Comments from other PRAC members and MAH ..................................................... 74 
4.4. Updated rapporteur’s proposed recommendation .................................................... 87 
4.5. Adopted PRAC recommendation ........................................................................... 87 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 3/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background 
The broad clinical issue of “menstrual disorders” was reviewed in the 9th MSSR for Comirnaty. The 
conclusion by the PRAC Rapporteur in the 9th Monthly Summary Safety report with a DLP of 31 August 
2021 was the following: “It is therefore agreed with the MAH that currently the data do not support a 
safety issue. Closure of this safety signal is accepted.” 
However, the issue of menstrual disturbances is somewhat difficult to analyse, due to the range of 
clinical entities included, the difficulty in estimating their background incidences in relevant populations 
and the fact that reports are mainly from patients and lacking thorough clinical evaluation. Given the 
many different symptoms and reactions included in the topic “Menstrual disorders”, the signalling MS 
NO finds it necessary to extract those reactions/patterns that we consider the most severe and 
evaluate these in separate signal procedures. This would make the assessment more tailored to the 
reactions in question. 
The signalling MS NO believes that a new evaluation beyond routine pharmacovigilance is currently 
warranted, mainly for the following reasons: 
1.  The data have changed. Since the time of the 9th MSSR uAR Norway has received an increased 
numbers of reports of heavy menstrual bleeding. Most women of reproductive age (18-54 
years) in Norway were vaccinated from the beginning of summer 2021 and onwards. (Per 
31.05.21 312 849 doses of Comirnaty had been given to women aged 18 – 54. Per 15.11.21 
the exposure was 1 612 192, i.e., it had increased by a tenfold. The total population is 5.4 
million. Because of the time that has passed since the 9th MSSR uAR more reports of heavy 
menstrual bleedings have been received. 
2.  The time that has elapsed since the DLP of the 9th MSSR (31 Aug 2021) and the volume of 
reports. The number of post- marketing reports included in the review were 16 263. A more 
recent search in Vigibase per 14.01.22 yields a result of 81 602 reports globally within the 
HLGT ‘Menstrual cycle and uterine bleeding’, same search criteria as used by the MAH, i.e. the 
increase in number is substantial. We have gained more knowledge through an increased 
number of reports, which also means more qualitative information/details. 
3.  Based on our own ICSRs, we are under the impression that menstrual disorders are by far the 
most commonly reported ADRs from women. However, we do not have absolute numbers, due 
to a large volume of non-serious cases in backlog. Most of the reports of menstrual disorders 
are non-serious. In Norway, 4,2 million doses of Comirnaty and approximately 1 million doses 
of Spikevax has been given to women. NoMA has currently received approximately 50 000 
ICSRs in total after vaccination with the COVID-19 vaccines, 81% from women. We estimate 
through manual sampling and screening of incoming reports since June when the signal/issue 
was first raised nationally, that approximately 30% of reports received by women could be 
related to the issue of menstrual disturbances. The large amount of these reports, relative to 
the total amount of reports, is a new aspect that warrants our attention. 
Normally, a menstrual bleeding lasts around 2-7 days, and women lose about 3 to 5 tablespoons of 
blood in a period. 
Some reports are categorised as serious due to the long duration or due to hospitalisation. The blood 
loss has in some cases led to syncope, treatment with iron and blood transfusion(s). 
mRNA vaccines have been shown to be highly reactogenic and this could be a biologically plausible 
explanation through secondary stress on the hormonal system. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 4/87 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccination is a powerful immune stimulant. It is therefore plausible that the sensitive 
immune system of the endometrium is briefly modified by vaccination, thus potentially leading to 
menstrual disorders. However, no systematic investigations of the effect of COVID-19 vaccination on 
endometrial function have been carried out to date. A study designed specifically to investigate this 
relationship is currently ongoing at the Johns Hopkins Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics in the 
USA [1] 
General comments PRAC Rapporteur: 
Regarding (absolute) number of reports 
It is acknowledged that the absolute number of spontaneously reported cases is high, but this not 
unexpected taking into account the huge background incidence of menstrual disorders irrespective of 
COVID-19 vaccination, and the pandemic context with an unprecedented high number of administered 
doses of vaccines, and the large (social) media attention on this topic. 
Spontaneous reporting rates should be interpreted cautiously, as both underreporting and stimulated 
reporting [due to media attention] cannot be excluded. 
The observed differences in reporting rates between different vaccines should be interpreted 
cautiously. Although in the analysis of the NL cases reporting menstrual disorders Lareb adjusted for 
age group, other characteristics may differ between vaccines due to prioritization per targeted 
populations/risk groups (e.g. health care workers, subjects with comorbidities, healthy young adults).  
Confounding by (pre-)vaccination anxiety-/lockdown stress, undetected (corona)infections cannot be 
fully excluded at this moment. 
Regarding the adverse event(s) 
Menstrual disorders, i.e. changes in menstrual bleeding pattern are diverse and quite common among 
women, which hampers establishing a causal relation between the reported adverse event and 
vaccination. Symptoms are diverse (heavy menstrual bleeding [menorrhagia], amenorrhoea, 
oligomenorrhoea or irregular and intermenstrual blood loss) and, irrespective of vaccination, reported 
prevalence and incidence are varying per symptom from 6-90%. Consequently, it is challenging to 
assess whether the observed incidence of adverse events following vaccination would exceed the 
expected background incidence. 
In addition abnormal uterine bleeding can have diverse underlying causes (e.g. Polyp, Adenomyosis, 
Leiomyoma, Malignancy and hyperplasia of the uterus, blood coagulopathies, Ovulatory dysfunction 
[polycystic ovarian syndrome, metabolic syndrome], Endometrial dysfunction, thyroid malfunction, 
pituitary tumor, Iatrogenic, and "Not otherwise classified" [medication, infections, stress]) which 
should be carefully evaluated and excluded when assessing a potential causal role of the vaccine. 
Examples of medication are hormonal contraception, aldosterone receptor-antagonists, chemotherapy, 
antipsychotics, antidepressants, antiepileptics, antiallergic drugs (centrally acting), life style drug 
(cocaine). 
Further, stress, excessive exercise, and low body weight can interfere with the menstrual bleeding 
pattern. 
Further, when hormonal contraception is used concomitantly, it’s use will have replaced the natural 
menstrual bleeding pattern by a withdrawal bleeding. Further, the use of an iron IUD will also will have 
changed the normal menstruation pattern. Therefore, the background use of contraception needs to be 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 5/87 
 
 
 
 
 
taken into account. 
Clinical Study Data extracted from Comirnaty registration dossier 
In the pivotal randomized clinical trial for Comirnaty the number of observed menstrual cycle 
abnormalities adverse events was balanced between placebo and active arms.  
The clinical database for the pivotal efficacy study C4591001 was searched for all BNT162b2 adverse 
event reports with Preferred Terms classified within the High-Level Group Term (HLGT) of Menstrual 
cycle and uterine bleeding disorders (MedDRA version 24.0). The dataset used included data collected 
during the blinded follow-up period for all Phase 2/3 participants ≥16 years of age who received at 
least 1 dose of study intervention (Safety Population). Results reported include only data reported 
before the blind break for each participant. Therefore, because the exposure time (from Dose 1 to the 
end of blinded follow-up) varies by participant, the AE results are reported as incidence rate (IR) per 
100 person-years (PY) of blinded follow-up. The overall dataset had a cutoff date of 13 March 2021. 
During the placebo-controlled follow-up, adverse events coding to the HLGT Menstrual cycle and 
uterine bleeding disorders were reported for 12 participants in the BNT162b2 group and for 13 
participants in the placebo group, corresponding to IRs of 0.14 per 100 PY and 0.16 per 100 PY, 
respectively (Table 1). These results show very low incidence and no imbalance in reporting incidence 
between the BNT162b2 and placebo groups. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 6/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Initial evidence 
2.1.  Signal validation  
Highlights 
•  Seriousness: Some reports are categorised as serious due to the long duration or due to 
hospitalisation. The blood loss has in some cases led to syncope, treatment with iron and blood 
transfusion(s), which has also been reported in children. 
• 
Evidence: A cohort study conducted by the Norwegian Institute of Public Health concludes that 
there is an increase in the incidence of menstrual changes among young women (aged 18 – 
30) after vaccination against coronavirus, according to initial findings from population studies 
(N = 6000). 
• 
Positive rechallenge cases. 
•  NoMA has fully processed 787 cases belonging to the PT ‘heavy menstrual bleeding’ as of 3 JAN 
22. Globally there are 24, 832 ICSRs for PT 'heavy menstrual bleeding' per 14 JAN 22 in 
Vigibase. 
•  ROR: The IC025 for PT 'Heavy menstrual bleeding' is 2,8- i.e. a disproportionality. 
•  Regulatory Context: The broad clinical issue of “menstrual disorders” was reviewed in the 9th 
MSSR for Comirnaty. 
A signal is being sent in parallell for mRNA-vaccine Spikevax. 
Comment PRAC Rapporteur: 
The signalling Member State stated that NoMA has fully processed 787 cases belonging to the PT 
‘heavy menstrual bleeding’ as of 3 Jan 2022. However, currently no details are available, which 
precludes full appraisal of prioritization of this signal. 
Further details regarding NCA’s assessment of the fully processed 787 Norwegian cases would be 
highly appreciated. The signalling Member State is requested to provide further details if available, in 
particular focusing on the serious and well-documented/medically confirmed cases, and provide for the 
all cases a clear breakdown of number of cases that were: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Medically confirmed. 
Supportive of causality (by WHO scaling). 
Unassessable. 
Unsupportive of causality due to presence or other causes, risk factors, underlying conditions, 
confounding medication. 
Details of co-reported AEs (if any) that may confound the menstrual changes. 
Exclude (or stratify) cases in which women used hormonal contraception (including hormonal 
IUDs), as these women have no natural menstrual period, but hormonally induced withdrawal 
bleedings. 
Exclude (or stratify) patients with an iron IUD as in these women the natural menstrual pattern 
is influenced by the presence of iron. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 7/87 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stratify patients that received heterologous primary or booster schemes [as this is particularly 
relevant within the NO context]. 
Depending on the results further regulatory action can be considered, as appropriate. 
Note that a similar review of nationally reported cases is ongoing in the Netherlands. 
Signal description 
Spontaneous reports: 
As the majority of the ICSRs on the issue of menstrual disturbances are reported and/or classified as 
non- serious, there is a huge backlog of uncoded/unhandled cases in Norway and most likely in other 
European countries. 
However, per 12 JAN 2022, for both mRNA-vaccines NoMA has fully processed over 3400 ICSRs 
belonging to the SOC “Reproductive system and breast disorders” whereof 2800 cases belonging to the 
HLGT “Menstrual cycle and uterine bleeding disorders” which have been submitted to EudraVigilance. 
NoMA has fully processed 787 cases belonging to the PT ‘heavy menstrual bleeding’ as of 3 JAN 22, but 
our back log is significant. 
It is interesting to note that LAREB (the Netherlands pharmacovigilance centre) who currently has no 
back log has registered 3533 ICSRs coded with the PT heavy menstrual bleeding related to Comirnaty 
in their report dated 22.12.21 [3]. 
Comment PRAC Rapporteur: 
Further details regarding NCA’s assessment of the fully processed 787 Norwegian cases would be 
highly appreciated (See previous comment). 
Note that the PRAC Rapporteur concluded that further evaluation is warranted, but at the moment the 
available evidence regarding a causal relation between COVID-19 vaccination and heavy menstrual 
bleeding, amenorrhoea, and post menopausal bleeding is possible, but inconclusive. 
Positive rechallence cases: 
NoMA has registered approximately 100 cases of women experiencing changes in menstrual cycle or 
bleeding pattern after both the first and second dose of an mRNA-vaccine (including mix-and-match 
vaccine schedule). These are indicative of a link between reactions related to menstrual cycle and 
mRNA vaccines. A list of cases could be provided to the PRAC-Rapporteurs on request. 
Below are two examples: 
Example 1: This is a patient report from an adult female. She was vaccinated with her second dose of 
Comirnaty. The patient states: “Constant bleed after dose 1, lasting several months, significant 
amounts. Increased menstrual pain and more bleedings reoccured after dose 2.” 
Example 2: This is a health care professional report from a GP. The report concerns an adult female 
who according to the GP had menstrual disturbances after the first dose of Comirnaty. The condition 
worsened after the second and third dose. Her bleeding periods are prolonged, and the interval has 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 8/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
been shortened. She now bleeds for up to 3 weeks; her bleedings are more severe, and she has more 
pain than she used to. Her menstrual cycle is usually regular. 
Comment PRAC Rapporteur: 
The selection criteria for presenting these two examples is not entirely clear. Although causality is 
possible based on the reported positive rechallenge, essential information is missing, precluding in-
depth assessment. For instance, in both cases information regarding time-to-onset, medical history, 
underlying conditions, confounding factors, co-medication (e.g. hormonal contraceptives), SARS-CoV-2 
status should be carefully considered. 
It is understood that the approximately 100 cases of positive rechallenge were reported for all 
menstrual cycle or bleeding pattern changes, hence not specifically for the PT heavy menstrual 
bleeding exclusively. 
A clear breakdown of number of cases should be provided of: 
• 
• 
Reports of positive rechallenges of PT heavy menstrual bleeding. 
Reports of positive rechallenges of other specific menstrual changes PTs andif applicable, details 
of other co-reported AEs. 
• 
Reports of negative rechallenges, i.e. post-dose 1 only which are considered unsupportive for 
causality. 
• 
Reports for which rechallenge information was non-informative, i.e. AEs post-1st dose had not 
resolved at the time of the administration of the 2nd dose. 
• 
Reports which were insufficiently documented / unclassifiable. 
Population cohort studies: 
There is an increase in the incidence of menstrual changes among young women after vaccination 
against coronavirus, according to initial findings from population studies by the Norwegian Institute of 
Public Health (N = 6000, age 18- 30 years). 
Even though the study does not address heavy menstrual bleeding specifically, it provides evidence of 
a causal association. This evidence was not available at time of review in the MSSR. (4) 
Comment PRAC Rapporteur: 
Although these first findings in this Norwegian study (not peer-reviewed yet), warrant further 
evaluation, NO’s conclusion that the cited Norwegian study “provides evidence of a causal association 
between the COVID-19 vaccines and women’s menstrual cycle” is currently not endorsed. 
Within the EU and global context reports of menstrual disorders following COVID-19 vaccination have 
already been identified for all COVID-19 vaccines and are currently being closely monitored through 
routine pharmacovigilance (i.e. routine signal/trend analysis, monthly summary safety reports and 
periodic safety update reports). 
At this moment the PRAC considers that based on the currently available evidence, it cannot be 
concluded that COVID vaccination causes menstrual disorders. 
The current evidence includes clinical trial data, the spontaneous reports in Eudravigilance (which 
includes the NL cases) and published scientific literature including the recently published initial findings 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 9/87 
 
 
 
 
 
from population studies by the Norwegian Institute of Public Health, which reported an increase in the 
incidence of menstrual changes among young women after vaccination against coronavirus: 
Menstrual changes following COVID-19 vaccination - NIPH (fhi.no) 
Increased incidence of menstrual changes among young women after coronavirus vaccination - NIPH 
(fhi.no) 
The main purpose of the Norwegian study was to clarify whether bleeding disorders occur more 
frequently in vaccinated women than in non-vaccinated women. 
The study based on 4000 women shows that there is an increased incidence of menstrual disorders in 
young women age 18- 30 after they were vaccinated against Covid (mRNA vaccines). 
The MS1 Medicines Agency by mid November 2021 assessed all the adverse event reports of menstrual 
disorder and COVID-19-vaccinations that the agency had received by then (around 3900 reports from 
women in total). Based on the analysis of these reports, the MS1 Medicines Agency did not find 
evidence to support the theory that COVID-19-vaccines trigger menstrual disorders. 
The authors of the Norwegian study currently do not draw any conclusion regarding a causal role of the 
vaccination. As has been indicated by the authors, the results of this study should be interpreted 
cautiously, due to the following: 
Study design, i.e. self-reported outcomes obtained through a survey/questionnaire, which may 
• 
pose a risk on subjectivity and reporting and recall bias. 
• 
High incidence of menstrual cycle changes at baseline. 
Confounding by pre-vaccination anxiety-/lockdown stress, undetected (corona)infections 
• 
cannot be fully excluded at this moment. 
There was a generally high incidence of the various menstrual disturbances among menstruating 
women aged 18–30 years: As many as 37.8% reported at least one change during their last period 
before vaccination. After the first dose, 39.4% reported at least one change, and after the second 
dose, 40.9%. 
Specified by symptoms, during the last cycle before the 1st vaccination dose 7-18% of the participants 
already reported a menstrual change (relative to their normal cycle). 
After vaccination this percentage appears increased for some specific symptoms, i.e. heavier than 
normal 7.6 vs 13.6%, but overall there does not appear to be a great difference in ranges: 7.6-18.3% 
vs. 10.9-15.8%, before and after the 1st dose, respectively. 
In summary, from these study results no causal relation between COVID-19 vaccination and menstrual 
cycle changes can be established. 
The authors’ word of caution is agreed that: Menstrual changes are very common among women of 
childbearing age and can have various causes. Menstruation can be affected by many factors, such as 
infections, medicines, hormones / contraception, fibroids, endometriosis or other diseases of the uterus 
and cervix. When many women are vaccinated, it is therefore expected that some will experience 
menstrual changes and unexpected bleeding around the time of vaccination by coincidence. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 10/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Examples of cases of heavy menstrual bleedings 
Case 1: This case is a health care professional report of a girl experiencing a life- threatening vaginal 
bleed. The girl was vaccinated with Comirnaty. She had her first period 12 days later, but the bleeding 
did not subside, and she was admitted to hospital for immediate help on 14 days after having her first 
period with severe bleeding anemia. The patient had hemoglobin of 4.0 g/dL and received four blood 
transfusions and three bags of fresh frozen plasma. She has been examined for coagulation disorders 
with completely normal findings. This includes INR, vWf, APTT, fibrinogen, coagulation factor IX, VII, 
VIII. The patient is previously healthy. Does not use medication. Ultrasound showed blood in the 
uterus and thick and even mucous membrane. CT abdomen showed the same findings. The patient’s 
outcome was recovered/resolved. 
We have one additional report of a girl requiring blood transfusion due to a prolonged menstrual 
bleeding, reported by a parent. 
Case 2: This is a serious health care professional report with a positive rechallenge of bleedings and 
hospitalisations. An adult woman experienced heavy vaginal bleeding 2 days after her first dose of 
Comirnaty. The bleeding was much heavier than a normal menstruation and would not stop. She was 
admitted to hospital 8 days later for uterine scraping and blood transfusion. 17 days after the first dose 
of Comirnaty the patient informs that the situation had stabilized, but the bleeding had still not 
stopped completely. 
42 days after her first dose of Comirnaty she received the second dose of Comirnaty, and she was 
again admitted to hospital with heavy vaginal bleeding that resulted in uterine scraping and blood 
transfusion. The time for admission the second time is reported as the month when she received the 
second dose of Comirnaty, so exact date is not known, but is within eight days from vaccination. The 
bleeding stopped the last week of the next month following the 2nd dose vaccination month, and her 
menstrual cycle is seemingly back to normal. 
Case 3: This is a health care professional report from a physician, concerning an adult woman who 
was hospitalised due to severe bleedings. She was vaccinated with Comirnaty, third dose. She 
experienced a menstrual bleeding starting two days after the vaccination. She was unsure whether her 
period was due then. She uses a contraceptive implant since this summer. Has since then had an 
irregular menstruation. Initially once per month, then more frequently than once per month. The 
amount of blood was not more than normal. She then travelled abroad 9 days after receiving the third 
dose of Comirnaty and was admitted to hospital due to persistent bleeding. Ultrasound reportedly 
found thin mucous membrane in the uterus. She started treatment with progestogen 1 mg for eight 
days, without effect. She has previously only experienced irregular bleedings relating to change of 
contraceptives. She has frequent heavy menstrual bleeding during the day and night. Stomach pain all 
the time. Uses paracetamol 1 gram several times a day, without effect. 
Weight reduction of 2 kg during the last four weeks. Feels healthy. She performs sustained physical 
exercise every day. As concomitant medication, the patient is treated with budesonide since 10 days 
after receiving third dose of Comirnaty for Crohns disease. Uses Acetylic salicylic acid 75 mg daily. 
Medical history includes an aortic valve replacement. Her menstrual bleeding was not recovered at 
time of report, 32 days after the third dose of Comirnaty and she has been bleeding for 4 weeks. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 11/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case 4: This is a health care professional report concerning an adult woman who was hospitalised due 
to a severe bleeding. She has had two pregnancies previously (gravida 2, para 2). Her menstrual cycle 
is usually regular, lasting 3-4 days. Last menstruation in the month of first vaccination with Comirnaty. 
She has not had similar heavy menstrual bleedings before. She was vaccinated with Comirnaty. Two 
days after she had a severe vaginal bleeding, fresh blood with clots. No pain. Somewhat heavy 
breathing, but no dizziness. Hb 6.7 at admission, requiring blood transfusion of 2 units of salt-adenin-
glucose (SAG). Hb 8.9 13 days after vaccination with Comirnaty. Not suspected polyp or myoma. She 
was treated with tranexamic acid, nortetisterone and given iron supplementation. Primary suspected 
cause is anovulatory bleeding. Histology results from a biopsy taken from the uterus shows: 
Endometrium in a prolonged proliferation phase with focal eosinophil and papillary metaplasia, not 
atypical (premenopausal endometrium). 
Case 5: This serious report concerns a 20–30-year-old female with heavy menstrual bleeding starting 
6 hours after second vaccination with the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. The menstrual bleeding had to be 
stopped with medication (blood thickers). Patient has an IUD for 9 years now and never had a 
menstruation in all those years. Patient has factor VII deficiency and bleeding is very dangerous for her 
because of her condition. Now after both the first and the second vaccination she had a very severe 
menstrual bleeding, despite the IUD. No further diagnostics are performed. No other concomitant 
medication. Patient did not have a covid-19 infection prior to vaccination. BMI is high. 
Case 6: This is a patient report concerning an adult female patient who had a hysterectomy due to 
prolonged/severe bleedings. She was vaccinated with Comirnaty, first dose. The patient reports of 
bleedings, starting second day after first dose and persisting, except for a few days off. The bleedings 
were severe and led to hospitalisations. She has been treated with “blood stopping agents”, with and 
without effect. Last hospitalisation is approx. 3 months after first dose of Comirnaty. A hysterectomy 
was performed on approx. 3,5 months after first dose of Comirnaty. 
Comment PRAC Rapporteur: 
Case 1: Causality is possible based on the TTO of 13 days, and exclusion of underlying coagulation 
disorders. However information regarding other possible confounders (e.g. (asymptomatic) SARS-COV-
2 infection) is lacking. 
The additional case mentioned under Case 1 is insufficiently documented to allow causality 
assessment. 
Moreover, it is not clear whether these 2 girls are already having previous regular menstrual bleeding. 
When the menstrual bleeding has only recently started, it is generally not regular yet. 
Case 2: Causality is possible based on TTO and positive rechallenge, however it is not documented 
whether alternative etiologies have been systematically excluded. 
Case 3: Heavy bleeding only occurred following the 3rd dose and not following the 1st and 2nd dose, 
which is not supportive for a causal relation. The use of hormonal contraception (including hormonal 
IUDs) precludes causality assessment as these women have no natural menstrual period, but 
hormonally induced withdrawal bleedings. 
Case 4: Causality cannot be ruled out due to TTO of two days. However considering the patient’s age 
and histology results - Endometrium in a prolonged proliferation phase with focal eosinophil and 
papillary metaplasia, not atypical (premenopausal endometrium) - may suggest early menopausal 
transition as a plausible alternative cause. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 12/87 
 
 
 
 
Case 5: This case is not assessable as the patient has a clotting disorder (factor VII deficiency) and 
very likely uses a hormonal IUD. An iron IUD is not suitable in a patient with a clotting disorder, as iron 
IUDs increase the amount of menstrual bleeding.  
Case 6: Causality cannot be ruled out based on short TTO of 1 day, but details regarding diagnostic 
work-up, comedication, medical history, exclusion of alternative etiologies is lacking. 
In summary, based on assessment of the 6 selected reasonably well-documented cases causality 
between vaccination and heavy menstrual bleeding cannot be ruled out in 3 out 6 cases (cases 1, 2, 
6). 
Cases 3 and 5 are not assessable due to hormonal contraceptive use and an underlying clotting 
disorder. In case 4, a likely alternative cause has been diagnosed.  
In none of the cases information regarding preceding SARS-CoV-2 infection (including asymptomatic) 
has been provided. 
It seems that this selection of patients is not random and therefore prone to bias. It needs to clarified 
on which grounds and for which purpose these cases were extracted from the dataset and discussed 
separately. In order to allow in-depth assessment of a causal relation between COVID-19 vaccination 
and heavy menstrual bleeding further detail of all cases is required (see previous comments). 
Publications: 
In a retrospective cross-sectional study by Li et al. [5] laboratory and clinical data from hospitalised 
women of child-bearing age diagnosed with COVID-19 were analysed. Menstrual data from 177 women 
were analysed. The authors conclude that the average sex hormone concentrations and ovarian 
reserve did not change significantly. Nearly one-fifth of patients exhibited a menstrual volume 
decrease or cycle prolongation. The authors propose that the menstruation changes of these patients 
might be the consequence of transient sex hormone changes caused by suppression of ovarian 
function that quickly resume after recovery. It should be noted that the patients were followed up, and 
84% returned to a normal menstrual volume and 99% returned to their normal cycle within 1-2 
months of discharge, suggesting that changes in menstruation caused by covid-19 were most likely 
temporary changes and resolved in a short period. One 40-49-year-old patient indicated in the follow-
up that she had stopped menstruating for 4 months after COVID-19 onset and had excluded pregnancy 
as a cause, but considering that she was within her perimenopausal period, they believed that the 
observation time of menstruation should be extended in her case. 
Comment PRAC Rapporteur: 
The finding that changes in menstruation can be caused by COVID-19 infection, underscores the 
importance to carefully consider and exclude preceding SARS-CoV-2 infection (including asymptomatic) 
as confounder or effect modifier. 
Recommendation: 
The MAH should review data from clinical trials and post marketing data, including: 
•  Provide an overview of the age of the female study participants in the reactogenicity subgroup of 
the clinical study, including median age, and provide the number of women of childbearing potential 
the study included. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 13/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Perform a follow up with all female participants of childbearing age in the clinical trial to investigate 
for any reaction related to their menstruation and ovulation/fertility, including pregnancy and 
pregnancy outcome. 
•  Analyse a number of post marketing reports to investigate when the time of vaccination took place 
relating to the time of ovulation, the luteal phase and so on, in those ICSRs where the information 
of the menstrual cycle is known, to see if there might be a pattern. 
References 
1.  https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/news/newsroom/news-releases/covid-19-news-study-to-
investigate- impacts-of-covid-vaccines-on-menstruation 
2.  https://admin.meddra.org/sites/default/files/guidance/file/000636_whatsnew_24_1.pdf 
3.  https://www.lareb.nl/media/uoneih5z/signals_2021_menstrual_disorders-and- 
postmenopausal_bleeding-and-covid-19-vaccines.pd 
4.  https://www.fhi.no/en/news/2021/menstrual-changes-following-covid-19-vaccination/ 
5.  Li K, Chen G, Hou H, Liao Q, Chen J, Bai H, Lee S, Wang C, Li H, Cheng L, Ai J. Analysis of sex 
hormones and menstruation in COVID-19 women of child-bearing age. Reprod Biomed Online. 
2021 Jan;42(1):260-267. doi: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2020.09.020. Epub 2020 Sep 29. PMID: 
33288478; PMCID: PMC7522626. 
2.2.  Signal confirmation  
Overall, a total of 16,422 ICSRs reporting heavy menstrual bleeding following tozinameran are 
reported in EudraVigilance (eRMR cut-off 23 Jan 2022). 
It is acknowledged that the absolute number of spontaneously reported cases is high, but this not 
unexpected taking into account the high background incidence of menstrual disorders irrespective of 
vaccination, and the pandemic context with an unprecedented high number of administered doses of 
vaccines, and the large (social) media attention on this topic. 
Spontaneous reporting rates should be interpreted cautiously, as both underreporting and stimulated 
reporting cannot be excluded. 
Based on NO and MS11 national reviews some supportive cases have been identified in which a causal 
relation cannot be ruled out based on compatible TTO, positive rechallenge information and absence of 
alternative causes. However, with such large numbers of vaccinees, chance findings cannot be 
excluded either. 
In the vast majority of the MS11 cases essential information is lacking and further in-depth evaluation 
of the signal by the MAH is warranted. 
Further details regarding NCA’s assessment of the fully processed 787 Norwegian cases would be 
highly appreciated. The signalling Member State is requested to provide further details if available, in 
particular focusing on the serious and well-documented/medically confirmed cases, and provide for the 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 14/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all cases a clear breakdown of number of cases that were: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Medically confirmed. 
Supportive of causality (by WHO scaling). 
Unassessable. 
Unsupportive of causality due to presence or other causes, risk factors, underlying conditions, 
confounding medication. 
Details of co-reported AEs (if any) that may confound the menstrual changes. 
Exclude (or stratify) cases in which women used hormonal contraception (including hormonal 
IUDs), as these women have no natural menstrual period, but hormonally induced withdrawal 
bleedings. 
Exclude (or stratify) patients with an iron IUD as in these women the natural menstrual pattern 
is influenced by the presence of iron. 
Stratify patients that received heterologous primary or booster schemes as this is particularly 
relevant within the NO context. 
Depending on the results further regulatory action can be considered, as appropriate. 
Note that similar review of nationally reported cases is ongoing in the Netherlands. 
Nevertheless, the signal is considered weak based on the following: 
• 
In the pivotal randomized clinical trial for Comirnaty the number of observed menstrual cycle 
abnormalities adverse events was balanced between placebo and active arms. The PT Heavy 
menstrual bleeding was not reported specifically in the study. 
•  Within the context of an exposure of 545 million administered doses in the EU/EEA countries 
(status 02 Jan 2022), the number of supportive cases is considered limited. 
•  Although heavy menstrual bleeding is disproportionally reported in EV, it is very difficult to assess 
whether the observed number of cases exceeds the expected number of cases, due to the high 
incidence of the AE at baseline.  
•  Confounding by pre-vaccination anxiety-/lockdown stress, undetected (corona)infections cannot be 
fully excluded at this moment. 
•  Although there may be a potentially plausible mechanism, a coincidental finding cannot be 
excluded either at this moment. 
Therefore, a default 60/60 time table is considered proportional, also considering the type/volume of 
data to be assessed. 
2.3.  Proposed recommendation 
Within 60 days following receipt of this report the MAH is requested to submit a cumulative review of 
all cases concerning Comirnaty associated heavy menstrual bleeding from all sources, including any 
relevant articles from literature and to discuss probable mechanism(s) of action for the occurrence of 
vaccine-associated heavy menstrual bleeding following administration of Comirnaty. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 15/87 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH should review data from clinical trials, literature and post marketing data, including: 
• 
• 
• 
Provide an overview of the age of the female study participants in the reactogenicity subgroup of 
the clinical study, including median age, and provide the number of women of childbearing 
potential the study included. 
Perform a follow up with all female participants of childbearing age in the clinical trial to 
investigate for any reaction related to their menstruation and ovulation/fertility, including 
pregnancy and pregnancy outcome. 
Analyse a number of post marketing reports to investigate when the time of vaccination took 
place relating to the time of ovulation, the luteal phase and so on, in those ICSRs where the 
information of the menstrual cycle is known, to see if there might be a pattern. 
Focus of the review should be on the serious and well-documented/medically confirmed cases, and the 
MAH should provide for the all cases a clear breakdown of number of cases that were: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Medically confirmed. 
Supportive of causality (by WHO scaling). 
Unassessable. 
Unsupportive of causality due to presence or other causes, risk factors, underlying conditions, 
confounding medication. 
Details of co-reported AEs (if any) that may confound the menstrual changes. 
Exclude (or stratify) cases in which women used hormonal contraception (including hormonal 
IUDs), as these women have no natural menstrual period, but hormonally induced withdrawal 
bleedings. 
Exclude (or stratify) patients with an iron IUD as in these women the natural menstrual pattern 
is influenced by the presence of iron. 
Stratify patients that received heterologous primary or booster schemes [as this is particularly 
relevant within the NO context]. 
The MAH should discuss the need for any potential amendment to the product information and/or the 
risk management plan and make accordingly a proposal for changes to the relevant sections within this 
discussion. 
The procedure should follow a 60/60 day Time Table considering the type/volume of data to be 
assessed. 
Of note, the same signal has been confirmed for Spikevax and it is proposed to align the final PRAC 
recommendation during the PRAC plenary meeting of 7-10 February 2022. 
2.4.  Adopted PRAC recommendation 
Having considered the available evidence from national reviews (post marketing cases and published 
studies), the PRAC has agreed that the MAH for COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine Comirnaty (BioNTech 
Manufacturing GmbH) should perform a cumulative review of all cases of heavy menstrual bleeding 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 16/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from all sources, including, but not limited to, available data from clinical trials, literature and post 
marketing exposure. The MAH should provide by 7 April 2022 answers to the below List of Questions 
concerning clinical trials, literature, case overview and review, possible mechanism of action and 
exposure in females of childbearing potential. 
1. Clinical trials 
The  MAH  should  provide  an  overview  and  clinical  evaluation  of  cases  of  heavy  menstrual  bleeding, 
reported during pivotal clinical trials. The clinical evaluation should include age, childbearing potential, 
reported  risk  factors  for  heavy  menstrual  bleeding,  concomitant  medication,  patient  medical  history 
including previous menstruation pattern, duration of the event and outcome. This information should 
be  considered  in  the  context  of  the  total  number  of  females,  including  of  childbearing  potential 
participating in the study. 
The MAH should clarify how adverse events related to heavy menstrual bleeding were reported, i.e. if 
these were solicited adverse events or spontaneously reported by the participants.  
2. Published literature 
The  MAH  should  perform  a  literature  review  on  the  possible  association  between  heavy  menstrual 
bleeding  and  COVID-19  mRNA  vaccine  Comirnaty.  The  literature  review  should  include,  but  not  be 
limited to a discussion on the studies by: Lill Trogstad et al.1, Nguyen et al.2 and Edelman et al.3. 
3. Case overview 
The MAH should list the number of reported cases of the preferred term heavy menstrual bleeding 
stratified by: 
•  worldwide and region;   
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
country in the EU/EEA; 
dose number in series; 
seriousness; 
reporter (medically/non-medically confirmed); 
positive rechallenge. 
4. Case review 
The case review should prioritise serious and/or medically confirmed cases, where information on risk 
factors and medical history is included. Special focus should be given to cases in which the previous 
menstruation pattern is known, and to cases of heavy menstrual bleeding with positive rechallenge.   
1 Trogstad, Lill, Increased Occurrence of Menstrual Disturbances in 18- to 30-Year-Old Women after COVID-19 
Vaccination (January 1, 2022). Available at 
SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3998180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3998180 
2 Nguyen BT, Pang RD, Nelson AL, Pearson JT, Benhar Noccioli E, Reissner HR, et al. (2021) Detecting variations in 
ovulation and menstruation during the COVID-19 pandemic, using real-world mobile app data. PLoS ONE 16(10): 
e0258314. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0258314  
3 Edelman A, Boniface ER, Benhar E, Han L, Matteson KA, Favaro C, Pearson JT, Darney BG. Association Between 
Menstrual Cycle Length and Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Vaccination: A U.S. Cohort. Obstet Gynecol. 
2022 Jan 5. doi: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000004695. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 34991109 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 17/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The case review should include a WHO-UMC Causality assessment, and a justification of causality 
category should be given for each case. The MAH should provide for all cases a clear breakdown of the 
number of cases that were either supportive of causality/ unsupportive due to presence of other 
causes, risk factors, underlying conditions, confounding medication/ unassessable. 
The following information should be stratified: 
•  Details of medically relevant co-reported adverse events (if any);  
•  Cases in which women used hormonal contraception (including hormonal intrauterine devices); 
•  Cases with other types of intrauterine devices; 
•  Cases that received heterologous primary or booster schemes. 
If available, the MAH should provide information on when vaccination took place relating to the time of 
ovulation, the luteal phase and so on, in those ICSRs where the information on the menstrual cycle is 
known and discuss whether a pattern might exist.  
When excluding cases from the review, a justification for doing so should be provided by the MAH.  
Based on a review of case reports with inconclusive causality due to confounding factors and/or lacking 
information, the MAH should provide a nuanced discussion of whether Comirnaty may have aggravated 
the condition in cases where causality cannot be firmly established.  
5. Mechanism of action 
The MAH should discuss the pathophysiology of heavy menstrual bleeding and whether any biological 
plausibility/mechanism of action exists.  
6. Exposure in females of childbearing potential 
The  MAH  should  provide  an  estimation of  the number  of  women  of  childbearing  age  that have  been 
vaccinated with Comirnaty. 
The MAH should discuss the need for any potential amendment to the product information and/or the 
risk management plan and make accordingly a proposal for changes to the relevant sections within this 
discussion. 
The PRAC will assess the cumulative review within a 60 days’ timetable. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 18/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Additional evidence  
3.1.  Assessment of additional data  
3.1.1.  Supplementary information from Trogstad et.al. 
During the assessment of the signal, the Norwegian Medicines Agency received unpublished data from 
Trogstad et.al. with supplementary analysis from the study “Trogstad, L. Increased Occurrence of 
Menstrual Disturbances in 18- to 30-Year-Old Women after COVID-19 Vaccination” which has been 
discussed in the assessment of the MAH’s response. 
The respective analysis is available as a preprint at: 
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4324853 
Reported menstrual changes from heterologous primary vaccination 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The assessment of these supplementary analysis is included in the PRAC Rapporteurs assessment of 
the MAHs discussion of the study by Trogstad et.al. later in this assessment report 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 19/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1.2.  Supplementary information from Caspersen et.al  
PRAC Rapp Comment: This study was not published when it was made available to the PRAC Rapporteur 
on May 6, 2022.  This study is now published: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36517325/ 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment   
The study by Caspersen et al. from the Norwegian Institute of Public Health studied the occurrence of 
menstrual disturbances in adolescents (12-15 years) following one dose of Comirnaty. The authors 
have submitted a manuscript that is not yet peer-reviewed or published as a pre-print. Thus, this 
information must be read in that context and treated as confidential.  
Participants were part of an ongoing cohort (MoBA) established many years previously. There were 
19,310 respondents (response rate 64%). Boys (9,947), non-menstruating girls (1,646), those 
registered with >1 dose of COVID-19 vaccine (144) and those who had received vaccine before August 
1, 2021 (8) were excluded, and the remaining 1,466 subjects were included in the analysis.  
Information regarding vaccination status and COVID-19 disease was double-checked with records in 
national registries. The study applied a self-controlled case series design (SCCS), which adjusts for 
most confounding factors. Further, the questionnaire included several topics not related to 
menstruation to be answered prior to the menstrual disorders-questions to exclude awareness of these 
disturbances as a primary incentive to respond.  
The study showed that the occurrence of heavier bleeding after vaccination was significantly higher 
than that of the most recent menstruation prior to vaccination (relative risk: 1.61, 95% CI: 1.43 to 
1.81). While menstruation disorders were overall common also in the unvaccinated group (22.3%), an 
increase was noted in the vaccinated group in the first cycle after vaccine (from 22.6% to 25.1%). 
Reports of heavy menstrual bleeding showed the largest relative increase in this group (4.7% to 
7.3%), other events did not show any change (longer interval, spot bleeding, period pains).  
The study has some limitations, one being that questionnaires were answered by the mothers on 
behalf of their daughters. Questions regarding menstruation both before and after vaccination were 
answered in the same questionnaire at one time-point. Median time between vaccination and 
completion of the survey was 27 days, which had the advantage of reducing recall bias, but led to 
exclusion of subjects where no information regarding menstrual disorders could be obtained. Not all 
participants in the cohort opted to answer the questionnaire and some selection bias cannot be ruled 
out. Not all items related to menstrual disorders showed a change after vaccination, indicating that 
participants were not overall biased against menstrual cycle changes.   
In conclusion, despite some limitations, the results of the study point to an increased risk of heavy 
menstrual bleeding after vaccination with one dose of Comirnaty in girls aged 12–15 years. This is 
consistent with findings in the older age group 18–30. This consistency supports an association 
between heavy menstrual bleeding and COVID-19 mRNA vaccination. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 20/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1.3.  Assessment of response  
Question 1 – Clinical Trials 
MAH’s response: 
There were 12 cases of heavy menstrual bleeding (unsolicited reports). 
These 12 were from the trials C4591001 and C4591031. 
•  3 of the 12 events occurred after placebo 
•  9 of the 12 events occurred after receipt of active study vaccine. 
In the placebo-controlled portion of the C4591001 study, prior to treatment assignment unblinding, 
there were 6 events of heavy menstrual bleeding; 4 of these events were after receipt of active 
vaccination and 2 events after receipt of placebo. 
The MAH have provided an overview of the 4 cases that received active vaccine: all resolved with no 
sequelae, mean age was 35.5 and mean time to onset was 39.8 days (range 3 – 114 days). Mean 
duration was 78.3 days (range 6 – 151 days). 
Across both studies, in the placebo-controlled portions, in the 3 events after placebo-vaccine; mean 
duration was 53.3 days, range 5 – 142 days. 
The MAH describes five cases with pre-existing medical history which may be relevant. 2 had pre-
existing history of menorrhagia (1 following placebo, 1 following active vaccine), 2 participants with 
history of previous gynaecological surgery (both following active vaccine) and 1 with history of 
thrombophilia (following placebo). It is also mentioned one participant reported having a Mirena 
(hormonal) intrauterine device. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
As a general note, the overview/description provided by the MAH is unstructured, and it is difficult to 
make the figures from the detailed description of the events add up to the total number of 12 events 
as stated initially by the MAH. 
The MAH disregards/does not discuss the numerical imbalance of the clinical trials – 9 (vaccine) vs 3 
(placebo), and the imbalance 4 (vaccine) vs 2 (placebo) in the placebo-controlled portion of the 
C4591001 study. 
During confirmation of the signal, data from the pivotal randomized clinical trial for Comirnaty, 
C4591001 was discussed, showing that the number of observed menstrual cycle abnormalities adverse 
events were balanced between placebo and active arms: 
“During the placebo-controlled follow-up, adverse events coding to the HLGT Menstrual cycle and 
uterine bleeding disorders were reported for 12 participants in the BNT162b2 group and for 13 
participants in the placebo group, corresponding to IRs of 0.14 per 100 PY and 0.16 per 100 PY, 
respectively (Table 1). These results show very low incidence and no imbalance in reporting incidence 
between the BNT162b2 and placebo groups.” 
These figures were on HLGT-level and not specific for the PT heavy menstrual bleeding. It is therefore 
important to acknowledge that when looking at a specific PT, the numbers are imbalanced. 
The MAH has not responded adequately to the request “This information should be considered in the 
context of the total number of females, including of childbearing potential participating in the study.” 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 21/87 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose behind this question was to investigate whether the proportion of females of childbearing 
potential in the trial is representable of the post marketing population, or whether the trial was overly 
represented by women not of childbearing potential. Such an important issue should have been 
correctly addressed.  
Range of bleeding time was from 6 – 151 days, which means that one participant bled for 151 days. 
The MAH has not provided details on this case. Such details were not specifically requested but would 
have been helpful for assessment. Also, there seem to be inconsistencies in the numbers provided by 
the MAH, because no cases in the line listings provided (Appendix 1 and 2) have a duration of 151 
days. 
Regarding the discussion of pre-existing medical history: In the trial of such a size (23 789 female 
participants), one can assume that risk factors have been evenly distributed in the study population, 
hence the discussion on pre-existing medical history is less relevant. On the contrary, it could be 
discussed in terms of contributing risk factors. 
Question 2 - Published literature 
The MAH should perform a literature review on the possible association between heavy menstrual 
bleeding and COVID-19 mRNA vaccine Comirnaty. The literature review should include, but not be 
limited to a discussion on the studies by: Lill Trogstad et al., Nguyen et al. and Edelman et al. 
MAH’s response: 
The MAH included 7 publications on the topic: Trogstad et al., Nguyen et al., Edelman et al., report 
from LAREB, weekly summary from the MHRA Yellow Card Reporting, Lee et al., Male et al., and 
Alvergne et al. 
The publications included by the MAH were the following: 
Lee K, Junkins E, Luo C, et al. Investigating trends in those who experience menstrual 
bleeding changes after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. Available February 11, 2022.  
MAH’s response: 
The MAH does not provide a description/overview of the study (such as its design and number of 
participants). The MAH refers to this publication and states that in this sample, of currently and 
formerly menstruating people in the US, 42% of people with regular menstrual cycles bled more 
heavily than usual while 44% reported no change after being vaccinated. Among respondents who 
typically do not menstruate, 71% of people on long-acting reversible contraceptives, 39% of people on 
gender-affirming hormones and 66% of post-menopausal people reported breakthrough bleeding. 
Increased/breakthrough bleeding was significantly associated with older age, systemic vaccine side 
effects (fever, fatigue), history of pregnancy or birth, and Hispanic/Latinx ethnicity. The MAH states 
that interestingly, the authors also examined the relationship of specific reproductive conditions often 
associated with altered menstrual bleeding by comparing respondents with diagnosed conditions to 
respondents with no reported reproductive conditions. A higher proportion of respondents with 
endometriosis (51.1%), menorrhagia (44.3%), fibroids (49.1%), PCOS (46.2%), and adenomyosis 
(54.9%) reported experiencing a heavier menstrual flow post-vaccine than the respondents without 
diagnosed reproductive conditions (40.9%). 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 22/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH states that this study has several limitations, with the main ones being participation bias and 
the lack of a comparator group. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
This is a retrospective survey-based study with 39,129 respondents, between 18 and 80 years of age. 
All participants were fully vaccinated and had not contracted COVID-19 (diagnosed or suspected). 
21,620 were vaccinated with Comirnaty.  
This is a large survey, but as is stated by the authors it cannot estimate prevalence or incidence based 
on the methodological approach, and the associations reported cannot establish causality. The authors 
state that their results highlight that many people noted changes in their menstrual bleeding, with 
56% of the regularly menstruating sample reporting some change in their menstrual bleeding after one 
or more of the vaccine doses.  
The MAH’s review focuses for the most part on the analysis of a subgroup (respondent with diagnosed 
conditions). As they account for a mere 13% (n = 5000) of the participants, the MAH’s approach is 
questioned.  
Most participants in the study (87%) reporting menstrual changes did not have these medical 
conditions. However, the Rapporteur agrees with the MAH that the higher reported incidences in these 
patients are interesting, but from another perspective. The findings might indicate that some of these 
conditions predispose the woman to an alteration of her menstrual cycle. This is important to 
remember, since ICSRs submitted on these individuals could be at risk of being dismissed as 
confounded. Please see comments and discussion related to the case review.  
The MAH states that the study has several limitations, with the main ones being participation bias and 
the lack of a comparator group which is agreed upon.  
However, the authors addressed their research questions according to the design of the study, seeking 
to overcome such limitations in order to increase validity of the findings:  
- 1) What is the range of menstrual bleeding changes reported by regularly menstruating respondents 
after being administered the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine?  
 -2) To what extent are non-menstruating respondents reporting breakthrough bleeding after being 
administered the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine?  
3) Are there trends among those with a changed bleeding pattern to help determine proximate 
mechanisms acting on the uterus?  
These questions are of a descriptive character. Further, each study participant is considered as its own 
control, as outcome is registered before/after vaccination. Regarding recruitment to the study, the 
authors sought to include a wide array of patients. It is acknowledged that experiencing menstrual 
disorders following vaccination may have served as an incentive. However, the authors have 
succeeded in enrolling women experiencing no changes. The MAH’s arguments regarding participation 
bias and lack of control group are acknowledged. However, the MAH’s dismissal of the conclusions of 
the study in its entirety is not endorsed, as we consider the results provide some information.  
Edelman – Edelman A, Boniface ER, Benhar E, et al. Association Between Menstrual Cycle 
Length and Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Vaccination: A U.S. Cohort [published 
online ahead of print, 2022 Jan 5]. Obstet Gynecol. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 23/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAH’s response:  
This study was specifically requested in the LoQ. However, the MAH’s description of the publication is 
one sentence in section 2.7 Summary and Conclusion: “A well-designed US study of self-reported 
menstrual cycle data by Alison Edelman et al. did not support a significant effect of vaccination on the 
number of days of menstrual bleeding.” 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
The review presented by the MAH is scarce, and the results are not discussed in detail, which was 
expected.  
The study analysed prospectively tracked menstrual cycle data using a smart phone application. The 
study included U.S. residents aged 18 -45 years, with normal cycle length (24 – 38 days) for three 
consecutive cycles over a corresponding time-period. The study included 3,959 individuals (vaccinated 
2,402 and unvaccinated 1,556), of which 55% received Comirnaty. The authors calculated the mean 
within-individual change in cycle and menses length (three pre-vaccine cycles vs first- and second-
dose cycles in the vaccinated cohort, and the first three cycles vs cycles four and five in the 
unvaccinated cohort). Overall, COVID-19 vaccine was associated with a significant increase in cycle 
length, that was less than 1-day for both vaccine-dose cycles compared with pre-vaccine cycles (first 
dose 0.71 day-increase, 98.75% CI 0.47-0.94; second dose 0.91, 98.75% CI 0.63-1.19); 
unvaccinated individuals saw no significant change compared with three baseline cycles (cycle four 
0.07, 98.75% CI -0.22 to 0.35; cycle five 0.12, 98.75% CI -0.15 to 0.39). In adjusted models, the 
difference in change in cycle length between the vaccinated and unvaccinated cohorts was less than 1 
day for both doses (difference in change: first dose 0.64 days, 98.75% CI 0.27-1.01; second dose 
0.79 days, 98.75% CI 0.40-1.18).  
The vaccinated cohort was slightly older (34% 30–34 years of age vs 24% among unvaccinated) and 
more likely to be nulliparous (79% vs 69%) and college educated (77% vs 60%) as compared with the 
unvaccinated group. 
This study is strengthened by the control group and is of a moderate size. An important limitation is 
that vaccinated and unvaccinated women potentially differs in various aspects indicated by the 
difference in age, education and parity. However, the findings may indicate an association between 
COVID-19 vaccines and slightly increased cycle length. The clinical implications of an increase this 
magnitude are less clear and may be considered as negligible. However, there is a sub-population that 
is more affected. The increase in cycle length for both the first and second vaccine cycles appears to be 
driven largely by the 358 individuals who received both vaccine doses within a single cycle (cycle four). 
This subgroup experienced a 2-day unadjusted mean cycle length increase (2.38 days, 98.75% CI 
1.52–3.24), and 10.6% had an increase in cycle length of 8 days or more compared with 4.3% in the 
unvaccinated cohort (P<0.001). This may imply that COVID-19 vaccination has a larger impact on 
menstrual regularity when both doses are administered within the same menstrual cycle. The authors 
highlight that the study did not provide answers to other questions about changes in menstrual cycles, 
such as menstrual symptoms, unscheduled bleeding, and changes in the quality and quantity of 
menstrual bleeding. The publication is therefore not directly relevant for this signal evaluation. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 24/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trogstad, L. et al.: Increased Occurrence of Menstrual Disturbances in 18- to 30-Year-Old 
Women after COVID-19 Vaccination. 01 January 2022.  
MAH’s response:  
A preprint of a study from the Norwegian Institute of Public Health asked a pre-existing cohort of 5,688 
Norwegian women between 18 – 30 years of age whether they had experienced specific menstrual 
changes in the cycles before and after each vaccine dose. Over 90% of the women were vaccinated 
with 2 doses of Comirnaty (43.5%) or Spikevax (48.1%). The high level of variation in normal cycles is 
underlined by the finding that 37.8% of participants reported at least one change from normal even in 
pre-vaccination cycles. Of the vaccinated women who experienced menstrual disturbances, the study 
identified heavier than normal bleeding as the change most associated with vaccination (first dose: RR 
1.9, 95% CI: 1.69 to 2.13; second dose: RR 1.84, 95% CI 1.66 to 2.03). 
Changes in reported bleeding patterns before and after the first and second vaccine dose are presented 
in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. The proportion who reported heavier periods than normal was 
higher after the first vaccine dose than before vaccination, 13.6% and 7.6%, respectively. After the 
second dose, the incidence of various disturbances increased. 
Menstrual changes after the first dose were short-lived and returned to normal by the time for 
vaccination with the second dose, approximately two to three months after vaccination with the first 
dose. Among women who reported menstrual changes after the first dose, 92.3% were also vaccinated 
with Dose 2. Among women who did not report any disturbances after the first dose, 94% were 
vaccinated with Dose 2. Among women who experienced changes after the first dose, almost two out 
of three women also experienced them after the second dose. Data about the duration of menstrual 
changes after Dose 2 are not yet available, but this will continue to be monitored. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 25/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH states that the study has several limitations. The data are self-reported, and the MAH argues 
that it is conceivable that women who experienced menstrual changes after the first dose were 
concerned and thus more likely to report this also after the second dose, compared with women who 
did not experience menstrual disorders after the first dose. Between 50 and 60 of the women 
previously had COVID-19. These were excluded from analysis. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
The study by Trogstad et al. included 5,688 women. The participants are part of an on-going cohort 
study (The Young Adult Cohort). They were randomly drawn from the National Population Registry and 
recruited in May 2021. Thus, recruitment is not driven by an incentive to participate caused by already 
experiencing menstrual disturbances, thereby minimizing the effects of selection bias. The 
questionnaire included several topics not related to menstruation to be answered prior to the 
menstrual disorders-questions excluding awareness of these disturbances as a primary incentive to 
respond. The study compares data before and after vaccination, where each individual is its own 
control. Applying this type of self-control case series design adjusts for the effect of confounding 
factors. The risk of recall bias is a limitation. Median interval from first vaccine dose to fill-in date was 
114 days (IQR 106-133 days), while median interval from second vaccine dose to fill-in date was 63 
days (IQR 56-83 days). Notably, to make sure the observation time after vaccination was long enough 
for the outcome to occur, only persons with intervals 42 days or longer were included. However, 
57.7% of menstruating women participating in the cohort tracked their menstruation using an app and 
had available data in aiding their answers, they were therefore not solely dependent on recall. 
Moreover, some awareness bias due to media attention on reported menstrual bleeding disturbances 
may not be ruled out. 
A significant increase in heavy menstrual bleeding was reported following COVID-19 vaccination. The 
estimated relative risk of more heavy menstrual bleeding than usual after the first vaccine dose was 
1.9 (95% CI 1.69 - 2.13), and 1.84 (1.66 - 2.03) after the second vaccine dose. Women who had 
experienced more heavy bleeding than usual after the first vaccine dose had a high risk of having the 
same reaction after the second vaccine dose, 63.4%.   
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 26/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of note, not all events related to menstrual disorders showed a change after vaccination, indicating 
that participants were not overall biased against menstrual cycle changes. 
Supplementary data were made available during the assessment of this response (please see section 
3.1.1). Trogstad et al. performed additional analysis stratified by concurrent medical conditions 
(diseases in uterus/cervix) and concomitant medication (contraception). These analyses did not 
identify any other factors than vaccination that could explain the increased risk of heavy menstrual 
bleeding seen in the main analysis. Analysis stratified by vaccine type showed that results for 
Comirnaty were consistent with the overall analysis. Heterologous vaccination (Comirnaty then 
Spikevax or Spikevax then Comirnaty) yielded similar results as homologous vaccination (Comirnaty or 
Spikevax only).  
The MAH recites some details from the study, but a proper discussion is lacking. The statement that “it 
is conceivable that women who experienced menstrual changes after the first dose were concerned and 
thus more likely to report this also after the second dose” is not endorsed as an argument to discard 
the findings, as a significant increase was already noted following the first dose.  Vaccination with dose 
2 was not affected by experience of heavy menstrual bleeding following dose 1. Further, questions of 
menstrual disturbances following both dose 1 and 2 were answered one time in the same survey. Thus, 
the MAH’s arguments regarding nervosity in participants are not relevant.  
In conclusion, the design of the study has sought to mitigate main limitations and enables valid 
support for an association between COVID (mRNA) vaccination and various menstrual cycle changes, 
including heavier than normal menstrual bleeding. 
Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Centre (Lareb): 
MAH’s response:  
A publication by the Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Centre Lareb described the number of cases of 
heavy menstrual bleeding, and the rate per 100,000 vaccinations, by age group, vaccine platform and 
number of doses, providing an overview of all reports of menstrual disorders following COVID-19 
vaccinations. Heavy menstrual bleeding was the second most common reported category of menstrual 
abnormalities (after amenorrhea/oligomenorrhea).  
Age group 
10-14 
15-19 
20-45 
45+ 
Unknown  Total 
Reporting rates per 
21.0, 9.9 
23.9, 
100 000 (dose 1, 
20.3 
90.1, 
87.5 
dose 2) 
8.5, 13.2 
36.8, 37.0 
Number of reports 
49, 35, 
137, 80, 
2.742, 
600, 240, 360  5, 3, 2. 
3.533 
(total, dose 1, 
14 
57 
dose 2) 
1.475, 
1.267 
It should be noted that the data should not be interpreted as incidence rates. The MAH has not 
provided their own discussion and conclusion on this publication, but has referred statements from the 
authors. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 27/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The data are from the spontaneous reporting system in the Netherlands. There is no backlog in the 
Dutch system, hence these numbers represent what has been reported. The Netherlands is at the 
moment the country with the second most submitted reports worldwide.  
Data provide an overview over cases and the extent of these events, which is also discussed in Q4. 
However, this is not a study per se as no research questions are asked or analysed.  
Medicine and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency. Coronavirus vaccine—weekly 
summary of Yellow Card reporting. 13 Jan 2022. 
MAH’s response:  
The MAH referred to this article which states that more than 36,000 reports of menstrual changes or 
unexpected vaginal bleeding following COVID-19 vaccination have so far been made to the yellow card 
surveillance scheme run by the UK Medicine and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). But 
as cycles vary naturally and the MHRA does not collect comparison data from unvaccinated people, 
these data cannot be used to establish whether menstrual changes increase after vaccination. 
Currently the MHRA concludes that current evidence does not support a link between changes to 
menstrual periods and COVID-19 vaccination in the UK, and it continues to advise that anyone noticing 
a change to their periods that persists over several of cycles, or who has any new vaginal bleeding 
after the menopause, is treated according to the standard clinical practice. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
This information is updated regularly. As of May 5th the total of ICSRs submitted is 39,746 relating to a 
variety of menstrual disorders after all three of the COVID-19 vaccines. 
The publication does not provide novel information that enables further assessment of this issue. 
Male V. Effect of COVID-19 vaccination on menstrual periods in a retrospectively recruited 
cohort.  
MAH’s response:  
The MAH refers briefly from a preprint article of a study on a retrospectively recruited cohort of 1,273 
participants over the age of 18 using a web-based form to collect details of their menstrual cycle, 
gynaecological medical history, and vaccination dates. The MAH states that the authors concluded that 
they were unable to find evidence supporting a causal association between COVID-19 vaccination and 
menstrual changes. In particular, the authors examined a subset of participants who were not using 
hormonal contraception and found no association between the timing of vaccination and flow of the 
next period. Additionally, there was no association between the brand of vaccine and any self-reported 
changes to timing or flow of the next period. The MAH writes that limitations included a study 
population primarily from the UK and the nature of the retrospective recruitment that might motivate 
more participation by women who had noticed changes in their periods. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 28/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
The PRAC Rapporteur does not entirely agree with the MAHs interpretation of the study authors’ 
conclusion. The authors write “In this dataset, we were unable to detect strong signals to support the 
idea that COVID-19 vaccination is linked to menstrual changes”. The study is inconclusive, and should 
not be used to either to dismiss or support a possible causal association because of the retrospective 
questionnaire-based design without a control group, and the research questions. This is also stated by 
the authors, who writes that prospectively recruited studies may be able to find associations that they 
were not powered to detect.   
Only patients who had a record of their normal menstrual cycle were included, and women were asked 
questions whether menstruation had changed following COVID-19 vaccination. It is a limitation that 
data were not gathered for cycles before and after vaccination separately, but only as change reported 
by the participants. Analysis thus included only comparison between subgroups (vaccine type, 
concomitant contraception or medical conditions, timing of vaccination and dose 1 vs dose 2), not the 
extent of change following vaccination per se. Menstrual flow was reported to be increased in 32% of 
women who received vaccination with Comirnaty. Due to the lack of control group, this finding was not 
further analysed or discussed by the authors.  
Nguyen BT, Pang RD, Nelson AL, et al. Detecting variations in ovulation and menstruation 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, using real-world mobile app data.  
MAH’s response:  
The MAH briefly mentions Nguyen et al, who aimed to study whether the pandemic had an effect on 
women’s menstrual cycles. 214 426 cycles were analysed from 18 076 app users. March-September 
2019 were compared to March- September 2020.The authors concluded that the COVID-19 pandemic 
did not induce population level-changes to ovulation and menstruation among women. The MAH did 
not provide a discussion of these results. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
The pandemic stress has been proposed by some, including the MAH in their response, as a partial 
explanation for the observed changes in women’s cycles. The study by Nguyen et al indicate that the 
pandemic in itself did not cause disturbances in women’s menstrual cycles. The pandemic stress should 
therefore not be included as a confounding factor when interpreting data from other studies addressing 
menstrual disorders following COVID-19 disease and/or vaccination.  
Alvergne A, Kountourides G, Argentieri MA, et al. COVID-19 vaccination and menstrual cycle 
changes: A United Kingdom (UK) retrospective case-control study.  
MAH’s response:  
The publication by Alvergne et al (preprint available in November 2021) concludes that following 
vaccination for COVID-19, menstrual disturbance occurred in 20% of individuals in a UK sample of 
4,989 individuals. The MAH did not provide a discussion on the findings of the study, but emphasizes 
that out of 33 variables investigated, smoking and a previous history of SARS-CoV-2 infection were 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 29/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
found to be risk factors while using oestradiol-containing contraceptives was found to be a protective 
factor. Further, the MAH refers to the authors stating that most menstruating women did not 
experience a change in their menstruating pattern and the MAH describes this as reassuring.  
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
The study by Alvergne et al. is a secondary analysis of a retrospective online survey. 26,710 women 
aged 18-43 participated in the study, and 4,989 vaccinated individuals were selected for analysis (47% 
received Comirnaty). The study was initially designed to evaluate the impact of COVID-19 pandemic 
but was amended to include effects of COVID-19 vaccination. Main outcome measure was report of any 
menstrual change (yes/no), with an added qualitative description of the reported changes.  
To limit selection bias, the title of the survey was general: “Female reproductive health and the COVID 
pandemic”. The study was conducted in March 2021, which with respect to selection bias, could be 
considered an advantage as there was little media attention at that time.  
Following vaccination, menstrual disturbances occurred in overall 20%: 6.1% of individuals reported 
more disruption, 1.5% reported less disruption and 11.5% reported “Other changes”. The MAH’s 
discussion focuses on other known factors linked to menstrual disturbances, e.g. smoking and 
contraceptive use. As the study had a self-control design, contribution of other factors is adjusted, and 
the discussion should rather have focused on the main finding. The MAH’s interpretation that 
corresponding result (80% did not have a menstrual disturbance) is reassuring, is not endorsed and 
appears as a misinterpretation of the result.  
It is acknowledged that the study has certain limitations. The lack of a control group limits conclusions 
on causality. Additionally, the results are presented for all types of menstrual change. Based on the 
qualitative descriptions provided by the participants, an analysis of the most common words used (e.g. 
heavy bleed), is presented, but results must be interpreted with caution.    
To conclude, the study provides little information that allow for any strong interpretation in any 
direction. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s overall assessment of available literature  
The MAH detected 7 publications for review. Their search criteria were not presented, and it is 
therefore not possible to evaluate whether all relevant publications were captured. The Assessors 
therefore performed a systematic search that did not detect further relevant publications. Overall, the 
amount of publications and research in this topic is scarce. 
Regarding the presentation of evidence: The MAH did not present a detailed structured review of the 
published studies with a separate evaluation and conclusion on each study which would have been 
expected. 
Main challenges for epidemiological research are recall bias and, depending on study design, 
selection/participation bias. This must be taken into account when evaluating the results. However, as 
a result of mass vaccination, a proper unvaccinated control group is challenging to obtain. 
Regarding selection bias, participants in the studies by Alvergne, Lee and Male were recruited after the 
vaccination took place and after media attention rose. It cannot be excluded that experiencing 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 30/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
menstrual disorders formed an incentive to participate. This does not imply that the reported results 
are not valid but may have led to an overestimation of actual incidences.   
The prospective study by Edelman et al. investigated cycle and menses lengths, showing a small (< 1 
day) but significant increase in cycle length when comparing cycles before/after COVID-19 vaccination. 
The study was not designed to evaluate the quantity of menstrual bleeding and is therefore less 
relevant for the current signal evaluation.  
The studies by Lee et al., Alvergne et al. and Male were all questionnaire-based and retrospective, and 
were not designed to detect a causal association due to the lack of control groups. Their study design 
and the research questions asked limits the relevance for the overall assessment. 
Contrary to, this, the Trogstad-study was based on an existing cohort with participants already 
recruited (age 18-30). Therefore, the selection bias is minimized. The survey was distributed after 
most of the participants had been vaccinated with two doses. Response rate was 68.4% (n = 5,688) 
and the questionnaire was designed to exclude experiencing menstrual disturbances as a motivator to 
complete the form. The study applied a self-control case series design analysis, where the possible 
contribution of other confounding factors is corrected since each participant functions as their own 
control. Further, the study also corrected for COVID-19 disease: A low number of women had a history 
of COVID-19 infection and excluding these from analysis did not change risk estimates. 
Considering the above, Trogstad et al. is considered the most relevant study that is currently available 
to assess a possible association between heavy menstrual bleeding and COVID-19 vaccination. 
Reported heavy menstrual bleeding was significantly increased following vaccination (first dose: RR 
1.9, 95% CI: 1.69 to 2.13; second dose: RR 1.84, 95% CI 1.66 to 2.03).  
Additional analysis from this study have been submitted to the PRAC Rapporteur during the 
assessment phase. The analyses did not identify any factors that could explain the increased risk of 
heavy menstrual bleeding seen in the main analysis. 
Data from another study (not yet published), by Caspersen et al. in 12-15-year-old Norwegian 
adolescents were made available during the assessment phase and have been included in this report. 
This study showed a significantly increased occurrence of heavier bleeding when comparing the most 
recent menstruation prior to vaccination with the first menstruation after vaccination (relative risk: 
1.61, 95% CI: 1.43 to 1.81). While menstruation disorders were overall common also in the 
unvaccinated group (22.3%), an increase was noted in vaccinated group in the first cycle after vaccine 
(from 22.6% to 25.1%). The results are consistent with the findings in the study by Trogstad et al and 
the consistency in the studies (across age groups) provides support for a possible association between 
heavy menstrual bleeding and COVID-19 vaccination.  
Overall, few studies have been performed to address this issue and literature is limited. The PRAC 
assessors consider that the review of the literature that is available supports at least a possible 
relationship between heavy menstrual bleeding and vaccination with Comirnaty. 
Question 3: Case overview 
A case overview was included in the response to Question 4 
Question 4: Case review 
MAHs response: 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 31/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pfizer’s safety database contains cases of adverse events reported spontaneously to Pfizer, cases 
reported by the health authorities, cases published in the medical literature, cases from Pfizer-
sponsored marketing programs, non-interventional studies, and cases of serious adverse events 
reported from clinical studies regardless of causality. The Pfizer safety database was searched for all 
BNT162b2 vaccine cases received through 15 February 2022 using the MedDRA version 24.1 search 
criteria: PT: Heavy menstrual bleeding. 
A total of 23,659 cases were identified from the database using the search criteria. Most of the cases 
(99.7%) were spontaneous reports, 47 (0.2%) were clinical study reports and 29 (0.1%) were solicited 
reports. Most of the cases, 16,940 (71.6%), were non-serious cases and the remaining 6719 (28.4%) 
were serious cases. Most of the cases (91.2%) were nonmedically confirmed and the remaining 2073 
(8.8%) were medically confirmed. 
The case distribution by age is shown below: 
The top ten reporting countries is shown below: 
When reported, the clinical outcome of the PT ‘Heavy menstrual bleeding’ was reported as not resolved 
at the time of reporting in 9,995 cases, resolved/resolving/resolved with sequelae in 8,574 cases and 
unknown in 5,433 cases.  
Out of the 23,659 cases, 523 were medically confirmed, serious cases. Within these medically 
confirmed, serious cases, there were 126 cases in patients younger than 17 years old and older than 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 32/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 years old which were excluded from further detailed review because anovulatory bleeding is a 
potential cause of acute menorrhagia in the adolescent and perimenopausal patient. 
Within the 397 remaining cases, 186 of them did not include medical history and/or information on risk 
factors; therefore, these were removed from the list of cases for further evaluation...... 
Within the 211 remaining cases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
there were 46 that reported use of hormonal contraception or an intrauterine device. 
an intrauterine device was involved in 9 cases and 4 of these cases provided details of the type 
of intrauterine device as copper.  
heterologous primary or booster vaccination schemes were noted in only 2 cases. 
only 4 cases reported information on when vaccination took place relating to the time of 
ovulation. In 1 case the patient was vaccinated during the luteal phase and in 3 the patients 
were vaccinated during the follicular/proliferative phase. No pattern related to cycle was seen 
in this small number of reports 
The 211 medically confirmed serious cases providing medical history was further analyzed to identify 
cases with a medical history of confounders such as blood coagulopathies, malignancies, hypothalamic 
or pituitary disorders, endocrine gland disorders, endometrial dysfunction, and/or confounding 
concomitant medications such as gonadal steroids, anticoagulants, aromatase inhibitors, selective 
estrogen/progesterone receptor modulators, medications associated with hyperprolactinemia, that may 
represent an alternative etiology for heavy menstrual bleeding. Within the case list, 71 cases were 
considered for further evaluation as these were not confounded by reported medical history and/or 
concomitant medications.   
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
A large number of ICSRs has been excluded from the analysis and subsequent causality assessment 
due to confounding information regarding concomitant medications or medical history. The presence of 
potential confounding factors in a real-world population is not unexpected, but as many factors in 
theory could affect menstrual cycle, there is a risk of excluding cases from further review with clinically 
relevant case details or temporal relationship that might have relevance for the assessment.  
186 of 397 cases were excluded from review because they did not include medical history and/or 
information on risk factors. Similarly, excluding cases without explicit information on the lack of 
specific risk factors runs a risk of missing case reports that could be relevant to include in the causality 
assessment.  
Six cases were also excluded because of concomitantly reported adverse events such as Guillain-Barre-
syndrome, immune thrombocytopenia, hypersensitivity, nosebleed, endometriosis), and 2 were 
excluded because they were breast feeding. It is not entirely clear why concomitant Guillain-Barre 
syndrome or hypersensitivity would warrant exclusion from further analysis, as to the PRAC 
Rapporteurs knowledge, these conditions are not strongly linked to menstrual disturbances. With 
regards to nosebleed, this could potentially be seen as a co-manifestation of the same mechanism 
causing heavy menstrual bleeding, thus it should not be routinely dismissed. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 33/87 
 
 
 
 
Of the remaining 65 cases, 48 more cases were excluded from review because they reported 
insufficient information on previous menstrual patterns. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment The MAH has excluded 48 cases because they lack data on previous 
menstrual pattern. This approach is not supported.  
The 16 remaining cases are described in detail, including a WHO-UMC Causality assessment and a 
justification of causality category. Cases were classified as follows: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Six unassessable 
Four unclassifiable 
Four possible 
Two unlikely 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The MAH’s interpretation of the criteria for classifying ICSRs according to the WHO-UMC causality 
assessment system is not supported. The PRAC Rapporteur considers that the criteria have not been 
correctly interpreted, and accordingly the ICSRs have been systematically classified at a lower level 
than what would be expected.  
The MAH has classified cases as “unlikely”, despite plausible temporal relationship, due to the presence 
of alternative causes, such as concomitant medications or disease. In the WHO-UMC causality 
assessment system, the category “unlikely” is described as “A clinical event, including laboratory test 
abnormality, with a temporal relationship to drug administration which makes a causal relationship 
improbable, and in which other drugs, chemicals or underlying disease provide plausible 
explanations.”, whereas the category “possible” is described as: “A clinical event, including laboratory 
test abnormality, with a reasonable time sequence to administration of the drug, but which could also 
be explained by concurrent disease or other drugs or chemicals. Information on drug withdrawal may 
be lacking or unclear” 
As an example, one case has been classified as “unlikely”. The rationale given by the MAH states that 
“there is a reasonable relationship to vaccination, however, alternate causality may be hypersensitivity 
and/or resumption of period post IU device removal”. Although it is agreed that other causes could not 
be ruled out in this particular case, this is not sufficient to classify a report as unlikely. In this case a 
plausible temporal relationship to vaccination exists, thus the category “unlikely” does not appear to be 
the appropriate category despite other possible explanations present in the case description. 
The MAH has also classified other cases as unassesable due to lack of information on details “such as 
migraine prophylaxis and skin infection/cellulitis treatment”. According to the case description the 
irregular menstruation appeared on the day of the vaccination, whereas unspecified migraine 
prophylaxis was started 3 months post vaccination. It is rather unclear why a treatment with no 
temporal relationship would render this case report as unassesable. 
In general, the MAH has classified cases as unclassified or unassessable due to lack of lab test and 
clinical course details. By demanding this level of detail to assess causality, the MAH sets the bar for 
ICSRs unreasonably high, thereby rendering a large proportion of the ICSRs unassessable or 
unclassifiable. The PRAC Rapporteur does not agree with this approach.  
Overall, due to the MAHs approach as detailed above, the MAHs causality assessment adds little value 
to the assessment of the signal.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 34/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAHs overall summary of the case review: 
Overall, 23,659 cases of heavy menstrual bleeding were reported to the Pfizer safety database in the 
context of over two billion of Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccines doses distributed. Of the 17 cases 
individually assessed, 6 were unassessable, 4 were unclassified, 4 were possible and 2 were unlikely 
causally related using the WHO-UMC causality assessment system. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The review should have prioritised serious and/or medically confirmed cases as specified in the LoQ, 
however the MAH has selected medically confirmed and serious cases. From a search result of 23,659 
cases, the MAH has selected 523 cases for review (those that were medically confirmed) and has 
provided details of 16 cases (Not 17 as was stated by the MAH in their summary). Hence, an unknown 
number of serious cases that are not medically confirmed have been left out of the review. 
There might be a substantial number of reports lacking. A search in Vigibase as of 19 April 2022 
yielded 4,508 serious reports of PT ‘Heavy Menstrual bleeding’ reported from consumer/non health 
professionals for the product Comirnaty globally. Several thousands of reports have therefore been left 
out of the review. 
Regarding the MAH’s main conclusion: It is agreed that the exposure is indeed vast. However, taking 
into account the backlog in the processing of ICSRs (not stated by the MAH), and underreporting, the 
numerical comparison of 23,659 cases with 2 billion doses is not correct. 
In Eudravigilance there are currently 186 reports coded with positive rechallenge (as per 29.04.2022). 
Overall, due to the strict criteria for excluding cases, and the method used in assessing causality, the 
PRAC Rapporteur considers the MAH’s case review of limited value in the assessment of the signal. 
However, as it is uncertain if any further in-depth analysis of ICSRs would provide further evidence at 
this stage of the assessment, no further case review is requested. 
Observed vs Expected Analysis 
Expected heavy menstrual bleeding cases for the O/E analyses were derived using background incidence 
rates from a study in the Netherlands that included females who consulted their general practitioner for 
heavy menstrual bleeding during 2004-2013. This study reported a mean annual incidence rate of 9.3 
per  1000  person  years  (95%  CI  8.5-10.2)  for  females  aged  10-59  years.  Based  on  the  age-specific 
background incidence rates provided in that study, all O/E ratios across all stratifications were below 1, 
suggesting that the number of reported cases is not higher than expected compared to unvaccinated 
persons. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 35/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The MAH has not adjusted for underreporting or the backlog. This issue is further exacerbated by the 
fact that the study used to calculate the incidence background rate relies on a different age group, from 
a different geographic population than the dataset used to compile observed cases, which could all bias 
the  estimates  both  through  the  actual  occurrence  of  heavy  menstrual  bleeding  and  through 
underreporting  behaviour  linked  to  the  spontaneous  surveillance  systems.  Such  potential  bias  should 
have  been  addressed  through  additional  uncertainty  analyses,  for  instance  using  a  stratification  by 
country or region. Here, the considerably low O/E ratio reported do not appear realistic, as it suggests 
the  occurrence  of  heavy  menstrual  bleeding  being  drastically  lowered  after  the  second  injection  of 
Pfizer/BioNTech  COVID-19  vaccine,  i.e.,  almost  divided  by  a  factor  of  5  to  10  compared  to  the 
background  rate.  Hence,  it  is  difficult  to  draw  any  robust  conclusions  based  on  the  current  analyses. 
Additionally, the MAH has not provided details on how the time at risk (PY) has been calculated. Due to 
these limitations, in particular the uncertainty regarding the backlog, the applicability of the O/E-analysis 
is uncertain.   
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 36/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5 – Mechanism of Action 
Abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB), including heavy menstrual bleeding, have widely varying prevalence 
rates (3%-30%) in the medical literature. This is thought not to be because the events are rare, but 
because  they  are  not  always  reported  by  women  to  their  HCPs.  Broadly,  classification  of  AUB  can  be 
thought  of  as  structural  or  non-structural  and  clinical  assessment  including  imaging,  lab  and 
histopathological data can lead to many subclassifications. Menstruation is described as an inflammatory 
process  and  the  change  in  endometrial  function  during  the  cycle  is  associated  with  changes  in 
endometrial  and  systemic  inflammatory  cells  and  cytokines.  The  inflammatory  process  is  initiated  by 
hormonal  changes  that  direct  immune  cells  to  the  endometrium  to  secrete  inflammatory  and  other 
mediators.  It  is  thought  that  these  mediators  contribute  to  events  like  endometrial  breakdown, 
vasodilation,  bleeding,  changes  in  vascular  regeneration  and  anticoagulation,  and  subsequently,  the 
signs and symptoms of AUB. How immune cell composition changes during the entire menstrual cycle, 
in disease states and non-disease states, is not well understood at present. ¨’ 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
The MAH has provided a general discussion on a potential mechanism of action, which is supported. 
Question 6 – Exposure in Females of Childbearing Potential 
The MAH estimates that there was a total of 84,994,706 females aged 15-45 years who received at least 
one dose of Comirnaty in the US or EEA countries through February 15, 2022. This estimate is based on 
data from the CDC in the US and ECDC in the EEA. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The exposure of females in US and EEA is estimated at 85 million doses.  
MAH’s summary and conclusion 
The MAH concludes that overall, the data do not support that heavy menstrual bleeding is caused by 
BNT  162b2  vaccine  at  this  time.  Therefore,  no  changes  to  the  product  information  and/or  the  risk 
management  plan  are  warranted  at  this  time.  The  topic  will  continue  to  be  monitored  using  routine 
pharmacovigilance. 
The MAH has included the following key points: 
• 
• 
The number of reports in the clinical trials were relatively small when considering the size and 
the length of the study. 
The  medical  literature  reveals  that  menstrual  abnormalities  are  very  common,  as  well  as  the 
pandemic stress, anxiety and depression. 
•  A clear pathophysiological pathway is not understood. 
• 
The study by Edelman et al. that did not support a significant effect of vaccination on the number 
of days of menstrual bleeding. 
•  4 of the >23,000 cases of heavy menstrual bleeding were assessed as possible. 
• 
The  O/E  ratios  do  not  indicate  that  reported  events  are  higher  than  expected  based  on 
background incidence rates. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 37/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur’s overall comment 
Clinical trials 
It is agreed that the number of reports from the clinical trial is low. However, it could be questioned 
whether the trial was designed to detect this safety issue. The reporting was unsolicited. The reaction 
is frequently occurring in the general population. It is therefore plausible that female participants 
experiencing changes in their menstrual pattern or menstrual bleeding after vaccination would not 
have intuitively suspected it related to the vaccine – bearing in mind that this reaction is not commonly 
associated with vaccination. 
Secondly, the age of the trial participants is highly relevant information, and the MAH has not provided 
this information even though this was specifically requested. The number of women in the trial is not 
sufficient information –the number of women of childbearing age is relevant for this signal.  
The MAH has disregarded that there was a numerical imbalance in the clinical trial; in the placebo-
controlled trial it was 4 (vaccine) vs 2 (placebo) cases. In a trial of this size, risk factors are assumed 
to be evenly distributed. Therefore, a numerical imbalance should not be ignored.  
To summarize, data from the clinical trial are not sufficient to allow for a proper assessment of a 
possible causal association as the MAH has not responded to the issue correctly. 
Overall, information from clinical trials does not provide data that is supportive in neither establishing a 
causal association nor dismissing one.  
Published literature  
The MAH states that the published literature reveals that menstrual abnormalities are common, which 
is endorsed. The MAH mentions the pandemic stress as an explaining factor behind reported menstrual 
disturbances, even though data provided by the MAH (Nguyen) indicate that the pandemic did not 
have any influence on the menstrual cycle. 
In the MAH’s summary and conclusion, the study by Edelman et al. is listed specifically, which 
investigated cycle/menses length, and not flow/volume. This study is therefore not considered by the 
assessors as the most relevant study for ‘heavy menstrual bleeding’ which is being evaluated. 
Overall, available literature on this topic is scarce. Most studies have not been optimally designed to 
investigate heavy menstrual bleeding following COVID-19 vaccination and methodological limitations 
constrain firm conclusions.  
In this aspect, the study by Trogstad et al. appears as the most robust. Even though it is not free of 
methodological weaknesses, it has sought to adjust for selection bias by using an already existing 
cohort and for confounding factors of constant nature by applying an SCCS analysis.  
The study also shows that COVID 19 vaccines are associated with increased menstrual bleeding.  
Subsequent analysis did not identify any factors, including diseases in cervix/uterus, positive SARS-
COV-2 or use of contraceptives, that could explain the increased risk of heavy menstrual bleeding seen 
in the overall analysis. 
A similar finding of heavy menstrual bleeding following one dose of Comirnaty was shown in a 12-15 
year cohort, which show consistency between age groups and cohorts (Caspersen et al., 
supplementary information made available during the assessment).  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 38/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pathophysiologic pathway 
The MAH states that a pathophysiological pathway is not yet understood, which is endorsed. However, 
the pathophysiological mechanisms of myocarditis and pericarditis which are listed reactions in the 
SmPC, are not understood either. The limited knowledge regarding the pathophysiological pathway is 
considered to neither strengthen nor weaken the signal.  
The Case Review 
The MAH emphasizes that only 4 ICSRs were assessed as possibly related to the vaccine, 
from >23,000 ICSRs. The MAH’s review of the >23,000 ICSRs is discussed in detail in the relevant 
section. The assessors disagree with the selection of cases and the evaluation. The MAH has eliminated 
the majority of the ICSRs from review: in total 99.94% of reports have been dismissed. The 
methodology of the MAH’s review is not supported. The causality assessments are not endorsed, this is 
thoroughly justified in the relevant section. Due to the method used by the MAH, the case review has 
limited value in the assessment of the signal. It is acknowledged that spontaneous reports have severe 
limitations in assessment of causality, however, the large number of reports, many cases with positive 
rechallenge, and single cases with strong temporal relationship could indicate a potential causal 
relationship or at least a reasonable possibility.  
The O/E-analysis 
The MAH has submitted an observed to expected analysis with O/E-ratios below 1. However, due to 
the lack of information regarding the MAH’s calculation of time at risk, and the uncertainty related to 
the backlog of ICSRs, the applicability of this analysis is difficult to ascertain. Additionally, the study 
chosen to calculate background incidence could bias the estimates and has not been addressed 
through uncertainty analysis. The considerably low O/E-ratios does not appear realistic, and it is 
difficult to draw any robust conclusions based on the current analysis.  
Summary and conclusion 
Overall, data from the clinical trials identified a numerical imbalance, and thus cannot be used to rule 
out a causal relationship. Data from spontaneous reports, and in particular information from literature, 
and the additional data provided by Caspersen et al and Trogstad et.al. indicate a potential causal 
relationship between vaccination with Comirnaty and heavy menstrual bleeding. Having considered the 
totality of available data, the PRAC Rapporteur considers that a causal relationship is a reasonable 
possibility.  
The scope of a signal assessment procedure is not to necessarily conclude with absolute certainty on a 
causal association. The SmPC guidance document states that the SmPC section 4.8 should include 
information when there is at least a reasonable possibility of a causal association. The PRAC 
Rapporteur concludes that current available evidence supports a possible causal association and that 
this criterion is fulfilled, and the SmPC and PIL should be updated to reflect current knowledge.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 39/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.  Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation 
Based  on  currently  available  evidence  the  PRAC  Rapporteur  considers  that  the  SmPC/PIL  should  be 
updated with information regarding heavy menstrual bleeding. The MAH is asked to propose a frequency 
category. 
The PRAC Rapporteur considers that “heavy menstrual bleeding” should be listed in section 4.8 of the 
SmPC  
Text for SmPC 
Section 4.8: Heavy period. 
Text for PIL 
Section 4 (possible side effects): heavy period 
3.3.  Comments from other PRAC members and MAH(s)  
Comment from Member State (MS11) 
Based on the currently provided information we do not agree with the PRAC Rapporteur NO’s proposal 
to add ‘Heavy period’ to the SmPC section 4.8. The current assessment report does not include 
sufficient supporting information to underpin this recommendation. 
Considering the high background rate of the events irrespective of vaccination a coincidental finding 
based on temporal association cannot be excluded based on the currently available evidence. 
Clinical trial evidence 
In isolation [without considering confounding, risk factors, biological plausibility, consistency of 
available evidence etc], a numerical imbalance is not sufficient to establish causality. 
The MAH should provide a more detailed discussion regarding the numerical imbalance of the clinical 
trials – 9 (vaccine) vs 3 (placebo), and the imbalance 4 (vaccine) vs 2 (placebo) in the placebo-
controlled portion of the C4591001 study. This discussion should at least include (but not limited to): 
case details i.e. number of females of childbearing potential, baseline characteristics, risk factors, age, 
medical history and investigator’s and/or MAH’s evaluation of causality. 
Literature 
In line with the CMS comments from MS12, MS10, MS1 and our assessment of literature the currently 
available scientific literature is considered inconclusive and has too many limitations to support an (at 
least reasonably possible) causal relation. 
Case review 
Lack of detailed information (i.e. total number of supportive and unsupportive cases, case IDs, 
narratives, WHO causality scaling etc) precludes full appraisal of the strength and totality of 
evidence.As a minimum, in-depth assessment of the 71 cases that were considered by the MAH for 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 40/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
further evaluation [i.e. the cases not confounded by reported medical history and/or concomitant 
medications] should be included in the assessment report. 
Regarding the 186 rechallenge cases, it should be clearly stated how many of these were informative, 
supportive, unsupportive, and uninformative/unassessable for causality.  
If the Rapporteur considers the MAH’s triage and review of relevant cases insufficient, additional data 
or more critical evaluation should be requested from the MAH, or - if preferred by the Rapporteur -, 
Rapporteur’s own critical appraisal of cases can be included in the assessment report. To understand 
the Rapporteur’s conclusion, it would be helpful to see the cases where the Rapporteur disagrees with 
the MAH regarding WHO causality scaling as well as the number of supportive [i.e. WHO 
probable/possible] and unsupportive [WHO unlikely/unassessable] cases. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
Clinical trials data: The comment from the MS that seen in isolation the numbers from the clinical trials 
are not sufficient to establish causality, is agreed upon as has been discussed in the assessment 
report. 
Literature: We agree that there is limited available data from the literature, and that the available 
studies have limitations. However, we are of the opinion that the review of available literature, 
including the unpublished data presented in the AR, provide support for at least a reasonable possible 
causal association. 
Case review: The MS states that 71 cases should be included in the AR as a minimum. However, the 
MAH did not submit details of the 71 cases that were considered by the MAH for further evaluation, 
hence they were unavailable, and therefore not included in the assessment report. The MAH submitted 
details of 16 cases. Regarding the 186 rechallenge cases, these were not part of the submitted data 
package from the MAH, but was detected in EV by the PRAC Rapporteur. Since they were not part of 
the response document, they have not been evaluated, but information on the number of rechallenge 
cases are of value, hence the PRAC Rapporteur identified this number.  
The 16 cases that were described by the MAH (with disagreements as regards WHO causality 
assessment) were not included with full details in the AR, but were available in the response document 
and therefore was available to the MS.  
The comment from MS11 could be interpreted as a request for an RSI, since many issues are proposed 
clarified. We are of the opinion that these issues (more details on rechallenge cases, a more critical 
review of relevant cases) would not provide essential information at this stage. We are of the opinion 
that the currently available data is sufficient to establish a at least reasonable possible causal 
association in accordance with the SmPC guideline. Therefore we do not consider that an RSI is 
necessary. 
Comment from Member State (MS1) 
The proposed recommendation by the signal lead Member State to update the SmPC section 4.8 is not 
endorsed. Based on the data presented in the AR, the proposal to update the PI is based on a small 
imbalance in clinical trials, the study by Trogstad et al. including additional confidential analyses 
provided by NO, and the high number of reported cases of Heavy Menstrual Bleeding. Regarding 
clinical trial data, the signal lead Member State concludes that the response by the MAH is 
unstructured and has not provided all the requested information, including age of study participants 
which is highly relevant, also when considering the imbalance. However, the signal lead Member State 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 41/87 
 
 
 
 
 
concludes that “Overall, information from clinical trials does not provide data that is supportive in 
neither establishing a causal association nor dismissing one” which is endorsed. 
Regarding literature, the MS1 Medicines Agency does not consider the study by Trogstad et al. 
(including additional confidential analyses and the provided manuscript by Caspersen et al.) to have 
sufficient power to support an update of the product information with heavy menstrual bleeding. MS1 
Medicines Agency agrees with the study limitations already outlined by MS12, and wishes to add the 
following observations: 
- 
Recall bias: It is argued by the signal lead Member State that 57.7 % of the participating 
women in the study used an app to track their period, and that these women were not solely 
dependent on recall, thereby limiting recall bias. However, the usefulness of these apps should be 
considered with regards to Heavy Menstrual Bleeding. The tracking and registration would be highly 
dependent on the interface of the app, often with few categories to indicate the daily amount of 
bleeding. It is considered that the main purpose of many of these apps is prediction of cycle length, 
bleeding period and perhaps prediction of fertile window. It should also be noted that tracking may be 
subjective and can be performed retrospectively.  
- 
Information on cycle pattern: In the SCCS analysis, the last cycle before vaccination is 
compared to the first cycle after vaccination. It would have been useful if more information om 
menstrual cycle pattern had been considered. Either as an inclusion criterion (e.g. regular and normal 
cycle length for x cycles) or a possible stratification. Especially considering that the background 
incidence of variations in menstrual cycles in the study is high (37.8%). 
Furthermore, the signal lead Member State included the unpublished manuscript of a study by 
Caspersen et al. regarding menstrual changes in 12-15-year-old adolescents after COVID-19 
vaccination. This is appreciated. However, to fully take this data into consideration, it would be useful 
to have the complete data available. The tables and supplementary tables mentioned in the manuscript 
in annex II were not provided. Based on the manuscript, this study seems similar in study design to 
Trogstad et al., and is therefore subject to some of the same limitations. The two studies do show 
consistency across age groups. However, in terms of causality, the MS1 Medicines Agency considers 
that further studies are needed to confirm the findings in these studies.  
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The MS comments on the study by Trogstad et al, the use of apps for recalling menstrual 
abnormalities, and states that this is highly dependent on the interface of the app and that it has few 
categories. The MS states that it is considered that the main purpose of many of these apps is 
prediction of cycle length, bleeding period and perhaps prediction of fertile window. We agree that it 
would be helpful to have an overview over the most used apps, and how the interface describes 
menses volume, but currently this information is not available. It is also agreed that tracking is 
subjective and can be performed retrospectively. Please note that some apps have a push alert to 
remind the user to register her menstruation. Further, the MS comments on the usefulness of more 
information on previous cycles, for instance including only those with a normal cycle pattern, or a 
stratification. The women were asked if the vaccination induced a certain change (yes/no) for several 
types of events. A subjective noticed change in a woman’s cycle could indicate that the cycle is usually 
predictive (if something is noticed to be changed, some form of subjective interpretation of a baseline 
is necessary) hence it could be argued that this is a form of selection that the MS comments.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 42/87 
 
 
 
 
 
With regards to the tables and supplementary tables to the manuscript by Caspersen et.al., they have 
been attached to the manuscript in annex II.  
We agree that further studies to confirm the findings would have been ideal, however at this stage of 
the pandemic where most of the population has already been vaccinated, we consider that this is not 
feasible. 
Comment from Member State (MS10) 
The NO team is thanked for a thorough and comprehensive assessment.  
It is challenging to evaluate a potential causal relationship between a vaccine and heavy menstrual 
bleeding, a condition that is very common and can be induced by different circumstances/events such 
as e.g., stress, caloric restriction, or heavy exercise. Furthermore, heavy menstrual bleeding is a 
subjective, not easily standardized condition. Thus, data from self-reporting or even questionnaire data 
are very difficult to interpret, especially, as in this case, there has been a lot of attention in the media. 
The aspect of heterogenous aetiology is also reflected in the publication by Lee et al, which is included 
in this signal evaluation, suggesting that increased/breakthrough bleeding was significantly associated 
with age, other systemic vaccine side effects (fever, fatigue), history of pregnancy or giving birth, and 
ethnicity. 
The Rapporteur proposes to include “heavy period” in the SmPC section 4.8 based on one 
questionnaire report from the Norwegian Institute of Public Health. The study has not been peer-
reviewed and is only available as a pre-print version. In this study, there was a generally high 
incidence of the various menstrual disturbances among menstruating women aged 18–30 years; 
37.8% reported at least one change during their last period before vaccination, 39.4% reported at 
least one change after Dose 1, and 40.9% after Dose 2. A significantly increased risk specifically after 
the first dose is reported (RR1.90, CI 1.69-2.13). The authors of the study themselves conclude that 
the interpretation of the study results is limited by several putative confounders such as media 
attention, a view that can be endorsed. 
The additional evidence presented in this AR, does not include data from clinical trials or cases from 
the MAH global database that at this stage support an at least possible causal association. 
Therefore, the available data is not considered sufficient to conclude upon a reasonable causal 
relationship. Nevertheless, the topic should be closely monitored in upcoming PSURs. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The general comment from MS10 on the assessment is highly appreciated. The challenges on the 
evaluation of the condition “heavy menstrual bleeding” are agreed upon. 
The MS comments that the Rapporteur proposes to include “heavy period” in the SmPC section 4.8 
bases on one questionnaire report from NIPH. This is not acknowledged, and seems to be a rough 
oversimplification of the assessment. As the MS kindly commented, this has been a thorough 
assessment based on a data package from the MAH with limitations and without having responded to 
all LoQs. All data that were available as been taking into consideration. 
The MS proposes to closely monitor the issue in upcoming PSURs. We are of the opinion that currently 
there is enough data to conclude, and therefore does not agree upon postponing an assessment.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 43/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comment from Member State (MS12) 
Spontaneous reports as well as study data have major limitations, this also included the manuscript by 
Lill Trogstad et al. (2022, preprint and additional confidential analyses presented by No) “Increased 
occurrence of menstrual disturbances in 18- to 30-year-old women after COVID-19 vaccination” 
Trogstad et al. reported an increased occurrence of menstrual disturbances, i.e. more heavy bleeding, 
prolonged bleeding, and short interval between menstruations among 5688 women aged 18-30 years. 
Whereas the authors used the self-controlled case series (SCCS) design to perform the statistical 
analysis, which is adequate, the data were collected using a mobile phone questionnaire that was sent 
out once in late in October 2021 at a time when most of the participating women had already been 
vaccinated twice. 
The method of data collection (cross-sectional survey) is associated with many limitations: 
1) 
The survey was purely retrospective, although questions about menstruation before and after 
each Covid 19 vaccination were included. Thus, there is no “true” baseline. This would have been 
different if women had been questioned at different times, i.e. before and after each Covid-19 
vaccination. 
2) 
Depending on how long ago the vaccination(s) took place, women may remember different 
menstrual cycles (before/after the first covid-19 vaccination; before/after the second covid-19 
vaccination) more or less well. 
3) 
In autumn 2021, the topic of covid-19 vaccination and menstrual disorders was already 
discussed in the press and the topic was also picked up by social media. This may have consciously or 
unconsciously influenced the young women's response to the questionnaire. 
Considering the above mentioned limitations, further studies (preferably prospective longitudinal ones) 
are needed to test the hypotheses generated within the scope of the cross-sectional surveys (Trogstad 
and others). In our view, in the absence of other clues to a signal (e.g. increased SMR in the observed-
versus-expected analysis in spontaneous reporting), the evidence available up to this point is not 
sufficient to include menstrual disturbances as a side effect in the SmPC of Comirnaty. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
Regarding the Trogstad study, the MS selects 3 limitations which are described. These limitations are 
acknowledged. Prospective longitudinal studies would indeed have been helpful, but taking into 
consideration the situation as of today with the mass vaccinations being over, recruitment to a 
prospective study would be challenging. Therefore we consider that prospective observational trials are 
not realistic. We therefore do not support the proposal to await further studies.  
The MS mentions a lack of clues to a signal, such as an increased SMR in the observed-versus-
expected-analysis in spontaneous reporting. It is not entirely clear if the MS suggests that such an 
analysis should be based on data provided by MAH in the form of an O/E-analysis, if so this is not 
supported giving the limitations of the O/E-analysis as pointed out in the assessor’s comment box in 
the AR.  We do not entirely agree that no clues to a signal exist, other sources of disproportionality 
analysis have been consulted: When consulting the WHO database Vigibase, the IC0.25 is 
disproportional, with a value of 2.7 (number of observed cases are 36 262, whereas number of 
expected cases are 5394. A positive value in the iC0.25 is the traditional statistical basis for signal 
detection at UMC). The PRR025 value is 10.8, the PRR value is 11.0, the ROR0,25 is 11.0 and the ROR 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 44/87 
 
 
 
 
 
is 11.1 (as of 25 MAY 2022). EudraVigilance data show an ROR(-) of 11.32 as of 22 May 2022. O/E-
analysis are a valuable tool in signal detection but less emphasis should be put on them when 
evaluating signals, especially a reaction like Heavy Menstrual Bleeding. 
Comment from Member State (MS3) 
We overall agree with both PRAC Rapporteurs that more data are needed to include heavy menstrual 
bleeding in section 4.8 of the product information. Specially, the cases with positive rechallenge should 
be investigated in detail. In addition, more studies would be necessary to reach firm conclusions, 
although we believe that a proper study design may be difficult in practice.  
However, it is a fact that a large number of reports on heavy menstrual bleeding for both Comirnaty 
and Spikevax, some of them with positive rechallenge, have been reported and that available major 
studies (Torgstad and Carpensen), albeit limitations, points towards heavy menstrual bleeding.  
Therefore, although it is unclear a causal relationship with the vaccine, this issue may create 
unnecessary worries in women, being normally mild and transitory disorders, we propose that a 
general warning in section 4.4 could be implemented to offer information about the temporal 
association with the vaccine as well as to state that the reported cases are mostly transitory and mild: 
“Cases of heavy menstrual bleeding temporarily associated with <Comirnaty> <Spikevax> vaccination 
have been reported. Most of them are transient and mild in nature. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The MS suggest to include a text in section 4.4. This is not endorsed. Risks included in section 4.4 
have at least a reasonable possibility of a causal association. Further, the guideline states that “Any 
adverse reactions described in this section or known to result from conditions mentioned here should 
also be included in section 4.8”. Also, the criteria for inclusion in 4.4 are not considered fulfilled, as 
there is no specific advice to health care professional in order to reduce the risk. The guideline states 
that “Information on a specific risk should be given in section 4.4 only when the risk leads to a 
precaution for use or when healthcare professionals have to be warned of this risk”. We therefore do 
not support including this in section 4.4, in order to comply with the SmPC Guideline, 2009. Further, 
regarding the wording of “transient and mild in nature”: the current evaluation did not investigate the 
characteristics of the heavy menstrual bleeding such as its duration, and therefore we would be 
cautious to include information on severity and duration in the Product Information at this stage.  
We appreciate the MS comment that there is a need for a PI update. 
Comment from Member State (MS13) 
Based on the totality of available data, we consider that there is currently insufficient evidence to 
support a possible causal association between heavy menstrual bleeding and Comirnaty vaccination.  
All presented literature studies were limited due to recruitment of participants retrospectively, use of 
non-validated questionnaires, selection and recall bias. In the study by Trogstadt et al., while heavier 
than normal bleeding was identified as the change most associated with vaccination, the prevalence of 
any menstrual disturbance was 37.8% prior to vaccination, highlighting the high level of variation in 
normal cycles. A number of limitations were noted, including a lack of an unvaccinated control group 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 45/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and a relatively low response rate (68.4%). We note that the authors highlight the key assumption of 
the SCCS model,1 that the probability of being vaccinated is not affected by the occurrence of 
menstrual disturbances, but that it is not known whether menstrual disturbances may have influenced 
vaccination behaviour. Therefore, we consider that the identified studies do not provide sufficiently 
robust evidence that Comirnaty is associated with heavy menstrual bleeding.  
We consider that additional, methodologically robust studies are required to investigate this potential 
association and to conclude on a causal relationship. We suggest that the MAH could be requested to 
discuss the feasibility of exploring the topic further in ongoing PASS studies.  
Petersen I, Douglas I, Whitaker I. Self controlled case series methods: an alternative to standard 
epidemiological study designs. BMJ 2016;354:i4515 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The Trogstad study was recruited prospectively, so the statement that all studies were retrospectively 
recruited is not endorsed. 
We agree on the comment regarding the SCCS-analysis. 
We are not of the opinion that a response rate of 68.2% is considered low. We consider it quite high 
seen in relation to the study type. 
We do not consider that additional methodological robust studies such as randomized controlled trials 
are feasible in today’s situation; please see the comment and justification addressed to DE. 
Comment from Member State (MS4) 
The PRAC Rapporteur proposition to update section 4.8 of the SmPC with ‘Heavy period’ is not 
endorsed.  
In line with the comments of other MSs (MS12, MS10, MS11), we consider that the currently available 
scientific literature is inconclusive. Although the publication of Trogstad et al (2022) provides very 
valuable data, we support the analysis of MS12 regarding the limitations of the study.  
However, considering the concern among women of childbearing age regarding menstrual disturbance, 
we would recommend the PRAC to consider the MS3 proposition for a general warning in section 4.4. It 
would be implemented for reassurance, stating that the reporting cases are mostly transitory and mild. 
The text we propose is amended as:  
“Menstrual changes, such as heavier menstrual bleeding, temporarily associated with <Comirnaty> 
<Spikevax> vaccination have been reported. Most of them are transient and mild in nature” 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
We acknowledge the concern among women of childbearing age. However we do not support including 
the proposed text in section 4.4, in order to comply with the SmPC Guideline, 2009. Please see the 
more detailed comment addressed to MS3.   
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 46/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comment from Member State (MS5) 
MS5 does not fully agree to the conclusion and proposal from the Rapporteur assessment report. 
First, MS5 endorses the rapporteur’s assessment that several important information is missing such as 
the large number of ICSRs excluded from the analyses, the selection by the MAH of the serious and 
medically-confirmed serious cases while the review should have prioritised serious and/or medically 
confirmed cases. Moreoever, some information could be misleading such as MAH’s interpretation of the 
criteria for classifying ICSRs according to the WHO-UMC causality assessment system.  
Secondly, MS5 considers several of the published non-interventional studies mentioned in this report 
have some methodological limitations and unconclusive results. For the manuscript by Lill Trogstad et 
al., the study reports an increased occurrence of menstrual disturbances, i.e. more heavy bleeding, 
prolonged bleeding, and short interval between menstruations among 5,688 women aged 18-30 years. 
The used of the self-controlled case series design is adequate; however, this study has an important 
limitation which is the use of an unvalidated self-questionnaire concomitantly with media attention on 
this topic during the study.  
However, MS5 considers that the available data cannot be ruled out a causal relationship between 
vaccination and heavy menstrual bleeding.  
Awaiting for more comprehensive analyses on this important topic, MS5 considers that the update of 
the SmPC with “heavy menstrual bleeding” in section 4.8 should wait until the review of all missing 
information to be provided by the MAH and MS5 proposes a warning information to the public and 
healthcare professionals to be added to the in the section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
If accepted for Cominarty, considering the uncertainties in the mechanism of action, the number of 
cases with both Spikevax and Comirnaty and heterologous vaccination patterns, this warning 
information should be also added in the SmPC of Spikevax. 
In addition, MS5 proposes that the MAH provide the cumulative review and the PRAC assess this 
review within a next turn of this signal, and not to close the signal for now. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
We acknowledge the comments regarding the limitations of the MAH’s response. Although we agree 
that relevant data are missing from their analysis, we consider that the data available is sufficient to 
conclude that there is a reasonable possibility of a causal association. Therefore we do not support the 
proposal for an additional RSI with a cumulative review.   
Regarding the inclusion of a warning statement in section 4.4.: this is not endorsed, please see the 
more detailed comment addressed to MS3. 
Comment from Member State (MS8) 
The LMS proposal to update section 4.8 of the SmPC with “heavy period” is not endorsed. 
Although a numerical imbalance has been observed in clinical trials, the analysis of data conducted by 
the MAH is not sufficiently detailed and accurate to elucidate a possible causal association. Lack of 
information on clinical details of these cases are noted and we consider that further discussion is 
warranted.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 47/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We agree with LMS view that the MAH approach to case review is not completely supported and we 
considered that further details should be requested regarding overall number of informative and 
uninformative cases, age stratification, concomitant medications, risk factors and clinical history and 
WHO causality assessment, particularly for cases with rechallenge.  
Overall, available literature on vaccine-associated menstrual disorders and particularly on heavy 
menstrual bleedings is scarce and limited with controversial results. Both studies by Trogstad et al. 
(including the very appreciated additional confidential analyses) and by Caspersen et al. have some 
limitations that affects the power of both studies, first of all the retrospective nature of data collection 
by phone survey. Moreover, it is unclear whether all risk factors for menstrual disorder and heavy 
periods have been considered as confounding factors.  
We consider that further details are needed about the methodological limitations of the O/E analysis 
proposed by the MAH.  
Therefore, we consider that the available data are not sufficient to support changes in PI at this stage. 
Further details are needed on the available data. Moreover, we propose to ask to the MAH whether this 
issue may be investigated in the ongoing PASS studies planned in the RMP or in other longitudinal 
studies. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
The MS comments that further details of the cases should be requested, particularly for cases with 
positive rechallenge. We are of the opinion that these issues (more details on rechallenge cases, a 
more critical review of relevant cases) would not provide essential information at this stage. We are of 
the opinion that the currently available data is sufficient to establish at least a reasonable possible 
causal association in accordance with the SmPC guideline. Therefore we do not consider that an RSI is 
necessary. 
The MS considers that further details are needed about the methodological limitations of the O/E-
analysis. We are of the opinion that an O/E-analysis of “heavy menstrual bleeding” is of limited 
usefulness in the evaluation phase of a signal procedure. 
Regarding the need for investigation in ongoing PASS studies, please see comment to MS12.  
Comment from Member State (MS6) 
We endorse the Rapporteur’s view that despite the limitations of the Trogstad et al study and the 
spontaneous reporting data, together they indicate a potential causal relationship or at least a 
reasonable possibility of that, and endorse the Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation. Further we 
suggest the use of the MedDRA PT ‘heavy menstrual bleeding’ instead of the LLT ‘heavy period’ in the 
SmPC section 4.8.  
We support the Rapporteurs’s view, that the MAH’s case review is of limited value in the assessment of 
the signal, as a vast majority of the reports was excluded from the analysis (initially over 23 000 
ICSRs, of which finally 71 cases were considered for further evaluation by the MAH).  
Heavy menstrual bleeding is an ADR that seldomly leads to contacts with health care and thus is likely 
to be reported mostly by consumers. Since the diagnosis of heavy menstrual bleeding relies on the 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 48/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anamnesis given by the patient, no medical confirmation is necessary for a reliable case, and the non-
serious cases are as relevant for the causality consideration as the serious. We acknowledge that case-
level analysis is not possible for all the cases given the number of reports. However, we do not agree 
with the approach that this leads to dismissing majority of the ICSRs when assessing the causal 
relationship.  
Consumer reporting has also been promoted for a decade in the EU, and these reports cannot be 
excluded from safety analyses, at least when received in unforeseen quantities, although they are of 
limited quality. If they are considered of no value, the whole concept of consumer reporting should be 
re-evaluated. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The MS comment is appreciated. The reflections around consumer reporting are endorsed, and 
appreciated. 
The MS proposes to include ‘heavy menstrual bleeding’ instead of the LLT ‘heavy period’. This is 
endorsed, and the proposed recommendation has been updated accordingly.  
Comment from Member State (MS2) 
We can support the Signal PRAC Rapporteur conclusions to add heavy bleeding in the PI, however, 
before the final conclusion is made, additional data about cases from CTs and EV cases with positive 
rechallenge should be completed. Additionally, the MAH should provide the assessment of non-
confirmed serious cases which was not made. 
The analysis of CTs based on PTs revealed the numerical imbalance, 9 cases in vaccinated women vs. 3 
cases in unvaccinated women. Unfortunately, as the Signal PRAC Rapporteur noted, the cases were not 
well structured by the MAH and exposure in women with childbearing potential was not provided 
either. Pre-existing medical history was described in 5 cases only (3 in vaccinated women, 2 in 
unvaccinated women). Therefore, the MAH should provide well structured, detailed description and 
assessment of these cases including an exposure of women of childbearing potential in CTs 
Regarding the study of Trogstad, the self-controlled case series design is a suitable design for 
investigation of vaccines. The bias between a case and a control caused by inter-individual differences 
is minimized. Currently, when the exposure to vaccines is high in a general population, it could be 
expected that the populations of vaccinated and unvaccinated women are considerably different and 
comparison of these groups could be less suitable. The selection bias is minimized by random assorting 
of women from another ongoing population study. Therefore, inclusion of women was not driven by the 
existing menstrual disorders following vaccination. The recall bias was significantly solved by the app 
which was used by almost 60% of women. Even though menstrual disorders were observed in high 
percentage of women already before vaccination, RR increased after both doses of vaccine (1.9 (95% 
CI 1.69 - 2.13) after the first vaccine dose and 1.84 (1.66 - 2.03) after the second vaccine dose). The 
additional analyses were performed and the cases were stratified based on the pre-existing 
gynaecologist conditions or using of contraception which demonstrated higher RR also in women 
without any disease or contraception. 
The results of this study are further strengthened by consistent results of another pre-print study 
(Caspersen et al), which has a similar design. The study was performed in girls of 12-15 years old. The 
occurrence of heavy menstrual bleeding was significantly higher in vaccinated girls with RR 1,61. 
Another study of Nguyen BT, Pang RD, Nelson AL, et al. which did not demonstrate higher risk of 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 49/87 
 
 
 
 
 
menstrual disorders in relation to pandemic situation generally was also discussed and should be taken 
into consideration for this assessment. 
We are aware that patients’ self-reporting is not ideal for demonstrating a causal relationship, however 
because of the character of menstrual disorders we believe that higher percentage of confirmed cases 
cannot be expected, nor in the future. Waiting for better HCPs reported cases could mean that we 
never could conclude on this signal.  The nature of this disorder should be taken into account. Majority 
of women do not visit their gynaecologist due to transient menstrual disorders only. However, in 
accordance with pharmacovigilance legislation, the patient cases should be taken into account during 
the assessment. The role of patient cases is significantly higher in situations, when causal relationship 
cannot be established based on medically confirmed cases because of the nature of condition. Even, if 
the case of transient heavier menstrual bleeding is medically confirmed, the confirmation is only based 
on what the woman told to the physician. The physician has very limited possibilities how to really 
medically confirm transient heavier menstrual bleeding and therefore, medical confirmation in this case 
in fact does not increase credibility of patients’ reports.  
The Signal PRAC Rapporteur also highlighted 186 cases in EV with a positive rechallenge. As these 
cases could play an important role, their detailed review would be very useful.  
The Signal PRAC Rapporteur highlighted a poor quality of the MAH´s assessment, e.g. no discussion 
about backlog cases or underreporting, wrong causality assessment, not including serious non-
confirmed cases. The MAH should provide updated assessment including serious non-confirmed cases 
and discussion about the backlog cases. Based on this more detailed assessment possible PI update 
should also be discussed. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment 
The MS comment is appreciated, and we endorse the reflections around the challenges concerning this 
specific reaction when it comes to spontaneous reporting. We agree that the need for HCP reports are 
less relevant for heavy menstrual bleeding-reports, and that we should not wait for this. 
The MS proposes an RSI, with more data (eg additional data about cases from CTs and EV cases with 
positive rechallenge and a MAH assessment of non-confirmed serious cases which was not made). We 
are of the opinion that currently there is enough data to conclude on an update of section 4.8 and 
therefore does not endorse a request for an RSI. 
3.4.  Updated rapporteur's proposed recommendation  
Based  on  currently  available  evidence  the  PRAC  Rapporteur  considers  that  the  SmPC/PIL  should  be 
updated with information regarding heavy menstrual bleeding. The MAH is asked to propose a frequency 
category. 
The wording in of the proposed update to section 4.8 of the SmPC has been amended in accordance with 
the MS comments. 
Text for SmPC 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 50/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.8: Heavy menstrual bleeding. 
Text for PIL 
Section 4 (possible side effects): Heavy menstrual bleeding 
3.5.  Adopted PRAC recommendation 
Having considered the data submitted by the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH), the PRAC concluded 
that the current evidence is insufficient to warrant an update to the product information at present.  
The  PRAC  has  agreed  that  the  MAH  of  COVID-19  mRNA  vaccine  (nucleoside-modified)  Comirnaty 
(BioNTech  Manufacturing  GmbH)  should  provide  an  updated  cumulative  review  of  heavy  menstrual 
bleeding  post-vaccination  by  24/08/2022.  The  MAH  should  provide  responses  to  the  following  list  of 
questions:  
List of Questions: 
1.  The  MAH  should  discuss  the  possibility  of  further  investigating  the  issue  of  heavy  menstrual 
bleeding in a structured and prospective way in ongoing or subsequent clinical studies. The MAH 
should outline which possibilities have been explored. 
2.  The MAH should include in the updated review the following information on clinical trials: 
a.  The exposure (patients’ years) of female study participants of childbearing age in clinical 
trials.  
b.  A detailed presentation (complete narrative and relevant case report form information) 
of cases of heavy menstrual bleeding in clinical trials. 
3.  The MAH should provide an updated case review, as per the below: 
a.  All serious cases of heavy menstrual bleeding. 
b.  All  case  reports  of  re-challenge  of  heavy  menstrual  bleedings  with  subsequent 
vaccination. 
c.  The MAH should include in the case review also the cases in which there was concomitant 
use of other medicinal products (including concomitant use of contraceptives), or lack of 
information  on  medical  history.  Should  confounders  make  a  case  ‘’not  assessable’’’,  a 
clear explanation should be provided.  
d.  An assessment of the case reports according to UMC causality assessment criteria  
e.  The  MAH  should  justify  the  causality  assessment,  if  “unlikely”  or  “non  assessable 
/unclassifiable” is used.  
4.  In  addition  to  the  above-mentioned  review  which  should  include  all  case  narratives,  the  MAH 
should provide a table as specified below. The table should include all serious and/or positive 
rechallenge cases and information including the categories shown in the separate columns. The 
MAH  can  suggest  additional  columns,  if  deemed  useful.  Data  from  this  table  should  be  easily 
extractable for assessment.   
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 51/87 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH should prioritize all ICSRs relating to this signal when handling the backlog of cases and report 
on the backlog at time of DLP. 
The MAH should discuss the need for any potential amendment to the product information and/or the 
risk management plan and make accordingly a proposal for changes to the relevant sections within this 
discussion.  
The PRAC will assess this updated review within a 60 days’ timetable.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 52/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  2nd assessment round 
4.1.  Assessment of additional data  
4.1.1.  Supplementary information from Trogstad et al  
During the assessment of the MAH’s response, the Norwegian Medicines Agency has received further 
additional data from Trogstad et.al. with supplementary analysis from the study “Trogstad, L. 
Increased Occurrence of Menstrual Disturbances in 18- to 30-Year-Old Women after COVID-19 
Vaccination”.  
The paper is available as a preprint at: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4324853 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
Trogstad et al. have performed additional analyses that were made available to the PRAC Rapporteur 
during the assessment of the response.  
In addition to the findings already discussed in 3.1.1 and 3.2.3, an analysis stratified by reported 
previous menstrual regularity has been performed (Table 6 above). For women who reported that their 
cycles were always or usually regular*, the relative risk of experiencing heavy menstrual bleeding 
following COVID-19 vaccination was 2.00 (CI: 1.54-2.60) after dose 1 and 1.64 (1.33-2.01) after dose 
2. This is consistent with the relative risk rates reported for all women, which were 1.90 and 1.84, 
respectively. These results demonstrate that the increased relative risk of HMB following vaccination is 
not driven by reported events in women who usually have irregular menstruation.  
The number of women who report using a menstruation tracking ‘app’ was approximately 52 %. As 
discussed previously, this aid the responders in completing the questionnaires, thereby reducing recall 
bias.  
Trogstad et al. have provided additional information on prevalence of menstrual irregularities stratified 
by vaccine type, which are consistent with the overall results discussed previously. Further, no 
differences are seen in the subgroup analysis based on length of vaccination interval (< 50 days, ≥ 50 
days).  
* In the questionnaire, participants were asked how regular their cycles were, and the reported numbers were: 
always regular (20.4 %), usually regular (53.3 %), usually irregular (13.0 %) and always irregular (6.3 %). 
Answers were missing for 7.0 %. 
4.1.2.  Assessment of MAH response to RfSI 
Question 1 
The MAH should discuss the possibility of further investigating the issue of heavy menstrual bleeding in 
a structured and prospective way in ongoing or subsequent clinical studies. The MAH should outline 
which possibilities have been explored. 
MAH response to Question 1 
Clinical Studies 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 53/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pfizer/BioNTech understand the reasoning behind this request, and it has been considered. To 
implement a clinical trial to investigate this issue would be challenging and the study design required 
would not be feasible (due to a number of factors including challenges in finding a large enough study 
population of females of childbearing age who have not received their primary series, the difficulty 
accurately evaluating HMB [eg, quantification of menses, quantification of what is a normal menses for 
the individual participant], follow up time that would be needed, determination of whether 
investigations would be required and which ones).  
However, Pfizer/BioNTech propose that additional information could be collected from clinical trial 
participants reporting AEs of HMB. This could be achieved using an additional form within the CRF that 
could be completed by the site, and would collect required information including, previous menstrual 
history, use of hormonal contraception, etc. This would be implemented for any study within the C459 
clinical development program including females of childbearing age with enrolment beginning in Q4 
2022, to allow for time to incorporate this addition. 
Non-Interventional Studies 
Pfizer conducted a preliminary feasibility assessment to evaluate data sources suitable to conduct a 
PASS. The goal of the PASS would be to evaluate any potential association between the Pfizer-
BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine and HMB in the EU and/or the US. As a part of this feasibility assessment, 
Pfizer conducted a preliminary review of data sources from the literature, held informational interviews 
with 3 academic researchers in the field, and evaluated 9 data sources (2 menstrual tracking software 
applications [‘apps’] with EU data; 1 menstrual tracking app with US only data; 4 US EMRs or claims 
data sources; and 2 US research cohorts). Key data elements assessed included region of data (EU or 
US prioritized), adequate capture of HMB, adequate capture of COVID 19 vaccination (including 
manufacturer), adequate capture of underlying medical conditions and other potential confounders that 
may impact menstrual cycle disorders, and a large sample size representative of the general 
population. 
There is no consensus on a formal clinical definition of HMB. In the UK, HMB is defined by the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence as excessive menstrual blood loss, interfering with a 
woman’s physical, emotional, social, and/or material quality of life, and which can occur alone or in 
combination with other symptoms. Given the subjective nature of this outcome, a low proportion of all 
cases are likely to be brought to medical attention. Thus, the sensitivity of healthcare claims and/or 
medical record data alone to identify cases of HMB is expected to be low and were not further 
considered as a singular source of information.  
Instead, menstrual tracking app data, completed by the patients themselves, may provide improved 
sensitivity to identify HMB across a large number of patients. Pfizer reviewed 3 menstrual tracking 
apps (2 with EU data; one with US only data) that collect self-reported information about menstrual 
flow volume and COVID 19 vaccination status in a subset of users. Menstrual bleeding volume is 
captured in the apps reviewed via 3 common categories: heavy, medium, and light. 
Strengths of menstrual tracking app data include prospective data collection, capture of a wide range 
of menstrual cycle- related variables (eg, period dates, menstrual flow volume, menstrual- related 
pain), and large sample sizes of users from (depending on the app) the EU, the US, and other regions. 
Limitations of menstrual tracking app data include missing information (eg, some users may not record 
menstrual flow volume consistently or may miss recording a period entirely), self-reported COVID 19 
vaccination resulting in potential missing information or incorrect dates, and a lack of detailed 
covariate and other medical history- related variables. Importantly, menstrual flow volume in the apps 
reviewed can only be collected via users self-reporting their menstrual flow volume categorically in the 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 54/87 
 
 
 
 
app. Thus, quantitative volumetric measurements of HMB cannot be obtained. Rather, a potential 
future study could assess number of days in which the user tracks a ‘heavy’ flow among a subset of 
users regularly recording this data. 
Linkage of menstrual tracking app data to an EMR data source may allow for improved ability to 
validate cases of HMB, identification of administratively-recorded COVID-19 vaccination information, 
the collection of comprehensive gynecologic history and potentially help characterise the clinical 
significance of HMB. 
However, a comprehensive data source assessment is required to determine the feasibility of such a 
linkage in the EU and/or the US. To this end, Pfizer proposes to conduct a formal feasibility assessment 
of available data sources to evaluate a potential association between the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 
vaccine and HMB using linked menstrual tracking app data and EMR records in the EU and/or the US. 
Pfizer proposes to provide a timeline for completion of this feasibility assessment within 2 months. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment  
Clinical studies  
The MAH has considered the possibility of investigating the issue in clinical trials. Some major 
limitations that would confine the usefulness and feasibility of such studies are listed. These are overall 
endorsed, and the conclusion that such studies are not feasible is accepted.  
It is agreed that examining HMB in non-vaccinated females of childbearing age in future clinical studies 
is unfeasible, as most have already been vaccinated with the primary series. Such studies could 
nevertheless detect newly arisen events and cases with positive rechallenge. This could be of value and 
add to the body of evidence, but prior vaccination status must be taken into account when interpreting 
data and could possibly confound the results, (rendering them less conclusive for the present signal 
evaluation). There is also a risk that women who experienced HMB during the primary series may be 
less willing to receive booster vaccination, potentially leading to selection bias towards those less 
sensitive to this ADR.  
Further, the MAH highlights difficulties in accurately evaluating HMB. This reflects important limitations 
of the possibility of identifying HMB in any clinical study using customary study designs, including the 
pivotal studies with Comirnaty. To detect all cases with a heavier period, quantification of menstrual 
flow before and after vaccination should be performed and assessed in the context of the reported 
regularity of the individual participant’s previous menstrual pattern. To examine the longevity of 
menstrual disorders and the extent of resolvement, a longer follow-up period would also be required.  
As the general consensus is that menstrual irregularities are common, women in clinical studies 
experiencing less protruded changes may attribute them to normal variation, with only cases with a 
more severe outcome reported spontaneously as an adverse event. In the absence of quantitative 
measurements and/or specifically targeted reporting, there is a risk that events of heavy menstrual 
bleeding are insufficiently detected, potentially leading to underestimation. However, addressing this 
issue in coming studies is still appreciated. Additional studies may provide data assisting in estimating 
the incidence of HMB following COVID-19-vaccination. Obtaining such estimates based on spontaneous 
reports and observational studies are confined, and the incidences reported in the pivotal studies may 
be underestimated.  
Regarding the additional form that is mentioned, we ask the MAH to consider including questions 
whether menstrual flow was increased following vaccination with the primary series. Additionally, 
baseline CRF data for WOCBP should include information on menstrual regularity and volume.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 55/87 
 
 
 
 
Non-interventional studies  
The MAH has conducted a preliminary assessment of whether conducting non-interventional studies is 
feasible. No final proposal is given as part of the response, but some options are outlined and 
discussed. It is acknowledged that assessment of whether information from different data sources and 
registries may be linked is comprehensive. The MAH proposes to provide further details of the 
assessment within 2 months.  
The options discussed focuses mainly on utilizing data collected through menstrual tracking 
applications (app) and electronic medical records (EMRs).   
As amply pointed out by the MAH, given the nature of HMB, a low proportion of all cases are likely to 
be brought to medical attention. That the MAH seeks to address the extent of HMB through means 
where data from a large number of patients can be assessed is appreciated.   
To accomplish this, the MAH has suggested to retrieve data from apps and has reviewed 3 different 
apps (2 from the EU and 1 from the US). There are no specific details on which apps have been 
investigated, which would have been expected and will be required in the final proposal. The discussion 
of strengths and limitations of menstrual tracking apps are endorsed. Data in apps are self-recorded 
and while the flow is only quantified in categories (reduced, normal, heavy), the apps aid the 
responders in answering, which helps reduce variability. The suggestion to analyse the number of days 
with ‘heavy’ flow is a reasonable approach. Additionally, the total number of days with recorded 
bleeding per cycle should also be analysed, as HMB may also include a longer cycle. A subgroup 
analysis of participants who have recorded their menstrual cycles consistently before and after 
vaccination could further strengthen the results.  
It is argued that linking app data with data from an EMR can validate cases of HMB and COVID-19 
vaccination status as well as provide information on medical history such as COVID-19 infection. While 
linking registries can provide a higher level of evidence, it is expected, as pointed out earlier, that a 
low number of HMB cases are expected to reach medical attention and therefore will not be registered 
in EMRs. Thus, filtering only cases that are recorded in an EMR is likely to exclude the majority of 
reports, counter-acting the purpose of utilizing such apps, which is to include a larger number of 
women. How the MAH plans to analyse the information retrieved is not specified and must include both 
app data and EMR data separately, in addition to an analysis of linked data. The MAH suggests 
including one EMR in the US in the studies. An explanation of why an EMR in the EU is not chosen for 
further feasibility assessment is not included, and the MAH is asked to reconsider including registries in 
the EU.   
Challenges regarding privacy and data protection (GDPR) exist and how this will be accounted for must 
be discussed by the MAH. Conducting such a study requires explicit patient consent, which may 
represent a source of recruitment bias, even if data are already collected prospectively.    
The approach the MAH suggests applying is overall in line with the study design of Trogstad et al, 
which shown an association between heavy menstrual bleeding and COVID-19 vaccination and was 
referred to in the first assessment round. As discussed in 3.1.3, participants in the Trogstad et al. 
study were already recruited as a part of an ongoing cohort and the authors study sought to mitigate 
limitations by applying a SCCS design and performing various stratified analysis. Trogstad et al. have 
performed additional analysis after the first assessment round of this signal evaluation, and this is 
included as supplementary information. Of notice, 52% of women in the study tracked their menses 
with an app (see section 4.1.1). Further, COVID-19 vaccination status was confirmed with data from 
the Norwegian Immunisation Registry (SYSYAK). Thus, the Trogstad study has already applied two 
means that the MAH highlights as useful to study HMB following vaccination.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 56/87 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
The MAH’s discussion and approach to how HMB following vaccination can be studied are overall 
endorsed. The MAH requests an additional two months to perform a feasibility assessment regarding 
non-interventional studies, which is accepted. Depending on PRAC’s decision on the rapporteur’s 
proposed recommendation, we suggest that the MAH consider including the following:  
1) Baseline CRF data for women of childbearing potential should include information on menstruation 
regularity and volume.  
2) Regarding, the design of non-interventional study utilizing apps and EMRs, the MAH is asked to 
include EMRs within the EU. This analysis should include both app data and EMRs data separately, as 
well as use of linked data.  
In all, MAH’s arguments in this section is overall in agreement with the position of the PRAC 
Rapporteur during the first round of assessment. As investigating HMB in clinical studies is unfeasible 
using a regular study design, emphasis should be made on data from spontaneous reports and well-
designed observational studies, which the rapporteur finds to be the currently most feasible options to 
investigate an association of HMB and COVID-19 vaccination.    
Question 2 
The MAH should include in the updated review the following information on clinical trials:  
a.  The exposure (patients' years) of female study participants of childbearing age in 
clinical trials.  
b.  A detailed presentation (complete narrative and relevant case report form information) 
of cases of heavy menstrual bleeding in clinical trials. 
MAH response to Question 2 a 
The MAH reviewed the 2 largest placebo-controlled studies including participants within this age group 
(C4591001 and C4591031 SSA). The exposure of female participants of childbearing age to 30 µg of 
BNT162b2 vs Placebo for each study is 1610 PY vs 1720 PY for C4591001 and 270 PY vs 210 PY 
respectively. The MAH also added two tables with incidence rates in this age population. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 57/87 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur’s Comment: 
The total number of female participants of childbearing age who received Comirnaty in the two trials 
were 5 057 participants. The PTY in the trials were 1880. 
Table 13 and 14 demonstrates a numerical imbalance and a higher incidence rate of heavy menstrual 
bleeding in subjects receiving study drug than placebo, however the number of events is small. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 58/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAH response to Question 2 b 
The following unblinded, placebo-controlled clinical trials including women of childbearing age were 
reviewed for reported AEs with the MedDRA preferred term Heavy menstrual bleeding: 
-C4591001 (A Phase 1/2/3 Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, Immunogenicity, and Efficacy of 
RNA Vaccine Candidates Against COVID-19 in Healthy Individuals). 
-C4591031 Sub-study A (A Phase 3 Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Observer-Blind Sub-study to 
Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, and Efficacy of a Booster Dose of BNT162b2). 
Within the blinded phase/follow up period of both studies, (defined as from first vaccine received to 
unblinding date), out of a total of 5057 participants exposed to BNT162b2 and 5326 exposed to 
placebo, 6 AEs of HMB were reported. Of these 6 AEs reported 1 event was considered serious, due to 
hospitalisation, (narrative included below) and 2 events were considered related to the study 
intervention by the investigator. After unblinding, it was confirmed that 4 events occurred in 
participants who had received BNT162b2 and 2 events occurred in those who had received placebo. 
The age range of women affected was 29-41 years, the earliest event start date was 7 days post 
vaccination and the latest was 115 days post vaccination (mean days post vaccination = 35.5), with an 
event duration of 6-143 days (mean duration = 39.6 days, 1 event end date was unknown). 
During the open label phase of both studies, further 6 AEs of HMB were reported (all within Study 
C4591001) of which 1 event was considered serious, due to hospitalisation, (narrative included below) 
and 1 event was considered related to the study intervention. Four of these events occurred after 
receiving the first booster vaccination of BNT162b2 30 µg. 
Two cases were reported to be SAEs and narratives were available: 
Case 1 (blinded phase): An adult female participant with a pertinent past medical history of caesarean 
section (3 events) and menorrhagia which started approx. 9 months and a half before first dose of 
Comirnaty, and lasted for 18 months, for which she received tranexamic acid (Lysteda). She was 
vaccinated with dose 1, and dose 2 19 days later, both confirmed as active BNT162b2 30µg. Booster 
dose was given approx. 6 months and a half after dose 1. Approx. 4 months and a half after dose 1, 
the participant experienced worsening of menorrhagia which required a visit to her physician’s office 
and an emergency room visit that resulted in hospitalisation for 1 day. The clinical course was as 
follows: Worsening of menorrhagia approx. 4 months and a half after dose 1 for which the participant 
was admitted to hospital and underwent a hysterectomy approx. 7 months and a half after dose 1 and 
was discharged the following day. No relevant tests were reported. The investigator considered there 
was not a reasonable possibility that the event worsening of menorrhagia was related to the study 
intervention. 
Case 2 (open label phase): An adult female participant with no pertinent past medical history. 
Vaccination 1: placebo, vaccination 2: 20 days after dose 1(placebo), vaccination 3: approx. 5 months 
and a half after dose 1 (active drug), vaccination 4: approx. 8 months and a half after dose 1 (active 
drug). The patient contacted her clinic to report that that she had started having menorrhagia 4 
months after dose 4 and her obstetrics and gynaecology physician could not locate the cause of the 
bleeding. She was hospitalised 6 months after dose 4, for one day for the menorrhagia and started oral 
doxycycline at 100 mg twice a day during hospitalisation (ongoing), (as doxycycline is not a standard 
treatment for menorrhagia the reason for the prescription is not confirmed). The participant reported 
that due to the menorrhagia she had a laparoscopic hysterectomy 2 weeks after hospitalisation. She 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 59/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was prescribed hydrocodone/acetaminophen 5/325mg orally as needed for post-surgical pain. The 
investigator considered there was not a possibility that the event “menorrhagia” was related to study 
intervention. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s Comment: 
8 events of HMB occurred following active drug, and 4 following placebo. Of these, 3 events were 
considered related by the study investigator. 
The MAH has not provided narratives of all cases of heavy menstrual bleeding. From a total of 8 cases 
of HMB following active drug, only 2 had case narratives (those considered SAEs). 
The MAH provided a line listing of all 12 HMB cases, however it is not possible to determine whether 
vaccine or placebo was given for some patients 
The MAH summarised their findings in the response (in text) so it is possible to detect how many were 
following placebo vs active drug, but the MAH is requested not to submit data that are impossible to 
interpret. 
2.3. Question 3 
The MAH should provide an updated case review, as per the below: 
a. All serious cases of heavy menstrual bleeding. 
b. All case reports of re-challenge of heavy menstrual bleedings with subsequent 
vaccination. 
c. The MAH should include in the case review also the cases in which there was 
concomitant use of other medicinal products (including concomitant use of 
contraceptives), or lack of information on medical history. Should confounders make a 
case "not assessable"', a clear explanation should be provided. 
d. An assessment of the case reports according to UMC causality assessment criteria 
e. The MAH should justify the causality assessment, if "unlikely" or "non 
assessable/unclassifiable" is used. 
MAH response to Question 3a 
A total of 7824 serious cases containing the PT Heavy menstrual bleeding were identified in the search. 
Of the 7824 cases, 7788 (99.5%) cases were spontaneous, 24 (0.3%) cases were solicited, and 12 
(0.2%) cases were from clinical studies. Of the serious cases, 655 cases were medically confirmed. 
Age ranged from 10 years to 84 years. Mean and median age were 35 years (n = 6864). 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 60/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The cases were analysed to identify confounders or potential alternative causes of HMB such as 
anxiety, depression, blood coagulopathies, anaemias, malignancies, hypothalamic or pituitary 
disorders, endocrine gland disorders, gynaecological disorders, tobacco use, COVID-19 infection, 
autoimmune, and other diseases for which there is medical literature describing their potential impact 
on menstruation and bleeding risks. This review yielded 2446 cases noted as confounded. 
Another analysis was performed to identify those containing concomitant or co-suspect medications 
indicating a potential baseline of, or risk factors for, HMB such as antidepressant use and antianxiety 
medications, iron and thyroid supplements, antidiabetics and insulins, tumour necrosis factor 
inhibitors, tranexamic acid, etc. since these treat diseases linked to menstrual abnormalities and blood 
coagulopathies. Also identified were cases with concomitant hormone use and gonadal steroids (other 
than contraceptives) and other medications that might be associated with menstrual abnormalities and 
bleeding as an ADR such as selective estrogen/progesterone receptor modulators, aromatase 
inhibitors, and anticoagulants. This review yielded 801 cases noted as confounded. 
In total, there were 2659 serious cases in which diseases and/or other medications provide plausible 
explanations for HMB, rendering these cases as “unlikely” to be caused by the vaccine, using the 
WHO-UMC causality assessment categories as requested. 
Of the remaining 5156 cases, the MAH categorized 3038 as “unclassifiable/unclassified”. The 
explanation for this categorization is that key case information was insufficient for a proper causal 
assessment; key information being clinical outcome, dose number, and time to onset (either not 
provided or outside of a plausible 0-30 days latency window from time of vaccination) 
The MAH then focused on the cases in which HMB was a serious event. HMB occurred after dose 1 for 
1141 events, after dose 2 for 645 events, after dose 3 for 190 events. There were no HMB events 
reported after dose 4. 
Outcomes were resolved/resolving for 750 cases, not resolved for 1147; resolved with sequelae for 54 
cases; and unknown for 38 cases. 
The most frequently reported latency for HMB events was day 1 (for 236), day 0 (for 211) and day 3 
for 117). 
The MAH divided their review into co-reported events or not. For those with a co-reported event (151 
cases), the most frequent PTs were listed below 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 61/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH states that in 81 cases the co-reported events suggested a potential alternative etiology: 
spontaneous abortion, postmenopausal haemorrhage, pulmonary embolism, thrombocytopenias and 
thrombosis/phlebitis disorders. 
The remaining 1440 cases were searched for reports of hospitalisation and 21 cases were returned. Of 
the 21 cases, 11 cases provided little clinical detail, but 10 cases reported low haemoglobin, 
haematocrit and/or anaemia, 8 of which reported that treatment was required. 9 of the 21 cases were 
medically confirmed. 
In the response, the MAH described ten cases of hospitalisation: 
Case No and narrative 
MAH’s 
PRAC Rapp Comment 
Case 1: An adult experienced a miscarriage. On 
a medical appointment less than one month later 
the miscarriage was resolved, something was 
left to expel at next menstruation 3-4 weeks 
later. She was vaccinated with her Dose 1 of 
BNT162b2 more than one month after the 
miscarriage. 5 days later, the patient 
experienced vaginal bleeding that she thought 
was menstruation; however, the next day she 
was hospitalised due to clots, intense bleeding 
and "the rupture of a vessel causing anaemia" 
Uterine aspiration was performed and an 
intrauterine catheter was placed. She was 
treated with tranexamic acid, paracetamol, 
lactase, ketorolac, tramadol, oxytocin, cefazolin 
during her 1 day of hospitalisation. Her 
haemoglobin was 9 g/dL upon discharge. She 
was recovering with treatment including iron, 
ethinylestradiol and gestodene 
Case 2: Ten days after the Dose 2 of BNT162b2, 
an adult patient presented to the hospital with 
heavy vaginal bleeding for the preceding 5 days. 
The patient had a history of a regular cycle with 
very mild menorrhagia on Day 1 but otherwise 
assessment 
Unlikely 
causality 
based on 
recent 
miscarriage 
history 
The criteria that may render 
the classification ‘Unlikely’ are 
firstly the time relationship is 
improbable (with the 
knowledge at the time), and/or 
another explanation is more 
likely. The PRAC Rapporteur 
disagrees with the causality 
classification. 
Possible. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 62/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
no major history of heavy bleeding. The patient 
was hospitalised for heavy vaginal bleeding with 
clots and flooding with a haemoglobin of 6.3 
g/dL on arrival. She was treated with 
Tranexamic acid IV 1 g and Provera 10 mg daily. 
The patient was transfused 1 unit of red cells. 
She was discharged after 2 days with a stable 
haemoglobin of 9.6 g/dL and her bleeding had 
greatly lessened. A hysteroscopy was performed 
approximately 1 month later which showed a 
normal cavity. Histology showed benign 
endometrium. A Mirena coil was inserted and 
HMB was recovering. 
Case 3: A girl was vaccinated with her Dose 2 of 
BNT162b2 and the next days experienced long 
menstruation, different from the menstruations 
since menarche on a monthly basis over the last 
2 years. She presented to the emergency room 
21 days later with asthenia, headache, and a 
haemoglobin of 6.2 g/dL which required urgent 
transfusion. She was recovering after treatment 
with tranexamic acid, folic acid, Vitamin B12, 
and iron. 
Case 4: An adult was vaccinated with her Dose 1 
of BNT162b2 and experienced “a lot of blood 
loss” during the next menstruation, felt very 
tired and unwell. Dates were unspecified. 
Eighteen days after Dose 2, she was hospitalised 
for malaise, menstrual flow excessive, syncope, 
a serious case of anaemia by blood test, spots 
before eyes, exercise tolerance decreased and 
fatigue. She was treated with iron and 
recovering. 
Case 5: An adult experienced severe 
menstruation like bleeding, 16 days after the 
Dose 2 of BNT162b2 and haemoglobin 
“decreased a little” resulting in hospitalisation. 
The patient underwent lab tests and procedures 
which included lower abdomen scan: results not 
specified, blood test multiple: results not 
specified, haemoglobin: has decreased a little, 
smear test: negative. The patient was treated 
with IUCD and was recovering 
Case 6: Six days after the Dose 1 of BNT162b2, 
an adult patient experienced pyrexia and 
menorrhagia which required hospitalisation. Lab 
tests included haemoglobin 7.4 g/dL, iron 12 
µg/dL, CRP 5.6 mg/dL. The patient recovered 
The menstruation had been 
stable for the last 2 years, and 
it is not agreed that the 
causality is “unlikely”. 
Unlikely. 
Immature 
hormonal 
cascade 
controlling 
menstruation 
during 
adolescence. 
Unlikely. 
Immature 
hormonal 
cascade 
controlling 
menstruation 
during 
adolescence. 
The patient reported events 
following both doses, and is a 
case of positive rechallenge. 
The dismissal of the case is 
disagreed upon. The 
information in the case does 
not fulfil the criteria for 
classification of “unlikely”. 
Unassessable 
as case lacked 
dates and 
history. Details 
do not rule out 
perimenopause 
as alternate 
causality. 
The case includes information 
on TTO (16 days), and it is not 
clear why the exact date of the 
event is necessary for the MAH 
to be able to assess the case.”. 
The guidance document from 
WHO-UMC (Annex III) states 
that “when the information in a 
report is incomplete or 
contradictory and cannot be 
complemented or verified, the 
verdict is ‘Unclassifiable’ and 
the MAH’s conclusion is not 
aligned with this. It is not 
agreed that the case is 
“unassessable”. 
Unassessable 
as case lacked 
dates and 
history. Details 
do not rule out 
perimenopause 
as alternate 
causality. 
The case includes information 
on TTO (six days), and it is not 
clear why the exact calendar 
date of the event is necessary 
for the MAH to be able to 
assess the case. It is not 
agreed that the case is 
“unassessable”. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 63/87 
 
 
 
 
 
The patient had not had her 
period for 1 year, hence she is 
not in perimenopause, but in 
menopause. This is therefore a 
case of postmenopausal 
bleeding and should not be 
dismissed. 
The reporter is aware of the 
patient’s age (and hormonal 
status) when submitting the 
report. The MAH’s classification 
of the case as unlikely due to 
perimenopause is not 
supported. Also, the case 
mentions that she has not had 
similar heavy bleedings 
previously. It is not agreed that 
the correct causality 
assessment category is 
“unlikely”. 
The reporter is aware of the 
patient’s age (and hormonal 
status) when submitting the 
report. The MAHs classification 
of the case as unlikely due to 
immature hormonal cascade 
seems to be a default approach 
based on the patient’s age and 
is therefore not supported.  
Unlikely. 
Hormonal 
imbalances 
during 
perimenopause 
may result in 
heavy and 
irregular 
bleeding 
Unlikely. 
Hormonal 
imbalances 
during 
perimenopause 
may result in 
heavy and 
irregular 
bleeding. 
Unlikely. 
Immature 
hormonal 
cascade 
controlling 
menstruation 
during 
adolescence. 
Possible. 
Case 7: An adult had not had her period for 1 
year. She was vaccinated with her Dose 2 of 
BNT162b2 and on that day experienced HMB for 
9 days, dizziness, and falling haemoglobin, 
measured at 9.2 g/dL. She was hospitalised and 
the outcome was unknown. 
Case 8 Two days after her Dose 1 of BNT162b2, 
an adult patient experienced HMB from the 
uterus needing blood transfusion of 2 units. She 
did not have similar HMBs previously. Primary 
suspected cause was anovulatory bleeding. The 
patient underwent lab tests and procedures 
which included Haemoglobin: 6.7 g/dL (12 days 
post vaccination) and 8.9 g/dL (13 days post 
vaccination). She was treated with tranexamic 
acid, norethisterone and given iron 
supplementation and HMB was recovering. 
Case 9: An adult patient had her first period 13 
days after her first BNT162b2 vaccination. The 
bleeding did not subside, and she was admitted 
to hospital for immediate help 2 weeks after the 
first day of her period with severe bleeding 
anaemia. The patient had haemoglobin of 4.0 
g/dL and received 4 blood transfusions and 3 
bags of fresh frozen plasma. Ultrasound scan 
showed blood in the uterus with thick and even 
mucous membrane. She was examined for 
coagulation disorders with normal findings and 
had recovered. 
Case 10: An adult female received Dose 3 on 
Day 3 of period. The Dose 1 and Dose 2 of 
BNT162b2 vaccine were received on unknown 
dates. Medical history, and concomitant 
medications were not reported. She experienced 
fatigue, HMB, asthenia, dizziness, and muscular 
weakness starting on the day of vaccination and 
the next day. She experienced syncope, 
vomiting, tinnitus and headache on an unknown 
date. She was admitted to the hospital on 1 
week after dose 3, haemoglobin was “6 points,” 
she received blood transfusion and another 
unknown medication.3 days later the patient 
didn't improve and was transferred to another 
hospital. At the time of the report, the outcomes 
of the events were not resolved. No other 
information was present in this case. 
Of the last 1419 cases in which hospitalisation was not reported, 1295 cases provided little 
clinical detail, but 24 cases reported low haemoglobin, haematocrit and/or anaemia, 12 of which 
reported that treatment was required. The clinical outcome for HMB event in the 24 cases was 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 64/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resolved/resolving for 5 cases, resolved with sequelae for 2 cases and not resolved for 17 cases. 
Causality was assessed and these cases were included in Appendix 2. A line listing of these 24 cases 
were submitted on 2 September 2022 after a request for further information. 
82 of these 1419 cases were medically confirmed. 
Concomitant use of contraceptives was reported in 92 cases; 22 of these 92 cases reported indication 
for contraceptive as “contraception”/other indication (e.g., pain), or unknown and reported that HMB 
after the vaccination was not normal as compared to their usual menstruation flow (normally they had 
no or light periods while on contraception, etc.).  
The rest of the cases reporting HMB as an SAE (284 of 1805), reported HMB as the only event (no co-
reported events). Nine of the cases reported hospitalisation; but none of them reported low 
haemoglobin, low haematocrit, and/or anaemia. The causality assessment for these 9 cases is provided 
in Appendix 2. None of the last 275 cases that did not result in hospitalisation reported low 
haemoglobin, haematocrit, and/or anaemia. Twenty-one of the 284 cases were medically confirmed. 
Out of 284 cases, 23 reported concomitant use of contraceptive; 12 of these 23 cases reported 
contraception as the indication (vs. treatment for menstrual irregularities) and that HMB after 
vaccination was not normal compared to their menstrual history (either they had no periods while on 
contraception, their periods were light, etc.) 
PRAC Rapporteur’s Comment: 
Methodology and causality assessments: 
The MAH has selected 10 cases from a total of 7824 serious cases containing the PT HMB. This 
selection is considered extremely small, and the MAH’s methodology is questioned, as it was in the first 
round of assessment of the response. 
3038 cases were categorized as “unclassifiable/unclassified” due to key case information being 
insufficient. The cases fulfil at least the minimum requirements for reporting and are all valid ICSRs 
There is no established definition of “key case information” in the evaluation of spontaneous reports, 
and this seem to be based on subjective judgement. 
“The use of the WHO-UMC system for standardised case causality assessment” states “when the 
information in a report is incomplete or contradictory and cannot be complemented or verified, the 
verdict is ‘Unclassifiable’” The MAH’s causality assessment is not aligned with the UMC guidance. 
The PRAC rapporteur has looked into a random selection of these cases, please see examples below, 
and according to our judgement they do contain key information: information on the patient, 
information on the event, information on the suspect drug. It is not agreed that these are 
“unclassifiable/unclassified” per the WHO-UMC causality criteria. It is not agreed that “outcome” and 
“dose number” is key information, and these cases should not per default be dismissed 
2659 serious cases were categorised as “unlikely” by the MAH due to concomitant disease and/or 
other medication that in their opinion provide plausible explanations for HMB. In the WHO-UMC-
document mentioned above (appendix III), the following is stated: The criteria that may render the 
connection ‘Unlikely’ are firstly the time relationship is improbable (with the knowledge at the time), 
and/or another explanation is more likely The MAH’s utilisation of “unlikely” on 1/3 of all reported 
cases seems overly conservative, and the MAH has not justified that the alternative explanations are 
more likely than the vaccine. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 65/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2446 cases were noted as confounded. A case with a co-morbidity which might affect menstruation 
is not per default confounded. Each individual case has to be assessed in order to establish whether 
the co-morbidity has been stable for a long period of time and whether it is the most likely causative 
factor or rather a possible contributing factor. 
801 cases were dismissed because the patient had been treated with medications indicating a 
potential baseline of, or risk factors for, HMB. This methodology is not supported. Each individual case 
has to be assessed in order to establish whether the co-medication has been ongoing for a long period 
of time, i.e. is considered stable and not a likely causative factor. 
Hospitalisations – case overview 
It is not clear why the MAH has removed 1419 from a total of 1440 (98,5%) serious reports, 
because the patient was not hospitalised. This criterion was not mentioned in the list of questions, and 
the dismissal of these cases is not accepted. Heavy menstrual bleeding rarely warrants hospital 
admission, and not hospitalised patients should not per default have been excluded. 
Hospitalisations – review of presented cases  
The MAH presented 10 cases out of 21 cases of hospitalisation. We find that the MAH’s assessment of 
these cases has applied a very stringent/conservative approach. For instance, case 3 where a girl 
experienced heavy menstrual bleeding and went to the emergency room, was classified as “unlikely” 
by the MAH due to “immature hormonal cascade”. The report states however that the girl’s 
menstruation had been stable for the past two years. The same classification as “unlikely” with the 
justification of an “immature hormonal cascade” was applied to case 4 regarding a girl who was 
admitted to hospital after experiencing a “serious case of anaemia”. The girl experienced heavy 
menstrual bleeding following both dose 1 and dose 2 and is therefore a case of positive rechallenge, 
and it is not agreed that the case should be assessed as “unlikely”. This case was not detected as a 
positive rechallenge case by the MAH, as it is not marked as a potential positive rechallenge case 
in appendix 2. The PRAC Rapporteur therefore questions whether the MAH has correctly 
evaluated/detected cases with positive rechallenge information. Please see comment on question 3c. 
Hospitalisations – review of cases categorised by the MAH as having little clinical detail: 
The ID numbers of the 11 cases with hospitalised patients which the MAH stated had little clinical detail 
and therefore dismissed, was submitted to the PRAC rapporteur on 2 September 2022 per, as they 
were not possible to retrieve in the original response.  
A short summary of the cases is presented below. Not all information available is provided, but 
relevant information is included, in order to secondary assess whether they have little clinical detail (as 
stated by the MAH) or not. 
Case 1: An adult received second dose of Comirnaty. Medical history included lactation decreased. 
Patient had last menstrual period 3 months after second dose of Comirnaty. First dose received 3 
months prior to second dose. She experienced vomiting, fever, neck pain, shaking inside, heavy 
menstrual bleeding, rash, headache, chest pain starting on the same day when she received the 
second dose of Comirnaty. She had several visits to Accident & Emergency (A&E) with pain, referred to 
physician for neck and shoulder pain after vaccine. Dates are somewhat conflicting as regards last 
menstrual period and vaccination. 
Case 2: An adult taking a birth control pill which is a continuous pill, and had almost no menstruation. 
Vaccinated with dose no. 2. TTO 7 days. The bleeding 7 days later was so heavy she had to empty the 
menstrual cup every half hour of a whole night. Strong heart palpitations from climbing stairs. She was 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 66/87 
 
 
 
 
admitted to hospital and prescribed tranexamic acid500mg for blood clotting. Blood test (plate count) 
10 days after dose 2 was 232. 
Case 3: Age 30-39 received Comirnaty as dose 2, reported of anaemia and heavy menstrual bleeding 5 
days later. A very detailed narrative is included in the report. The patient had been bleeding for a 
month since her second vaccine; had been to accident and emergency (A&E); booked an ultrasound, 
blood tests and nothing can be found. She experienced heavy bleeding outside periods. The patient 
had no history of heavy periods, or of conditions which can cause heavy periods, e.g., fibroids, 
polycystic ovaries, endometriosis. The patient had no history of any other period related problems e.g., 
irregular periods. The patient had no history of bleeding disorders or low blood platelets. The patient 
had no history of long-term medical conditions or take any regular medication. The patient had no 
similar reaction to any other vaccine or medicine. She has neither been diagnosed with COVID-19 nor 
had a suspected COVID-19 infection. 
Case 4: An adult received, second dose of Comirnaty 2 months after the first dose. It was reported 
that the bleeding occurred after the 1st and 2nd vaccine. The patient experienced heavy menstrual 
bleeding with blood clots and reported that period started 5 days early, starting 7 days after second 
dose of Comirnaty and a low blood count of 32. The period went on for 15 days, and patient sought 
help on day 8. 2 days later admitted with a low blood count. Treated with noretisterone and bleeding 
stopped. Information on previous cycles: usually her cycles are regular and lasts only 5 days: She did 
not have any other unexpected bleeding at the same time, e.g., nose bleeds. Not any history of 
conditions which can cause heavy periods e.g., fibroids, polycystic ovaries, endometriosis etc. Negative 
test for covid-19. 
This case is a positive rechallenge case, but not included in the MAHs list of positive rechallenge 
cases. Case 5: An adult vaccinated with Comirnaty. Medical history includes hypercholesterolaemia. 
Also reported tenderness in arms and chest. Reported very heavy bleeding causing hospitalisation from 
the month of vaccination with Comirnaty. Menstruation had not been present since 6 months 
(unknown whether before or after vaccination). ECG and blood tests taken, results unknown. 
Case 6: An adult vaccinated with Comirnaty as dose 2. TTO 20 days. She reports a severe headache, 
and she took sick leave from her work (in a hospital) as she was unable to safety deliver care. The 
report includes a detailed description of the events. The patient reports of her period starting 5 days 
early, and a substantially heavier flow. She had very heavy menstrual bleeding. Negative test for 
COVID-19. 
Case 7: An adult received Comirnaty as dose 1, comorbidities were asthma and allergy. She 
experienced endometrial hyperplasia, heavy menstrual bleeding. Report states that events might 
coincide with menopause but did not have this prior to the vaccine. Report includes information on 
biopsy of uterine polyp, blood tests (low iron, increased reticulocytes and basolycytes). Patient also 
suffered from vaccination site erythema and paraesthesia (tingling in the whole body and the feeling of 
tingling in the eyes and jaws). She was examined in allergy clinic with unknown results. Neurological 
examination showed nothing abnormal. Height and weight are reported. 
Case 8: An adult received Comirnaty on 6 Sept 2021 as dose 1. Since the vaccine she has heart 
flutters, chest pain, shortness of breath around menstrual cycle. “Been fobbed off told it’s anxiety but 
bloods come back”. Somewhat difficult narrative to interpret. 
Case 9: An adult received Comirnaty as dose 1. The report states that heavy periods started in the 
following day of the vaccine. Blood flow much heavier than expected – only for the first day. Seizures 
two days after the vaccine, 2 small seizures (around one minute each), CT scan result were normal 
and blood exams only resulted in high white blood cells count. Patient has not tested positive for covid-
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 67/87 
 
 
 
 
19 since having the vaccine. The patient underwent lab tests and procedures which included covid-19 
virus test (negative result) 23 days before dose 1, CT scan normal on unknown date. 
Case 10: A girl received first dose Comirnaty. Date of last menstrual period was approx. 3 months 
after first dose. The patient reported that on an unknown date heart rate was abnormally quicker. 9 
days after vaccination the patient experienced heavy periods. The patient was admitted to accident 
and emergency due to the amount of blood lost due to period. The patient had intravenous drip. Covid-
19 virus test was negative. The patient underwent heart rate test, and the result was abnormally 
quicker. The patient underwent ultrasound scan, internal scan, blood tests and urine samples; results 
were unknown.  
Case 11: An adult received Comirnaty. Relevant medical history includes thalassemia beta, unknown if 
ongoing, and allergy to peanuts. The patient experienced heavy menstrual bleed requiring 
hospitalisation for two days and characterized as life threatening 8 days after receiving Comirnaty. The 
event was reported as “severe menorrhagia on a background of fibroids”. Haemoglobin 64. SARS-Cov-
2-test negative 6 months after receiving Comirnaty. Nasal swab 7 days later negative. Therapeutic 
measures were blood transfusion, tranexamid acids, intravenous iron. 
We disagree with the MAH in discarding all these cases with the justification that they contain little 
information. We consider that the cases contain enough information to provide valuable input for the 
assessment of the signal in question, and the bar for what is regarded as information needed in an 
ICSR is set unrealistically high. One of the cases is a positive rechallenge case and hence is particularly 
valuable, yet this case has been left out from the MAH’s review. 
LOW HAEMOGLOBIN 
The MAH stated that there were 24 cases reported low haemoglobin, haematocrit and/or anaemia, 12 
of which reported that treatment was required. The MAH did not provide IDs of these cases, and this 
was therefore requested and provided on 2 Sept. The 24 cases have been reviewed by the PRAC 
Rapporteur. There are several well described cases of prolonged bleeding. Some of them have Hb 
measured in the spectrum 8 – 13.  
Question 3b Response – Cases of positive rechallenge 
Methodology: Cases of potential rechallenge were identified by searching for cases with the PT heavy 
menstrual bleeding and more than 1 suspect dose of BNT162b2 coded within the case. This search did 
not automatically exclude cases based on the clinical course between doses (e.g., cases in which 
treatment for HMB was received between doses or cases in which the event continued between doses). 
It also did not exclude cases reporting rechallenge associated with more than 1 dose of COVID-19 
vaccine in an individual. There were 480 serious cases and 591 non-serious cases, 1071 in total. 
The potential rechallenge cases were analysed to identify patients with a medical and/or familial 
history of confounders – this yielded 281 cases noted as confounded. 
Another analysis identified those containing concomitant or co-suspect medications which may indicate 
that the patient had a risk of HMB such as antidepressant and antianxiety medication, iron and thyroid 
supplements, antidiabetics and insulins etc. This yielded 112 cases considered confounded by the MAH. 
315 cases were considered “unlikely” by the MAH. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 68/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
584 were considered “unclassifiable/unclassified” because key case information was missing, such 
as clinical outcome, dose number, and time to onset (either not provided or outside of a plausible 0-30 
days latency window from time of vaccination). 
The remaining 172 cases of potential rechallenge were assessed. 
43 of the cases described distinct episodes of HMB within a reasonable timeframe following more than 
1 dose without specified treatment provided for the event. 29 were unclassifiable, 4 were unlikely and 
10 were possibly causally related. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s Comment: 
The MAH did not provide information that made it possible to retrieve the positive rechallenge cases for 
a secondary assessment, despite it being specified in the original LoQ. The MAH was therefore 
requested to provide information that made this feasible. The MAH responded to this and added a 
column to one of the sheet tabs in Appendix 2 with the criterion ‘hospitalisation Yes/No/NA’. However, 
the case narratives remained in a different sheet tab and a summary of narratives of all positive 
rechallenge cases were therefore not provided by the MAH. 
The MAH’s methodology for identifying cases of positive rechallenge was to search for cases with more 
than one dose of BNT162b2 coded in the case. The MAH has apparently not searched for cases in 
which the positive rechallenge field in the ICSR has been populated with “yes”. In these cases, the 
coding of positive rechallenge may be based on information provided in the narrative, and two doses of 
the suspected drug is not always coded. Therefore, it is possible that several cases of positive 
rechallenge has not been taken into consideration in the MAH’s review, and the number of cases with 
positive rechallenge is higher than the number presented by the MAH.  
The PRAC Rapporteur has reviewed all of the 129 cases categorized as ‘not a rechallenge case’ by the 
MAH and agree that the majority of these do not contain information on reactions following both doses, 
or they are describing a reaction following dose 1 that persists and continues after dose 2. However, in 
nine of the dismissed cases there is information in the case narrative indicating a positive rechallenge, 
such as statements like “this happened following both doses”  
Overall, the MAH has deleted 899 from a total of 1071 potential positive rechallenge cases because 
they were considered “unlikely” or “unclassifiable”. The PRAC Rapporteur does not endorse the MAH’s 
methodology and their application of the causality criteria, as discussed elsewhere in the report (under 
question 3e) 
There are 43 cases of positive rechallenge included in the response, but due to the issues regarding 
the MAH’s dismissal of cases, the number of positive rechallenge cases is unknown.  
Question 3c - The MAH should include in the case review also the cases in which there was 
concomitant use of other medicinal products (including concomitant use of contraceptives), 
or lack of information on medical history. Should confounders make a case "not 
assessable"', a clear explanation should be provided 
MAH’s response: 
Cases in which there was concomitant use of other medicinal products (including concomitant use of 
contraceptives) that was relevant to the event HMB, or lack of information on medical history were 
included in the analysis and responses provided for questions 3a and 2b. The MAH states that the table 
requested in Question 4 and in Appendix 2 also includes this information. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 69/87 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: 
The specification of question 3 (the MAH should include cases in which there was concomitant use of 
other medicinal products etc) was given because the MAH in their first response eliminated the 
majority of the ICSRs from review: in total 99.94% of reports were dismissed and the Rapporteur 
disagreed with the approach and methodology. In the opinion of the Rapporteur, it was considered 
important to emphasize that the MAH should include these cases in their review.  
3 d) An assessment of the case reports according to UMC causality assessment criteria  
The MAH assessed the 7738 most clinically relevant cases (out of 8418 total cases) using the UMC 
causality criteria within responses provided for question 3a and 3b 
3 e) The MAH should justify the causality assessment, if "unlikely" or "non 
assessable/unclassifiable" is used. 
Justifications were provided for 4826 reports classified as “unclassifiable” by the MAH and 2898 reports 
classified as “unlikely” by the MAH. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment (for both question 3 d and e) 
From a total of 8418 reports 
- 14 were assessed as ‘possible’ 
- 4826 as ‘unclassifiable’ 
- 2898 as ‘unlikely’ 
14 cases are assessed as ‘possibly related’, which is remarkably low. This number is lower than the 
total number of positive rechallenge cases, in fact 2/3 of the positive rechallenge-cases have been 
classified as ‘unclassifiable’ and ‘unlikely’. When assessing an ICSR a positive rechallenge is usually 
considered to strengthen the suspicion of a causal relationship, thus it is highly unusual to classify such 
cases as unlikely or unclassifiable. 
The MAH’s justification for their causality assessment when applying ‘unlikely’ or ‘non 
assessable/unclassifiable’ is not endorsed, and a more detailed justification for this is included in the 
comment to Question 3a. Positive rechallenge cases have not been detected. The number 43 (cases of 
positive rechallenge provided by the MAH) is not reflecting the correct number, since several additional 
positive rechallenge cases have been identified by the PRAC Rapporteur. We have however not 
reviewed all 7000+ reports, as this was delegated to the MAH hence, we have a “known unknown” of 
positive rechallenge cases.  
Question 4 
In addition to the above-mentioned review which should include all case narratives, the 
MAH should provide a table as specified below. The table should include all serious and/or 
positive rechallenge cases and information including the categories shown in the separate 
columns. The MAH can suggest additional columns, if deemed useful. Data from this table 
should be easily extractable for assessment. The MAH should prioritize all ICSRs relating to 
this signal when handling the backlog of cases and report on the backlog at time of DLP. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 70/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH should discuss the need for any potential amendment to the product information 
and/or the risk management plan and make accordingly a proposal for changes to the 
relevant sections within this discussion. 
MAH’s response: 
The table in excel format (Appendix 2) is containing information for the 8418 requested serious and/or 
potential rechallenge cases. 
There were no backlog cases. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s Comment: 
The MAH did not provide a table as requested. The Excel-file did not include a column for positive 
rechallenge cases (this was therefore specifically requested in an RSI on 2 Sept.). In addition, the 
narratives were added in a separate sheet tab and not added to the main listing with ID-numbers 
included, making it impossible to filter out relevant case narratives. The MAH stated that 
“Unfortunately, there are limitations in the Excel table cells which prevent import of the entire 
narrative into the main table listing (in the initial tab in Appendix 1) and there is risk that the large 
volume of narrative information would be incomplete if added to the data in the main listing.” The 
secondary evaluation therefore required a lot of manual work. 
MAH’s summary and conclusion: 
In summary, no signal for HMB was detected in the large pivotal clinical trial which included women of 
menstruating age. Indeed, the number of reports of HMB in both the placebo and active vaccine 
groups, were relatively small when considering the size and length of the study and group differences 
were not evident. Of the 8418 cases of HMB from the safety database that were the focus of this 
request, the majority are not medically confirmed and unassessable/unclassifiable or unlikely causally 
related. While non-medically confirmed reports are taken into consideration, the known inaccuracies in 
estimations of menstrual blood flow and changes in flow cannot be disregarded, nor can the other 
limitations of passive reporting for AEs that are not rare. Neither the clinical trial data nor the 
spontaneously reported data support the EMA PRAC signal assessment report (03 Jun 2022) statement 
that “…we are under the impression that menstrual disorders are by far the most commonly reported 
ADRs from women.” Finally, the O/E ratios do not indicate that reported events are higher than 
expected based on background IRs. 
Vaccination is, by design, intended to stimulate the immune system and with that stimulation, 
inflammatory changes, most frequently assessed as systemic reactogenicity events are not 
unexpected. The potential mechanism by which vaccination with BNT162b2 may trigger HMB is 
speculative at this time as there is not an understood mechanism that has been elucidated. 
Overall, the available data does not support a conclusion that HMB is causally associated with 
BNT162b2 vaccine. Although no update to the product information or the RMP is planned, this topic will 
continue to be monitored using routine pharmacovigilance and it is the intention of the MAH to conduct 
a formal feasibility assessment for evaluation of heavy menstrual bleeding using linked menstrual 
tracking app data and EMR records in the EU and/or the US. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 71/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur’s Comment 
The MAH emphasizes that the number of reports in the large pivotal clinical trial was low. However, the 
MAH describes in their response to Q1 the difficulties in investigating HMB in a clinical trial setting 
(e.g., quantification of menses, quantification of what is a normal menses for the individual 
participant). Also, reporting in the trial was unsolicited, which further decreases the possibility for AE-
reports of HMB, unless patients were hospitalised. Therefore, it cannot be expected that HMB was 
detected sufficiently in the pivotal studies, and the low reported incidences does not exclude an 
association. Seen together, the data from the trials are not reassuring (imbalances towards vaccine 
arms, collection of adverse events not targeting menstrual symptoms/irregularities).  
It is the opinion of the PRAC Rapporteur that the limited knowledge regarding the pathophysiological 
pathway is considered to neither strengthen nor weaken the signal. In this regard the mechanism 
behind the adverse reaction myocarditis/pericarditis is not understood either but is accepted as an 
adverse reaction to vaccination with Comirnaty. 
The MAH states that there is no support from spontaneously reported data or clinical trial data for the 
PRAC Rapporteur statement that “…we are under impression that menstrual disorders are by far the 
most commonly reported ADRs from women”. This is disagreed upon. The following table from 
Vigilyze, searched 15 Sep 2022 shows the top reported PTs for Comirnaty globally, in women aged 18-
44. These data support our statement. As can be seen from the table, HMB is the 15th most frequently 
reported ADR, and menstrual disorder is the 17th most frequently reported ADR. The ADRs reported 
more frequently than HMB are all described in the SmPC, except for malaise and COVID-19. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 72/87 
 
 
 
 
Regarding causality assessments, it is remarkable that only 0,18% of cases have been assessed as 
“possible”, 37% assessed as “unlikely” and 62% have been assessed as “unclassifiable” by the MAH. 
The causality assessment provided does not align with the WHO-UMC-guidance document. 
The review performed by the MAH has major limitations that precludes an assessment. From a total of 
7824 serious cases the MAH discussed ten cases in their response. 
The MAH’s methodology regarding searching for positive rechallenge cases have identified 43, but 
several more have been identified after consulting the case narrative. We consider it likely that the 
total number of positive rechallenge cases exceeds 43, but the exact number is unknown.  
Importantly, the nature/characteristics of HMB (lacking a clear definition, subjective and reported from 
patients) must be taken into consideration when evaluating all available data and the level of support 
which can be anticipated from Real World Data. 
In conclusion, the available data from spontaneous reports and the imbalance in clinical trial data 
indicate that there is at least a reasonable possibility for an association between vaccination with 
BNT162b2 and HMB. This is further strengthened by the publication from Trogstad et al including the 
latest sub-analysis.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 73/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.  Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation 
In conclusion, the data submitted in the response has been assessed, and the PRAC Rapporteur 
remains at our conclusion from the first round of assessment: there is at least a reasonable possibility 
of a causal association between Comirnaty and heavy menstrual bleeding. 
4.3.  Comments from other PRAC members and MAH 
Comment from MS1: 
The proposed recommendation by the signal lead Member State to update the SmPC section 4.8 is not 
endorsed. 
The proposal to update the PI is mainly based on the study by Trogstad et al. including additional 
confidential analyses provided by NO, few events of heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) in clinical trials 
and spontaneously reported cases of HMB. 
In the second assessment round, Trogstad and colleagues provided additional analyses to support the 
findings reported in the published pre-print version. Following the new information, the MS1 still 
considers that the study is not sufficiently robust to support an update of the PI with HMB. Although 
52% of the women used a tracking app, recall bias may have been introduced by the remaining almost 
half of the study participants. In addition, the potential impact of media attention as well as the fact 
that the study has not yet been peer-reviewed also warrants cautious interpretation of the study 
findings.  
Regarding case reports, the MAH was requested to provide an updated case review of serious cases 
and positive re-challenge cases and evaluate the causality of these in the second assessment round.  
Overall, the MAH identified 14 cases with ‘possible’ causal association and 43 cases with positive re-
challenge among a total of >8000 case reports. In the assessment report a small subset of these cases 
were presented of which several contained confounders or lack of important information such as 
menstruation pattern before vaccination.  
It is agreed that the case review provided by the MAH seems non-transparent, and the concerns 
regarding the causality evaluation and unidentified re-challenge cases posed by the Rapporteur are 
acknowledged. However, taking into account the challenges in evaluating this common condition, 
including subjectivity and other factors affecting menstrual bleeding, it is considered that additional 
relevant information will likely not be obtained by requesting further information from the MAH at this 
point.  
In conclusion, a PI update is not supported. Continued follow-up in the PSUR of this topic is considered 
appropriate.  
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: 
We interpret the wording in the SmPC Guideline («...at least a reasonable possibility.»), that the lack 
of data to establish with certainty that there is a causal association should not support the conclusion 
to not update the PI.   
Further, we would again like to highlight that our proposal to update the PI is based on the totality of 
available data, not solely the study by Trogstad et.al. Limitations of this study has been discussed in 
the report, but we consider that the authors have sought to mitigate these limitations adequately to 
provide as high a level of evidence as practically attainable for observational studies in the post-
marketing setting. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 74/87 
 
 
 
 
The same principle applies for the statement that additional relevant information will likely not be 
obtained by requesting further information from the MAH at this point and therefore the issue should 
be followed up in the PSUR and PI should not be updated. We disagree with this reasoning. We believe 
that current available data are sufficient to conclude that there is at least a reasonable possibility of a 
causal association between Comirnaty and HMB. 
We consider that PSUR data will not provide additional evidence beyond what has been presented 
during this signal procedure. 
Comment from MS5 
We thank the Rapporteur about this preliminary assessment report for the second round and fully agree 
with the conclusion and proposals for recommendations. 
In addition, we fully agree with the Rapporteur about the misinterpretation of some data/criteria by the 
MAH. 
To support the Rapporteur, we would like to add further information as follows: 
In MS5, menstrual disorders following vaccination against Covid-19 are closely monitored and analysed 
since December 27, 2020 in the context of a national safety monitoring for all Covid-19 vaccines. As of 
April  2022,  as  described  in  table  1,  an  initial  analysis  regarding  menstrual  disorders  identified  3746 
cases of haemorrhages with Comirnaty (including 223 serious cases), of which 1457 cases of “Heavy 
mentrual bleeding” (including 73 serious cases) after vaccination with Comirnaty. Of these 1457 cases, 
88 cases (6,0%) showed a positive rechallenge. To note, 57% of menstrual disorders cases were 
not resolved at the time of this first analysis. This report regards available data from Decembre 2020 to 
April 
2022. 
Table  1:  Descriptions  of  menstrual  haemorrhages  cases  reported  cumulatively  after  vaccination  with 
Comirnaty (up to April 28, 2022) 
Non-serious cases 
Serious cases 
Total cases 
Haemorrhages 
3523 
223 
3746 
Intermenstrual 
haemorrhage 
1381 
Heavy menstrual 
bleeding 
Menometrorrhagia 
Polymenorrhoea 
Vaginal haemorrhage 
Postmenopausic 
haemorrhage 
Abnormal uterine 
bleeding 
Uterine haemorrhage 
1384 
388 
233 
21 
96 
13 
7 
82 
73 
37 
18 
1 
11 
1 
0 
1463 
1457 
425 
251 
22 
107 
14 
7 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 75/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the previous round in June 2022, in this context and after a qualitative and quantitative analysis 
of  these  cases,  we  supported  the  update  of  the  SmPC  and  PL  to  add  a  warning  regarding  this  risk 
(Cominary and Spikevax). 
In  parallel,  we  have  collaborated  for  several  months  with  various  patients’  associations  and  HCP 
representatives, including obstetrician-gynecologists specialists, to better quantify and characterise the 
events related to menstrual disorders following COVID-19 vaccination.  
From  these  reports,  as  summarised  in  table  2,  an  updated  analysis  regarding  cases  of  menstrual 
disorders (reported between 19 July 2022 and 31 August 2022) has revealed 1665 additional cases 
of haemorrhages including 837 cases (428 serious cases) of “heavy menstrual bleeding” with Comirnaty 
during this period. Of these 837 cases, 50 cases (5.9%) showed a positive rechallenge4. 
Table  2:  Descriptions  of  menstrual  haemorrhages  cases  reported  after  vaccination  with  Comirnaty 
(reported between July 19, 2022 to August 31, 2022) 
Non Serious cases 
Serious cases 
Total cases 
Haemorrhages 
Intermenstrual 
haemorrhage 
Heavy menstrual 
bleeding 
Menometrorrhagia 
Polymenorrhoea 
Vaginal haemorrhage 
Postmenopausic 
haemorrhage 
Abnormal uterine 
bleeding 
Uterine haemorrhage 
849 
164 
409 
107 
110 
13 
15 
3 
28 
816 
1665 
99 
263 
428 
133 
106 
5 
15 
1 
29 
837 
240 
216 
18 
30 
4 
57 
These data are still being analysed qualitatively and this is a preliminary analysis.  
Although  some  data  were  misinterpreted  by  the  MAH  (especially  the  assessment  of  causality  and 
detection of positive rechallenge), we strongly support the Rapporteur’s conclusion that there is at least 
a  reasonable  possibility  of  a  causal  association  between  Comirnaty  and  “heavy  menstrual  bleeding”, 
considering the following arguments:  
- 
the very high number of reports (>23 000) on heavy menstrual bleeding,  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 76/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
some of them requiring blood transfusion,  
hundreds of reported cases with positive rechallenge (e.g. more than 100 in MS5). 
two  studies  (Trogstad  and  Caspensen)  pointing  towards  an  association  with  heavy  menstrual 
bleeding. 
Therefore, the SmPC and PIL should be updated to reflect the current knowledge as proposed by the 
Rapporteur. 
Considering the uncertainties in the mechanism of action, the number of cases with both Spikevax and 
Comirnaty and heterologous vaccination patterns, such information should also be added in the SmPC 
and PL of Spikevax. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s Comment: 
We acknowledge the MS  supportive comment and thank for for the contribution by efforts at national 
level in MS5 providing a  helpful analysis of MS5 cases. The results presented from MS5 add further data 
that corroborate the conclusions of the PRAC Rapporteur.  
Comment from MS12: 
We currently do not see sufficient evidence to include heavy menstrual bleeding in the SmPC as a 
reaction after the administration of mRNA vaccines. The recording of menstrual characteristics in future 
studies with different vaccines is encouraged, as this is the only way to make valid statements. Then it 
can be decided whether heavy menstrual bleeding needs to be integrated into the SmPC and where. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s Comment: 
The PRAC Rapporteur is not of the opinion that the only way to make valid statements is by 
investigating the issue in future studies. While we agree that further studies should be encouraged to 
further characterize this issue, we disagree that further studies are necessary to reach a conclusion. 
This is supported by the SmPC guideline stating that section 4.8 should include adverse reactions 
“where a causal relationship between the medicinal product and the adverse event is at least a 
reasonable possibility, based for example, on their comparative incidence in clinical trials, or on 
findings from epidemiological studies and/or on an evaluation of causality from individual case 
reports”. 
Comment from MS10: 
The proposed recommendation by the signal lead Member State to update the SmPC section 4.8 to 
include “heavy menstrual bleeding” is not endorsed. 
In the second round, additional analyses have been presented by Trogstad et al, it should however be 
noted that the data is still not peer reviewed. Only 52% of the subjects reported any data in the app. 
As previously mentioned, it is challenging to evaluate a potential causal relationship between a vaccine 
and heavy menstrual bleeding, a condition that is very common and can be induced by different 
circumstances/events such as e.g., stress, caloric restriction, or heavy exercise. Furthermore, heavy 
menstrual bleeding is a subjective, not easily standardized condition. Thus, data from self-reporting or 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 77/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
even questionnaire data are difficult to interpret, especially, as in this case, there has been a lot of 
attention in the media.  As noted in the first round, Trogstad et al reported a generally high incidence 
of the various menstrual disturbances among menstruating women aged 18–30 years; 37.8% reported 
at least one change during their last period before vaccination, 39.4% reported at least one change 
after Dose 1, and 40.9% after Dose 2. A significantly increased risk specifically after the first dose is 
reported (RR1.90, CI 1.69-2.13). The authors of the study themselves conclude that the interpretation 
of the study results is limited by several putative confounders such as media attention, a view that can 
be endorsed. The results from this study only, is not considered sufficient to support an update of the 
PI. 
The additional evidence presented in the first and second round, consisting of data from clinical trials 
and cases from the MAH global database, does at this stage not provide sufficient support for at least a 
possible causal association. 
Taken together, the available data is not considered sufficient to conclude upon a reasonable causal 
relationship and SE therefore maintain the position from the first round to not include “heavy 
menstrual bleeding” in the PI. Nevertheless, the topic should be closely monitored in upcoming PSURs 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: 
The MS’s position is noted. With regards to the challenges in evaluating this condition, it should be 
noted that an analysis stratified by reported previous menstrual regularity has been performed and is 
presented in table 6 (page 63 of this AR). For women who reported that their cycles were always or 
usually regular, the relative risk of experiencing heavy menstrual bleeding is consistent with the 
relative risk rates reported for all women. These results demonstrate that the increased relative risk of 
HMB following vaccination is not driven by reported events in women who usually have irregular 
menstruation.  
With regards to the remaining issues raised by MS10, please see PRAC Rapp’s discussion of MS1 
comment in which many of the same issues have been raised.  
Comment from MS8: 
The rapporteur proposal to update section 4.8 of the SmPC is not endorsed.  
Overall, we agree that clinical trial setting is not adequate to sufficiently address HMB and that it 
cannot be expected that HMB was detected sufficiently in the pivotal studies. As a consequence, in 
principle a low reported incidence does not exclude an association. However, considering that the 
observed imbalance towards vaccine arm is low and that data collection was not targeted on menstrual 
symptoms/irregularities, data from clinical trial should be considered not meaningful and not 
informative for the purpose of this procedure. Moreover, further discussion is warranted about the 
feasibility of non-interventional studies for addressing this issue. 
Whilst acknowledging that the MAH’s methodology applied for assessing the cases is questionable and 
that the number of discarded cases is remarkable, we noticed the lack of well-established case 
definitions and key information criteria for adjudging the HMB cases. Nevertheless, it should be 
considered that the overall number of relevant ICSRs is low compared to exposure, accounting for a 
low reporting rate and a possible reporting bias due to media attention (for us also inferable from the 
EMA report on EEA cases and media attention). Some relevant information is lacking in part of the re-
assessed cases, particularly regarding clinical and pharmacological history. A question that remains 
open is how to determine the rechallenge and how to perform causality assessment without meaningful 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 78/87 
 
 
 
 
 
information on menstrual period features before vaccine administration, also taking into account the 
range and natural variability in menstrual cycles.   
Although we agree that some cases of rechallenge have not been considered and adequately assessed 
in the MAH analysis, we considered the overall number as not relevant, in light of the above-mentioned 
limitations. In this regard, we remark that the causality assessment undertaken does not align with the 
WHO-UMC-guidance document and a more accurate and appropriate causality assessment should have 
been made before drawing any conclusion. 
Therefore, we consider that the available data are still not sufficient to support changes in PI at this 
stage and that further discussion on feasibility of accurate longitudinal studies is warranted in order to 
address this issue. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: With regards to the imbalance from clinical trials, we acknowledge 
that the numbers are small and cannot be considered as conclusive evidence. However, in a trial of this 
size, risk factors are assumed to be evenly distributed. Therefore, a numerical imbalance should not be 
ignored. A numerical imbalance was not ignored for facial paralysis and this ADR was included in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
We agree with the MS that a further discussion about the feasibility of non-interventional studies is 
warranted. The MAH’s proposal in this regard has been accepted by the PRAC Rapporteur. The MAH 
has requested an additional two months to perform a feasibility assessment regarding non-
interventional studies.  
The MS comments that the overall number of relevant ICSRs is low compared to exposure, accounting 
for a low reporting rate and a possible reporting bias due to media attention. We do not agree on this. 
While we acknowledge the inherent weakness of ICSRs with regards to lack of complete clinical history, 
we do not agree that this is an issue specifically related to this signal. We consider that a large number 
of reports include sufficient information to be considered relevant for the assessment of this signal. As 
detailed in the Assessment Report, we do not agree with the MAH’s case review and their selection of 
relevant cases. In addition to the case review, we consider that the number of ICSRs for HMB relative 
to other reported PTs is strengthening the signal. Globally, the number of ICSRs regarding menstrual 
disorders is ranked high compared to other PTs reported for the same vaccine, e.g there are 111 000 
reports of headache and 22 000 reports of heavy menstrual bleeding, i.e. the general level of reporting 
for this particular product should be taking into consideration when commenting on the actual number 
of reports. Reporting rates are known to vary according to several factors. One of them being the 
severity of the reaction. A prolonged menstrual period and/or a heavy menstrual bleeding is not 
necessarily experienced as dramatic and/or severe, especially if it is self-limiting – and this factor is 
known to influence the likelihood for a reaction to be reported. Also, time to onset from vaccination 
until the reaction appears, is a factor thought to influence the reporting rate. For this particular signal 
there is a TTO up to several weeks, thereby reducing the chance of reporting. Taking into consideration 
that there is a known underreporting in general for adverse reactions, and the factors mentioned which 
further reduces the likelihood for reporting, we do not share the opinion that the reporting rate is low, 
and that media coverage is weakening the signal. 
Regarding the number of positive rechallenge cases, we agree that the exact number of cases is of less 
relevance. The fact that there exist several cases of positive rechallenge is, however, an important 
factor to have in mind when assessing causality. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 79/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comment from MS11: 
The PRAC Rapporteur’s thorough and critical assessment is highly appreciated. 
However we conclude that the data assessed in the current round do not provide important new 
insights to strengthen the current signal. 
This also applies to the latest supplemental sub-analysis by Trogstad et al. (see more detailed 
comments below). 
Consequently, the current evidence is insufficient to support an update of the product information. 
Regarding supplemental sub-analysis by Trogstad et al. 
Although the authors observed a relative risk of experiencing heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) 
following COVID-19 vaccination of 2.00 (CI: 1.54-2.60) after dose 1 and 1.64 (1.33-2.01) after dose 2, 
robustness of this finding is questioned. Based on the currently provided information it cannot be 
agreed that the at least a reasonable possibility for an association between vaccination with BNT162b2 
and HMB is further strengthened by the publication from Trogstad et al including the latest sub-
analysis. 
Several issues around the conduct of the study have not been clarified and therefore this study does 
not allow to conclude on an increased risk of HMB with Comirnaty exposure: 
1. 
It is unclear whether the supplemental tables are based exclusively on women using the 
tracking app or whether cycle history is obtained from a mix of app and questionnaires. Therefore, 
completeness of data and possibility of recall bias cannot be estimated.  
2. 
Tables provide only information regarding last cycle prior to dose 1 (or 2), which is too limited 
to establish cycle regularity. In order to assess pre-vaccination variety at base line, more cycles prior 
to receiving vaccination should have been available. 
3. 
It is understood that the number and prevalence of menstrual disturbances before and after 
vaccination in Supplemental tables 2 and 3 have not been adjusted for confounders and no sensitivity 
analyses have been performed, e.g. by excluding history of infections (incl SARS-CoV-2), concomitant 
medication, presence of alternative etiologies, risk factors, ultrasound abnormalities, BMI.  
@1. The PRAC Rap states that ‘The number of women who report using a menstruation tracking ‘app’ 
was approximately 52 %. As discussed previously, this aid the responders in completing the 
questionnaires, thereby reducing recall bias.’ This is understood as that in half of the women cycle 
history was not tracked and based on questionnaires (i.e. women’s recollection) only. Consequently, 
some reduction of recall bias only applies to half of the women, because no prospective pre-vaccination 
cycle tracking data are available from the other half (i.e. women not using the tracking app). 
Moreover it is unclear how representative the women using the menstruation tracking app are for the 
entire population. As seen in the US studies these are generally younger and higher educated (owning 
a smart phone). A reason why women are inclined to use the app might be to keep track of their 
usually unpredictable cycle in the first place. 
Regarding MAH’s discussion for further investigating HMB (Q1) 
The MAH’s initiatives to further investigate this issue e.g. by collecting additional information from 
clinical trial participants reporting AEs of HMB are welcomed.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 80/87 
 
 
 
 
 
The PRAC Rapporteur’s concern that ‘there is a risk that events of heavy menstrual bleeding are 
insufficiently detected, potentially leading to underestimation.’ is not supported. In the post-marketing 
setting women have reported HMB in large numbers, and we do not see a reason why they would be 
less inclined to do so within the context of a clinical trial. 
Regarding the additional data collection form that is mentioned, the PRAC Rapporteur asked the MAH 
to consider including questions whether menstrual flow was increased following vaccination with the 
primary series. This way of phrasing the question is not supported. A more neutral/objective (i.e. less 
suggestive) line of questioning should be proposed, e.g. ‘Was the menstrual flow same as normal/less 
than normal/more than normal?’ 
Evidently, proposals for additional studies should take into account strengths and weaknesses of 
previous studies, i.e. adequate study design to minimise bias or confounding. 
Regarding the question whether conducting non-interventional studies is feasible, the timeline for 
completion of this feasibility assessment is expected within 2 months. 
Regarding evaluation of clinical trial data (Q2) 
When adjusted for exposure in females of childbearing age a slight trend towards an imbalance of HMB 
to the detriment of the vaccinated group is observed, but this can hardly be considered an imbalance, 
as the 95%CIs are overlapping due the very few identified cases (i.e. 1 vs. 0 and 3 vs. 2, in tables 13 
and 14, respectively). Moreover it is noted that this trend apparently is not specific for Heavy 
Menstrual Bleeding, rather also for any adverse event. 
After unblinding, the earliest event start date was 7 days post vaccination and the latest was 115 days 
post vaccination (mean days post vaccination = 35.5), with an event duration of 6-143 days (mean 
duration = 39.6 days, 1 event end date was unknown). This represents a very broad range in TTO, and 
it is assumed that cases with a very long TTOs are considered unlikely supportive for causality, due to 
(non-vaccination-related) intermittent events (including normal menses). 
Regarding updated case review (Q3) 
The PRAC Rapporteur’s critical comments regarding the MAH’s overly restrictive /conservative triage 
and interpretation of WHO causality scaling, and inadequate response to PRAC requests are endorsed. 
It is agreed that instead of MAH’s causality assignment unlikely, in some cases causality may be 
upgraded to possible at most (in absence of other etiologies), but there are still no cases with probable 
causality. 
The PRAC Rapporteur’s comment regarding positive rechallenge cases is endorsed. However, while it is 
important to know the number of positive rechallenge cases (hence supportive for causality), it is 
equally important to have information on number of cases reporting a negative rechallenge 
(unsupportive), since with the high background rate of HMB a chance finding is well possible and the 
proportion of potentially supportive cases should be put into context. 
As general comment for future assessments, in order to allow meaningful secondary assessment the 
MAH is expected improve their methodology in order to apply a less conservative approach for 
dismissing cases as non-supportive for causality. For the current signal based on the thorough case 
review of the PRAC Rapporteur it is concluded that assessment of causality of HMB based on 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 81/87 
 
 
 
 
  
 
spontaneous reports remains challenging considering the high background, high variation, subjective 
nature of the AEs. 
In summary, it is agreed that the case review performed by the both the MAH and PRAC Rapporteur 
has limitations, and remains inconclusive regarding the causal relation between vaccination and HMB. 
Consequently, it also means that as in the previous round the current evidence is insufficient to 
support an update of the product information. 
Regarding pathophysiological mechanism (Q4) 
The limited knowledge regarding the pathophysiological pathway is considered to neither strengthen 
nor weaken the signal. Consequently, the current evidence is inconclusive and unaltered relative to the 
adopted PRAC conclusion from the previous assessment round. 
Comparing the signal of HMB to myocarditis is not considered a valid argument to support labelling as 
ADR in SmPC section 4.8, amongst others because: 
• 
For myocarditis a consistently [in different geographical locations, e.g. US, EU, Israel, and in 
independently conducted observational studies] increased risk was observed in particular age groups, 
risk windows/TTO, above the background incidence. 
• 
• 
Case identification relies on medical confirmation [which is more objective than for HMB] 
Myocarditis is a potentially serious adverse reaction, warranting early detection, diagnosis, to 
allow adequate management 
These points do not apply to HMB. 
It is agreed that an established plausible mechanism is not a prerequisite for labelling (it never is), but 
all available evidence should be taken into account and should be supportive in its entirety. 
It is reiterated that in isolation and in absence of exclusion of other etiologies a high number of 
observed Adverse Events (not ADRs as the PRAC Rap states) is neither unexpected, nor sufficient to 
support causality. Especially considering the high background, high variation, subjective nature of the 
AEs. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: 
The detailed and comprehensive comment by the MS is appreciated. 
Regarding the Trogstad study: The MS comments that “Several issues around the conduct of the study 
have not been clarified…” Please find clarifications on the issues detailed below. 
1. The study was based on a questionnaire, and 52% of the respondents said that their response in the 
questionnaire was aided by the use of an app.  
2. Cycle regularity is not based on the last period prior to vaccination. To account for previous cycle 
variability, an analysis stratified by reported previous menstrual regularity has been performed, which 
we would like to remind the MS of (table 6, page 63 of this AR). For women who reported that their 
cycles were always or usually regular, the relative risk of experiencing heavy menstrual bleeding 
following COVID-19 vaccination was consistent with the relative risk rates reported for all women. 
These results demonstrate that the increased relative risk of HMB following vaccination is not driven by 
reported events in women who usually have irregular menstruation. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 82/87 
 
 
 
 
 
3. The MS states that it is understood that the number and prevalence of menstrual disturbances 
before and after vaccination in Supplemental tables 2 and 3 have not been adjusted for confounders 
and no sensitivity analyses have been performed. This is not correct - these factors have been 
adjusted for, and the data was provided in the AR in the first assessment round. 
Trogstad et al has performed several sensitivity analysis: 
- Disease in the uterus/cervix (myoma, endometriosis, PCOS, HPV infection, abnormal cervical cells, 
ovarian cyst, «other diseases») - page 20. 
- Positive SARS COV-2: women with positive test for SARS-COV-2 within 6 weeks after dose 1 or dose 
2 have been excluded as a sensitivity analysis – page 21 
- Use of contraception – page 22 
The factor that remains on the MS’s list of factors that should be included in a sensitivity analysis is 
BMI. The other factors have been analysed. 
The MS states that users of a menstrual app might have irregular cycles – we consider this statement 
to be speculative. Q1: Regarding MAH’s discussion for further investigating HMB  
The comment that it cannot be concluded that the settings in clinical studies are different from the 
post-marketing setting regarding incentive to spontaneously report an adverse event is endorsed.  
We endorse the suggestion to phrase the question in the additional data form to the lines of ‘Was the 
menstrual flow same as normal/less than normal/more than normal?’ We would like to point out that 
an exact wording of this question was not imposed on the MAH, but a suggestion for consideration.  
Further details regarding the MAH’s proposal on how the issue can be addressed in studies are 
expected later, as the MAH proposes to submit a feasibility assessment within two months, which has 
been accepted. Therefore, additional specifications regarding this study design have not been 
requested in this assessment round.  
Q2: Regarding evaluation of clinical trial data 
Regarding TTO – following vaccination there is a window of approximately six weeks where 
immunological responses might occur. We are therefore in disagreement with the MS statement that 
“very long TTOs” (not otherwise specified) are considered unlikely supportive of causality. Another 
important consideration is that menstruation can occur several weeks after vaccination depending on 
what day of the cycle vaccination took place, therefore a long TTO is not unrealistic seen from a 
medical point of view. 
Regarding the MS comment on statistical significant imbalances – we have never stated that there is a 
statistical significant difference but has commented on the numerical imbalance. Statistical significant 
differences are not expected to be identified, since the study was not powered to detect this.  
Q3: Regarding updated case review 
Cases of negative rechallenge were not part of the LoQ initially and have therefore not been assessed 
specifically. Additionally, as there is no field in the ICSR form for “negative rechallenge” as opposed to 
“positive rechallenge”, cases of “negative rechallenge” are not easily retrievable from e.g. 
EudraVigilance. As the potential effect of the vaccine on the female reproductive system (an on 
average 28 days cyclic system) remains unknown, and a TTO is not defined, we would be hesitant to 
emphasize the lack of negative rechallenge cases, although we understand and acknowledge the 
theoretic reasoning behind the principle. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 83/87 
 
 
 
 
It is agreed that the case review presented by the MAH has limitations. However, based on qualitative 
assessment of countless case narratives, and the fact that there are cases of positive rechallenge, as 
well as other data that has been included in the report, we remain at our conclusion from the first 
round. This has been thoroughly justified elsewhere in the report. We respect that the MS was of 
another opinion in the first round, and since the case review was of a limited value the MS maintains 
their position – as do we.  
Q4: Regarding pathophysiological mechanism 
The purpose behind our comment regarding the lack of pathophysiologic mechanism was to address 
one of the main arguments presented by the MAH, and we wanted to stress that the lack of a 
mechanistic explanation is not valid as an argument to dismiss a potential link, mentioning myocarditis 
as an example. We did not intend to compare the data and level of evidence between the two 
reactions, and it was not intended as an argument to include this in section 4.8. We agree with the MS 
that this is not a valid argument. 
We do however disagree with the statement regarding several factors not being relevant for HMB as 
pointed out by the MS. The importance of early detection does also apply to a heavy menstrual 
bleeding, since a persisting menstrual bleeding could prevent women from conceiving and, secondarily, 
family planning. Further, a heavy menstrual bleeding which impacts daily living, in some instances 
requiring hospitalisation, treatment with iron or blood transfusion and lasting for months, is also a 
serious condition.  
Comment from MS2: 
First, we would like to thank Norwegian colleagues for the very careful assessment. The data from the 
Trogstad study confirms at least possible causal relationship between vaccination with Comirnaty and 
heavy menstrual bleeding. The study is further supported by the Caspersen et al. study in adolescent 
girls and the little imbalance in the clinical studies. The MAH proposed to perform a PASS where the 
data from the menstrual apps and EMR are planned to be assessed. We support the PASS, but we 
don´t understand why only the apps without EMR are planned in EU in view that the MAH plans to 
validate the data from the apps with the data from EMR. Therefore, the MAH should explain the plan 
for validation of the data from EU. The second question is about the expected high percentage of 
women which probably will not attend the physicians and therefore their data will not be validated in 
EMR. How will be these cases assessed?  
The result of the MAH´s assessment cannot be supported. It is not usual that only 14 from 7824 
reported cases are assessed as possibly related and concurrently the number of the possible cases is 
markedly lower than the number of cases with rechallenge. Additionally, the MAH used the 
methodology not allowing to detect all the cases with rechallenge. The MAH´s over-conservative 
approach of the causality assessment and the incorrect search of the cases with rechallenge do not 
allow the meaningful assessment of the provided data. As was highlighted in AR, it is not possible to 
exactly quantify heavy menstrual bleeding. We think that we can´t also expect that higher percentage 
of the cases confirmed by the physicians in future and the problems with the causality assessment of 
the patient reports can be therefore further anticipated. As the assessment of this issue will probably 
persist based on the patient reports the role of the patient reports in the assessment should be better 
specified. The fact that PT heavy menstrual bleeding is the 17th most frequently reported PT in Vigilyze 
should not be also ignored. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 84/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the data from Trogstad study, Caspersen study and based on the little imbalance in the 
clinical trials we find the causal association between heavy ME bleeding and Comirnaty at least possible 
and therefore, we support the Rapp´s conclusion to add the ADR Heavy menstrual bleeding to the PI. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: 
The comment and endorsement of our conclusion to update the PI are highly appreciated. 
Regarding the non-interventional studies proposed by the MAH, we share the same concerns as the 
member state, as we have concluded in our assessment of Q1 in section 4.1.2. We appreciate this 
support. The MAH has not submitted a final proposal for the non-interventional studies, which awaits a 
feasibility report. Further details are expected for review later.   
Comment from MS6: 
We fully endorse the Rapporteur's conclusion and have no further comments. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: 
The endorsement is highly appreciated. 
Comment from MS3: 
We overall agree with PRAC Rapporteur to include heavy menstrual bleeding in section 4.8 of the 
product information due to the following reasons:  
-Although the number of cases in clinical trials is very small, a numerical imbalance and a higher 
incidence rate of heavy menstrual bleeding in subjects receiving study drug than placebo is identified.  
-The different sensitivity analyses by Trogstad et al showed consistent results, even when only women 
with previous normal menstruation are analysed. The study by Carpensen et al in adolescent also 
showed the same pattern of results, although the same sub analyses are not presented.  
-In addition, there are other studies with different designs that showed similar results. A cross-
sectional study published by Baena et al showed that of 14,153 women who had received the full 
course of vaccination at least three months earlier, 11,017(78% of them) reported menstrual changes. 
The most predominant menstrual changes was heavy menstrual bleeding –HMB- (43%). To note that 
although this study is a self-reported study, the survey was conducted shortly after the end of the 
vaccination campaign to avoid recall bias. In addition, in a systematic review of 14 studies including 78 
138 females vaccinated, 52,05% (39 759 women) showed menstrual disorders. Menorrhagia, 
metrorrhagia and polymenorrea were the most commonly reported problems (Nazir M et al, 2022). 
-Regarding the spontaneous cases, we concur with the Rapporteur that the number of cases with 
positive rechallenge would be higher than the reported by the MAH. In addition, the number of serious 
cases of HMB has increased from previous AR.  
-According to the Rapporteur, in Vigilyze heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) is the 15th most frequently 
reported ADR and the other ADRs more frequently than HMB are already listed in the SmPC. In the 
MS3 database with data until 22 May 2022, HMB is the 16th most frequently reported with Comirnaty 
and the other ADRs more frequently than HMB are also already listed.  
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 85/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, we consider that available data support the inclusion of information in the SmPC (section 
4.8), so that women are informed. Information about the nature (transient and mild) of these ADRs 
should also be included as a footnote. 
References:  
Baena-García L, Aparicio VA, Molina-López A, Aranda P, Cámara-Roca L, Ocón-Hernández O. 
Premenstrual and menstrual changes reported after COVID-19 vaccination: The EVA project. Womens 
Health (Lond). 2022 Jan-Dec;18:17455057221112237. doi: 10.1177/17455057221112237. PMID: 
35833668; PMCID: PMC9289916. 
Nazir M, Asghar S, Rathore MA, Shahzad A, Shahid A, Khan AA, Malik A, Fakhar T, Kausar H, Malik J. 
Menstrual abnormalities after COVID-19 vaccines: A systematic review. Vacunas. 2022 Jul 19;23:S77–
87. doi: 10.1016/j.vacun.2022.07.001. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 35873308; PMCID: PMC9294036. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: 
The endorsement and detailed justification are highly appreciated. 
The data presented from MS3 corroborate the data assessed in the report and the conclusion of the 
PRAC Rapporteur.  
Regarding the proposed footnote and the wording of “transient and mild in nature”: as was commented 
on during the first round of assessment: the current evaluation did not investigate the characteristics 
of the heavy menstrual bleeding such as its duration, and therefore we would be cautious to include 
information on severity and duration in the Product Information at this stage. 
Comment from MS4: 
Although evidence to demonstrate an association between Comirnaty and heavy menstrual bleeding is 
not very strong, such association cannot be completely excluded.  After considering epidemiological 
data, some well-described cases and the cases with positive rechallenge, MS4 considers that a causal 
association is reasonably possible and supports the inclusion of “heavy menstrual bleeding” in 4.8. 
MS4 suggests that the focus of future studies is enlarged to include also other menstrual disorders. 
PRAC Rapporteur’s comment: 
The endorsement is appreciated. 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 86/87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4.  Updated rapporteur’s proposed recommendation 
Based  on  currently  available  evidence  the  PRAC  Rapporteur  considers  that  the  SmPC/PIL  should  be 
updated with information regarding heavy menstrual bleeding. The MAH is asked to propose a frequency 
category. 
The wording in of the proposed update to section 4.8 of the SmPC has been amended in accordance with 
the MS comments. 
Text for SmPC 
Section 4.8: Heavy menstrual bleeding. 
Text for PIL 
Section 4 (possible side effects): Heavy menstrual bleeding 
4.5.  Adopted PRAC recommendation 
Having considered all the available evidence, including spontaneous case reports in EudraVigilance, 
data from national reviews, observational studies, and provided by the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
(MAH), the PRAC has agreed that the MAH for COVID-19 mRNA vaccine (nucleoside-modified) 
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) should submit by 25 November 2022 a variation to amend 
the product information as described below (new text underlined): 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects  
System Organ Class: Reproductive system and breast disorders 
[Frequency] Not known: Heavy menstrual bleeding* 
[Under table] * Most cases appeared to be non-serious and temporary in nature. 
Package leaflet: 
Section 4 - Possible side effects 
Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data):  
Heavy menstrual bleeding (most cases appeared to be non-serious and temporary in nature) 
Signal assessment report on heavy menstrual bleeding with tozinameran / Comirnaty 
(COVID-19 mRNA vaccine)  
EMA/PRAC/897622/2022  
Page 87/87 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
