EMA/551881/2017  
EMEA/H/C/002052 
EPAR summary for the public 
Signifor 
pasireotide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Signifor. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Signifor. 
For practical information about using Signifor, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Signifor and what is it used for? 
Signifor is a medicine for treating adults with Cushing’s disease (a condition caused by too much of a 
hormone called cortisol) and acromegaly (excessive growth, particularly of bones in the hands, feet 
and face caused by too much growth hormone). 
Signifor is used for these conditions when surgery has failed or is not possible and, in the case of 
acromegaly, when the condition is also not adequately controlled with other medicines similar to 
Signifor known as ‘somatostatin analogues’.  
Because the numbers of patients with these diseases are low, the diseases are considered ‘rare’, and 
Signifor was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases). 
It contains the active substance pasireotide. 
How is Signifor used? 
Signifor is available as a solution for injection under the skin and as a powder and liquid used for 
injection into the muscle. 
In patients with Cushing’s disease, Signifor is given as an injection either under the skin (preferably at 
the top of the thigh and the belly) twice a day or into the buttock muscle every 4 weeks. After 2 to 4 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
months, the patient’s response to treatment should be evaluated, and the dose adjusted as 
appropriate or treatment stopped if no benefit is seen. If side effects develop the dose may need to be 
temporarily reduced.  
For acromegaly, Signifor is given as an injection into the buttock muscle every 4 weeks. The dose may 
need to be adjusted according to response, or if side effects develop.  
Patients can inject themselves Signifor under the skin after they have been trained. The medicine can 
only be obtained with a prescription. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Signifor work? 
The active substance in Signifor, pasireotide is a somatostatin analogue. This means that it works in 
the same way as the natural hormone, somatostatin, to block the release of growth hormone from the 
pituitary glands located at the base of the brain and indirectly block the release of cortisol from the 
adrenal gland found above the kidneys. (To reduce cortisol, pasireotide first reduces the production of 
another hormone ACTH, which controls cortisol production.) 
By reducing levels of cortisol and growth hormone, the medicine can help alleviate symptoms of 
Cushing’s disease and acromegaly. 
What benefits of Signifor have been shown in studies? 
Cushing’s disease 
Signifor is effective at normalising cortisol levels in some patients with Cushing’s disease. In a main 
study in 165 adult patients who were given the injection under the skin, 15% of patients receiving 
0.6 mg Signifor and 26% of patients receiving 0.9 mg Signifor had normal urine cortisol levels within 6 
months. 34% of patients receiving 0.6 mg Signifor and 41% of patients receiving 0.9 mg Signifor 
partially responded to treatment, with their urine cortisol levels halved within 6 months. 
In a second study in 150 adult patients which used the muscle injection, around 41% of patients 
responded to treatment within 7 months.  
Acromegaly 
Signifor is effective in reducing levels of growth hormone and IGF-1 (another hormone that is elevated 
in acromegaly patients). In a main study in 358 previously untreated adults, 31% of patients receiving 
Signifor had their growth hormone and IGF-1 levels reduced to pre-defined low levels after 1 year, 
compared with 19% of patients receiving octreotide, another somatostatin analogue. Pre-defined levels 
were less than 2.5 micrograms/liter for growth hormone or within normal limits for IGF-1. 
In the second study in 198 patients whose disease had not been adequately controlled with surgery or 
other medical treatment, 15% of patients receiving Signifor 40 mg and 20% of patients receiving 
Signifor 60 mg achieved pre-defined reductions in hormone levels after 24 weeks, compared with none 
of the 68 patients given the somatostatin analogues octreotide or lanreotide. 
Continuation of both studies confirmed the long-term benefit of Signifor in patients with acromegaly. 
What are the risks associated with Signifor? 
The most common side effects with Signifor (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are hyperglycaemia 
(high blood sugar levels), diabetes, diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach ache), nausea (feeling sick), 
Signifor  
EMA/551881/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
cholelithiasis (gallstones), injection site reactions, and tiredness. For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Signifor, see the package leaflet. 
Signifor must not be used in patients with severe liver problems. For the full list of restrictions with 
Signifor, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Signifor approved? 
Signifor is effective at reducing elevated cortisol levels patients with Cushing’s disease. Although the 
number of patients whose cortisol levels returns to normal is small, Signifor is expected tp help 
patients whose surgical treatments have failed or who cannot have surgery. Those patients who do not 
experience clinical benefit can stop treatment. 
Signifor is also effective in reducing levels of growth hormone in patients with acromegaly. Although its 
side effects are similar to those of other somatostatin analogues, high blood sugar occurred more 
frequently and was more severe with Signifor. For this reason, Signifor should be used for acromegaly 
only when the condition is not controlled by other medicines of its class. 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that the benefits of Signifor are greater than its risk and 
recommended that it approved in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Signifor? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Signifor have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Signifor 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Signifor on 24 April 2012. 
The full EPAR for Signifor can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Signifor, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summaries of the opinions of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Signifor can be 
found on the Agency’s website:  
•  Cushing’s disease 
•  Acromegaly 
This summary was last updated in 09-2017. 
Signifor  
EMA/551881/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
