6th May 2021  
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic 
events (SMQ) with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
(Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant])  
EPITT no:19689 
Confirmation assessment report 
Adoption of first PRAC Recommendation 
Submission of responses by MAH 
Preliminary assessment report 
Deadline for comments 
Updated Rapporteur assessment 
Adoption of 2nd PRAC recommendation 
Submission of responses by MAH 
Rapporteur assessment  
Deadline for comments 
Updated Rapporteur assessment report 
Adoption of 3rd PRAC recommendation 
3rd April 2021 
9th April 2021 
15th April 2021 
19th April 2021 
19th April 2021 (8pm 
CET) 
20th April 2021 (9am 
20th April 2021 
22nd April 2021 
30th April 2021 
30th April 2021 (8pm 
CET) 
3rd May 2021 
06th May 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European  Union       
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Active substance(s) (invented  name)   
COVID-19 Vaccine (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
– COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen suspension for 
injection (Other viral vaccines) 
Strength(s) 
Pharmaceutical  form(s) 
Route(s) of administration 
Indication(s) 
All 
All 
All  
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is indicated for active 
immunisation to  prevent COVID-19 caused by  
SARS-CoV-2 in individuals 18 years of age and 
older 
Marketing  authorisation holder(s) 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
Authorisation procedure  
  Centralised 
  Mutual  recognition or decentralised 
  National 
Adverse event/reaction:1 
Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) 
Signal validated  by: 
EMA 
PRAC Rapporteur appointed for the 
Ulla Wändel Liminga, SE 
assessment of the  signal: 
1 Please use MedDRA terminology whenever possible  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 2/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Administrative information.................................................................................. 2 
1. Background............................................................................................. 4 
2. Initial evidence ....................................................................................... 5 
2.1. Signal validation ........................................................................................ 5 
2.2. Signal conf irmation ..................................................................................... 9 
2.3. Proposed recommendation...........................................................................14 
2.4. Comments from other PRAC members ............................................................15 
2.5. Adopted PRAC recommendation (1st round) ......................................................17 
3. Additional evidence ............................................................................... 18 
3.1. Assessment of additional data ......................................................................18 
3.1.1. MAH response as of 15th April 2021 .............................................................19 
3.1.2. Case reports from EudraVigilance/received through VAERS ................................61 
3.1.3. EVDAS Search Summary ..........................................................................66 
3.1.4. PRAC Rapporteur discussion updated ...........................................................75 
3.1.5. Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation .......................................................79 
3.1.6. Issues for an oral explanation at the PRAC ....................................................81 
3.1.7. Request for supplementary information ........................................................81 
3.1.8. Comments from other PRAC members and MAH..............................................82 
3.1.9. Response from MAH (submitted 19 April 2021)...............................................86 
3.1.10. Updated rapporteur's proposed recommendation ...........................................88 
3.1.11. Adopted PRAC recommendation (2nd round) .................................................91 
3.2. Assessment of second set of additional data .....................................................94 
3.2.1. MAH response as of 22nd April 2021 .............................................................94 
3.2.2. Updated review of EudraVigilance data with case reports of interest................... 123 
3.2.3. Late-breaking additional cases from FDA..................................................... 129 
3.2.4. 2nd Updated Rapporteur’s discussion .......................................................... 131 
3.2.5. 2nd Updated Rapporteur’s recommendation .................................................. 137 
3.2.6. Comments from other PRAC members........................................................ 139 
3.2.7. Response from MAH (submitted 30 April 2021)............................................. 140 
3.2.8. 3rd Updated Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation...................................... 143 
3.2.9 Adopted PRAC Recommendation (3rd round)……………………………………….…………………………….151 
4. References .......................................................................................... 150 
References (non-clinical) ................................................................................. 150 
Additional references provided by EMA................................................................ 151 
5. Annex ................................................................................................. 153 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 3/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background 
Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen (also referred to as Ad26.COV2.S) is a monovalent, recombinant, replication  
incompetent adenovirus type 26 (Ad26) vectored vaccine encoding the severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV2) spike (S) protein. 
On the 27th  Feb 2021,  the US FDA issued an emergency use authorisation for Covid -19 Janssen 
vaccine. Vaccination with Covid-19 Janssen vaccine in the US has commenced. 
It received a conditional marketing authorisation (CMA) throughout  the EU  on the 11th  March 2021 for 
the active immunisation to prevent COVID -19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 in individuals aged 18 years and 
older. As of this date, initiation  of vaccination within  the  EU with  Covid -19 Janssen, has not 
commenced. 
“Venous thromboembolism” has been included as an important potential risk in the list of safety 
concerns in the risk management plan for Covid-19 Janssen vaccine. This was due to a numerical 
imbalance observed in the pivotal phase 3 trial  (VAC31518COV.3001) regarding venous 
thromboembolic events. At time of approval, data up to 22 January 2021 had been provided, and this 
numerical imbalance corresponded to 11  subjects in  the vaccine group (n=21,895)  vs. 4 in  the placebo 
group. In the vaccine group, there were: 6 DVT type events, 4  pulmonary e mbolism, 1 transverse 
sinus thrombosis (including 6 SAEs & 1 non-serious related AE; 8 events occurred within  28 days 
following vaccination). In the placebo group (n=21,888),  there were: 2  DVT events, 1 pulmonary 
embolism, 1 thrombosed haemorrhoid (including  1 related SAE & 1 none-related SAE, all within  28 
days of vaccination).  
Based on an overview of thromboembolic events submitted  by the MAH  to the EMA  on the  29th March, 
with  a cut off of 17  March 2021, the following  summary was provided:    
Table 1: 
Thrombotic and Thromboembolic Events in Study COV3001 1 
Full Analysis Set 
Total participants with any event 
(percentage) 
Venous thromboembolic events 
Deep vein thrombosis 
Pulmonary embolism 
Cerebral sinus thrombosis 
Retinal vein thrombosis 
Thrombophlebitis 
Venous stent occlusion 
Thrombosed haemorrhoid 
Total participants with venous events 
Arterial thromboembolic events 
Cerebrovascular events 
Cardiovascular events 
Arterial stent occlusion 
Total participants with arterial events 
Ad26.COV2.S 
N=21,895 
n 
29 (0.1) 
Placebo 
N=21,888 
n 
22 (0.1) 
112 
7 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
21 
64 
3 
0 
8 
3 
33 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
9 
9 
4 
15 
14 
1 Data until March 17th , 2021 
2 Includes one event reported as ‘venous thrombosis limb’ and one event reported as ‘embolism venous’  
3 One patient reported both deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism as separate terms 
4 Two events reported in 1 participant 
5 One participant reported 2 events of stent occlusion (1 venous, 1 arterial)  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 4/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the 12th  March 2021,  a signal of Embolic and Thrombotic events was confirmed for 
VAXZEVRIA/COVID-19 AstraZeneca vaccine, another adenoviral vectored vaccine. Following further 
evaluation, the focus of the signal has been on atypical coagulopathies characterised by thrombosis, 
often in unusual location, together with  thrombocytopenia. At this point  in time the signal is currently 
ongoing. 
2.  Initial evidence 
2.1.  Signal validation  
To date, three reports have been received by EMA concerning events of thrombosis co -reported with 
thrombocytopenia in  association with  Covid-19 Janssen vaccine. Of the 3 reports, one originates from 
the pivotal phase 3  trial (VAC31518COV.3001) and two concern spontaneous repo rts from the US. Of 
the three reports, 2  concern female patients (age ranges 38-48  & 52-62 years) while one concerns a 
male patient  (18-28  years). Of the  3 reports, one is fatal. Time to  onset included 11  days (n=2)  and 
19 days (n=1).  Thrombotic events reported included transverse sinus thrombosis, cerebral venous 
sinus thrombosis and bilateral iliac and femoral deep vein thromboses. Although  thrombocytopenia was 
reported in one case, platelet counts  were not provided. In the remaining two cases, platelet c ounts 
were specified as 64,000  (units  not specified) and 15,000  (units  not specified).  
The case narratives are presented below. 
-Spontaneous 
Case 1: 
This serious case concerns a fatal report regarding a female patient aged between 38-48.  Other 
illnesses at the  time of vaccination and up to one-month prior included depression. Concomitant 
medications included fluoxetine. The adverse event started  7 days after vaccination. 
Diagnosis included cortical vein thrombosis, massive intracerebral haemorrhage with te ntorial 
herniation and thrombocytopenia (value not specified). 
One week after receiving the  Janssen Covid-19 vaccine, the patient  developed gradually worsening 
headache. The patient presented to the hospital with  dry heaving, sudden worsening of headache a nd 
left-sided weakness. Evaluation with  head computed tomography (CT) revealed a large right 
temporoparietal intraparenchymal haemorrhage with 1.3cm  midline shift. She was intubated  for 
worsening mental status. On evaluation, upon arrival in the medical ce ntre, she was noted to exhibit 
extensor posturing. Repeat imaging revealed worsening midline shift to 1.6cm.  CT angiography showed 
cortical vein thrombosis involving the right transverse and sigmoid sinus with  tentorial herniation.  The 
patient developed brain herniation. Brain death was subsequently pronounced.  
CT angiography (CTA) of the head: the supraclinoid internal carotid arteries (ICAs) are patent 
bilaterally. The right  middle cerebral artery (MCA) is elevated by the large right  hemispheric 
haematoma. There is no occlusion or significant  stenosis involving the right  MCA. The left MCA and 
bilateral anterior cerebral arteries (ACAs) are within  normal limits. The intracranial vertebral arteries, 
left posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA), basilar artery and both posterior cerebral arteries (PCAs) 
are patent.  There is no aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation (AVM). The evaluation of the  venous 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 5/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
structures is limited on this  CTA but there is no opacification of the  right transverse and sigmoid 
sinuses suggestive of dural sinus thrombosis. 
Large right  hemispheric haematoma is demonstrated with  significant right-to-left  midline shift 
measuring approximately 16mm. Effacement of the right lateral ventricle and dilation of the left lateral 
ventricle. Right-sided  transtentorial herniation is noted. 
Impression: suspect right transverse and sigmoid sinus dural sinus thrombosis. This can be confirmed 
with  CTV (i.e. CT cerebral venography) if clinically necessary. No evidence of aneurysm of AVM to 
account for the  right hemispheric intraparenchymal haematoma. Significant right-to-left  and downward 
transtentorial herniation is noted. 
Case 2:  
This serious case concerns a female patient  aged between 52-62  years. Other illnesses at the time of 
vaccination and up to  one-month prior include diarrhoea. 
Concomitant medication included (levodopa/carbidopa), (formoterol/budesonide), (clonazepam), 
(citalopram), (lemborexant), (icosapent), (diclofenac), (sumatriptan), (r opinirole), (quetiapine), 
Celecoxib, Albuterol inhaler, Omeprazole, (levothyroxine), (hydrocodone), low dose aspirin. The report 
notes that  the patient had allergies to tetracycline and vortioxetine.  
The adverse event started 11 days after vaccination. The patient  had 5  days of bruising and left  leg 
swelling prior to presenting to the emergency department. She was found to have an extensive, 
occlusive deep vein thrombosis (DVT) of the left lower extremity as well as thrombocytopenia of 
15,000  (units not  specified). 
That evening she had an inferior vena cava (IVC) filter placed. The next day, the  patient began to have 
paraesthesia’s and discoloration of the right lower extremity. Ultrasound  showed high -grade occlusion 
of the right proximal, superficial femoral artery. The patient was pre-treated with  platelets. In addition 
to the right  superficial femoral artery (SFA) there is also thrombotic  occlusion of the bilateral iliacs. The 
patient had bilateral thrombectomy and bilateral common iliac stent  placement. The follow ing day she 
developed gross haematuria. At  the time of the report, the  patient had not recovered from the event.  
Clinical trial case 
Case 3: 
This case concerns a subject aged between 18-28,  with  no significant  past medical history who was 
hospitalised with  life threatening  sinus venous transverse thrombosis and secondary cerebral 
haemorrhage, on day 19 day following vaccination with  Ad26.COV2. Concomitant medications included 
naproxen and ibuprofen. The subject was administered Ad26.COV2 in the upper left a rm. Afterwards, 
the subject reported mild fatigue, nausea, headache (moderate) and myalgia along with  a fever (body 
temperature: 38.2  deg C, 101 deg F). Most  of the symptoms resolved by the  third day with  the 
exception of the headache which  eventually reso lved the following day. 
On day 9 the  subject reported feeling unwell  with viral-like symptoms of headache, fatigue, nausea, 
constipation, weakness, abdominal pain, sore throat,  myalgias, chills, shaking and fever (body 
temperature: 38.4  deg C). At that time,  he took ibuprofen (dose and times not reported). That same 
day his oxygen saturation via pulse oximetry was 94%. The next day, he began with  rhinorrhoea, 
faintness and nasal congestions and body temperature increased to 39.2 deg C.   
On Day 11, he reported continued  fatigue, weakness, rhinorrhoea, myalgia, faintness, abdominal pain, 
nausea and headache. He denied any other neurological symptoms. His symptoms met the protocol 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 6/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
prescribed trigger for obtaining  nasal swabs for Covid-19 and swabs were collected all of which were 
reported negative. Upon clinical examination, he had a fever (38.4 deg C), oxygen saturation 98% and 
blood pressure 98/64mmHg.  The subject’s symptoms gradually improved without  treatment ad all 
symptoms except for the  headache had resolved over the next 7 days. The subject reported that  the 
headache improved but never completely resolved.  
 On day 19,  he experienced visual disturbances and was observed to pass out with  subsequent tonic -
clonic seizures. Upon hospitalisation, laboratory te sts  included: platelet count was 64,000  (unit  and 
reference range not provided), prothrombin time (PT): 17.7,  international normalised ration (INR): 
1.46,  fibrinogen: 154,  white blood cell count: 12.4,  haemoglobin: 12.7  and haematocrit: 36.1  (units 
and normal ranges were not provided).  
A SARS-CoV-2 PCR (nasal swab) test  was not  performed as he reported two recent negative tests. 
Computed tomography (CT) scan without  contrast showed right posterior lobe haematoma 
approximately 5ml in size. CT scan with  contrast performed 2 hours later showed an enlarged prior 
right posterior lobe haematoma with  peripheral oedema. A CT angiography and magnetic resonance 
image (MRI)  showed a cerebral haemorrhage 9right temporal occipital haematoma). The investigator, 
added that  the acute parenchymal haemorrhage in the right posterior temporal lobe, measured 2.0 
x2.4cm in diameter and estimated volume was 5ml. There was no midline shift.  There was no evidence 
of hydrocephalus and no skull fracture identified. There was no acute sinusitis  or mastoiditis. 
On day 20,  platelet count was 60x10e3/mcL at 01.13  hours and 113  x10e3/mcL at 17.55  hour s, 
prothrombin time was 15.7 seconds (NR: 11.5-15)  and INR was 1.29 (NR: 0.80-1.20).  On day 21, 
peripheral blood smear showed neutrophilic  leucocytosis, no blasts were identified. Red blood cell 
count and morphology were within  normal limits  and thrombocytopenia with  rare large platelet forms 
were seen. 
During the hospitalisation, a venogram showed a clot in  the cerebral transverse sinus. The su bject was 
given a diagnosis of severe transverse sinus venous thrombosis and underwent  a thrombectomy on    
day 22.  The interventional radiologist who performed the thrombectomy reported that  the subject had 
significant stenosis in his right  sigmoid sinus a nd thus  placing him at high risk for thrombosis. At that 
time an angioplasty was also performed on the  stenosed sinus and treatment with  acetylsalicylic acid 
was initiated. 
On day 23,  the subject developed nausea and dizziness when standing. His  headache c ontinued to 
worsen in  intensity and a repeat venogram was performed which showed the presence of a new clot in 
the transverse sinus resulting in recurrent occlusion of the right transverse sinus with  no flow identified 
in the sigmoid sinus or jugular bulb.  The subject then  underwent a second thrombectomy with 
venoplasty and was started on a low molecular weight  heparin for 24 hours as well as intravenous (IV) 
tissue plasminogen (tPA)  and heparin drips. MRI ruled out  arterio -venous malformation and aneurysm. 
Laboratory testing  showed that  methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase mutation  test and Beta 2 
glycoprotein 1 antibodies (IgG and IgM) were negative. Lupus anticoagulant  was negative and lactate 
dehydrogenase was 304unit/L  (NR:135-225). 
On day 24,  repeat venogram showed that  the transverse sinus was free of thrombus with  brisk venous 
flow. All catheters were removed, tPA was discontinued and heparin was continued with  a plan to  begin 
apixaban.  
Of note, the interventional radiologist reported observing rapid  thrombus formation during the  two 
thrombectomy procedures that is consistent with  a hypercoagulable state clinically. He also stated  that 
the transverse sinus thrombosis most likely occurred days before the subject’s clinical presentation 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 7/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  a seizure, and that the seizure was a consequence of a secondary bleed caused by the  elevated 
venous pressure from the venous flow obstruction. He  further reported that the  subject’s apparent 
hypercoagulable clinically (based on observation that  blood appeared to be r e-clotting  before his eyes 
during the thrombectomy) is similar to  what he has seen with  hypercoagulable COVID -19 patients. 
Another SARS-CoV2 PCR test was negative, activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) was 136.9 
seconds 9critical) at  17.36 hours (NR: 23.5-37.5),  fibrinogen was 274mg/dl  (NR: 200 -450), 
phospholipid IgG and IgM antibodies were negative. 
On day 25,  CT of the brain revealed right temporo-occipital haematoma which appeared slightly more 
prominent than on the previous scan. Epstein Barr -virus (EBV) IgG was positive and EBV IgM was 
negative, EBNA antibody positive, APTT was 57.0  seconds (high) at 01.09  hours, 118.8 seconds 
(critical) at 08.42  hours and 30.3  seconds at 16.22  hours. SARS -CoV2 test was negative. 
Multiple  laboratory tests were performed during the hospitalization.   
Seven days after initial hospitalization  and 26  days post vaccination, the subject was discharged from 
the hospital on apixaban, butalbital/acetaminophen/caffeine, levetiracetam, tramadol, acetaminophen 
and aspirin to the care of the investigator. Discharge diagnosis included non -traumatic intracerebral 
haemorrhage, transverse sinus thrombosis, seizure, thrombocytopenia (possibly naproxen induced), 
acute headache, nausea with  vomiting and constipation. At discharge, he had sore throat,  problem 
swallowing and speaking and slight  headache but no neurolo gic deficit.  According to the investigator 
his symptoms were improving. With  ongoing soreness and difficulty swallowing he had lost 15 pounds 
during the hospitalization.  At discharge, laboratory data included white blood cell count 9.2 x10e3/mcl, 
haemoglobin 9.9g/fl  (low), haematocrit 27.3%  (low) and platelet count 204  x10e3/mcl. It was 
reported that  individualized dose optimization technique  was used for procedures performed. The 
subject was evaluated by the  investigator on day 29. On examination he appear ed weak and mildly 
febrile (37.8  degrees C) with normal blood pressure. Posterior oropharynx showed mild erythema, no 
exudate and minimal oedema peripherally. The uvula appeared normal without  oedema or erythema. 
Heart and lung exam were normal. No lymphadenopathy on head and neck exam. No rash. Pallor 
noted. This was followed by a low-grade fever (99.4-99.6  degrees F)  for 2-3  days. He had gained a 
couple of pounds but  continued to have a persistent mild, intermittent  headache. A barium swallow 
test (report not provided) did not show any findings  that explained his swallowing  problems. The 
assessment showed, there was no functional  reasons for swallowing and speech issues, and it was due 
to muscle fatigue. The subject was seen by a neurologist (report not  pr ovided). The subject was seen 
by a speech therapist and he had been drinking fluids  with no issues and some issues still  existed with 
the solid food. The fatigue was getting  better and there was no fever.  
MAH’s Expert consultation within the clinical trial 
1.  Academic experts in infectious disease, haematology and neurology were consulted by the 
company. They concurred with the  diagnosis of transverse sinus thrombosis with  reactive 
cerebral haemorrhage. Individually each consultant  concluded that  the event res ulted from a 
combination of factors including:  1. An anatomic abnormality of cerebral transverse sinus 
stenosis that predisposes the subject to thrombosis; 
2.  A pre-existing or secondary hypercoagulable state; 
3.  An infectious event which  started on day 9 that  triggered inflammation and induced a 
hypercoagulable state or worsened a pre -existing hypercoagulable state;  
Although a specific infection  has not  been identified, and Covid -19 infection was effectively ruled out 
with  multiple negative PCR tests, the  consultants all concurred that  the viral-like symptoms likely 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 8/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
represented an infection that triggered a cascade resulting in the event of transverse sinus thrombosis. 
The consultants also provided recommendations for continued infectious disease and haematology  
work up. 
The consultants also individually concluded that  there is no evidence of the study vaccine causing this 
event of cerebral sinus thrombosis with  reactive haemorrhage.  
Investigator causality assessment: The events of transverse sinus thrombosis and cerebral 
haemorrhage were not related to Ad26. Cov2. 
Company causality assessment: The events of transverse sinus thrombosis and cerebral haemorrhage 
were not  related to Ad26. Cov2. 
Source of Information 
Reports from the US Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) and also pivotal phase III trial, 
VAC31518COV.3001: A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 study to assess the 
efficacy and safety of Ad26. COV2.S for the prevention of SARS -CoV2 mediated Covid-19 in adults 
aged 18  years and older.  
Signal validator conclusion  
To date, three reports have been received by EMA of thrombosis co -reported with  thrombocytopenia in 
association with  Covid-19 Janssen vaccine. While the data at this stage is preliminary, it  is considered 
that  further evaluation is warranted given that  “venous thromboembolism” is listed as an important 
potential risk within  the summary of safety concerns of the RMP and that  a signal of Embolic and 
Thrombotic events is currently ongoing for VAXZEVRIA/COVID -19 AstraZeneca vaccine. However, it 
should be emphasised that a precautionary approach is being adopted.  
2.2.  Signal confirmation  
In light  of the important  potential risk in the RMP for Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen of VTE, as well as the  
raised concern regarding events of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia in association 
with  another Covid-19 adenovirus vector vaccine, the MAH was, on 26 March 2021,  asked the 
following:  
Study VAC31518COV3001 
• 
For the cases of thrombosis reported in this  clinical trial, following review of narratives 
summarised in a document on AESI, it  is noted in  no laboratory data are available. Please 
provide all available data for all cases of thrombosis as well as bleeding  reported in the clinical 
trial, and it  is of particular importance to  obtain any measurements of complete blood count 
including platelets.   
• 
Please provide summaries of thrombocyte levels in subjects in the study,  and for subjects with 
thrombocytopenia, please provide case narratives.  
 Current post marketing  experience   
• 
• 
Please provide an estimate on the  current post  marketing use   
Please provide a cumulative review of cases of thrombosis in combination with 
thrombocytopenia reported in the post marketing setting.   
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 9/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On 29 March, the MAH  provided a short response which included case narratives for all thrombotic 
events, but not for the bleeding events.  
Due to  inconsistencies in the  response such as it was stated that  there was no case in study  
VAC31518COV3001 of thrombosis in  combination with thrombocytopenia, while it  was evident f rom the 
case narrative (see description above), that  the man developing transverse sinus thrombosis also had 
thrombocytopenia.  
As a follow up to that,  MAH  was agreed to provide additional information from an ongoing review of the 
individual case reports of thrombotic  and thromboembolic events for concurrent occurrence of 
thrombocytopenia.  
On 31 March, the MAH  provided the following:   
The following methodology was used to assess if reports of thrombotic or thromboembolic events also 
included thrombocytopenia. 
Janssen’s Global Medical Safety (GMS) Database was first searched using the below search criteria and 
identified 132  reports: 
• 
• 
• 
SMQ Hematopoietic cytopenias 
SMQ Haemorrhages 
SMQ Embolic and thrombotic events 
Text string search of the case reports showed, 15  of 132  cases had platelet  counts reported (some had 
actual lab values, and some had statements that  just said “platelet counts normal” with  no actual labs 
values specified). Of these: 
• 
• 
8 of 15 reports had platelet counts  in normal range    
7 of 15 had platelet counts that  were low  
Of the 7 reports with  low platelet  counts, 1 was a spontaneous report and 6 were from trials (3 
placebo/2 active/1 blinded). 
Of the 4 cases that  had low platelet counts reported on active (2), blinded  (1), or spontaneous (1), 
only one case reported a thromboembolic event along with  confirmed thrombocytopenia as 
summarized below. 
Clinical trial case on active (see detailed narrative description above):  a male subject between the 
ages of 18-28  experienced transverse sinus thrombosis resulting  in cerebral haemorrhage on Day 19 
after receiving a single dose of blinded study vaccine (Day 1)  for prevention of SARS -CoV-2 virus 
infection. After experiencing flu-like illness starting  Day 9, the subject was hospitalized on Day 19 
following a tonic-clonic seizure. Upon hospitalization,  his platelet count was 64,000  with  a nadir of 60k. 
Upon discharge his platelet count  was normal at 334. 
The remaining 3 case summaries are provided below for completeness:  
Spontaneous case: a female between the  ages of 65-75 with  COPD, smoker experienced “low platelet 
count” 5  days after receiving vaccine.  Platelet count  was reported as 1 38k (LL  Normal is 150k).  No 
symptoms/other events reported. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 10/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical trial case blinded:  A female between the ages of 63-73  hospitalized for Pancytopenia and 
determined to  have Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML)  135 days after first vaccine dose and 6 days after 
second dose. She had a grade 3 platelet count  of 26k.  
Clinical trial case on active: An obese male between the ages of 65-75,  who experienced COVID-19, 
Acute kidney injury, embolism venous ad Hypoxia. On 35  days post vaccination he had the acute 
kidney injury, venous embolism, and hypoxia. The platelet  count in this participant  was not verifiable 
as it was reported as “11.7” with  no normal range or units. 
MAH  Conclusion:  
The review of cases of thrombotic  or thromboembolic events and low platelets reve aled that there is 
only one case report that  has both  a thrombotic  or thromboembolic event and low platelets as 
described above. 
On 2 April 2021; the  MAH submitted  the following summary regarding thrombotic  and thromboembolic 
events from spontaneous reporting irrespective of thrombocytopenia: . 
A search of Janssen’s Global Medical Safety (GMS) Database was performed on 31 March 2021 for 
completed spontaneous cases using the Standardised MedDRA Query (SMQ) of Embolic and thrombotic 
events. 
The search identified 13 serious spontaneous case reports (0 non-serious case reports) with  the 
following 14 events from the  SMQ: 
2 Pulmonary embolism (PE); 
1 Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) (this patient  also experienced a Pulmonary embolism) ; 
3 Myocardial infarction (MI); 
5 Cerebrovascular accident (CVA); 
1 Hemiparesis; 
1 Hemiplegia; 
1 Blindness transient; 
Case specifics are detailed in Table 1 below and CIOMS forms  were provided.  
Pulmonary embolism: Both cases were reported from health care providers. For the 2 cases, one  
case had a risk factor of family history of PE and DVT; the  other had minimal information to make  a 
meaningful medical assessment. 
Deep  Vein  Thrombosis: One of the  above Pulmonary embolism cases also reported an associated 
DVT; the  patient had risk factors of family history of PE and DVT. 
Myocardial infarction: All 3 cases were reported from non-health care providers. Two of the 3 cases 
had diagnostics that were negative for myocardial infarction. The third  case had a fatal outcome with 
insufficient information (no diagnostics reported) to  make a meaningful medical  assessment. 
Cerebrovascular accident: All 5 cases were reported from non-health  care providers. Two had 
minimal information reported. Two provided risk factors for stroke, including age in the 80s. One  fatal 
case has an autopsy pending to  provide a final diagnosis with  cause of death. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 11/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hemiparesis:  This case was reported from a non-health care provider who described left  side d 
weakness on the side of injection. There was no diagnosis of CVA, and the subject quickly  recovered on 
the same day. 
Hemiplegia:  This case was reported from a non-health care provider who described “mild 
hemipalegia” [sic] at  injection site with “sore arm” and “injection site stinging”.  No 
suggestion/diagnosis of CVA was made. 
Blindness transient:  This case was reported from a non-health care provider. No  diagnosis of CVA 
was made. No medical care was sought, and the patient  recovered.   
MAH  Conclusion: The search of the Global Medical Safety Database resulted in cases with  limited  
information. Only one of the cases had a confirmed diagnosis reported from a physician who described 
a single patient with  DVT/PE with  known risk factors. No  other cases had medically confirmed 
diagnoses. Based on the currently available information and/or lack of diagnostic evidence for the 
reported events, no conclusions can be reached from this  dataset. 
Table 1: case details  
Gender  Age 
Latency (days) 
Preferred Term 
Outcome 
MAH Comment 
(years) 
male 
46-56 
Unspecified 
Pulmonary 
embolism;  
Deep vein 
thrombosis 
unspecified  Report from a physician. Risk factor of family history of DVT and PE. 
female 
unspecified 
3 
Pulmonary embolism 
unspecified  Report from pharmacist. Female of unknown age reported pulmonary 
embolism 3 days after vaccination.  
female 
43-53 
Unspecified 
Myocardial 
infarction 
Fatal 
Report from non-health care provider.  43-53 yo female died of “heart 
attack” an unknown time period after vaccination.  
female 
unspecified 
1 
male 
unspecified 
7 hours 
female 
unspecified  Unspecified 
female 
unspecified  Unspecified 
Myocardial 
infarction 
Myocardial 
infarction;  
Pyrexia 
Cerebrovascular 
accident; 
Blindness 
Cerebrovascular 
accident; 
Blindness 
Unknown if autopsy performed.  
unspecified  Report from non-health  care provider. Hospitalized with "heart attack 
symptoms" 1 day after vaccination. 
All diagnostic tests came back normal.  
Recovered  
Patient reported on himself.  
All diagnostics were normal as per patient report, including EKG, CAT 
scan, Nuclear stress test, and Transesophageal echo.  
Symptoms included fever. 
Confounded by history of aortic valve repair, and an u nspecified heart 
disorder.  
unspecified  Report from non-health care provider. Female of unknown age reported 
stroke and blindness unknown time period after vaccination.  
unspecified  Report from non-health care provider.  
male 
77-87 
10 hours 
Cerebrovascular 
accident 
Recovered 
Report from non-health care provider. Risk Factors:   Age of 77-87 and 
male sex.   
female 
80-90 
1 
Cerebrovascular 
accident 
Not 
recovered  
Report from non-health care provider. Risk Factors:  History of prior 
stroke; age 80-90.   
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 12/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gender  Age 
Latency (days) 
Preferred Term 
Outcome 
MAH Comment 
(years) 
female 
56-66 
2 
Cerebrovascular 
accident; 
Fatal 
Report from  non-health care  provider. Risk Factors: age  of  56-66; 
hypertension; family history of stroke and hypertension    
Fatigue;  
Malaise 
An autopsy is pending.   
female 
25-35 
Same day 
Hemiparesis; Pain; 
Recovered 
Musculoskeletal 
stiffness; 
Chest pain;  
Pyrexia;  
Injection site pain 
Report from non-health care provider. Experienced non-serious events of 
stiffness, chest pain, fever, and soreness at injection site along with the left 
side of body weakness likely related to reactogenicity.  
There was no diagnosis of stroke, and the subject quickly recovered on the 
same day. 
female 
unspecified  Unspecified 
Hemiplegia;  
unspecified  Report from non-health care provider. Report of “mild hemipalegia” and, 
injection site stinging and sore arm both of which resolved.  
Injection site pain; 
Pain in extremity 
female 
80-90 
Same day/3 days  Blindness transient; 
Recovered 
Report from non-health care provider. 80-90-year-old with vision loss x 1 
hour on day of vaccine, then hearing loss 3 days later.   
Deafness;  
Chills 
Vision loss resolved, outcome of hearing loss not reported.   
MAH’s Estimated post marketing  exposure:   
According to the  CDC (https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#vaccinations), 3,215,657  doses of 
the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine were administered as of March 31, 2021. 
PRAC Rapporteur comment: 
At the approval of the CMA on 11 March 2021,  “Venous thromboembolism” was included as important 
potential risk in the RMP, due to a numerical imbalance of venous thromboembolism observed in the 
main clinical study, VAC31518COV3001.  
On 12 March 2021,  a signal procedure regarding thrombotic  and embolic events was started for 
another adenovirus vector Covid-19 vaccine, which is currently ongoing. During the  asse ssment of this 
signal, very rare cases showing a combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, and in some cases 
accompanied by bleeding, have gained particular attention.   
For the Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen, we are currently aware of three cases with  such unusual 
characteristics. This includes one case with  concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia in study 
VAC31518COV3001 and two post-marketing cases with  concomitant thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia, which  have been reported from the US market. Of the  three reports, 2 concern 
female patients while  one concerns a male patient.  Of the 3 reports, one is fatal. Time to onset 
included 11 days (n=2)  and 19 days (n=1).  Thrombotic ev ents reported included transverse sinus 
thrombosis, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis and bilateral iliac and femoral deep vein thromboses. 
Although thrombocytopenia was reported in one case, platelet counts were not  provided. In the 
remaining two cases, platelet counts were specified as 64,000 (units  not specified) and 15,000 (units 
not specified). For further details of these cases, see above.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 13/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some preliminary information has also been received from the MAH during  the last days of March / 
first days of April; namely in short: 
• 
The post marketing exposure is estimated to approximately 3.2 million doses by 31 March . 
•  A review of the  MAH safety data base regarding thrombotic and thromboembolic events from 
spontaneous reporting irrespective of thrombocytopenia, resulted in identification  of 13  serious 
spontaneous case reports (0 non-serious case reports). For many of this limited information 
was available. None described a combination of thrombocytopenia.   
• 
The review of cases of thrombotic  or thromboembolic events and low platelets revealed that 
there is only one case report that has both a thrombotic or thromboembolic event and low 
platelets. 
Taken together, there are currently three cases of thrombosis together with  thrombocytopenia within 
the clinical trial and post marketing data base, having occurred within  2  -3 weeks after vaccination 
with  Covid-19 vaccine Janssen. For the two  post marketing cases, information is relatively limited. 
Nevertheless, taking into  account that  VTE is an important potential risk in the RMP, and these in total 
three reports, it  is considered warranted to further review thrombotic  and embolic events SMQ  within  a 
signal prompt procedure.  
Given that  there are three cases of this  unusual clinical picture, it may be considered warranted to 
already as a first step update the product information with  a short description of the observed cases as 
well as advice to prescribers and vaccinated individuals.  
2.3.  Proposed recommendation 
The MAH should address the following: 
1.  The cumulative post-marketing exposure divided by age groups if available. 
2.  Presentation of retrieved laboratory values on complete blood count  including platelets for 
cases with  venous or arterial thrombosis in all clinical studies with  the Covid-19 vaccine 
Janssen. 
3.  Presentation of retrieved laboratory values on complete blood count  including platelets for 
cases with  bleeding in  all clinical studies with  the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen. 
4.  A cumulative review of cases observed in clinical studies with  the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen; in 
clinical studies with  other vaccines using the same Ad26 platform as well as post-marketing 
cases occurring within  a month  after vaccination reporting  
a.  Thrombosis (any); 
b.  thrombosis (any) and concomitant thrombocytopenia/low platelet count; 
c. 
thrombocytopenia/low platelet count regardless of symptoms ; 
The presentation should include concomitant  disease and medications, COVID-19-testing, time 
to onset, clinical course and outcome and diagnostic work-up, as available. 
5.  Discussion on potential  causal relationship between vaccination with  Covid-19 vaccine Janssen 
and the events of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia , addressing possible mechanisms. This 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 14/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should include any support from non-clinical data and address any potential  role of the 
adenoviral gene transfer vector. 
6.  The MAH view on whether the current data warrant for further updates of the product 
information as well  as if there is a need for additional  risk minimisation measures. [to be 
adapted depending on proposed option below]. 
7.  The MAH is asked to address how this  issue can be further studied  both in the  non-clinical and 
clinical setting.   
Regarding the next steps and timelines; there are different options such as:  
-  During the PRAC April Meeting, agree a short warning statement (SmPC section 4.4,  and 
section 2 of the package leaflet) describing the observed cases, and include advice to 
prescribers and vaccinated individuals. Adopt the  above questions and continue the  signal 
procedure, possibly by further conclusions at the  PRAC meeting in May . A draft wording for 
section 4.4 is given below.  
-  Adopt the above questions during the PRAC meeting in  April, and ask the  MAH to respond 
promptly, to allow for further PRAC discussion on approximately 15 April or at PRAC ORGAM on 
22 April with  the aim to agree preliminary conclusions, including  potential  label updates.  
Draft proposal for section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders  
A combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia has been observed very rarely following 
vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral 
venous sinus thrombosis, and fatal outcome. The majority of these cases occurred within  the first two 
to three weeks following vaccination.   
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism  and or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, persistent abdominal pain 
following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological symptoms including  severe or persistent 
headaches or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond the 
site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.   
Package leaflet – to be updated accordingly.  
2.4.  Comments from other PRAC members  
Please find here below comments from a member state regarding this  signal assessment report on 
Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) in association with  COVID -19 Janssen Vaccine (Ad26.COV2-S 
[recombinant]) (EPITT 19689). 
In order to have the  same level of information in the Signal assessment report on embolic and 
thrombotic events (SMQ) with  COVID-19 Vaccine, Janssen could be asked to provide the same 
scientific reflections/discussions on the non-clinical data as those asked for Vaxzevria. This would allow 
to study the mechanistic aspect in a more extensive way. 
Proposal for new pre-clinical studies after assessment of the  possible mechanistic explanations The 
MAH  should address the following: 
[...] 
5. Discussion on potential  causal relationship between vaccination with  Covid -19 vaccine Janssen and 
the events of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, addressing possible mechanisms. This should include 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 15/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
any support  from non-clinical data and address any potential  role of the adenoviral gene transfer 
vector. 
- The MAH should propose a study to test  in-vitro expression of the S protein of Janssen vaccine (these 
are already available for the  other already authorised SARS -CoV-2 vaccines with a different S protein 
without  showing concerns). 
- The MAH should consider to perform in-vitro study to test the  interaction of the Janssen vaccine with 
blood components (i.e. thrombocytes, erythrocytes, leucocytes etc., coagulation factors, natural IgM 
antibodies) both in the  presence and absence of pre-existing immunity  to recombinant, replication-
incompetent adenovirus type 26 (Ad26) vector. 
- The MAH should consider collecting more extensive non-clinical data namely but not  limited to animal 
models. The MAH  should provide further animal data namely on Ad26 vector. The potential  effects of 
Ad26 vector to human should also be addressed. 
- The MAH should propose further studies to elucidate the role of the  spike antigen in these events 
specifically whether the Spike protein is antigenic (i.e. taking the  role of heparin and binding with 
platelet factor 4). 
- The MAH should propose any further non-clinical studies aimed at elucidating  the mechanism that 
trigger platelet activation and subsequent thrombotic effects. 
PRAC rapporteur comments; these comments have been taken into account in the updated LoQ.   
Late breaking information submitted to EMA 
Within  the  context  of the  oral explanation that  was provided by  Janssen -Cilag International  NV  to  the 
PRAC on the 7th April 2021, the MAH referred to a case of cerebral thrombosis. Of note , the MAH specified 
that  the  case was subject to  limited  information and  that  at  that  point  it  had not  yet  been adjudicated 
as to whether the cerebral thrombosis concerned arterial or veno us thrombosis. They also specified that 
no information regarding platelet count  had been received. 
On the 8th of April, the  MAH sent a CIOMS form concerning the  case in question.  
A description of the case is provided below: 
Case  concerns  a  female  patient  between  the  ages  of  18-28  from  the  which  was  received  from  a 
pharmacist.  The  patient  had  no  known  allergies,  was  a  non -smoker,  was  not  on  any  concomitant 
medications including combined oral contraceptives, had no medical history or familial  history of clotting 
disorders. Sixteen days after vaccination she developed headache, vomiting and mental status changes. 
Her family noted she was “staring” or “spacey”. She was brought to the hospital where MRI and CT scan 
of  the  brain  revealed sagittal  sinus  thrombosis  and  haemorrhage. She  was  admitted  to  ICU.  Platelet 
count  on  presentation  was  18,000  (units  not  specified),  fibrinogen  was  noted  to  be  low  and  fibrin  D -
dimer  was  elevated.  Platelet  count  remains  at  22,000  to  24,000.  Sixteen  days  after  vaccination,  the 
patient developed seizures, was intubated, sedated and placed on unspecified anti -epileptic drugs (AEDs). 
She  was  treated  according  to  the  “British  Guidelines”,  was  given  a  platelet  transfusion  in  advance  of 
thrombectomy and was anticoagulated (specific agent not provided). Following  platelet transfusion and 
thrombectomy, the  patient’s platelet  count  rose to  160,000,  fibrinogen  normalised, and both  remained 
stable for  1-2  days. Treatment with  un-specified AEDs  was continued.  The  patient  remained intubated 
and sedated and thus her mental and neurologic status  was not re -evaluated. At  the time of the  report 
it  was  noted that  the  patient  had recovered from thrombocytopenia, but  the outcome  of sagittal sinus 
thrombosis, cerebral haemorrhage and seizures was not reported.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 16/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC rapporteur comments; this is another case with  an unusual clinical picture of a serious sagittal 
sinus thrombosis, in combination with  thrombocytopenia, occurring in  a health y young woman, about 2 
weeks  after  vaccination.  This  case strengthens  the  current  signal  in  need  of  further  prompt  in  depth 
review.   
2.5.  Adopted PRAC recommendation 
Having considered the available evidence from both  spontaneous reports and clinical trials, the  PRAC 
has agreed that at this  stage, there is insufficient  evidence to warrant an update to  the product 
information. Nevertheless, there are a number of issues in relation to  thrombotic and embolic  events 
that  need further review, and therefore the signal procedure should proceed.  
The MAH for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) is therefore requested to 
submit, ,  responses to the  following list of questions: 
- 
- 
- 
The cumulative post-marketing exposure, stratified by age, if feasible. 
Presentation of retrieved laboratory values on complete blood counts  including, but  not limited 
to, platelets, anti-platelet  factor 4 antibodies, fibrinogen, ADAMTS13, anti-phospholipid 
antibodies and D-dimer, for cases with venous or arterial thrombosis in all clinical studies with 
the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen.  
Presentation of retrieved laboratory values on complete blood counts  including, but  not limited 
to platelets, anti-platelet  factor 4 antibodies for cases of haemorrhage in all clinical studies with 
the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen. 
-  A detailed cumulative review of cases observed in clinical studies with i)  the Covid-19 vaccine 
Janssen; ii) other vaccines using the same Ad26 platform; as well as of iii) cases originating 
from the  post-marketing setting  of  
a.  thrombosis (any);  
b.  thrombosis (any) and concomitant thrombocytopenia/low platelet count;   
c. 
thrombocytopenia/low platelet count regardless of symptoms ; 
The presentation should include all available information regarding concomitant  disease and 
medications, COVID-19 testing,  time to onset, clinical course and outcome and diagnostic work -up, as 
available. Full  case narratives should also be provided.  
-  Observed to expected analyses of cases of  
a.  Cerebral venous thrombosis without  thrombocytopenia (i.e. using all relevant PTs such 
as cerebral venous thrombosis, superior sagittal  sinus thrombosis, transverse sinus 
thrombosis, aseptic cavernous sinus thrombosis, cerebral venous thrombosis  and also 
events of cerebral thrombosis that are adjudicated to be related to  venous 
thrombosis), also stratified by age bands (i.e. 10  years) should be provided. 
Background rates for events of CVST without  thrombocytopenia should be used within 
the analysis. 
b.  Cerebral venous thrombosis with thrombocytopenia (i.e. using all relevant PTs such as 
cerebral venous thrombosis, superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, transverse sinus 
thrombosis, aseptic cavernous sinus thrombosis, cerebral venous thrombosis and also 
events of cerebral thrombosis that are adjudicated to be related to  venous 
thrombosis), also stratified by age bands (i.e.10  years), should be provided. 
Background rates for CVST with  thrombocytopenia should be used within  the  analysis.  
-  Discussion on potential  causal relationship between vaccination with  Covid -19 vaccine Janssen 
and the events of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, addressing possible pathophysiological 
mechanism, including  potential for platelet activation. This should include all relevant non -
clinical data and clinical data and address any potential role of the adenoviral gene transfer 
vector. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 17/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
The MAH is asked to discuss how, beyond the  already agreed studies in  the PhV plan, the 
important potential  risk venous thromboembolism, including the  potential occurrence of the 
combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia can be further studied. Ways of gaining 
further mechanistic data, both non-clinical and clinical, regarding potential  interactions of the 
Covid-19 vaccine Janssen and the coagulation system should specifically be addressed; and the 
following commented:  
-  Study the in-vitro expression of the  spike protein of the Janssen Covid-19 vaccine, and the 
relative proportions of the  spike protein expressed in the  pre -fusion and post-fusion state after 
administration of the vaccine.  
-  Study the interaction of the Janssen Covid-19 vaccine with  blood components such as 
thrombocytes, erythrocytes, leucocytes etc., as well as coagulation factors, natural IgM 
antibodies; both in the  presence and absence of pre -existing immunity  to recombinant, 
replication-incompetent adenovirus type 26 (Ad26) vector.  
-  Discuss how additional  non-clinical as well as human studies can provide further data regarding 
potential effects of the i) Ad26 vector; ii) the  spike protein on the coagulation system, 
including potential  triggers of platelet activation and subsequent thrombotic effects . This 
should include addressing whether the Ad26 vector may active platelets via interaction with  the 
cell adhesion molecule CAR (i.e. coxsackie and adenovirus receptors), or affect the structure of 
PF4. 
- 
For on-going clinical studies, should cases of thrombocytopenia and/or thrombosis occur, a 
thorough laboratory testing  should be performed including,  but not limited  to: complete blood 
count incl platelets,  haemolysis parameters, D -dimer, fibrinogen, PTT, PT/INR, antiphospholipid 
antibodies and anti-PF4  antibodies.  
-  Considering the  findings of the review, the MAH  should discuss the  need for amendment to  the 
Product Information and/or Risk management plan, for the  latter, including, but  not limited to, 
the list  of safety concerns and studies specified within  the pharmacovigilance plan .  
The PRAC will perform the assessment within  a 30-day timeframe.  
3.  Additional evidence  
3.1.  Assessment of additional data  
On 15 April 2021, the  MAH submitted  responses to Question 1-8 outlined above. Furthermore, on 15 
April 2021, the PRAC Rapporteur has received Eudra Vigilance data and analyses from the EMA.  The 
latter was updated on 17 April 2021.  
The PRAC Rapporteur assessment to be sent to the PRAC on 19  April 2021,  is the first step in the 
further evaluation of this  signal. As agreed with  the EMA on 15 April  2021,  the aim of this  first step is 
to review of cases of unusual thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia, and taking experience 
gained from a recently finalised signal evaluation2, and based on that,  evaluate the need for updates of 
2 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/prac-recommendation/signal-assessment-report-embolic-thrombotic-events-
smq-covid-19-vaccine-chadox1-s-recombinant_en.pdf 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 18/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the product information, as well as the  need for additional risk minimisation measures. For the AR to 
be sent out on 19 April, 17 April 2021 is the  cut-off for new data. 
A more in-depth evaluation of any mechanistic aspects, as well as of the  pharmacovigilance plan, and  
thereby the  responses to Q7, will be undertaken in the second step of the  assessment of the  MAH 
responses. In addition, review of laboratory results from clinical studies and post-marketing on 
conditions not  predominantly related to  the combination of thr ombosis and thrombocytopenia will be 
assessed in more depth in the  second step as well.   
A timeline for that  second step is to be finally agreed, but tentatively planned for the PRAC meeting in 
May 2021. 
3.1.1.  MAH response as of 15th April 2021 
The safety databases (A) used to identify reports of thrombotic or thromboembolic events with 
concurrent thrombocytopenia, the search criteria used (B), and laboratory results (C) were:  
Safety  Databases: 
Ad26.COV2.S Clinical Database. This contains safety data (including  both nonserious adverse events 
[AEs] and serious adverse events [SAEs]) from all ongoing and completed COVID -19 vaccine Janssen 
Ad26.COV2.S Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies, including   VAC31518COV1001, hereby 
referred to as COV1001; VAC31518COV1002, hereby referred to as COV1002; VAC31518COV2001, 
hereby referred to as COV2001; VAC31518COV3001, hereby referred to as COV3001,  and 
VAC31518COV3009, hereby referred to as COV3009. 
Ad26 Platform Clinical Database. The MAH’s  clinical AdVac® integrated safety database report (V6.0, 
version of 28 March 2021,  cut-off date 31 December 2020) describes integrated safety data from 32  
completed clinical studies using  Ad26-based vaccines: Ad26.ZEBOV (Ebola program; 10 studies), 
Ad26.ENVA.01, Ad26.Mos.HIV,  and Ad26.Mos4.HIV (human immunodeficiency virus [HIV] program; 8 
studies), Ad26.CS.01 (malaria program; 1 study), Ad26.RSV.FA2 and Ad26.RSV.preF (respiratory 
syncytial virus [RSV] program; 10 studies), and Ad26.Filo (filovirus program; 1 study), and 
Ad26.HPV16 and Ad26.HPV18 (human  papillomavirus [HPV] program; 1 study). 
Global Medical Safety Database. This contains  all reports of SAEs from Ad26.COV2.S clinical studies 
conducted by Janssen, as well as spontaneous post-marketing reports of both nonserious AEs and 
SAEs: 
Study VAC31518COV3012, hereby referred to as COV3012 Sisonke open -label single-arm Phase 3b 
implementation study to monitor the  effectiveness of the single -dose Ad26.COV2.S COVID-19 vaccine 
among health care workers in South Africa. This is a collaborative study, sponsored by the  South 
African Medical Research Council (SAMRC). SAEs only will  be captured. 
SAEs reported in collaborative studies and vaccination programs conducted with   Ad26.ZEBOV (Ebola 
program; 10 studies)  for which SAEs are followed in the GMS database. SAEs reported in these studies 
and programs will only appear in the GMS  Database. These include VAC52150EBL1005,  EBL1007, 
EBL2004,  EBL2006, EBL2007,  EBL2008,  EBL2009,  EBL3008, EBL3010  and EBL4002. 
The following trials/programs are conducted as a collaborative non-Janssen sponsored initiative: 
EBL1005:  Phase 1 Randomized, open-label trial conducted in healthy adults (18 to50  years of age) to 
assess the safety and reactogenicity of 2-dose vaccine regimens. Sponsor: Oxford Univers ity 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 19/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EBL1007:  Phase 1 Randomized, uncontrolled, double -blind trial  conducted in  healthy adults  (18 to 45 
years of age) to assess the safety and reactogenicity of 2-dose vaccine regimens and third  vaccination. 
Sponsor: National  Institute  of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) 
EBL1008:  A Systems Biology Phase 1 Evaluation of the Safety, Reactogenicity, and Immunogenicity of 
Chimpanzee Adenovirus Type 3- vectored Ebolavirus Zaire (ChAd3-EBO-Z) and Modified Vaccinia 
Ankara- vectored Multivalent  Filovirus (MVA-BN®-Filo)  Vaccine Candidates. Sponsor: NIAID  
EBL2004:  Phase 2 Randomized, placebo controlled, double -blind trial  conducted in  healthy adults  (≥18 
years), adolescents (12 to  17 years of age), and children in 2 age groups (1 to 11  years of age). To 
assess the safety and reactogenicity of 2-dose vaccine regimens; To compare the 2-dose vaccine 
regimen with  the matched placebo regimen for antibody response 3 months after randomization 
(approximately 28 days after Dose 2 vaccination). Sponsor: NIAID. 
EBL2006:  Phase 2 Open-label trial  in participants who received investigational Ebola vaccines (ChAd3 - 
EBO-Z, MVA-BN-Filo, MVA-EBO-Z, or Ad26.ZEBOV) administered in previous studies led by the Oxford 
Vaccine Center (EBL1001, EBL1004,  and EBL1005).  To assess the persi stence of humoral and cellular 
immunity against EBOV glycoprotein with  or without  a booster dose of Ad26.ZEBOV administered 2  to 
5 years after adenoviral and MVA-vectored Ebola vaccine schedules. Sponsor: Oxford University  
EBL2007:  Phase 2 Open-Label trial conducted in health care providers in the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo who are at risk of exposure to Ebola in the event of a future Ebola outbreak; To assess the 
immunogenicity and safety of a prophylactic vaccination by administration of the heterol ogous vaccine 
regimen. In addition,  after randomization (1:1) a booster of Ad26.ZEBOV will  be offered at respectively 
1 year or 2 years after the first dose. Sponsor: University of Antwerp/University of Kinshasa.  
EBL2008:  Phase 2 Open-label trial  conducted in  participants previously enrolled in the EBL2006  study 
led by IRESSEF and UOXF investigators. To assess humoral and cellular immunity  against EBOV 
glycoprotein at  1 year following a late booster dose of Ad26.ZEBOV administered 3  to 4 years after 
receiving heterologous Dose 1 or Dose 2 of ChAd3- EBO-Z /MVA–EBO-Z administered at Day 1 and 
Day 8. Sponsor: Oxford University 
EBL2009:  Phase 2 Non-randomized, uncontrolled, open-label trial in adult  health care or frontline 
workers to characterize the humoral immune response to  the Ebola surface glycoprotein (GP) and the 
persistence of antibodies after IM administration  of a 2-dose vaccine regimen. Sponsor: The London 
School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and Uganda Virus Research Institute.  
EBL3008:  Ongoing Phase 3 open-label trial  conducted in  nonrandomized Adults (≥18 years of age) and 
children (≥1 year of age) to  assess the 2-dose regimen for effectiveness and safety in the Democratic 
Republic of Congo during the ongoing Ebola outbreak. Sponsor: The London Sch ool of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine 
EBL3010:  Ongoing Phase 3 trial in healthy pregnant women (≥18 years of age) in  Rwanda to assess 
the 2-dose regimen for safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity. Partner: Emory University and 
Rwanda Institution 
EBL4002:  Ongoing open-label collaborative trial: Rwandan government-led Ebola vaccination campaign 
under conditional approval) UMURINZI. Ebola Vaccine Program Campaign in  Rwanda. Sponsor: Ministry 
of Health, Rwanda. 
It is important to  note that as many of the clinical studies are currently ongoing, the clinical database 
and the GMS database have not  been fully reconciled, hence the number of SAEs reported may differ 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 20/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
depending on the source. Whereas a search of the clinical database will provide information on both 
cases of nonserious AEs and SAEs, the GMS database will  only contain reports of SAEs.  
Post-marketing safety assessment of AEs spontaneously reported have well -known limitations  that 
often preclude an accurate and meaningful medical assessment,  including: insufficient case detail such 
as clinical course/laboratory data/ diagnostics, lack of medical accuracy due to non -health care 
provider reporters (e.g., consumers/patients), and an inability  to follow-up secondary to multiple 
factors such as contact details or reluctance by reporters to provide authorization or contacting the 
health care provider. Data obtained from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and CDC’s co -
managed US national Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS), which is th e principal source 
of spontaneously reported AEs, has an unspecified delay in data entry from time  of receipt by the  FDA, 
which in  turn delays visualization by the  company. Case details can only be obtained following Freedom 
of Information Act request by the  company and have an undefined time  period before being released).  
Search Criteria 
A comprehensive search was performed on the  Janssen's Global Medical Safety (GMS) Database and 
the Janssen Clinical Databases for adverse events of interest using the foll owing Standardised MedDRA 
Query (SMQ) version 23.1  broad search terms, where applicable (the clinical database and the GMS 
database have not  been fully reconciled, hence the number of SAEs reported may differ depending on 
the source. Whereas a search of the clinical database will  provide information on both cases of 
nonserious adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), the GMS database will only 
contain serious events (SAEs): 
The search was performed on the following  clinical trials databases , containing both serious adverse 
events (SAEs) and non-serious adverse events (AEs): 
The data lock points (DLP) used for the  searches performed in the different databases where the 
following: COV1001 (DLP 01 April 2021);  COV1002 (DLP 31  March 2021)  – Data are blinded;  
COV2001 (DLP 17 March 2021)  – Data are blinded; COV3001 (DLP 24  March 2021); COV3009 (DLP 01 
April 2021) – Data are blinded; The Ad26 Platform Clinical Database (AdVac report, Version 6.0, DLP 
31 December 2020). The post-marketing reports for Ad26.COV2.S had a DLP 09  April 2021.  EBL1007, 
EBL2004,  EBL2006, EBL2008,  EBL2007,  EBL2009,  EBL3008, EBL3010  and EBL4002  (DLP 09  April 
2021). 
Laboratory Results 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 21/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the clinical trials, analysis of blood count, including platelets was not  routinely perform ed, except in 
the phase 1 studies COV1001 (only abnormality flag, no actual values) and COV1002 where baseline 
and post-vaccination samples were collected for Laboratory assessments. Protocols do specify that 
abnormal laboratory values, when  available, are  reported as unsolicited  adverse events (AEs). Overall, 
in most cases of venous or arterial thrombosis (reported as AE or SAE) complete blood count including 
platelets is not be available. The MAH has contacted the study sites to retrieve possible individu al 
laboratory data from source document. Analysis of the  available data showed limited reports of 
thrombocytopenia and other coagulopathies. 
To address the important potential  risk of venous thromboembolism data generated in  COV2001 will be 
used to assess potential vaccine-induced anti phospholipid  syndrome and potential  vaccine -induced 
activation of coagulation in adults aged 18  to ≤55 years and adults aged ≥65 years. Protocol required 
haematology laboratory assessments include Lupus anticoagulants, Anti-β2  glycoprotein, Anti 
cardiolipin and D-dimer. Results of the  ongoing study COV2001 are expected to become available at 
the end of April 2021. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
The background data on safety databases, the search criteria used, and laboratory results are noted. 
QUESTION  1 
 The Cumulative  post-marketing exposure,  stratified by age,  if feasible. 
Janssen cumulative (US) post-marketing exposure according to the Center of Disease Control (CDC) as 
of the 15 April 2021, is a total  of 7,688,499  doses of the  COVID-19 vaccine Janssen. As of 12 April 
2021  (of a total  of 6,453,740  doses), it is estimated, that  approximately 66.5.% of recipients of the 
Janssen COVID-19 vaccine were in the 18  to 59 -year age group and approximately 33.5% of 
recipients were in the ≥60-year age group. Age group percentages are derived from the exposure 
numbers published daily by the CDC at https://covid.cdc.gov/coviddata -tracker/#vaccination-
demographic. 
The percentages are based on: 
Calculation of post-marketing exposure, stratified by age, according to the CDC is based on the  overall 
age group percentages across all COVID -19 vaccines authorized for us in the US, and therefore may 
not represent the  best current estimate of the actual age by distribution  for the COVID -19 vaccine 
Janssen. 
COVID-19 vaccine Janssen received Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for use in the  US on 27 
February 2021,  and vaccination of the US population initiated  on 08 March 2021.  As of 13 April 2021,  a 
total of approximately 2,489,153  individuals are within  the 21-day post vaccination period. The 
company estimates that  more than 100,000  individuals were being vaccinated each day in the  US with 
COVID-19 vaccine Janssen immediately prior to the pause initiated  on 13 April 2021. As of 12 April 
2021:  Janssen has 6 post-authorization cases of CVST (4  of 6 with  low platelets, 2 unknown)  with 6.8 
million individuals vaccinated. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 22/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The clinical study exposure is detailed in Table 1 below: 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 23/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 24/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3  relates to the Ad26 platform exposure data from all completed and ongoing clinical trials using 
Ad26-based vaccines excluding COVID-19 (see Table 1 for COVID-19). The table relates to the Ad26 
platform exposure data for the Janssen Collaborative Ebola studies, including  the Ebola vaccination 
campaign in  Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC -EB-001 / VAC52150EBL3008) and Rwandan 
government-led Ebola vaccination campaign under conditional approval (UMURINZI / 
VAC52150EBL4002)  with  cut-off dates for individual studies/programs provided, as listed in the GMS 
safety database. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
Regarding cumulative (US) post-marketing exposure, the MAH refers to the  Center of Disease Control 
(CDC), which reports a total  of 7,688,499  doses of the  COVID-19 vaccine Janssen being used as of 15 
April 2021.  
As of 12  April 2021  (of a total  of 6,453,740  doses), it  is estimated, that  approximately 66.5.%  of 
recipients of the  Janssen COVID-19 vaccine were in the 18 to 59  -year age group and approximately 
33.5%  of recipients were in the  ≥60-year age group. However, this estimation appears based on use 
of all vaccines, and is therefore uncertain.   
The MAH has also specified the approximate number of individuals being within  the 21 -day post 
vaccination period as of 13 April; namely 2,489,153  individuals. Although not entirely clear what is 
meant, review of the cumulative presentation above, this exact number of subjects appear to  have 
been vaccinated more than three weeks ago, and thus possibly having p ast the main risk window for 
this unusual  clinical event.  
By end of March 2021, the  clinical study exposure is estimated to about 286   000 subjects with  the 
Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen, and more than  200 000  individuals with the  Ad26 platform. However, it 
should be noted that the  vast majority of these data for the Covid -19 vaccine Janssen have not  yet 
been assessed by EMA. In the evaluation supporting the CMA on  11 March 2021,  approximately 27,200 
vaccinated subjects had been assessed in clinical studies for death and SAEs  3, and is thus  the most 
relevant clinical study safety database.  
QUESTION  2.  
Presentation  of retrieved  laboratory values  on complete blood counts including, but not 
limited to, platelets, anti-platelet  factor 4 antibodies, fibrinogen, ADAMTS13, anti -
phospholipid antibodies and D-dimer, for cases with venous or arterial thrombosis in all 
clinical studies with the  Covid-19 vaccine Janssen. 
In the clinical studies (COV1001, COV1002, COV2001, COV3001, COV3009), under the SMQ term 
“Embolic and thrombotic events”, the following events have been reported: 33 cases were reported 
among 22,218 (0.1%)  participants that  received Ad26COV2.S vaccine at the  5x1010 vp dose level. 1 
case was reported among 319 (0.3%)  participants that  received Ad26COV2.S vaccine at 1x1011 vp 
dose level. 26 cases were reported among 22,051  (0.1%)  participants that received placebo. 18 cases 
were reported among 25,537  (0.1%)  participants that  are blinded to treatment. Refer to Table 4 below 
for further details. Among those cases, the number of cases of venous or arterial thrombosis have 
been retrieved from the clinical trials and are summarized in Table 5.  
3 EPAR  for COVID-19  Vaccine Janssen, INN-Ad26.COV2-S,  recombinant (europa.eu) 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 25/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
For each study (COV1001,  COV1002, COV2001, COV3001, COV3009) the number of subjects with  an 
AE of Interest System Organ Class and Preferred Term are presented in the  Subject Listings  within  the 
Appendices. Table 5 provides the number of cases of embolic and thrombotic events of  interest. As 
already reported for the COV3001 clinical study results (the  main efficacy trial), there is a numerical 
imbalance for DVT cases with  the Ad26COV2.S vaccine (10  cases in the Ad26 5x1010 recipients, 1 
case in Ad26 1x1011  recipient, 2  cases that are still  blinded and 3 cases in the placebo arm). For 
CVST, there was no imbalance in terms of cases reported in the clinical trials. Nevertheless, as stated 
in answer to Question 8, venous thromboembolism (VTE) is considered an Important Potential Risk  for 
the EU-RMP,  and relevant events for VTE have been identified and are monitored as Adverse Events of 
Special Interest (AESI). Please refer also to Question 4 for further description of thrombosis events.  
Abbreviations: SOC=System Organ Class 
MeDRA version 23.1 
*Further details on the case of Venous Transverse Sinus Thrombosis and Cerebral Hemorrhage reported following administration of 
Ad26.COV2.S in COV3001. 
In most cases of venous or arterial thrombosis (reported as AE or SAE) complete blood  count including 
platelets is not available. The MAH  has contacted the study sites to  retrieve possibly individual 
laboratory data from source document. For  arterial and venous thrombosis cases, available data are 
presented and no conclusion can be drawn from the  limited available information. Finally, for studies 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 26/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COV1001 and COV1002 complete blood counts, including  platelets was performed at baseline and 
post-vaccination timepoints. For both  studies, only normal or abnormali ty status are collected for pre 
and post vaccination timepoints.  The results are available for study COV1001 and described below.  
Analysis of the laboratory assessments performed in the COV1001 clinical study revealed that there 
were no trends/abnormalities observed in platelet  numbers as compared to placebo at Day 8 (7 days 
post-dose 1) or at  Day 57 and Day 64 (post-dose 2). Similar there was no trend/abnormalities in  levels 
of activated partial thromboplastin  time or in prothrombin time (Table 4). It shou ld be noted that  these 
reported laboratory values are not reported as consequence of an adverse event but  are used to  see 
trends when comparing pre and post-vaccination timepoints.  Overall, there is no impact  of the vaccine 
on platelet counts: there was no notable change in platelets counts  observed at the post vaccination 
timepoints. 
Table 6: 
Laboratory results for subject in clinical trials COV1001, COV1002, COV2001, 
COV3001 for subjects with vein and arterial thrombotic events  
Study  Vaccine/ 
Placebo 
Risk 
period 
System Organ Class  Serious/ 
relatedness 
PCR 
positive  
AE onset/ end 
date 
Labs 
Age 
(years)/ 
Gender/ 
Race 
1001  Ad26.COV2.S 
1x10^11 
> 28  65-75/ 
M/ 
58-68/ 
M/ 
No 
NR 
Yes 
NR 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events /Vascular 
disorders / 
Deep vein thrombosis / 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBOSIS 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events /Nervous system 
disorders / 
Cerebral thrombosis / 
CEREBRAL 
THROMBOSIS 
Vascular disorders /Deep 
vein thrombosis /DEEP 
VEIN THROMBOSIS 
IN LOWER LEFT LEG 
52 
105 post-dose 2 
(161 post-dose 1) 
CIOMS form 
Pending 
0-28  50-60/ 
M/  
0-28  33-43/ 
M/  
Vascular disorders /Deep 
vein thrombosis /RIGHT 
LEG DEEP VEIN 
THROMBOSIS 
0-28  37-47/ 
M/    
Vascular disorders /Deep 
vein thrombosis /DEEP 
VEIN THROMBOSIS 
DVT & PE:  
-ongoing 
   PLT= 257 (RR 140-420)   PT normal    
INR=1.12 
   PT normal    INR=1    aPTT 31.4 (H) (RR 22.4-
29.3) 
  PLT=251 (RR 140-420)  D-dimer 5.55 (H) (RR 
0-0.5 mg/L) 
The PI directly informed me it was a placebo 
participant and thought it didn’t make sense to 
check the relevant labs. 
0-28  83-93/  
M    /  
Vascular disorders /Deep 
vein thrombosis /DEEP 
VEIN THROMBOSIS 
IN HEMORAL VEIN 
No 
0-28  35-45/ 
M/  
0-28  18-28/ 
M/  
Vascular disorders /Deep 
vein thrombosis /DEEP 
VEIN THROMBOSIS 
Nervous system 
disorders /Transverse 
sinus thrombosis 
/TRANSVERSE SINUS 
VENOUS 
THROMBOSIS 
PT/INR = normal = 11.3 sec/1.1      APTT 
=  normal = 23 sec  
Normal CBC = normal platelets =  204 x10^3/uL 
(RR 140-400), the WBC was elevated to 11.59 
x10^3/uL, with slight increase in IMM GRAN 
ABSOLUTE = 0.07 x10^3/uL and MONOCYTE 
ABSOLUTE COUNT = 1.24 x10^3/uL, and with 
low Mean Cell Hemoglobin Concentration 31.3 
g/dL 
CMP = all normal        Lactic acid = 0.8 mmol/L 
D-dimer and fibrinogen were not evaluated        
Follow up CBC  
CBC is unremarkable, normal Platelets = 197 
x10^3/uL 
Pending 
CIOMS form 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 27/156 
1002  Blind 
3001 
3001 
3001 
3001 
3001 
3001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  Vaccine/ 
Placebo 
3001 
3001 
System Organ Class  Serious/ 
relatedness 
PCR 
positive  
AE onset/ end 
date 
Risk 
period 
Age 
(years)/ 
Gender/ 
Race 
0-28  56-66 
/M/  
Vascular disorders /Deep 
vein thrombosis /DEEP 
VEIN THROMBOSIS 
No 
(from RAVE) 
0-28  45-55/ 
M/  
Vascular disorders /Deep 
vein thrombosis /DEEP 
VEIN THROMBOSIS 
3009  Blinded 
54-64 
M 
3009  Blinded 
3009  Blinded 
3009  Blinded 
3009  Blinded 
3009  Blinded 
3009  Blinded 
65-75 
F 
46-56 
F 
31-41 
F 
78-88 
M 
46-56 
M 
46-56 
M 
3009  Blinded 
72-82 
M 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events 
Vascular disorders 
Peripheral artery 
thrombosis 
THROMBOSIS 
ARTERIO FEMORALIS 
SUPERFICIALIS 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events 
Nervous system disorders 
Cerebrovascular accident 
THROMBO-
VASCULAR CVA 
RIGHT 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Pulmonary embolism 
SUSPICION OF 
PULMONARY 
THROMBOEMBOLISM 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events 
Vascular disorders 
Deep vein thrombosis 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBOSIS 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Pulmonary embolism 
PULMONARY 
EMBOLISM 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events 
Vascular disorders 
Deep vein thrombosis 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBOSIS 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Pulmonary embolism 
PULMONARY 
EMBOLISM 
Embolic and thrombotic 
events 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Pulmonary embolism 
PULMONARY 
EMBOLISM 
Labs 
 (this seems to be the admission date, as per the 
attached medical records) 
PLT 141 (L) (RR not known)   PT 24.6 (H)    INR 
2.1 (H) 
See attachment for full details. 
Pending 
No local lab results for the platelets and 
coagulation parameters were obtained 
No local lab results for the platelets and 
coagulation parameters were obtained 
Platelets was 203x10E3/ml (normal 150-370),  
D-dimer 350 ng/ml (normal 0-500);  
PT 10.6 sec;  
INR 1.0;  
Fibrinogen 660 mg/dl (normal 150 – 450);  
antibiotic was initiated with cephalin 
Pending 
Pending 
Pending 
The Study Coordinator said that since the subject 
only went to the ER and the event was an AE, they 
had not requested medical records and do not have 
the local lab results for the platelets and 
coagulation parameters (PT/PTT, bleeding time 
etc.). The study coordinator has requested the 
records right after her conversation with the CRA 
and will send us any updated information once 
received. 
Pending 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 28/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
There are some issues with  regards to the presentation of data that hamper further assessment of the 
cases with  venous or arterial thrombosis in the clinical studies with  the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen.  
In Table 5 above, there were 13  subjects with  thromboembolic AEs of interest in the Ad26COV2.S 
vaccine group, including various venous thromboses and peripheral artery thrombosis in study 3001; 
apparently, there were 19  additional cases reporting embolic and thrombotic events in the 
Ad26COV2.S group in study 3001  based on Table 4;  for completeness, the  MAH should summarize the 
main reasons for not  including the additional cases among AEs of interest ( RSI).  Also, only 8 cases 
with  thromboembolic events are included in Table 6,  and there is one case apparently missing from the 
summary in Table 5 (according to table 6,  there is one case report of a  65-75  year-old female with 
cerebrovascular accident, with no lab results). 
In table 6, laboratory results for 18 subjects in the  clinical trials with  vein and arterial thrombotic 
events are presented: for the majority of cases, however, no such data are available. For 2 cases, 
there is no summary of relevant laboratory data but  only a reference to appended CIOMS forms. In 
four additional subjects, laboratory values are reported. Notably, for any patient  diagnosed with  any 
thromboembolic event, collection of lab tests  including platelets is expected.  It is unclear if the cases in 
table 6 pertain to those who received the Ad26COV2.S vaccine only (for all cases in study 3001,  these 
data are not included in  this table although that  study has been unblinded).   
For 3 of the 4 cases with  laboratory values reported, platelet  counts were normal. However, there is 
one additional case with  concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia in Table 6:  a male between 
the ages of 56-66  who presented with  thrombocytopenia (platelet  levels 141) 15  days after 
vaccination; he was hospitalised 21 days after vaccination with deep vein thrombosis. Based on 
additional values, it  is possible that  this patient  was treated with  a vitamin K antagonist (INR  was 2.1) 
unless he had severe co-morbidities such as liver failure (which could potentially also cause 
thrombocytopenia) or severe dietary vitamin K insufficiency . No CIOMS-report has been provided; 
based on the very short narrative of this case, reported co -morbidities included obesity and 
depression, and he received the Ad26COV2.S  vaccine (i.e. not placebo). There are no lab tests at all in 
the narrative for this case, however, it is stated that  the patient was treated with  rivaroxaban following 
his DVT; since rivaroxaban would not  be used in patients  with severe liver failure, the  INR value is 
assumed to be related to anticoagulant therapy at the time of his thrombosis.  
This case should obviously have been presented within  the case reports of concomitant thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia in  the clinical trials, regardless of concomitant disease and treatment. Such case 
reports have been requested several times from the  MAH. Notably, should this  case pertain to venous 
thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia in a patient treated with  therapeutic anticoagulation, this  is  
remarkable and should likely have prompted further medical attention;  lab values should likely be 
available. In table 6, the MAH  refers to an attachment which has not been found. Full  details on this 
case including  complete CIOMS report should be provided (immediate  RSI). 
Questions were raised regarding laboratory results from clinical studies and from post-marketing data, 
regarding e.g. thrombocytopenia. Further data presentation is asked for to allow final assessment of 
whether thrombocytopenia without  thrombosis or bleeding, may be caused by the Covid-19 vaccine 
Janssen (RSI). 
QUESTION  3  
Presentation  of retrieved  laboratory values  on complete blood counts including, but not 
limited to platelets,  anti-platelet  factor 4 antibodies for cases of haemorrhage  in all clini cal 
studies with the  Covid-19 vaccine Janssen. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 29/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the clinical trials (COV1001, COV1002, COV2001, COV3001, COV3009), under the SMQ term 
“Haemorrhages”, the following events have been reported: 36 cases were reported among 22,218 
(0.2%)  participants that  received Ad26COV2.S vaccine at the  5x1010 vp dose level. 9 cases were 
reported among 319 (2.8%)  participants that  received Ad26COV2.S vaccine at 1x1011 vp dose level . 
53 cases were reported among 22,051  (0.2%)  participants that  received placebo . 35 cases were 
reported among 25,537  (0.1%) participants  that are blinded to  treatment. Among those cases, the 
cases of interest (Cerebral haemorrhage, Haematemesis, Haematochezia,  Haematuria, Haemoptysis, 
Haemorrhoidal haemorrhage, Subarachnoid haemorrhage) have been  retrieved from the  clinical trials 
and are summarized in Table 7. Further information on all haemorrhage cases is provided in  the 
Appendices. From this,  it can be concluded that  there are no imbalances in number of haemorrhage 
cases when comparing vaccine versus placebo group. 
Laboratory values for cases of hemorrhagic (i.e., bleeding) events reported for the COVID -19 vaccine 
Janssen in  clinical trials: 
Reviewing all AEs and SAEs cases that  were reported in the  clinical trials databases, limited data is  
available for blood laboratory results: 
COV1001: Subject reported hemoptysis and hematuira had no abnormal laboratory results. Subject 
(COV1001) that  reported Vaginal hemorrhage (mild vaginal bleeding (spotting))  reported normal 
laboratory results. 
COV1002: no event reported. 
COV2001: 10 events reported: no laboratory data pertaining to blood counts  
COV3001: for those cases reported, no laboratory data pertaining to blood counts have  been reported 
except for the case described here below (study pause case) 
Subject: male subject between the ages of 18-28   with cerebral hemorrhage (18 days postvaccination) 
- lowest platelet count  of 64,000/Ul; 
no other laboratory data has been reported in conjunction with  hemorrhagic events  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 30/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COV3009: no laboratory data has been reported in conjunction  with hemorrhagic events.  In addition, 
haemorrhage cases (SAEs) were also retrieved from the GMS safety database, to  evaluate whether 
additional laboratory data was reported in the CIOMS forms. A total of 22  subject cases with  23 SAEs 
were reported in clinical studies. These are listed in  Table 9 by preferred term  (PT) and case count. 
Only 9 SAEs haemorrhage cases (8 cases in COV3001 and 1 case in COV3009) included blood  count 
laboratory data, of which only 3 cases were reported within  28  days of receipt of the vaccine. Of those 
cases for which complete laboratory blood count values were provided, only 2 cases  exhibited 
thrombocytopenia: 
COV3001: Subject 3, a male between the age of 18-28  with  cerebral hemorrhage (18 days post-
vaccination) - lowest platelet count of 64,000/uL.  Further  details on the case of CVST (Transverse 
Sinus Venous Thrombosis and Cerebral Hemorrhage) reported following administration  of Ad26.COV2.S 
in COV3001 can be found in  the programmed case narratives and attached CIOMS form. 
COV3001: subject 4, a female between the ages of 18-28  with immune thrombocytopenia (76 days 
post-vaccination) - lowest platelet count of 6x109/L 
None of the cases with  CBC information had baseline values prior to v accination. Also, majority of the 
available CBC laboratory values did not  have normal reference ranges precluding adequate  medical 
assessment. 
Information from the 9 cases of serious hemorrhagic events with  the COVID -19 vaccine Janssen 
reported in clinical trials are presented in Table 10  below. Given the limited information available, no 
conclusions can be drawn at this time.  Detailed information is provided for all cases observed in clinical 
trials with  the COVID-19 vaccine Janssen. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 31/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10:  Cases of Serious Hemorrhagic Events with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Reported in Clinical 
Case type 
Trials, for which Complete Blood Counts are Available 
Age  Gender 
Available laboratory values on complete blood count 
Bleeding Reported 
Adverse Event Preferred 
Term 
Time to 
onset from 
vaccination 
date 
study COV3001 
75-85  Male 
HEMOGLOBIN 
DECREASED 
97 days 
Hgb 7 in ER (narrative); Hgb of 8.6 is listed in the adverse event 
report; reference ranges not reported. 
Platelet count on hospitalization 64,000, white blood cell count 12.4, 
haemoglobin 12.7 and haematocrit 36.1 (units and normal ranges 
were not provided) The next day platelet count was 60 x10e3/uL, 
increased to 110 x10^3 several hours later, no Hgb/Hct reported. 
Peripheral blood smear showed neutrophilic leucocytosis, no blasts 
were identified, red blood cell count and morphology were within 
normal limits and thrombocytopenia with rare large platelet forms 
were seen. 
WBC - 9.2x10^3/uL at discharge, Plt 334x10^3/uL after discharge,  
Hgb - 11gm/dl after discharge 
study COV3001 
18-28  Male 
study  
64-74  Male 
study COV3001 
65-75  Male 
CEREBRAL 
HAEMORRHAGE 
GASTROINTESTINAL 
HEMORRHAGE 
GASTROINTESTINAL 
HEMORRHAGE 
18 DAYS 
2 days 
Haemoglobin was 7.2 (NR not provided).  
13 days 
Haemoglobin was 6.2 g/dl (NR: not reported) 
study  
58-68  Male 
SUBARACHNOID 
HEMORRHAGE 
34 days 
Haematocrit was 37 (units unspecified), Haemoglobin was 13 (units 
unspecified), Lymphocytes was 602 (units unspecified), Mean 
corpuscular volume was 92 (units unspecified), Neutrophils was 
6880 (units unspecified), Platelet count was 166000 (units 
unspecified), 
study COV3001 
43-53 
Female 
study COV3001 
18-28 
Female 
LOWER 
GASTROINTESTINAL 
HEMORRHAGE 
IMMUNE 
THROMBOCYTOPENIA 
19 days 
76 days 
CBC showed white blood cell count 7.5, haemoglobin 11.8, 
haematocrit 11.8, and platelet count 208 (unit and reference range 
were not provided). haemoglobin 9.2 on admission (units and 
reference range not provided). 
Platelet count was 6 x 10*9/L (NR: 186 - 454), increasing to 
223x10^9/L  
study COV3001 
18-28 
Female 
CEREBRAL 
HEMORRHAGE 
64 days 
WBC (reference range: 4100-10900) 6960/mm3, haemoglobin 
(reference range: 11.6-15.7) 13.9 g/dL, platelet count (referenced 
range:140000-440000) 289000/mm3.  
40-50 
study COV3001 
* Further details on the case of (CVST) Venous Transverse Sinus Thrombosis and Cerebral Haemorrhage reported 
following administration of Ad26.COV2.S in COV3001 can be found in the attached CIOMS I form. 
40 days 
Female 
ANASTOMOTIC 
ULCER HEMORRHAGE 
Haematocrit (NR: not provided) 30.2 %, and Haemoglobin (NR: not 
provided) 10.5 g/dL. 
 haematocrit 37.1 %, and haemoglobin 13.3 g/dL. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
There is no imbalance for cases of haemorrhages in the clinical COVID -19 vaccine Janssen (in total  45 
cases for participants that received Ad26COV2.S vaccine, 53  cases for placebo; however, for 35 
additional cases, treatment remains blinded). 
Data on laboratory values are missing for the majority of these cases. There are two cases with 
thrombocytopenia in  study 3001; male subject between the  ages of 18-28 with  concomitant 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (further discussed below) and one female with immune 
thrombocytopenia 76  days post-vaccination. 
Questions were raised regarding laboratory results from clinical stud ies and from post-marketing data, 
regarding e.g. thrombocytopenia. Further data presentation is asked for to allow final assessment of 
whether thrombocytopenia without  thrombosis or bleeding, may be caused by the Covid -19 vaccine 
Janssen (RSI). 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 32/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QUESTION  4 
A detailed cumulative  review of cases observed in clinical studies with i) the  Covid -19 
vaccine Janssen;  ii) other vaccines using the same  Ad26 platform; as well as of iii) cases 
originating from the post-marketing  setting of 
a. thrombosis (any); 
b. thrombosis (any) and concomitant thrombocytopenia/low platelet  count; 
c. thrombocytopenia/low platelet count regardless of symptoms  
The presentation should include all available  information regarding concomitant disease and  
medications, COVID-19  testing, time to onset, clinical course and  outcome and diagnostic  
work-up, as available.  Full case narratives should also be provided.  
MAH  RESPONSE: 
Note for the reviewer 
The answer to this  question has been structured in the  following way:  
•  Section A, presents the thrombosis cases 
•  Section B, presents the thrombosis / thrombocytopenia case  
•  Section C, presents the thrombocytopenia cases  
Each of these sections has 5 subcategories that  present date derived from different sources  
•  A1, B1, C1 relate to the  Covid vaccine trials (COV1001, COV1002, COV2001, COV3001 and 
COV3009): AEs and SAEs 
•  A2, B2, C2 relate to Covid vaccine trial COV3012: SAEs, as this is a collaborative study  
•  A3, B3, C3 relate to Ad26 platform vaccine trials (excluding Covid trials): AEs and SAEs 
•  A4, B4, C4 relate to Ad26 platform collaborative trials: SAEs 
•  A5, B5, C5 relate to Post-marketing cases 
•  Section D presents narratives for the cases of thrombosis / thrombocytopenia  
•  Section E provides a summary statement 
For post-marketing cases, a cumulative review through  09 April 2021 of Janssen spontaneous cases 
with  the COVID-19 vaccine Janssen in the Global Medical Safety Database was performed for events 
using the below search criteria of: 
a.  SMQ: Embolic and thrombotic events 
b.  SMQ: Embolic and thrombotic events SMQ AND (SMQ Haematopoietic thrombocytopenia OR SMQ 
Thrombocytopenias) 
c.  SMQ: Haematopoietic thrombocytopenia OR Thrombocytopenias High Level Term (HLT)  
For the clinical trials, please refer to the  background section fo r search criteria and DLP of clinical 
databases. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 33/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Narratives for all known reported cases, as of 12 April 2021,  of thrombosis and concomitant 
thrombocytopenia/low platelet count are provided below, followed by the detailed answers to the 
question. 
Case  Narratives  of thrombosis (any) and concomitant thrombocytopenia/low platelet  count  
Of the 6 total  cases contained in  the GMS Safety Database, that had Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis 
(CVST), one was from a clinical trial (see below). 
Case 1)  
Clinical trial case on active treatment: a male subject between the ages of 18-28  experienced 
transverse sinus thrombosis with  secondary cerebral haemorrhage on Day 19 after receiving a single 
dose of blinded study vaccine (Day 1) for prevention of SARS -CoV-2 virus infection. After experiencing 
flulike illness starting  Day 9, the subject was hospitalized on Day 19 following a tonic -clonic seizure. 
Upon hospitalization,  his platelet count was 64,000  with a nadir of 60,000.  Upon discharge his platelet 
count was normal at 334. Of note, pre-vaccination his HEP-IND  Thrombocytopenia PF4 Antibodies, IgG 
were negative, and post-vaccination, were elevated at 2.137  OD (reference interval ≤0.399). 
The remaining 5 case summaries (all from spontaneous sources) are provided below:   
Case 1): 
A woman between the ages of 38-48 with  a history of depression on concomitant fluoxetine, 
experienced a headache 1 week after vaccination and subsequent left sided weakness, dry heaves, 
worsening headache who developed “cortical vein thrombosis” invol ving the right  transverse and 
sigmoid sinus, tentorial herniation, massive intracerebral haemorrhage, and thrombocytopenia (values 
not provided) resulting in death 12 days after vaccination. 
Case 3):  
A female between the ages of 18-28 who  experienced a sagittal sinus thrombosis with  cerebral 
haemorrhage 16 days following COVID-19 vaccine Ad26.COV2.S. Platelet count on presentation was 
18,000  (units unspecified), fibrinogen was noted to be low (value not provided), fibrin D -dimer was 
elevated (specific levels not provided). The platelet counts remained 22 ,000  to 24,000.  The patient 
developed seizures, was intubated, sedated, and placed on unspecified anti -epileptics.  The patient  was 
treated using the “British guidelines”, was given a platelet  transfusion in  preparation for 
thrombectomy, and was anticoagulated (specific agents not  provided). Following  thrombectomy, the 
patient's platelet  count rose to 160,000,  fibrinogen normalized (value not provided), and both 
remained stable for 1-2  days. Treatment with  unspecified antiepileptics was continued. The patien t 
remained intubated  and sedated, and thus her mental and neurologic status  was not  re -evaluated. She 
has not yet recovered. Additional information has been requested.  
Case 4):  
This spontaneous report was received from physician via literature article: Gu ndabolu K, Kallam A, 
Muir K, Thrombotic Thrombocytopenia Following  Ad26.COV2.S Vaccination, New England Journal of 
Medicine, and describes a woman between the ages of 41-51  who developed splanchnic vein 
thrombosis, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST), hepatic vein thrombosis, splenic vein 
thrombosis, anaemia, DIC, haemorrhagic stroke, and thrombocytopenia (platelet nadir of 13,000)  14 
days following administration  of Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. Initial presentation also included 
hypofibrinogenemia and markedly elevated D-dimer. Anti-PF4/heparin antibody ELISA testing  was 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 34/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
strongly positive. The CVST progressed while on treatment with  heparin (before vaccination status  was 
known), with  secondary haemorrhagic stroke. 
Anticoagulation was switched to argatroban, and platelet count increased following treatment with 
intravenous immunoglobulin. 
Case 6):  
A female between the ages of 19-29 who  experienced portal vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism 
and cavernous sinus thrombosis one week after vaccination. Platelet count  was 120,000,  D -dimer was 
elevated (value not  reported), and fibrinogen was normal. The subject was initially  treated with 
heparin; antibodies to platelet factor 4  (PF4) were later noted to  be positive at 3.0 (reference range 
not provided). Heparin was stopped and intravenous immunoglobulin  (IVIG) was initiated, at which 
point the  platelet count had already increased. The subje ct is recovering. COVID-19 testing was 
reported to be negative..  
 Case 7):  
A 31-41 year old female was vaccinated with  the Janssen COVID -19 vaccine Ad26.COV2.S. It was 
noted that  the patient was “experiencing headaches 1 week ago” and had aphasia later i n the week. CT 
of the head without  contrast on showed parenchymal haemorrhage and persistent hyperdensity in  the 
left transverse sinus, consistent with  known venous sinus thrombosis being treated for the venous 
sinus thrombosis with  heparin. No platelet  counts were mentioned in the report.  
One additional spontaneous case of thrombosis (Deep Vein Thrombosis) also had a reported 
thrombocytopenia and is summarized below: 
This serious case concerns a female patient  from between the ages of 52-62.   
Concomitant medication included (levodopa/carbidopa), (formoterol/budesonide), (clonazepam), 
(citalopram), (lemborexant), (icosapent), (diclofenac), (sumatriptan), (ropinirole), (quetiapine), 
Celecoxib, Albuterol inhaler, Omeprazole, (levothyroxine), (hydrocodone), lo w dose aspirin. The report 
notes that  the patient had allergies to tetracycline and vortioxetine.  
The adverse event started on day 11. The patient  had 5 days of bruising and left leg swelling prior to 
presenting. She was found to have an extensive, occlusive deep vein thrombosis (DVT) of the left 
lower extremity as well as thrombocytopenia of 15,000  (units  not specified). She had an inferior vena 
cava (IVC) filter placed. The next day, the patient  began to have paraesthesia’s and discoloration of 
the right  lower extremity. Ultrasound showed high-grade occlusion of the right proximal, superficial 
femoral artery. The patient was pre-treated with platelets.  In addition  to the right superficial femoral 
artery (SFA) there is also thrombotic  occlusion of the bilateral iliacs. The patient  had bilateral 
thrombectomy and bilateral common iliac stent  placement. The following day she developed gross 
haematuria. At the time of the report, the  patient had not recovered from the event.   
Late  Breaking  Information:  
The MAH was informed by the US FDA of an additional case of a case of CVST involving a female 
patient between the  ages of 21-31. 
MAH  Summary:  
As of 14  April 2021,  there have been 6 reported cases of CVST from spontaneous sources. Of these, 5 
reported thrombocytopenia; 2 reported Anti-PF4  positive antibodies (both  of these patients  were 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 35/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treated with  heparin prior to the lab testing);  and 2 reported D -dimer elevation. In addition,  there was 
1 other case of thrombosis in combination with  low platelet count from a sp ontaneous source.  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
For the clinical trial case of CVST and thrombocytopenia, there have been several different CIOMS 
reports provided; one in which  thrombocytopenia was not mentioned and lab values of platelet levels 
were omitted;  one in  which the platelet levels with  thrombocytopenia as well as the result of the 
peripheral blood smear showing thrombocytopenia and the discharge diagnosis of thrombocytopenia 
were included; and finally one in which also anti-PF 4 antibodies are included (negative before 
vaccination; strongly positive during hospitalisation and rem aining positive more than one month after 
discharge). The test dates for the anti-PF  4-antibodies (September 2020, October 2020 and December 
2020,  respectively) indicate that  these results have been previously available to the investigator. The 
MAH  should clarify when these tests were actually performed, and when they became aware of the 
results (RSI). 
The cases with  concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia are further discussed in section 3.1.2 
below. 
Thrombosis (any) 
A.1 Clinical trials with  the COVID-19 vaccine Janssen: 
The search identified a total of 27 non-serious cases (AEs) in subjects aged between 38  and 90 years 
old. Out of the 27  AEs, 13  were associated with  the Ad26.COV2.S, 8  with the  placebo and 6 AEs are 
still  blinded. The AEs related to  Ad26.COV2.S and blinded group included deep vein thrombosis (N 
=10),  monoplegia (N=1),  pulmonary embolism (N =3),  thrombophlebitis (N=2),  trans ient ischaemic 
attack (N=1)  and venous thrombosis limb (N=1).  Time to  onset after vaccination varies between 2 and 
98 days. In 7  out of the 13 cases from the Ad26.COV2.S group the event occurred within  the first 28 
days. Only one case in the Ad26.COV2.S was reported as related: a male, between the ages of 45-55 
reported DVT 27  days post vaccination. 
The search identified a total of 55 serious adverse events (SAEs) in 14 female subjects aged between 
24 and 80 years-old and 14 males aged between 25 and 85 years-old. Out of the 55  SAEs, 22 were 
associated with  the Ad26.COV2.S, 19 with  the placebo and 14 SAEs are still blinded. The events 
reported in the  Ad26.COV2.S and blinded group included pulmonary embolism (N=9),  cerebrovascular 
accident (N=5),  deep vein thrombosis (N=3),  acute myocardial infarction and myocardial infarction 
(N=7),  transient ischaemic attack (N=3),  Ischemic stroke (N=2)  and 1 case of each for cerebral 
infarction, cerebral thrombosis, embolism venous, hemiparesis, retinal vein thrombosis, tra nsverse 
sinus thrombosis, and peripheral artery thrombosis. Time to onset after vaccination varies between 3 
and 108 days. In 6  out of the 22 cases from the Ad26.COV2.S group the event occurred within  the first 
28 days. From the 19 placebo cases, the  events reported included acute myocardial infarction and 
myocardial infarction (N=6),  cerebrovascular accident (N=3), deep vein thrombosis (N=2),  pulmonary 
embolism (N=2),  Transient ischaemic attack (N=2),  and 1 case of each for cerebral infarction, cerebral 
venous sinus thrombosis, carotid artery occlusion, and paraparesis. The investigator causality was not 
related for 54 out  of the  55 SAEs and related for 1 event of deep vein thrombosis in the placebo group.  
Further details on the cases reported in the Jansse n Ad26.COV2.S COVID-19 clinical trials (unblinded 
and blinded cases) can be found in the  detailed programmed case narratives . 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 36/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
From the clinical studies, there was a total  of 27 non-serious and 55 serious adverse events of 
thromboembolism in  subjects aged between 24  and 90 years  old. 
Out of the 27  non-serious AEs, 13 were associated with  the Ad26.COV2.S, 8 with  the placebo and 6 
AEs are still blinded. In 7 out  of the  13 cases from the  Ad26.COV2.S group the event occurred within 
the first 28  days. 
Out of the 55  serious AEs, 22  were associated with  the Ad26.COV2.S, 19 with  the placebo and 14 SAEs 
are still  blinded. In 6 out of the 22 cases from the Ad26.COV2.S group the event occurred within  the 
first 28 days.  
It is expected that  laboratory results for the cases with  thromboembolism in  the clinical studies are 
presented with  the next Response to RSI. 
A.2 COVID3012 SISONKE: 
A separate review of cases from clinical trial COV3012 Sisonke (Together):   
OPEN LABEL TRIAL Open-label, single-arm Phase 3b implementation study to monitor the effectiveness 
of the single-dose Ad26.COV2.S COVID-19 vaccine Janssen among health care workers in South Africa 
was performed as this  is a collaborative study with  the South Africa Health  Authority, and the serious 
cases are sent directly to Janssen for entry into the Global Medical Safety Database. The cumulative 
review through 09  April 2021  in the Global Medical Safety Database was performed There are 3 cases 
with  PTs reported in the SMQ: Embolic and thrombotic events.  
Recently Received Information: Per the monthly “4-Weekly* Abridged COVID-19 Interim Progress 
Report Form For Clinical Trials” received by the MAH  on 12 April 2021 from the South African Health 
Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) , there was 1 additional case of a CVA reported to the Health 
Authority, but  not yet received by the MAH). 
Of the 3 cases contained in the GMS Safety Database, 1 case reported Cerebrovascular accident (CVA) 
1 case reported Retinal vein occlusion and Retinal haemorrhage and 1 case reported Pulmonary 
embolism with  Cor pulmonale. Of note, there has been a second case of Pulmonary embolism recently 
received by the MAH  from SAHPRA. 
One case concerns a female aged between 29-39  who was hospitalized for CVA 8 days post 
vaccination. After vaccination the subject experienced moderate (unspecified) reactogenicity and 
returned back to work. Her first symptoms 8 days after vaccine administration were slurred speech,  
dizziness and collapse, and she was brought to the  hospital. Upon arrival she developed a seizure 
followed by left sided weakness. Electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia,  chest x-ray was normal, 
and COVID-19 PCR test  was negative. Results of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 
echocardiogram are pending. The subject is receiving speech therapy and physiotherapy and improving 
remarkably. The event is resolving. 
Another case concerns a female subject aged between 58-68 with  a history of diabetes who 
experienced left retinal vein occlusion and macular haemorrhage 10 days after vaccine administration. 
After vaccination, the subject was “lethargic, sleepy, and flushed”. The next day she complained of 
myalgia, stiff  neck, and took acetaminophen. She felt  well for a week and on day 8 post vaccination 
experienced blurring of vision in the left eye and noted deterioration of vision with  progression of 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 37/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
blurring, which had worsened significantly  by the next day. On day 10 post vaccination, she was 
examined by an ophthalmologist  and noted to have blocked vessels, haemorrhage, and oedema of one 
eye. The patient has a history of elevated triglycerides with  the highest  noted at 2.0 mmol/L  (Normal - 
NR: 0.4  - 1.6) in 2017.  More recent labs from 13  days after vaccination showed  normal erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein. Haemoglobin, white  blood cell count, and platelet 
counts were 13.4 g/dL (NL:  12.1-16  .3),  6.54x10^9/L  (NL:  3.92 - 9.88),  and 290x10^9/L  (NL:  150-
450)  respectively. Triglycerides were 1.4 mmol/L,  and Hgb  A1C was 5.8%  (NL:  4.0-6.0).  The patient’s 
estimated glomerular filtration  rate (eGRF) was 58 ml/min (NL:  >90)  and has been in the range of 63 
to 69 since 2018.  Outcome of the events were not reported. 
A third case concerns a female subject aged between 57-67  who was hospitalized 17 days after 
vaccine administration for pulmonary embolism and cor pulmonale. Concomitant  medications included 
an unspecified statin  and fluoxetine. The subject developed sudden shortness of breath and mottled 
skin on legs; she was taken to  a hospital and was admitted to  the intensive care unit. Results of  
diagnostic tests included elevated D -dimer; computerized tomogram pulmonary  angiogram showed 
multiple bilateral pulmonary emboli and cor pulmonale; echocardiogram showed dilated right ventricle 
and atrium, severe tricuspid incompetence, hypokinetic intraventricular septum but  no thrombi. 
Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine showed scattered sclerotic areas. There was no finding  of 
deep vein thrombosis. No platelet counts or CBC were provided. The subject was discharged after 5 
days and is recovering. 
Another case concerns a female aged between 55-65  who experienced pulmonary embolus (fatal). The 
event occurred 23 days after vaccination COVID-19 vaccine Ad26.COV2.S was administered 
intramuscularly for the prevention of symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 virus infection. It  was reported that 
she was overweight with  a number of co-morbidities. 
On an unspecified date, the subject's SARS -CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test was negative. 
23 days post  vaccination, the subject experienced pulmonary embolus  (fatal).  Her body build was 
normal. Nutritional  status was good. External body examination: body examination revealed no  visible 
injuries. Main findings: pulmonary thrombus of the  pulmonary truncus with  congestion and oedema of 
the lungs. The rest of the organs and structures were all within   normal limits with  no injuries noted. 
Cause of death reported as natural causes: pulmonary embolus. Investigator's causality assessment: 
The event of pulmonary embolus was not related to  the study vaccine. 
Another case concerns a female aged between 38-48  who experienced a CVA less than  24 hours after 
vaccination. Further case details are pending.  
MAH  Conclusion: There were 5 cases of embolism/thrombosis from clinical trial VAC31518COV3012. 
A single case which reported haemorrhage in the eye had normal thrombocytes; in the 2 other cases  
without  bleeding thrombocyte counts  were not provided. COVID -19 was ruled out in  one case. Two 
cases of pulmonary embolism were confounded by a preceding distant  travel and co-morbidities.  
Of the 5 cases, for 1 case the causality to vaccine was considered unclassifiable, 1 case had 
indeterminate causal association and 1 case was considered inconsistent with  the ca usal association to 
immunization per the WHO causality classification for adverse events following  immunization.  The 
remaining 2 cases have not yet been assessed by the company  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
In the open-label, single-arm Phase 3b implementation study to  monitor the effectiveness of the 
single-dose Ad26.COV2.S COVID-19 vaccine Janssen among health care workers in South Africa, only 
serious cases have been provided. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 38/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the case with  cerebrovascular accident (CVA), this concerns a fe male aged between 29-39 with 
CVA 8 days following vaccination. COVID -19 PCR test was negative; no additional  laboratory test has 
been provided.  
For the case with  retinal vein occlusion and macular haemorrhage, this concerns a female aged 
between 58-68  with a history of diabetes who presented with  blurred vision 8 days post vaccination. 
Laboratory tests revealed normal platelet levels. 
For the first case with  pulmonary embolism, this  concerns a female aged between 57-67 who was 
hospitalized 17 days after vaccination, having travelled long distance the day before, and was 
diagnosed with  pulmonary embolism. No platelet counts have been provided.  
For the second case with  pulmonary embolism, this  was diagnosed post-mortem in a female aged 
between 56-66,  23 days after vaccination. There is one additional case of CVA within  24 hours of 
vaccination in a female aged between 38-48;  no further details have been provided. 
Based on the above, there are currently no case reports of concomitant thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia. Additional  information regarding platelet levels should be attempted to be provided 
for the cases with  CVA and the first case of pulmonary embolism (RSI). 
Ad26 Platform Data 
A search for reported cases of thromboembolic events using the search terms embolic and thrombotic 
of the AdVac platform safety database revealed the following cases (cut-off 31  December 2020). 
Table 11  includes all AEs identified, based on the  embolic and thrombotic events search criteria in 
studies integrated in the AdVac Safety Database V6.0. A total  of 8,826  participants in 32  studies were 
vaccinated with  at least one dose of an Ad26-based vaccine (hereafter also referred to as “Ad26 
recipients”) and 4,075 participants  received placebo.  
In total, 18  subjects (0.2%)  in the Ad26 vector-based vaccination group and 25 subjects (0.6%)  in the 
placebo group reported at least one embolic or thrombotic event following vaccination.  
Table 11:  Number of Subjects with  Unsolicited Adverse Events of Special Interest by SOC and PT; By 
Vaccination Group; Full  Analysis Set 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 39/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety laboratory values (platelet counts  a) were only available for five subjects for which 
thromboembolic events were reported. No abnormal platelet counts were reported postvaccination, 
with  the exception of one subject that had low platelet counts at  screening (114,000  cell/mm3). 
a *Laboratory parameter searches for abnormalities were as follow: Activated Partial Thromboplastin 
Time, Platelets 
Ad26.ZEBOV (Ebola) Collaborative Clinical Trials and Vaccination Programs  
The search identified 9 cases in subjects between 30 and 71 years old. A total  of 6 out of the 9 cases 
are still  blinded. The time to onset after first dose vaccination varies between 44 and 297 days. In one 
case associated with  exposure during pregnancy the time to onset was not reported. The reported 
events reported included: Cerebrovascular accidents (CVA, 6 cases including  one fatal case), ischemic 
stroke (1 fatal case), acute myocardial infarction and coronary artery disease and atherosclerosis (1 
fatal case), deep vein thrombosis (1 pregnancy case). All these cases were reported prior to the 
outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and therefore results of COVID -19 testing  is not available. Platelet 
counts were available in one case of CVA reported in  a fema le subject aged between 64-74, 207  days 
after vaccination. At the  time of the  event the subject had a normal platelet count  reported as “Mean 
platelet volume (NR:  8.3 - 12.1)  7.6 fL,  Platelet count  (NR: 156  - 342) 311  x10*9/L, Platelet-large cell 
ratio (NR: 25.30  - 53.80)  36.2%” 
In all the cases reported, the causality of the vaccine is unlikely because of long time to onset after 
vaccination and the  significant medical history or underlying conditions such as hypertension, elderly 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 40/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
age, underlying infections causing disseminated intravascular coagulation with  fatal outcome, or 
underlying pregnancy. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
No cases with  concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia have been identified in the Ad26 
platform data or the Ad26ZEBOV (Ebola) collaborative clinical trials and vaccination program. 
There was no increase in thromboembolic events in the Ad26 platform data: 8,826  participants in 32 
studies who were vaccinated with  at least one dose of an Ad26-based vaccine and 4,075  participants 
received placebo; 18 subjects (0.2%) in  the Ad26 vector -based vaccination group and 25 subjects 
(0.6%)  in the placebo group reported at least one embolic or thrombotic event following vaccination.  
Spontaneously reported cases with COVID-19  vaccine  Janssen (post-marketing)  – SMQ 
Embolic and Thrombotic events 
There are 27  spontaneous cases which  report preferred terms (PTs) meeting the search criteria of 
SMQ: Embolic and thrombotic events. 
Of the 27 cases, 5 cases reported events of interest, reporting central venous sinus thrombosis or 
significant peripheral thrombosis. Six cases were reported by Health Care Professionals and 21 were 
non-medically confirmed cases. Two cases reported COVID -19 test results, with  1 positive result and 1 
negative result. The narrative of 2 cases suggests that  thrombotic diagnoses were ruled out:  one case 
involved a woman of unspecified age who was hospitalized with  “heart attack symptoms” one day after 
vaccine administration and all tests on her heart “came back go od.” Another case involved an adult 
man with  a history of “born in” heart condition who thought  he was having a heart attack the same 
day as vaccine, and underwent “EKG, MRI, Nuclear stress test,  CAT scan and Transoesophageal ECHO, 
all of which came back ok” in addition to  “countless tests, blood screens, monitoring and 
consultation[s].”  22 of the 27 cases reported an event latency from vaccine; all of these occurred less 
than 28  days (range 0-19  days; mean 6.2 days) after vaccine administration.  
There was one case of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) with  “exacerbation of idiopathic 
capillary leak syndrome (ICLS)” in a 61-71year-old female with limited  information provided. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
There were 27 post-marketing case reports of thromboembolism; based on the  narratives, thrombotic 
disease was ruled out  in two of these. 22 of 27 cases occurred with  a latency from vaccination but 
within  28 days after vaccine administration. No  laboratory tests have been provided in this sect ion; 
five of the cases are included in  the EudraVigilance case reports in section 3.1.2.  Laboratory tests  are 
expected with  the next Responses to RSI.  
The case of capillary leak syndrome is noted, and this condition should be followed up in monthly 
safety summary reports (RSI).  
Thrombosis (any) and  Concomitant Thrombocytopenia/low platelet  count; 
B.1. Clinical trials with  the COVID-19 vaccine Janssen 
A Clinical Trial search for Thromboembolic events revealed a single case from study COV3001 where 
thromboembolism in  combination with thrombocytopenia was observed. Venous Transverse Sinus 
Thrombosis and Cerebral Haemorrhage was reported following administration of Ad26.COV2.S. This 
participant was tested negative 28 days post vaccination for SARS -CoV-2 infection, based on SARS-
CoV-2 nucleocapsid antibody serology, as measured by ELISA and Meso Scale Discovery assays. SARS -
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 41/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CoV-2 neutralizing antibody titers elicited by Ad26.COV2.S vaccine (IC50 of 66) 29 days post 
vaccination were in the range of titers  observe d in participants that  received Ad26.COV2.S at a dose 
level of 5x1010vp (N=10,  IC50 of 117 with  a 95% confidence interval of 18  - 449) in COV1001 cohort 
1b, as measured by psVNA. The neutralizing antibody titers against the vector were not evaluated.  
Additional Heparin-Induced Thrombocytopenia (HIT) PF4 antibody IgG test  results were received by 
the Company on April 12th,  2021 and were not yet included in the CIOMS I form:  
•  Day 1, pre-vaccination (21  Sep 2020):  0.246  (negative) 
•  Day 29 (22  Oct 2020):  2.137 (positive) 
•  Day 71 (01  Dec 2020):  1.451 (positive) 
B.3 Ad26 Platform Data, 
No case of Thrombosis (any) and Concomitant Thrombocytopenia/low platelet count  were reported.  
B.4 Ad26.ZEBOV (Ebola) Collaborative Clinical Trials and Vaccination Programs  
No serious cases of thromboembolic events with  concomitant thrombocytopenia were reported. Safety 
laboratory values (including  platelet counts) were only available for five subjects that reported an 
embolic or thrombotic event. None of the subjects reported thrombocy topenia/low platelet  counts post-
vaccination, with the  exception of one subject that  reported a low platelet counts at screening 
(114,000 cell/mm3) and thrombophlebitis on the day of vaccination (grade 1, mild;  duration 6 days). 
The platelet count was back to normal range at the  day of vaccination (214,000  cell/mm3). 
B.5 Spontaneously reported cases with  COVID -19 vaccine Janssen (post-marketing) - SMQ: Embolic 
and thrombotic events SMQ AND SMQ Haematopoietic thrombocytopenia OR SMQ Thrombocytopenia  
Five cases reported thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia reported thrombocytopenia, but platelet count 
was not reported, with  platelet count  of 18,000,  3 of these cases also reported elevated D-dimer. Two 
cases included a positive PF4/polyanion ELISA of 3.0  (no reference range provided) and 3.179  Optical 
Density units  (upper range of normal is below or equal to 0.399),  respectively.  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
In the clinical studies with  the COVID -19 vaccine Janssen, one case with  concomitant thrombosis 
(CVST) and thrombocytopenia was reported; this case was discussed with  the signal confirmation 
above and is further discussed in section 3.1.2 below. 
As discussed in the assessment of Q2 above, there appears to be one additional case with  concom itant 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia in study 3001  (a male aged between 56-66  with  DVT and 
thrombocytopenia). It is unclear why the MAH  has not  included this subject in the presentation of case 
reports as requested; full  details on this  case including CIO MS report is expected (immediate  RSI). 
For the Ad26 platform data and the Ebola collaborative clinical trials,  no cases with  concomitant 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia were reported. 
C) Thrombocytopenia/low platelet count regardless of symptoms  
C.1 Clinical trials with  the COVID-19 vaccine Janssen 
The search identified a total of 18 non-serious cases (AEs) of any haematological abnormalities in 
subjects aged between 19 and 76 years old. Out of the 18  AEs, 12  were associated with  the 
Ad26.COV2.S, 1  with the  placebo and 6 AEs are still blinded. The AEs reported as related to 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 42/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ad26.COV2.S and blinded group included leukopenia (N=1)  neutropenia (N=1),  leukopenia (N=1), 
neutrophil count  decreased (N=1), low haemoglobin (N=1)  and anaemia (N=1).  For these related 
cases, time to onset after vaccination varies between 6 and 76 days and 4 cases occurred within  the 
first 28 days.  
The search identified a total of 7 serious adverse events (SAEs) in 4 female subjects aged between 25 
and -65 years old and 3 male subjects between 51 and 68 years old. Out of the 7 SAEs, 2 were 
associated with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine, 4 were associated with  the placebo and 1 SAE is still 
blinded. The events reported included anaemia reported in the Ad26.COV2.S group (N=2)  ,the blinded 
group (N=1)  and in the placebo group (N=1)  . One case of Immune thrombocytopenia and 3 cases of 
anaemia were reported in the placebo group. Time to onset reported for  anaemia was 1  day (blinded 
case), 21  days and 72 days in the  Ad26.COV2.S group. Time to  onset in  the placebo group varied 
between 36 and 107 days. The investigator causality was not  related for all the 8 SAEs.  
Further details on the cases reported in the Ad26.COV2.S COVID -19 clinical trials Janssen (unblinded 
and blinded cases) can be found in the  detailed programmed case narratives.The following events were 
reported for the COVID-19 clinical trials (Table 12). There are no events reported in COV1002 and 
COV2001. 
Table 12:  COVID-19 vaccine Janssen clinical trials: Cases of Thrombocytopenia/low platelet count 
regardless of symptoms 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
Overall, based on Table 12, there were 27 cases of haematopoietic cytopenia/thrombocytopenia in the 
COVID-19 vaccine Janssen clinical trials in patients who received the  vaccine; 9 in the placebo groups 
and for 13  cases, treatment is still blinded. 
The figures in the  MAH text in this  section are not congruent with  Table 12; it is unclear if this relates 
to the cases in  Table 12 not  being reported as AEs or SAEs. It is howe ver noted that  there was an 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 43/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
imbalance also in non-serious AEs of any haematological abnormalities in the clinical trials with  the 
COVID-19 vaccine Janssen, with  12 AEs reported in the Ad26.COV2.S group, 1 in  the placebo group 
and for 6 AEs, treatment is still  blinded. For serious AEs of haematological abnormalities, there were 2 
in the Ad26.COV2.S group, 4 in the placebo group and for 1 SAE, treatment  remains blinded. Anaemia 
was the most frequent of these SAEs. 
Overall, the majority of cases appear to pertain to  ‘haematopoietic cytopenias’ without  further 
specification, for which  also an imbalance is noted (in total  12 cases in the  Ad26.vaccine groups, 4 in 
the placebo groups, and 2 in whom treatment  is blinded). 
One case in the placebo group was reported with  Immune thrombocytopenia in study 3001,  and there 
was one case of thrombocytopenia in the vaccine group in this section (however, as discussed above, 
there was also one case with  concomitant thrombocytopenia and CVST in  study 3001). 
The MAH should clarify the  cases of ‘haematopoietic cytopenias’ in the  clinical trials with  COVID-19 
vaccine Janssen and whether any of these were thrombocytopenic (RSI). 
C.2 COV3012:  SISONKE 
No cases of Thrombocytopenia/low platelet count  regardless of symptoms were reported  at the time of 
this report. 
C.3 Ad26 Platform Data, 
A summary tabulation of the worst laboratory toxicity grades within  28  days following study 
vaccination for selected laboratory safety parameters of all studies that  are integrated in the AdVac 
Safety Database V6.0. is provided in Table 13. Most  laboratory toxicities were transient (including 
Grade 3 events) and returned to normal range upon repeat testing. The frequency of graded laboratory 
toxicities was also similar in both the  Ad26 vaccine and placebo  groups. Platelet count decrease was 
observed following 70 out of 4,105  Ad26 doses (1.7%)  and 7 out  of 719 placebo doses (1.0%).  None 
of the platelet count decrease cases post vaccination were concomitant with  an embolic or thrombotic 
event. In total,  18 cases of Grade 3* platelet count  decrease cases were reported within  28 days 
following Ad26 vaccination (mostly at 8-day post-vaccination visit).  
Except one case for which the  safety laboratory assessment was not repeated, all grade 3 platelet 
count decrease cases were back to normal range upon retesting in  the days following the grade 3 
event. One case of persistent grade 3 (31,000  cells/mm3) thrombocytopenia was reported 8 days 
following vaccination for a female subject aged between 54-64  in study VAC18193RSV1004 following 
vaccination with Ad26.RSV.preF. The event persisted for 40 days upon  returning to normal range. The 
subject remained asymptomatic during  the event and had normal physical exams (no bruising or 
petechiae reported). 
Table 13:  Tabulation of Worst Laboratory Toxicity Grades Within  28 Days  Following Study 
Vaccination;  All Participants; FAS 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 44/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
There is an imbalance in platelet  count decrease in the  Ad26 platform data. Platelet count  decrease 
was observed following 70  out of 4,105 Ad26 doses (1.7%) and 7 out  of 719  placebo doses (1.0%). 
None of the platelet count decrease cases post vaccination were concomitant with  an embolic or 
thrombotic event. In total, 18  cases of G rade 3*  platelet count decrease cases were reported within  28 
days following Ad26 vaccination (mostly at 8-day post-vaccination visit) and 1 case in the placebo 
groups. 
All grade 3 platelet count  decrease cases that were re -tested (all but one) went back to normal range 
upon retesting in the  days following the grade 3 event. One case of persistent grade 3 (31,000 
cells/mm3) thrombocytopenia was reported 8 days following vaccination for a female  subject aged 
between 54-64  in study VAC18193RSV1004 following  vaccination with  Ad26.RSV.preF. The event 
persisted for 40 days upon returning  to normal range. The subject remained asymptomatic during the 
event and had normal physical exams (no bruising or petechiae reported). This event is considered of 
interest; for a comparison, HIT (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia) can present with 
thrombocytopenia without  other symptoms. These data need to be considered for further review 
regarding thrombocytopenia. 
C.4 Ad26.ZEBOV (Ebola) Collaborative Clinical Trials and Vaccination Programs 
No serious cases thrombocytopenia were reported. 
C.5 Spontaneously reported cases with  COVID -19 vaccine Janssen (post-marketing) -SMQ 
Haematopoietic thrombocytopenia OR Thrombocytopenias HLT  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 45/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were 7 total spontaneous cases of thrombocytope nia. Of these, 6 were serious and 5 were 
detailed above in response 4. There was one non-serious case of thrombocytopenia that  was not 
associated with  thrombosis; this case reported a decreased platelet count in a female aged between 
65-75  with a platelet count  of 138  (NR: 150-450).  The one late breaking serious case of platelet count 
decreased is described below. 
There was a late-breaking case also included in  the above counts of platelet count decreased an 
unknown time after vaccine. This case involved a female of unspecified age with an unspecified 
autoimmune disease, who had quarterly blood tests and was hospitalized due to a decreased platelet 
count (value not reported). She was discharged after a week with  “weekly test  checks.” Additional 
information has been requested. 
Narratives 
Programmed case narratives are provided in all Ad26.COV2.S COVID -19 vaccine clinical trials with  the 
exception of COV3012 which is an open-label collaborative study). 
Information from serious cases observed from the AdVac platform are reported in the GMS safety 
database and therefore, available in the COIMS. 
More detailed information for spontaneous cases and cases observed in the open -label collaborative 
COV1012 clinical trial are available in the CIOMS . 
EMA Response Late Breaking Information 
The data presented by the MAH in this  response document have a data lock of 12 April 2021 or earlier, 
as further specified in the different sections of the responses provided.  
To assure transparency with respect to additional information a vailable to the MAH  at the time of issue 
of this document, the MAH  would like to add the following elements in this section with  late breaking 
information. 
On 12 April 2021, the  MAH was informed of an event of sagittal  vein thrombosis, right lower extremity 
DVT and thrombocytopenia. On 15  April 2021,  further information was provided to the MAH  under the 
Freedom of Information Act. The case is currently proces sed in the global safety database and further 
follow-up attempts  will be made.  
Available case details: 
 A female aged between 21-31  with no reported medical history received JNJ vaccine on and 
complained of a “viral syndrome” including  fevers, rigors, mus cle pain and shortness of breath an 
unspecified time  after the vaccine. She received azithromycin as treatment. Fever persisted for 1 day 
after her emergency room visit, and she continued to “feel badly”. The following day, she awakened 
with  severe Right>Left jaw pain, posterior headache with  standing,  pain in  cartilage from the tip of 
nose, and shortness of breath. Shortness of breath resolved  12 days after the vaccination. Headaches 
persisted as did jaw pain, and pain behind the eyes. On  11 days after vaccination, she noted increasing 
bruising and periorbital petechiae. She sought  help from her primary care provider who noted bilateral 
leg swelling (R>L). Labs and a Doppler ultrasound were performed but  results are not yet available. 
She had a syncopal spell and was taken to emergency room where she received a diagnosis of sagittal 
vein thrombosis, right  lower extremity deep vein thrombosis and thrombocytopenia. Her platelet count 
was 125k, smear review: no clumping, no schistocytes. Hypercoagulation panel  ordered as well as 
ANA, Anti PF4/HIT  (pending). CT and MRI head with  Dural sinus thrombosis.  Duplex US of RLE 
thrombosis. She was stabilized and as to  yet recovered. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 46/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) in the USA  
On 14 April 2021, a meeting was organized by the CDC / Advisory Committee on Immunization 
Practices (ACIP) where the reports of CVSTs with  thrombocytopenia after COVID -19 vaccine Janssen 
reported in the  US since the start  of the vaccination program were presented. As CDC and FDA ha ve 
access to more detailed information than the  MAH, we herewith include the link to ACIP website for 
further details on the presentation made during that  meeting 
https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/meetings/slides-2021-04.html. 
MAH  Summary 
Review of all clinical trial data with Janssen Ad26.COV2.S vaccine identified  one report of cerebral 
venous sinus thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia in a 18-28  year old male. Review of clinical trial and 
spontaneous reports with  Ad26 platform, not including the  Janssen Ad26.COV2.S vaccine, identified 
events of thrombocytopenia or platelet decreased with a higher incidence in  the Ad26 treatment arm 
compared to placebo. None of the subjects with  thrombocytopenia or decreased platelets count 
reported a concomitant embolic or thrombotic  event. The thrombocytopenia or platelet decreased 
events were transient, occurred 7 days post  vaccination and resolved by the date of the next 
laboratory assessment,  
Review of MAH safety database for events reported from collabora tive study in South Africa (SISONKE, 
3012)  identified three cases of interest: 1  of Cerebrovascular accident, 1 of retinal vein occlusion and 
Retinal haemorrhage and 1 of Pulmonary embolism (PE) with Cor pulmonale. One additional report of 
CVA and one of PE have been included in the monthly report dated 12 April. None of the  above reports 
included thrombocytopenia, it  should be noted that MAH  is not sponsor of the study and limited 
information is provided in the monthly reports, Spontaneous reports from MAHs  safety database 
included 6 reports of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis 5 with  thrombocytopenia. Most  occurred within 
16 days of vaccination and all 6  were in women aged between 18 and 48.  
The number of thrombotic events with  thrombocytopenia are low and  there is insufficient data to 
conclude a definitive causal association with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine at present. However, given the 
seriousness of the  events, further monitoring and characterization are planned as described in the 
subsequent sections of this  response. 
PRAC Rapporteur comment (totality of Q4): 
For thrombosis (any), there was an imbalance noted for venous thrombosis with  the initial assessment 
of the clinical trial data; the RMP includes thromboembolism as an important potential  risk; there is  
currently no mentioning  of thrombosis in the  product information. It is noted that there was no 
increase in thromboembolic events in the Ad26 platform data; however, there is an imbalance in 
decreased platelet levels based on that platform data (see below). 
Based on the data provided with  this answer, information remains insufficient to  assess how many 
cases in the clinical studies with  thrombosis (n=35  in the Ad26.COV2.S groups, 20 who remain 
blinded) who had concomitant thrombocytopenia. As discussed in  Q2 above, lab tests  have not yet 
been provided for the majority of these subjects; in only three of the cases with  thrombosis, a normal 
platelet count has been provided. One clinical study case is well documented ( 18-28  year old male), in 
whom three different CIOMS reports have been submitted  with varying information; it is clear, 
however, that  this previously healthy individual with  no pre-existing anti-PF4-antibodies  was 
hospitalized with  CVST with  haemorrhage and thrombocytopenia following vaccination wi th  COVID-19 
vaccine Janssen, with positive anti-PF4-antibodies  after vaccination. One additional clinical trial case 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 47/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  deep vein thrombosis and thrombocytopenia is noted in Q2, further data are requested 
(immediate  RSI). 
For the open-label clinical study with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in South Africa, there were five cases 
of thromboembolism that  occurred between less than 24  hours and 23 days after vaccination. Normal 
platelet counts have been provided for only one of these; for one case, pulmonary embol ism was 
diagnosed postmortem and is thus not  expected to provide further laboratory testing; for the 
remaining three cases, platelet  levels are expected with  the Responses to the next  RSI. 
For the Ad26 platform data and the Ebola collaborative clinical trials,  no cases with  concomitant 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia were reported 
For thrombocytopenia, no imbalance is apparent with  the data as presented for the  clinical COVID -19 
vaccine Janssen studies;  however, there is an imbalance in  haematopoietic cytop enias: in  total 12 
cases in the Ad26.vaccine groups, 4 in the  placebo groups, and 2 in  whom treatment remains blinded. 
A more precise diagnosis of these cases is requested (RSI). Also, in the Ad26 platform data, there is 
an imbalance in platelet count  decrease, which was observed following 70 out  of 4,105  Ad26 doses 
(1.7%)  and 7 out of 719 placebo doses (1.0%). None of these were associated with  a thromboembolic 
event. 
The MAH concludes that the  number of thrombotic events with  thrombocytopenia are low and  there is 
insufficient data to conclude a definitive causal association with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. This is not 
supported. The PRAC Rapporteur considers that  a causal association is sufficiently supported based on 
the following: 
-The observed cases with CVST and concomitant thrombocytopenia represent clinical entities that  are 
extremely rare in an overall population. Although CVST is well-known to  occur predominantly in 
younger females, often related to hormonal factors such as pregnancy, puerperium or est rogen-
containing medications, concomitant thrombocytopenia is not part of any usual clinical picture for 
CVST. 
-The findings of positive anti-PF4-antibodies  in several cases, in one case with  documented non-
existing anti-PF4-antibodies  before vaccination, suggest that  the clinical picture is likely due to these 
antibodies. A similarity with  HIT (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia) is evident based on the clinical 
picture; however, there is no known exposure to heparin before the events of thrombo sis and 
thrombocytopenia in  any of the reported cases, and in one case, a screening test for anti -PF4/heparin 
antibodies by latex-enhanced immunoassay was negative whereas results of a PF4/polyanion ELISA 
were strongly positive. 
-In the majority of the cases, there was no apparent risk factor for CVST or other thrombosis or for 
thrombocytopenia. For  a picture of thrombotic thrombocytopenia with positive anti -PF4-antibodies,  this 
is similar to  “spontaneous HIT”  which is characterized by a similar clinical an d laboratory picture in 
patients without  exposure to heparin; however, some trigger is warranted in such cases (such as 
surgery, infectious disease etc). The only common trigger in these cases is the vaccination with  the 
Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. 
-The timing of events is congruent for all of the cases, with  symptoms of thrombosis and/or 
thrombocytopenia occurring within  three weeks from the vaccination. This is also in line with  what  is 
known for HIT  type II and spontaneous HIT as well as for the thrombotic thrombocytopenia related to 
another adenoviral vector COVID-19 vaccine. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 48/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-Extensive work-up excluding other potential causes of thrombosis and/or thrombocytopenia has been 
provided for two of the cases. This includes antiphospholipid antibodies, homocysteine, F actor VIII, 
antithrombin,  protein C, protein S, Factor V Leiden, prothrombin gene mutation,  hepatitis/HIV, 
ADAMTS 13, PNH  and JAK2. The only abnormality that  could explain the  clinical picture in these cases 
was positive anti-PF4-antibodies. 
-Although the  absolute number of cases is low, there is one well characterized case in the clinical trials 
(and one potential case for which details are unknown, see Q2). However, it  remains unknown how 
many cases with  thrombosis and concomitant thrombocytopenia that  oc curred in the clinical trials with 
the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. An imbalance was noted with regards to venous thromboembolism in the 
initial  assessment of these studies, with  more cases in the  vaccine vs the placebo group. However, 
platelet levels have not  been provided for more than very few of these cases. Further, the post-
marketing exposure to COVID-19 vaccine Janssen has increased rapidly within  recent weeks and thus, 
the numbers at risk for having developed these symptoms does not correspond to actual dos es given 
(see also Q1). 
Based  on the above,  the PRAC Rapporteur considers that ‘thrombotic thrombocytopenia’ 
should be included in the  product information section 4.4 and  4.8.  
QUESTION  5 
Observed  to expected  analyses of cases of  
a.  Cerebral venous thrombosis without thrombocytopenia (i.e.  using all relevant  PTs such 
as cerebral venous thrombosis, superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, transverse sinus 
thrombosis, aseptic cavernous sinus thrombo sis, cerebral venous thrombosis and also 
events  of cerebral thrombosis that are adjudicated  to be related  to venous  thrombosis), 
also stratified by age  bands (i.e. 10 years)  should be provided. Background rates  for 
events  of CVST without thrombocytopenia s hould be  used within the  analysis. 
b.  Cerebral venous thrombosis with thrombocytopenia (i.e. using all relevant  PTs such as 
cerebral venous thrombosis, superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, transverse sinus 
thrombosis, aseptic cavernous sinus thrombosis, cerebr al venous thrombosis and also 
events  of cerebral thrombosis that are adjudicated  to be related  to venous  thrombosis), 
also stratified by age  bands (i.e. 10 years),  should be provided. Background rates  for 
CVST with thrombocytopenia should be  used within the  analysis. 
MAH  RESPONSE: 
Incidence of Cerebral sinus venous thrombosis  
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis is a rare phenomenon that can be seen with  some frequency in 
young patients. CVST is a multifactorial condition with  gender -related specific causes, with a wide 
clinical presentation, the leading causes differ between developed and developing countries, converting 
CVST in a condition characterized by a highly variable clinical spectra, difficult diagnosis, variable 
etiologies and prognosis that requires fine medical skills and a high suspicious index. This disease can 
affect the cerebral venous drainage and related anatomical structure. The symptoms may appear in 
relation to increased intracranial pressure imitating  a pseudotumor cerebri. Prognosis depend s on the 
early detection and appropriate treatment. Correcting the cause, generally the  complications can be 
prevented (Alvis-Miranda 2013). 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 49/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As in any thrombotic process, risk factors are associated with the  classical Virchow triad of 
thrombogenesis: hypercoagulability, vessel wall damage and blood stasis. It may be associated with 
inherited and acquired risks factors; however, this categorization is fairly artificial, because they have 
additive effects and CVST is multifactorial. By far, in developed countries, the most frequently 
associated factor is congenital thrombophilia. 
Inherited prothrombotic risk factors include homocysteinemia, factor V Leiden homozygous mutation, 
G20210A prothrombin gene and Methylene - Tetra-Hydro-Folate-Reductase 677TT mutations,  protein C 
and S and anti-thrombin  III deficiency, and positive anti-cardiolipin or antiphospholipid antibodies. 
Acquired risks factors include all the usual causes of VTE and additionally causes such as brain tumors, 
head trauma, central nervous system infections (bacterial meningitis,  cerebral malaria, intracranial 
hypotension, any local head infection,  extracerebral neoplasia’s, dural fistulas, hematological 
conditions, nephrotic syndrome, systemic vasculitis, medicaments (cisplatin, methotrexate, and 
steroids), neurological surgery, lumbar puncture, pregnancy, and puerperium (Alvis -Miranda 2013). 
Cerebral venous thrombosis has an annual incidence estimated to  be 3 to  4 cases per million.  The 
frequency of peripartum and post-partum cerebral venous thrombosis is about 12 cases per 100,000 
deliveries in pregnant women, which is only slightly  lower than  that of peripartum and postpartum 
arterial stroke. More recently, there has been a significant  female predominance among young adults, 
with  the majority of cases (70%  to 80%) being in women of childbearing age, but not  among children 
or elderly persons (Tadi 2020). 
Observed to expected analyses of cases of CVST with  and without  thrombocytopenia by age are 
provided in Table 14, Table 15,  and Table 16. 
Table 14:  OE Analysis CVST with Thrombocytopenia 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 50/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH has also provided the following supplementary contextual information to support question 5:  
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) has an annual incidence estimated to be two to five cases 
per million  (Capecchi, 2018).  These data are aligned with  the publicly available data from the ACCESS 
project (ENCePP Home Page). Two other studies found higher incidence rates than previously reported 
with  annual rates ranging between 13.2 to  15.7 cases per million (Countinho, 2012;  Devasagayam, 
2016).  The frequency of peripartum and post-partum cerebral venous thrombosis is about 12  cases per 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 51/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100,000  deliveries in pregnant women, which is only slightly  lower than  that of peripartum and 
postpartum arterial stroke. More recently, there has been a significant female predominance among 
young adults, with  the majority of cases (70%  to 80%) being in women of childbearing age, but not 
among children or elderly persons (Tadi, 2020).   
Observed to expected analyses of cases of CVST with  and without  thrombocytopenia by age and sex 
are provided in Table 14 and Table 15,  and Table 16 provides overall Observed to expected analysis.  
Given the absence of publicly available background incidence rates on CVST with  and without 
thrombocytopenia, the  Janssen’s team estimated incidence rates of CVST with and without 
thrombocytopenia using  existing databases for which Janssen has a license. T he rates were generated 
using US claims and electronic medical databases. Incident cases of CVST were identified using pre -
defined algorithms, the co-occurrence of CVST and thrombocytopenia was defined as a diagnosis of 
thrombocytopenia or low platelet measurement within  42 days prior to CVST and 14  days after CVST 
index date. The incidence of CVST overall was 1.4/100,000  person-years in females which is in the 
higher range of published data (see Table 16). 
PRAC Rapporteur comment: 
The MAH has provided Observed/Expected (O/E) analysis  by age and sex for events of cerebral venous 
sinus thrombosis (CVST) with  and without  thrombocytopenia. Given the absence of publicly available 
background incidence rates on CVST with  and without  thromb ocytopenia, the  MAH has estimated 
incidence rates of CVST with  and without  thrombocytopenia using existing databases for which MAH 
has a license. The co-occurrence of CVST and thrombocytopenia was defined as a diagnosis of 
thrombocytopenia or low platelet measurement within  42 days prior to CVST and 14  days after CVST 
index date. The incidence of CVST overall was 1.4/100,000  person-years in females which is in the 
higher range of published data. The incidence of CVST with  thrombocytopenia is unknown but  is 
considered to be very rare. 
The MAH has not explained which  cut-off date for post-marketing data that  was used in the analysis, 
which needs further clarification. In addition,  it needs to  be clarified what time frame that  was used to 
calculate the expected rate of these rare events of CVST in combination  with thrombocytopenia  (RSI).  
CVST without  thrombocytopenia 
O/E analysis provided by MAH 16th of April 2021 based on the  available post-marketing data: 
Table 15  illustrate the O/E analysis of CVST without  thrombocytopenia stratified by age and sex . One 
event has been reported (female aged 31-41 years), however, lab data regarding thrombocytes has 
not been provided for this  case and it is therefore not  known if th e  CVST was accompanied with 
thrombocytopenia or not. A slightly increased O/E point  estimate (1.2) for the subgroup female 35-54 
years was presented based on this case, but since it is not  known if this  case was associated with 
thrombocytopenia or not, and given the very limited data,  the value of the analysis is limited.   
CVST with  thrombocytopenia 
O/E analysis provided by MAH 16th of April 2021 based on the  available post-marketing data: 
Table 14  illustrate the O/E analysis of CVST with  thrombocytopenia stratified  by age and sex. Within 
this O/E analysis, five events of CVST in  combination with thrombocytopenia has been included by the 
MAH.  Even though  the numbers of cases reported are limited, the OE ratios are clearly greater than 
one in women for the different age ranges assessed, as well as for the total  numbers, which  suggests a 
signal of an excess of risk. Furthermore, the O/E lower bounds for the two  younger age ranges are 
clearly above one.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 52/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is noted that  the analysis does not  include a male aged between 18-28  from the  phase III study that 
was reported with  CVST and thrombocytopenia, in addition,  at female subject aged between 52-62 
included in this  analysis had thrombosis located to the le gs but not  CVST. The O/E analysis for both 
male aged 18-34  years and female aged 55-64 years old in table 14 and 15 is therefore incorrect. 
Revised, and updated analyses are requested (RSI). 
The O/E analysis (CVST with  thrombocytopenia) based on sex (table 16) showed an increased risk 
compared to expected for female (O/E point estimate 14.4)  whereas the corresponding analysis for 
men showed an O/E point  estimate of 0.  Based on what  is described above, revised, and updated 
analyses are requested (RSI). 
Conclusion  
The O/E analysis is based on very limited date since it  CVST in combination with  thrombocytopenia is 
an extremely rare medical condition, and reported cases so far are few. Despite the use of some 
incorrect data, the  provided O/E analysis shows a clear signal of increased risk for CVST with 
thrombocytopenia in  female subjects aged <64 years compared to what can be expected in this 
population.  
QUESTION  6 
Discussion on potential causal relationship between  vaccination with Covid -19 vaccine 
Janssen and  the events  of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, addressing possible 
pathophysiological mechanism, including potential for platelet  activation. This should 
include all relevant  non-clinical data  and clinical data  and address any potential  role of  the 
adenoviral  gene transfer vector. 
MAH  RESPONSE: 
There are currently no data that suggest an obvious causal relationship or pathophysiological 
mechanism specifically linking vaccination with  Janssens COVID -19 vaccine and the events of 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia. 
While one could speculate around the role of cytokines, that  are elicited by Ad26.COV2.S, in the 
activation of platelets and release of PF4, the  subsequent steps that  lead to  PF4 immunogenicity and 
PF4 antibody production are not  known. In a ddition, while the induction  of cytokines by vaccination 
and viral infections is a general phenomenon, CVST in the presence of thrombocytopenia is extremely 
rare. Indeed, based on the observations that the  incidence of CVST following vaccination with the 
Janssen vaccine is at  a rate predicted for the non-vaccinated population and that these CVST events 
are associated with  thrombocytopenia it  is interesting to speculate that  the inflammation and 
postulated hypercoagulability in some vaccinated individuals is  a trigger rather than a cause of CVST in 
individuals with  predisposition to  CVST. The one subject in our clinical trials that developed CVST had 
low platelets, hyper-coagulability and tested positive for PF4  antibodies. This patient also had pre -
existing narrowing of the  sigmoid sinus which  was a predisposing factor for CVST. We are currently 
exploring potential  underlying mechanisms for a relation between induction  of PF4 antibodies and 
vaccination, for instance by analyzing the ability of (parts of) the  Ad26 vector, the  spike protein, or 
residual host  cell protein and or host cell DNA in the  vaccine, to form an immunogenic complex with 
PF4, eliciting  PF4 antibodies. This may be further stimulated by Ad26 induced innate immunity. 
Investigation of potential pre-dispositioning for what  is called ‘vaccine-induced immuno 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 53/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
thrombocytopenia’ (HLA,  polymorphisms in PF4,  Fc
 receptors, etc) and/or CSVT (genetic, 
anatomical) will be done in  collaboration with  experts in the field. 
Nonclinical safety  data 
An assessment of the potential risk for thromboembolic events or coagulopathies based on nonclinical 
GLP safety data available for Ad26.COV2.S as well as other Ad26-based vaccines is provided in the 
next sections. Overall, these data do not indicate any adverse vaccin e-related effect suggestive of an 
increased risk for thromboembolic events or coagulopathies associated with  Ad26.COV2.S or the  Ad26 
platform.  
Ad26.COV2.S 
The nonclinical safety profile of Ad26.COV2.S was evaluated in a 4-week GLP-compliant intermittent 
repeated dose toxicity and local tolerance study in male and female New Zealand  White (NZW)  rabbits 
(study TOX14382).  In this  study, rabbits were injected intramuscularly (IM)  with  a control solution 
(0.9%  sodium chloride) or 1×1011 vp Ad26.COV2.S on three  occasions with  a 14-day interval period 
(Days 1, 15,  and 29;  See study design in Table 17).  The animals were followed up until  3 weeks after 
the third  vaccination to assess the potential  reversibility, persistence or delayed occurrence of any 
vaccine-related findings. 
Fibrinogen and CRP levels were measured before the first vaccination, Day 2 (CRP only), Day 3, Day 7, 
Day 15 (before injection),  Day 16 (CRP only), Day 17,  Day 21, Day 29 (before injection),  Day 30 (CRP 
only), Day 31 (ie, 2 days after third vaccination, at necropsy), Day 35 (ie, during  treatment-free 
period), and Day 50  (end of treatment-free period, at  necropsy). Clinical pathology parameters 
(hematology, coagulation, and clinical chemistry) were determined before the first vaccination, 2  d ays 
after the first and third vaccination (ie, on Days 3 and 31,  respectively) and 3 weeks after the third 
vaccination (Day 50; end of treatment-free period). Macroscopic (gross necropsy findings and organ 
weights) and microscopic pathology evaluations of a full tissue list were performed from animals 
sacrificed 2 days (i.e., Day 31)  and 3 weeks after the  third vaccination (i.e., Day 50). 
The dose administered to the animals (1×1011  vp) is 2-fold above the clinical dose (5x1010 vp). 
Based on a 3 kg rabbit, this  would yield a 33-fold  margin versus a 50 kg human. In addition, the 
animals received three doses versus a single dose which is proposed for the emergency use of 
Ad26.COV2.S in  humans. Further details of the study/design can be found in the report (Stu dy 
TOX14382). Overall, Ad26.COV2.S was well tolerated by the animals and there were no adverse 
vaccine-related effects noted in the study.  A more detailed assessment of potential risk for 
thromboembolic events or coagulopathies based on the nonclinical saf ety data available for 
Ad26.COV.2S is included below. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 54/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In TOX14382, IM administration  of Ad26.COV2.S at 1x1011 vp on 3 occasions (Days 1, 15, and 29) 
was associated with  mild, transient increases in fibrinogen concentrations on Days 3, 17  and 31 in 
male and female animals (Text Table 12 in  Section 7.8  of the  report; Study TOX14382). These 
increases were partially reversed within one week following vaccine administration, ie, on Days 7, 21 
and 35. On Days 15 and 29, thus  2 weeks following the  1st and the 2nd  vaccine administration, 
respectively, the fibrinogen values were similar to pre -study /  control group values. Also at the end of 
the recovery period (Day 50, ie, 3 weeks after the third vaccine administration),  changes in fibrinogen 
concentrations were no longer observed. The maximum mean fold changes in the vaccine treated 
group versus the control group were 1.63x for male animals 2 days after the 3rd vaccine 
administration (i.e., on Day 31)  and 1.85x for female animals 2 days after the 2 nd vaccine 
administration (i.e., on Day 17). 
Increases in fibrinogen values are not unique to Ad26 based vaccines and are seen in nonclinical safety 
studies with  various vaccine- and adjuvant modalities or platforms (Baldrick 2016). In toxicity studies 
with  vaccines, fibrinogen is used as a biomarker for inflammatory / acute phase responses following 
vaccination, together with other acute phase proteins such as C -reactive protein (CRP, depending on 
the nonclinical species used) (Green 2015;  Destexhe 2013). The vaccine -induced increases in 
fibrinogen observed with Ad26.COV2.S in  TOX14382 (i.e., up to approximately 1.63x / 1.85x), are 
similar as reported in  rabbits with  other vaccines or adjuvant systems (e .g., Destexhe 2013; Sheets, 
2008),  and are not deemed adverse. Other cha nges in coagulation or platelet parameters noted in 
TOX14382 were sporadic, transient and of minimal severity grades, eg; In vaccine -treated male 
animals a 12%  decrease in platelets (ie, 354  x 109/L  versus 402 x 109/L  for control) was observed on 
Day 3, two  days after the first vaccine administration, and a 7% reduction (ie, 6.8 sec versus 7.3 sec 
for control) of prothrombin time was observed on Day 31, two days after the third  vaccine 
administration. Despite being statistically significant, these two  chang es were not  considered vaccine-
related based on their small magnitude  and overlap of individual values on these single occasions with 
the range of control and/or baseline values in the  study. 
No histopathological changes suggestive of a thrombotic event /  coagulopathy or its sequelae were 
seen in  any of the tissues examined in TOX14382, and no local or systemic adverse effects of the 
Ad26.COV2.S vaccine were observed on full-tissue  microscopic examination. 
In addition, in efficacy and immunogenicity studies  using nonhuman primates (NHP),  and hamsters no 
pathological evidence of thromboembolic events or coagulopathies was observed in animals that  were 
vaccinated with  Ad26.COV2.S and subsequently challenged with  the SARS -COV-2 virus. In these 
studies, histopathological evaluation of respiratory tract tissues did not  reveal any evidence of 
thrombosis and other coagulopathies in the pulmonary vascular bed in vaccinated animals, including 
breakthrough cases. 
Overall, these (GLP) nonclinical safety data for Ad26.CO V2.S do not indicate any adverse vaccine -
related effect suggestive of an increased risk for thromboembolic events or coagulopathies.  
Ad26 vaccine  platform 
As described in the Nonclinical Overview (i.e., Module 2.4 of the cMA package), the MAH  has significant 
nonclinical experience with other Ad26-vectored vaccines using various transgenes encoding for HIV, 
malaria, RSV, Zikavirus, Filovirus (Ebolavirus, Marburgvirus), influenza (Universal influenza) and  HPV 
antigens. More than 10  GLP combined repeated dose toxicity and local tolerance studies have been 
performed in rabbits (and one study in  rats) testing  the nonclinical safety of these various Ad26 -based 
vaccines. High-level (tabulated) summaries from these studies are provided in Supporting Information: 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 55/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overview of Supportive GLP Toxicology Studies Testing Ad26-vectored Vaccines in Rabbits or Rats 
After IM Injections. 
The various Ad26-based vaccines in these studies were tested either alone, or in 
regimens/combinations with  other vaccine modalities, including Ad35-based vaccines, Modified 
Vaccinia Virus Ankara (MVA)-based vaccines and/or (glyco)proteins with  or without  an aluminum 
phosphate adjuvant. The fold changes as indicated in the table are the maxi mum mean fold changes 
(irrespective of vaccine regimen, sampling time or sex) measured during the study, versus controls. In 
the available studies up to 5 sequential IM  dose administrations have been tested at Ad26 vaccine 
levels up to 4×1011  vp (i.e., up to 8-fold above the  full clinical dose currently used for Ad26.COV2.S), 
covering in life study phases up to  12 weeks (including recovery). Overall, the Ad26 -based 
vaccines/regimens in these additional studies were well tolerated and no adverse vaccine -related 
effects were noted in any of the studies. 
In line with  the results described for Ad26.COV2.S above, across these additional studies with  Ad26 -
based vaccines a consistent vaccine -related acute phase response was observed, evidenced by 
transient increases in e.g., fibrinogen (up to 2.5-fold)  and CRP (or α2-macroglobulin in rats; study 
TOX12276). The following changes in coagulation parameters were considered vaccine  related, and 
hence retained in the respective report summaries; In few studies ( e.g. TOX12014,  TOX10931, 
TOX11260 and 1854-09764)  a transient,  minimally shorter prothrombin time (generally less than 
10%) was reported versus controls. Similar minimal shortening of prothrombin time  has been 
described for other adenoviral vaccines (Sheets 2008). C hanges in activated partial thromboplastin 
time (APTT) were observed in TOX10931 (0.9x; male animals), and in study 1854 -09764  (1.4x). In 
study 1854-09764  a reduction in platelet counts  (0.65x) was observed in animals that  received an 
Ad26-based vaccine following  three preceding vaccinations with  an Ad35-based vaccine. There were 
further miscellaneous changes observed in prothrombin time and/or platelets, as well as other clinical 
pathology parameters in other studies,  which occasionally reached statistical  significance. However, 
these changes were not considered vaccine -related, e.g., due to their  sporadic pattern, small 
magnitude, lack of toxicological relevance, and/or relation to  pre-treatment or control ranges. 
Thus, vaccine-related changes in coagulation parameters and platelet counts were minor and not 
consistently observed across studies with  other Ad26-based vaccines. In addition,  similar to study 
TOX14382 with  Ad26.COV2.S, there were no vaccine -related histopathological changes suggestive of a 
thrombotic event / coagulopathy or its sequalae in any of the available studies, which supports the 
conclusion that the  minor changes in coagulation parameters as described above are not adverse. All 
vaccine-related histopathological changes observed in the additional studies with  Ad26-based vaccines 
were consistent  with an anticipated,  non-adverse (local and systemic) immunologic response to 
vaccination. 
Overall, the GLP nonclinical safety data from Ad26.COV2.S and other Ad26 -based vaccines summarized 
above do not indicate any adverse vaccine-related effect suggestive of an increased risk or a 
pathogenic mechanism of action for thromboembolic events or coagulopathies associated  with 
Ad26.COV2.S or the Ad26 platform. 
PRAC Rapporteur comment:  
Across the non-clinical studies with  Ad26.COV2.S and other Ad26-based vaccines there were no 
observations indicating an adverse vaccine -related effect on thrombosis and/or thrombocytopenia. The 
study findings were generally limited to mild and transient ef fects expected from a local and general 
inflammatory reaction subsequent to vaccination. Given the very low incidence of the thromboembolic 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 56/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
events or coagulopathies associated with Ad26.COV2.S, likely of multifactorial  aetiology, it  is not 
unexpected that  no signals are observed in healthy animals.  
Taken together, the non-clinical data with  Ad26.COV2.S and other Ad26-based vaccines provide no 
further understanding on potential causal relationship between vaccination with  Covid -19 vaccine 
Janssen and the  events of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia. 
Regarding clinical assessment of causality, see Q4 and  3.1.4 PRAC Rapporteur Discussion. 
QUESTION  7 
The MAH  is asked  to discuss how, beyond the already  agreed  studies in the PhV  plan, the 
important potential risk venous thromboembolism, including the potential occurrence of the 
combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia can be further studied. Ways  of gaining 
further mechanistic data,  both non-clinical and clinical, regarding potential  interactions of 
the Covid-19  vaccine Janssen and  the coagulation system should specifically be addressed; 
and the  following commented: 
PRAC Rapporteur comment: This question will  not be commented in  the first step of this 
assessment.  
QUESTION  8 
Considering the findings of the  review, the  MAH  should discuss the need  for amendment  to 
the Product Information and/or Risk management  plan,  for the latter, including, but not 
limited to, the list of safety concerns and studies specified within the pharmacovigilance 
plan. 
MAH  RESPONSE: 
As described in the responses to the previous questions, the MAH  conducted extensive review of 
available data across its different databases covering the Ad26.COVS.2 and other Ad26 -vectored 
clinical development programs, collaborative trials and vaccination pr ograms, and the Ad26.COV2.S 
spontaneous reports. Very rare cases of thrombotic events with  thrombocytopenia have been observed 
to date in individuals who received Ad26.COV2.S with  no cases confirmed for other Ad26 vectored 
vaccines. 
Review of the reported AEs showed that, as of 12 April 2021, the MAH  has 6 post-authorization cases 
of Cerebral Venous Sinus Thrombosis (CVST) (4 of which are associated with  low platelets, 2 unknown) 
with  6.8 Million  individuals vaccinated with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. While th e  observed incidence 
rates of CVST with  Ad26.COV2.S is generally consistent  with what  would be expected, the observed 
incidence rates of CVST with  thrombocytopenia in women appears to higher that  what would be 
expected (Table 9). 
Given the very low incidence of cases observed following vaccination, there is currently insufficient 
data to conclude a causal association with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. Based on the current data, MAH 
believes the benefit - risk profile for Janssen Ad26.COV2.S vaccine is positive a cross the population for 
which it  is currently authorized. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 57/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, the  MAH strongly supports making vaccinees aware of the signs and symptoms of this very 
rare event, as well as recommendations to health care professionals to ensure the  early and correct 
diagnosis and treatment  of the  patients and reporting of the  events.  
Therefore, the MAH proposes to amend the Product Information to  include information on these 
observed events, to guide healthcare providers, vaccine recipients and the general pub lic regarding 
when to seek urgent medical attention  and to  guide healthcare providers so that  they can promptly 
diagnose and treat people affected, in line with  available guidelines.  
In the current EU Risk Management Plan (RMP, version 1.4  dated 11 March 2 021),  Venous 
thromboembolism is considered an Important Potential Risk, and events of Deep vein thrombosis and 
Pulmonary embolism, together with Non-hemorrhagic stroke and Hemorrhagic stroke have been 
identified and are monitored as Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI), in addition to events of 
Immune thrombocytopenia and Disseminated intravascular coagulation. The MAH will  further update 
the Safety Concerns section in the  RMP, to add further details on the  events of thrombotic events 
associated with  thrombocytopenia, update the  PV Plan to include the implementation of processes for 
evaluating thromboembolic events in the clinical trials as described in  Question 7  and to  update the 
Risk Minimization  Measures activities accordingly, including proposed ch anges to  the Product 
Information. The MAH  will continue  to monitor these events and assess for additional activities as more 
data becomes available. 
The following is proposed by the  MAH regarding updates of the product information:    
SmPC  
Section 4.4  
Coagulation disorders and thrombocytopenia  
A combination of venous thrombosis and thrombocytopenia has been observed very rarely following 
vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes cerebral venous sinus thrombosis and can 
lead to a fatal outcome. These cases occurred within  the  first three weeks following  vaccination.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical a ttention  if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain or swelling, or progressive 
abdominal pain following  vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological symptoms including 
severe or persistent headaches or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising 
(petechia) beyond the site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.   
Since management may be different than usual medical practice for blood clots, healthcare 
professionals should consult applicable guidance and/or consult  specialists (e.g., haematologists) to 
diagnose and treat this  condition. 
Risk of bleeding with  intramuscular administration   
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
Blood disorders 
A combination of blood clots and low levels of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to clot) in  the blood has 
been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe 
cases with  blood clots and, possibly, bleeding, including in the  brain, and can be fatal. These cases 
occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 58/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seek immediate medical attention  and inform your health  care provider that you have recently 
received COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, if you experience severe or persistent headaches or blurred 
vision, unexplained skin bruising beyond the site of vaccination, develop shortness of breath, chest 
pain, leg pain or swelling, or progressive abdominal pain which appear a few days after vaccination.  
PRAC Rapporteur comments  
Proposed label updates 
The  PRAC Rapporteur  agrees with  the  MAH  that  an  update  of  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC,  as well  as  of 
section  2  of  the  package  leaflet,  is  warranted.  However,  the  proposed  wording  needs  revision  (see 
below).  
In the  proposal from the  MAH,  there is a statement  highligting  that  management of this  condition  may 
differ from usual management of blood clots, and therefore refer HCPs to applicable guiande / specialists 
for diagnosis and treatment. This statement  is fully  supported for section 4.4  of the PI.  
Furthermore,  following  evaluation  of  the  currently  availble data,  there  is  suffient  evidence to ,  with  a 
reasonable possibilty, conclude thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia  being an adverse drug 
reaction of the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen. Therefore, update of section 4.8 is warranted.   
Regarding  the  frequency for  section  4.8,  very rare  (<  1/  10 000)  is  proposed.  This  is  based  on  one 
certain  clinical  study  case, and  one  possible case,  among  a  clinical  safety  database of  approximately 
27,200   vaccinated subjects, which  were part  of the safety assessment at  approval, and who  had been 
evaluated  for  death  and  SAEs 4 .  Although  the  MAH  refers  to  a  total  clinical  study  data  base  of 
approximately 280 000,  the vast majority of these data has not been submitted  to EMA for review, and 
is therefore not considered useful for this estimation of frequency.  
The  PRAC rapporteur’s proposals are as  follows;  with  comments  made to  the  proposal of  the  MAH  as 
also shown  above.  
Deletion – strikethrough. Addition; double underline  
Section 4.4  
Coagulation disorders and t Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders 
A combination of venous thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in some cases accompanied by bleeding, 
has been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes 
venous thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein 
thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis concomitant with  thrombocytopenia. and can lead to a f 
Fatal outcome has been reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following 
vaccination, and mostly in women under 60 years of age.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg  pain or swelling, or progressive 
persistent abdominal pain following  vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological symptoms 
including severe or persistent headaches or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin 
4  EPAR for  COVID-19  Vaccine Janssen, INN-Ad26.COV2-S,  recombinant (europa.eu) 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 59/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bruising (petechia) beyond the site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical 
attention.   
Since management may be different than usual medical practice for  thromboembolic events if  patients 
present with concomitant  thrombocytopenia  blood clots, healthcare professionals should consult 
applicable guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., haematologists,  specialists in coagulation) to 
diagnose and treat this  condition. 
Risk of bleeding with  intramuscular administration   
Section 4.8  
In the Table  
SOC: Vascular disorders: Thrombosis in  combination with thrombocytopenia*  
* *Severe and very rare cases of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia have been 
reported post-marketing. These included venous thrombosis such as cerebral venous sinus th rombosis, 
splanchnic vein thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis (see section 4.4).  
Frequency: Very rare 
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
[…] 
As with any vaccine, vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen may not  fully protect all those who 
receive it. It is not known how long you will be protected. 
Blood disorders 
A combination of blood clots and low levels of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to clot) in  the blood has 
been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe 
cases with  blood clots and, possibly, in unusual locations, such as the brain and liver, in some cases in 
combination with  bleeding, including in the brain, and can be f These cases occurred within  the first 
three weeks following vaccination, and occurred mostly in women below 60 years of age . Fatal 
outcome has been reported. 
Seek immediate medical attention  and inform your health  care provider that you have recently 
received COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, if you experience severe or persistent hea daches or blurred 
vision, unexplained skin bruising beyond the site of vaccination  which appear a few days after 
vaccination, develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain or swelling, or  progressive persistent 
abdominal pain which  appear a few days after vaccination. Inform your health  care provider that you 
have recently received COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Section 4 
Very Rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000  people) - blood clots often in  unusual locations (e.g. brain, 
liver) in  combination with low level of blood platelets 
Risk management plan  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 60/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As the MAH points  out, the current EU RMP (v. 1.4  dated 11  March 2021), VTE is listed as an 
Important Potential Risk, and various relevant terms are monitored as AESI, in addition  to events of 
Immune thrombocytopenia and Disseminated intravascular coagulation.  
The MAH proposes to further update the Safety Concerns section in the RMP, to add further details on 
the events of thrombotic  events associated with  thrombocytopenia, and to  update the PV Plan as 
described in Question 7, and to update the  RMM in line  with  the actions taken for the  PI.  
Details on the  RMP will not be addressed within  this first step of assessment, and thus  not further 
commented here.  
3.1.2.  Case reports from EudraVigilance/received through VAERS 
1. This fatal case concerns a female aged between 38-48,  described as Case 1 in section 2.1 above. 
Summary: prior medical history including depression. 1 wk  after vaccination developed headache and 
hemiparesis. CT revealed severe cerebral haemorrhage + CVST, leading to brain herniation and death. 
Thrombocytopenia also mentioned. 
Additional information: SARS-CoV-2 viral assay negative. PF4  heparin HIT ELISA antibody test was not 
done. Platelet nadir 12,000/mm3. 
2. This case concerns a female aged between 52-62,  described as Case 2 in section 2.1 above. No 
additional information compared to above. Summary: Multiple  co-morbidities, including COPD, 
coronary artery disease, hypertension, hypothyroidism and bipolar disorder. 11 days after the 
vaccination the patient had bruising and leg oedema, with a diagnos e of severe thrombocytopenia (15) 
and extensive DVT. She had an IVC filter placed. The next day the patient developed arterial 
thrombosis as well (superficial femoral and iliac arteries) requiring thrombectomy + stent.  
3. This clinical trial case concerns a male aged between 18-28,  described as Case 3 in  section 2.1 
above. Summary: no significant prior medical history. Received vaccine and had inflammatory 
syndrome the same day (fever, myalgia, fatigue, nausea, headache) that  improved within  3 days 
(except headache). 9 days after vaccination he had a similar inflammatory syndrome (plus abdominal 
pain, sore throat,  chills and rhinorrhea) and the pt took  ibuprofen. Repeated COVID tests were 
negative. Symptoms improved except headache. 18 days after vaccination  the patient had seizures. CT 
scans confirmed cerebral haemorrhage + CVST (2 days later). He  also had moderate 
thrombocytopenia (65).   
Follow-up  adds additional test  results: Anti PF4 antibodies were negative 0.246  (Day 1) and positive 
2.137  (Day 29) and 1.451  (Day 71). On Day 155:  Lyme disease test:  high IgM (interpreted as 
negative), Lupus anticoagulant: normal, N-ELISA: negative. The patient  received heparin which 
complicates interpretation  of anti  -PF4 antibody results. A more definitive causality requires 
confirmation of the PF4 test to  determine if these antibodies are related to  coagulopathy. However, 
based on recent publications including the  Thrombotic Thrombocytopenia after ChAdOx1 nCov -19 
Vaccination published in The New  England Journal of Medicine on 09  April 2021  which suggests an 
evolving scientifically plausible relationship between immunization with  certain COVID -19 vaccines and 
CVST with  thrombocytopenia and platelet factor 4 (PF4)  antibody, the case is considered possibly 
related by the MAH. 
4. This case concerns a female aged between 18-28,  summarised in Late  breaking information above. 
Summary: no previous medical history or family history of clotting disorders. Non -smoker,  no 
concomitant medications. 16 days after vaccination, she developed headache, vomiting and mental 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 61/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
status changes. MRI and CT scan revealed sagittal sinus thrombosis and haemorrhage; Platelet count 
on presentation was 18,000,  fibrinogen was low and fibrin D-dimer was elevated. She developed 
seizures, was given a platelet transfusion in advance of thrombectomy and was anticoagulated 
(specific agent not  provided), after which platelet count rose to 160,000  and fibrinogen was 
normalised. Further  outcome unknown. 
Additional information: SARS-CoV-2 viral assay negative. PF4  heparin HIT ELISA antibody positive 
(optical density 2.7). 
5. Published Gundabolu K et al. Thrombotic Thrombocytopenia Following  Ad26.COV2.S Vaccination, 
New England Journal of Medicine. This concerns a woman aged between 41-51  with unremarkable past 
medical history who received COVID -19 VACCINE AD26.COV2.S (date unknown).  She developed 
malaise and abdominal pain 11  days following vaccination and presented to an emergency room 3 days 
later. Evaluation revealed mild anaemia and severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count,  13,000 per cubic 
millimetre). Peripheral blood smear confirmed marked reduction in platelet count with  occasional 
schistocytes. Other laboratory evaluation showed hypofibrinogenemia (89 mg/dL), prolonged activated 
partial thromboplastin time (41  sec), and marked elevation in D -Dimer (117.5  mg/L),  indicating 
disseminated intravascular coagulation. Nasopharyngeal swab tested negative for SARS -CoV2 by RT-
PCR (polymerase chain reaction). 
CT (computerised tomogram) imaging of abdomen/pelvis which  showed extensive splanchnic vein 
thrombosis. The patient developed a new onset headache, and head CT revea led cerebral venous sinus 
thrombosis (CVST) involving right transverse/straight sinus. Initially,  the hospital was not aware that 
the patient  was recently vaccinated, and initiated  treatment with  unfractionated heparin. She 
developed progressive thrombosis with haemorrhagic stroke evident by MRI (magnetic resonance 
imaging)/MRV of brain while on heparin, with  repeat CT angiography showed new thrombus involving 
right hepatic and splenic veins. 
Upon further inquiry it was noted she had received the Ad26.COV2. S vaccine 14 days before symptom 
onset. Screening test for anti-PF4/heparin  antibodies by latex-enhanced immunoassay was negative; 
results of a PF4/polyanion ELISA were strongly positive (3.179  OD [optical density] units; upper limits 
of normal below or equal to 0.399).  Heparin was switched to argatroban. The patient  was also treated 
with  intravenous immunoglobulin  (1 gm/kg times 2  days). Her platelet count increase from 30,000  to 
145,000  over 5 days. She remained critically ill at time of last report. The  outcome of the mild 
anaemia, severe thrombocytopenia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, cerebral venous sinus 
thrombosis, haemorrhagic stroke, hepatic vein thrombosis, splenic vein thrombosis and splanchnic vein 
thrombosis was not reported. 
Assessor’s comment: additional laboratory tests were reported in the publication  by Gundabolu et al, 
including antiphospholipid  antibodies (lupus anticoagulant, cardiolipin, GpIbeta2 which were all not 
detected/not elevated), normal levels of homocysteine, Factor V III, antithrombin,  protein C, protein S. 
No mutation  regarding Factor V Leiden R506Q or prothrombin G20210A. Hepatitis  B and C as well as 
HIV testing was negative. Bilirubin was 0.5 (ref 0.2-1.3  mg/dL),  LDH  was 354 U/L  (ref 100-250  U/L) 
and haptoglobin was 183 mg/dL  (ref 30-200  mg/dL). ADAMTS 13  activity was normal. PNH  antigen 
was not detected. Janus Kinase 2 gene mutation was not  detected. 
6. This case concerns a female aged between 19-29,  reported to  be overweight (weight/BMI  unknown) 
but  physically active. She has no history or family history of clotting disorder. She is not on any 
medication or birth  control pills. The patient received 1 dose of covid -19 vaccine ad26.cov2.s 
(suspension for injection, route of admin not reported, batch  number: Unknown)  o n an unspecified 
date. Approximately 1 week following vaccination, she developed a severe headache and visited the 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 62/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
emergency department. The patient  was given paracetamol and  antihistamine and sent home. The 
patient continued  to have headaches. Approximate ly another week later, the  patient developed 
abdominal discomfort and rapid heart rate and was seen in the hospital.  Laboratory evaluation 
revealed platelet count of 120,000  (thrombocytopenia), elevated D -Dimer (level unknown)  and normal 
fibrinogen (level unknown). Covid-19 infection was ruled out (exact test unknown). Diagnostic scans 
showed cerebral cavernous sinus thrombosis (coded to cerebral venous sinus thrombosis), portal vein 
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Initial  treatment with  heparin was stop ped and IVIG 
administered after lab result showed positive antibodies to platelet factor 4 (level 3.0).  Platelet count 
was reported to have started increasing prior to IVIG administration.  The patient  spent 1 -1.5  weeks in 
the hospital and was released home on oral anticoagulants.  The outcome of portal vein thrombosis, 
pulmonary embolism, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, thrombocytopenia was recovering. Additional 
follow up information has been requested. 
7. This case concerns a female aged between 31  -41. The patient's height,  and weight were not 
reported. The patient  received covid-19 vaccine ad26.cov2.s (suspension for injection, intramuscular) 
dose was not reported. No concomitant medications were reported. 19 days after vaccination the 
patient was "experiencing headaches 1 week ago", and also had aphasia later in  the week.  On day 16, 
the patient  went to an outside hospital and was found to have intraparenchymal haemorrhage in 
addition to  venous sinus thrombosis and developed intracerebral haematoma. On day 17, 
Computerized tomography (CT) of the  head without  contrast showed parenchymal haemorrhage and 
persistent hyperdensity in the left  transverse sinus, consistent  with known venous sinus thrombosis. 
Treatment medications (dates unspecified) included: heparin. The action taken with  covid -19 vaccine 
ad26.cov2.s was not  applicable. The outcome of the experiencing headaches 1 week ago, intracerebral 
haematoma and venous sinus thrombosis was not reported. The case  will  be assessed further when 
additional information is received. 
Further information: thrombocytopenia (platelet nadir 69,000/mm 3).  PF4 heparin HIT  ELISA antibody 
positive (optical density 1.2). SARS-CoV-2 viral assay negative. 
8. This case concerns an adult  male patient  (greater than 50 years old). The patient's weight,  height, 
and medical history were not  reported. The patient received Covid -19 vaccine AD26.Cov2.S 
(suspension for injection, intramuscular, batch number was not reported) dose and site of vaccination 
were not  reported, administered for prophylactic vaccination. No concomitant  medications were 
reported. On an unspecified date in  2021, the patient  experienced deep vein thrombosis (DVT), 
pulmonary embolism (PE), and kidney bleeding. The patient  was admitted to the hospital  and was 
treated with  heparin as well as an inferior vena cava (IVC) filter (put  in after he experienced bleeding 
from his  kidney). 
Laboratory data included: a negative COVID -19 virus test, and throughout  hospitalization his platelet 
count (NR:  not provided) was normal: 191,000  and 264,000  (units  not provided). The patient's  test 
came back positive for one copy of the Factor  V Leiden mutation  which predisposed him to blood clots.  
At the time of this  report, the patient  was still hospitalized but  doing well. The patient  was recovering 
from DVT, pulmonary embolism, and kidney bleeding 
9. This case concerns a female aged between 21-31  who received the covid-19 vaccine ad26.cov2.s. 
Prescriptions being taken at the time of vaccinatio n was oral contraceptive pill. She presented with  a 
"viral syndrome" including fevers, rigors, muscle pain and shortness of breath. Fever persisted for 1 
day after ER visit, but  she continued to  feel badly. The following day, she was awakened with  severe 
R>L jaw pain, post HA with  standing, pain in  the cartilage on the tip  of her nose and shortness of 
breath. Shortness of breath resolved by day 12.  HAS persisted as did  jaw pain and pain behind her 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 63/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
eyes. On day 11  she noted increasing bruising and periorbita l petechiae which  continued through when 
she sought help from her PcP. She was noted to have bilateral leg swelling  R>>L. She had labs and a 
Doppler US. She had a syncopal spell on and was brought  to ER at where she was diagnosed with 
sagittal vein thrombosis, RLE DVT and thrombocytopenia. Medical tests  and laboratory results related 
to the adverse event(s): Plt count 125K;  Plt ct 34K, smear reviewed, no clumping, no schistocytes. 
Ordered hypercoag panel, ANA and Anti PF4/HIT  (awaiting all results) CT and MRI of head with  dural 
sinus thrombosis, Duplex US with  RLE thrombosis. At the time of reporting, the patient had not 
recovered from the adverse events. 
Additional information: platelet nadir 10,000/mm 3.  PF4 heparin HIT ELISA antibody positive (optical 
density 1.2). SARS-CoV-2 viral assay negative. 
PRAC Rapporteur comment: updated 
Out of the 9 cases found in  EudraVigilance and received through VAERS, concomitant  thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia was reported in  8 of these; in one case, platelet levels were normal. It  is recognised 
that  a although  thrombosis in a setting  of classical HIT does not  have to result in thrombocytopenia (a 
decrease in platelet levels >50% from baseline is also considered suggestive of HIT, which could thus 
occur also with  platelet levels within  the normal range), the case with normal platelet levels has not 
been considered further. 
For the 8 cases with  concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, 7  cases were females and 1 was 
male. Age distribution  was 18-59 years. Cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis (CVST) were reported in 7 
cases. Arterial femoral thrombosis in addition  to deep vein thrombosis was reported in  one case.  
Concomitant thrombosis in addition to  CVST was reported in 3 cases, including  portal vein thrombosis 
+ pulmonary embolism, splanchnic vein thrombosis and deep vein thrombosis.  Concomitant bleeding 
was reported in 6 cases. 
Platelet counts ranged from 10,000/cmm  to 120,000/cmm  (normal range 150,000-400,000/cmm). 
Elevated D-dimer values were reported in  several cases, which is expected in  patients with  acute 
thrombosis, however, notably high levels were reported in some cases . In three of the  cases, 
disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) was reported or is considered likely based on provided 
lab values (primarily a combination of thrombocytopenia, increased D -dimer, decreased fibrinogen, 
prolonged aPTT and/or prolonged prothrombin time). 
There was no reported significant medical history in 6 of the cases with  concomitant thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia. One case had a history of depression (treated with  fluoxetine); one reported 
multiple co-morbidities (including  coronary artery disease / hypertension / asthma / COPD / bipolar / 
depression / hypothyroidism). One female patient  was taking oral contraceptives. 
For the case in  the clinical trial, female aged between 18-28,  the finding  of negative anti-PF 4 
antibodies at baseline that  were positive on day 29 are of high  interest. The comment that  the patient 
received heparin which complicates interpretation of anti-PF4  antibody results is not  considered to 
explain this  finding; based on the  clinical scenario, the patie nt presented with thrombocytopenia before 
heparin was initiated,  and the platelet count  improved despite heparin treatment. Therefore, in light  of 
recent findings with  anti-PF 4 antibodies having been detected and found pathogenic in patients with 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia following vaccination with another adenoviral vector COVID -19 
vaccine, the development of such antibodies, in addition to  the overall clinical and laboratory picture, is 
considered to strongly strengthen an association with  the vacc ine. 
Positive antibodies to platelet  factor 4 was found in five additional cases. There is no case report in 
which anti-PF4  antibodies were analysed and not  found positive. In a minority of the  cases, a detailed 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 64/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
work-up has been provided, excluding potential factors of interest including  no antiphospholipid 
antibodies; normal ADAMTS13; no JAK2 gene mutation;  normal levels of homocysteine, Factor VIII, 
antithrombin,  protein C, protein S; no Factor V Leiden R506Q mutation  or prothrombin gene mutation. 
SARS-CoV2 was tested in  3 of the  cases, all of which  were negative. 
Deterioration during heparin treatment was reported for one case; in two cases with  concomitant 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, platelet count  was reported to have started increasing during 
treatment with  heparin. For the case with  deterioration during  heparin treatment, the  patient was 
diagnosed with  disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and anti -PF4/heparin antibodies by latex-
enhanced immunoassay was negative; results of a PF4/polyanion  ELISA were strongly positive. 
It is currently unknown whether treatment with  heparin could be used or should be avoided in patients 
with  thrombotic thrombocytopenia following  COVID -19 vaccination. One argument against use of 
heparin is the  clinical similarity to  HIT (heparin induced thrombocytopenia), in which heparin is part of 
the antigen complex against which  the anti-PF4/heparin-antibodies  can bind, and thus,  in HIT, heparin 
treatment must  be stopped. However, for patients with  thrombotic  thrombocytope nia following 
vaccination, it has been found that  the anti-PF4-antibodies  are not  similar to the  ones in HIT; rather, 
they are directed towards PF4  only. 
For one of the  post-marketing cases with  multiple  thromboses including CVST and thrombocytopenia, 
progressive thromboses were noted during heparin treatment. However, it  cannot be concluded 
whether this was due to heparin or despite heparin. This patient was diagnosed with  DIC, which  is 
well-known to be difficult  to treat regardless of underlying disease o r coagulation disorder, and anti-
PF4/heparin antibodies by latex-enhanced immunoassay was negative in that  case. There are two 
other cases (one post-marketing case and one clinical study case) in which  platelet numbers started to 
increase during treatment with  heparin. 
In HIT, effective anticoagulation could be difficult in cases with  severe thrombocytopenia and/or 
bleeding. The labelled anticoagulant therapies for HIT (such as argatroban, danaparoid) are not 
available in many hospitals and warrant certain considerations for correct use. Treatment with  other 
agents is therefore sometimes used, e g fondaparinux and bivalirudin, however , such treatment  is 
strictly considered off-label for HIT. Oral anticoagulation in a patient with  thrombocytopenia is not 
straightforward; vitamin K antagonists are not recommended in HIT or similar clinical entities  due to 
the initial  decrease in protein C associated with  these agents, which could aggravate thromboses 
initially. The DOACs could be an alternative but would  likely  no be considered in  an unstable patient  or 
a patient with  severe thrombocytopenia at high risk of bleeding. 
For patients with  thrombosis without  thrombocytopenia after vaccination, there would  be no or very 
low suspicion of the specific syndrome of thrombotic thrombocytopenia (again, in  HIT, one diagnostic 
criteria is a 50% platelet  count decrease from baseline thus  potentially allowing for values within  the 
normal range – whether this could be the case for thrombotic thrombocytopenia associated with  
vaccination is unknown).  The majority of patients with  thromboses after vaccination will  not have 
concomitant thrombocytopenia. Any message to avoid heparin could potentially cause a delay in 
effective anticoagulation also in these patients. 
In patients with  concomitant thrombosis and bleeding in  whom anticoagulation is considered 
warranted, an ideal anticoagulant agent should be readily available, familiar to  use, and have a rapid 
onset, short half-life and an effective antidote.  To date, the only agents in many situations that  fulfil 
these criteria reasonably well are heparins. The knowledge about thrombotic thrombocytopenia after 
vaccination against COVID-19 is growing rapidly and treatment guidelines/advice are frequently 
updated. Based on the currently available data, it cannot be concluded neither how these patients 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 65/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should be optimally managed nor whether heparin is safe and effective or not. Therefore, the 
Rapporteur proposes not to  specifically give advice to avoid heparin in patients  with thrombotic  
thrombocytopenia neither in the  product information nor in the  DHPC. However, it should be clearly 
stated that  specialist advice (such as haematologists or coagulation expertise) should be consulted in 
the diagnosis and treatment of suspected thrombotic thrombocytopenia after vaccination. This is also 
considered to be the most long-lasting  wording. 
In addition, for patients with  thrombosis without  thrombocytopenia after vaccination, there would be 
no or very low suspicion of the specific syndrome of thromb otic thrombocytopenia (again, in HIT, one 
diagnostic criteria is a 50% platelet  count decrease from baseline thus  potentially allowing for values 
within  the normal range – whether this  could be the case for thrombotic thrombocytopenia associated 
with  vaccination is unknown).  The majority of patients  with thromboses after vaccination will not  have 
concomitant thrombocytopenia. Any message to avoid heparin could potentially cause a delay in 
effective anticoagulation also in these patients. 
In conclusion, there are currently 8 reported cases in EV and VAERS, all originating from the  US, with 
concomitant thromboembolism (primarily CVST) and thrombocytopenia. T he majority (7  out of 8 
cases) are females, with  age range 18-59  years. There are no findings with  regards to previous disease 
or concomitant treatment that  are suggestive of any common risk factors for developing the 
combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia ; the majority had no medical history and no 
medication. Work-up includes anti-PF4  antibodies in 6 cases, all of which were found positive/strongly 
positive. It is currently unclear if platelet activation testing has been performed; however, a strongly 
positive ELISA result is considered highly suggestive of anti-PF4-antibodies  being a causative factor. 
Extensive work-up was provided in only a minority of the cases, however, no findings suggestive of an 
alternative cause were found in any of these. For the  clinical trial case with  a male patient aged 
between 18-28  with CVST, thrombocytopenia and cerebral haemorrhage, it is noted that  he did not 
have any anti-PF4-antibodies  prior to vaccination but developed these in conjunction with  symptoms of 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia; this is considered to  strongly support an association with the 
vaccine. 
3.1.3.  EVDAS Search Summary 
SMQ  Embolic and Thrombotic events SMQ  (DLP:  14/04/2021) 
•  Search at the level of SMQ Haemorrhages in EVDAS (DLP 14/04/2021)  retrieved 33 cases in 
association with  Covid-19 Janssen vaccine. 
•  Of the 33 cases, the  following events were reported: 
o  Myocardial Infarction (n=5); 
o  Cerebrovascular accident (n=6); 
o  Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) + pulmonary embolism (PE) (n=1); 
o  PE (n=1); 
o  DVT (n=1); 
o  Hemiplegia (n=1); 
o  Coronary artery stent insertion (n=1); 
o  Hemiparesis (n=2); 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 66/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Blindness transient (n=1); 
o  Thrombosis (n=1); 
o  Peripheral embolism (n=1); 
o  Myocardial infarction & thrombosis (n=1); 
o  Renal infarct (n=1); 
o  Capillary leak syndrome, DIC, distributive  shock, renal disorder (n=1);  
o  Retinal vein thrombosis (n=1); 
o  DVT, PE, Renal haemorrhage (n=1); 
o  Superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, cerebral haemorrhage, thrombocytopenia (n=1)  
o  Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, cerebral haematoma, headache (n=1);  
o  Cerebral venous thrombosis, cerebral haemorrhage, cerebral haemorrhage, 
thrombocytopenia (n=1);    
o  CVST, DIC, hepatic vein thrombosis, splenic vein thrombosis, haemorrhagic stroke, 
visceral venous thrombosis (n=1); 
o  CVST, PE, portal vein thrombosis, thrombocytopenia (n=1); 
o  Transverse sinus thrombosis, cerebral haemorrhage, thrombocytopenia (n=1);  
o  DVT, peripheral artery occlusion, peripheral artery thrombosis, thrombocytopenia 
(n=1) 
•  One potential duplicate identified. 
•  Of the 33 cases, 6 were fatal.  
•  Seven cases of interest were identified from EVDAS including: 
o  Superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, cerebral haemorrhage, thromb ocytopenia (n=1) 
o  Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST), cerebral haematoma(n=1);  
o  CVST, cerebral haemorrhage, thrombocytopenia (n=1);    
o  CVST, Disseminated Intravascular coagulation, hepatic vein thrombosis, splenic vein 
thrombosis, haemorrhagic stroke, visceral venous thrombosis (n=1); 
o  CVST, Pulmonary embolism (PE), portal vein thrombosis, thrombocytopenia (n=1);  
o  Transverse sinus thrombosis, cerebral haemorrhage, thrombocytopenia (n=1);  
o  Deep vein thrombosis, peripheral artery occlusion, peripheral artery thrombosis, 
thrombocytopenia (n=1) 
•  An additional index case of sagittal  vein thrombosis, right lower extremity (RLE)  DVT& 
thrombocytopenia was received from FDA. 
•  Gender: Male (n=1),  Female (n=7). 
• 
Fatal:  fatal (n=1), non-fatal (n=7) 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 67/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  One clinical trial case, 7 post-marketing reports. All originate from the US.  
•  Median Time to onset (TTO) of first  symptoms: 8 days; 
•  Median Time to onset (TTO) of first  thromboembolic (TE) event: 14 days;  
•  Anti-PF4  antibodies: 
o  Of note, information regarding positive anti-PF4  antibodies is available in the  ICSRs 
submitted  for 3 cases.  
o  No information specified for the remaining four cases submitted  to EVDAS.  
o  Diagnostic data received on the 19th of April which  revealed that anti-PF4  antibodies 
were detected in an additional three cases. 
•  An overview of the cases is presented in table 1A below.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 68/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1A shows a summary over cases in Eudra Vigilance (updated based on additional  diagnostic data received on the 19 th April) 
  Case  1 
Case  2 
Case  3 
Case  4 
Case  5 
Case  6 
Case  7  
Case  8* 
Age 
Gender 
Country 
Source 
Fatal 
Co-
morbidities 
Concomitant 
medication 
18-28 
F 
US 
Physician, 
consumer, 
pharmacist 
No 
None 
52-62 
F 
US 
Consumer 
No 
None 
Multiple  
31-41 
F 
US 
Consumer 
No 
Amoxicillin 
allergy 
Not reported 
38-48 
F 
US 
Consumer, 
other HCP 
Yes 
Depression 
19-29 
F 
US 
Consumer, 
physician 
41-51 
F 
US 
Physician, 
consumer, 
other HCP 
No 
Unremarkable   Not reported 
No 
Fluoxetine 
Not reported 
None 
COPD, 
Coronary 
artery disease, 
Hypertension 
11 
Risk factors 
No apparent 
risk factors  
TTO 1st 
symptoms 
(days) 
First 
symptoms 
16 
Headaches, 
vomiting, 
mental status 
changes 
No apparent 
risk factors 
No apparent 
risk factors 
Obesity (BMI: 
39.68) 
Over-weight 
(BMI: NOS) 
9 
7 
11 
7 
0 
6 
Bruising, left 
leg swelling  
Headache, 
aphasia 
Headache 
Malaise, 
abdominal pain 
Headache 
TTO 1st TE 
event (days) 
TE event 
16 
11 
16 
Sagittal sinus 
thrombosis 
Deep vein 
thrombosis, 
Peripheral 
artery 
thrombosis 
Cerebral 
venous sinus 
thrombosis 
(CVST) 
12 
CVST 
14 
14 
Disseminated 
intravascular 
coagulation, 
CVST, hepatic 
vein 
PE, portal vein 
thrombosis, 
CVST  
Transverse 
sinus 
thrombosis 
Sagittal vein 
thrombosis, 
Right lower 
extremity 
(RLE) DVT 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 69/156 
18-28 
M 
US 
Physician, 
consumer 
No 
None 
Ibuprofen 
(400mg as 
required) for 9 
days (initiated 
9 days post-
vaccination), 
Naproxen 
1000mg    
Significant 
stenosis in 
right sigmoid 
21-31 
F 
US 
HCP (NOS) 
No 
None 
COC 
No apparent 
risk factors 
Fatigue, 
nausea, 
headache 
(moderate), 
myalgia, fever 
(38.2) 
18 
“Viral 
syndrome”: 
fever, rigors, 
muscle pain, 
shortness  of 
breath (SOB) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Case  1 
Case  2 
Case  3 
Case  4 
Case  5 
Case  6 
Case  7  
Case  8* 
thrombosis, 
splenic vein 
thrombosis, 
visceral venous 
thrombosis 
Haemorrhagic 
stroke 
Intracerebral 
haemorrhage, 
intracerebral 
haematoma 
Yes (12,000) 
Yes (13,000) 
Yes (127,000) 
Intraparenchy
mal 
haemorrhage, 
cerebral 
haematoma 
Yes (69,000) 
Haemorrhage  Cerebral 
haemorrhage 
Gross 
haematuria 
Yes (18,000) 
Yes (N/S) 
Thrombocyto
penia 
(Platelet 
count) 
Anti-PF4 
antibodies 
Positive (2.7) 
N/S 
Positive (1.2) 
N/S 
Strongly 
positive 
(ELISA) 
Positive (3.0) 
D-dimer 
Elevated (NOS)  N/S 
Fibrinogen 
Low (NOS) 
N/S 
ADAMTS13 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
Elevated 
(117,512ng/ml
) 
Low (89mg/dL)  N/S 
72% 
N/S 
Peripheral 
blood smear 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
N/S 
SARS-COV2 
infection 
Treatment 
Negative (test 
NOS) 
“British 
guidelines” 
-platelet 
transfusion, 
thrombectomy, 
Bilateral 
thrombectomy, 
bilateral 
common iliac 
Negative (test 
NOS) 
N/S 
Negative (test 
NOS) 
N/S 
Occasional 
schistocytes 
N/S 
Negative PCR 
Intravenous 
(IV) 
Immunoglobuli
n (1g/kg 2 
times per day) 
Negative (test 
NOS) 
IV 
Immunoglobuli
n 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 70/156 
Cerebral 
haemorrhage 
(right temporo- 
occipital 
haematoma 
Yes (64,000) 
Peri-orbital 
haemorrhage 
Yes (10,000) 
Positive (1.2) 
N/S 
N/S 
No clumping, 
no schistocytes 
Negative (test 
NOS) 
N/S 
Negative 
(0.246) prior 
to vaccination, 
Positive 
(2.137) 31 
days post 
vaccination 
N/S 
154mg/dL (18 
days post 
vaccination)  
TTP/ 
ADAMTS13 
gene mutation 
negative 
Neutrophilic 
leucocytosis, 
no blasts 
3 negative PCR 
tests 
Thrombectomy
, Angioplasty 
on stenosed 
sinus, 2nd 
thrombectomy,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Case  1 
Case  2 
Case  3 
Case  4 
Case  5 
Case  6 
Case  7  
Case  8* 
Anti-epileptics 
Anticoagulant  Anticoagulant 
(NOS) 
stent 
placement.  
N/S 
Heparin 
N/S 
Heparin which 
was switched 
to argatroban 
after anti-PF4 
antibodies 
detected 
Not recovered 
Unknown 
Death 
Critically ill 
Outcome at 
time of report 
Recovered 
from 
thrombocytope
nia, outcome 
of sagittal 
sinus 
thrombosis and 
cerebral 
haemorrhage 
unknown 
. Not identified in EVDAS (DLP: 14/04/2021) 
Heparin 
(stopped after 
anti-PF4 
antibodies 
detected), 
Discharged on 
oral 
anticoagulants 
(NOS) 
Hospitalisation 
for 1-1.5 
weeks. 
Discharged 
home. 
ASA, Heparin 
(LMWH)+ 
tissue 
plasminogen 
activator 
(tPA)+heparin 
drips, apixiban 
Recovered 
(back to work 
& doing very 
well five 
months post 
vaccination).   
N/S 
Not recovered 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 71/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SMQ  Haemorrhages  (DLP:  14/04/2021) 
•  Search at the level of SMQ Haemorrhages in EVDAS (DLP 14/04/2021)  retrieved 13 cases in 
association with  Covid-19 Janssen vaccine. 
•  Of these, 8 were previously identified via a search at the  level of SMQ Embolic and thrombotic 
events SMQ (i.e. co-reported with  events of thrombosis). 
• 
The remaining 5 cases concerned consumer reports which reported:  
o  Uterine haemorrhage (n=1) 
o  Hematemesis (n=1) 
o  Contusion (n=1) 
o  Epistaxis (n=1) 
o  Henoch Schoenlein Purpura (n=1) 
•  Of the 5 cases, 4 were subject to  limited information which precluded causality assessment and 
one was confounded by medical history.  
HLT Thrombocytopenia (DLP:  14/04/2021) 
•  Search at the level of HLT  Haemorrhages in EVDAS (DLP 14/04/2021)  retrieved 5 cases in 
association with  Covid-19 Janssen vaccine. 
•  All 5 were previously identified via a search at  the level of SMQ Embolic and thrombotic  events 
SMQ (i.e. co-reported with  events of thrombosis). 
SMQ  Haematopoietic  cytopenias (DLP:  14/04/2021) 
•  Search at the level of SMQ Haematopoietic cytopenias in EVDAS (DLP 14/04/2021)  retrieved 8 
cases in association with Covid-19 Janssen vaccine. 
•  Of these, 5 were previously identified via a search at the  level of SMQ Embolic and thrombotic 
events SMQ (i.e. co-reported with  events of thrombosis). 
• 
The remaining 3 cases were concern consumer reports and include events of:  
o  Platelet count decreased; 
o  White blood cell count decreased; 
o  Lymphocyte count  decreased &granulocyte count increased  
•  Of the three reports one was subject to limited  information and two were confounded+ subject 
to limited  information.  
3.1.3.1.  Opinions of EMA neurology and haematology  experts  
Opinion of neurology expert  (EMA) 
Case  reference 
Case 1 
Expert opinion 
Cerebral  venous  sinus 
thrombosis  +  Lobar  haemorrhage  + 
thrombocytopenia  (18000)  in  a  female  aged  between  18-28  non-
smoker healthy  person. It  is  remarkable that  no  oral contraceptives 
and  no  personal/familial  history  of  clotting.  The  information  on  oral 
contraception/smoking  status  is  relevant  as  they  can  both  increase 
(synergic) risk for thrombosis. 
From  the  narrative,  it  looks  like  the  course  was  unusually  acute 
(headache + mental status  changes on the  same day after 16 days of 
vaccination).  The diagnosis of CVST and L-H is done at the same time. 
In fact, the vomiting + mental status changes + seizures are probably 
due to  L-H.  Either  the  headache due  to  CVST was  not there  or it  was 
not  reported. It may be also the  case that  the  thrombocytopenia was 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 72/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case  reference 
Expert opinion 
developed  fast  leading  to  the  spontaneous  L-H  that  dominated  the  
clinical course.  
Case 2 
Case 4 
Case 5 
Case 6 
Outcome unknown  but  it  can be  understood that  she was  transferred 
while intubated->  Likely not recovered.  
Cerebral venous  sinus  thrombosis  +  Portal  thrombosis  +  Pulmonary 
embolism + thrombocytopenia (120000) in a female aged between 19-
29  healthy  person.  It  is  said  overweight,  but  I  assume  not  due  to  
central obesity. Again, No oral contraceptives.  
From the narrative, this follows the more typical sub-acute course +7D 
of  vaccine  with  a  new  and  severe  headache  not  responding  to 
analgesics followed  after  some days  by  other  symptoms  in  this  case 
abdominal pain (no further CNS symptoms in this case). The subacute 
course should  serve as an  opportunity  ->  new headache in  a person 
who  has  not  regular  headache +  no  improvement  with  analgesia  is 
suspicious.  
Antibodies to platelet factor 4 (she was treated with  heparin). 
Platelet  count  was  reported to  have  started  increasing  prior  to  IVIG 
administration. 
Outcome recovering and she was released home.   
Cerebral  venous  sinus  thrombosis  +  Hemispheric  haemorrhage  + 
thrombocytopenia  (levels  NA)  in  female  aged  between  38-48  with 
depression.  Unknow 
pregnancies  and 
personal/familial history of clotting.  Prior treatments: Fluoxetine.    
status 
about 
prior 
The  diagnosis  encompasses  two  CNS 
  Hemispheric 
haemorrhage +  Cerebral  venous  sinus  thrombosis  diagnosed  at  the 
same  time  (+11D)  by  neuroimaging  following  the  cortical  CNS 
symptoms.  
findings: 
However, from the narrative, the most likely scenario is  
(1)  Subacute  course  of  the  Cerebral  venous  sinus  thrombosis -> 
Headache  +  7D.  It  is  unknown  whether  she  seeked  for  attention. 
Severity of headache is unknown // response to analgesia unknown as 
well. 
(2)  Hemispheric  haemorrhage ->  worsening  headache (due  to  mass 
effect= new  bleeding) +  hemiparesis. Of  note main  arteries were  not 
aneurysms. 
primarily 
Thrombocytopenia (unknown  value) seems  to  be the  plausible cause 
of a spontaneous haemorrhage  
No  malformations. 
affected. 
No 
Outcome: death  
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis + thrombocytopenia (125000)  in a 
female aged between 21-31  apparently healthy person.  
Subacute course (+6D) of a diffuse syndrome (Vira l syndrome) 
followed by a headache (pain behind the eyes). No focal CNS signs.   
Petechiae.  
Outcome: not recovered.  
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis + Hemispheric haemorrhage + in a 
female aged between 31-41  apparently healthy person. No 
concomitant medication. Level of platelets unknown.  
From the narrative, this  follows the more typical sub-acute course 
+7D of vaccine with  a new headache only followed later by a CNS 
focal sign (aphasia) after another week (+14-16years). 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 73/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case  reference 
Expert opinion 
Treated with  heparin.  
Again, the diagnosis of Hemispheric haemorrhage + Cerebral venous 
sinus thrombosis was likely done at the  same time but  the narrative 
suggests a pattern similar to  another case. Cerebral venous sinus 
thrombosis (headache only) + Hemispheric haemorrhage (aphasia)  
Outcome unknown.  
New case lit  publication.  
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis + Hemispheric haemorrhage + 
Splanchnic/hepatic/splenic thrombosis + thrombocytopenia (13000) 
+ DIC in  a female aged between 41-51  apparently healthy person. 
Narrative +11  D abdominal pain + thrombocytopenia +  schistocytes. 
After the abdominal pain, the  patient presented new onset of 
headache (CVST). She was treated with  heparin and developed a 
Hemispheric haemorrhage 
Treated with  IgIV. ->  Platelet level increased.  
Outcome remarkable ill  
Opinion of haematology  expert  in EMA  
Case  Reference 
Case 1:  
Case 2:  
Case 3:  
Case 4:  
Case 5:  
Expert opinion 
A male aged between 18-28  without  significant  prior medical history. 
Received vaccine and had inflammatory syndrome the  same day (fever, 
myalgia, fatigue, nausea, headache) that  improved within  3 days 
(except headache). 9 days after vaccination he had a similar 
inflammatory syndrome (plus abdominal pain, sore throat, chills  and 
rhinorrhoea) and the pt took ibuprofen. Repeated COVID tests were 
negative. Symptoms improved except headache. 18 days after 
vaccination the patient had seizures. CT scans confirmed cerebral 
haemorrhage + CVST (2 days later). He also had moderate 
thrombocytopenia (65).  CVST + cerebral bleeding + thrombocytopenia 
suggests aHIT-like syndrome 
A female aged between 52-62  with multiple  co-morbidities, 11 days 
after the vaccination the  patient had bruising and leg oedema, with a 
diagnose of severe thrombocytopenia (15) and extensive DVT → IVC 
filter placed. The next day the  patient developed arterial thrombosis as 
well (superficial femoral and iliac arteries) requiring thrombectomy + 
stent.  The thrombotic  events are not  unusual in themselves (i.e. 
frequent locations), but the  coexistence of venous + arterial thrombosis 
+ thrombocytopenia is unusual  and consistent  with aHIT -like syndrome 
A female aged between 38-48  with prior medical history including 
depression. 1 wk after vaccination developed headache and hemiparesis. 
CT revealed severe cerebral haemorrhage + CVST, leading to brain 
herniation and death. Thrombocytopenia is also mentioned (severity 
unknown). The coexistence of CVST + bleeding + thrombocytopenia is 
unusual and consistent with  aHIT-like syndrome. 
A female aged between 18-28,,  with  no prior medical history. 2 wks 
after vaccination she developed headache, vomiting and altered mental 
status.  CT revealed CVST + intracranial ble eding + severe 
thrombocytopenia (18).  The pt eventually developed seizures → 
(sedated), requiring anticoagulants,  platelet transfusions and 
thrombectomy. The case is consistent  with aHIT-like syndrome 
A female aged between 19-29,  with  no prior medical history (overweight 
but  healthy. 1  wk after vaccination she developed headache, and 2 wks 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 74/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case  Reference 
Case 6:  
Case 7:  
Case 8:  
Expert opinion 
after vaccination abdominal pain was added. Imaging tests revealed 
CVST + portal vein thrombosis +  PE +  mild thrombocytopenia (120). 
PF4 Abs+ → heparin stopped and IVIg initiated  + oral anticoagulants. 
Platelets improved upon heparin discontinuation  (+ IVIg). The case is 
consistent with  aHIT-like syndrome 
A female aged between 31-41,  with  no prior medical history. 9 days 
after vaccination she developed headache followed by aphasia → 
intracranial bleeding + CVST. Platelets not  mentioned. It could be aHIT, 
but  platelets unknown. 
A female aged between 41-51,  with  no prior medical history. 11 days 
after vaccination she presented with  abdominal pain. Blood tests 
revealed severe thrombocytopenia (13) but also signs of DIC 
(schistocytes, low fibrinogen, prolonged aPTT, increased DD). Imaging 
studies revealed SVT. Headache also appeared → CVST also diagnosed. 
Heparin did not seem to  improve matters and PF4  Abs were positive 
(ELISA) → heparin stopped and IVIg + argatroban initiated  → 
improvement in platelet  count. This is a very severe case of aHIT -like 
syndrome, including SVT + CVST + DIC. 
A female aged between 21-31  with no prior medical history. 1 day after 
vaccination she developed severe inflammatory syndrome (fever, rigors, 
myalgia). 11  days after vaccination she noted bruising, leg swelling and 
syncope → CVST + DVT +  thrombocytopenia (severity unknown. This is 
suggestive of aHIT-like syndrome. 
PRAC Rapporteur comment: 
Based on the EVDAS search, seven cases of interest from the  SMQ Embolic and thrombotic  events 
were found; these are included in  section 3.1.2  and further discussed there. It is assumed that  the 
other reports (26/33)  that  were not  deemed of interest did not  include any embolic and thrombotic 
events with  concomitant thrombocytopenia. Notably, not only unusual locations of thrombi are of 
interest for this signal but any thrombosis in any location in which  thrombocytopenia is reported should 
be included among cases of interest. 
For the SMQs Haemorrhages and Haematopoietic cytopenias and the HLT Thrombocytopenia, no new 
cases were identified  in which there was sufficient information to suspect a relation to the Covid -19 
Janssen vaccine (excluding cases with  confounding). 
The opinions of the  EMA neurology and haematology experts are fully concurred; however, the 
Rapporteur proposes to avoid the terminology a-HIT-like for the  further review since both  the 
knowledge and the terminology of the combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia following 
COVID-19 vaccination are rapidly evolving. The course in one of the cases of very acute onset of illness 
with  severe thrombocytopenia concomitant with  CVST and intracerebral bleeding  is found worrisome; 
for the other reports, a more sub-acute course is noted which could enable medical attention  and 
treatment in time  to avoid further deterioration. Outcome is unknown or not yet recovering in the 
majority of cases, with  only two cases reported to be recovering so far.  
3.1.4.  PRAC Rapporteur discussion updated 
At the approval of the CMA for Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen on 11 March 2021,  “Venous 
thromboembolism” was included as important potential  risk in the RMP, due to a numerical imbalance 
of venous thromboembolism observed in the main clinical study,  VAC31518COV3001.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 75/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On 12 March 2021,  a signal procedure regarding thrombotic  and embolic events was started for 
another adenovirus vector Covid-19 vaccine, which recently has been finalised 5. During that 
assessment, very rare cases showing a combination of thrombosis a nd thrombocytopenia, and in  some 
cases accompanied by bleeding, have gained particular attention.   
For the Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen, a signal procedure was started at the PRAC meeting held on 6 -9 
April 2021, due to at that  time in total  four cases with suc h unusual clinical characteristics of 
thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia, occurring after vaccination with  this vaccine.  
On 15 April 2021, the  MAH responded to questions,  and the  PRAC rapporteur also received further 
information from the  EMA regarding data in EudraVigilance. The latter was updated on 17 April 2021.   
The PRAC Rapporteur assessment to be sent to the PRAC on 19  April 2021,  is the first step in the 
further evaluation of this  signal. As agreed with  the EMA on 15 April 2021,  the aim  of this  first step is 
to review of cases of unusual thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia, and taking experience 
gained from a recently finalised signal evaluation 6, and based on that,  evaluate the need for updates of 
the product information, as well as the  need for additional risk minimisation measures. For the AR to 
be sent out on 19 April, 17 April 2021 is the  cut-off for new data. 
A more in-depth evaluation of any mechanistic aspects, as well as of the  pharmacovigilance plan, and 
thereby the  responses to Q7, will be undertaken in the second step of the  assessment of the  MAH 
responses. In addition, review of laboratory results from clinical studies and post-marketing on 
conditions not  predominantly related to  the combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia will be 
assessed in more depth in the  second step as well.   
Post marketing exposure  
Regarding cumulative (US) post-marketing exposure, the MAH refers to the  Center of Disease Control 
(CDC), which reports a total  of 7,688,499  doses of the  C OVID-19 vaccine Janssen being used as of 15 
April 2021.  
As of 12  April 2021  (of a total  of 6,453,740  doses), it  is estimated, that  approximately 66.5.%  of 
recipients of the  Janssen COVID-19 vaccine were in the 18 to 59  -year age group and approximately 
33.5%  of recipients were in the  ≥60-year age group. However, this estimation appears based on use 
of all vaccines, and is therefore uncertain.   
The MAH has also specified the approximate number of individuals being within  the 21 -day post 
vaccination period as of 13 April; namely 2,489,153  individuals. Although not entirely clear what is 
meant, review of the cumulative presentation above, this exact number of subjects appear to  have 
been more than three weeks ago, and thus  possibly having past the main risk w indow  for this  unusual 
clinical event.  
By end of March 2021, the  clinical study exposure is estimated to about 286  000 subjects with  the 
Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen, and more than  200 000  individuals with the  Ad26 platform.  In the 
evaluation supporting the CMA on 11 March 2021,  approximately 27,200 vaccinated subjects had been 
assessed in clinical studies for death and SAEs 7. Since the additional clinical study data referred to by 
the MAH  have not been assessed by EMA, the  safety data base within  the CMA is  most relevant one. 
5 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/prac-recommendation/signal-assessment-report-embolic-thrombotic-events-
smq-covid-19-vaccine-chadox1-s-recombinant_en.pdf 
6 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/prac-recommendation/signal-assessment-report-embolic-thrombotic-events-
smq-covid-19-vaccine-chadox1-s-recombinant_en.pdf 
7 EPAR  for COVID-19  Vaccine Janssen, INN-Ad26.COV2-S,  recombinant (europa.eu) 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 76/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Laboratory evaluations  
Questions (Q2, Q3, parts of Q4) were raised regarding laboratory results from clinical studies and from 
post-marketing data, regarding e.g. thrombocytopenia. Further  data presentation is asked for to allow 
final assessment of whether thrombocytopenia without  thrombosis or bleeding, may be caused by the 
Covid-19 vaccine Janssen. Also, further laboratory data are warranted for cases with  thromboembolic 
events in  the clinical studies, to allow for a more precise assessment of frequency of thrombotic 
thrombocytopenia.  
Thrombosis 
Cumulative reviews have also been presented with  respect to thrombosis solely, from clinical studies 
as well as from post marketing experience. These show a numerical imbalance in the  clinical trials with 
regards to overall thromboembolic events (35 individuals who received the vaccine, 27 placebo, 20  still 
blinded). In the phase 3b study in South Africa, five serious cases have been reported with 
thromboembolic events. There are currently 27 post-marketing case reports of thromboembolism; 22 
of these occurred within 28  days following vaccination. Laboratory data  to conclude on any 
concomitant thrombocytopenia are however missing in the majority of cases. There are 7 cases of 
cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis (CVST); six of these with  concomitant thrombocytopenia (see 
below) and one in  whom platelet counts are not reported. 
Thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia 
Regarding cases with  thrombotic/ thromboembolic events and low platelets, there is a total of eight 
well described cases and one potential  study case. There is one very well described case from study 
3001,  one additional potential  case in study 3001  (see assessment of Q2) as well as 7 additional post 
marketing cases. Seven of these had CVST; one had concomitant  arterial thrombosis and DVT and one 
had DVT. Three of the cases with  CVST had additional thromboses inc luding splanchnic vein 
thromboses, pulmonary embolism and DVT. One case was fatal. Age ranges from 18 -63  years 
(excluding the potential clinical study case for whom very little  information is given, age ranges from 
18-59  years). Seven of the 8 well  described cases are female (all post-marketing). Outcome is 
unknown or not yet recovering in the  majority of cases, with  only two  cases reported to be recovering 
so far. 
It is unclear if treatment  with  heparin could be used in cases with  thrombotic thrombocytopen ia 
following COVID-19 vaccination. The antibodies that are considered to  be involved in this  syndrome 
(anti-PF4)  are different from those in  HIT (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia). Currently, it  is not 
considered sufficiently justified that  heparin must be  avoided (see Rapporteur’s comment in  section 
3.1.2  for a more detailed discussion). 
O/E analyses  
The O/E analysis submitted by the MAH  is based on very limited date since it  CVST in combination with 
thrombocytopenia is an extremely rare medical condition,  and reported cases so far are few.  Also, 
some incorrect data are identified among the few cases included. Nevertheless, despite the use of 
some incorrect data, the provided O/E analysis shows a clear signal of increased risk for CVST with 
thrombocytopenia in  female subjects aged <64 years compared to what can be expected in this 
population. 
Causality discussion   
Across the non-clinical studies with  Ad26.COV2.S and other Ad26-based vaccines there were no 
observations indicating an adverse vaccine -related effect on thrombosis and/or thrombocytopenia. The 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 77/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study findings were generally limited to mild and transient effects expected from a local and general 
inflammatory reaction subsequent to vaccination. Given the very low incidence of the thromboembolic 
events or coagulopathies associated with Ad26.COV2.S, likely of multifactorial  aetiology, it  is not 
unexpected that  no signals are observed in healthy animals.  
Taken together, the non-clinical data with  Ad26.COV2.S and other Ad26-based vaccines provide no 
further understanding on potential causal relationship between vaccination with  Covid -19 vaccine 
Janssen and the  events of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia. 
The MAH concludes that the  number of thrombotic events with  thrombocytopenia are low and there is 
insufficient data to conclude a definitive causal association with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. This is not 
supported. The PRAC Rapporteur considers that  a causal association is sufficiently supported based on 
the following: 
- 
The observed cases with CVST and concomitant thrombocytopenia represent clinical entities that 
are extremely rare in an overall population. Although CVST is well-known  to occur predominantly 
in younger females, often related to hormonal factors such as pre gnancy, puerperium or 
oestrogen-containing medications, concomitant thrombocytopenia is not part of any usual clinical 
picture for CVST. 
- 
The findings of positive anti-PF4-antibodies  in several cases, in one case with  documented non -
existing anti-PF4-antibodies  before vaccination, suggest that  the clinical picture is likely due to 
these antibodies. A similarity with  HIT (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia) is evident based on 
the clinical picture; however, there is no known exposure to heparin before the event s of 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia in any of the  reported cases, and in one case, a screening test 
for anti-PF4/heparin antibodies by latex-enhanced immunoassay was negative whereas results of 
a PF4/polyanion ELISA were strongly positive. 
- 
In several cases, there was no apparent risk factor for CVST or other thrombosis or for 
thrombocytopenia. For  a picture of thrombotic thrombocytopenia with positive anti -PF4-
antibodies, this is similar to “spontaneous HIT” which is characterized by a similar clinical and  
laboratory picture in patients without  exposure to heparin; however, some trigger is warranted in 
such cases (such as surgery, infectious disease etc). The only common trigger in these cases is 
the vaccination with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. 
- 
The timing of events is congruent for all of the cases, with  symptoms of thrombosis and/or 
thrombocytopenia occurring within  three weeks from the vaccination. This is also in line with  what 
is known for HIT type II and spontaneous HIT as well as for the thrombotic thrombocytopenia 
related to  another adenoviral vector COVID -19 vaccine. 
- 
Extensive work-up excluding other potential  causes of thrombosis and/or thrombocytopenia has 
been provided for two  of the cases. This includes antiphospholipid  antibodies, homocysteine, 
Factor VIII, antithrombin,  protein C, protein S, Factor V Leiden, prothrombin gene mutation, 
hepatitis/HIV,  ADAMTS 13, PNH  and JAK2. The only abnormality that  could explain the clinical 
picture in these cases was positive anti-PF4-antibodies. 
Furthermore, it remains unknown  how many cases with  thrombosis and concomitant  thrombocytopenia 
that  occurred in the clinical trials with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. An imbalance was noted with  regards 
to venous thromboembolism in the initial  assessment of these studies,  with more cases in the vaccine 
vs the  placebo group. However, platelet levels have not been provided for more than  very few of these 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 78/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cases. In addition, the post-marketing exposure to COVID-19 vaccine Janssen has increased rapidly 
within  recent weeks and thus, the numbers at risk for having developed these symptoms does not 
correspond to actual doses given. 
Based  on the above,  the PRAC Rapporteur considers that ‘thrombotic thrombocytopenia’ 
should be included in the  product information section 4.4 and  4.8.  
Regulatory action  
The MAH concludes that there is insufficient evidence to conclude on a causal relationship with  the 
vaccine, but  strongly supports making vaccinees aware of the signs and symptoms of this  very rare 
event, as well as recommendations to health care professionals to ensure the  early and correct 
diagnosis and treatment  of the  patients and reporting of the  events. Based on that  they propose 
updates of section 4.4  of the SmPC, and of section 2  of the  PL. This is supported, although  the 
proposed wording needs revision. It is currently unknown if heparin could be used in patients with 
thrombotic thrombocytopenia following COVID -19 vaccination; however, the recommendation to 
consult expertise for diagnosing and treatment  decisions in patients  with thr ombotic  thrombocytopenia 
is strongly supported. 
As outlined above, following evaluation of the currently availble data, the PRAC rapportuer is of the 
opinion that  therre is suffient evidence to, with  a reasonable possibilty, conclude  thrombosis in 
combination with  thrombocytopenia being a very rare adverse drug reaction of the Covid-19 vaccine 
Janssen. Therefore, update of section 4.8 of the SmPC is also warranted.  
Regarding additional risk minimisation measures, a DHPC is warranted to inform health care 
professionals. Draft proposal is attached.   
Evaluation of the RMP, including the  pharmacovigilance plan, will be undertaken in the next step of this 
signal procedure.  
For an oral explanation at the PRAC; the  MAH is asked to address the proposed updates of the product 
information, the proposed DHPC, based on the available data.  
Furthermore, there are a number of issues that  need to  be further clarified by the MAH,  as outlined in 
the RSI below. 
3.1.5.  Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation 
The PRAC rapporteur recommends updates of section 4.4  and 4.8  of the  SmPC, and of section 2  an d 4 
of the Package leaflets. Furthermore, a DHPC is proposed (see Annex).  
The following wording is proposed, based on the MAH’s  proposal.  
Section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders 
A combination of venous thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in some cases accompanied by bleeding, 
has been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 79/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
venous thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein 
thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis concomitant with  thrombocytopenia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in women 
under 60 years of age.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, o r persistent abdominal pain 
following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological symptoms including  severe or persistent 
headaches or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond the 
site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.   
Since management may be different than usual medical practice for thromboembolic events if patients 
present with concomitant  thrombocytopenia , healthcare professionals should consult applicable 
guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., haematologists, specialists in  coagulation) to  diagnose and 
treat this  condition. 
Risk of bleeding with  intramuscular administration   
Section 4.8  
In the Table  
SOC: Vascular disorders: Thrombosis in  combination with thro mbocytopenia* 
* *Severe and very rare cases of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia have been 
reported post-marketing. These included venous thrombosis such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis , 
splanchnic vein thrombosis, as well as arterial thr ombosis (see section 4.4). 
Frequency: Very rare 
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
[…] 
As with any vaccine, vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen may not  fully protect all those who 
receive it. It is not known how long you will be protected. 
Blood disorders 
A combination of blood clots and low levels of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to clot) in  the blood has 
been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe 
cases with  blood clots and, in  unusual locations, such as the brain and liver, in some cases in 
combination with  bleeding. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination and 
occurred mostly in women below 60  years of age. Fatal outcome has been reported.  
Seek immediate medical attention,  if you experience severe or persistent headaches or blurred vision, 
unexplained skin bruising beyond the  site of vaccination which appear a few days after vaccination, 
develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain or swelling,  or persistent a bdominal pain. Inform your 
health care provider that  you have recently received COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 80/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4 
Very Rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000  people) - blood clots often in  unusual locations (e.g. brain, 
liver) in  combination with low level of blood platelets 
3.1.6.  Issues for an oral explanation at the PRAC  
Please address the following points,  based on relevant data:   
- 
- 
- 
Proposed updates of the  product information 
Proposal to send out a DHPC 
Explain  why  some  of  the  requested  information  has  not  been  submitted  as  asked  for,  and 
comment on if / how this will  be improved in  the future.  
3.1.7.  Request for supplementary information   
3.1.7.1.  Immediate  RSI (to be submitted by 19 April 2021, at  20:00) 
•  Based on Response Table 6, there appears to be one additional  clinical study  case (study 3001) 
with  concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia. Full  details on this case including  a 
complete CIOMS report should be provided, along with  a discussion on why this  case wa s not 
included in the presentation of clinical study cases of concomitant thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia. 
3.1.7.2.  Subsequent RSI  
• 
For a case in study 3001,  it should be clarified when the tests  for PF4  antibodies actually were 
performed, as well as reported to the  investigator, and when the  sponsor/MAH became aware 
of these results.   
•  Questions (Q2, Q3, parts of Q4) were raised regarding laboratory results from clinical studies 
and from post-marketing data, regarding e.g. thrombocytopenia. Further da ta presentation is 
asked for to  allow final assessment of whether thrombocytopenia without  thrombosis or 
bleeding, may be caused by the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen.  
In that  presentation, the  cases of ‘haematopoietic cytopenias’ in the  clinical trials should  be 
further detailed specifically addressing whether any of these are attributable  to 
thrombocytopenia. 
• 
Laboratory data, primarily CBC/platelet counts remain missing for the majority of cases with 
thromboembolism in  both the clinical trials as well as post-marketing. Additional information on 
CBC/platelet levels are expected to be presented for these cases, including all cases with 
thromboembolic events regardless of location and severity.  
• 
For COVID3012 SISONKE, an open label single arm Phase 3b study in  South Africa, there were 
five cases of thromboembolism that  occurred between less than  24 hours and 23 days after 
vaccination. Normal platelet  counts have been provided for only one of these; for one case, 
pulmonary embolism was diagnosed post mortem and is  thus  not expected to provide further 
laboratory testing.  For the remaining three cases, platelet levels are expected to be submitted.   
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 81/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
In the Responses Table 5, there were 13  subjects with  ‘AEs of interest’ of venous or arterial 
thrombosis in the clinical studies. There appears to be an additional 19 or 22 cases (different 
numbers appear in the Responses) with events of thromboembolism in the clinical studies. The 
MAH  should summarise the main reasons for not including  the additional cases among AEs of 
interest. Notably, laboratory data (primarily CBC/platelet counts)  are expected for all cases. 
• 
For the O/E analysis, it is noted that  the the 18-28  male from the phase III study that  was 
reported with  CVST and thrombocytopenia has not been included, in addition, the  52-62 year-
old female subject included in this analysis had thrombosis located  in the legs but not  CVST. 
Revised, and updated analyses, with the  most current amount  of data are requested.  
• 
It is not clear which cut-off date that  was used for post-marketing data in the  O/E analysis, 
which should be provided. Furthermore, the MAH  should provide the time frame that  was used 
to calculate the expected rate of these rare events of CVST in combination with 
thrombocytopenia. 
•  One case of capillary leak syndrome was reported among cases described for this signal. This 
condition should be followed up in monthly safety summary reports.  
3.1.8.  Comments from other PRAC members and MAH  
Updated information on the cases with  CVST and concomitant thrombocytopenia has been provided 
after the circulation of the preliminary AR; these data have been incorporated into sections 3.1.2, 
3.1.3  and 3.1.4  (highlighted). 
Member  state  1 comments 
We generally endorse the assessment report and the proposed recommendation.  
However,  
1)  considering sparse data, the  statement  ”These cases occurred […]  mostly in  women under 60  years 
of age” (used throughout  in PI and DHPC) does not allow for defining age -based risk groups and may be 
omitted 
2)  the  TTO’s stated  in  2.1  ”Time to  onset included  11  days (n=2)  and  19  days (n=1)”,  seems at  o dds 
with  the  case narratives presented (  Case 1:  7  days?, Case 2:  11  days,  Case 3:  CNS symptoms  from 
day 11). 
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
We  agree  that  the  data  are sparse,  however, the  clear trend  of  cases reported  being  mostly  women 
under 60  years of  age is considered of high  relevance for prescribers (this  wording  is also  proposed in 
order to avoid different wordings as compared to another covid -19 adenoviral vector vaccine). 
For section 2.1, this  was part of the  signal validation with  limited  information at  hand. Notably, the first 
three cases in the table  1A in  section 3.1.3 that  shows a summary over cases in Eudra Vigilance are not 
the same cases as those that were available at the signal validation stage (the three validation cases are 
Cases no 2, 5 and 7 in the  EudraVigilance table). 
Member  state  2 comments 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 82/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We  overall support  the  PRAC Rapp´s  assessment however we  propose some changes in  the  proposed 
wording  in  the  Section  4.4.  of  the  SmPC:  We  propose  not  to  include  the  recommendation  on  the 
treatment  of combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopaenia as specific treatment for this  condition 
is  not  known at  this  time.  Additionally,  the  term „venous“should  be deleted  from the  first  sentence as 
arterial thrombosis is also stated as one example of unusual type of thrombosis. The last sentence in the 
proposed wording was probably copied by mistake. 
Section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders 
A  combination  of venous  thrombosis and  thrombocytopenia,  in  some cases accompanied by bleeding, 
has  been  observed  very  rarely  following  vaccination  with  COVID -19  Vaccine  Janssen.  This  includes 
venous  thrombosis  at  unusual  sites  such  as  cerebral  venous  sinus  thrombosis,  splanchnic  vein 
thrombosis, as well  as arterial thrombosis concomitant  with thrombocytopenia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in  women 
under 60 years of age.  
Healthcare  professionals  should  be  alert  to  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  thromboembolism  and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those  vaccinated should be  instructed  to  seek immediate  medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such  as shortness of  breath,  chest pain,  leg  swelling,  or persistent  abdominal pain 
following  vaccination. Additionally,  anyone with  neurological  symptoms  including  severe or  persistent 
headaches or blurred vision  after vaccination,  or who  experiences skin bruising  (petechia)  beyond the 
site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prom pt medical attention.   
Since management may be different than  usual medical practice for  thromboembolic events if  patients 
present with concomitant thrombocytopenia , healthcare professionals should consult applicable guidance 
and/or  consult  specialists  (e.g.,  haematologists,  specialists  in  coagulation)  to  diagnose  and  treat  this 
condition. 
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
We fully agree to delete the  word ‘venous’ from the first sentence in the SmPC section 4.4.  
For  the  proposed recommendation on  mana gement, we  consider that  it  is  of high  relevance to  inform 
prescribers  that  these  cases  will  likely  warrant  special  considerations  and  early  involvement  with 
specialists. Some amendments are however proposed, see also comment from BE and updated proposal 
for section 4.4  below (AR section 3.4). 
The  last  sentence  has  been  added  as  a  new  subheading,  for  clarity  in  relation  to  the  current  text  in 
section 4.4.  
Member  state  3 comments 
Overall,  member  state  3  agrees  with  the  high-quality  assessment  report  and  conclusions,  also 
considering the  short time frame and some issues in  data presentation.  
Member  state  3 fully agrees that available data are sufficient  to support a plausible causal association 
and the inclusion of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 83/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Member  state  3  has  some additional  comments  on  proposed  update  of  the  product  information  (in 
bold): 
SmPC 
Section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders 
A  combination  of venous  thrombosis and  thrombocytopenia,  in  some cases accompanied by bleeding, 
has  been  observed  very  rarely  following  vaccination  with  COVID -19  Vaccine  Janssen.  This  includes 
severe  cases  of  venous  thrombosis  at  unusual  sites  such  as  cere bral  venous  sinus  thrombosis, 
splanchnic  vein  thrombosis,  as  well  as  arterial  thrombosis  concomitant  with  thrombocytopenia.  Fatal 
outcome has been reported. These cases occurred within the first three weeks following vaccination, and 
mostly in women under 60  years of age.  
Healthcare  professionals  should  be  alert  to  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  thromboembolism  and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those  vaccinated should be  instructed  to  seek immediate  medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such  as shortness of  breath,  chest pain,  leg  swelling,  or persistent  abdominal pain 
following  vaccination. Additionally,  anyone with  neurological  symptoms  including  severe or  persistent 
headaches or blurred vision  after vaccination,  or who  experiences skin bruising  (petechia)  beyond  the 
site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.   
Since management  may  be  different than  usual medical  practice for  thromboembolic events 
if  patients  present  with  concomitant  thrombocytopenia,  Thrombosis in  combination  with 
thrombocytopenia  requires  specialised  clinical  management.  hHealthcare  professionals should 
consult  applicable guidance and/or  consult  specialists (e.g.,  haematologists, specialists in  coagulation) 
to diagnose and treat this  condition. 
Section 4.8  
In the Table  
SOC: Vascular disorders: Thrombosis in  combination with thrombocytopenia*  
* *Severe and very rare cases of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia have been reported 
post-marketing. These included venous thrombosis such as cerebral venous si nus thrombosis, splanchnic 
vein thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis (see section 4.4). 
Frequency: Very rare 
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
[…] 
As  with  any  vaccine, vaccination  with  COVID -19 Vaccine  Janssen may  not  fully  protect  all  those  who 
receive it. It is not known how long you will be protected. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 84/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood disorders 
A combination  of blood clots  and low levels of ‘platelets’  (cells that  help blood  to clot)  in  the blood  has 
been observed very rarely following  vaccination  with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. This  includes  severe 
cases with  blood  clots  and,  in  unusual  locations, such  as  the  brain  and  liver,  bowel and  spleen,  (as 
reported in  case 5)  in  some cases in  combination  with  bleeding.  These cases occurred  within  the  first 
three weeks following vaccination and occurred mostly in women below 60  years of age. Fatal  outcome 
has been reported. 
Seek immediate  medical attention,  if  you experience severe or persistent  headaches or blurred  vision, 
unexplained  skin  bruising  beyond  the  site  of  vaccination  which  appear a  few  days  after  vaccination, 
develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain or swelling, or persistent abdominal pain.  Inform your 
health care provider that  you have recently received COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Section 4 
Very Rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) - blood clots often in unusual locations (e.g. brain, liver, 
bowel, spleen) (as reported in case 5)  in combination with  low level of blood platelets 
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
The proposed amendments are supported and have been included in the updated proposal for the product 
information, see below (AR section 3.4) 
Member  state  5 Comments 
Member  state  5  supports  the  PRAC  RAPP  recommendations  and  considers  that  a  plausible  causal 
association is sufficiently  supported based on the  data provided. Therefore, updates of section  4.4 and 
4.8 of the SmPC, section 2  and 4  of the Package leaflet is appropriate. 
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
Noted 
Member  state  6 comments 
-  We endorse PRAC Rapporteur’s Signal  AR, however, have one  additional  remark. We consider that  a 
stratified analysis by gender of the populations exposed would be helpful for further interpretation of the 
data. A request for such analysis by gender could be added to the 2nd RSI.  
- Comments on the proposed draft DHPC were attached. 
- We have no additional comments on the communication plan. 
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
The suggestion to ask for a stratified analysis by gender of the populations exposed is endorsed; the RSI 
has been updated accordingly. 
Some comments on the DHPC are endorsed, but details to  be further discussed.  
Member  state  7 comments 
In  general,  we  agree  with  the  case  descriptions  and  agree  that  a  causal  association  is  sufficiently 
supported by the  data submitted. 
The request for supplemental information is supported.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 85/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We agree with the proposed wording in SmPC and PIL, being in line with that  previously included for the 
AstraZeneca vaccine, in particular the wording in  SmPC 4.4. 
In  SmPC 4.4  the  following  sentence  is  added: Risk  of  bleeding with  intramuscular  administration.  We 
suggest adding the common phrase used for other vaccines for im administration:  
As with  other intramuscular injections,  the vaccine should be given with  caution in individuals receiving 
anticoagulant therapy or those with  thrombocytopenia or any coagulation disorder (such as haemophilia) 
because bleeding or bruising may occur following an intramusc ular administration in these individuals. 
We propose the  current potential  risk of Venous thromboembolism to  be upgraded to  identified  risk in 
the RMP. 
We have no objections to  the proposed DHPC and the  proposed communication plan.  
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
For the intramuscular administration, what is new is the subheading “Risk of bleeding with  intramuscular 
administration”.  Other than  that,  the text proposed is already included in section 4.4. 
For the RMP, this  will be further assessed within the  next round of this  procedure. 
Member  state  8 comments 
Overall, we agree with  the assessment report and recommendation provided by the rapporteur. Please, 
find attached Member  state  8 comments to the  DHPC. 
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
Noted; for the DHPC, see separate document. 
Member  state  9 comments 
Overall, Member  state  9 endorses the PRAC Rapporteur’s assessment report and conclusion.  
Moreover, we strongly support that  further details are needed on cases of ‘haematopoietic cytopenias’ 
from the  clinical trials, since it  is considered relevant to investigate the risk of thrombocytopenia, also 
in light  of the imbalance observed for adenovirus platform [“Platelet count decrease was observed 
following 70 out  of 4,105  Ad26 doses (1.7%)  and 7 out of 719 placebo doses (1.0 %)”].   
Conclusions on this  issue might be reflected in the product information, as appropriate.  
Some comments to the proposed DHPC have been also formulated (see attachment).  
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
Noted; for the DHPC, see separate document. 
3.1.9.  Response from MAH (submitted 19 April 2021) 
MAH  response 
Reference is  made to  the  PAM-SDA procedure related  to  the  signal  of  Embolic and  Thrombotic  events 
(SMQ) for COVID-19 Vaccine (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) - COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (EPITT ref. No. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 86/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19689).  Further  to the  PRAC AR, proposed PRAC EUPI and DHCP  letter received today 19th  April 2021, 
I am hereby providing you the  below documentation: 
• MAH’s  proposed DHCP letter in  Track changes 
• MAH  proposed EUPI, clean and Track changes version 
• CIOMS report for one Subject  
The response to question below will be submitted shortly, today: 
“Based on  Response Table  6,  there appears to  be one  additional  clinical study  case  (study  3001)  with 
concomitant  thrombosis  and  thrombocytopenia.  Full  details  on  this  case  including  a  complete  CIOMS 
report should be provided, along with  a discussion on why this case was not included in the presentation 
of clinical study cases of concomitant  thrombosis and thrombocytopenia”.  
As requested, the response to the  additional questions  listed in  the PRAC AR will  be submitted  by April 
23rd, 2021. 
Revised wording for PI  
The MAH  has accepted the wording for section 4.4 as outlined in the PRAC Rapp’s AR of 19 April, but  has 
also  proposed  additional  wording  (see  below).  For   section  4.8,  the  wording  proposed  by  the  PRAC 
rapporteur has been agreed, without  revision.   
Section 4.4  
A combination of venous thrombosis and thrombocytopenia,  in some cases accompanied by bleeding, 
has been observed very rarely (with an approximate incidence of 1 -2  cases per 1 million vaccinations 
after the first 7.9 million vaccinations) following vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This 
includes venous thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein 
thrombosis as well as arterial thrombosis, concomitant with  thrombocytope nia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in women 
under 60 years of age.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, or persistent abdominal pain 
following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological s ymptoms including  severe or persistent 
headaches or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond the 
site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.   
Since management may be different than usual medical practice for thromboembolic events if patients 
present with concomitant  thrombocytopenia, healthcare professionals should consult applicable 
guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., haematologists, specialists in  coagulation) to  diagnose a nd 
treat this  condition. 
MAH comment: The Company proposes to include the frequency rate to clarify the very rarely statement, 
as this  could be  interpreted as 1  in 10,000,  which  would be  an over estimate;  namely by adding   (with 
an approximate incidence of 1-2 cases per 1 million vaccinations after the first 7.9  million vaccinations).  
PRAC rapporteur comment: The MAH has accepted the proposed wording for section 4.4, as outlined in 
the AR of 19 April 21. In addition, they proposed to add an app roximate incidence (with  an approximate 
incidence of 1-2  cases per 1 million vaccinations after the  first 7.9 million vaccinations).  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 87/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is  not  agreed. The proposed incidence is very uncertain  and is  likely an  underestimation; see also 
PRAC Rapp’s comments to Q8 above.  
The PRAC Rapp’s proposal of 19 April for section 4.8, and the PIL, both section 2 and 4 is agreed by the 
MAH.   
Furthermore, the same wording as in 4.4 regarding awareness, signs and symptoms  is added to a section 
on ‘The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:’, which is endorsed. It should 
reflect the  finally agreed wording, accordingly.  
DHPC 
PRAC rapporteur comment: For  the DHPC, the  MAH  proposes to add the  frequency as proposed for the 
SmPC,  which  is  not  agreed.  Some  other  smaller  comments  have  also  been  proposed.  These  will  be 
considered together with  other comments received from MSs  
3.1.10.  Updated rapporteur's proposed recommendation  
The following wording is proposed, based on the MAH’s  proposal and comments from MS s.  
Section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders 
A combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in  some cases accompanied by bleeding, has been 
observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe cases 
of venous thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein 
thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis concomitant with  thrombocytopenia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in women 
under 60 years of age.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg s welling, or persistent abdominal pain 
following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological symptoms including  severe or persistent 
headaches or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond the 
site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.   
Thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia requires specialised clinical management. 
Healthcare professionals should consult  applicable guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., 
haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to  diagnose and treat this condition.  
Risk of bleeding with  intramuscular administration   
Section 4.8  
In the Table  
SOC: Vascular disorders: Thrombosis in  combination with thrombocytopenia*  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 88/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
* *Severe and very rare cases of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia have been 
reported post-marketing. These included venous thrombosis such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, 
splanchnic vein thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis (see section 4.4).  
Frequency: Very rare 
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
[…] 
As with any vaccine, vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen may not  fully protect all those who 
receive it. It is not known how long you will be protected. 
Blood disorders 
A combination of blood clots and low levels of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to clot) in  the blood has 
been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe 
cases with  blood clots, including in unusual locations such as the brain, liver, bowel and spleen, in 
some cases in combination with  bleeding. These cases occurred within  the first  three weeks following 
vaccination and occurred mostly in women below 60 years of age. Fatal outcome has been  reported. 
Seek immediate medical attention  if you experience severe or persistent headaches or blurred vision, 
unexplained skin bruising beyond the  site of vaccination which appear a few days after vaccination, 
develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, or persistent abdominal pain. Inform your health 
care provider that  you have recently received COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Section 4 
Very Rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000  people) - blood clots often in  unusual locations (e.g. brain, 
liver, bowel, spleen) in combination with  low level of blood platelets  
Section 6  
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:  
[…] 
•  Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism 
and/or thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed  to seek immediate medical 
attention  if they develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, or 
persistent abdominal pain following  vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological 
symptoms including  severe or persistent headaches or blurred vision after vaccination, or who 
experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond the site of vaccination after a few days, should 
seek prompt medical attention.  Thrombosis in  combination with thrombocytopenia  requires 
specialised clinical management. Healthcare professionals should consult applicable guidance 
and/or consult specialists (e.g., haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to diagnose and 
treat this  condition. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 89/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1.10.1.  Subsequent RSI 
• 
For a case in study 3001,  it should be clarified when the tests  for PF4  antibodies actually were 
performed, as well as reported to the  investigator, and when the  sponsor/MAH became aware 
of these results.   
•  Questions (Q2, Q3, parts of Q4) were raised regarding laboratory results from clinical studies 
and from post-marketing data, regarding e.g. thrombocytopenia. Further data presentation is 
asked for to  allow final assessment of whether thrombocytopenia without  thrombosis or 
bleeding, may be caused by the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen.  
In that  presentation, the  cases of ‘haematopoietic cytopenias’ in the  clinical trials should be 
further detailed specifically addressing whether any of these are attributable  to 
thrombocytopenia. 
• 
Laboratory data, primarily CBC/platelet counts remain missing for the majority of cases with 
thromboembolism in  both the clinical trials as well as post-marketing. Additional information on 
CBC/platelet levels are expected to be presented for these cases,  including all cases with 
thromboembolic events regardless of location and severity.  
• 
For COVID3012 SISONKE, an open label single arm Phase 3b study in  South Africa, there were 
five cases of thromboembolism that  occurred between less than  24 hours and 23 da ys after 
vaccination. Normal platelet  counts have been provided for only one of these; for one case, 
pulmonary embolism was diagnosed post mortem and is thus  not expected to provide further 
laboratory testing.  For the remaining three cases, platelet levels  are expected to be submitted.  
• 
In the Responses Table 5, there were 13  subjects with  ‘AEs of interest’ of venous or arterial 
thrombosis in the clinical studies. There appears to be an additional 19 or 22 cases (different 
numbers appear in the Responses) with events of thromboembolism in  the clinical studies. The 
MAH  should summarise the main reasons for not including  the additional cases among AEs of 
interest. Notably, laboratory data (primarily CBC/platelet counts)  are expected for all cases. 
• 
For the O/E analysis, it is noted that  the 18-28  old male from the  phase III study that  was 
reported with  CVST and thrombocytopenia has not been included, in addition, the  52-62 year-
old female subject included in this analysis had thrombosis located in the legs but not  CVST. 
Revised, and updated analyses, with the  most current amount  of data are requested .  
• 
It is not clear which cut-off date that  was used for post-marketing data in the  O/E analysis, 
which should be provided. Furthermore, the MAH  should provide the time frame that  was used 
to calculate the expected rate of these rare events of CVST in combination with 
thrombocytopenia. 
•  A stratified analysis by gender of the populations exposed should be provided.  
•  One case of capillary leak syndrome was reported among cases described for this signal. T his 
condition should be followed up in monthly safety summary reports.  
• 
For the case with  concomitant DVT and low platelet counts in a male study subject  aged 
between 56-66  in study 3001, this  case should be discussed in more detail, including  a 
discussion on the laboratory findings at admission that indicate coagulopathy. In light of recent 
findings, a discussion on whether this could be a case of thrombotic thrombocytopenia related 
to the Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen should be provided. Any previous CBC/platel et counts in the 
medical history of this case should be provided. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 90/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1.11.  Adopted PRAC recommendation 
The  PRAC has  reviewed the  available evidence on the  occurrence of  thromboembolic  events following 
the  administration  of  COVID-19  Vaccine  Janssen,  including  data  ascertained  from  spontaneous  case 
reports identified  in  EudraVigilance, clinical  trials  and additional  data  from the  MAH.  The evaluation  of 
the data revealed eight reports of interest, which included severe cases of venous thrombosis at unusual 
sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis 
concomitant with  thrombocytopenia. Fatal  outcome has been reported. These cases occurred within the 
first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in women under 60 years of age.  
PRAC  is  of  the  view  that  there  is  sufficient  evidence  to  conclude,  with  a  reasonable  possibility,  that 
thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia  can be considered as a very rare adverse drug reaction 
of the Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Regarding  additional  risk  minimisation  measures,  a  DHPC  is  warranted  to  inform  health  care 
professionals. 
The  PRAC  recommends that  the  MAH  for  Covid-19  Vaccine Janssen  (Janssen-Cilag  International  NV) 
should submit a variation to amend the product information as described below (new text underlined/text 
to be removed with strikethrough): 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) 
Section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders 
A combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in some cases accompanied by bleeding, has been 
observed very rarely following  vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. This  includes severe cases 
of  venous  thrombosis  at  unusual  sites  such  as  cerebral  venous  sinus  thrombosis,  splanchnic  vein 
thrombosis, as well  as arterial thrombosis concomitant  with thrombocytopenia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in  women 
under 60 years of age.  
Healthcare  professionals  should  be  alert  to  the   signs  and  symptoms  of  thromboembolism  and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those  vaccinated should be  instructed  to  seek immediate  medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such  as shortness of  breath,  chest pain,  leg  swelling,  or persistent  abdominal pain 
following  vaccination. Additionally,  anyone with  neurological  symptoms  including  severe or  persistent 
headaches or blurred vision  after vaccination,  or who  experiences skin bruising  (petechia)  beyond the 
site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.   
Thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia requires specialised clinical management. Healthcare 
professionals  should  consult  applicable  guidance  and/or  consult  specialists  (e.g.,  haematologists, 
specialists in coagulation) to diagnose  and treat this  condition. 
Risk of bleeding with  intramuscular administration   
Section 4.8  
In the Table  
SOC: Vascular disorders: Thrombosis in  combination with thrombocytopenia*  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 91/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* *Severe and very rare cases of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytop enia have been reported 
post-marketing. These included venous thrombosis such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic 
vein thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis (see section 4.4). 
Frequency: Very rare 
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
[…] 
As  with  any  vaccine, vaccination  with  COVID -19 Vaccine  Janssen may  not  fully  protect  all  those  who 
receive it. It is not known how long you will be protected. 
Blood disorders 
A combination  of blood clots  and low levels of ‘platelets’  (cells that  help blood  to  clot)  in  the blood  has 
been observed very rarely following  vaccination  with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. This  includes  severe 
cases with  blood clots, including in unusual locations such as the brain, liver, bowel and spleen, in some 
cases  in  combination  with  bleeding.  These  cases  occurred  within  the  first  three  weeks  following 
vaccination and occurred mostly in women below 60 years of age. Fatal outcome has been reported.  
Seek immediate medical  attention  if  you  experience severe or  persistent  headaches or blu rred  vision, 
unexplained  skin  bruising  beyond  the  site  of  vaccination  which  appear a  few  days  after  vaccination, 
develop shortness of breath,  chest pain, leg swelling,  or persistent abdominal pain.  Inform your health 
care provider that  you have recently re ceived COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Section 4 
Very Rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) - blood clots often in unusual locations (e.g. brain, liver, 
bowel, spleen) in  combination with low level of blood platelets  
Section 6  
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
[…] 
•  Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed  to  seek immediate medical  attention 
if  they  develop symptoms  such  as  shortness  of  breath,  chest  pain,  leg  swelling,  or persistent 
abdominal pain following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with neurological symptoms including 
severe  or  persistent  headaches  or  blurred  vision  after  vaccination,  or  who  experiences  sk in 
bruising (petechia) beyond the site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical 
attention.  Thrombosis  in  combination  with  thrombocytopenia  requires  specialised  clinical 
management.  Healthcare  professionals  should  consult  applicable  guida nce  and/or  consult 
specialists (e.g., haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to diagnose and treat this condition.  
The MAH should distribute  a direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) according to the text 
and communication plan agreed with the  CHMP (see Annex). 
The  MAH  for  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International  NV)  is  also requested  to  submit, 
responses to the following list  of questions: 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 92/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  For  a case in  study  3001,  it  should be clarified when  the  tests for PF4  antibodies  actually were 
performed, as well as reported to the investigator, and when the sponsor/MAH became aware of 
these results.   
2.  Questions  (Q2,  Q3,  parts  of  Q4)  were raised  regarding laboratory results  from clinical  studies 
and  from  post-marketing  data,  regarding e.g.  thrombocytopenia.  Further  data  presentation  is 
asked for to allow final assessment of whether thrombocytopenia without thrombosis or bleeding, 
may be caused by the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen.  
3.  In  that  presentation,  the  cases  of  ‘haematopoietic  cytopenias’  in  the  clinical  trials  should  be 
further  detailed  specifically  addressing  whether  any  of 
these  are  attributable 
to 
thrombocytopenia. 
4.  Laboratory  data,  primarily  CBC/platelet  counts  remain  missing  for  the  majority  of  cases with 
thromboembolism in  both the clinical trials as well as post-marketing. Additional information on 
CBC/platelet  levels  are  expected  to  be  presented  for  these  cases,  including  all  cases  with 
thromboembolic events regardless of location and severity.  
5.  For COVID3012 SISONKE, an open label single arm Phase 3b study  in South Africa, there were 
five  cases  of  thromboembolism  that  occurred  between  less  than  24  hours  and  23  days  after 
vaccination.  Normal  platelet  counts  have  been  provided for  only  one  of  these;  for  one  case, 
pulmonary  embolism  was  diagnosed postmortem  and  is  thus  not  expected to  provide further 
laboratory testing.  For the remaining three cases, platelet levels are expected to be submitted.   
6.  In  the  Responses Table  5,  there  were 13  subjects  with  ‘AEs  of  interest’  of  venous  or  arterial 
thrombosis  in  the  clinical  studies.  There appears to  be an  additional  19  or 22  cases (different 
numbers appear in  the Responses) with  events of thromboembolism in the  cli nical studies.  The 
MAH  should  summarise the  main  reasons for not  including  the  additional  cases among  AEs  of 
interest. Notably, laboratory data (primarily CBC/platelet counts)  are expected for all cases. 
7.  For the O/E analysis, it  is noted that  the 18-28-year-old male from the  phase III study that was 
reported with  CVST and thrombocytopenia has  not  been included, in  addition,  the  52-62  year-
old  female subject  included  in  this  analysis had  thrombosis  located  in  the  legs  but  not  CVST. 
Revised, and updated analyses, with the  most current amount  of data are requested.  
8.  It is not clear which cut-off date that was used for post-marketing data in the O/E analysis, which 
should  be  provided.  Furthermore,  the  MAH  should  provide  the  time  frame  that  was  used  to 
calculate the expected rate of these rare events of CVST in combination with  thrombocytopenia. 
9.  A stratified analysis by gender of the populations exposed should be provided.  
10. One  case of capillary leak syndrome was  reported among  cases described for this  signal.  This  
condition should be followed up in monthly safety summary reports.  
11. For the case with concomitant DVT and low platelet counts  in a male study subject aged between 
56-66  in study 3001, this  case should be discussed in more detail, including  a discussion on  the 
laboratory  findings  at  admission  that  indicate  coagulopathy.  In  light  of  recent  findings,  a 
discussion on whether this could be a case of thrombotic thrombocytopenia related to the Covid -
19 Vaccine Janssen should be provided. Any previous CBC/platelet counts in the medical history 
of this case should be provided. 
12. The  MAH  should  discuss  whether  there  is  a need  to  further  revise the  product  information,  to 
advice against use of the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen, in a subject who has developed thrombosis 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 93/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  combination  with  thrombocytopenia, including  after  vaccination with  any  Covid-19  vaccine. 
Revision of sections 4.3 and / or 4.4  should be addressed . 
Post opinion note:  During the  Oral explanation provided by Janssen Cilag International  N.V. to  PRAC 
on the 20th of April, further clarification was provided on a number of issues raised within the assessment 
report. Tests for anti-PF4 antibodies were performed on frozen samples in April 2021 and were thus not 
available at  the  time  of events  in  2020  or before this  signal procedure was  initiated.  Table 6  (i.e.  Lab 
results  for subjects in  COV1001,  COV1002,  COV2001 and  COV3001  for subjects with  vein and  arterial 
thrombotic  events)  lists  all  data  available  to  the  MAH  at  the  time  of  submission.  Janssen  Cilag 
International  N.V. provided reassurance that  they  have implemented a number   of measures to  ensure 
follow-up  of  all  relevant cases  ascertained from  post-marketing  sources and  clinical  trials.  The  PRAC 
noted the clarifications provided by the  MAH during the  oral explanation.  
3.2.  Assessment of second set of additional data  
3.2.1.  MAH response as of 22nd April 2021 
An Erratum to the Responses submitted on 16 th April 2021 was provided; these do not affect the 
overall conclusions in  the previous round. Errata pertaining to  specific questions is discussed in relation 
to the questions addressed below. 
3.2.1.1.  QUESTION  1 
Despite  requests in Q4 of all information on all available  data,  as well as case narratives  for 
important cases in the  clinical studies, certain important information seems to be missing. 
Several  questions are  raised in the  RSI and  s hould be submitted for review.  
MAH  RESPONSE  
The MAH acknowledges the concern of the PRAC and is committed to  providing the requested 
information to the extent possible. The MAH continues to monitor for thrombotic events with and 
without  thrombocytopenia and is working with  experts and health authorities to understand these 
events, including evaluating potential risk factors and biological mechanisms for causality.  
Additional actions are being taken to enhance follow-up on cases in a study setting  as well as post 
marketing cases and to  retrieve the requested information as outlined  below.   
Cases in a study setting 
Study sites have been contacted and requested to provide additional laboratory values such as platelet 
counts. Currently, sites are returning additional supportive documents, including medical records. 
Additional information received to date is included in  this response document (see the response to 
QUESTION 3). In addition, field monitors have been asked to follow -up where responses are pending. 
For cases reported as non-serious unsolicited adverse events (AEs), in line with  the study protocol, 
narratives were not  routinely required throughout the  clinical study.  Therefore, information needs to  be 
collected retrospectively from source documents at the study site, where available.  
Study COV3012 (Sisonke) is a collaborative study conducted in  South Africa for which  Janssen is not 
the Sponsor. The MAH  therefore does not hold the  clinical database. There are pharmacovigilance 
provisions for the exchange of serious adverse events (SAEs) included in the collaboration agreement. 
Similar to  other SAEs, the MAH  routinely follows up with  the principal investigator of the study with 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 94/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
requests for additional or missing information. The principal investigator is  expediting efforts to contact 
the vaccination centers to retrieve laboratory results for cases of interest that  have been reported. The 
MAH  will update the case reports received as additional data are obtained and submit these to 
EudraVigilance in an expedited manner. 
Post marketing cases 
The MAH may not have been aware of all cases not  directly reported to the MAH  or might  not have 
been able to collect follow-up information regarding the  case details. The MAH  is making every effort to 
obtain the cases reported to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) through the 
provisions under the Freedom of Information Act. The MAH  follows up on all SAEs (including  events of 
thrombosis, thrombocytopenia and haemorrhage) with 2  phone call attempts  to the 
reporter/healthcare provider and 2 parallel attempts via email or postal mail. A standard vaccine AE 
follow-up questionnaire is sent either to the reporter or healthcare provider. As part of the enhanced 
investigation of thrombosis cases, a process is in place  to identify these cases early in the case 
processing workflow, and a company safety physician follows up with  the reporter, by phone when 
available and/or email or with the  treating physician if the  initial contact is with  a consumer. An 
accelerated case processing and submission process, prior to regulatory clock requirements, is in place 
for these cases of thrombosis. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
The MAH discussion is noted. Regarding quality of submissions, the MAH  has in the  most recent 
response clarified various mistakes including  significant formatting  errors, which had been included in 
the previous response. This has clarified certain issues. Regarding missing information  for cases in 
clinical studies as well as from other sources, given the severity of events, additional actions to 
enhance follow-up  on potential  cases are of utmost importance, Overall, the MAH  has ensured 
undertaking such efforts. New  important data is ex pected to be provided to the regulatory authorities 
as soon as possible. Further  information on e.g. case reports are expected in upcoming  Monthly  safety 
summary reports (MSSRs). 
3.2.1.2.  QUESTION  2 
For a  case in study 3001, it should be clarified when the  tests for PF4  antibodies actually 
were performed, as well as reported to the investigator, and  when the sponsor/MAH 
became  aware  of these  results. 
MAH  RESPONSE 
For a case transverse sinus venous thrombosis and cerebral haemorrhage after Ad26.COV2.S 
vaccination) the MAH received the SAE report. In March 2021,  the putative mechanism of vaccine -
induced thrombosis with thrombocytopenia in association with  anti-PF4  antibodies was first reported in 
scientific literature (Greinacher 2021, Pai 2021).  On 1 April 2021,  the MAH  requested tests for anti-PF4 
antibodies. These tests were performed on frozen samples previously collected for immunogenicity and 
other assessments as specified in the COV3001 protocol. The MAH  received the results of the test  on 
12 April 2021 and the  investigator was informed of these results. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 95/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH has clarified that  the tests for anti-PF4  antibodies were performed on frozen samples in April 
2021  and were thus not  available at the time of events  in 2020  or before this  signal procedure was 
initiated. 
3.2.1.3.  QUESTION  3 
Questions (Q2,  Q3, parts of Q4) were  raised regarding laboratory results from clinical 
studies and from post-marketing data,  regarding e.g.  thrombocytopenia. Further data 
presentation is asked  for to allow final assessment of whether  thrombocytopenia without 
thrombosis or bleeding, may  be caused by the  Covid -19 vaccine Janssen.  
MAH  RESPONSE 
The MAH is making every effort to obtain additional data, including  laboratory data, for cases of 
thrombosis, thrombocytopenia, and haemorrhage to complement the  information provided in the 
responses to Question 2, Question 3, and Question 4 submitted  on 16 April 2021.  See the response to  
Question 1. for the actions taken by the MAH  to collect the requested information.  
Any new clinical laboratory results that  the MAH  was able to receive from the clinical study sites up to 
20 April 2021 is described below. In addition, cumulative data searches for spontaneously reported 
cases in the Global Medical Safety (GMS) safety  database were performed up to 20 April 2021 as 
described below. Note that  cases may be included in the output  of more than one of the performed 
SMQ searches. 
Question 2: Laboratory values for cases with  venous or arterial thrombosis reported for the  COVID-19 
vaccine Janssen in  clinical trials  
COVID-19  vaccine studies:  
“Table 6” that  was provided in  answer to Question 2, has been updated with additional laboratory data 
received and is provided as Table 1 in  this document. 
In addition, SAEs (CIOMS forms) were manually reviewed for reported laboratory information related 
to thrombosis, and the information retrieved from this new search is provided in Table 2 of this 
document. 
Question 3: Laboratory values for cases of haemorrhagic (i.e., bleeding) events reported for the 
COVID-19 vaccine Janssen in clinical trials  
There are no additional laboratory data presently available from the clinical studies regarding cases of 
haemorrhagic events. As described in answer to  Question 1, this information needs to  be collected 
retrospectively from source documents at the study site,  where available, and queries are ongoing.  
Question 4: Laboratory values for cases of (a) thrombosis, (b)  thrombosis (any) and concomitant 
thrombocytopenia/low platelet count and (c) thrombocytopenia/low platelet count regardless of 
symptoms. 
COVID-19  vaccine studies: 
As stated in the response to Question 1, the MAH  has reached out to the investigators of the study to 
expedite efforts to contact the study centers to retrieve laboratory results for the reported cases of 
interest. 
Newly available laboratory information on thrombosis cases from clinical studies is provided in  table 1 
and table 2 new information on thrombocytopenia cases are provided in table 4.   
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 96/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please note that  the data received from the sites may still  not be fully complete in some instances the 
units  or ranges are missing. Hence, it  is at present note always possible to  conclu de on whether a 
reported result is normal or abnormal. As this is an ongoing process the MAH  provides here the status 
up to 21  April 2021.   
Of importance, some events of thrombocytopenia that  were experienced by clinical study participants 
were not  reported as an ‘AE’ in the  clinical database. The investigators have been contacted so that 
these events are encoded into the clinical trial database. In future searches, these cases will be 
retrieved. The following events are therefore not  included in the table  output  presented in answer to 
Question 4. The cases of thrombosis and concomitant thrombocytopenia are described in the result 
section of this response to QUESTION 3.  
Spontaneous reports:  
Additionally, a cumulative data search was performed for spontaneously reported cases in the GMS 
Safety Database through 20  April 2021.  See below for more (new) information on the data retrieved. 
The cumulative data search was performed for events using the following search criteria: 
a.  SMQ: Embolic and thrombotic events  
In total, 80  cases were retrieved that  met the search criteria. Of these 80 cases, 34  had results of 
investigations including imaging studies and laboratory tests from b lood samples provided. SMQ: 
Embolic and thrombotic events SMQ AND (SMQ: Haematopoietic thrombocytopenia OR HLT  of 
Thrombocytopenias)   
In total, 9  cases were retrieved that met the  search criteria. A table is provided in  Error! Reference s
ource not found.. 
     b.  SMQ: Haematopoietic thrombocytopenia OR HLT of Thrombocytopenias    
In total, 11  cases were retrieved that  met the search criteria. All 11  cases had laboratory  values 
provided. 
Results: 
Additional information was received from the COVID -19 clinical studies, identifying 2 additional  cases 
of thrombosis and concomitant  thrombocytopenia. A narrative for these new cases is provided below. 
In total, including  the two previously reported cases, a total  of 4 cases are identified:   
-  A Subject from study COV3001 (study pause case); reported at the time of the cMAA with 
further updates provided thereafter. A Subject from study COV3001 (deep vein thrombosis 
[DVT]); information was provided in  the response submitted to PRAC on 19  April 2021.  Refer 
to the response to QUESTION 12  and the  most recent CIOMS report in Attachment  2  for 
additional information. 
-  A Subject from Study COV3001 (venous embolism, COVID positive case) (questionable; 
confounded) 
A 66-76-year-old obese male participant (BMI 32.7)  with  hypertension experienced COVID -19 22 days 
after receiving Ad26.COV2.S. He was hospitalized for grade 2 COVID-19, acute kidney injury, venous 
embolism and grade 1  hypoxemia 13 days later (35 days after the blinded vaccination). The subject 
did not have any symptoms of COVID -19. COVID test was positive. Doppler scan confirmed DVT in 
distal left popliteal vein. He had platelet count of 142 x 10^3/mm3,  D -Dimer 47546  (normal range 
[NR]:  <229) and creatinine of 3.22  and was treated with  heparin. The following day, a 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 97/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scan showed multiple wedge -shaped segmental and subsegmental filling 
defects in  both lungs that  was consistent with  acute pulmonary embolism (PE). In the same study, 
scattered ground glass and consolidative opacities in both lungs were seen that  was consistent  with 
multifocal pneumonia. Treatment included: glucose (D5W) and heparin. The subject remained on room 
air. Two days after admission, the subject was discharged on anticoagulation in stable condition with 
creatinine 2.46, platelets 137  x 10^3/mm 3 (150-400  x 10^3/mm3),  D-Dimer 14,664 and was to 
follow-up with  a primary care physician. Treatment medications included: apixaban and glucose 
(D5W). At the time  of this  report, the  events, venous embolism was resolving. Considering risk factors 
of obesity and hypertension in this subject, a lack of pharmacological plausibility for the  study vaccine 
to cause COVID-19 infection and acute kidney injury, as well as high risk of venous embolism in 
COVID-19 patients,  all the reported events are considered inconsistent with  the causal association to 
immunization, per the World Health Organization (WHO)  causality classification for AEs following 
immunization. Company causality is considered not related to the study vaccine.  
-  A subject from blinded study COV3009 (Stroke;) 
A 50-60-year-old male participant was hospitalized for grade 3 right sided hemiparesis secondary to 
cerebrovascular accident (CVA), 35 days after blinded COVID  19 Vaccine. Ad26.COV2.S/placebo was 
administered intramuscularly for prevention of symptomatic SAR -CoV-2 virus infection. The participant 
had a history of high blood pressure and diabetes mellitus type 2. No  concomitant medications were 
reported. Thirty-five days after vaccine administration, participant experienced right sided hemiparesis 
secondary to CVA and was hospitalized on the  same day. Signs and symptoms included right  sided 
facial weakness, slurred speech, weakness of his right arm and leg, difficulty walking, and ataxia. On 
an unspecified date the participant  had reported platelet count (NR:  not provided) 119  (units not 
provided), Mean platelet volume (NR: not provided) 9.4 (units  not provided). Ten days later he was 
discharged to an acute rehabilitation facility where he remained for 19 days. His second dose of 
vaccine was scheduled 70 days after the  first dose. Based on the parti cipant’s history of high blood 
pressure and diabetes mellitus,  which are known risk factors for CVA, the event is considered 
inconsistent with  the causal association to  immunization, per the  WHO causality classification for AEs 
following immunization.  Company causality is considered not  related to blinded study vaccine. 
There have been new cases received via spontaneous sources since the previous submission dated 16 
April 2021. Of the 80  cumulative cases retrieved for Question 4a Embolic and thrombotic even ts SMQ, 
53 have been received since the data cut off for the previous submission.   Potential explanations for 
the influx of spontaneous cases include the  fact that Janssen has begun to  receive data via VAERS 
downloads and that additional cases and new info rmation on existing cases were received from VAERS 
through the  Freedom of Information Act process. Furthermore, stimulated reporting secondary to the 
increased awareness on these events in the news, literature publications and social media and 
increased use of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine in the US could be considered contributing  factors. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 98/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: 
Updated Table 6 of the Responses Submitted 16 April 2021: Laboratory Results for Participants 
in Clinical Studies COV1001, COV1002, COV2001, COV3001 for Participants With Venous and 
Arterial Thrombotic Events – Cut-off 20 April 2021 
Study ID 
Subject ID 
Treatment 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
Reported 
Term 
Onset 
Durati
on 
SAE 
Outcome 
Severity 
Grade 
Relationsh
ip to 
Vaccine 
AE 
Star
t 
Date 
End 
Date 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBOSIS 
52 
175 
N 
NOT 
RELATED 
Date of 
Positive PCR 
Test /  
Concomitant 
Thrombocyto
penia/Low 
Platelets 
No positive 
PCR  
No 
65-75 
M 
WHIT
E 
COV1001 
Dose 1 
Ad26.COV2.S 
1x1011 vp, 
Dose 2 
Placebo 
NOT 
RECOVERED/ 
NOT 
RESOLVED 
Grade  1 
Y  
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  4 
Y 
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  4 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR 
No 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR 
Yes 
COV1002 
BLIND 
58-68 
M 
ASIAN 
CEREBRA
L 
THROMBO
SIS 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x1010 vp 
18-28 
M 
WHIT
E 
TRANSVE
RSE SINUS 
VENOUS 
THROMBO
SIS 
161 
8 
21 
4 
Additional Information a  
No laboratory results available  for the 
AE. The following results are 
available  for pre and post vaccination 
timepoints (Please note that subject 
received  placebo  on day 57) 
 PT=10.9, aPTT=28, PLT=207 
 PT=11, aPTT=26, PLT=219 
 PT=10.9, aPTT=28, PLT=182 
 PT=13.1, aPTT=33, PLT=199 
 PT=13, aPTT=33, PLT=207 
Day 1 Platelets=26.5 10^10/L 
Day 15 Platelets=24.3 10^10/L 
Day 57 Platelets=23.5 10^10/L 
Day 71 Platelets=24.0 10^10/L 
 Platelets= 64 (L) (normal range  140-
400) 
 Platelets= 123 (following transfusion) 
 Platelets= 334 
Add SPF4 data  
aPTT 24.8, 30.3 sec, 57.0 seconds at 
01:09 hours, 118.8 seconds at 08:42 
hours, 136.9 seconds at 17:36 hours; 
Antiphospholipid AB 1.66, 34.6 sec, 
57.3 sec, Lupus Anticoagulant not 
detected, Negative;  Antithrombin III 
97%; Blood Fibrinogen 154 mg/dL, 
154, 274 mg/dL; INR 1.1, 1.29, 1.46; 
Platelet count 204 10*3/uL, 60 
10e3/ul at 01:13 hours, 113 10e3/ul at 
17:55 hours, 64, 123, 334 10e3/mcl 
(after  discharge);  PTT 11.2 sec, 15.7 
sec, 17.7.  
Work up revealed  sigmoid sinus 
stenosis, transverse  sinus thrombosis 
and secondary  hemorrhage. 
Hematology and infectious disease 
work up were performed;  results 
showed non-conclusive  abnormalities. 
Anti-PF4 antibodies were  negative 
0.246 (Day 1) and positive 2.137 (Day 
29) and 1.451 (Day 71). On Day 155: 
Lyme disease test: high IgM 
(interpreted  as negative), Lupus 
anticoagulant: normal, N-ELISA: 
negative. 
Please refer  also to the CIOMS form 
in Error! Reference source n
ot found.. 
The participant underwent  echo color 
doppler of lower limb veins on , 
which showed a small thrombus 
adhered  to the right common femoral 
vein and acute thrombosis of the left 
gastrocnemius veins. At present time, 
data on laboratory values are  not 
available  and the MAH is not able to 
confirm whether  data will become 
available.  
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x1010 vp 
35-45 
M 
MULT
IPLE 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
19 
123 
NOT 
RELATED 
/ 
Not known 
N 
NOT 
RECOVERED
/NOT 
RESOLVED 
Grade  2 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 99/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Subject ID 
Treatment 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
Reported 
Term 
Onset 
Durati
on 
SAE 
Outcome 
Severity 
Grade 
Relationsh
ip to 
Vaccine 
AE 
Star
t 
Date 
End 
Date 
COV3001 
Placebo 
COV3001 
Placebo 
COV3001 
Placebo 
COV3001 
Placebo 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x1010 vp 
50-60 
M 
WHIT
E 
33-43 
M 
WHIT
E 
18-28 
F 
MULT
IPLE 
35-45 
F 
ASIAN 
56-66 
M 
WHIT
E 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x1010 vp 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x1010 vp 
39-49 
M 
WHIT
E 
44-54 
M 
WHIT
E 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS IN 
LOWER 
LEFT LEG 
RIGHT 
LEG DEEP 
VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
CEREBRA
L VENOUS 
SINUS 
THROMBO
SIS 
HEMORRH
OIDAL 
THROMBO
SIS 
VENOUS 
THROMBO
SIS IN THE 
LEFT 
LOWER 
LIMB 
AFTER 
TRAUMA 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS OF IN 
THE LEFT 
CALF 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS IN 
RIGHT 
LEG 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x1010 vp 
56-66 
M 
WHIT
E 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
3 
141 
89 
53 
65 
56 
24 
14 
23 
1 
98 
31 
108 
19 
22 
5 
N 
NOT 
RECOVERED
/NOT 
RESOLVED 
Grade  2 
Y 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  3 
Y 
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  2 
N 
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  2 
N 
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  2 
N 
NOT 
RECOVERED
/NOT 
RESOLVED 
Grade  2 
Y 
NOT 
RECOVERED
/NOT 
RESOLVED 
Grade  3 
Y 
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  4  
Date of 
Positive PCR 
Test /  
Concomitant 
Thrombocyto
penia/Low 
Platelets 
No positive 
PCR/ 
Not known 
NOT 
RELATED 
NOT 
RELATED 
/ 
No 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
NOT 
RELATED 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
Not known 
No positive 
PCR/ 
Not known 
Additional Information a  
The participant had previous history 
of DVT . Most recently  with the 
present DVT, participant was seen, no 
laboratory  assessments were  done 
before  starting on blood thinner 
apixaban, which participant remains 
on. 
 Platelets = 257 (normal range 140-
420); PT normal; INR=1.12;  
 PT normal; INR=1; aPTT 31.4 (H) 
(normal range  22.4-29.3);  
 Platelets =251 (normal range  140-
420); D-dimer 5.55 (H) (normal  range 
0-0.5 mg/L); 
 Platelets = 289 (normal range 140-
440); Normal fibrinogen, 
thromboplastin time, PT, INR, Lupus 
anticoagulant negative 
No additional information currently 
available. 
No additional information currently 
available. 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
 Platelets =209 (normal range  150-
400); 07 Mar 2021: Platelets = 215; 08 
Apr 2021: D-dimer  <0.17 (normal 
range<0.59 mg/L FEU) 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
Platelets 203 (normal range  150-450);  
200;  
205;  
211;  
202;  
D-dimer 1.74 (H)  (normal<0.5mg/L); 
Lupus anticoagulant present on dilute 
RVVT screen; 
 (admission date, as per  the medical 
records);  Platelets 141 (L) (normal 
range  not known); PT 24.6 (H); INR 
2.1 (H) 
A low platelet count was reported 
according  to the analyzing laboratory 
reference  ranges, however  the treating 
physician considered  this result 
unremarkable,  as per the medical 
records. Platelet count of 141 is 
considered  normal, according  to the 
FDA Guidance document “Toxicity 
Grading Scale for  Healthy Adult and 
Adolescent Volunteers  Enrolled in 
Preventive Vaccine  Clinical Trials” 
(September  2007) used in this clinical 
study protocol. No AE of 
thrombocytopenia was reported  by the 
study investigator.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 100/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Subject ID 
Treatment 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
Reported 
Term 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
58-68 
M 
WHIT
E 
LEFT EYE 
VENOUS 
THROMBO
SIS 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
COV3001 
Placebo 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
53-63 
M 
WHIT
E 
45-55 
M 
WHIT
E 
37-47 
M 
BLAC
K OR 
AFRIC
AN 
AMER
ICAN 
83-93 
M 
WHIT
E 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS IN 
HEMORAL 
VEIN 
50 
64 
76 
1 
27 
93 
6 
110 
13 
18 
Onset 
Durati
on 
SAE 
Outcome 
Severity 
Grade 
Relationsh
ip to 
Vaccine 
AE 
Star
t 
Date 
End 
Date 
Date of 
Positive PCR 
Test /  
Concomitant 
Thrombocyto
penia/Low 
Platelets 
Additional Information a  
Y 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  3 
RELATED  No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
N 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  2 
N 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  2 
Y 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  4 
N 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  2 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
RELATED  No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
RELATED  No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
Platelets = 266 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
53-63 
F 
WHIT
E 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
54 
59 
N 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  1 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
 Platelets = 190.000/mm3  
other laboratory  data included: 
erythrocyte  sedimentation rate 3 
mm/h, immunoglobulin G negative, 
immunoglobulin M negative, Lupus 
anticoagulant conclusion tests were 
not compatible with the presence  of 
lupus inhibitor, protein C 126 %, 
protein S 121 %, and thromboplastin 
28.2 (normal ranges  and units not 
provided). 
 Doppler echo: left DVT. Enoxaparin 
(Lovenox)  initiated. Platelet count 
241, INR 1.02, PTT 28. 
Platelets =216.000/mm3 
 PT/INR = normal = 11.3 sec/1.1 ; 
APTT =  normal = 23 sec ; Normal 
CBC = normal platelets =  204 
x10^3/uL (normal range  140-400), the 
WBC was elevated  to 11.59 x10^3/uL, 
with slight increase  in IMMATURE 
GRANULOCYTES ABSOLUTE = 
0.07 x10^3/uL and MONOCYTE 
ABSOLUTE COUNT = 1.24 
x10^3/uL, and with low Mean  Cell 
Hemoglobin Concentration  31.3 g/dL; 
CMP = all normal; Lactic acid = 0.8 
mmol/L; D-Dimer and fibrinogen 
were  not evaluated;  Follow-up CBC 
CBC is unremarkable,  normal 
Platelets = 197 x10^3/uL 
The patient was on Lovenox SC + 
Pneumoboots for DVT prophylaxis 
while being hospitalized , and 
Lovenox SC only after  being 
transferred  to rehabilitation facility. 
Lovenox was administered at 
rehabilitation facility. DVT was 
suspected and confirmed  with 
ultrasound.  
The PT/INR since her  admission to 
hospital:  
 13.8/1.1;  
 12.0/0.9;  
 12.8/1.0;  
 12.7/1.0;  
The platelet count since her admission 
to hospital:   
 266 ~ 374;  
The platelet counts since her 
admission to rehabilitation facility:  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 101/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Subject ID 
Treatment 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
Reported 
Term 
Onset 
Durati
on 
SAE 
Outcome 
Severity 
Grade 
Relationsh
ip to 
Vaccine 
AE 
Star
t 
Date 
End 
Date 
Date of 
Positive PCR 
Test /  
Concomitant 
Thrombocyto
penia/Low 
Platelets 
Additional Information a  
: 269;  
 326;  
 408;  
 364;  
 410;  
 443 (H);  
 400;  
 288;  
 346;  
 339;  
 241;  
 276;  
 289;  
 317;  
Other laboratory  parameters  such as 
aPTT, D-dimer  and fibrinogen were 
not done. 
Platelet count : 254,000 cells/ul  
Platelet count ; 300,000 cells/ ul, D-
Dimer 5,285 mcg / ml (normal <0.5), 
PT 12.6 sec, PTT 32.1 sec and INR 
1.1.   
Platelet count: 305,000 cells/ul   
 Platelets: 241; Prothrombin time: 
13.6; INR:  1.0; aPTT:  28.7; 
Fibrinogen and d-dimer were  not 
collected;  
No local laboratory results for 
platelets and coagulation parameters 
were  obtained; last PCR result was 
negative. 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
NOT 
RELATED 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No 
No positive 
PCR/ 
Not known 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
No  
COVID-19 PCR negative; platelets – 
normal and D-Dimer was 925. 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
Not known 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
Not known 
Since the subject only went to the ER 
and the event was a non-serious AE, 
the investigator had initially not 
requested  medical records  and did not 
have the local laboratory  results for 
platelets and coagulation parameters 
(PT/PTT, bleeding time etc). 
No local laboratory results for the 
platelets and coagulation parameters 
were  obtained; no local PCR test 
taken 
98 
4 
40 
2 
52 
3 
68 
10 
74 
8 
35 
22 
N 
NOT 
RECOVERED
/NOT 
RESOLVED 
Grade  3 
Y 
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  3 
Y 
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  3 
N 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  2 
N 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  2 
Y  
NOT 
RECOVERED
/NOT 
RESOLVED 
Grade  4 
18 
32 
N 
NOT 
RELATED 
2021-02-2020/ 
Not known 
Platelets were  203x10e3/ml (normal 
150-370), D-dimer 350 ng/ml (normal 
0-500); PT 10.6 sec; INR 1.0; 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
57-67 
M 
MULT
IPLE 
COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
COV3009 
BLIND 
COV3009 
BLIND 
COV3009 
BLIND 
COV3009 
Blind 
30-40 
M 
WHIT
E 
54-64 
M 
WHIT
E 
31-41 
F 
WHIT
E 
46-56 
M 
WHIT
E 
65-75 
F 
WHIT
E 
COV3009 
Blind 
46-56 
F 
ACUTE 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS OF THE 
RIGHT 
LOWER 
LIMB 
DVT 
THROMBO
SIS 
ARTERIO 
FEMORALI
S 
SUPERFICI
ALIS 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
DEEP VEIN 
THROMBO
SIS 
Embolic and 
thrombotic 
events 
Nervous 
system 
disorders 
Cerebrovasc
ular accident 
THROMBO
-
VASCULA
R CVA 
RIGHT 
Embolic and 
thrombotic 
events 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 102/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Subject ID 
Treatment 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
Reported 
Term 
Onset 
Durati
on 
SAE 
Outcome 
Severity 
Grade 
Relationsh
ip to 
Vaccine 
AE 
Star
t 
Date 
End 
Date 
Date of 
Positive PCR 
Test /  
Concomitant 
Thrombocyto
penia/Low 
Platelets 
Additional Information a  
Fibrinogen 660 mg/dl (normal 150 – 
450); antibiotic was initiated with 
cephalexin. 
Participant had local positive result for 
COVID-19. 
 positive to antigens and data entered 
in EDC  
 positive local PCR on COVID-19 day 
3-5. 
NOT 
RELATED 
/ 
Not known 
No additional information currently 
available. 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  2 
Y 
RECOVERIN
G/RESOLVIN
G 
Grade  4 
Y 
RECOVERED
/RESOLVED 
Grade  4 
NOT 
RELATED 
No positive 
PCR/ 
Not known 
No additional information currently 
available. 
WHIT
E 
COV3009 
Blind 
78-88 
M 
WHIT
E 
COV3009 
Blind 
72-82 
M 
WHIT
E 
Respiratory, 
thoracic  and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Pulmonary 
embolism 
SUSPICION 
OF 
PULMONA
RY 
THROMBO
EMBOLIS
M 
Embolic and 
thrombotic 
events 
Respiratory, 
thoracic  and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Pulmonary 
embolism 
PULMONA
RY 
EMBOLIS
M 
Embolic and 
thrombotic 
events 
Respiratory, 
thoracic  and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Pulmonary 
embolism 
PULMONA
RY 
EMBOLIS
M 
34 
30 
37 
6 
a 
Additional Information (throughout the table, platelet counts are reported in thousands per microliter [equivalent to ×109/L], 
and PT and aPTT are reported in seconds, unless stated otherwise) 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 103/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory Results from CIOMS forms from Clinical Studies – Related to Thrombosis  
Table 2: 
Study ID 
Actual Vaccination 
Group 
Subject ID 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
Reported Term 
Serious 
AE 
Onset 
of AE 
VAC31518COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
65-75 
M 
EMBOLISM 
VENOUS 
Y 
36 
Start 
Date 
End 
Date 
Duration 
78 
COVID 
Testing 
Positive 
Negative 
Laboratories 
doppler scan confirmed  deep vein 
thrombosis in distal left popliteal vein. 
Laboratory  data (NR/ units not 
provided) included: Alanine 
aminotransferase  was 17, Alkaline 
phosphatase was 58, Aspartate 
aminotransferase  was 27, 
Platelet 
142 k/cmm (150-400) at 10am 
135 k/cmm (150-400) at 10:46pm 
120 k/cmm (150-400) at 3am 
137 k/cmm (150-400) at 3 am  
D-Dimer  checked  during the admission: 
D-Dimer  47,546 (<229); D-Dimer 
30,822; D-Dimer 14,664 
, Serum creatinine  was 3.22, and White 
blood cell count was 14.5, hemoglobin 
18.9 and hematocrit 59.1. a 
ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scan 
showed multiple wedge-shaped 
segmental and subsegmental filling 
defects  in both lungs that was consistent 
with acute  pulmonary emboli. The V/Q 
scan demonstrated  bilateral pulmonary 
emboli. In the same study, scattered 
ground glass and consolidative 
opacities in both lungs were  seen that 
was consistent with multifocal 
pneumonia revealed  BUN (NR: not 
provided) 21 (units not provided), 
Serum creatinine  (NR: not provided) 
1.75 (units not provided), Sodium (NR: 
not provided)  141 (units not provided),  
Potassium (NR: not provided)  3.9 (units 
not provided), Chloride (NR: not 
provided) 100 (units not provided), 
Carbon dioxide (NR: not provided)  27 
(units not provided), Aspartate 
aminotransferase  (NR: not provided) 22 
(units not provided), alanine 
aminotransferase  (NR: not provided) 25 
(units not provided) and Alkaline 
phosphatase (NR: not provided)  79 
(units not provided).  
Laboratory  tests included Prothrombin 
time (NR: not provided) 13.4 (unit not  
provided), Partial thromboplastin time 
(NR: not provided) 26.6 (unit not 
provided), International normalized 
ratio (NR: not provided) 1.14 (unit not 
provided), Fecal occult blood: negative, 
COVID-19 virus test: negative, Blood 
pressure  154/92, White blood cell count 
(NR: not provided) 7.5 (unit not 
provided), Red blood cell count (NR: 
not provided)  5.52 (unit not provided), 
Hemoglobin (NR: not provided)  16.6 
(unit not provided), Hematocrit (NR: 
not provided)  49.8 (units not provided), 
Mean cell volume (NR: not provided) 
90.2 (unit not provided), Mean cell 
hemoglobin (NR: not provided) 30.1 
(units not provided), Mean  cell 
VAC31518COV3009 
BLIND 
49-59 
M 
STROKE 
Y 
36 
59 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 104/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Actual Vaccination 
Group 
Subject ID 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
Reported Term 
Serious 
AE 
Onset 
of AE 
Start 
Date 
End 
Date 
Duration 
Laboratories 
COVID 
Testing 
VAC31518COV3001 
Ad26.COV2.S 
5x10^10 vp 
69-79 
F  
STROKE 
Y 
71 
44 
VAC31518COV3009 
BLIND 
60-70 
M 
ISCHEMIC (WAKE-
UP) STROKE 
Y 
32 
6 
Not reported 
Negative 
hemoglobin concentration  (NR: not 
provided) 33.4 (units not provided), 
Red cell distribution width (NR: not 
provided) 13.8 (units not provided), 
Platelet count: 119 (normal  range 150-
450) 10*3/uL Mean platelet volume 
(NR: not provided) 9.4 (units not 
provided), Glucose (NR: not provided) 
205 (units not provided), Heart  rate 
(NR: not provided) 136 (units not 
provided), Potassium (NR: not 
provided) 3.2 (units not provided), 
Glucose (NR; not provided) 187 (unit 
not provided), Prothrombin time (NR: 
not provided)  13.9 (units not provided), 
International  normalized ratio (NR: not 
provided) 1.2 (units not provided), 
Activated partial thromboplastin time 
(NR: not provided) 26.9 (units not 
provided).  
and a CT brain done confirmed  a sub-
acute, non-hemorrhagic  infarct  of the 
left MCA branch  territory. Other blood 
results were  within normal ranges. 
WBC 7.32, HB 12.2, platelets 284 
(units for the tests were  not provided) 
and unspecified  test reported  as other 
was negative. ECG was normal upon 
admission and showed sinus rhythm. 
CT scan  of brain did not show bleeding. 
Carotid angiography  (NR: not 
provided) some minor calcifications  on 
the left carotid interna, no significant 
stenosis and ECG (NR: not provided) 
normal sinus rhythm. Laboratory  data 
included: EEG normal. Laboratory  data 
included: Transesophageal 
echocardiogram  (NR: not provided) non 
dilated normotrophic left ventricle. 
Laboratory  data included: Carotid 
artery  ultrasound (NR: not provided)  no 
DVT visible, and MRI brain (NR: not 
provided) recent  ischemic event 
lenticulostriatal left.  
Laboratory  data (dates unspecified) 
included: APTT (NR: 28.9 - 38.1) 34.2 
sec, Activated partial thromboplastin 
time abnormal  (NR: 2 - 3) 1.02, Body 
mass index (NR: not provided) 27.5 
kg/m2, C-reactive  protein (NR: not 
provided) <1.0 mg/dL, Cholesterol 
(NR: 15 - 30) 21.8 %, Cholesterol (NR: 
32 - 72) 43 mg/dL, Cholesterol (NR: 
not provided)  155 mg/dL, 126 mg/dL, 
129 mg/dL, 198 mg/dL, Creatinine 
(NR: 0.72 - 1.17) 1.07 mg/dL, Ejection 
fraction  (NR: not provided)  66 %, 
Fibrinogen (NR: 200 - 400) 320 mg/dL, 
GFR (NR: not provided) 71.3 mL/min, 
Glucose (NR: 82 - 115) 107 mg/dL, 
Chloride 108mmol/l (NR: 98-107), 
Hematocrit (NR: 39.9 - 51) 47.6 %, 
Hemoglobin (NR: 13.5 - 17) 15.9 g/dL, 
INR (NR: 0.9 - 1.1) 0.95, MCH (NR: 
27.7 - 32.8) 34.0 pg/{cells}, MCHC 
(NR: not provided) 33.4 g/dL, MCV 
(NR: 83.9 - 98) 101.7 fL, Mean platelet 
volume (NR: 9.3 - 12.7) 10.4 fL, 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 105/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Actual Vaccination 
Group 
Subject ID 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
Reported Term 
Serious 
AE 
Onset 
of AE 
Start 
Date 
End 
Date 
Duration 
Laboratories 
COVID 
Testing 
VAC31518COV3009 
BLIND 
57-67 
F  
Y 
49 
5 
HOSPITALIZATION 
FOR 
MYOCARDIAL 
INFARCTION 
WITHOUT 
ELEVATED  ST 
Platelet count (NR: 143 - 32) 222 
10*3/mL, Potassium (NR: 3.6 - 4.8) 4.2 
mmol/L, Prothrombin time (NR: 70 - 
120) 106 %, Red blood cell count 
abnormal (NR: 4.36 - 5.78) 4.68 
10*6/uL, Red cell distribution width 
(NR: 11.5 - 13.9) 12.8 %, Sodium (NR: 
136 - 145) 142 mmol/L, Triglycerides 
(NR: 57 - 267) 147 mg/dL, Urea  (NR: 
13 - 43) 23 mg/dL, White blood cells 
(NR: 4.30 - 9.64) 8.14 10*3/mL, <1.0 
10*3/mL, and (NR: 98 - 107) 108 
mmol/L, normoblast (captured  as 
investigation) <1.0/100  
On, electrocardiogram  results: 1. Heart 
disease of presumed  ischemic origin, 
with slightly decreased  left ventricular 
systolic function, left ventricular 
ejection fraction  40%. 2. Type I 
diastolic dysfunction. 3. No shunts 
observed. 4. Study performed  in sinus 
rhythm. 14 Mar  2021 troponin level 
elevated  at   209.6. Laboratory data 
included (NR: not provided): APTT 
33.2 Control 30 sec, BUN 13.5, 
Basophils 1.25, Blood glucose Basal 
100.3, Chloride 936, Creatinine 0.75, 
Eosinophils 1.57, Hematocrit 43.1, 
Hemoglobin 14.4, INR 1.04, 
Lymphocytes 21.2, Monocytes 6.80, 
Neutrophils 62.9, Platelet count 
216,000, Potassium 4.33, Sodium 131, 
Thrombin time 13.5 sec control 13 sec 
and White blood cell count 10.2.  
Not reported 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
In the MAH  response, updated data concerning case reports with  thrombosis, thrombocytopenia and 
thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia have been provided.  
In total, from the COVID-19 clinical studies, 4 cases of thrombosis and concomitant thrombocytopenia 
are identified. The first case was assessed within  the signal validation (18-28-year-old male with  CVST 
and thrombocytopenia who developed anti-PF4-antibodies  after vaccination). The second case pertains 
to a 56-66-year-old male with  DVT and thrombocytopenia; further discussed in Q12 below. Two 
additional cases were provided with this  response; one in  a 65-75-year-old male, confounded by 
concomitant COVID-19 infection,  who was hospitalized with  acute kidney injury, DVT + pul monary 
embolism 35  days after vaccination; platelet count  was 142  x 10 3/mm3. Given the concomitant covid-
19 infection, any relation to the vaccination is unclear; this  case will not be further  discussed here. The 
second additional case concerns a 50-60-year-old male with previous hypertension and type 2  DM who 
suffered a cerebrovascular accident 35 days after study vaccination (assignment still blinded) in study 
3009.  Platelet levels were 119.  Despite a history of hypertension and diabetes type 2, which are  well 
known risk factors for CVA, the platelet findings are conspicuous and without  any clear explanation. No 
further work-up has been provided. Based on the current knowledge, this  case could potentially be 
related to  the vaccination, however, since treatment is still  blinded, no conclusion can be made. For 
the updated table on laboratory results for participants in  covid -19 clinical studies reporting thrombotic 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 106/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
events, there are additional  thrombotic events occurring within  3 weeks from vaccination (exclu ding 
placebo cases and cases reporting e g trauma or concomitant covid -19 infection): 36-46  male with 
DVT 19  days after vaccination (lab data incl platelets unknown);  83-93  with  DVT 13 days after 
vaccination (platelets, PT/INR, APTT all normal).  
From the spontaneous reports on embolic/thrombotic events and thrombocytopenia, 9 cases were 
found. One case concerns concomitant CVST and thrombocytopenia in a 32-42  female; however, this 
case is confounded by concomitant COVID -19 infection. Six of the cases were assessed previously 
(included in the EudraVigilance reports above). Two additional cases were found:  one case of 
pulmonary embolism (saddle pulmonary embolism) and platelet count of 120 in  a 51-61   male with 
history of hypertension, and one case of fatal pulmonary embolism and thrombocytopenia (platelet 
count not  reported) in a 53-63  male with  a past history of malignant neoplasm. No time to onset has 
been provided for any of these cases. These cases were also found in the  EudraVigilance search and 
are further discussed in  section 3.5.2  below. 
There were 80 cumulative case reports of embolic and thrombotic events, however, for the majority of 
cases, lab results are not included and/or time to onset is not known; the majority of case reports 
were recently received. There are some additional cases of interest, such as one male patient (age 
unknown with  a history of DVT (heterozygote for FV Leiden), with  concomitant DVT/pulmonary 
embolism and renal haemorrhage with platelet count at  191 (renal haemorrhage is not frequently seen 
in DVT/PE); one case of mesenteric artery thrombosis (unknown age and sex) 6 days after vaccination 
with  concomitant diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation  and one case of thrombosis not 
further specified in a 48-58   female occurring 15 days after vaccination with  no information on platelet 
levels but  with an INR of 1.2 potentially suggesting  coagulopathy. There are additional  thromboses 
occurring within  three weeks from vaccination, however information is insufficient to  asse ss these 
cases further. There were two cases of CVST with  normal platelet counts,  one in a  35-45  female 6 days 
after vaccination with  platelet count 270,  HIT-antibodies (ELISA) negative, anti-PF4  not provided. The 
second case of CVST occurred in a 31-41  female with  TTO of 19 days that despite normal platelet 
counts had a positive HIT-antibody test  (exact type of test not  specified); anti-PF4-antibodies  are 
pending. As previously discussed, in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, a decrease in platelet levels 
>50%  from baseline is also considered suggestive of HIT, which could thus  occur also with platelet 
levels within  the normal range. It could be possible that  a similar clinical picture might  occur also in 
thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia after vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen, however, it has 
not been confirmed whether the anti-PF4-antibodies  in the  reported case could be considered 
pathogenic or not  (presence of antibodies needs to be separated from antibodies that can activate 
platelets). It appears also that this  patient was treated with  heparin before HIT -antibodies were 
detected. 
For spontaneous case reports of thrombocytopenia, 11  cases were found , 9 of which had concomitant 
thrombosis (same cases as those discussed above). One case report concerned a  65-75  year old  
female with  COPD who had a non-serious event of low platelet  counts (138) 5  days after vaccination 
with  no further information, and one case report concerned a femal e of unknown age with  concomitant 
autoimmune disorder not further specified, who had low platelet counts (not further specified), TTO 
unknown. 
In conclusion, in the  clinical covid-19 studies, one clear case of a 18-28  -year-old male with  CVST 
and thrombocytopenia was reported. One case of DVT and thrombocytopenia in a 63 -year-old male is 
considered potentially related to the vaccination. One case of CVA and thrombocytopenia in  a  56-66 
50-60-old  male is unclear since treatment assignment has not been unblin ded, and one case of DVT in 
a 35-45-year-old male does not  have any laboratory values reported. From post-marketing case 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 107/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reports, additional  cases of concomitant  thrombosis and thrombocytopenia have been found but  lack of 
information precludes any firm conclusion on most of these cases. Additional  post-marketing case 
reports of interest from EudraVigilance are discussed in  section 3.6.2  below. There are no additional 
case reports on thrombocytopenia without  thrombosis that warrant further action at present.  
Currently, the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen RMP includes ‘thromboembolism’ as an important  potential 
risk. This should be maintained. The PRAC Rapporteur also proposes that 'Thrombosis in  combination 
with  thrombocytopenia' should be included as an important  identified risk (similar to Vaxzevria), see 
section 3.6.4/5.   
3.2.1.4.  QUESTION  4  
In that  presentation, the cases of ‘hematopoietic cytopenias’ in the clinical trials should be 
further detailed  specifically addressing whether any  of these  are attributable  to 
thrombocytopenia. 
MAH  RESPONSE 
In answer to Question 4 of the responses submitted  to PRAC on 16 April 2021, the  MAH presented 
Table 12,  in the context of the search that  was performed on the clinical studies, to  retrieve cases of 
thrombocytopenia/low platelet count regardless of symptoms.   
Table 12  had a formatting  error, as it  contained the  summary of all ‘haematopoietic cytopenia s’ in the 
study as well as the individual cases by preferred term. The MAH  apologizes for this  formatting error 
and corrected the table. Apart from the events listed in the corrected Table 3. below, there are no 
additional cases. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 108/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From this table, the  laboratory values of thrombocytopenia cases are provided in Table 4.  
Of importance, some events of thrombocytopenia that  were experienced by clinical study participants 
were not  reported as an ‘AE’ in the  clinical database. Moving forward the MAH  will ens ure these cases 
are captured from clinical studies. In future searches, these cases will be retrieved through 
implementation of specific follow-up  on cases that  meet case definition of thrombocytopenia and the 
use of specific forms to document each event. For each case specific laboratory work up will be 
requested (e.g., platelet,  SPF4). The following events are therefore not  included in the table output 
presented above. A short narrative on the new cases are provided in  the results section of the 
response to QUESTION 3:  
-  A Subject from study COV3001 (study pause case) 
-  A Subject from study COV3001 (DVT;  
-  A Subject from Study COV3001 (venous embolism, COVID positive case;) (questionable; 
confounded) 
A Subject from blinded study COV3009 (Stroke;) 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 109/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: 
Laboratory Values of Thrombocytopenia Cases Listed in Table 3 
Study ID 
Subject ID 
Treatement 
VAC31518COV1001  
Ad26.COV2.S 1x10^11 
vp, (2 doses) 
Age 
Sex 
Race 
69-79 
M 
WHITE 
VAC31518COV1001  
Ad26.COV2.S 5x10^10 
vp 
18-28 
M 
WHITE 
VAC31518COV3001  
Placebo 
18-28 
F 
BLACK  OR 
AFRICAN 
AMERICAN 
Preferred Term 
Serious 
AE 
Day of 
AE Onset 
Laboratory information 
Thrombocytopenia  N 
91 
Thrombocytopenia  N 
8 
Immune 
thrombocytopenia 
Y 
77 
PLT baseline: 181 
PLT Day 8: 197 
PLT D57 (pre vaccination: 98   aggregation of 
PLT in this sample). AE reported, grade 3 
PLT Day 64: 166 
(range 150-450) 
PLT baseline: 136 
PLT Day 8: 105 , repeat 1 weak later PLT 162  
PLT D57 : not collected 
PLT Day 64: not collected 
(range 150-450) 
BLOOD  TESTS DONE (RESULTS 
OBTAINED) SHOWED  PLATELET COUNT 
6L X 10(9)L (REF RANGE  186 - 454). HB 
AND WHITE CELL COUNT  NORMAL. LFT 
NORMAL. CREATININE  NORMAL. 
REFERRED  TO EDENDALE HOSPITAL 
INTERNAL MEDICINE DEPARTMENT ON 
04 FEB  2021 FOR ADMISSION, FURTHER 
INVESTIGATION AND TREATMENT. 
The result PLATELET COUNT 6L X 10(9)L is 
being queried  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
The MAH has clarified that  there were no additional cases of haematopoietic cytopenias; this was a 
formatting error in the  previously submitted response. There were two  subjects who  received the 
Ad26.COV2.S in  whom ‘thrombocytopenia’ was reported as an AE, one with  apparently aggregation of 
platelets in the blood sample at  day 57 and thus  not actually thrombocytopenia, and one in  a 18-28  -
year-old male with  low platelets at baseline (136) that  decreased to 105 at day 8  ; one week later 
platelets were 162.  Given the pre-existing low platelet values at baseline, this case is not  considered to  
clearly support a relationship between vaccination and thrombocytopenia.  
There was one additional case of thrombocytopenia in the placebo group ( 18-25  25-year-old female 
reporting ITP 77 days after placebo). From table 3 above, there appears to be one additional case of 
thrombocytopenia in  whom treatment remains blinded, no further details available. 
Based on the presented data, it  is not considered justified to  include ‘thrombocytopenia’ without 
thrombosis as an adverse reaction to COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. However, based on the platform data 
as discussed in the previous round, with  a clear imbalance of low platelet counts in vaccinees as 
compared to placebo, the  PRAC Rapporteur suggests that ‘thrombocytopenia’ should be included in  the 
list of safety concerns as an important potential  risk. It should as feasible therefore be actively 
followed up on ongoing PhV studies. The RMP should be  updated accordingly, see section 3.6.4/5. 
3.2.1.5.  QUESTION  5  
Laboratory data,  primarily CBC/platelet  counts remain missing for the majority of cases 
with thromboembolism in both the  clinical trials as well as post-marketing.  Additional 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 110/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information on CBC/platelet  levels  are expected  to be presented  for these cases, including 
all cases with thromboembolic events regardless of location and severity.  
MAH  RESPONSE 
Table 6  of the response to  the Question 2, received from PRAC on 9 April 2021, provided the  data 
available up to 15 April 2021.  The MAH  acknowledges the table was incomplete and is putting  in every 
effort to obtain laboratory data for the  cases with thromboembolism reported in clinical studies and 
post marketing.  
As outlined in in the response to Error! Reference source not found., the MAH is following up  on c
ases received and will  submit all available information.  
Please refer to the response to the QUESTION 3 for new information that the  MAH was able to obtain 
from the  clinical studies and from the post marketing events, since the previous submission. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
The available data was presented in the response to Q3; see assessment of this  question above.  
3.2.1.6.  QUESTION  6  
For COVID3012  SISONKE,  an open label single arm Phase 3b study in South Africa, there 
were five  cases of thromboembolism that occurred between  less than 24 hours and 23 days 
after vaccination. Normal platelet  counts have  been provided for only one of these;  for one 
case, pulmonary embolism was diagnosed postmortem and is thus not expected  to provide 
further laboratory testing. For the remaining three cases, platelet  levels  are expected  to be 
submitted. 
MAH  RESPONSE 
As stated in the response to Question 1the MAH  has reached out to the principal investigator of the 
study to expedite efforts to contact the  study centers to retrieve laboratory results for the  reported 
cases of interest. By the cut-off  date of 20  April 2021,  no additional platelet counts were ava ilable for 
any of these cases. The MAH will  provide any additional information received on these cases.  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
No additional laboratory data was retrieved for the  thromboembolic cases in study 3012.  Any updates 
on these cases should be provided in  upcoming MSSRs.  
3.2.1.7.  QUESTION  7  
In the Responses Table 5, there were  13 subjects with ‘AEs of interest’ of venous or arterial 
thrombosis in the clinical studies. There appears to be an additional 19 or 22 cases 
(different numbers appear  in the Responses) with events  of thromboembolism in  the  clinical 
studies. The MAH should summarize the main reasons for not including the  additional cases 
among AEs of interest. Notably,  laboratory data  (primarily CBC/platelet  counts) are 
expected  for all cases. 
MAH  RESPONSE 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 111/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In answer to Question 2 of the responses submitted  to PRAC on 16 April 2021, Table 4 included all AEs 
that  were retrieved from the  COVID Vaccine Janssen clinical study databases using the SMQ search 
term "Embolic and thrombotic events" (all cases).  
From the cases included in Table 4, the MAH  made a manual selection of events which  the MAH 
believed would be of interest to the PRAC. These “13 selected AEs of interest” were presented in Table 
5. This manual selection was made because the focus of the initial  discussions was mainly on certa in 
types of venous events and it was believed that  inclusion of Table 5 would facilitate the  work of the 
PRAC reviewers. 
In retrospect, the MAH  acknowledges that  this Table 5  could lead to confusion as to  the total number 
of cases provided and, hence, the MAH  would like to point out  to the reviewer that for each study 
(COV1001, COV1002, COV2001, COV3001, COV3009) the  number of participants included in Table 4 
with  an AE of Interest by System Organ Class and Preferred Term are presented in  the Subject Listin gs 
within  the Appendices of the responses submitted on 16  April 2021.     
Please note that  Table 6 in the  response document submitted  on 16 April 2021 listed all available 
laboratory data for the  cases in Table 4 of that  response document (as of data lock po int  15 April 
2021).  Many of these cases were reported as unsolicited  (non-serious) AEs; for these cases, very 
limited additional information was available at the time because it  had to be retrieved manually from 
source documents at the site (see response to QUESTION 1). In answer to QUESTION 3 of the present 
document, the Table 6 from the  responses submitted 16 April 2021 has been updated with  the 
laboratory data that  has become available (Table 1). 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
The MAH has clarified the selection of potential cases of interest. The assessor agrees that a selection 
could be helpful, however, given that  this signal warrants consideration on all potential  cases, a broad 
assessment is warranted. Data on all cases has been presented in  the new Table 1, assessed in Q3.  
3.2.1.8.  QUESTION  8 
For the  O/E analysis, it is noted that  the 18-28-year-old  male from the  phase III study that 
was reported with CVST  and thrombocytopenia has not been  included, in addition, the  52-
62-year-old  female  subject included in this analysis had thrombosis located in the legs but 
not CVST. Revised, and  updated analyses,  with the most current amount of data  are 
requested. 
MAH  RESPONSE 
Revised and updated analyses including all cases of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) 
with/without  thrombocytopenia in the company safety database at the cut-off date of 19 April 2021 are 
provided in Table 5. To Table 7. The time-at-risk window used for the  analysis is 28 days and the 
assumed reporting percentage 100%.  Exposure data, as well as the age group percentages and the 
gender percentages used for the  analysis are per the  CDC COVID data tracker website (CDC 2021).     
Please note that  the two new cases of thrombosis and concomitant  thrombocytopenia specified in the 
response QUESTION 3, are not included in the  analysis because the first case  is confounded by COVID-
19 infection and the second case is still blinded and could, therefore, have received either COVID -19 
Vaccine Janssen or placebo. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 112/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: 
CVST (10 Females;  1 Male) 
AGE 
GROUP  SEX  Observed 
Exposure 
(100,000 
PY) 
Incidence 
Rate 
(/100,000 
PY) 
LB 
Incidence 
Rate 
UB 
Incidence 
Rate 
Expected 
Expected Obs/Exp 
LB 
Expected 
UB 
LB 
Obs/Exp 
UB Obs/ 
Exp 
ALL 
ALL 
11 
3.6333 
1.16 
0.13 
19.87 
4.21 
0.4179 
1.87 
0.24 
14.24 
0.78 
0.6779 
1.60 
0.15 
17.17 
1.08 
0.5 
0.1 
0.1 
72.2 
2.6 
0.2 
23.8 
6.0 
3.8 
0.5 
29.4 
11.6 
6.5 
0.6 
69.7 
18-34  FEMALE 
35-54  FEMALE 
55-64  FEMALE 
3 
7 
0 
0.4666 
0.99 
0.04 
27.07 
0.46 
0.02 
12.6 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
UB 
7.4 
0.3 
0.3 
4.7 
UB 
Table 6: 
CVST With Thrombocytopenia (6 Females. 1 Male) 
AGE 
GROUP  SEX  Observed 
Exposure 
(100,000 
PY) 
Incidence 
Rate 
(/100,000 
PY) 
LB 
Incidence 
Rate 
UB 
Incidence 
Rate 
ALL 
ALL 
18-34  FEMALE 
35-54  FEMALE 
55-64  FEMALE 
7 
3 
3 
0 
3.6333 
0.17 
0.03 
2.04 
0.62 
0.10 
0.4179 
0.18 
0.05 
0.69 
0.07 
0.02 
0.6779 
0.07 
0.01 
0.47 
0.05 
0.01 
0.4666 
0.15 
0.00 
10.03 
0.07 
0.00 
Table 7: 
CVST Without Thrombocytopenia (2 Females) 
Expected 
Expected Obs/Exp 
LB 
Expected 
LB 
Obs/Exp 
UB Obs/ 
Exp 
11.3 
0.9 
67.1 
40.6 
10.4 
158.3 
59.4 
9.5 
371.8 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
UB Obs/ 
Exp 
5.7 
0.0 
23.4 
0.0 
AGE 
GROUP  SEX  Observed 
Exposure 
(100,000 
PY) 
Incidence 
Rate 
(/100,000 
PY) 
LB 
Incidence 
Rate 
UB 
Incidence 
Rate 
Expected 
Expected Obs/Exp 
LB 
Expected 
LB 
Obs/Exp 
ALL 
ALL 
18-34  FEMALE 
35-54  FEMALE 
55-64  FEMALE 
2 
0 
2 
0 
3.6333 
1.03 
0.10 
19.57 
3.75 
0.35 
71.1 
0.5 
0.4179 
1.68 
0.19 
14.90 
0.70 
0.08 
6.2 
0.0 
0.6779 
1.52 
0.13 
18.35 
1.03 
0.09 
12.4 
1.9 
0.4666 
0.93 
0.05 
17.74 
0.43 
0.02 
8.3 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.2 
0.0 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
The MAH has submitted  revised O/E analyses as requested. The picture of an increased incidence of 
CVST, as well as CVST + thrombocytopenia in women below 55 years of age who have been 
vaccinated compared to the expected incidences remains.  
QUESTION  9  
It is not clear which cut-off date that  was used for post-marketing data  in the O/E analysis, 
which should be  provided. Furthermore, the MAH  should provide the  time frame that  was 
used to calculate the expected  rate of these rare events  of CVST  in combination  with 
thrombocytopenia. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 113/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAH  RESPONSE 
The cut-off date for the  analysis included in the responses submitted on 16 April 2021  was 12   April 
2021.  Refer to the response to QUESTION 8 for the updated O/E analysis with  a cut-off  date of 19 April 
2021.  The time-at-risk window  used for the analyses is 28 days. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
Response noted. 
3.2.1.9.  QUESTION  10 
A stratified analysis by  gender of the populations exposed  should be provided. 
MAH  RESPONSE 
Of the total population  in the US who received under the EUA  at  least one dose of any COVID-19 
vaccine on 7 April 2021, 54.3%  were female and 45.7%  were male (CDC, 2021). 
The total doses of the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (as of mid-day 7 April 2021) by age is provided in 
Table 8. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
The MAH has provided the requested data. As of mid-day 7 April 2021,  4,183,424  doses of the COVID -
19 Vaccine Janssen had been administered (so urce: direct CDC communication). Of these vaccinees, 
54.3%  were female and 45.7%  were male. Divided by age groups, 40.8%  were <50  years of age, 
37.2%  were administered to  50-64 -year-old vaccinees and 22% were >/=65  years old. Thus, the 
distribution  of vaccinees appears to not  fully explain the young female predominance of cases of 
thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia. 
3.2.1.10.  QUESTION  11  
One  case of capillary leak  syndrome was reported among cases described for this signal. 
This condition should be followed up in monthly safety  summary reports. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 114/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAH  RESPONSE: 
The MAH agrees to monitor cases of capillary leak syndrome in the monthly  safety summary reports.  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
Noted. 
3.2.1.11.  QUESTION  12  
For the  case with concomitant DVT and  low platelet  counts in a  56-66-year-old  male study 
subject in 3001, this case should be  discussed in more detail,  including a discussion on the 
laboratory findings at admission that indicate  coagulopathy. In light of r ecent  findings, a 
discussion on whether this could be  a case of thrombotic thrombocytopenia related  to the 
Covid-19 Vaccine  Janssen should be provided. Any previous CBC/platelet  counts in the 
medical history of this case should be provided. 
MAH  RESPONSE 
All available information on a case was discussed in  the response to the immediate request for 
supplementary information submitted  to PRAC on 19 April 2021. . Based on the  underlying genetic 
condition and cessation from the blood thinners which  provide plaus ible explanation the deep vein 
thrombosis, the event is assessed to have an inconsistent  causal association to immunization, per the 
WHO causality classification for AE following immunization. Therefore, the company causality is 
considered not related to the study vaccine. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
Based on the CIOMS report, this  subject had symptoms of DVT 13 days after vaccination and 
presented at hospital  two days later. Lower extremity doppler showed left acute occlusive DVT 
visualized in the  proximal femoral, mid femoral, distal, popliteal and peroneal veins and posterior tibial 
veins. Platelet count  at admission was 141;  INR was 2.1. 
It is agreed that  this subject had strong risk factors for venous thrombosis, however, the coagulation 
laboratory parameters are deemed conspicuous, and the  timing of events is consistent with  other 
reports of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia. The MAH was asked to discuss this case in light of the 
recent findings of cases with thrombocytopenia and thrombosis following vaccination. No such 
discussion has been provided. No laboratory data that  could indicate whether the low platelet count 
was new, or pre-existing have been provided. 
In conclusion, this case is considered possibly related to the COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. 
3.2.1.12.  QUESTION  13  
The MAH  should discuss whether there  is a  need to further revise  the product information, 
to advice against  use of the Covid-19 vaccine  Janssen, in a subject who has developed 
thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia, including after  vaccination with any 
Covid-19 vaccine. Revision of sections 4.3 and / or 4.4 should be addressed.  
MAH  RESPONSE 
The MAH acknowledges that  this is an important question.  At present, Janssen is not in a position to 
make a recommendation regarding the use of C OVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in subjects who had 
previously developed thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia, including  after vaccination with  any Covid -19 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 115/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vaccine. COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a single dose regimen. No safety data are currently available for 
mixed vaccination schedules including  other COVID -19 vaccines. Thrombosis in combination with 
thrombocytopenia is very rare. An update of the product information in either the Contraindications 
(section 4.3) or Warnings and Precautions (section 4.4) is not  propose d at this time as it may prevent 
individuals with  any previous thrombotic events without  thrombocytopenia or where platelets  are not 
available, from receiving the  vaccine. The Applicant will  continue to monitor and gather additional 
information and expert insights  before making a recommendation. 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
There are currently no clear findings that  suggest that  individuals with  a history of thrombosis or 
thrombocytopenia are more at risk of developing the serious events of concomitan t thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia as compared to those without  any history of thrombosis or thrombocytopenia. 
Therefore, the PRAC Rapporteur agrees that  no update of the product information is currently 
warranted to warn against use in such individuals. Notably, this  could potentially  lead to  false 
reassurance, and also unjustified exclusion of individuals with  a history of thrombosis or 
thrombocytopenia from receiving the vaccine. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is not approved for mixing with  other covid-19 vaccines; therefore, no 
contraindication in individuals with  a history of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia following a different 
vaccine is warranted. 
For individuals with  a history of concomitant thrombosis and throm bocytopenia, including  individuals 
with  a history of HIT (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia), there could be a theoretical concern that 
these individuals could be more prone to react with anti-PF4-antibodies;  however, this  has not  been 
justified in any of the  case reports. HIT antibodies are usually short-lived once heparin is discontinued. 
Individuals with  a history of HIT  have all been exposed to heparin for some reason in  the past,  e g due 
to a previous thromboembolic event. Such a medical history could p otentially correlate with an 
increased risk of complications of covid-19 disease, given that covid-19 infection is associated with  a 
substantially increased risk of thrombosis. Therefore, any warning or recommendation not to use 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in patients with  previous HIT should be robustly justified; a theoretical 
concern is not considered sufficient  at this time point.   
However, an additional warning (section 4.4)  regarding particular attention  and need for active further 
investigation of signs of thrombosis in case a person is diagnosed with  thrombocytopenia relatively 
recently after vaccination should be added. The reason is  partly a late breaking case report for 
Vaxzevria, where a person came into primary care with  headache and was found to have 
thombocytopenia, but who was not further investigated, and sent home instead. The following  day, she 
developed a very serious condition  of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, and  shortly thereafter died. 
Although thrombocytopenia is not a labelled adverse  event for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, as it is for 
Vaxzevria, a similar clinical scenario is not considered unlikely  since thrombocytopenia could potentially 
be present early in a thrombotic thrombocytopenia scenario . In addition, there is one fatal case among 
the EudraVigilance-reported cases (see section 3.6.2  below) in  which thrombosis appears not to have 
been sufficiently investigated early after onset of symptoms  in a patient with  fatal outcome. For 
proposed wording in section 4.4, see section 3.6.5 below. 
3.2.1.13.  QUESTION  7 (MAH  response 15th April) 
The MAH  is asked  to discuss how, beyond the already  agreed  studies in the PhV  plan, the 
important potential risk venous thromboembolism, including the potential occurrence of the 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 116/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia can be further studied. Ways  o f gaining 
further mechanistic data,  both non-clinical and clinical, regarding potential  interactions of 
the Covid-19  vaccine Janssen and  the coagulation system should specifically be addressed; 
and the  following commented: 
MAH  RESPONSE 
Study the in-vitro expression of the  spike protein of the Janssen Covid-19 vaccine, and the relative 
proportions of the  spike protein expressed in the pre -fusion and post-fusion state after administration 
of the vaccine.  
The MAH has studied the in  vitro expression of the sta bilized SARS-CoV-2 spike protein compared to 
expression of the  wild type spike protein. We have shown that  stabilization of S results in differential 
binding of neutralizing and non-neutralizing  monoclonal antibodies, reduced cell-cell fusion activity and 
avoids shedding of the S1 portion of the spike protein (Bos et  al., 2020). Moreover, the stabilization  of 
the S immunogen results in  improved immunogenicity and efficacy in animal models compared to  use 
of a wild  type S based immunogen (Bos et al., 2020;  Mercado et al., 2020).  The Janssen COVID -19 
vaccine contains a gene encoding a stabilized version of the SARS -CoV-2 spike protein. The transgene 
in Ad26.COV2.S has a wild type signal peptide and codes for the  spike protein stabilized in its prefusion 
conformation by knocking out  the furin cleavage site between the  S1/S2 domains of the protein and by 
changing two additional  amino acids (positions 986 and 987)  to proline to arrest the possible hinging of 
the loop at the top of the S2 domain between the refolding region or heptad repeat 1 and the central 
or base helix (Palessen et   al., 2017;  Wrapp et al., 2020;  Bos et al., 2020).  Compared to a closely 
related Bat virus, the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein has a cleavage site that is cleaved by a furin-like 
protease at the S1/S2 junction.  Furin cleavage facilitates the binding of a higher proportion of the S 
protein to the human ACE2 receptor (Wrobel et al., 2020)  and is important  for infectivity of the virus. 
Furin  cleavage is estabilizing the Spike and is an early ste p in the refolding of the protein from the 
metastable prefusion conformation to the more stable post fusion conformation. In Figure  2differential 
antibody binding to wt  spike and stabilized spike proteins is shown. From this  analysis it can be 
concluded that with  the stabilized spike antigen  in Ad26.COV2.S the highest  ratio of neutralizing to 
non-neutralizing antibody binding  was observed indicating a  native prefusion conformation.   
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 117/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A consequence of the cleavage of S into  the S1 head domain and the S2 fu sion domain is shedding of 
the S1 head, which is induced by ACE2 binding,  and concomitant  refolding of the S2 fusion domain. In 
absence of the furin cleavage site mutation  and the double proline substitution  the protein is less likely 
maintained in its prefusion conformation and more likely to suffer from S1 shedding. Knocking out the 
furin cleavage site and adding two  prolines in the  S2 domain completely abolishes cell -cell fusion 
activity while a wild type spike protein is still  fusion active (Figure 3).  Stabilization  of the  SARS-CoV-2 
spike insert sequence also prevents shedding of S1 in  contrast when expressing a wild  type spike 
insert sequence where significant  S1 shedding is observed in vitro (Figure 4).  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 118/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, the Janssen Ad26.COV2.S vaccine expresses a prefusion stabilized S protein which  in 
vitro displays differential binding to prefusion and post fusion specific antibodies (neutralizing/non -
neutralizing) compared to the  wild type S protein. In addition,  stabilization of SARS -CoV-2 S in the 
prefusion conformation abolished cell-cell fusion activity and shedding of S1 whereas expression of wild 
type S can result in cell-cell fusion and shedding of the S1 portion of the spike protein. Shedding of S1 
is indicative of a conformational change from prefusion to a post fusion state.  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
Following  in vitro expression of the Ad26.COV2.S vector in MRC -5 cells, the stabilized S protein 
displays a differential binding to prefusion (neutralizing) and postfusion specific a ntibodies (non-
neutralizing) compared to the  wild type S protein, indicating  that  the majority of the spike protein is 
expressed in the  prefusion conformation. Further, the consequence of the stabilized S protein on 
fusogenicity was examined in  cell-cell fusion assays indicating that  the stabilized S protein in the 
prefusion conformation abolished cell-cell fusion activity. Moreover, no shedding of free S1 was 
observed in vitro, further indicating  that  the stabilized S protein is in a prefusion state.   
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 119/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study the  interaction of  the  Janssen Covid-19  vaccine with  blood components such as 
thrombocytes, erythrocytes, leucocytes etc., as  well as  coagulation factors, natural IgM antibodies; 
both in   the   presence and absence of  pre -existing immunity  to  recombinant, replication-incompetent 
adenovirus type 26 (Ad26) vector.  
The MAH is investigating  whether suitable and valuable in vitro models are available to study 
interactions between human blood components and the COVID -19 vaccine Janssen. In addition, the 
MAH  is proactively reaching out to academic investigators/experts in the field to identify any relevant 
in vitro models that  may help us to study the  above -mentioned interactions and any downstream 
effects.  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
No interaction studies of the JanssenCovid-19 vaccine with blood components have been provided. The 
MAH  is exploring whether suitable and valuable in vitro models are available and are planning to 
collaborate with  experts in the field. Timelines are further discussed under 3.5.6.    
Discuss how additional non-clinical  as well as human studies can provide further data regarding 
potential effects of the i) Ad26 vector; ii) the  spike protein on the coagulation system, including 
potential triggers of platelet activation and subsequent thr ombotic effects. This should include 
addressing whether the Ad26 vector may active platelets via interaction with  the cell adhesion 
molecule CAR (i.e. coxsackie and adenovirus receptors) or affect the structure of PF4.   
The baseline rate of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) in  the most recent 2020  and analysis of 
insurance claims in the United  States was estimated to  be approximately 1.49 CVST per 100,000 
patient years which  is equivalent 1.231  CVST/million patient  months. If  we assume that most CVST  
occurs within  1 month  after immunization  and with over 5 million  doses distributed globally by 9  April 
2021  approximately 5 cases of CVST would have been expected to be seen based on baseline 
incidence and 6 have been seen in  the context of 6.8 million do ses of COVID-19 vaccine Janssen 
administered in  the US.  The incidence is  therefore extremely low making studies on vaccine induced 
predisposing factors quite difficult  in the clinic other than measuring coagulation and other parameters 
that  may have occurred in those cases that  do occur and for which  samples are run by the treating 
physicians or can be obtained. We have had one case in over 39,000  participants who have received 
active vaccine in  clinical trials. This participant had low platelets, elevate d cytokines, borderline 
coagulation disorders and PF4 antibodies. Prospectively newly vaccinated individuals can have platelet 
counts, coagulation studies, anti-  PF4 antibodies and cytokine studies at baseline and at 14  or 28  days 
performed to estimate the incidence of such events following vaccination. The extremely low incidence 
of CVST and other outcomes may make the  effort to measure these precursors post vaccination 
difficult  to interpret but it  will be worth getting  some idea of incidence after immuni zation compared to 
matched control population for some of these parameters. It will  also be important to determine in the 
rare cases of CVST that  do occur following vaccination if there were predisposing factors such as 
narrowing of the  transverse venous sinus in the cases where this  occurs. This may allow us to 
determine if vaccine induced inflammation and subsequent hyper -coagulability is the cause of CVST or 
merely a trigger for an event that  would occur naturally outside the  context of vaccination. This  should 
be investigated because the  overall incidence of CVST following vaccination appears similar to what 
would be predicted in  a non-vaccinated population and the cases that  have been seen thus far all seem 
to be with  low platelets suggesting inflammation following vaccination may be a triggering rather than 
a causal event.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 120/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As outlined in the next section of the question, the MAH  will proactively collect clinical and laboratory 
data from cases that  are reported into the clinical trials. MAH  will be work ing closely with experts to 
assess the data, including  evaluation of possible mechanisms on platelet activation and subsequent 
thrombotic events in both the vaccinated and unvaccinated population. The MAH  will keep the 
authorities informed on the  outcome of these evaluations and will seek regulatory advice on possible 
investigative clinical/non-clinical study proposals.  
Human adenovirus type 26 is classified as species D, the largest among all human species. Although  a 
few specific types within  human adenovirus species D are associated with  epidemic keratoconjuctivitis 
(EKC) (Ad D8, 37, 53, 54,  56 and 64), the majority of  the  species D adenoviruses including human 
adenovirus 26 do not cause clinically significant  infections (Ismail 2018).  More specific, th ere is 
currently no disease known to be associated with  human adenovirus 26. The tropism of adenoviruses 
differs substantially  between species and is determined by the interaction  of the  main adenoviral 
capsid proteins, fiber, hexon and penton base with  ho st factors. Specifically, the fiber protein is 
important for vector tropism. The distal knob domain of the fiber protein can establish an initial  binding 
to a host cell surface molecule followed by an interaction between a tri -peptide Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) 
motif on the viral penton base and cellular αv integrins to facilitate  clathrin -dependent endocytosis. 
Other entry mechanisms like micropinocytosis have been described for some adenovirus types. Both 
the adenovirus fiber and the  flexible penton RGD loop exhib it considerable sequence heterogeneity 
between viral species (for example, Ad26 and ChAdOx1 share only 38.8% amino acid sequence 
homology in the  fiber protein). In vitro studies have shown that  Ad26 can use CD46, CAR, sialic acid 
and αvβ3 integrin as a receptor for infecting cells (Abbink 2007;  Li 2012;  Baker 2019; Nestic  2018). 
Although some publications suggested a role for CD46 as a receptor for infecting cells (Abbink 2007;  Li 
2012),  Baker and co-workers performed in-depth in silico and in vitro experiments and were unable to 
provide evidence of interaction between Ad26 fiber -knob and CD46 (Baker 2019).  These experiments 
did show a low affinity interaction with  CAR (Baker 2019) and aligns with  earlier publications that 
showed some binding to  CAR protein, but not  to CAR+ cells (Roelvink 1998).  Additional in vitro 
experiments also observed no transduction of CAR+ cells (Abbink 2007; Nestic  2019), or only with  a 
high dose of 10E4  VP/cell (Chen 2010).  Sialic acid was previously described to interact with  othe r 
adenoviruses and in vitro transduction  by Ad26 was also shown  to be significantly  reduced following 
neuraminidase treatment. In addition,  a high-resolution  crystal structure showed Ad26 fiber-knob in 
complex with  sialic acid demonstrating sialic acid as cell entry receptor for Ad26 (Baker 2019).  Another 
receptor that  Ad26 uses for infecting epithelial cells is αvβ3 integrin.  This was shown  by in vitro 
transduction and internalization  experiments with several cell lines by downregulating αv integrin and 
using αv(β3) integrin positive and negative cell lines (Nestic 2018).  Collectively, these data show that 
(human) adenoviruses can use a variety of host cell receptors and that  different adenovirus types may 
use different host  cell receptors and consequently display different biological characteristics. 
For on-going clinical studies, should cases of thrombocytopenia and/or thrombosis occur, a thorough 
laboratory testing  should be performed including, but  not limited  to: complete blood count incl 
platelets, haemolysis parameters, D-dimer, fibrinogen, PTT, PT/INR, antiphospholipid  antibodies and 
anti-PF4  antibodies.  
In view of the evolving situation,  the MAH  has decided to pause further vaccinations with  the COVID -
19 vaccine in its  clinical trials. The Investiga tor Brochure will be updated with  the recent safety 
information, as well as the informed consent forms. The MAH is implementing processes for evaluating 
thromboembolic events in clinical trials. This will involve:  
-  Categorization of thrombotic  and bleeding events associated with low  platelets for immediate 
reporting to the MAH.   
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 121/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Current laboratory assessments include Lupus anticoagulans, Anti -β2 glycoprotein. Anti-
cardiolipin, and D-dimers as well as prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin 
time. A standardized workup of laboratory assessments will be proposed to identify potential 
cases of thrombocytopenia and/or thrombosis based on input from external experts and 
haematologists. 
- 
Provide guidance to  investigators on diagnosis and treatment of thrombosis cases, including 
guidance for combined thrombosis/thrombocytopenia  
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
From a non-clinical perspective, no discussion has been provided on how additional  studies can provide 
further data regarding potential effects of the i) Ad26 vector; ii)  the spike protein on the coagulation 
system, including potential triggers of platelet activation and subsequent thrombotic effects. The MAH 
plans to collaborate with  experts and will seek regulatory advice on possible investigati ve non-clinical 
study proposals. Gaining further clinical data from the rare cases of thrombosis in combination with 
thrombocytopenia is endorsed prior to design of meaningful hypothesis -driven in  vitro or in vivo non-
clinical studies.  
A discussion on the putative  cell surface receptors for AD26 viral cell entry, based on literature, has 
been provided. In vitro experiments have shown that  Ad26 can use CAR (coxsackievirus B and 
adenovirus receptor), CD46 (membrane cofactor protein or cluster of differentiation 46),  sialic acid and 
αvβ3 integrin as cell surface receptors for infecting target cells.  The main receptor of human 
adenovirus type 26 seems not fully established, but current knowledge appears to identify  sialic acid–
bearing glycans as a primary entry receptor and that this  interaction can form a productive infection. 
These cell surface receptors are all reported to be expressed on human platelets ( Gupalo 2011;  Seya 
1988;  Baker 2019; Kasirer-Friede 2007).  
While putative cell surface receptors of Ad26 are discussed, whether Ad26 and cell surface interaction 
may activate platelets has not been touched  upon. In the  literature, it is reported that  adenoviral 
vectors of serotype 5 can activate platelets and cause a transient thrombocytopenia following 
intravenous administration  in monkeys (Wolins 2002),  rabbits (Cichon 1999),  and mice (Varnavski 
2005;  Othman 2009).  In mice, it  has been described that after intravenous administration,  Ad5 rapidly 
binds to circulating platelets,  which causes their activation/a ggregation and subsequent entrapment in 
liver sinusoids whereafter virus-platelet aggregates are taken up by Kupffer cells and degraded (Stone 
2007).   
Finally, no discussion addressing whether the AD26 vector may affect the structure of PF4 has been 
provided. 
In order to further establish the mechanism for this adverse event, the most critical information is a 
thorough collection of clinical and laboratory data from the affected individuals, including  all relevant 
previous clinical experience. It can be assumed that  so far unidentified risk factors are needed for 
developing this  rare condition. A genome analysis of the affected individuals for the potential 
identification  of genetic associations would  be highly informative and should be performed if feasible . 
Based on the collected knowledge, testable hypotheses for the mechanism of the condition  should be 
set up and further mechanistic studies aiming at testing these hypotheses should be designed. A time 
plan for the  mechanistic studies should be provided. 
Time lines are discussed in 3.5.6. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 122/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.2.  Updated review of EudraVigilance data with case reports of 
interest 
A search in EudraVigilance at the level of SMQ Embolic and thrombotic events SMQ (DLP 24th  April) 
retrieved 123 unique cases. Of these, 33 were presented within  a prior analysis (i.e. DLP 14th  April). 
The remaining 90  cases originated from the US (n=87),  France (n=1),  Vietn am (n=1)  and Puerto Rico 
(n=1).  The case from originated from a phase III clinical trial (i.e. COV3009: to evaluate the efficacy, 
safety, reactogenicity &immunogenicity of 2 doses of Ad26.COV.2) and concerned an event of 
pulmonary embolism (PE) in a 58-68-year-old male patient (TTO:9 days after the second dose). 
Platelet count at the  time of the  event was 185,000/mm3.   
Of the 90 cases, 33  (37%) occurred in male patients, 50 (56%)  in female patients  and gender was not 
specified in the  remaining seven. Sixtee n cases (18%) concerned fatal events. Age was specified as 
≤50 years in 27  cases (32%), ≥50  years in 34 cases (38%) and not  specified in the remaining 27 
cases (30%).   
Twelve cases reported thrombocytopenia (or related preferred terms) in combination with  thrombosis. 
This included one case in a 21-31-year-old female patient  from the,  which was provided within  a prior 
analysis (DLP: 14th  April 2021)  (i.e. VAERs case report received). This case will not  be provided again. 
The CIOMS for an additional four case s concerning events of thrombosis which were co -reported with 
thrombocytopenia were received via direct correspondence from Janssen -Cilag International N.V. 
Therefore, a total  of 15 cases were identified which  co -reported events of thrombosis with 
thrombocytopenia.  
Of these 15 additional cases, events were preceded by Covid -19 infection in one fatal case concerning 
a 32-42-year old female patient.  Of the remaining 14 cases, two met the  Level 4 interim Brighton 
collaboration case definition (i.e. reported a s TTS but  insufficient evidence to meet any level of the 
case definition)  One case, concerned a 53-63  -year-old male patient  with  a medical history of alcoholic 
cirrhosis of the liver (potential  risk factor for thrombocytopenia) and hypertension. Concomita nt 
medication included ciprofloxacin, famotidine, furosemide, lactulose, nadolol, rifaximin and senna. He 
developed profound thrombocytopenia (i.e. platelet count of 7) within  13 days of vaccination. While it 
is specified that  the patient  developed disseminated intravascular coagulation, no additional 
information was provided regarding the event. The patient was transfused with  platelets which  did not 
resolve the thrombocytopenia. Following  consultation with  haematology, IV methylprednisolone was 
initiated,  and the platelet count rose to  41. Outcome at the time of the report was unknown.  Another 
case concerns a consumer report regarding a 52-62-year old female patient  from the,  which is subject 
to limited  information. She developed peripheral swelling within  one week following vaccination. At an 
unspecified date she developed thrombosis (NOS) (i.e.  “blood clots all over her body”) and platelet 
count was specified as 7. The narrative specifies that  the patient received “3 doses of platelets”. 
Outcome at the time of the report was unknown.  A third  case reported thrombocytopenia, but a 
specific platelet  count was not provided. The patient’s previous medical history included cancer and 
current medical history included general physical health  deterioration.  
The remaining 11  cases met the Brighton collaboration interim case definition for TTS (i.e. Levels 1 -3). 
Of the 11 cases, three occurred in males and 8 in  females. Outcome was specified as fatal in one case 
and brain death occurred in a second. Median age was 40.5  years (range: 34-58).  Median TTO of first 
thromboembolic event was 11 days (range: 7-15 days). Median TTO of first symptom was 7 days 
(range: 1-15). An overview of the  cases is presented within  table 3-1. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 123/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional cases of interest  which did no t co-report thrombocytopenia 
An additional two cases concerning events of CVST which did not  report thrombocytopenia were also 
identified.  
One case concerns a 35-45-year old female patient  from the who  experienced headache, right internal 
jugular vein thrombosis, right transverse sinus and right sigmoid sinus thrombosis. The report notes 
that  the patient had no predisposing conditions  and was not  taking COC. No concomitant  medications 
were reported. Her only apparent symptom at  the time of the event was h eadache. Platelet count  was 
specified as very normal (i.e. “in the  270s”). Test for PF4 was specified as negative. CT venogram and 
MR venogram showed right jugular vein thrombosis and right transverse and sigmoid sinus 
thrombosis. Treatment included apixaban 10mg twice daily. At the time of the report, the events were 
specified as recovering.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 124/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The other case concerns a 31-41-year-old female patient  who experienced a dural venous sinus 
thrombosis (CVST) and cerebral haemorrhage 19 days after vaccine. Concomitant medications included 
spironolactone for acne breakouts due to polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). The initial symptom 
was a severe headache located in  the right posterior head. The next day a CT scan showed a cerebral 
haemorrhage, confirmed on repeat CT, and she was admitted  to intensive care unit. A magnetic 
resonance angiography (MRA) showed a dural venous sinus thrombosis. The next day, 23 days  after 
vaccination, heparin was started, and she was noted to  be heparin resistant. A heparin antibody test 
was found to be positive 9 days later and the heparin was stopped, replaced by an unspecified 
anticoagulant. The transaminases were mildly elevated during hospitalization.  The platelet counts were 
normal at  235, 3 days after admission and 177  on the day of discharge, 34  days after vaccination. The 
D-dimer was 0.49  on the  day of discharge. The subject is recovering with  headaches that are 2 out of 
10. In this  case the platelet counts were within  normal range and the  positive heparin antibody is 
confounded by the use of heparin. PCOS is known to increase the  risk for thrombosis.  
Further information has been provided concerning both cases within  the  expe rt neurologist review: 
Table 3-2.  Review by expert  neurologist 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 125/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 126/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Table 3-3. Review by expert haematologist 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment comment 
In addition to the  previously reported 8 cases of concomitant  thrombosis and thrombocytopenia in 
EudraVigilance (see 3.1.3  above), this  update includes 11  additional case reports meeting Level 1 -3 
interim Brighton collaboration case definition, that  reported concomitant thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia following  vaccination. There are two additional cases with  CVST but  without 
thrombocytopenia (one with  negative anti-PF4-test  and one with  “heparin-resistance” and positive 
heparin antibodies (test  not further specified). 
Of the 11 additional cases, 7  reported CVST; platelet counts were from 10-126k.  Eight  were female 
and 3 were male. Two cases were fatal. Median age was 40.5  years (range: 34 -58).  Median TTO of 
first thromboembolic event was 11 days (range: 7-15 days). Median TTO of first  symptom was 7 days 
(range: 1-15). One case appears to have had symptoms potentially compatible with  thrombosis before 
vaccination; however, anti-PF4-antibodies  were positive and platelet  counts improved on IVIG 
treatment. In five of the cases, there was no apparent risk factor  for thrombosis; in three cases, 
obesity was reported, one case had diabetes and one case was four months  post-partum. Overall, the 
additional cases reported are considered largely similar to the  previously assessed case reports. The 
majority occurred in females <  60 years of age, with  similar TTO and clinical picture as previously 
noted. 
As pointed out by one of the experts, it  appears that in  one case, despite awareness and medical 
attention  early when symptoms started, events evolved rapidly with  fatal o utcome. It is noted that 
CVST was not diagnosed during the first medical visits; of note, standard CT is usually not  sufficient to 
diagnose or rule out CVST; further investigations could be needed. In addition, despite additional 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 127/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
health care visits with  more severe headache, no new CT was performed. Also, a late breaking case 
report for Vaxzevira, where a person came into primary care with  headache and was found to have 
thrombocytopenia, but  who was not further investigated, and sent home instead. The following day, 
she developed a very serious condition of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, and shortly thereafter 
died. An additional warning (section 4.4) regarding particular attention  and need for active further 
investigation of signs of thrombosis in case a person is diagnosed with  thrombocytopenia relative ly 
recently after vaccination, should therefore be added. 
Since these symptoms are of relevance also for COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen and have been described in 
the case reports, a similar update is proposed for section 4.4. 
3.2.2.1.  Literature  review  
Literature findings pertain to clinical features and risk factors for thrombosis in  HIT (Arepally G.M. et al 
2021),  concluding that  clinical and biologic risk factors remain elusive.  Pishko AM et al (2020) 
discussed the  high incidence of major bleeding in patients with  suspected HIT and found that median 
sGPVI (soluble glycoprotein VI) levels were significantly elevated in patients with  major bleeding 
events compared with  those without  major bleeding events. A review of the association between 
platelet function  and immune response by Kekomäki R (2003)  discussed autoantibodies and drug -
induced platelet antibodies. Key features of the human platelet FcγRIIa receptor were highlighted  in a 
review by Qiao J et al (2015),  including pathological consequences of eng agement of this receptor in 
platelet-based autoimmune disorders. 
Krauel K et al (2011)  presented non-clinical data which demonstrates that PF4  binds to bacteria and 
forms antigenic complexes on bacterial surfaces; hypothesising that  pre -immunisation by PF4-coated 
bacteria could potentially explain previous observations of natural anti -PF4  antibodies in non-heparin 
treated patients, and that  PF4 may have a role in bacterial defence; HIT  probably being a misdirected 
antibacterial host defence mechanism. Kraue l K et  al (2012)  also identified the phosphate groups of 
the highly conserved lipid A as the binding  site for PF4  on the surface of Gram -negative bacteria, 
further supporting the hypothesis that  neoepitope formation on PF4 after binding to bacteria is an 
ancient host defence mechanism. 
A non-clinical study by Jin  Y et al (2014)  demonstrated that human adenovirus may potentiate ADP 
and ristocetin-induced platelet aggregation. Shimony N  et al (2009)  characterised the attachment  of 
Ad group C (serotype 5) to  human platelets by employing a direct flow cytometry assay on human 
platelets using a FITC-labelled anti-Ad  hexon antibody. Othman M et  al (2007)  assessed the influence 
of von Willebrand Factor (VWF)  and P-selectin on the clearance of platelets following adenovirus 
administration, conclude that  VWF and P-selectin are critically involved in  a complex platelet-
leukocyte-endothelial interplay, resulting in platelet activation and accelerated platelet clearance 
following adenovirus administration. Raddi N et  al (2016)  suggest that  capsid fiber protein (and more 
precisely its shaft) of Ad serotype 5 triggers the  cytokine production that  leads to Ad -induced 
thrombocytopenia. Perdomo J et al (2019)  showed that HIT  immune complexes induce NETosis via 
interaction with  FcγRIIa on neutrophils and through neutrophil-platelet  association. Jaax M.E. et al 
(2013)  demonstrated that  nucleic acids, including  aptamers, also bind to PF4 and enhance PF4 binding 
to platelets. Systematic assessment of RNA and DNA constructs, as well  as 4 aptamers of different 
lengths and secondary structures, revealed that increasing length  and double -stranded segments of 
nucleic acids augment complex formation with  PF4, while  single nucleotides or single -stranded polyA or 
polyC constructs  do not,  indicating that  the formation of anti-PF4/heparin antibodies in postoperative 
patients may be augmented by PF4/nucleic acid complexes and that  administration of therapeutic 
aptamers has the potential  to induce anti-PF4/polyanion antibodies and a prothrombotic diathesis. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 128/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nguyen TH et al (2017)  showed that antibodies from autoimmune -HIT patients with  high binding 
forces cluster PF4-molecules forming antigenic complexes which allow binding  of polyanion -dependent 
anti-PF4/P-antibodies.  The resulting immunocomplex es induce massive platelet activation in the 
absence of heparin. 
A recent publication  by Greinacher A et  al (2021)  concluded that the  antibody responses to PF4  in 
SARS-CoV-2 infection and after vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine AstraZeneca differ. Antibodies 
against SARS-CoV-2 spike protein do not cross-react with  PF4 or PF4/heparin  complexes through 
molecular mimicry, making it  very unlikely that  the intended vaccine -induced immune response 
against SARS-CoV-2 spike protein would itself induce antibody -mediated vaccine-induced thrombotic 
thrombocytopenia. 
Brodard J et al (2021)  tested 12 COVID -19 patients with  suspected HIT; results indicate that  COVID ‐19 
patients could present with  strong reactivity in PF4/heparin antigen tests  without  the presence of 
platelet‐activating antibodies. 
Clinical and laboratory findings in patients who developed thrombosis and thrombocytopenia following 
vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca were discussed by Greinacher A et  al (2021),  Schultz 
NH  et al (2021) and Scully M et al (2021). 
Brighton collaboration has developed an interim case definition of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia 
syndrome (TTS) following receipt of COVID -19 vaccines (2021). 
Clinical guidance on COVID-19 vaccine induced thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia ha s been presented 
by the British Society of Haematology (version 1.7  2021), the  Society of Thrombosis and Haemostasis 
Research (GTH 2021). 
PRAC Rapporteur comment 
The literature findings are noted. Although  it is currently not  clear if or to  what extent thr ombosis in 
combination with  thrombocytopenia after vaccination shares similarity with  HIT, it  is considered 
striking that  no clear risk factors apart from the setting  in which exposure to heparin occurs have been 
identified for HIT despite substantial efforts to  find such risk factors. The findings  that covid-19-
infected patients with  suspected HIT  did not have platelet-activating  antibodies are noted (Brodard 
2021)  and appear to be supported by the findings that  antibody responses to PF4 differ in  SARS -CoV-2 
infection and after vaccination with  Vaxzevria. 
There are several findings of interest in literature regarding potential  mechanisms; of note, t he MAH  is 
requested to  include a thorough literature review when providing plans for future studies,  see section 
3.5.6. 
3.2.3.  Late-breaking additional cases  
Three additional case reports were received on 28 April 2021: 
- 
1. This concerns a 29-39-year-old female, prescribed oral contraceptives (norethindrone -
ethinyl oestradiol), sertraline, Wellbutrin;  no chronic or long-standing health  conditions. 
Vaccinated with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. Date and time adverse event started on day 8. 
Admitted with  ischemic stroke and multiple thrombi in extremities  with  severe clotting 
diathesis (systemic and intracranial) causing severe stroke requiring craniotomy  and 
thrombocytopenia. The adverse events include severe headache for about a week after 
receiving vaccine, which resulted in a collapse and emergently being brought to the  emergency 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 129/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
room via ambulance where a CT revealed a stroke with  emergent IR procedure w ith 
admittance to an ICU. This was complicated by an emergent craniotomy due to increased brain 
swelling and brain deviation/herniation, which was life threatening,  which resulted in repeated 
intubation.  Now currently in ICU with  frequent checks and monito ring  for life saving medical 
care. No laboratory data provided. 
-  Case 2. This concerns a 33-43-year-old female with  a medical history of seasonal allergies, 
strain of cervical portion of right  trapezius muscle and migraine headaches. Non -pregnant. 
Current prescriptions included acetaminophen; amoxicillin-clavulanate acid; Vitamin B12; 
methocarbamol; methylprednisolone; Vitamin K2. Date when adverse events started on day 6. 
On an unknown day after vaccination patient  presents to  emergency department with  a 
headache that  started seven days prior to  arrival. Patient describes headache as different than 
normal headaches: worse with  movement and episodes of dizziness. Patient also has 
rash/redness on right cheek of the face. Vital signs within  normal ranges except blood pressure 
141/96  mmHg. Patient admitted  to hospital for further testing and management.  Medical tests 
and laboratory results related to the adverse event(s): CTA chest: mild burden of acute 
pulmonary embolism with sub segmental filling defects in the  right  lower lobe. No right heart 
strain or lung infarct. CT venography head/brain: occlusive dural venous sinus thrombosis 
involving the left transverse and sigmoid sinuses. There is no associated infarct. Possible 
additional nonocclusive thrombus in the  right internal jugular vein. Lower extremity 
ultrasound: negative for DVT. D-dimer: 27,150  FEU.  Electrolytes: within  normal ranges. CBC: 
platelets 20 10*9/L,  rest within  normal ranges. Liver function  tests: alkaline phosphatase 25 
U/L,  AST 65 U/L,  ALT 87 U/L,  rest within  normal ranges. PTT: 26.4 seconds, Dilute thrombin 
time: 14.9  seconds, Haptoglobin  208 mg/dL. At the  time of the report, the  patient had not 
recovered from the adverse events. 
-  Case 3. This report concerns a 72-82-year-old female with  bipolar disorder, hypertension, mild 
asthma, depression, prescribed albuterol, amlodipine and  venlafaxine, who was vaccinated 
with  COVID-19 vaccine Janssen. Date when adverse events started reported at  day 1 after 
vaccination. Pt felt poorly after vaccination. Presented to  the ER with GI upset, diarrhoea, 
nausea, vomiting,  fever, cough. She was sent home and presented again to be admitted on an 
unknown date with  COVID pneumonia. She was on O2 by NC then  worsening and admitted to 
ICU on hospital day 2. On an unknown date she developed arm weakness which progressed 
over days. She had a massive stroke and passed on an unknown date. Stroke did not  show 
signs of haemorrhage. Distribution of stroke was multifocal  and could suggest thrombosis. Pt 
developed thrombocytopenia in the last 24  hours of life. CT scan worsening large multi-focal 
left hemispheric stroke in multiple distributions.  This was an acute development over previous 
CT that showed one area of focal stroke. CBC on an unknown date showed plts 157,  dropped 
to 86 on an unknown date. 
PRAC Rapporteur comment 
The first two late-breaking cases concern thrombosis (ischaemic stroke in the first case and CVST + 
pulmonary embolism in the second case) with concomitant  thrombocytopenia (no values provided for 
the first case, 20 x 10*9/L  for the second case) with adverse events starting  approximately one week 
after vaccination. These are considered in line with  the previously reported cases and found to be 
sufficiently well documented to support that  an adverse event of thrombosis in combination with 
thrombocytopenia is the most  likely explanation for these eve nts. The third case concerns a 72-82-
year-old female with  COVID pneumonia who developed ischaemic stroke with  subsequent decrease in 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 130/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
platelets. A relation to the vaccination is not  clear given the  concomitant COVID pneumonia ; this  case 
is therefore not further discussed. 
3.2.4.  2nd Updated Rapporteur’s discussion 
At the approval of the CMA for Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen on 11 March 2021,  “Venous 
thromboembolism” was included as important potential  risk in the RMP, due to a numerical imbalance 
of venous thromboembolism observed in the main clinical study,  VAC31518COV3001.  
On 12 March 2021,  a signal procedure regarding thrombotic  and embolic events was started for 
another adenovirus vector Covid-19 vaccine, which recently has been finalised 8. During that 
assessment, very rare cases showing a combination of thrombosis a nd thrombocytopenia, and in  some 
cases accompanied by bleeding, have gained particular attention.   
For the Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen, a signal procedure was started at the PRAC meeting held on 6 -9 
April 2021, due to at that  time in total  four cases with suc h unusual clinical characteristics of 
thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia, occurring after vaccination with  this vaccine.  
On 15 April 2021, the  MAH responded to questions,  and the  PRAC rapporteur also received further 
information from the  EMA regarding data in Eudravigilance. The latter was updated on 17 April, 2021.   
The PRAC Rapporteur assessment that  was circulated on 19 April 2021,  focused on the review of cases 
of unusual thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia, taking experience g ained from a recently 
finalised signal evaluation9, and based on that,  evaluated the need for updates of the product 
information, as well as the need for additional  risk minimisation measures. For the AR sent out on 19 
April, 17 April 2021 was the cut-off for new data. On 20 April 2021, the  PRAC concluded on the need 
for new warnings and an update of section 4.8 of the SmPC, and subsequent updates of the package 
leaflet10.   
Within  this second step of assessment, a more in-depth evaluation of mechanistic aspects, as well as 
of the pharmacovigilance plan, and thereby the responses to  previous Q7, has been undertaken. In 
addition, review of laboratory results from clinical studies and post-marketing on conditions not 
predominantly related to the combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia have been assessed in 
more depth,  together with updates of the first response which the  MAH has submitted .  An update of 
current number of cases in EVDAS, as well as a literature review have also been included.   
Quality of the submission from the MAH 
Regarding quality of submissions, the MAH  has in the  most recent response clarified various mistakes 
including significant  formatting errors, which had been included in the previous response. This has 
clarified certain issues. Regarding missing information for cases in clinical studies as well as from other 
sources, given the severity of events, additional actions to enhance follow-up on potential cases are of 
utmost  importance, Overall, the MAH  has ensured undertaking such efforts. New important  data is 
expected to be provided to the regulatory authorities as soon as possible.  Further information on e.g. 
case reports are expected in upcoming MSSRs. 
Post marketing exposure  
8 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/prac-recommendation/signal-assessment-report-embolic-thrombotic-events-
smq-covid-19-vaccine-chadox1-s-recombinant_en.pdf 
9 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/prac-recommendation/signal-assessment-report-embolic-thrombotic-events-
smq-covid-19-vaccine-chadox1-s-recombinant_en.pdf 
10 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/ne ws/covid-19-vaccine-janssen-ema-finds-possible-link-very-rare-cases-unusual-blood-
clots-low-blood 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 131/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of mid-day 7 April 2021, 4,183,424  doses of the  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had been administered 
(source: direct Center of Disease Control (CDC) communication). Of these vaccinees, 54.3% were 
female and 45.7%  were male. Divided by age groups, 40.8%  were <50  years of age, 37.2% were 
administered to  50-64 -year-old vaccinees and 22% were >/=65 years old. Thus, the distribution  of 
vaccinees appears to not fully explain the young female predominance of cases of thrombosis in 
combination with  thrombocytopenia. 
Regarding cumulative (US) post-marketing exposure, the MAH refers to the  CDC, which reports a total 
of 7,688,499  doses of the COVID-19 vaccine Janssen being used as of 15 April 2021.   
The MAH has also specified the approximate number of individuals being within  the 21 -day post 
vaccination period as of 13 April; namely 2,489,153  individuals. Although not entirely clear what is 
meant, review of the cumulative presentation above, this exact number of subjects appear to  have 
been more than three weeks ago, and thus  possibly having past the main risk window  f or this  unusual 
clinical event.  
By end of March 2021, the  clinical study exposure is estimated to about 286  000 subjects with  the 
Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen, and more than  200 000  individuals with the  Ad26 platform. In the 
evaluation supporting the CMA on 11 March 2021,  approximately 27,200 vaccinated subjects had been 
assessed in clinical studies for death and SAEs 11. Since the additional clinical study data referred to by 
the MAH  have not been assessed by EMA, the  safety data base within  the CMA is  the most relevant 
one. 
Laboratory evaluations  
Questions (Q2, Q3, parts of Q4) were raised regarding laboratory results from clinical studies and from 
post-marketing data, regarding e.g. thrombocytopenia. Based on the data presented, there was no 
clear imbalance of thrombocytopenia without  thrombosis or bleeding in the clinical covid-19 studies. 
However, the  platform data with  a clear imbalance of low platelet counts in  vaccines as compared to 
placebo is of concern. Therefore, the PRAC Rapporteur suggests that  ‘thrombocytopenia’ should be 
included in the list  of safety concerns as an important  potential risk. It should, as feasible, therefore be 
actively followed up in ongoing PhV studies. The RMP should be updated accordingly.  
Thrombosis 
Cumulative reviews have also been presented with  respect to thrombosis solely, from clinical studies 
as well as from post marketing experience. These show a numerical imbalance in the  clinical trials with 
regards to overall thromboembolic events (35 individuals who received the vac cine, 27 placebo, 20  still 
blinded). In the phase 3b study in South Africa, five serious cases have been reported with 
thromboembolic events. There are currently 80 post-marketing case reports of thromboembolism. 
Laboratory data to conclude on any concomitant thrombocytopenia are however missing in the 
majority of cases. 
Two additional post-marketing cases of CVST without  concomitant thrombocytopenia were reported, 
one with negative HIT ELISA and one with  a positive HIT-antibody test (however apparently after 
receiving heparin for treatment).  As previously discussed, in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, a 
decrease in platelet levels >50% from baseline is also considered suggestive of HIT, which could thus 
occur also with  platelet levels within  the normal range. It is considered possible that  a similar clinical 
picture could occur also in thrombosis with thrombocytopenia after vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine 
11 EPAR  for COVID-19  Vaccine Janssen, INN-Ad26.COV2-S,  recombinant (europa.eu) 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 132/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Janssen; however, the patient with  positive HIT-antibodies had been treated with  heparin before 
testing  for these antibodies. 
Thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia 
Regarding cases with  thrombotic/ thromboembolic events and low platelets, there is a total of  21 well 
described cases (20 post-marketing including  late-breaking FDA cases and 1 study case) and one 
additional potential  study case. All the reported cases are from the US. 
In the clinical covid-19 studies, one clear case of a 18-28-year-old male with  CVST and 
thrombocytopenia was reported. One case of DVT and thrombocytopenia in  a  56-66  male is considered 
potentially related to the vaccination. One case of CVA and thrombocytopenia in a  50-60  male is 
unclear since treatment assignment has not been unblinded, and one case of DVT in  a  35-45  male 
does not  have any laboratory values reported (neither of these two  are included in the total  of 21 
cases). In addition to  the 7 post-marketing reports described in the previous round, 11 additional 
sufficiently characterised post marketing cases have been reported in EudraVigilance (section 3.5.2), 
and 2 additional cases were received from the  FDA (late -breaking information, section 3.5.3 above). 
In total, 15  of the  21 cases had CVST; other thromboses include splanchnic vein thromboses, CVA, 
peripheral arterial thrombosis and DVT. Three cases were fatal. Age ranges from 18-63  years 
(excluding the potential clinical study case for whom very little  information is given, age ranges from 
18-59  years). Of the  21 cases, 17 are female (all post-marketing). Additional cases of thrombosis as 
well as concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia have been reported post-marketing, but  lack of 
information precludes any firm conclusion on these cases. 
It is unclear if treatment  with  heparin could be used in cases with  thrombotic thrombocytopenia 
following COVID-19 vaccination. The antibodies that are considered to  be involved in this  syndrome 
(anti-PF4)  are different from those in  HIT (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia). Currently, it  is not 
considered sufficiently justified that  heparin must be avoided (see Rapporteur’s comment in  section 
3.1.2  for a more detailed discussion). Also, the Rapporteur does not find that  there is sufficient 
evidence to contraindicate or warn against use of COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen in individuals with  a 
history of HIT  (see also assessment of Q13 above). Further,  there are currently no clear findings  that 
suggest that  individuals with  any history of thrombosis or thrombocytopenia are more at  risk of 
developing the serious events of concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia as compared to  those 
without  any history of thrombosis or thrombocytopenia. Therefore, the PRAC Rapporteur does not 
propose any warning  or precautions in such individuals. Notably, any such warning could potentially 
lead to false reassurance, and also unjustified exclusion of individuals with  a history of thrombosis or 
thrombocytopenia from being vaccinated. 
However, an additional warning (section 4.4)  regarding particular attention  and need for active further 
investigation of signs of thrombosis, in case a person is diagnosed with  thrombocytopenia relatively 
recently after vaccination should be added. The reason is a late breaking case report for Vaxzevria, 
where a person came into primary care with  headache and was found to h ave thrombocytopenia, but 
who was not further investigated, and sent home instead. The following day, she developed a very 
serious condition  of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, and shortly thereafter died. There is also one 
fatal case report from EudraVigilance after COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (section 3.6.2)  in which 
thrombosis appears not to have been sufficiently investigated early after onset of symptoms.  
Since these symptoms have been described and are of relevance also for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, a 
similar update is proposed for section 4.4 (see 3.6.5). 
O/E analyses  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 133/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The O/E analysis submitted by the MAH  is based on very limited date since it  CVST in combination with 
thrombocytopenia is an extremely rare medical condition,  and reported cases so far are few.  The MAH 
has updated the analyses with the  most recent and corrected data as requested. The picture of an 
increased incidence of CVST, as well as CVST in combination with  thrombocytopenia in wom en below 
55 years of age who have been vaccinated compared to the expected incidences remains.  
Causality discussion   
Across the non-clinical studies with  Ad26.COV2.S and other Ad26-based vaccines there were no 
observations indicating an adverse vaccine -related effect on thrombosis and/or thrombocytopenia. The 
study findings were generally limited to mild and transient effects expected from a local and general 
inflammatory reaction subsequent to vaccination. Given the very low incidence of the thromboembol ic 
events or coagulopathies associated with Ad26.COV2.S, likely of multifactorial  aetiology, it  is not 
unexpected that  no signals are observed in healthy animals.   
Taken together, the non-clinical data with  Ad26.COV2.S and other Ad26-based vaccines provide no 
further understanding on potential causal relationship between vaccination with  Covid -19 vaccine 
Janssen and the  events of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia. 
In the first response (15 April), the MAH  concluded that  the number of thrombotic events with 
thrombocytopenia are low and there is insufficient data to  conclude a definitive causal association with 
the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. Nevertheless, following further PRAC discussions, the MAH agreed to update 
also section 4.8  of the  PI, and thus  that there is at least a reasonable possibility of causality. As 
concluded in the AR of 19 April, the PRAC Rapporteur considers that a causal association is sufficiently 
supported based on the following: 
- 
The observed cases with CVST and concomitant thrombocytopenia repres ent clinical entities that 
are extremely rare in an overall population. Although CVST is well-known  to occur predominantly 
in younger females, often related to hormonal factors such as pregnancy, puerperium or estrogen -
containing medications, concomitant thrombocytopenia is not part of any usual clinical picture for 
CVST. 
- 
The findings of positive anti-PF4-antibodies  in several cases, in one case with  documented non -
existing anti-PF4-antibodies  before vaccination, suggest that  the clinical picture is likely due to 
these antibodies. A similarity with  HIT (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia) is evident based on 
the clinical picture; however, there is no known exposure to heparin before the events of 
thrombosis and thrombocytopenia in any of the  reported cases, an d in one case, a screening test 
for anti-PF4/heparin antibodies by latex-enhanced immunoassay was negative whereas results of 
a PF4/polyanion ELISA were strongly positive. 
- 
In several cases, there was no apparent risk factor for CVST or other thrombosis or  for 
thrombocytopenia. For  a picture of thrombotic thrombocytopenia with positive anti -PF4-
antibodies, this is similar to “spontaneous HIT” which is characterized by a similar clinical and 
laboratory picture in patients without  exposure to heparin; however,  some trigger is warranted in 
such cases (such as surgery, infectious disease etc). The only common trigger in these cases is 
the vaccination with  the Ad26.COV2.S vaccine. 
- 
The timing of events is congruent for all the cases, with  symptoms of thrombosis and/or 
thrombocytopenia occurring within  three weeks from the vaccination. This is also in line with  what 
is known for HIT type II and spontaneous HIT as well as for the thrombotic thrombocytopenia 
related to  another adenoviral vector COVID -19 vaccine. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 134/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Extensive work-up excluding other potential  causes of thrombosis and/or thrombocytopenia has 
been provided for two  of the cases. This includes antiphospholipid  antibodies, homocysteine, 
Factor VIII, antithrombin,  protein C, protein S, Factor V Leiden, prothrombi n gene mutation, 
hepatitis/HIV,  ADAMTS 13, PNH  and JAK2. The only abnormality that  could explain the clinical 
picture in these cases was positive anti-PF4-antibodies. 
Based on the above, the product information section 4.4 and 4.8  were updated in the previous round. 
Further regulatory action and additional studies 
Product information  
No risk groups for thrombosis in  combination with thrombocytopenia have been identified  with regards 
to previous thrombosis, thrombocytopenia or both. None of the reported cases have a history 
suggestive of HIT (heparin-induced thrombocytopenia) or have described exposure to heparin prior to 
vaccination. At present, no contraindication,  warning or precaution is considered well-founded enough 
to be included in the product information. 
However, an additional warning (section 4.4)  regarding particular attentio n  and need for active further 
investigation of signs of thrombosis, in case a person is diagnosed with  thrombocytopenia relatively 
recently after vaccination should be added. The reason is a late breaking case report for Vaxzev ria, 
where a person came into primary care with  headache and was found to have thrombocytopenia, but 
who was not further investigated, and sent home instead. The following day, she developed a very 
serious condition  of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, and shortly thereafter died . Also, there is one 
fatal case report from EudraVigilance (section 3.6.2)  in which thrombosis appears not to  have been 
sufficiently investigated early after onset of symptoms. 
Since these symptoms are of relevance also for COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen and have been described in 
the case reports, a similar update is proposed for section 4.4. 
RMP 
There was no clear imbalance of thrombocytopenia without  thrombosis or bleeding in the clinical 
studies. However, based on platform data with  a n imbalance of low platelet counts in  vaccinees as 
compared to placebo, the  PRAC Rapporteur suggests that ‘thrombocytopenia’ should be included in  the 
list of safety concerns as an important potential  risk. 
Currently, the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen RMP includes ‘thromboembolism’ as an important  potential 
risk. This should be maintained. The PRAC Rapporteur also proposes that 'Thrombosis in  combination 
with  thrombocytopenia' should be included as an important  identified risk (similar to Vaxzevria).  
The MAH has addressed questions regarding additional research and studies,  as raised by the PRAC on 
9 April. Based on the response the following is concluded:   
-  No interaction studies of the JanssenCovid-19 vaccine with blood components have been 
provided. The MAH is exploring whether suitable and valuable in vitro models are available 
and are planning to  collaborate with experts in the field. This is agreed. The MAH  should 
provide a more detailed plan on this work within  30  days. (RSI).  
- 
From a non-clinical perspective, no discussion has been provided on how additional  studies 
can provide further data regarding potential effects of the  i) Ad26 vector; ii) the spike 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 135/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
protein on the coagulation system, including  potential triggers of platelet activation and 
subsequent thrombotic effects. The MAH  plans to collaborate with  experts and will seek 
regulatory advice on possible investigative non-clinical study proposals. Gaining further 
clinical data from the  rare cases of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia is 
endorsed prior to  design of meaningful hypothesis-driven in vitro or in vivo non-clinical 
studies. This is agreed. The MAH should provide a more detailed plan on this work within 
90 days, which should include a through literature review,  
-  A discussion on the putative  cell surface receptors for AD26 viral cell entry, based on 
literature, has been provided. In vitro experiments have shown that  Ad26 can use CAR 
(coxsackievirus B and adenovirus receptor), CD46 (membrane cofactor protein or cluster of 
differentiation 46), sialic acid and αvβ3 integrin  as cell surface receptors for infecting target 
cells. The main receptor of human adenovirus type 26 seems not fully established, but 
current knowledge appears to identify sialic acid–bearing glycans as a primary entry 
receptor and that  this interaction can form a productive infection. These cell surface 
receptors are all reported to  be expressed on human platelets (Gupalo 2011;  Seya 1988; 
Baker 2019; Kasirer-Friede 2007).   
-  While putative cell surface receptors of Ad26 are  discussed, whether Ad26 and cell surface 
interaction may activate platelets has not been touched upon. In the literature, it is 
reported that  adenoviral vectors of serotype 5 can activate platelets and cause a transient 
thrombocytopenia following  intravenous administration in monkeys (Wolins 2003),  rabbits 
(Cichon 1999),  and mice (Varnavski 2005; Othman 2009).  In mice, it has been described 
that  after intravenous administration, Ad5 rapidly binds to  circulating platelets, which 
causes their activation/aggregation and subsequent entrapment in liver sinusoids 
whereafter virus-platelet aggregates are taken up by Kupffer cells and degraded (Stone 
2007).   
- 
Finally, no discussion addressing whether the AD26 vector may affect the structure of PF4 
has been provided. 
In order to further establish the mechanism for this adverse event, the most critical information is a 
thorough collection of clinical and laboratory data from the affected individuals, including  all relevant 
previous clinical experience. It can be assume d that  so far unidentified risk factors are needed for 
developing this  rare condition. A genome analysis of the affected individuals for the potential 
identification  of genetic associations would  be highly informative and should be performed if feasible. 
Based on the collected knowledge, testable hypotheses for the mechanism of the condition  should be 
set up and further mechanistic studies aiming at testing these hypotheses should be designed. A time 
plan for the  mechanistic studies should be provided. 
The RMP should be updated accordingly, and the  current PhV  activities should be revised to reflect data 
collection also for these safety concerns, as feasible.  
Updates in Monthly  safety summary reports (MSSRs) 
Any updates on cases reports so far, as well as of coming case, should be provided in  upcoming MSSR. 
Furthermore, a literature review on new key clinical data in relation to thrombosis in combination with 
thrombocytopenia should be included, together with  updates on number of cases reported post 
marketing, presented also based on geographical region.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 136/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.5.  2nd Updated Rapporteur’s recommendation 
The PRAC rapporteur recommends updates of section 4.4  of the SmPC, and of section s 2, 4 and 6 of 
the Package leaflet. 
The following wording is proposed (new text in bold italics): 
Section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders 
A combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in  some cases accompanied by bleeding, has been 
observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe cases 
of venous thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral ve nous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein 
thrombosis as well as arterial thrombosis concomitant with  thrombocytopenia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in women 
under 60 years of age. Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of 
thromboembolism and/or thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate 
medical attention  if they develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pa in, leg pain, leg 
swelling, or persistent abdominal pain following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological 
symptoms including  severe or persistent headaches, seizures, confusion or blurred vision after 
vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond the  site of vaccination after a few 
days, should seek prompt medical attention.  Thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia 
requires specialised clinical management. Healthcare professionals should consult applicable guidance 
and/or consult specialists (e.g., haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to diagnose and treat this 
condition. 
In individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia after  vaccination with COVID-19  Vaccine 
Janssen,  a high clinical suspicion is warranted,  and patients should be actively  investigated 
for signs of thrombosis. 
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
[…] 
As with any vaccine, vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen may not  fully protect all those who 
receive it. It is not known how long you will be protected. 
Blood disorders 
A combination of blood clots and low levels of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to clot) in  the blood has 
been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe 
cases with  blood clots, including in unusual locations such as the brain, liver, bowel and spleen, in 
some cases in combination with  bleeding. These cases occurred within  the first  three weeks following 
vaccination and occurred mostly in women below 60 years of age. Fatal outc ome has been reported. 
Seek immediate medical attention  if you experience severe or persistent headaches , seizures, 
confusion or blurred vision, unexplained skin bruising beyond the  site of vaccination which appear a 
few days after vaccination,  pinpoint round spots beyond the  site of vaccination, develop 
shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain, leg swelling, or persistent abdominal pain. Inform your 
health care provider that  you have recently received COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 137/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4 
PRAC rapporteur comment: It is proposed that  this section is started highlighting  the  very rare, 
serious ADR of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia.  
Introducing the section with:   
Like all vaccines, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen can cause side effects, although  not everybody gets them. 
Most  of the  side effects occur in the 1 or 2 days of getting  the vaccination.   
Blood clots often in unusual locations (e.g. brain, liver, bowel, spleen) i n combination with 
low level  of blood platelets (thrombocytopenia) have  been observed very  rarely (may  affect 
up to 1 in 10,000 vaccinated  individuals).  
Get  urgent medical attention  if from a few days following vaccination you get  any of the 
following symptoms: 
- 
- 
- 
experience  a  severe or persistent headache,  blurred vision, confusion or seizures (fits)  
develop shortness of breath,  chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain  or persistent abdominal 
pain 
notice unusual skin bruising or pinpoint round spots beyond the  sit e of vaccination 
Get  urgent medical attention  if you get symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. ….  …//… 
…//… 
Section 6  
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:  
[…] 
•  Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism 
and/or thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed  to seek immediate medical 
attention  if they develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain,  leg pain, leg 
swelling, or persistent abdominal pain following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with 
neurological symptoms including severe or persistent headaches, seizures, confusion or 
blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (pete chia) beyond the site of 
vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.  Thrombosis in  combination 
with  thrombocytopenia requires specialised clinical management. Healthcare professionals 
should consult applicable guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., haematologists, specialists 
in coagulation) to diagnose and treat  this condition. 
• 
In individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia after  vaccination with COVID-19 
Vaccine  Janssen, a high clinical suspicion is warranted, and patients  shou ld be 
actively  investigated  for signs of thrombosis. 
RMP 
1. 
'Thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia' should be included as an important 
identified risk based on the observed case reports and that a causal association is considered 
sufficiently supported. ‘Thromboembolism’ is currently included as an important  potential risk. 
This should be maintained. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 138/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
‘Thrombocytopenia’ should be included in the list of safety concerns as an important potential 
risk, based on the imbalance of decreased platelet counts   in the platform data. 
3.  The current PhV activities should be revised to reflect data collection also for these safety 
concerns, as feasible. Furthermore, the following should be addressed in the RMP:  
a.  The MAH should provide a more detailed plan on interaction studies of the 
JanssenCovid-19 vaccine with  blood components within  30 days 
b.  The MAH should provide a more detailed plan on how additional studies can provide 
further data regarding potential effects of the i) Ad26 vector; ii)  the spike protein on 
the coagulation system, including potential triggers of platelet activation and 
subsequent thrombotic effects. Gaining further clinical data from the rare cases of 
thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia is endorsed prior to  design of 
meaningful hypothesis-driven in vitro or in  vivo non-clinical studies. This plan should 
be provided within  90 days. A thorough literature review should be included, and this 
should also be taken into account for the expected plan for further research in this 
topic. 
As revised RMP should be submitted,  to reflect the  points above. 
3.2.6.  Comments from other PRAC members 
Supportive comments were received from Member  states. 
Member  state  1: 
We fully agree with the  PRAC Rapporteur. We have some comments on the proposed amendments of 
the SmPC and PL: 
Section 4.4 
-  Use of the  term ‘Thrombosis with  Thrombocytopenia Syndrome (TTS) may be considered in 
this section. 
- 
For the addition  of ‘confusion’: it is suggested to use ‘mental status  change’, as mental status 
changes (including  confusion) is a presenting symptom in CVST in 22%  (Capecchi et al. 2018) 
and this would  also cover other symptoms of alert such as confusion, behaviour disorders, 
amnesia, delirium etc. 
- 
For the additional warning regarding high clinical suspicion, the f ollowing may be considered: 
As Thrombosis with  Thrombocytopenia Syndrome may initially present with  symptoms or signs 
of either thrombosis or thrombocytopenia, patients  who are diagnosed with  unexplained 
thrombocytopenia following  vaccination even in the  a bsence of signs and symptoms of 
thrombosis should be actively investigated for evidence of thrombosis. Similarly, patients who 
present with thromboembolism following vaccination should be evaluated for 
thrombocytopenia.   
The proposed addition in section 6 of the PL is not supported. Following  input  from EMA (QRD) may be 
considered: 
“According to  QRD template 10.2,  this section should include practical information specially for 
parenteral preparations relevant for healthcare professionals, such as on prepar ation and/or handling, 
incompatibilities,  posology of the  medicine, overdose or monitoring measures and laboratory 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 139/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investigations, where relevant. Therefore, I don´t  think that  this is the best place to include 
information on the safety warning on thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders that  could happen 
within  the first fourteen days following vaccination. Moreover, please also note that  no information on 
the anaphylactic reactions that  could happen even sooner than the thrombocytopenia disorders 
following the administration  of the  vaccine have been included in this  section for any of the  other 
authorised COVID-19 vaccines. Therefore, I would not  be in favour of including  this information to 
keep consistency with  the information included so far.” 
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
For section 4.4, we consider that  the initial  part of the first proposed sentence (’As Thrombosis with 
Thrombocytopenia Syndrome may initially present with  symptoms or signs of either thrombosis or 
thrombocytopenia’) is not  warranted (also to avoid naming this  ‘TTS’ at  present). We fully agree to 
change ‘confusion’ to  ‘mental status change’. Also, not only ‘unexplained’ thrombocytopenia but any 
thrombocytopenia should warrant active investigation for evidence of thrombosis (notably, 
thrombocytopenia is not  uncommon after other vaccinations). Further,  we do not  think that  patients 
without  any signs or symptoms of thrombosis should be actively investigated for thrombosis  – it  is not 
clear what  this means and could cause confusion among  prescribers and potentially lead to 
unnecessary radiological investigations. 
For our amended proposal for section 4.4,  see section 3.6.8  below. 
For section 6, this  section was updated within  the previous round of this procedure.  
3.2.7.  Response from MAH (submitted 30 April 2021) 
SUMMARY  OF  PRODUCT  CHARACTERISTICS 
Section 4.4. Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders  
The Company agrees with the  Rapporteur to include a paragraph to highlight  the importance of active 
investigation and proposes to move the proposed new text  to the end of the  second paragraph under 
“Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders” as an extension of the  existing signs and symptoms 
that  physicians should be aware of. The Company also proposes to include a timeframe "within  three 
weeks" during which  physicians should remain vigilant  and also proposes to replace patients with 
"vaccine recipients". 
PACKAGE LEAFLET  
Section 2. What you need to  know before you are given COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen 
The Company agrees to move the following sentence "A s with  any vaccine, vaccination with  COVID -19 
Vaccine Janssen may not fully protect all those who receive it. It is not known how long you will be 
protected." under Warnings and precautions (ie, above the blood disorders paragraph).  
The Company proposes to include the patient  friendly term "fits" after “seizures” to  align with the 
Rapporteur proposal in  Section 4, when  describing when to seek immediate medical attention  under 
Blood disorders in the  context of the  following paragraph: 
"Seek immediate medical attention,  if you experience severe or persistent headaches seizures (fits), 
confusion or blurred vision, unexplained skin bruising beyond the  site of vaccination which appear a 
few days after vaccination, pinpoint round spots beyond the  site of vaccination, develop 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 140/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain, leg swelling, or persistent abdominal pain. Inform your 
healthcare provider that  you have recently received COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen." 
Section 4. Possible side effects 
The Company agrees to add the proposed text relating to possible side effects. 
Section 6 Contents of the package and other information 
The Company agrees with the  Rapporteur to include a paragraph to highlight  the importance of active 
investigation and proposes to move the proposed new te xt  to the end of the  6th bullet  point under 
“The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only” as an extension of the existing 
signs and symptoms that  physicians should be aware of. 
The Company also proposes to include a timeframe "within  three weeks" during  which physicians 
should remain vigilant  and also proposes to replace patients with  "vaccine recipients".  
RISK MANAGEMENT  PLAN  (RMP) 
RECOMMENDATION 1 
Thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia should be included as an  important identified risk 
based on the observed case reports and that  a causal association is considered sufficiently supported. 
'Thromboembolism' is currently included as an important potential risk. This should be maintained.  
APPLICANT RESPONSE 
The Company agrees to include thrombosis in  combination with thrombocytopenia as an important 
identified risk in the EU-RMP, based on a plausible association. The Company would  like to clarify that 
Venous Thromboembolism (and not all forms of Thromboembolism) is cu rrently included as an 
important potential  risk. 
RECOMMENDATION 2 
'Thrombocytopenia' should be included in the list of safety concerns as an important potential  risk, 
based on the imbalance of decreased platelet counts in the platform data.  
APPLICANT RESPONSE 
The Company respectfully disagrees with  the proposed inclusion of thrombocytopenia as an important 
potential risk, considering: •  The late breaking cases reported following vaccination with  the 
AstraZeneca vaccine Vaxzevria are cases within the spectrum of thrombosis in combination with 
thrombocytopenia, which  will be included as an important  identified risk. • Thrombocytopenia is 
commonly reported as an Adverse Event following immunization,  especially following immunization 
with  live attenuated  viral vaccines. The mechanistic evidence is considered weak to  establish a causal 
relationship. In most cases, such events of thrombocytopenia are either asymptomatic or mild  (IOM, 
2012).  • The reports of low platelets / thrombocytopenia observed within  28 days following study 
vaccination during clinical development of other Ad26-based vaccines were determined to  be transient 
in nature and not associated with  a thrombotic or embolic event: Platelet count decrease was observed 
following 70 out  of 4,105  Ad26 doses (1.7%)  and 7 out of 719 placebo doses (1.0%).  In total,  18 
cases of Grade 3 platelet count decrease cases were reported within  28 days  following Ad26 
vaccination (mostly coinciding with  the 8  days post-vaccination visit). Except one case for which the 
safety laboratory assessment was not repeated, all Grade 3  platelet count decrease cases returned to 
normal range upon retesting in the days following the Grade 3 event. A single case of persistent 
(duration 40 days), grade 3 thrombocytopenia was reported in a  54-64-year-old female following 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 141/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vaccination with Ad26.RSV.preF (study VAC18193RSV1004, RSV adult program). The subject remained 
asymptomatic throughout the duration  of the  event and had normal physical exams (no bruising 
and/or petechiae reported). This is described in further detail in the  response to the PRAC meeting of 
07 April, Question 4.3 (Ad26 Platform Data). Based on the above, the Company considers that 
standalone thrombocytopenia does not  meet the  criteria to be considered an important potential  risk. 
The Company considers the proposed wording in the  SmPC Warnings and Precautions section to be 
adequate (with  amendments, see response to SmPC recommendations) appropriate. However, the 
Company considers this  to be a risk minimization measure for thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia not 
for thrombocytopenia alone.  
RECOMMENDATION 3 
The current PhV activities should be revised to reflect data collection also for these safety concerns, as 
feasible. Furthermore, the following should be addressed in the RMP: a. The MAH should provide a 
more detailed plan on interaction studies of the Janssen COVID -19 vaccine with blood components 
within  30 days. b. The MAH  should provide a more detailed plan on how  additional studies can provide 
further data regarding potential effects of the i) Ad26 vector; ii)  the spike protein on the coagulation 
system, including potential triggers of platelet activation a nd subsequent thrombotic effects. Gaining 
further clinical data from the rare cases of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia is 
endorsed prior to  design of meaningful hypothesis  driven in vitro or in  vivo non-clinical studies. This 
plan should be provided within  90 days. A thorough literature review should be included, and this 
should also be taken into account for the expected plan for further research in this topic.  
APPLICANT RESPONSE 
The Company agrees to provide more detailed proposed study pl ans as requested above but would 
appreciate clarification on how to address this in  the EU-RMP. 
PRAC Rapporteur Comment 
For the SmPC, the addition of a timeframe for thrombocytopenia of "within  three weeks" during which 
physicians should be vigilant, see updated proposed recommendation in section 3.6.8 below. 
It is not considered appropriate to  replace patients with  "vaccine recipients" for those who are 
diagnosed with  either thrombocytopenia or thrombosis, since they would normally be considered 
patients if they have required a work-up for either thrombocytopenia or thrombosis. 
For the PL, the  MAH proposed amendments regarding fits (section 2) and timeframe (section 6)  are 
accepted, see revised proposal in section 3.6.8 below. 
For the RMP, it  has been clarified in  the recommendations that the  current important  potential risk (to 
be maintained) pertains to  venous thromboembolism only. 
The Rapporteur maintains that  ‘thrombocytopenia’ should be listed as an important  potential risk. The 
imbalance in the  platform data is sufficiently clear to support  this, and  therefore, it is considered to 
classify thrombocytopenia as an important potential  risk. The case in the platform data reiterated by 
the MAH  (54-64-year-old female with  grade 3 thrombocytopenia for more than 40  days) is not 
considered to support that  this cannot be clinically relevant. 
Regarding how to  address this in the RMP;  all parts of the RMP should be updated to reflect the new 
safety concerns. Furthermore, the PhV -plan should be updated with  revised / new proposals for 
additional data collection including studies.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 142/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is anticipated that  a revised RMP is submitted  within  another procedure, within  a relatively short 
time frame. This needs further confirmation with  the EMA.   
3.2.8.  3rd Updated Rapporteur’s proposed recommendation 
The PRAC rapporteur recommends updates of section 4.4  of the SmPC, and of sections 2, 4 and 6 of 
the Package leaflet. 
The following wording is proposed (new text in bold italics, changes from 2nd recommendation 
highlighted): 
Section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders 
A combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in  some cases accompanied by bleeding, has been 
observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe cases 
of venous thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis , splanchnic vein 
thrombosis as well as arterial thrombosis concomitant with  thrombocytopenia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in women 
under 60 years of age. Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of 
thromboembolism and/or thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate 
medical attention  if they develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain,  leg pain, leg 
swelling, or persistent abdominal pain following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological 
symptoms including  severe or persistent headaches, seizures, mental  status change or blurred 
vision after vaccination, or who  experiences skin bruising (petec hia) beyond the site of vaccination 
after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.  Thrombosis in combination with 
thrombocytopenia requires specialised clinical management. Healthcare professionals should consult 
applicable guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to 
diagnose and treat this  condition. 
In individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia within 3 weeks  after vaccination with 
COVID-19  Vaccine  Janssen, a high clinical suspicion is warranted,  and patients  should be 
actively  investigated  for signs of thrombosis. Similarly, patients who present with 
thromboembolism following vaccination should be evaluated  for thrombocytopenia. 
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
[…] 
As with any vaccine, vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen may not  fully protect all those who 
receive it. It is not known how long you will be protected. 
Blood disorders 
A combination of blood clots and low levels of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to clot) in  the bloo d has 
been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe 
cases with  blood clots, including in unusual locations such as the brain, liver, bowel and spleen, in 
some cases in combination with  bleeding. These cases occurred within  the first  three weeks following 
vaccination and occurred mostly in women below 60 years of age. Fatal outcome has been reported.  
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 143/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seek immediate medical attention  if you experience severe or persistent headaches , seizures (fits), 
mental  status change or blurred vision, unexplained skin bruising beyond the site of vaccination 
which appear a few days after vaccination,  pinpoint round spots beyond the  site of vaccination, 
develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain, leg swelling, or persistent abdominal pain. Inform 
your health  care provider that you have recently received COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Section 4 
PRAC rapporteur comment: It is proposed that  this section is started highlighting  the  very rare, 
serious ADR of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia.  
Introducing the section with:   
Like all vaccines, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen can cause side effects, although  not everybody gets them. 
Most  of the  side effects occur in the 1 or 2 days of getting  the vaccination.   
Blood clots often in unusual locations (e.g. brain, liver, bowel, spleen) in combination with 
low level  of blood platelets (thrombocytopenia) have  been observed very  rarely (may  affect 
up to 1 in 10,000 vaccinated  individuals).  
Get  urgent medical attention  if from a few days following vaccination you get  any of the 
following symptoms: 
- 
- 
- 
experience  a  severe or persistent headache,  blurred vision, mental  status change or 
seizures (fits) 
develop shortness of breath,  chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain  or persistent abdominal 
pain 
notice unusual skin bruising or pinpoint round spots beyond the  site of vaccination  
Get  urgent medical attention  if you get symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. ….  …//… 
…//… 
Section 6  
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
[…] 
•  Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism 
and/or thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed  to seek immediate medical 
attention  if they develop symptoms such as sho rtness of breath, chest pain, leg pain, leg 
swelling, or persistent abdominal pain following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with 
neurological symptoms including severe or persistent headaches, seizures, mental  status 
change or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond 
the site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.  Thrombosis in 
combination with  thrombocytopenia requires specialised clinical management. Healthcare 
professionals should consult applicable guidance and/or consult  specialists (e.g., 
haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to  diagnose and treat this condition.  
• 
In individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia within 3 weeks  after vaccination 
with COVID-19  Vaccine Janssen,  a high clinical suspicion is warranted, and patients 
should be actively  investigated  for signs of thrombosis. Similarly, patients who 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 144/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
present with thromboembolism following vaccination should be evaluated  for 
thrombocytopenia. 
RMP 
4. 
'Thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia' should be included as an important 
identified risk based on the observed case reports and that a causal association is considered 
sufficiently supported. ‘Venous Thromboembolism’ is currently included as an important 
potential risk. This should be maintained. 
5. 
‘Thrombocytopenia’ should be included in the list of safety concerns as an important potential 
risk, based on the imbalance of decreased platelet counts  in the platform data.  
6.  The current PhV activities should be revised to reflect data collection also for these safety 
concerns, as feasible. Furthermore, the following should be addressed in the RMP:   
a.  The MAH should provide a more detailed plan on interaction studies of the 
JanssenCovid-19 vaccine with  blood components within  30 days 
b.  The MAH should provide a more detailed plan on how additional studies can provide 
further data regarding potential effects of the i) Ad26 vector; ii)  the spike protein on 
the coagulation system, including potential triggers of platelet activation a nd 
subsequent thrombotic effects. Gaining further clinical data from the rare cases of 
thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia is endorsed prior to  design of 
meaningful hypothesis-driven in vitro or in  vivo non-clinical studies. This plan should 
be provided within  90 days. A thorough literature review should be included, and this 
should also be taken into account for the expected plan for further research in this 
topic. 
All parts of the  RMP should be updated to reflect the new safety concerns. Furth ermore, the  PhV-plan 
should be updated with revised / new proposals for additional data collection including studies. It is 
anticipated that  a revised RMP is submitted  within  another procedure, within a relatively short time 
frame. This needs further confirmation with  the EMA.   
3.2.9.  Adopted PRAC Recommendation 
The PRAC has reviewed additional evidence concerning thromboembolic events  in association with 
Covid-19 Janssen vaccine, with  particular focus on cases with  combination of thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia. Recently, this condition  has been named ‘thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia 
syndrome (TTS)’. The updated review has included data ascertained from newly identified 
spontaneously reported cases both in EudraVigilance and other sources, clinical, pre-clinical and 
literature data and data from the marketing authorisation holder (MAH).   
Based on review of the available evidence the PRAC considers that  further updates to  the product 
information are required including  information to outline that  patients who are diagnosed with 
thrombocytopenia within  three weeks of vaccination should be actively investigated for signs of 
thrombosis. Similarly, updates have been included in order to reflect that patients  who present with 
thrombosis within  3 weeks of vaccination should be evaluated for thrombocytopenia. Furthermore, the 
condition should be renamed ‘thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia syndrome’.  
The PIL should be updated to include information at the  start of section 4,  concer ning the signs and 
symptoms of thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 145/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The PRAC has also reviewed preclinical and literature data concerning possible pathophysiological  
mechanisms. A plan concerning additional pharmacovigilance activities, aimed to  further elucidate 
potential pathophysiological mechanism(s) for TTS,  and for quantification of the magnitude of the risk, 
should be submitted. 
Following  further consideration, the text regarding TTS which  was added to section 6 of the package 
leaflet following the extraordinary PRAC meeting on 20  April 2021,  should be removed . The reason is 
that  it is not considered to  fulfil the purpose of the information to be added to  that section of the 
package leaflet, as per the requirements specified in QRD template 10.2.  
The PRAC recommends that the MAH  for Covid-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
should submit a variation to amend the product  information as described below ( new text 
underlined/text to be removed with strikethrough): 
Section 4.4  
Thrombocytopenia and coagulation disorders Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
A combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in  some cases accompanied by bleeding, has been 
observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe cases 
of venous thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein 
thrombosis as well as arterial thrombosis concomitant with  thrombocytopenia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the  first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in women 
under 60 years of age.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate med ical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain,  leg pain, leg swelling,  or persistent 
abdominal pain following  vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological symptoms including 
severe or persistent headaches, seizures, mental status change or blurred vision after vaccination, or 
who experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond the site of vaccination after a few days, should seek 
prompt medical attention.   
Thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia requires specialised clinical management. 
Healthcare professionals should consult  applicable guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., 
haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to  diagnose and treat this condition.  
Individuals diagnosed with  thrombocytopenia within  3 weeks after vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine 
Janssen should be actively investigated for signs of thrombosis. Similarly, individuals who present with 
thrombosis within  3 weeks of vaccination should be evaluated for thrombocytopenia. 
Package  leaflet  
Section 2  
[…] 
Blood disorders 
A combination of blood clots and low levels of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to clot) in  the blood has 
been observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 146/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cases with  blood clots, including in unusual locations such as the brain, liver, bowel and spleen, in 
some cases in combination with  bleeding. These cases occurred within  the first  three weeks following 
vaccination and occurred mostly in women below 60 years of age. Fatal outcome has been reported. 
Seek immediate medical attention  if you experience severe or persistent headaches , seizures (fits), 
mental status change or blurred vision, unexplained skin bruising beyond the site of vaccination which 
appear a few days after vaccination,  pinpoint round spots beyond the  site of vaccination, develop 
shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain, leg swelling,  or persistent abdominal pain. Inform your health 
care provider that  you have recently received COVID -19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Section 4 
Like all vaccines, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen can cause side effects, although  not everybody gets them. 
Most  of the  side effects occur in the 1 or 2 days of getting  the vaccination.   
Get medical attention  immediately if within  3  weeks of vaccination you get  any of the following 
symptoms: 
-  experience a severe or persistent headache, blurred vision, mental status  changes or seizures 
(fits) 
-  develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain or persistent abdominal pain  
-  notice unusual skin bruising or pinpoint  round spots beyond the site of vaccination 
Get  urgent medical attention  if you get symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. ….  …// 
Section 6  
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:  
[…] 
•  Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism 
and/or thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed  to seek immediate medical 
attention  if they develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain,  leg pain, leg 
swelling, or persistent abdominal pain following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with 
neurological symptoms including severe or persistent headaches, seizures, mental status 
change or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (petechia)  beyond 
the site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.  Thrombosis in 
combination with  thrombocytopenia requires specialised clinical management. Healthcare 
professionals should consult applicable guidance and/or consult  spec ialists (e.g., 
haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to  diagnose and treat this condition.  
Risk management  plan (RMP) 
The RMP needs to be revised to reflect the  outcome of this  signal review.  This should be undertaken in 
steps.  
For the first step, the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) should submit  a variation within  14 days . 
In this variation the safety specification should be updated as follows: 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 147/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Add “Thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia syndrome ” to the  list of safety concerns as an 
important identified  risk. All parts of the  RMP should be updated accordingly.  
•  Add “Thrombocytopenia” to the list  of safety concerns as an important  potential risk. All parts 
of the RMP should be updated accordingly. 
Furthermore, in ongoing clinical studies, the following should be addressed:  
1.  The MAH should ensure that all reported thrombotic  events with  thrombocytopenia and/or 
bleeding events are investigated by exploring within  planned/ongoing studies an in -depth 
exploration of platelet function  as needed, as well as investigation of the patient’s 
immunological background. The following tests should be considered but not limited  to:  
a.  Measurements of platelet levels, D-dimer and fibrinogen levels; 
b.  Additional laboratory testing:  Complete blood count (haemoglobin levels, white blood 
cells with complete formula, thrombocyte levels), haemolysis parameters (schistocytes, 
reticulocytes, haptoglobin  levels), ADAMTS13 activity, PTT, TCA, fibrinogen, D -dimers, 
lupus anti-coagulant  research (including cardiolipin antibodies IgG and IgM) and anti 
B2GPI antibodies IgG and IgM; 
c.  In case of low levels of platelets: titration  of anti-PF4  antibodies; 
d.  Additional search for anti-platelets antibodies (with  specific target to  identify) and dee p 
exploration of platelet function; 
e.  Investigation of patient “immune background” (e.g. anti-nuclear factor, ANCA, 
rheumatoid factor, HLA  B27, hypersensitivity markers).  
f.  COVID-19 testing,  including PCR and serology: with regard to relevant cases, 
information on the type of testing performed, the timing  of such testing,  and the site 
from which  the PCR swabs were taken should also be provided. 
g.  Other analysis to consider include:  
i.  Factor V Leiden; Factor II (prothrombin) variant; Inflammatory markers:  TNFα, 
IL-1, IL-4,  IL-6, IL-10, IL-13; 
ii.  Platelet activation markers: sCD40L, soluble glycoproteins, degranulation 
markers (PF4, vWF, P-selectin, annexin V); 
iii.  Cell adhesion molecules; 
iv.  Immunology: C3, C4, antinuclear IgG, anti-double stranded DNA IgG, anti-
Smith IgG, anti-SSA IgG, anti-SSB IgG, anti-Jo1 IgG, anti-MPO  IgG, anti-PR3 
IgG, anti-glomerular basement membrane IgG; 
v.  Complement activation markers: Complement Complex C5b-9, C5a; 
vi.  Adeno virus serology; 
vii.  Tissue type (genetics) 
viii.  Serology to be considered: Cytomegalovirus (IgG and IgM,)  Epstein-Barr virus 
(IgG and IgM), 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 148/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finally, in ongoing /planned post-authorisation observational studies, the  following should be 
addressed:  
The protocols of existing post-authorisation observational studies (i.e. VAC31518COV4003, 
VAC31518COV4001) should be modified to  include the  AESIs of concern, as described below.  The 
Brighton Collaboration Interim Case Definition for Thrombosis with  Thrombocytopenia Syndrom e 
‘Embolic and Thrombotic 
events, vessel type 
unspecified and mixed arterial 
and venous’ 
Basal ganglia stroke2 
Brain stem infarction2 
Brain stem stroke2 
Cerebellar infarction2 
Cerebral infarction2 
Cerebral ischaemia 
Cerebral microembolism 
Cerebral microinfarction2 
Cerebral thrombosis 
Cerebral vascular occlusion 
Cerebrovascular  accident2 
Choroidal infarction2 
Coronary bypass  thrombosis3 
Disseminated intravascular 
coagulation1 
Embolic cerebellar infarction2 
Embolic cerebral infarction2 
Embolic stroke2 
Haemorrhagic adrenal infarction 
Haemorrhagic cerebral infarction 
Haemorrhagic infarction2 
Haemorrhagic stroke2 
Haemorrhagic transformation 
stroke2 
Heparin-induced 
thrombocytopenia 
Microembolism 
Pituitary infarction2 
Post procedural  stroke2 
Spinal stroke2 
Stroke in evolution2 
Strokectomy2 
Thrombotic stroke2 
should also be considered for case finding algorithms.   
List:  Preferred Terms for embolic and thrombotic events 
‘Embolic and thrombotic 
events, arterial’ 
‘Embolic and thrombotic 
events, venous’ 
Budd-Chiari syndrome 
Cavernous  sinus thrombosis 
Cerebral venous sinus  thrombosis 
Cerebral venous thrombosis2 
Deep vein thrombosis2 
Embolism venous2 
Hepatic vein occlusion 
Hepatic vein thrombosis 
Iliac vein occlusion 
Inferior vena caval occlusion 
Jugular vein occlusion 
Jugular vein thrombosis 
Mesenteric  vein thrombosis 
Mesenteric  venous occlusion 
Ophthalmic vein thrombosis 
Pelvic venous thrombosis 
Portal vein occlusion 
Portal vein thrombosis 
Pulmonary embolism2 
Pulmonary infarction 
Pulmonary microemboli 
Pulmonary thrombosis 
Pulmonary vein occlusion 
Pulmonary venous thrombosis 
Renal vein occlusion 
Renal vein thrombosis 
Retinal vein occlusion 
Retinal vein thrombosis 
Splenic vein occlusion 
Splenic vein thrombosis 
Superior sagittal sinus thrombosis 
Superior vena cava occlusion 
Transverse  sinus thrombosis 
Venous thrombosis 
Acute aortic syndrome3 
Acute myocardial infarction3 
Arterial thrombosis 
Cerebellar artery occlusion 
Cerebellar artery thrombosis 
Cerebral artery embolism 
Cerebral artery occlusion 
Cerebral artery thrombosis 
Coronary artery embolism3 
Coronary artery occlusion3 
Coronary artery reocclusion3 
Coronary artery thrombosis3 
Coronary vascular  graft occlusion3 
Embolism arterial 
Femoral artery embolism 
Hepatic artery embolism 
Hepatic artery occlusion 
Hepatic artery thrombosis 
Iliac artery embolism 
Iliac artery occlusion 
Ischaemic cerebral infarction2 
Ischaemic stroke2 
Mesenteric  arterial occlusion 
Mesenteric  arteriosclerosis 
Mesenteric  artery embolism 
Mesenteric  artery thrombosis 
Myocardial infarction3 
Myocardial necrosis3 
Papillary muscle infarction3 
Peripheral artery occlusion 
Peripheral artery thrombosis 
Peripheral embolism 
Post procedural  myocardial 
infarction3 
Pulmonary artery occlusion 
Pulmonary artery thrombosis 
Renal artery occlusion 
Renal artery thrombosis 
Renal embolism 
Retinal artery embolism 
Retinal artery occlusion 
Retinal artery thrombosis 
Silent myocardial infarction3 
Spinal artery embolism 
Spinal artery thrombosis 
Splenic artery thrombosis 
Splenic embolism 
Subclavian artery embolism 
Subclavian artery occlusion 
Subclavian artery thrombosis 
Thromboembolectomy 
Thrombotic microangiopathy 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 149/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic 
purpura 
Transient ischaemic attack 
Vertebral artery occlusion 
Vertebral artery thrombosis 
Codes: 1 – PT already listed for AESI ‘Vaccine associated-disease’; 2 – PT already listed for AESI ‘Stroke and other cerebrovascular events, 
Venous thromboembolism’; 3 – PT already listed for AESI ‘Myocardial infarction’, no code = selection by PRAC RAP expert 
As a second step,  another variation should be submitted  within  90 days in  order to further update the 
pharmacovigilance plan (part III) of the  RMP. The variation should present a plan aimed at further 
characterisation of the important  identified risk of “thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome ”. This 
should include proposals of new studies. The following  should be addressed:  
Ascertainment and evaluation of further clinical data from rare cases of TTS will be a critical part in 
designing proposals for hypothesis-driven in vitro or in vivo non-clinical  studies. Furthermore, a 
thorough literature review should also be taken into account for the proposals of further mechanistic 
work. These pieces of background material should be submitted  within  the variation. Based on that, 
the MAH  should present:  
•  A detailed plan on interaction studies of the Janssen Covid-19 vaccine with blood components 
(e.g. erythrocytes, thrombocytes, leucocytes etc.,  coagulation factors, natural IgM antibodies) 
both in  the presence and absence of pre -existing immunity to Ad26.CoV2-S. 
•  A detailed plan on how additional studies can provide further data regarding potential  effects of 
the i) Ad26 vector; ii) the spike protein on the coagulation system, including potential  triggers 
of platelet activation and subsequent thrombotic effec ts.  
• 
The MAH should address the feasibility of conducting pharmacogenomic analyses in cases of 
TTS, as part of further evaluation of possible underlying biological mechanisms behind TTS 
following use of the Covid-19 vaccine Janssen.  
4.  References 
The MAH  has included the  following references in their response on 22 nd of April 2021: 
CDC (2021).  COVID Data Tracker. Available at: https://covid.cdc.gov/covid -data-tracker/#datatracker-
home. Accessed: 21 April 2021. 
Greinacher A, Thiele T, Warkentin TE et al. A prothrombotic thrombocytopenic disorder resembling 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia following coronavirus-19 vaccination. Research Square. 2021. doi: 
https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-362354/v1. 
Pai M, Grill A, Ivers N et al. Vaccine-induced prothrombotic immune thrombocytopenia (VIPIT) 
following AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccination. Science Briefs of the Ontario COVID -19 Science Advisory 
Table. 2021;1(17).  doi: https://doi.org/10.47326/ocsat.2021.02.17.1.0. 
References (non-clinical) 
Baker AT, Mundy  RM, Davies JA et al. Human  adenovirus type 26  uses sialic acid –bearing glycans as a 
primary cell entry receptor. Sci Adv. 2019, 5: eaax3567. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 150/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cichon G, Schmidt HH,  Benhidjen T et al. Intravenous administration of recombinant adenoviruses 
causes thrombocytopenia, anemia and erythroblastocsis in rabbits. J Gene Med. 1999,  1:360.  
Gupalo E,  Buriachkovskaia L, Othman M. Human  platelets express CAR with  localization at the  sites of 
intercellular interaction. Virol J. 2011,  8, 456.   
Kasirer-Friede A, Kahn ML,  Shattil SJ. Platelet integrins and immunoreceptors. Review Immunol Rev. 
2007,  218:247. 
Othman M,  Labelle A, Mazzetti  I et al. Adenovirus-induced thrombocytopenia: the role of von 
Willebrand factor and P-selectin in mediating accelerated platelet clearance. Blood. 2007,  109:2832.  
Seya T, Ballard LL, Bora NS et al. Distribution of membrane cofactor protein of complement on human 
peripheral blood cells. An altered form is found on granulocytes. Eur J Immunol. 1988,  8:1289.  
Stone D, Liu  Y, Shayakhmetov D et al. Adenovirus -platelet interaction in blood causes virus 
sequestration to the reticuloendothelial system of the liver.  J Virol. 2007,  81:4866. 
Varnavski AN, Calcedo R, Bove M  et al. Evaluation of toxicity from high-dose systemic administration of 
recombinant adenovirus vector in vector-naive and pre-immunized mice. Gene Ther. 2005,  12:427. 
Wolins N,  Lozier J, T.L.  Eggerman TL et al. Intravenous administration of replication‐incompetent 
adenovirus to rhesus monkeys induces thrombocytopenia by increasing in vivo platelet clearance. Br J 
of Haematol. 2003, 123:903. 
Additional references provided by EMA 
Proposed Brighton Collaboration process for developing a standard case definition  of new clinical 
syndrome X, as applied to thrombosis with  thrombocytopenia syndrome. 2021.  Available from: 
https://brightoncollaboration.us/thrombosis-with-thrombocytopenia-syndrome-interim-case-definition/   
British Society of Haematology. Guidance produced from the expert haematology panel (EHP) focussed 
on Covid-19 vaccine induced thrombosis & thrombocytopenia syndrome (Version: 1.7). 2021.  Available 
from: https://b-s-h.org.uk/media/19590/guidance-version-17-on-mngmt-of-vitt-20210420.pdf 
Arepally G.M., Padmanabhan A. Heparin-Induced Thrombocytopenia: A Focus on Thrombosis. 
Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2021  Jan;41(1):141-152.  doi: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.120.315445. 
Brodard J., Kremer Hovinga J., Fontana P., Studt  J., Gruel Y. & Greinacher A. 2021.  COVID ‐19 patients 
often show high‐titer non‐platelet‐activating anti‐PF4/heparin  IgG antibodies. J  Thromb & Haemost. 
DOI: 10.1111/jth.15262. 
Greinacher A., Selleng K., Mayerle J., Palankar, R., Wesche J., Reiche S., Aebischer A, Warkentin T, 
Münchhoff  M, Hellmuth  J., Keppler O, Duerschmied D., Lother A., Rieg Siegbert Gawaz M.,  Mueller K. & 
Scheer C., Napp M. &  Hahnenkamp K. & Thiele T. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein and Anti-Platelet 
Factor 4 Antibody Responses Induced by COVID -19 Disease and ChAdOx1 nCov-19 vaccination. 2021. 
(Pre-print). doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-404769/v1. 
Greinacher A, Thiele T, Warkentin TE, Weisser K, Kyrle  PA, Eichinger S. Thrombotic Thrombocytopenia 
after ChAdOx1 nCov-19 Vaccination. 2021.  N Engl  J Med. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2104840.  Epub ahead 
of print. PMID: 33835769. 
Jaax, M.  E., Krauel, K., Marschall, T., Brandt, S., Gansler, J., Fürll,  B., Appel, B., Fis cher, S., Block, S., 
Helm, C. A., Müller, S., Preissner, K. T., & Greinacher, A. (2013).  Complex formation with  nucleic acids 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 151/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and aptamers alters the antigenic properties of platelet factor 4. Blood, 122(2),  272–281. 
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2013-01-478966 
Jin Y, Yu X, Qu Z, Zhang A, Xing YL, Jiang L,  Shang L and Wang Y: Adenovirus type 3 induces platelet 
activation in vitro. 2014.  Mol Med Rep 9: 370-374. 
Kekomäki R. Platelet function  and immune response. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2003 Dec;25 Suppl 
1:S19-23.  doi: 10.1097/00043426-200312001-00005. 
Krauel K., Pötschke C., Weber C., Kessler W., Fürll B., Ittermann T., Maier S., Hammerschmidt S., 
Bröker B., Greinacher A.; Platelet factor 4 binds to  bacteria, inducing antibodies cross -reacting with  the 
major antigen in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Blood 2011;  117 (4): 1370–1378.  doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2010-08-301424 
Krauel K, Weber C, Brandt S, Zähringer U, Mamat U,  Greinacher A, Hammerschmidt S. Platelet factor 4 
binding to  lipid A of Gram-negative bacteria exposes PF4/heparin-like epitopes. Blood. 2012 Oct 
18;120(16):3345-52.  doi: 10.1182/blood-2012-06-434985.  Epub 2012 Aug 31. 
Muir K-L,  Kallam A, Koepsell SA, Gundabolu K. Thrombotic thrombocytopenia after Ad26.COV2.S 
vaccination. N Engl J Med.  DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc2105869. 
Nguyen TH, Medvedev N,  Delcea M, Greinacher A. Anti-platelet  factor 4/polyanion antibodies mediate a 
new mechanism of autoimmunity.  Nat Commun. 2017  May 22;8:14945.  doi: 10.1038/ncomms14945.  
Oldenburg J, Klamroth R, Langer F,  Albisetti M, von Auer C, Ay C, Korte W, Scharf RE, Pötzsch B, 
Greinacher A. Diagnosis and Management of Vaccine -Related Thrombosis following AstraZeneca 
COVID-19 Vaccination: Guidance Statement from the GTH. Hamostaseologie. 2021  Apr 1.  doi: 
10.1055/a-1469-7481.  Epub  ahead of print. 
Othman M.,  Labelle A., Mazzetti  I., Hisham S. Elbatarny, Lillicrap D. Adenovirus -induced 
thrombocytopenia: the  role of von Willebrand factor and P -selectin in mediating accelerated platelet 
clearance. 2007. Blood: 109 (7):2832-2839.  doi: doi.org/10.1182/blood-2006-06-032524. 
Perdomo, J., Leung, H.H.L.,  Ahmadi, Z. et al. Neutrophil  activation and NETosis are the major drivers 
of thrombosis in  heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. 2019.Nat  Commun 10, 1322. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-09160-7 
Pishko AM,  Andrews RK, Gardiner EE, Lefler DS, Cuker A. Soluble glycoprotein VI is a predictor of 
major bleeding in patients with  suspected heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Blood Adv. 
2020;4(18):4327-4332.  doi:10.1182/bloodadvances.2020002861 
Qiao J,  Al-Tamimi M,  Baker RI, Andrews RK, Gardiner EE. The platelet Fc receptor, FcγRIIa. Immunol 
Rev. 2015  Nov;268(1):241-52.  doi: 10.1111/imr.12370. 
Raddi N, Vigant F,  Wagner-Ballon O, Giraudier S, Custers J, Hemmi S, Benihoud K. Pseudotyping 
Serotype 5 Adenovirus with  the Fiber from Other Serotypes Uncovers a Key Role of the Fiber Protein in 
Adenovirus 5-Induced Thrombocytopenia. Hum Gene Ther. 2016 Feb;27(2):193-201.  doi: 
10.1089/hum.2015.154. 
Schultz NH,  Sørvoll IH, Michelsen AE, Munthe  LA, Lund-Johansen F,  Ahlen MT,  Wiedmann M, Aamodt 
AH, Skattør TH, Tjønnfjord GE, Holme PA. Thrombosis and Thrombocytopenia after ChAdOx1 nCoV -19 
Vaccination. 2021. N  Engl J Med. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2104882.  Epub ahead of print. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 152/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scully M.,  Singh D., Lown R., Poles A., Solomon T., Levi M.,  Goldblatt D., Kotoucek P., Thomas W., 
Lester W. Pathologic Antibodies to  Platelet Factor 4 after ChAdOx1 nCoV -19 Vaccination. 2021.  N Engl 
J Med. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2105385 
Shimony N,  Elkin G, Kolodkin-Gal D, Krasny L,  Urieli-Shoval S, Haviv YS. Analysis of adenoviral 
attachment  to human platelets. Virol J. 2009;6:25.  Published 2009 Feb 17.  doi:10.1186/1743 -422X-6-
25 
Taquet M.,  Husain M.,  Geddes J., Lucian S., Harrison P. Cerebral venous thrombosis: a retrospective 
cohort study of 513,284  confirmed Covid-19 cases and a comparison of 489, 871  people receiving a 
Covid-19 mRNA vaccine. DOI: 10.17605/OSF.IO/H2MT7.  Available from: https://osf.io/h2mt7/  
Ziang H, Wang Z, Serra D, Frank MM,  Amalfitano A. Recombinant adenovirus vectors activate the 
alternative complement pathway, leading to the binding  of human complement protein C3 independent 
of anti-ad antibodies. Mol Ther. 2004 Dec;10(6):1140-2.  DOI: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2004.08.015. 
5.  Annex  
DHPC agreed at the extraordinary PRAC on 20 April 2021.  
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: link between the vaccine and the 
occurrence of thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia 
Dear Healthcare Professional, 
Janssen-Cilag International NV in  agreement with the  European Medicines Agency and the <National 
Competent Authority > would like to inform you of the following: 
Summary 
•  A combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in some cases 
accompanied by bleeding, has been observed very rarely following 
vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. A causal relationship with the 
vaccine is considered plausible.  
•  These cases occurred within the first three weeks following vaccination, and 
mostly in women under 60 years of age. 
•  No specific risk factors have been identified at this stage. 
•  Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of 
thromboembolism and/or thrombocytopenia. 
•  Those being vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical 
attention if they develop symptoms of thromboembolism and, or 
thrombocytopenia following vaccination. 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 153/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia requires specialised 
clinical management.  Consult applicable guidance and/or specialists (e.g., 
haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to diagnose and treat this 
condition. 
Background on the safety  concern 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen suspension for injection is indicated for active immunisation to prevent 
COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2, in individuals 18 years of age and older.  
A combination of thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, in  some cases accompanied by bleeding, has been 
observed very rarely following vaccination with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. This includes severe cases 
of venous thrombosis at unusual sites such as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, splanchnic vein 
thrombosis, as well as arterial thrombosis concomitant with  thrombocytopenia. Fatal outcome has been 
reported. These cases occurred within  the first three weeks following vaccination, and mostly in women 
under 60 years of age.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of thr omboembolism and/or 
thrombocytopenia. Those vaccinated should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention  if they 
develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, or persistent abdominal pain 
following vaccination. Additionally, anyone with  neurological symptoms including  severe or persistent 
headaches or blurred vision after vaccination, or who experiences skin bruising (petechia) beyond the 
site of vaccination after a few days, should seek prompt medical attention.   
In several of the cases with  concomitant thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, testing  for anti -platelet 
factor (PF) 4-antibodies was positive or strongly positive. Extensive work -up for other potential 
mechanisms that  could cause thrombosis and/or thrombocytopenia has b een provided for a minority of 
these cases; however, no other abnormalities have been found that are considered to explain the 
observed events. However, the  exact pathophysiological mechanism for the occurrence of these 
thrombotic events is not defined yet. No  specific risk factors have been identified  at this stage. 
Thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia requires specialised clinical management. 
Healthcare professionals should consult  applicable guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g., 
haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to  diagnose and treat this condition.  
The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee, PRAC, one of EMA’s scientific committees, has 
performed a thorough  investigation including a review of case reports of blood clots and  
thrombocytopenia in  individuals who received the vaccine and has also evaluated an observed to 
expected analysis.  
Based on the current evidence, the PRAC has recommended an update to the  product information to 
reflect the  current knowledge of this safety  issue. This comprises an update of the  warning section, as 
well as inclusion of thrombosis in combination with  thrombocytopenia as an adverse reaction with  a 
frequency of very rare.  
Call for reporting  
Healthcare professionals should report any suspected adverse reactions associated with  the use of 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in accordance with the national  spontaneous reporting system <include the 
details (e.g. name, postal address, fax number, website address) on how to  access the national 
spontaneous reporting system>.   
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 154/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This product is subject to additional monitoring. This will  allow quick identification  of new safety 
information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions.  
Company contact point 
<Contact point  details for access to further information, including  relevant website address(es), 
telephone numbers and a postal address (company contact point  in the concerned EU MS should be 
included, respectively)> 
Yours Faithfully 
Medical Director of Janssen-Cilag International B.V. 
Communication plan 
Communication Plan  for Direct Healthcare  Professional Communication  
DHPC  COMMUNICATION  PLAN 
Medicinal 
product(s)/active 
substance(s) 
Marketing 
authorisation 
holder(s) 
Safety  concern and 
purpose of the 
communication 
DHPC  recipients 
Member  States  where 
the DHPC  will be 
distributed 
Timetable  
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen suspension for injection (Ad26.COV2-S 
[recombinant]) 
Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Information on the  risk of thrombosis in  combination with 
thrombocytopenia. 
General practitioners, specialists in internal medicine, haematology, 
emergency medicine and vaccination centres. 
The target group should be further defined at national level, in 
agreement with  the respective national competent authority. 
All EU member states where COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is authorised. 
Date 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 155/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DHPC  and communication plan (in English) agreed by  PRAC 
DHPC  and communication plan (in English) agreed by CHMP 
Submission of translated DHPCs  to the national  competent 
authorities for review 
Tue 20/04/2021   
Wed 21/04/2021 
Thu 22/04/2021 
Agreement of translations by national  competent authorities 
Fri 23/04/2021 
Dissemination of DHPC 
Mon 26/04/2021 
Signal assessment report on Embolic and Thrombotic events (SMQ) with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]) 
EMA/PRAC/227875/2021  
Page 156/156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
