SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) develop uraemic anaemia as one of the most obvious signs of 
the  disease.  This  symptom  is  caused  by  impeded  renal  production  of  erythropoietin  (EPO).  EPO  is 
produced  primarily  in  the  kidneys  and  stimulates  red  blood  cell  counts  (RBC)  production  by 
promoting  survival,  proliferation  and  differentiation  of  erythroid  progenitors  in  the  bone  marrow. 
Epoetin-containing medicinal products are currently indicated for several conditions besides anaemia 
in patients with chronic renal failure, namely, chemotherapy induced anaemia in cancer patients, for 
increasing the yield of autologous blood from patients in a pre-donation programme, and for reducing 
exposure  to  allogenic  blood  transfusions  in  adult  non-iron-deficient  patients  prior  to  major  elective 
orthopaedic surgery. 
The  application  for  SB309  has  been  submitted  as  a  “similar  biological  medicinal  product”  under 
Article 10(4) of directive 2001/83/EC (as amended), hereafter referred to as biosimilar. 
SB309 has been developed as a biosimilar product referring to epoetin alfa, authorised in the EU, e.g. 
in the UK under the brand name  Eprex (Janssen-Cilag Ltd.) and in Germany under the name Erypo 
(Ortho Biotech, a division of Janssen-Cilag GmbH).  
The claimed indications were: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Treatment  of  anaemia  associated  with  chronic  renal  failure  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients  on 
haemodialysis and adult patients on peritoneal dialysis.  
Treatment of severe anaemia of renal origin accompanied by clinical symptoms in adult patients 
with renal insufficiency not yet undergoing dialysis.  
Treatment  of  anaemia  and  reduction  of  transfusion  requirements  in  adult  patients  receiving 
chemotherapy  for  solid  tumours,  malignant  lymphoma  or  multiple  myeloma,  and  at  risk  of 
transfusion  as  assessed  by  the  patient's  general  status  (e.g.  cardiovascular  status,  pre-existing 
anaemia at the start of chemotherapy).  
SB309  can  be  used  to  increase  the  yield  of  autologous  blood  from  patients  in  a  predonation 
programme.  Its  use  in  this  indication  must  be  balanced  against  the  reported  risk  of 
thromboembolic  events.  Treatment  should  only  be  given  to  patients  with  moderate  anaemia 
(haemoglobin (Hb) 10-13 g/dl [6.2-8.1 mmol/l], no iron deficiency), if blood saving procedures 
are  not  available  or  insufficient  when  the  scheduled  major  elective  surgery  requires  a  large 
volume of blood (4 or more units of blood for females or 5 or more units for males).  
indications  using  exclusively 
The  claimed  indications  initially  included  also  reduction  of  allogeneic  blood  transfusions  in  adult 
non-iron  deficient  patients  prior  to  major  elective  orthopaedic  surgery.  However,  during  the  CHMP 
scientific  assessment  it  became  evident  that  efficacy  and  safety  of  Epoetin  zeta  have  not  been 
demonstrated  for  the  SC  route  of  administration  in  immunocompetent  patients.  Therefore,  the 
applicant  withdrew  all 
in 
immunocompetent patients. The remainder of this report focuses on the IV route of administration and 
the SC route in chemotherapy-related anaemia. 
About the product 
Human  erythropoietin  is  a  single  chain,  monomeric,  glycosylated  polypeptide  of  165  amino  acids. 
Erythropoietin for clinical use is produced by recombinant DNA technology using mammalian cells as 
expression  system.  All  epoetins  in  clinical  use  have  an  amino  acid  sequence  similar  to  endogenous 
erythropoietin but differ in the glycosylation pattern. Glycosylation influences pharmacokinetics and 
may affect efficacy and safety, particularly immunogenicity. 
the  SC  route  of  administration 
The  active  substance  in  SB309  (Epoetin  zeta)  is  a  recombinant  human  erythropoietin  (rhEPO)  of 
identical primary structure produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. The molecular weight of 
the  glycosylated  protein  is  30.6  kDa  according  to  the  Ph.  Eur.  monograph,  40%  of  which  are 
1/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carbohydrate structures. The oligosaccharide chains are subject to posttranslational modifications and 
display heterogeneity to a certain extent.  
To support the claim that SB309 is biosimilar to the reference medicinal product Erypo with regard to 
quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  applicant  has  submitted  a  comparability  exercise  for  a  similar 
biological  medicinal  product  versus  the  reference  medicinal  product.  The  main  clinical  data  for  the 
application submitted by the applicant consists of two pharmacokinetic (PK) trials comparing the PK 
profiles of SB309 and Erypo after single dose administration, and  two phase III trials (one correction 
phase  study  and  one  maintenance  phase  study)  comparing  efficacy  and  safety  of  intravenously  (IV) 
administered  SB309  and  Erypo  in  patients  with  renal  anaemia.  Two  safety  trials  are  still  ongoing 
(interim  data  have  been  provided).  The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP 
(Procedures No. EMEA/H/SA/469/1/2004/III, 2004 and EMEA/H/SA/469/1/FU/1/2005/II, 2005). 
2.  Quality aspects 
Product description 
SB309 [epoetin zeta (INN)] solution for injection in pre-filled syringes contains recombinant human 
erythropoietin  (rhu-EPO,  epoetin)  as  drug  substance  and  water  for  injection,  sodium  monohydrogen 
phosphate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate, sodium chloride, calcium chloride, polysorbate 20, glycine, 
leucine,  isoleucine,  threonine,  glutamic  acid  and  phenylalanine  as  excipients.  The  syringes  (Type I 
glass) are provided with a fixed steel needle and a plunger stopper with PTFE coating for intravenous 
(IV) or subcutaneous (SC) injection. Eleven different quantitative sizes of pre-filled syringes of SB309 
will be available containing defined amounts of epoetin of 1,000 IU up to 40,000 IU, respectively. 
The  drug  product  is  presented  as  a  solution  for  injection  in  pre-filled  syringes  in  the  following 
strengths: 3,333 IU/ml (presentation of 0.3, 0.6 and 0.9 ml), 10,000 IU/ml (presentations of 0.4, 0.5, 
0.6, 0.8 and 1 ml) and 40,000 IU/ml (presentations of 0.5, 0.75 and 1 ml), with all strengths exhibiting 
the same qualitative composition. 
Drug Substance  
Manufacture 
The drug substance [epoetin zeta (INN)] is manufactured and released by Norbitec GmbH, D-25436 
Uetersen,  Germany.  After  a  series  of  sub  cultivations,  the  cells  are  seeded  into  the  production 
fermenter. The production is based on a fed-batch process. 
The  drug  substance  is  recovered  from  the  fermentation  broth  by  a  conventional  protein  purification 
process  comprising  orthogonal  chromatography  steps  and  a  viral  filtration  step.  The  manufacturing 
steps  are  monitored  by  process  controls  that  include  operational  parameters,  acceptance  criteria  and 
specifications. 
The Master Cell Bank (MCB) was established using foetal calf serum (FCS) from a certified source. 
The Working Cell Bank (WCB) was established without the use of materials from human or animal 
origin. The cultivation and all subsequent manufacturing steps are also performed without the use of 
materials from human or animal origin. The cell culture medium is protein-free and does not contain 
insulin or antibiotics. The selected cell line was analysed with regard to sequence of epoetin cDNA, 
growth potential, viability, productivity, genetic stability and viral safety.  
Process validation data demonstrate that the process steps from thawing the WCB vial, to harvesting 
the production bioreactor and purification are consistent. All parameters for upstream process (USP) 
and downstream process (DSP) were maintained within the defined ranges.  
2/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adventitious Agents 
The  viral  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  Epoetin  zeta  is  assured.  This  is  confirmed  by  the 
experimental  finding  that  the  CHO  cell  substrates  (MCB,  WCB  and  Post  Production  Cells  (PPC)) 
show no biological evidence of any productive viral infection. The inherent risk of viral contamination 
associated with animal-sourced materials (FCS, porcine trypsin) can be excluded, since the cell culture 
process occurs in serum- and protein-free  medium. The data obtained from the comprehensive virus 
validation studies demonstrate that the purification procedure possesses a reproducibly high and robust 
capability for virus clearance.  
Characterisation 
An extensive characterisation programme has been conducted for the drug substance with respect to 
the protein backbone as well as the carbohydrate moieties. 
An orthogonal set of state-of-the-art analytical methods was established to elucidate structural features 
of  the  epoetin  zeta  protein  backbone.  The  primary  structure  of  epoetin  zeta  was  confirmed  using 
peptide  mapping  using  different  enzymes  and  mass  spectroscopy.  Epoetin  zeta  has  been  shown  to 
contain  an  intact  protein  structure  with  correctly  linked  disulfide  bonds,  integrity  of  the  C-and  N-
termini,  and  minimal  degradation  caused  by  oxidation  and  deamidation.  Secondary  structure 
determination  using  spectroscopic  measurements  revealed  that  the  alfa  helix  represents  the 
predominant structure element conforming to the four-helical bundle topology model as predicted for 
erythropoietin in the literature.  
The  carbohydrate  moieties  in  epoetin  zeta  were  characterised  using  a  complementary  panel  of 
analytical  methods  in  order  to  reveal  or  to  exclude  unusual  glycan  structures  with  a  potentially 
negative impact on the performance of epoetin zeta. The total glycan pool released from the protein 
backbone  was  subjected  to  fractionation  by  column  chromatography  and  if  necessary  further  sub-
fractionation  was  performed  using  a  different  stationary  phase  in  order  to  yield  sub-fractions  of 
sufficient purity. HPAEC-PAD was used as a major analytical tool to classify the glycans with respect 
to sialylation and antennarity on each level of sub-fractionation. Further analysis of the sub-fractions 
by mass spectroscopy enabled the ability to identify and/or exclude unique or unusual structures.  
Using  NMR-techniques,  glycan  structures  were  elucidated  with  respect  to  their  isomeric  nature. 
Positions  of  N-acetyllactosamine  repeats  on  antennae,  lack  of  sialylation  of  antennae,  position  of 
fucosylation (in order to identify/exclude certain Lewis-motifs) and presence of O-acetylated groups 
were confirmed. O-glycans were mainly characterised by mass spectrometrical methods of the de-N-
glycosylated protein. 
Applying  this  analytical  strategy,  the  carbohydrate  content  of  epoetin  zeta  was  confirmed  to  be 
essentially free of unusual, potentially immunogenic structures. 
Specification 
Appropriate specifications have been set for analysis of the active substance at release and at the end 
of shelf life. 
Stability 
The claimed shelf-life of the active substance is supported by batch data. 
Comparability Exercise for Active Substance 
Epoetin  zeta  was  compared  to  epoetin  alfa,  the  drug  substance  of  the  selected  reference  product 
Eprex/Erypo  (Janssen-Cilag  GmbH).  For  the  comparability  exercise  the  same  set  of  tests  and 
analytical procedures were applied to the drug substance and the drug product. 
In accordance with the Guideline on Similar Biological Medicinal Products containing Biotechnology-
derived Proteins as Active Substance: Quality Issues (EMEA/CHMP/BWP/49348/2005), the applicant 
3/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
isolated  active  substance  from  the  reference  medicinal  product  in  order  to  perform  the  comparative 
analysis at the level of the active substances. Isolation was performed by RP-HPLC.  
It  was  demonstrated  that  the  isolated  active  substance  used  in  the  comparability  exercise  is 
representative of the active substance present in the reference medicinal product. 
In  the  comparability  study  focused  on  the  protein  backbone,  the  data  obtained  demonstrated 
equivalence between the two epoetin products. 
With respect to the glycan moieties, the overall range of structures was found to be comparable. Even 
upon sub-fractionation of glycans of both products a very similar profile with respect to antennarity 
and  sialylation  was  revealed.  However,  the  amount  of  glycoforms  without  an  O-glycan  chain  was 
slightly  higher  for  epoetin  zeta  as  compared  to  epoetin  alfa.  On  the  other  hand,  the  amounts  of 
undesired variants of sialic acid, N-glycolyl neuraminic acid and O-acetyl neuraminic acid were higher 
in the reference product as compared to epoetin zeta. 
Comparison of the purity and in-vivo bioactivity did not reveal any remarkable difference. 
In terms of quality, the drug substance comparability between SB309 and Eprex/Erypo is considered 
demonstrated. 
Drug Product  
The  drug  product  SB309  is  provided  as  a  liquid  ready-to-use  solution  in  a  single-dose  prefilled 
syringe. It is formulated based on epoetin zeta as active ingredient at concentrations of 3,333 IU/mL, 
10,000  IU/mL  and  40,000  IU/mL.  Eleven  dosage  strengths  are  provided  from  1,000  IU  to  40,000 
IU/syringe dependent of different filling volumes (0.3 to 1.0 mL).  
Product Development and Manufacture 
The  drug  product  contains  recombinant  human  erythropoietin  (rhu-EPO,  epoetin)  as  drug  substance 
and  water  for  injection,  sodium  monohydrogen  phosphate,  sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate,  sodium 
chloride, calcium chloride, polysorbate 20, glycine, leucine, isoleucine, threonine, glutamic acid and 
phenylalanine as excipients. The dosage strengths only differ with respect to drug substance amount. 
The concentrations of the excipients are identical for all strengths.  
The manufacturing process is a conventional process beginning with the dissolution of the excipients 
followed by addition of the drug substance bulk solution. After mixing, the bulk drug product solution 
is 0.22 µm filtered, sterile filtered and aseptically filled into syringes. The drug product manufacturing 
process is validated.  
Product Specification 
The  drug  product  release  specification  includes  tests  for  identity,  purity  and  content,  as  well  as 
pharmaceutical and microbiological tests. 
Batch analysis 
The batches selected for the batch analysis were considered to be acceptable. 
Stability of the Product 
A shelf life of 24 months for the dosage strengths 1,000 IU, 2,000 IU and 3,000 IU and 18 months for 
the  dosage  strengths  4,000  IU,  5,000  IU,  6,000  IU,  8,000  IU,  10,000  IU,  20,000  IU,  30,000  IU  and 
40,000 IU is demonstrated when stored at 2-8 °C. 
4/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparability Exercise for Drug Product  
SB309 drug product batches were compared to Eprex/Erypo drug product batches. 
All batches were found to be similar with regard to protein backbone as well as carbohydrate moieties 
and hence the overall comparability of SB309 and Eprex/Erypo is considered demonstrated. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In  general,  the  dossier  for  SB309  is  of  good  quality.  The  two  major  concerns  as  well  as  the  minor 
deficiencies  that  had  been  identified  and  summarised  in  the  Day  120  LoQ,  have  been  appropriately 
addressed by the applicant.  
Very  extensive,  high  quality  studies  were  performed  to  compare  SB309  to  the  reference  product 
Eprex/Erypo at both the drug substance and the drug product level. Likewise the characterisation of 
the  drug  substance  and  the  comparability  studies  to  compare  drug  substance  from  different  scale 
manufacturing process is considered high quality with an extreme level of detail applying state-of-the-
art analytical methods. 
Comparability  studies  confirmed  that  the  protein  backbone  of  epoetin  zeta  is  comparable  to  epoetin 
alfa.  Regarding  the  overall  range  of  glycan  structures  a  high  level  of  similarity  between  SB309  and 
Eprex/Erypo  was  demonstrated.  Minor  differences  were  noted  at  the  level  of  particular  structural 
elements. These reflect the foreseen variability of glycoproteins derived from different manufacturing 
processes. 
The identified minor differences in glycostructures are not of concern and particularly the lower levels 
of undesired glycostructures such as N-glycolyl neuraminic acids and O-acetylated neuraminic acids 
in SB309 as compared to the reference product are not considered to pose any safety issues. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Toxicity  studies  were  in  compliance  with  Good  Laboratory  Practice  with  the  exception  that 
bioanalytical  and  toxicokinetic  elements  of  these  two  studies  did  not  include  independent  Quality 
Assurance inspection or audit of reports. In mid 2006, CHMP issued guidance1 on the development of 
similar  medicinal  products  containing  recombinant  erythropoietin  and  the  non-clinical  testing  of 
epoetin  zeta  is  therefore  judged  against  this  guidance,  which  requires  that  the  applicant  shall 
demonstrate the ‘comparability of the product applied for to a reference product authorised in the EU’.  
The applicant sought scientific advice from the CHMP in early 2004, including on the necessity of any 
preclinical  studies.    The  dossier  that  was  submitted  includes  the  recommended  studies.    Testing 
comprised comparative in vitro and in vivo pharmacodynamics and comparative repeated dose toxicity 
studies in rats and dogs.  Local tolerance by a number of routes was also tested.  In accordance with 
CHMP  guidance,  no  studies  on  safety  pharmacology,  reproductive  toxicology,  mutagenicity  or 
carcinogenicity were conducted. 
1  Annex to guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as 
active substance:  non-clinical and clinical issues.  Guidance on similar medicinal products containing 
recombinant erythropoietins.   (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/94526/2005).   
5/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
Pharmacodynamic  biosimilarity  of  two  batches  of  SB309  and  Erypo  was  tested  in  three  in-vitro 
studies  measuring  receptor  binding,  proliferation  and  second  messenger  activation  in  cultured  cells, 
and in one in-vivo study (normocythaemic mouse assay according to Ph. Eur.). There was a different 
slope of the displacement curve and a different EC50 value for SB309 as compared to Erypo in the 
receptor binding, study # 176.  A possible reason could be that SB309 and the reference product Erypo 
were  not  compared  directly  in  the  same  experiments  but  investigated  in  consecutive  experimental 
setups..  There  were  initial  problems  (e.g.  high  variability  of  the  results)  with  the  functional  in-vitro 
assays in study #177 intended to measure burst- and colony forming activity in erythrocyte precursors. 
The  Applicant  repeated  these  experiments  with  fresh  cell  material  and  thereby  obtained  reliable 
results.  The  effects  of  Silapo  and  Erypo  were  highly  similar.    In  the  third  in-vitro  study,  direct 
comparison of SB309 and Erypo was performed as desirable at the level of receptor binding as well as 
in functional assays although the relevance of the results was somewhat limited by the low number of 
replicates. 
An in vivo comparison of the potency of SB309 and of Erypo over the dosage range 3.3 to 90 IU/ml in 
normocythaemic mice was undertaken using methodology described in the European Pharmacopoeia 
(01/2005:    1316  corrected,  method  B).    EPO-BRP#2  provided  by  the  European  Directorate  for  the 
Quality  of  Medicines,  European  Pharmacopoeia  Commission  was  also  tested.    The  assay  quantifies 
reticulocytes by fluorescence activated cell sorting of blood drawn four days after one subcutaneous 
administration  to  female  B6D2F1  mice.    This  method  allows  establishment  of  a  dose-response 
relationship  for  each  test  material  and  includes  a  check  of  parallelism  of  regressions  for  a  valid 
quantitative comparison.  The relative potency should be between 0.80 and 1.25.   
Results are presented in the table below, where REF refers to results with Erypo, test 1 refers to one 
batch of SB309 (0050410/10000), Test 2 refers to a different batch of SB309 (500-M2) and BRP-#2 
refers to the standard provided by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines, European 
Pharmacopoeia Commission.   
Table 1 Relative potency of SB309 and Erypo in the normocythaemic mouse assay 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No studies were submitted. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No studies were submitted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No studies were performed. Toxicokinetic parameters were obtained within the frame of the repeated-
dose toxicology studies in rats and dogs, respectively (see Repeat dose toxicity for the methods and 
results).  
6/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
No studies were submitted. 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Two studies of 3 months duration are reported:  one is in the rat and used subcutaneous administration 
and  one  is  in  the  dog  and  used  intravenous  administration.    Both  routes  are  used  clinically.    Two 
batches of each product were used in each study. 
Rat 13 week study by the subcutaneous route: 
In this study, rats were allocated to treatment groups as shown in the table below.  Additional rats were 
allocated  for  use  in  additional  haematology  screens  and  for  erythropoietin  and  anti-erythropoietin 
antibody  determinations.    Blood  was  drawn  prior  to  dosing,  on  day  5  at  13  time  points  from  2.5 
minutes to 24 hours after dosing, and again at the end of weeks 5, 9, 13 and 17.  All rats were dosed by 
subcutaneous injection three times a week with SB309 at one of two dose levels, or with Erypo at one 
dose level, or control (saline), for 13 weeks. 
Table 2: 
Design of the rat 13 week toxicity study 
There  was  significant  mortality  in  this  study,  such  that  dosing  at  2500  IU/kg  was  stopped  18  days 
earlier than planned in female rats.  3 of 15 male rats and 7 of 15 female rats treated with higher dose 
SB309 died prematurely in this study.  With the same dose of Erypo, 5 out of 15 male and 7 out of 15 
female rats died prematurely.  There was additionally one death in a male rat treated with 500 IU/kg 
SB309.    All  these  deaths  were  attributed  to  exaggerated  pharmacology  with  cause  of  death  being 
moderate  to  marked  congestion  with  dilatation  of  vessels,  haemorrhage,  stasis  of  blood  and 
development  of  thrombi.    The  frequency  and  causes  of  deaths  are  not  indicative  of  a  difference 
between the products.  One control female rat was also found dead during the study. 
There were no differences between higher dose SB309 and Erypo with regard to body weight, body 
weight  gain,  food  and  drinking  water  consumption,  biochemical  parameters,  ophthalmological  or 
auditory examinations. 
Comparing  the  two  products,  SB309  caused  a  slight  reduction  in  urinary  specific  gravity  and  a 
significant increase in urine volume in males at week 6, in comparison with Erypo. 
Haematological parameters of haemoglobin, red blood cell count, reticulocyte count and haematocrit 
consistently  changed  in  the  expected  manner  and  in  comparison  to  controls,  each  product  caused  a 
statistically  significant  rise.    Comparing  values  between  the  two  products,  there  was,  in  general,  no 
7/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difference. At 6 weeks, there was a statistically significant difference in values for reticulocytes and 
red  blood  cells  of  male  rats  treated  with  either  high  dose  SB309  or  with  Erypo.  Histopathological 
examination of organs showed an increase in the number of haematopoietic cells compared to controls 
in spleen and bone marrow, as would be expected.  Associated lesions in the thymus, kidney, stomach, 
heart and adrenal glands are considered to be related effects and were of mild to marked congestion 
and haemorrhage with the vessels dilated and filled with erythrocytes.   The number of rats per group 
that exhibit increased haemopoietic cells in spleen and in bone marrow, and other effects was usually 
greater with SB309 than with Erypo.   
Toxicokinetics 
Erythropoietin was analysed in serum taken from rats and dogs in the 13 week toxicology studies.  A 
validated  double  sandwich  ELISA  method  was  used  to  quantify  erythropoietin.  Antibodies  to 
erythropoietin were assessed by a radio-immune-precipitation assay.  The assay uses radiolabelled 125I-
recombinant human erythropoietin to bind circulating antibodies against human erythropoietin in the 
serum of treated subjects.  The bound complex is precipitated by protein G and the radioactivity in the 
precipitate  is  measured  by  a  gamma  counter  to  allow  quantification  of  antibodies  to  erythropoietin.  
Suitability of the assay was shown for human serum for specificity, stability of samples stored at -20ºC 
for  over  9  months  and  for  three  freeze-thaw  cycles.    The  applicability  of  the  assay  for  rat  and  dog 
serum  was  shown  by  a  comparative  test  with  human  and  rat  serum  samples  spiked  with  rabbit 
antiserum  against  recombinant  human  erythropoietin.    Neutralising  potential  of  antibodies  to 
erythropoietin was assessed using stimulation of an erythroleukaemic cell line by erythropoietin.  The 
presence  of  antibodies  that  neutralise  erythropoietin  in  tested  samples  is  indicated  by  inhibition  of 
erythropoietin-mediated cellular growth by test serum. 
The exposure achieved in this study during Day 5 is presented in the two tables below, with values 
from 3 rats per sex per time point.  In these tables, Test 1 and Test 2 refer to SB309 and Reference 
indicates Erypo.  Mean Cmax and AUC and serum half-life were minimally lower in the 2500 IU/kg 
SB309 than in the Erypo group, but there was no statistically significant difference between SB309 
and Erypo at the same nominal dose of 2500 IU/kg.  The difference in exposure between the lower and 
higher dose of SB309 was not proportionate with the dose increase. 
Tables 3-4: 
Toxicokinetic results from rats - 13 week toxicity study  
Data assessed by means of Erypo standard 
Data assessed by means of SB309 standard 
8/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antigenicity  
4 rats treated with SB309 developed antibodies to erythropoietin, with the first positive test in week 4, 
and 4 treated with Erypo were antibody positive or had borderline titres (i.e. close to the limit of 
detection), with the first positive test in week 3.   
In conclusion, this study revealed no meaningful difference in the safety profile with respect to 
pharmacodynamic effects, antigenicity or toxicity between SB309 and Erypo. 
Dog 13 week study by the intravenous route 
In this study, two male and two female dogs were allocated to groups as shown in the table below and 
were  injected  intravenously  once  every  day  for  13  weeks  with  SB309  at  one  of  two  dose  levels,  or 
Erypo at one dose level, or control.  Half the dogs were killed for post-mortem examinations and half 
entered  a  recovery  (i.e.  dose  free)  period  of  5  weeks,  and  were  then  killed  for  post-mortem 
examinations.  The study thus ran for 18 weeks.  After day 10, the dose administered was reduced as 
shown in the table:  this was a planned change, and the first 10 days of dosing is described as a loading 
dose.  Electrocardiography was performed on Day 1, and in weeks 6 and 13 before administration of 
drug  and  at  5  minutes  after  administration,  for  1  minute.    Urine  was  collected  over  a  3  hour  period 
following  a  dose  of  50  ml  tap  water,  for  urinalysis,  before  and  at  weeks  6,  13  and  18  of  the  study:  
ophthalmological examinations were done at the same timepoints.  All dogs in Groups 1, 3 and 4 were 
examined histologically, with the spleens and bone marrow of dogs in Group 2 also examined.  Blood 
samples  were  drawn  at  weekly  intervals  for  haematology,  coagulation  and  clinical  biochemistry.  
Blood  samples  were  also  drawn  at  appropriate  timepoints  for  toxicokinetics of  erythropoietin  (a  full 
kinetic profile was planned from blood samples taken on study day 5, with individual samples taken 
for trough levels at intervals) and for antibody determinations, which were drawn at weekly intervals 
throughout the entire period of the study.   
9/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: 
Design of the dog 13 week toxicity study, by intravenous dose 
For  the  purposes  of  this  assessment,  the  primary  comparison  of  interest  is  that  of  Group  3  versus 
Group 4, i.e. SB309 versus the same dose of Erypo. 
There was no difference between Groups 3 and 4 with respect to local tolerance, behaviour, external 
appearance on clinical observation, faeces, mortality, body weight and body weight changes, food and 
drinking  water  consumption,  electrocardiographic  measures,  blood  pressure,  haematological 
parameters,  clinical  biochemistry,  urinalysis,  ophthalmology,  organ  weights  or  macroscopic  or 
microscopic examinations.  The examinations of spleen and bone marrow tissues did not suggest any 
difference between the same dose of SB309 and Erypo. 
In  comparison  with  the  control  group,  each  of  SB309  and  Erypo  produced  effects  characteristic  of 
erythropoietins.    Marked  haematopoietic  activation  of  bone  marrow  was  observed  with  substantial, 
sustained  increases  in  reticulocyte  counts,  red  blood  cells,  haemoglobin  and  haematocrit  throughout 
the dosing period with tendency to revert to normal during the recovery period.  There were sporadic 
instances where one product was associated with a significant change compared to control where the 
other was not (e.g. reticulocyte counts at 10, 11 and 12 weeks in males and on days 10, 12 and weeks 
7, 9 and 10 in females); however, such instances are not toxicologically meaningful.   
Histopathologically, increase in haematopoietic cells in spleen and in bone marrow was observed. 
Toxicokinetics 
Data  derived  from  blood  samples  drawn  on  Day  5  of  the  study  are  tabulated  below.    Group  3  and 
Group 4 are in the columns headed Test 2 and Reference, respectively.  There was a slight tendency 
for  increased  AUC-inf  and  Cmax  with  Erypo  compared  to  the  same  dose  of  SB309,  although  there 
was no difference in the half life and suggests these differences may be due to a higher specific protein 
content of the final drug product batches. 
10/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: 
Toxicokinetics from the dog 13 week toxicity study 
The trough serum concentrations measured throughout the study are presented in tabular form below.  
As for the kinetics with the rat, analysis was done twice, once by reference to a SB309 standard and 
once by reference to an Erypo standard.  The tabulated values for serum erythropoietin concentration 
indicate  no  change  on  repeated  dosing,  but  do  indicate  lower  concentrations  in  males  compared  to 
females  (subset  of  data  not  shown).    These  data  are  presented  to  show  that  the  very  large  standard 
deviations confound any assessment of difference.  In addition, in weeks 5 and 9, values for SB309 are 
skewed by data from one female dog having very substantially higher exposure (i.e. approximately 10-
fold  the  mean  of  the  other  dogs)  to  erythropoietin.   This dog  developed  antibodies  to  erythropoietin 
from week 11, consistent with a decline in the measured serum concentration of erythropoietin at week 
13. 
Table 7: 
Toxicokinetics from the dog 13 week toxicity study 
Trough serum concentration (mIU/ml) 
SB309 
405.227  ±  634.545 
283.797  ±  380.968 
174.033  ±  174.160 
Erypo standard 
Week 5 
Week 9 
Week 13 
SB309 standard 
432.393  ±  685.203 
Week 5 
296.212  ±  397.026 
Week 9 
181.696  ±  180.012 
Week 13 
Figures show mean ± standard deviation of n = 8 dogs.  Same dose of erythropoietin administered. 
199.096  ±  187.284 
155.977  ±  125.793 
113.323  ±  75.598 
207.147  ±  192.833 
162.570  ±  129.893 
117.185  ±  77.806 
Erypo 
Antigenicity 
Data on the frequency of anti-erythropoietin antibody positivity are shown below.  These data are the 
number of samples that tested positive and, as one dog will test positive on a number of occasions, this 
way of presenting the data may exaggerate the numbers concerned. 
11/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: 
Antigenicity data from the dog 13 week toxicity study 
One dog out of eight treated with Erypo developed antibodies to erythropoietin, which were detected 
from  the  third  week.    In  contrast,  a  total  of  eight  dogs  out  of  16  treated  with  SB309  developed 
antibodies to erythropoietin which were detected from the fourth week:  these eight comprised three 
given the lower dose and five given the higher dose regime.  No neutralising potential was identified 
in  the  serum  samples  that  tested  positive  for  antibodies.    In  addition  to  these  findings,  borderline 
positive tests were found in 18 dogs, in all groups including the control and on day -2, before any dogs 
were dosed. The different rate of antibody formation is not considered relevant for clinical use since 
human epoetin is a foreign protein for dogs. The low potential of both, SB309 and Erypo, to induce 
neutralising antibodies is considered reassuring (see discussion below). 
Genotoxicity 
No studies were submitted. 
Carcinogenicity 
No studies were submitted. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
No studies were submitted. 
Local tolerance  
Local  tolerance  was  tested  within  the  frame  of  the  repeated-dose  studies  insofar  the  injection  sites 
were  examined.  Local  tolerance  was  also  assessed  in  the  rabbit  using  intravenous,  subcutaneous, 
intramuscular, paravenous and intra-arterial injection of the 40,000 IU/syringe strength product.  No 
concerns were identified. 
Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity was assessed in the general toxicity studies and is discussed above.  Other toxicity studies 
(dependence, metabolites, impurities) were not submitted. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant claimed that because the product does not contain any novel components, and contains a 
protein that is similar to the endogenous human protein and to that contained in an existing medicinal 
product,  availability  of  the  product  will  not pose  any  identifiable  extra  risk  to  the  environment.  The 
applicant  also  claimed  that  CHMP  guidance  specifically  exempts  proteins  from  such  assessment,  as 
they are unlikely to result in significant risk to the environment. 
12/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Biosimilarity in terms of non-clinical pharmacodynamics could be convincingly shown in the in-vivo 
assays. There were some problems with the in-vitro assays, but in the light of the unequivocal outcome 
of the in-vivo assays this is a minor concern. Although in-vivo assays are characterised by a rather low 
accuracy of the results due to inter-individual differences of the animals, it could be demonstrated by 
using a large number (1024) of animals that mean, standard deviation and slope of the dose-response 
are nearly superimposable for SB309 and Erypo. This indicates that the observed statistical variation 
was due to inter-individual differences of the animals and not to different actions of SB309 and Erypo.  
than 
that  which  can  be  attributed 
With the exception of antigenicity in the dog which is discussed further below, there were no signs of 
toxicity  other 
to  major  erythropoietic  stimulus  (i.e. 
suprapharmacological  effects)  and  to  compensatory  changes.  In  comparison  with  the  control  group, 
each  of  SB309  and  Erypo  produced  effects  characteristic  of  erythropoietins.  Whereas  there  were  no 
differences  in  type  of  toxicity  between  SB309  and  Erypo  in  the  dog,  there  were  differences  in  the 
magnitude  of  erythropoietic  effect  in  the  rat.  This  could  be  consistent  with  a  slightly  more  potent 
erythropoietic  effect  of  SB309  compared  to  Erypo  (the  applicant  suggested  this  could  be  due  to  a 
greater amount of protein per International Unit of erythropoietin in its product compared to Erypo).  
However, these findings could also indicate a modest difference in biological response due to natural 
variation.  In  conclusion,  in  terms  of  toxicology,  the  data  did  not  indicate  a  meaningful  difference 
between the two products. 
Antigenicity of SB309 in direct comparison with Erypo was extensively tested. The absolute rate of 
antibody  formation  was  rather  high,  but  this  does  not  necessarily  indicate  a  high  antigenicity  in 
humans  since  human  epoetin  is  a  foreign  protein  for  animals.  There  was,  however,  a  marked 
difference  in  antigenicity  between  the  two  products,  although  antibodies  were  non-neutralising  and 
were  not  associated  with  any  deterioration  in  condition  of  the  dogs.  Antibodies  to  erythropoietin 
occurred more frequently in dogs treated with SB309 than dogs treated with Erypo. 
To  date  there  is  no  hint  that  SB309  will  be  more  antigenic  than  Erypo,  at  least  in  respect  to  the 
clinically  relevant  neutralising  antibodies.  In  dogs  no  neutralising  antibodies  were  found  in  the 
antibody  assay,  and  pharmacodynamics  data  (e.g.  red  blood  cell  count)  also  gave  no  hint  for 
neutralising antibodies. Neutralising antibodies were only detected in rats, and there was a very good 
agreement  between  the  rate  of  antibody  formation  in  the  satellite  groups  (antibodies  determined  by 
RIP) and the main groups (neutralising antibodies identified by a sharp decrease in RBCs), confirming 
the reliability of the antibody assay, at least for the (clinically more relevant) neutralising antibodies. 
Local tolerance was tested within the frame of the repeated-dose studies and in a separate rabbit study. 
The  comparator  Erypo  was  not  included  in  this  study  but  this  is  considered  acceptable  because  this 
study aimed to detect unexpected local toxicity of SB309. The results did not raise concerns.  
No  secondary  pharmacodynamics,  safety  pharmacology,  and  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions 
studies  have been  submitted,  in  line  with  CHMP  guidance.  In  accordance  with  CHMP  guidance,  no 
studies  on  reproductive 
toxicology,  mutagenicity  or  carcinogenicity  were  conducted.  The 
environmental risk assessment is satisfactory. 
As a conclusion for the preclinical review, the applicant’s data indicate that SB309 and the reference 
product  Erypo  could be  distinguished  from  each  other  in  certain in  vitro pharmacology  tests,  and  in 
some  aspects,  but  not  all,  in  in  vivo  tests.    The  differences  which  were  identified  are  probably  not 
toxicologically meaningful. 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction  
The pharmacokinetic properties of SB309 and the reference product Erypo were compared in two PK 
studies  in  healthy  volunteers  after  single  dose  SC  and  IV  administration.  Two  clinical  studies  were 
conducted to compare the therapeutic equivalence of IV administered SB309 and the reference product 
Erypo in patients with anaemia due to chronic renal failure. The studies included one correction phase 
13/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study  to  determine  response  dynamics  and  dosing  during  the  anaemia  correction  phase,  and  one 
maintenance  phase  study.  An  additional  maintenance  treatment  follow-up  study  was  performed  to 
obtain long-term safety data for SB309. One uncontrolled safety trial was conducted in cancer patients 
with chemotherapy-induced anaemia. 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried 
out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The applicant has submitted two PK studies in healthy volunteers to demonstrate similar PK profiles 
for  SB309  and  Erypo.  Study  411-54-05-05-0000  was  a  two-period  crossover  study  in  24  healthy 
volunteers comparing the PK profiles of the test product SB309 and the reference product Erypo after 
a single IV dose. Study 411-54-03-09-0001 was a three-period crossover trial in 48 healthy volunteers 
comparing the PK profiles of SB309 and Erypo after a single SC dose as well as the PK profiles after a 
single dose of SC and IV administered SB309. The design and endpoints of both studies were in line 
with  the  recommendations  in  the  Guidance  on  similar  medicinal  products  containing  recombinant 
erythropoietins.  
Epoetin plasma concentrations were analysed using a validated modified double sandwich ELISA. 
No  equivalence  margins  were  pre-defined.  However,  post-hoc  an  acceptance  range  of  80-125%  for 
AUC  and  70-143%  for  Cmax  was  used  by  the  applicant  who  also  referred  to  the  Scientific  Advice 
given  by  CHMP  in  April  2004  that  stated  that  the  concept  of  “comparability”  cannot  use 
bioequivalence but that similar PK profiles of SB309 and the reference product would strengthen the 
choice  of  reference  in  the  clinical  trials.  The  advice  concluded  that  for  this  purpose  descriptive 
statistics will suffice. 
The  primary  endpoint  was  AUC0-tlast  and  the  secondary  endpoints  were  Cmax,  t1/2,  Vd,  CLtot  and 
MRT.  
The  study  results  (primary  analysis)  suggested  subavailability  of  SB309  compared  to  Erypo  (1  not 
included  in  the  90%  CI). The  90%  CIs  for  both  AUC0-tlast  and Cmax  for  the  SC  comparison  were 
contained  in  the  post  hoc  defined  acceptance  ranges  but  only  the  90%  CI  for  Cmax  for  the  IV 
comparison (see Tables X and Y below). According to the certificates of analysis of the test and the 
reference drug, a significant difference was present between the batches of both products regarding the 
total protein content: 71.77 µg/ml protein for the test drug and 83.62 µg/ml protein for the reference 
drug  in  study  411-54-05-05-0000;  78.45  µg/ml  protein  in  the  test  drug  and  83.62  µg/ml  in  the 
reference  drug  in  study  411-54-03-09-0001.  The  concentration  of  epoetin  in  the  final  product  is  not 
based  on  protein  content  but  is  adjusted  by  means  of  a  bioassay  which  measures  the  biological 
activity. Due to this reason, a correction of epoetin serum concentrations based on the protein content 
of the used batches was performed in both studies. This adjustment for protein content was justified on 
the basis that the assay used for the determination of erythropoietin concentrations in human plasma is 
based  on  binding  of  a  specific  antibody  to  the  erythropoietin  protein  backbone,  and  therefore 
corresponds  to  total  protein  content.  The  90%  CIs  for  the  corrected  intra-individual  ratios 
(testIV/referenceIV)  of  AUC0-tlast  and  Cmax  were  well  within  the  post-hoc  defined  equivalence 
margins (see Tables X and Y). T1/2 values were similar being 5.8 ± 0.6 h for test and 6.1 ± 1.2 h for 
reference in study 411-54-05-05-0000 and 24.7 ± 8.0 h for test and 23.0 ± 6.6 h for reference in study 
411-54-03-09-0001.  
14/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table X:  90% confidence intervals (ANOVA-log) for the comparison (test/reference) of primary 
endpoints in the PK study 411-54-05-05-0000 with and without dose correction 
Trial 411-54-05-05-0000: test i.v. vs. reference i.v. 
Without dose correction 
Variable 
AUC0-tlast  
Cmax 
AUC0-tlast  
Cmax 
point estimator 
90% confidence limits 
0.80 
0.89 
With dose correction 
0.93 
1.04 
0.76 – 0.84 
0.82 – 0.97 
0.89 – 0.97 
0.95 – 1.13 
Table Y:  90% confidence intervals (ANOVA-log) for the comparison (test/reference) of primary 
endpoints in the PK study 411-54-03-09-0001 with and without dose correction 
Trial 411-54-03-09-0001: test s.c. vs. reference s.c. 
Without dose correction 
Variable 
AUC0-tlast  
Cmax 
AUC0-tlast  
Cmax 
point estimator 
90% confidence limits 
0.93 
0.82 
With dose correction 
1.00 
0.88 
0.88 – 0.99 
0.75 – 0.90 
0.94 – 1.05 
0.80 – 0.96 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacokinetics 
The  submitted  PK  studies  were  performed  in  accordance  with  the  Guidance  on  similar  medicinal 
products containing recombinant erythropoietins, although this guideline had not been in place at the 
time of clinical development.  
Based  on  corrected  epoetin  serum  concentrations  similar  PK  profiles  of  SB309  and  Erypo  could  be 
demonstrated for the IV route as well as the SC route of administration. For the uncorrected values, 
similar  PK  profiles  could  be  demonstrated  only  for  SC  administration.  In  principle,  correction  for 
protein content is considered acceptable but, in a strict sense, only if pre-specified. However, similar 
PK  profiles  alone  do  not  allow  the  conclusion  of  similar  efficacy  and  safety  of  two  biotechnology-
derived  medicinal  products.  Comparative  phase  III  studies  are  required  for  epoetin-containing 
products claiming to be similar to another one already on the market. 
The bioavailability of erythropoietin is known to be much lower if administered SC compared to IV 
and  is  approximately  20%.  As  expected,  the  bioavailability  of  SC  administered  epoetin  was 
considerably  lower  than  that  of  the  IV  administered  drug  in  Study  411-54-03-09-0001  but  the 
comparison IV vs. SC is not relevant for a “biosimilar” application. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No specific pharmacodynamic studies  were conducted with SB309. The pharmacodynamics (PD) of 
erythropoietin is known and described in the literature. 
Mechanism of action 
Recombinant  human  erythropoietin  (epoetin)  promotes  red  blood  cell  production  by  stimulating  the 
division and differentiation of committed progenitors in the bone marrow the same way endogenous 
erythropoietin does. 
15/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary pharmacology 
After  IV  administration  of  epoetin,  the  typical  pharmacodynamic  profile  shows  an  increase  in 
reticulocyte  count  within  the  first  2  weeks  followed  by  an  increase  in  the  red  blood  cell  level  as 
manifested by hematocrit or Hb determinations within 2 to 6 weeks. After single SC administration an 
increase in reticulocyte count within 3-4 days with a peak around day 8-11(13) and a return to baseline 
by day 22 has been described (R. Ramakrishan et al. J Clin Pharmacol, 2004; W.K. Cheung et al. Clin 
Pharmacol Therapeutics, 1998). A linear relationship between reticulocyte AUC and epoetin exposure 
has  been  described  for  single  doses  up  to  1800  IU/kg  (W.K.  Cheung  et  al.,  Clin  Pharmacol 
Therapeutics, 1998). There is high interindividual variability in the reticulocyte response to epoetin.  
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacodynamics 
The Guideline on similar medicinal products containing recombinant erythropoietins suggests that a 
PD study be performed investigating reticulocyte count as the most relevant pharmacodynamic marker 
for assessment of the activity of epoetin. As stated above, this guidance document was not available at 
the time the studies were performed and there was still discussion on the requirements for biosimilar 
applications.  Although  PD  studies  should  be  part  of  the  development  programme  for  a  biosimilar 
epoetin,  the  lack  of  such  studies  is  not  critical  since  demonstration  of  similar  efficacy  and  safety 
between the new and the reference product is required anyway. 
Clinical efficacy 
Two  clinical  studies  were  conducted  to  compare  the  therapeutic  equivalence  of  IV  administered 
SB309  and  the  reference  product  Erypo  in  patients  with  anaemia  due  to  chronic  renal  failure.  The 
studies  were  one  correction  phase  study  (411-54-04-05-0000  [study  04-05])  to  determine  response 
dynamics and dosing during the anaemia correction phase, and one maintenance phase study (411-54-
04-04-0000 [study 04-04]). An additional maintenance treatment follow-up study (411-54-04-14-0000 
[study 04-14]) was performed to obtain long-term safety data for SB309. This study is presented in the 
Clinical Safety section below. 
Dose response studies 
No studies were submitted. 
Main studies  
Correction Phase Study 
Study  411-54-04-05-0000  [study  04-05]  was  performed  as  a  randomised,  double-blind,  verum-
controlled,  multiple-dose,  parallel-group,  multicentre  design  phase  III  trial  in  haemodialysis  patients 
with renal anaemia in patients with or without epoetin treatment to prove therapeutic equivalence of 
IV administered SB309 to the reference product (Erypro). 
Methods 
Study Participants 
Male or female haemodialysis patients, aged 18-75 years with a baseline haemoglobin concentration 
below 9 g/dl in spite of optimal iron supplementation with or without pre-treatment with epoetin were 
eligible. Patients presenting (among others) any of the following criteria could not be included in the 
trial:  contraindication  for  the  test  drug;  relative  or  absolute  iron  deficiency  at  the  end  of  the 
supplementation period; refractory anaemia with excess blasts in transformation; documented bleeding 
disorders; platelet count below 100x109/l; known, clinically manifested deficiency of folic acid and/or 
vitamin  B12  (irrespective  whether  currently  treated  or  not);    known  bone  marrow  fibrosis  (osteitis 
fibrosa  cystica);  clinically  relevant  changes  of  dialysis  regimen  and/or  dialyzer  during  the  trial; 
clinically relevant increase of CRP (higher than 10 mg/dl) for at least 2 weeks;  acute bleeding and/or 
16/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recently  documented  hemorrhage;  known  lack  of  response  to  epoetin;    known  hypersensitivity  to 
epoetin (for patients who have received epoetin before); epoetin dosages > 3x200 IU/kg/week;  known 
hypersensitivity to albumin; detectable anti-epoetin antibodies; uncontrolled hypertension;  myocardial 
infarction,  stroke,  severe/unstable  angina,  coronary/peripheral  artery  bypass  graft,    decompensated 
congestive heart failure (NYHA class III – IV), cerebrovascular incident or transient ischemic attack,  
pulmonary embolism,  deep vein thrombosis, or other thromboembolic event within the 6 months prior 
to  double-blind  study  drug  administration;  known  epilepsy;  liver  cirrhosis  with  clinical  evidence  of 
complications  (portal  hypertension,  splenomegaly,  ascites);  patients  with  confirmed  aluminum 
intoxication; confirmed, clinically relevant hemolysis and/or occult blood loss;  presence of malignant 
tumors; clinically relevant malnutrition;  pregnancy or lactation period in female patients. 
Treatments 
SB309 or Erypo, 1000 IU or 2000 IU epoetin, were administered IV, three times per week (if a dose < 
3 x 1000 IU was needed the epoetin dosage could be less than three times a week). 
The period of work-up of anaemia lasted up to 6 weeks. The subsequent double-blind treatment period 
lasted 24 weeks. Thereafter, all patients could continue treatment with the test product as a part of an 
open, follow-up safety trial. 
Objectives 
To  prove  the  therapeutic  equivalence  of  SB309  to  the  reference  product  (Erypo)  in  achieving 
correction  of  haemoglobin  concentration  in  anaemic patients  with  end-stage  renal  failure  on  chronic 
haemodialysis. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoints were: 
-  Mean weekly dosage of epoetin per kg body weight during the last four weeks of treatment 
-  Mean haemoglobin levels during the last four weeks of treatment 
Secondary efficacy endpoints included: 
- 
Proportion  of  patients  with  treatment  success  (haemoglobin  level  ≥  11.0  g/dl  for  2  consecutive 
weeks without any blood transfusion within the preceding 3 months) 
Increase of haemoglobin over time 
Proportion of patients with maintenance success (maintenance of haemoglobin levels of 11 ± 1 
g/dl for at least 4 consecutive weeks) 
- 
- 
-  Mean weekly dosage of epoetin per kg body weight during each interval of 4 weeks of treatment 
-  Mean haemoglobin levels during each interval of 4 weeks of treatment 
-  Mean haemocrit levels during each interval of 4 weeks of treatment 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Proportion of patients with an increase of haemoglobin of more than 1 g/dl for 4 weeks 
Percentage of haemoglobin measurements above 10 g/dl 
Percentage of haemocrit measurements above 30% 
Proportion of patients with blood transfusions 
Sample size 
A sample size of 204 patients per group was calculated to achieve a power of more than 80% for proof 
of  equivalence  for  both  primary  endpoints.  The  total  number  of  patients  to  be  randomized  was 
estimated to be 600 since a drop-out rate of approximately 30-35% was expected.  
Randomisation 
At the beginning of the double-blind phase of the trial, each patient was randomly assigned to one of 
the study drugs (1:1).  
17/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blinding (masking) 
Blinding was achieved using the double-dummy technique. Neither the investigators nor the monitors 
were  informed about the identity of the trial medication and also had no copy of the randomization 
code. The investigators and patients monitors had no access to the code before the end of the trial. The 
investigator  was  allowed  to  unblind  the  individual  treatment  if  appropriate  in  an  emergency  or  on 
request by an authority or IEC/IRB. 
Statistical methods 
The  95%  confidence  intervals  were  calculated  for  the  treatment  differences  between  both  treatment 
groups in the primary endpoints 
The confidence interval was compared with pre-defined acceptance ranges: 
- 
- 
±14 IU/kg/week for mean weekly dosage 
±1 g/dl for haemoglobin 
Statistical analysis was performed on three patient populations: 
- 
full data set for efficacy, including all patients who started therapy and had any follow-up 
information regarding the primary endpoint, and did not violate major entry criteria; 
full data set for safety, including all patients who started therapy irrespective of the information 
regarding the primary endpoint; 
per protocol (PP) population; excluding cases of major protocol violations. 
The per protocol population was the primary analysis population.  
- 
- 
- 
Rationale for acceptance range for dosage and haemoglobin  
For  Hb,  a  range  of  ±  1g/dl  has  been  previously  used  and  was  considered  well  established  as  an 
equivalence range in parallel-group trials (data from EPAR on Epoetin delta). 
With  respect  to  dosage,  the  lowest  usual  dose-adjustment  used  as  a  pre-filled  syringe  was  1000  IU, 
which  roughly  corresponds  to  14  IU/kg/week  as  the  lowest  possible  change  of  dosage  in  normal 
clinical practice for a person of approximately 70 kg body weight. The rationale for the choice of the 
acceptance range regarding the dosage was the fact that a 15 IU/kg dose had been described as being  
close to the  no effect dosage in the EPAR on Dynepo. Accordingly, it was assumed that a difference 
in dose smaller than this would not matter in practice.  
18/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
The  administration  of  study  medication  in  the  PP  population  was  100%  for  SB309  and  Erypo, 
respectively. 
Table 9 Disposition of patients in the correction phase trial 
Screened 
Enrolled (randomised) 
Drop-outs after 
randomisation 
Safety population 
Full analysis set 
PP set 
Study completed  
(week 24, visit 8) 
Premature termination of the 
trial 
- Due to AEs 
Recruitment 
Total 
609 
63 
609 
598 
541 
546 
62 
36 
Patients (n) 
SB309 group 
780 
Erypo group 
305 
31 
305 
300 
273 
275 
30 
26 
304 
32 
304 
298 
268 
272 
32 
17 
The study was carried out between 27th December 2004 and 24th January 2006 at multiple study 
centres in Bulgaria, Poland, and Serbia. 
Conduct of the study 
There were no protocol amendments affecting the study results. 
Baseline data 
The demographics of patients are summarised below. 
Table 10 Demographic profile of patients in the Correction phase trial, safety population 
Parameters 
Correction phase study [study 04-05] 
SB309  
(n=305) 
Age (years) 
  Mean±SD 
Range 
Groups 
  12-65 years 
>65 years 
Sex 
Race 
  Female 
Male 
  Caucasian 
Other 
52.34±11.94 
22-73 
258 (85.6) 
47 (15.4) 
129 (42.3) 
176 (57.7) 
Erypo  
(n=304) 
53.58±12.70 
19-76 
246 (80.9) 
58 (19.1) 
127 (41.8) 
177 (58.2) 
305 (100.0) 
304 (100.0) 
19/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time period since suffering from 
ESRF (m) 
Most frequent diagnosis leading to 
renal failure 
- Glomerulonephritis 
- Diabetic nephropathy 
- Hypertensive nephropathy 
357 max 
24 median 
89 (29.5%) 
42 (13.9%) 
51 (16.9%) 
8.07±0.79 
Baseline (week 0) haemoglobin 
(g/dL), mean 
ESRF = end-stage renal failure, m = month(s), max = maximum 
307 max 
26 median 
82 (27.0%) 
33 (10.9%) 
62 (20.4%) 
8.04±0.79 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 609 subjects (305 test product and 304 reference product) were randomised for treatment. A 
total of 609 patients were considered evaluable for safety (305 test product and 304 reference product 
who  received  study  medication),  598  patients  evaluable  for  full  analysis  (300  test  product  and  298 
reference product who were treated for at least four weeks) and 541 patients evaluated as per protocol 
set (273 test product and 268 reference product without major protocol deviations).  
Outcomes and estimation 
The mean treatment duration of treatment of patients treated with SB309 was 157.79±30.05 days. For 
the patients treated with the reference drug the mean duration was 157.79±29.58 days. The maximally 
reached duration of treatment was 181 days for SB309and 178 days for Erypo. 
The mean haemoglobin value over the last four weeks was 11.61 ± 1.27 g/dl for the patients treated 
with SB309 and 11.63 ± 1.37 g/dl for patients treated with Erypo. The 95% confidence interval of the 
difference  (test-reference)  was  between  -  0.245  g/dl  and  0.201  g/dl  and  within  the  pre-defined 
equivalence range (±1.0 g/dl).  
Table 11 Mean haemoglobin (g/dL) over the last four weeks (correction phase study) – PP population 
Treatment 
SB309 
Erypo 
SD = standard deviation 
Mean 
11.61 
11.63 
Description 
SD 
1.27 
1.37 
Max 
14.50 
14.93 
The mean weekly epoetin dosage per kg body weight over the last four weeks was 182.20 ± 118.11 
IU/kg/week  (SB309)  and  166.14  ±  109.85  IU/kg/week  (Erypo).  The  95%  confidence  interval  of  the 
difference (test-reference) was between –3.21 IU/kg/week and 35.34 IU/kg/ week hence equivalence 
of  the  test  and  reference  product  could  not  be  confirmed  regarding  dosage  using  the  predefined 
equivalence limits (see discussion below). The dosage of the test drug within the last four weeks was 
approximately 10% higher than the dosage of the reference product. 
The mean Hb concentrations and epoetin dosages over time in both treatment groups are presented in 
the Figure below. 
20/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportion of patients with treatment success  
A  total  of  230  patients  treated  in  each  of  both  groups  (84.2%  of  patients  treated  with  test  drug  and 
85.8% of patients treated with reference drug) registered treatment success. 
Increase of haemoglobin over time 
Haemoglobin increased from a mean value of 8.07 ± 0.79 g/dl at week 0 to 11.60 ± 1.37 g/dl at week 
24 in the patients treated with the test drug. In the reference group, the haemoglobin level increased 
from a mean value of 8.04 ± 0.79 g/dl at week 0 to 11.61 ± 1.44 g/dl at week 24. In both treatment 
groups  a  plateau  was  observed  during  the  last  five  weeks  of  treatment.  The  rate  of  increase  of 
haemoglobin over time was highly similar in both treatment groups. 
Proportion of patients with maintenance success  
A maintenance success was achieved in 236 (86.4%) patients treated with the test product and in 227 
(84.7%)  patients  treated  with  the  reference  drug.  The  95%  confidence  interval  for  the  treatment 
difference (test-reference) was between –4.2% and 7.7%. 
Table 12 Proportion of patients with maintenance success (correction phase study) – PP population 
Treatment 
Maintenance success n (%) 
Yes 
SB309 (n=273) 
Erypo (n=268) 
Source: Study 411-54-04-05-0000 [5.3.5.1 study 04-05]  
236 (86.4) 
227 (84.7) 
No 
37 (13.6) 
41 (15.3) 
n (%) 
273 (100) 
268 (100) 
Mean weekly dosage of epoetin per kg body weight during each interval of 4 weeks of treatment 
A permanent and very similar increase over each interval of four weeks could be observed within the 
first  16  weeks  in  both  treatment  groups.  Within  the  last  eight  weeks  the  dosage  of  the  reference 
product decreased slightly but constantly and that of the test drug remained  approximately constant. 
The treatment differences were not statistically significant for any of the 4-week periods. 
21/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean haemoglobin levels during each interval of 4 weeks of treatment 
The course of the mean haemoglobin levels over time was practically identical for both products. No 
statistically  significant  differences  were  registered  for  any  of  the  four  week  intervals  between  both 
products. The treatment difference was not statistically significant. 
Mean haemocrit levels during each interval of 4 weeks of treatment 
Baseline values from patients treated with SB309 increased from 24.7% at baseline to 35.6% in week 
21-24. Baseline values from patients treated with Erypo increased from 24.7% (baseline) up to 35.8% 
in  week  21-24.  No  statistically  significant  differences  were  registered  for  any  of  the  four  week 
intervals between both products. 
Proportion of patients with an increase of haemoglobin of more than 1 g/dl for 4 weeks 
All except three patients in each treatment group experienced an increase of more than 1 g/dl within a 
period  of  four  weeks  (SB309  n=270,  Erypo  n=265).  The  treatment  difference  was  not  statistically 
significant. 
Percentage of haemoglobin measurements above 10 g/dl 
An  average  of  64.3%  of  the  haemoglobin  values  in  patients  treated  with  SB309  were  above  10  g/dl 
over the total treatment time. In the Erypo group the corresponding proportion was 65.7%. There was 
no  statistically  significant  treatment  difference  regarding  this  parameter.  The  descriptive  statistics 
regarding the four week intervals showed a mean of 14.0% (SB309) and 15.9% (Erypo) for the period 
week  1-4.  During  week  21-24 the  corresponding  proportions  were  86.8%  and  85.5%.  The treatment 
difference was not statistically significant. 
Percentage of haemocrit measurements above 30% 
On average, 68.6% of the haematocrit values from patients treated with SB309 were above 30% over 
the total treatment period. In the reference group the corresponding value was 69.7%. The treatment 
difference  was  not  statistically  significant.  The  descriptive  statistics  regarding  the  4-week  intervals 
showed an increase from a mean of 20.3% (SB309) and 19.2% (reference product) for the period week 
1-4 to 89.7% in both treatment groups during week 21-24. 
Proportion of patients with blood transfusions 
Within  the  work-up  period  (PP  population),  three  patients  received  blood  transfusions.  During  the 
double-blind treatment phase, 10 patients of the SB309 group and 13 patients of the reference group 
required one or more blood transfusions. The treatment difference was not statistically significant. 
Maintenance Phase Study 
Study  411-54-04-04-0000  [study  04-04]  was  a  randomised,  double-blind,  cross-over,  verum-
controlled, multiple-dose, multinational design phase III trial in patients with renal anaemia to prove 
the  therapeutic  equivalence  of  IV  administered  SB309  to  the  reference  product  (Erypro)  for 
maintaining the haemoglobin concentration in these patients. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Patients were only eligible for enrollment if ALL of the following applied: 
male or female patients, aged 18-75 years; haemodialysis patients with end-stage renal failure and 
renal anaemia currently on epoetin treatment for at least 3 months; patients on stable, adequate dialysis 
for at least three months (defined as no clinically relevant changes of dialysis regimen and/or 
22/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dialyzer); informed consent given in a written form after being provided with detailed information 
about the nature, risks, and scope of the clinical trial as well as the expected desirable and adverse 
effects of the drug. Patients were not eligible for enrollment if ANY of the following applied: 
contraindication for the test drug; relative or absolute iron deficiency at the end of run-in period; 
myelodysplastic syndrome;  documented bleeding disorders; platelet count below 100x109/l; known, 
clinically manifested deficiency of folic acid and/or vitamin B12 (irrespective whether currently 
treated or not); known bone marrow fibrosis (osteitis fibrosa cystica);  clinically relevant changes of 
dialysis regimen and/or dialyzer during the trial; clinically relevant increase of CRP (higher than 10 
mg/dl) for at least 2 weeks; any blood transfusion within the last 3 months prior double-blind 
treatment period;  acute bleeding and/or recently documented haemorrhage;  hypersensitivity to 
epoetin; epoetin dosages > 3x200 IU/kg/week;  hypersensitivity to albumin;  detectable anti-epoetin 
antibodies; uncontrolled hypertension;  any of the following within the 6 months prior to double-blind 
study drug administration:- myocardial infarction,- stroke,- severe/unstable angina,- 
coronary/peripheral artery bypass graft,- decompensated congestive heart failure (NYHA class III – 
IV),- cerebrovascular incident or transient ischemic attack,- pulmonary embolism,- deep vein 
thrombosis, or other thromboembolic event;  known epilepsy; liver cirrhosis with clinical evidence of 
complications (portal hypertension, splenomegaly,ascites); patients with confirmed aluminium 
intoxication; , clinically relevant hemolysis and/or occult blood loss;  presence of malignant tumors; 
clinically relevant malnutrition;  pregnancy or lactation period in female patients;  severe physical or 
mental concomitant diseases that might hamper the realization of thetrial according to protocol or the 
evaluation of efficacy or safety;  anamnestic or current alcohol abuse i.e. consumption of more than 10 
units of alcohol per week or a history of alcoholism or drug/chemical abuse (one unit of alcohol equals 
½ l ofbeer, 200 ml wine or 50 ml of spirits); participation in another clinical trial within the last 12 
weeks;  legal incapacity and/or other circumstances rendering the patient unable to understand the 
nature, scope and possible consequences of the study; unreliability or lack of cooperation;  lack of a 
possibility to attend the visits required by protocol. 
Treatments 
During the run-in period, the reference product Erypo was administered IV, 1-3 times per week. 
During the double-blind treatment phase, SB309 or Erypo, 1000 IU or 2000 IU epoetin, were 
administered IV, 1-3 times per week.  
Duration of Study 
Double-blind  treatment  of  24  weeks,  preceded  by  an  open  run-in  period  of  12-16  weeks.  In 
substantiated cases a prolongation of the run-in period was allowed up to max. 18 weeks. After the end 
of the 24 weeks double-blind treatment, all patients could continue treatment with the test product as a 
part of an open, follow-up safety trial. 
Objectives 
To  prove  the  therapeutic  equivalence  of  SB309  to  a  reference  product  (Erypo)  for  maintaining  the 
haemoglobin concentration in anaemic patients with end-stage renal failure on chronic haemodialysis. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Efficacy Endpoints: 
- 
Intra-individual change (test-reference) in mean weekly dosage per kg body weight of each 
product during the double-blind treatment period 
Intra-individual change (test-reference) in mean haemoglobin level during double-blind treatment 
with each study drug.  
- 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints: 
-  Mean haemocrit levels during double-blind treatment with each study drug 
23/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Proportion of patients with any permanent changes of haemoglobin levels of more than 1 g/dl 
during the double-blind period  
-  Proportion of patients with any transient changes of haemoglobin levels of more than 1 g/dl 
during the double-blind period  
-  Proportion of patients with any permanent dose change during the double-blind period 
-  Proportion of patients with any transient dose change during the double-blind period 
-  Proportion of patients with any haemoglobin measurement outside the target range during the 
double-blind treatment period 
Incidence of blood transfusions 
- 
Safety Endpoints: 
- 
- 
- 
Occurrence of anti-epoetin antibodies 
Ratings of tolerability 
Evaluation of adverse events 
Sample size 
Sample  Size  Level  1:  The  calculated    sample  size  of  50  patients  who  completed  the  double-blind 
treatment period would achieve a power of more than 80% for the two-sided proof of equivalence for 
the Hb targeted endpoint. 
Sample  size  Level  2:  The  calculated  sample  size  of  220  patients  who  complete  the  double-blind 
treatment  period  would  achieve  a  power  of  more  than  80%  for  the  two-sided  proof  of  equivalence 
regarding epoetin dosage. If approximately 35% of the randomized patients drop-out before the end of 
the double-blind period, a total number of 340 patients had to be randomized in the present trial. To 
reach  this  number  of  randomized  patients,  more  than  340  patients  had  to  be  included  in  the  run-in 
period of the study.  
Randomisation 
Randomisation  was  performed  at  the  beginning  of  the  double-blind  period  with  patients    randomly 
(1:1) assigned to the two different treatment groups  
Patients were only randomised when the target Hb level was within the range of 10.5-12.5 g/dl with 
stable epoetin dosage and without intra-individual change in Hb of more than 0.6 g/dl over 4 weeks. 
Blinding (masking) 
This has been previously described in the correction phase study above. 
Statistical methods 
The 95% confidence intervals of the intra-individual change (test-reference)  were calculated for: 
-  mean weekly dosage per kg body weight of each product during the double-blind treatment 
period 
-  mean haemoglobin level during double-blind treatment period  
The confidence intervals were compared with pre-defined clinically relevant acceptance ranges: 
-  ±14 IU/kg/week for dosage 
-  ±0.6 g/dl for haemoglobin 
The intervals were calculated by means of ANOVA. 
24/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The evaluation of the secondary and safety endpoints was performed according to the type of 
distribution of the respective parameter. A Chi-square test was applied for parameters with discrete 
distribution, a t-test or a Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon test was applied for continuous parameters. 
The statistical analysis was performed on three different patient populations: 
-  Full data set of efficacy, including all patients who started therapy and had any follow-up 
information regarding the primary endpoint after switch-over, and did not violate major entry 
criteria. 
-  Full data set for safety, including all patients who started therapy irrespective of the information 
regarding the primary endpoint. 
-  Per protocol population, excluding cases of major protocol violation and drop-outs. 
Results 
Participant flow 
The administration of study medication was correctly performed in 96.7% of all cases for SB309 and 
in 97.5% of all cases for the reference medication (PP set).  
Table 13 Disposition of patients in the maintenance  phase trial  
Screened 
Enrolled 
Safety population 
(randomised) 
Full analysis set 
PP set 
Study completed 
(week 24, visit 10) 
Premature 
termination  
313 
282 
239 
269 
44 
Recruitment 
Period 1: 158 
Period 2: 146 
Patients (n) 
407 
402 
Period 1: 
155 
Period 2: 
145 
143 
121 
135 
20 
139 
118 
134 
24 
Comments 
Without 15 patients from centres 1, 6, and 7 
Started open run-in treatment period 
Patients eligible for randomisation into the 
double-blind study phase 
Without patients treated less than 1 month in 
the second study period 
Without patients with major protocol 
deviations 
- 
26 due to adverse events  
9 met exclusion criteria  
7 on own request  
1 non-compliance  
1 contact to patient lost 
The study was carried out between 3rd May 2004 and 15th December 2005 at multiple study centres in 
Germany and Poland. 
Conduct of the study 
There were no protocol amendments affecting the study results. 
Baseline data 
The overall average age of patients enrolled was 55.19 ±13.28 years. All patients were Caucasian. The 
treatment groups were well balanced with regard to demographic, anthopometric and disease-specific 
baseline characteristics. 
The demographics of patients are summarised in the table below. 
25/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 Demographic profile of patients in the Maintenance phase trial, safety population 
Maintenance phase study [study 04-04] 
Parameters 
Age (years) 
  Mean±SD 
Range 
Groups 
12-65 years 
>65 years 
Female 
Male 
Sex 
Race 
  Caucasian 
Other 
Time period since suffering from ESRF (m) 
Most frequent diagnosis leading to renal failure 
-Glomerulonephritis 
-Diabeticnephropathy 
- Hypertensive nephropathy 
ESRF = end-stage renal failure, m = month(s) 
Numbers analysed 
SB309/Erypo  
(n=313) 
55.19±13.28 
20-77 
232 (74.1%) 
81 (25.9%) 
125 (39.9%) 
188 (60.1%) 
313 (100) 
0 (0) 
3-347, median 37 
106 (34.6%) 
51 (16.7%) 
23 (7.5%) 
A  total  of  313  patients  were  randomised  for  treatment  and  considered  evaluable  for  safety,  282 
patients were evaluable for full analysis and 239 patients evaluated as per protocol set.  
Outcomes and estimation 
The  mean  treatment  duration  in  the  PP  population  was  82.31±4.75 days  for  SB309  and 
82.79±7.69 days for the reference product. 
Primary Endpoints 
The mean haemoglobin values measured during run-in phase and double-blind treatment with SB309 
and the reference product are  shown in the table below. The 95% CI interval of the intra-individual 
difference  (test - reference)  of  the  mean  haemoglobin  level  during  double-blind  treatment  with  each 
study drug was between 0.09 g/dL and 0.28 g/dL and thus entirely within the pre-defined equivalence 
range (±0.6 g/dL).  
Table 15 Mean haemoglobin (g/dL) over treatment period (maintenance phase study) – PP population 
Treatment 
Run-in  
SB309 
Erypo 
SD = standard deviation 
Mean 
11.56 
11.35 
11.54 
Description 
SD 
0.69 
0.76 
0.65 
Max 
13.42 
14.22 
13.84 
The  mean  epoetin  dosage administered  during  double-blind  treatment  with  SB309  and the  reference 
product  was  92.68±62.60  IU/kg/week  and  92.58±64.31IU/kg/week,  respectively.  The  maximum 
weekly  dosage  was  437.25 IU/kg/week  in  the  run-in  phase  and  398.41 IU/kg/week  with  SB309 
compared to 393.07 kg/IU/week with Erypo. 
26/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 95% CI interval of the intra-individual difference (test - reference) of the mean weekly dosage per 
kg  bodyweight  of  each  product  during  double-blind  treatment  was  between  -4.67 IU/kg/week  and 
4.29 IU/kg/week and within the pre-defined equivalence range.  
Results  of  the  primary  efficacy  parameters  are  summarised  below.  Following  a  switch  from  the 
reference  to  the  test  drug  the  dose  increased  by  approximately  10-15%  and  the  haemoglobin  level 
decreased  transiently  by  approximately  5%.  After  a  switch  from  test  to  reference  product  the  dose 
decreased by approximately 10% and simultaneously an increase of approximately 10% was observed 
in  haemoglobin  levels.  This  difference  could  possibly  be  explained  by  the  difference  in  mean 
bioactivity  between  the  SB309  and  Erypo  batches  used  in  the  study  as  measured  by  the  Ph.Eur. 
normocythaemic  mouse  assay,  although  all  batches  remained  within  the  Ph. Eur.  limits,  namely 
80%-125% (with error limits of 64 to 156%). The inter-batch difference in bioactivity spanned a range 
of  23%.  After  correction  for  bioactivity,  the  results  of  the  95%  CI:  intervals  for  the  difference  in 
dosage  between  the  two  products  were  3.806-13.917 IU/kg/week  (for  details  on  correction  for 
bioactivity see below). 
Figure 2 Haemoglobin levels vs nominal-based epoetin dosage 
Secondary Endpoints 
Mean haematocrit levels during double-blind treatment period  
Mean  haematocrit  levels  during  the  double-blind  treatment  period  with  each  study  drug  appeared 
similar:  34.30  ±  2.52%  for  test  treatment  and  34.87  ±  2.15%  for  reference  treatment,  although  the 
difference  was  statistically  significant  (p<0.0001);  the  95%  confidence  interval  for  the  mean 
difference (test-reference) was between 0.28% and 0.85%.  
Proportion of patients with any permanent changes of haemoglobin levels of more than 1 g/dl during 
the double-blind period  
A permanent change in Hb was observed in 10.5% of the patients under test treatment and in 11.3% of 
the patients under reference treatment. The treatment difference was not statistically significant 
Proportion of patients with any permanent or transient dose change during the double-blind period  
During treatment with test product 94 patients (39.3%) had a permanent dose change and 141 patients 
(59.0%) had a transient dose change. A permanent dosage change during treatment with the reference 
product was necessary in 98 patients (41.0%), whilst transient dosage changes occurred in 155 patients 
(64.9%). The treatment difference was not statistically significant.  
27/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportion of patients with any haemoglobin measurement outside the target range 
In the course of the treatment with SB309 and with the reference product, 32.6% of patients on test 
and and 36.4% of patients on reference drug experienced Hb values outside the target Hb range 
(10.5-12.5 g/dL). The treatment difference was not statistically significant 
Incidence of blood transfusions 
During the run-in phase only one patient needed a blood transfusion. In the course of the double-blind 
treatment  phase  three  patients  on  test  drug  and  two  patients  on  reference  drug  received  blood 
transfusions.  
Ancillary analyses 
Due to concerns of carry-over effects from the first to the second treatment phase and that the study 
duration  may  have  been  too  short  to  fully  assess  treatment  differences,  the  applicant  provided 
additional analyses, including a comparison of Hb values and epoetin doses over the last 4 weeks of of 
each treatment period (and therefore excluding the first 8 weeks), as an attempt to minimise carry over 
effects from previous epoetin treatment. The equivalence margins were also met with this new post-
hoc analysis.  
In  addition,  the  applicant  presented  the  mean  Hb  levels  and  epoetin  dosages  over  the  complete  52-
week treatment period (see Figure below). A stable Hb had already been achieved at the 12-week time 
point of the second treatment phase and the epoetin dose did not further increase in the test/test group 
(in  fact  it  declined  thereafter  and  got  closer  to  the  reference  dose).  Of  note,  a  similar  percentage  of 
patients in both treatment groups, i.e. 87% and 85% enrolled in the test-reference group and reference-
test group, respectively, completed the 24-week comparative phase. In addition, a similar percentage 
of  these  completers,  i.e.  86%  and  87%  of  the  test-reference  and  reference-test  group,  respectively, 
entered the follow-up phase during which all patients were treated with the test product.  
To avoid possible bias due to drop-outs, the epoetin doses only for those patients that completed the 
parent study and enrolled in the follow-up study are depicted in Figure below. The mean treatment 
difference in epoetin dosage at the end of the parent study was higher in this group compared to the 
overall completer group indicating that the decline in dosage observed after the 24-week time point of 
the comparative phase was not due to drop-out of patients on high doses of the test drug. 
28/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: 
Randomization
Cross-over 
Start Follow-up
/
i
]
l
d
g
[
n
b
o
g
o
m
e
H
l
13,0
12,5
12,0
11,5
11,0
10,5
10,0
9,5
9,0
8,5
8,0
7,5
7,0
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
]
k
e
e
w
g
k
/
U
/
I
[
e
s
o
D
Run-in (Hb)
Test (Hb_1)
Reference (Hb_1)
Test (Hb_2)
Reference (Hb_2)
Run-in (Do se)
Test (Do se_1)
Reference (Do se_1)
Test (Do se_2)
Reference (Do se_2)
-12
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
16
20
24
28
32
36
40
44
48
52
Week of treatment
Adjustment for bioactivity 
Although there were differences in bioactivity in the batches, Erypo batches were found on average to 
have  8%  higher  bioactivity  than  SB309  batches,  although  all  batches  remained  within  the  Ph. Eur. 
limits, namely 80%-125% (with error limits of 64 to 156%). The difference in bioactivity was shown 
to be associated with a correspondingly higher protein content in the Erypo batches which contained 
on average 9% over the labelled amount of protein, compared with on average 1% over the labelled 
amount  with  SB309.  On  the  other  hand,  the  average  specific  activities  for  both  products  were 
remarkably similar (130.80 for test vs. 130.75 units/µg for reference).  
The  applicant  therefore  provided  an  additional  analysis  adjusting  epoetin  dosage  for  inter-batch 
variability in bioactivity. For this purpose, the applicant utilised a correction factor in the reanalysis of 
the  data  with  respect  to  dosage.  However,  even  with  the  application  of  a  correction  factor,  the 
correction  phase  study  failed  to  meet  its  pre-specified  criteria  for  equivalence  since  the  95% 
confidence  interval  fell  between  (-23.5,  17.48)  IU/kg/week.  In  addition,  introduction  of  a  correction 
factor into the maintenance phase study led to a widening of the revised 95% CI for dosage of 3.086-
13.917 IU/kg/week. However, both 95% CIs were included in the modified acceptance range of ± 45 
IU/kg/week (for details of the widening of the equivalence margins see below). 
A comparison of results for uncorrected and corrected data is given in the Table below. 
29/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16: 
Comparison of effects of SB309 and Erypo in the correction and maintenance 
treatment of anaemic haemodialysis patients (double-blind period) 
Primary endpoints 
Correction phase study 
Maintenance phase study 
SB309 
Erypo 
SB309 
Erypo 
Haemoglobin values, g/dL 
- Mean  
- Maximum 
95% CI of the difference  
(test - reference), g/dL 
Pre-defined equivalence 
range, g/dL 
Epoetin dosage, IU/kg/week 
Nominal/labelled dosage 
-Mean 
Maximum 
95% CI of the difference  
(test - reference), IU/kg/week 
Pre-defined equivalence 
range, IU/kg/week 
Bioactivity corrected dosage 
Mean 
Maximum 
95% CI of the difference  
(test – reference), IU/kg/week 
Equivalence range, 
IU/kg/week 
Over the last 4 weeks 
Over the treatment period (12 weeks) 
11.61±1.27 
14.50 
11.63±1.37 
14.93 
11.35±0.76 
14.22 
11.54±0.65 
13.84 
-0.245-0.201 
±1.0 
0.09-0.28 
±0.6 
Over the last 4 weeks 
Over the treatment period (12 weeks) 
182.20±118.11 
571.43 
166.14±109.85 
585.37 
92.68±62.60 
437.25 
92.58±64.31 
393.07 
-3.21-35.34 
±14.0 
-4.67-4.29 
±11.11 
186.12±120.26 
560.71 
183.09±122.59 
660.73 
93.47±62.77 
424.66 
102.50±72.42 
441.08 
-23.543-17.48 
3.806-13.917 
±36.6 
±20.5 
The  applicant  clarified  that  dose  correction  for  bioactivity  was  performed  based  on  the  exact 
bioactivity of every single syringe administered throughout the trial to every patient.  
Widening of acceptance range 
The correction phase study did not meet the co-primary end-point of mean weekly dosage of epoetin 
per  kg  bodyweight  during  the  last  4  weeks  of  treatment  since  this  showed  a  mean  difference  of  16 
IU/kg/week (corresponding to 9.6% of reference dose) with a 95% CI of -3.21 to 35.34 IU/kg/week 
(corresponding to 1.9-21% of reference dose), which was outside the pre-specified equivalence range 
(+/-14 IU/kg/week [corresponding to 8.4% of the reference dose]).  
The applicant initially argued that the difference in epoetin dose observed between test and comparator 
products was considered to be attributable to the batches of reference product having up to 15% higher 
activity and that this deviation from the labelled content was within the Ph. Eur. approved limits for 
bioactivity of 80-125%.  The applicant therefore suggested a widening of the equivalence margins to 
at  least  the  release  specification  of  80  to  125%  and  showed  in  a  post-hoc  analysis  that  a  change  in 
bioactivity of up to 25%, on average, did not relevantly influence Hb levels in the study population. 
During the scientific assessment, the applicant clarified that the pre-defined equivalence margin of 14 
IU/kg/week  was  wrong  and  should  be  corrected  to  45  IU/kg  /week  because  of  a  misreading  of  the 
EPAR of Dynepo were it is stated that the no-effect dosage for Dynepo is 15 IU/kg given three times 
weekly (TIW) and not only once weekly. This newly proposed acceptance range was also supported 
by  literature.  The  applicant  provided  evidence  that  a  difference  of  35.3  IU/kg/week  in  epoetin  dose 
(worst case scenario in the correction phase trial) was clinically not relevant in the investigated study 
population, whether this difference was calculated as absolute value or as percentage of the reference 
30/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose (21%). The applicant also provided further reassurance that such a difference does not result in a 
different safety profile. 
Study 441-54-04-46-0000 
This uncontrolled safety trial was conducted in cancer patients with chemotherapy-induced anaemia. 
A  12  week  interim  report  was  provided.  A  comprehensive  historical  comparison  was  presented  as 
supportive information (data not shown). 
Study objective 
The primary objective of this trial was to provide information on the incidence of clinically significant 
thrombotic events (deep vein thrombosis requiring anticoagulant therapy, embolic events including 
pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, cerebral ischemia, left ventricular failure and thrombotic 
microangiopathy) within the first 12 weeks of treatment with SB309. 
Disposition of patients 
A  total  number  of  261  male  and  female  anaemic  (Hb  <10  g/dL)  patients  with  cancer  (solid  tumors, 
malignant lymphoma or multiple myeloma) gave their informed consent, of which 216 patients were 
enrolled after fulfilling of inclusion and exclusion criteria. The information for efficacy and safety was 
based on data from 208 patients. The evaluation of serious adverse events (SAEs) was based on data 
from 216 patients due to the fact that SAEs were reported on a regular basis for all patients enrolled. A 
total of 97 patients dropped out, 90 patients during the first 12-week treatment period. 
Haemoglobin 
The  baseline  mean  Hb  value  was  8.7  ±  0.92  g/dl  (n=207).  Treatment  with  SC  SB309  led  to  a 
continuous increase in Hb by on average 2.7 g/dl to a mean of 11.4 ± 1.98 g/dl within 12 weeks. This 
Hb  increase  was  statistically  significant  compared  to  baseline  values  (p<0.0001)  demonstrating  a 
strong evidence for the efficacy of SB309 in the target population. 
Published data on epoetin alfa show similar mean haemoglobin values after treatment periods of 12-28 
weeks of 11.3-12.0 g/dl and a mean Hb increases in the range of 1.8-3.3 g/dl (Littlewood et al. 2001: 
2.2-3.3 g/dL within 12-24 weeks, Cortesi et al. 2005: 1.8 g/dL within 10 weeks, Gabrilove et al. 2001: 
1.8  g/dL  within  16  weeks,  Sasha  et  al.  2003:  1.9  g/dL  within  16  weeks,  Quirt  et  al.  2001:  2.8  g/dL 
within 16 weeks). The results obtained from the current trial are thus in line with literature data. 
Epoetin dose 
The  range  of  the  mean  weekly  epoetin  doses  applied  was  502.7  ±  151.08  IU/kg  to  598.7  ±  265.04 
IU/kg  (n=207).  Between  weeks  4  and  8  an  apparent  increase  of  the  mean  dosage  was  observed 
followed by a decrease from week 8 onwards until the end of first treatment period. This corresponds 
to the dosage recommendations given in the protocol. 
The  graphical  presentation  (Figure  4)  demonstrates  that  SB309  is  effective  regarding  the 
recommended  initial  dose  and  its  ability  to  reach  the  target  haemoglobin  concentration  of 
approximately  12  g/dl.  This  aligns  with  published  results  from  similar  trials  with  Epoetin  alfa  in 
cancer patients. 
31/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: 
available at respective visits) 
Haemoglobin levels vs. erythropoietin dosage (mean values for data 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
None submitted. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
None submitted. 
Supportive studies 
Study 441-54-04-14-0000 
Patients  with  renal  anaemia  completing  either  of  the  above  efficacy  studies  were  eligible  to  receive 
SB309  in  this  open-label,  uncontrolled  safety  trial  with  particular  focus  on  the  formation  of  anti-
epoetin  antibodies.  A  total  of  745  patients  were  included.  An  interim  report  covering  data  from  23-
May  2005  until  27-April-2006  was  presented  for  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  with  the  initial 
submission. The applicant provided further interim data on the follow-up study covering the first 28 
weeks. These data suggested that adequate Hb levels could be well  maintained with the use of SB309 
(data not shown). No case of lack/loss of efficacy was reported.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Dose response studies are not considered necessary for a medicinal product claimed to be similar to 
one already licensed since posology will be the same as for the reference product. 
The  titration  trial  was  conducted  broadly  in  accordance  with  CHMP  guidance.  It  was  noted  that  a 
comparative trial in renal anaemia patients using the SC route of administration was not possible at the 
time of clinical development due to the temporary contraindication of Erypo.  
The study results indicate that both products can control Hb levels to the same extent, but higher doses 
of  SB309  were  required  for  control  to  be  achieved.    The  applicant  claimed  that  this  difference  in 
epoetin  dosage  was  due  to  differences  in  syringe  content  (with  regard  to  bioactivity  and  protein 
content)  of  SB309  and  Erypo  despite  the  same  nominal  dose  and  all  syringes  remaining  within  the 
release  specifications  of  80-125%.  This  is  supported  by  the  almost  identical  specific  bioactivity  of 
both products. Although these arguments were considered plausible, correction of epoetin dosage for 
bioactivity was not endorsed because it is doubtful that a true correction can be achieved due to the 
high  intrinsic  variability  of  the  bioassay  used  to  determine  bioactivity  (an  indicator  may  be  that 
correction led to contrasting effects in the correction phase and maintenance phase study). In addition, 
adjusting  every  single  administered  syringe  for  bioactivity  is  not  practical  and  difficult  if  not 
impossible to verify. Moreover, the applicant could show that changes in bioactivity of up to 25% did, 
32/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on average, not relevantly affect Hb levels. Also in the light of these data, a bioactivity correction for a 
mean difference of 8% in bioactivity does not appear to be justified.   
The  applicant  also  argued  for  wider  equivalence  margins  than  those  pre-specified.    The  CHMP 
considered the acceptability of the post-hoc correction of the equivalence margin to ±45 IU/kg/week. 
The worst case scenario for the treatment difference in epoetin dose was a difference of 35.1 IU/kg per 
week  (upper  limit  of  the  95%  CI)  in  the  correction  phase  study.  This  value  is  clearly  below  the 
assumed  no-effect  level  of  45  IU/kg/week.  The  applicant  provided  an  analysis  from  the  correction 
study  showing  that,  on  average,  a  dose  increase  of  approximately  40  IU/kg/week  was  required  to 
achieve  a  borderline  relevant  increase  in  Hb  of  1  g/dL  in  patients  on  haemodialysis.  Since  the 
background  variability  in  Hb  is  high  in  this  patient  population,  even  in  “stable”  patients  on  stable 
epoetin doses, the chosen limit of 1 g/dL for definition of clinical relevance appeared acceptable. In an 
additional  analysis  the  applicant  could  provide  evidence  that  the  clinical  effect  of  batch  changes 
(measured as frequency of subsequent dose adjustments) of SB309 or due to product changes (from 
Erypo to SB309 or vice versa),  was not increased compared to batch changes of the reference product 
Erypo and therefore unlikely to elicit a safety concern. In addition, the applicant could show that Hb 
levels  and  epoetin  doses  were  very  similar  in  a  subgroup  of  patients  receiving  test  and  reference 
product  of  similar  bioactivity  further  supporting  the  assumption  that  SB309  and  Erypo  have  similar 
efficacy. Moreover, data from the follow-up study in patients with renal anaemia demonstrate that Hb 
levels can be well maintained with the use of different batches of SB309. In conclusion, the applicant 
could reasonably justify the modified equivalence margin of ± 45 IU/kg/week and, more importantly, 
could  demonstrate  that  a  difference  of  35.1  IU/kg/week  in  epoetin  dose  (worst  case  scenario)  was 
clinically  not  relevant  in  the  studied  population.  The  CHMP  requested  further  reassurance  that 
differences in dose up to 45 IU/kg/week (modified equivalence margin) will not result in a different 
safety profile (see safety section below). 
Taken  together,  the  study  results  and  additional  analyses  requested  by  CHMP  provided  convincing 
evidence that SB309 and Erypo have similar efficacy when used IV. The following considerations led 
to  the  conclusion  that  similar  efficacy  can  also  be  assumed  for  the  SC  route  of  administration:  The 
demonstration  of  similar  efficacy  for  the  IV  route,  together  with  the  similarity  of  PK  profiles, 
especially bioavailability, for both the IV and SC route of administration suggests similar efficacy also 
for SC use. The comparison of the efficacy data from the oncology trial with published data are in line 
with this conclusion.  
In conclusion, based on the argumentation and additional data provided by the applicant, comparable 
clinical  efficacy  between  SB309  and  Erypo  has  been  demonstrated  not  only  with  regard  to  the  Hb-
targeted endpoint but also with regard to epoetin dose for both routes of administration. The observed 
difference  in  epoetin  dose  appears  to  be  due  to  a  difference  in  the  syringe  content  (in  terms  of 
bioactivity  and  protein  content)  of  the  test  and  reference  product  batches  despite  the  same  nominal 
dose but is not considered clinically relevant. The difference in syringe content may be explained by 
the  use  of  different  bioassays  for  determination  of  bioactivity  for  the  test  product  (normocythaemic 
mouse bioassay used in the EU) and the reference product (exhypoxic polycythaemic mouse bioassay 
used in the USA). 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Safety  data  were  derived  from  922  adult  haemodialysis  patients  (correction  phase  study:  n=609 
patients,  thereof  206  without  epoetin  pre-treatment;  maintenance  phase  study:  n=313  patients)  have 
been provided. Of these, 618 patients were treated with SB309 and 617 patients with Erypo for 12-24 
weeks in the double-blind phases of the respective studies. A total of 745 patients who completed the 
correction  phase  study  (n=513)  and  the  maintenance  phase  study  (n=232)  are  further  treated  for  at 
least 52 weeks with SB309 in the ongoing follow-up study 411-54-04-14-0000. 
The clinical safety data were also derived from 208 patients with chemotherapy-induced anaemia and 
treated with SB309 in Study 441-54-04-46-0000.  
33/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events  
The  most  frequently  observed  AEs  were  hypertension,  AV-fistula  thrombosis/complications, 
infections and cardiovascular events. The observed spectrum of AEs was that expected for patients on 
haemodialysis. Cardiovascular events are the most common cause of death in this population. 
Although, overall there did not appear to be significant differences in the safety profiles of the test and 
reference drugs, there were nevertheless, differences seen in the correction phase trial which showed 
more  common  AEs  considered  at  least  possibly  drug-related  for  SB309.  Particularly,  an  increased 
incidence of drug-related cases of hypertension and SAEs involving hypertensive crisis, haemorrhagic 
stroke,  cerebrovascular  events  and  TIA  were  seen  with  SB309  in  the  correction  phase  trial.  In  this 
trial,  the  rate  of  hypertensive  events  was  9.2%  (8.2%  related)  (which  occurred  in  6.6%  of  patients) 
with SB309 compared to 5.9% (5.5% related) (which occurred in 4.3% of patients) with reference. On 
the  other  hand,  AV  fistula  thromboses  occurred  more  often  in  Erypo  treated  compared  to  SB309 
treated  patients  (incidence  4.6%  vs.  2.3%,  respectively).  A  total  of  16  patients  (11  SB309    versus  5 
Erypo) had SAEs belonging to the SOC “nervous system disorders”. Following an assessment of the 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements, it was assumed that these patients were at a higher 
risk  due  to  their  significantly  higher  blood  pressure  values  (147.77 mmHg±18.33)  compared  to  all 
other  patients  (139.93  mmHg±19.55).  Although,  in  the  correction  phase  study  overall  SAEs  were 
reported at a similar rate, i.e. in 94 and in 96 cases of test and reference treatment, respectively, SAEs 
relating to cerebrovascular events were more frequent in the SB309 group (10 vs. 3), whereas SAEs 
the  Erypo  group  (9  vs.4). 
relating 
Hypertension/hypertensive  crisis  occurred  in  2.1%  of  patients  during  test  treatment  and  in  2.0%  of 
patients during reference treatment.  
thromboses  were  more  frequent 
to  AV  fistula 
in 
In the maintenance phase trial, hypertension occurred in 1.9% of SB309 treated and in 2.2% of Erypo 
treated patients. There were 3 cases of hypertensive crisis with SB309 compared with only one in the 
reference group. On the other hand, peripheral occlusive disease and coronary artery disease was more 
frequent in the reference than in the test group (1.6% vs. 0.3% and 1.3% vs. 0%, respectively). Again, 
the  absolute  numbers  were  small.  Overall,  43  SB309  treated  patients  experienced  71  SAEs  and  52 
Erypo treated patients experienced 75 SAEs. With respect to SAEs the numbers for hypertension and 
hypertensive  crisis  were  2.8  %  in  the  test  vs.  0%  in  the  reference  group.  However,  none  were 
apparently drug related. 
In patients with chemotherapy-induced anaemia, eighty-four patients experienced a total of 163 AEs 
during the 12-week treatment period. Ninty-one of these events were assessed as serious and 65 AEs 
as  severe  by  the  investigators.  Twenty-one  patients  dropped-out  due  to  58  AEs  within  the  first  12 
weeks.  The  AEs  experienced  during  the  trial  were  typical  for  patients  with  cancer  receiving 
chemotherapy.  The  incidences  of  adverse  events  observed  in  the  present  trial  are  comparable  with 
literature data  in this population (Cortesi et al., 2005, Littlewood et al., 2001, Prescribing Information 
Procrit 2007). The causal relationship of these AEs and the study medication was judged as not related 
in  87.1%  (n=142),  unlikely  in  8.0%  (n=13),  probable  in  2.5%  (n=4,  deep  vein  thrombosis, 
thrombophlebitis, GI disorder, rash), possible in 1.2% (n=2, deep vein thrombosis, atrial fibrillation) 
and not assessable in 0.6% (n=1, infection) of cases. The two patients for which the event was judged 
as possibly related to study medication dropped-out. The mean systolic blood pressure remained more 
or  less  constant  from  visit  0  (123.07  ±  15.31  mmHg)  to  visit  5  (122.97  ±  14.23  mmHg).  The  same 
applies for the mean diastolic blood pressure: visit 0 (76.18 ± 10.41 mmHg) and visit 5 (76.98 ± 9.06 
mmHg). Local tolerability as assessed by the investigators after each administration of study drug was 
either excellent (83.2%-92.1%) or good (7.9%-16.8%).  
Incidence of clinically significant thrombotic events in patients with chemotherapy-induced anaemia 
At the date of the interim report 9 cases (AE or SAEs) were identified to belong to the events defined 
as primary endpoint: 1 superior vena cava occlusion (AE), 2 cardiac failures, 1 acute cardiac failure, 2 
cardiopulmonary  failures,  2  deep  vein  thromboses,  and  1  thrombophlebitis.  The  cardiac  failure,  the 
acute cardiac failure and the cardiopulmonary failure were associated with a fatal outcome. One of the 
9  events  occurred  within  the  second  treatment  period.  The  incidence  rate  of  clinically  significant 
thrombotic events in the safety population of patients (n=208) within the 12 weeks of treatment was 
thus  3.9%  (8  of  208).  This  incidence  rate  is  similar  or  lower  than  the  published  incidence  rates  for 
34/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
thrombotic events in epoetin treated cancer patients being between 5-6% (Vansteenkiste et al., 2002; 
Prescribing  Information  Epogen,  2004)  and  approx.  30%  (Rosenzweig  2004).  For  patients  with 
metastasic  breast  cancer  and  receiving  a  five  drug  chemotherapeutic  regimen  but  not  treated  with 
epoetin an incidence of 17.5% of such events was published by Goodnough (1984). The definition of 
thrombotic events in the present trial was as broad as possible in order to avoid any positive bias in 
favour of the test drug. Three cases (one of which was uncertain) of death in the oncology trial were 
associated with the development of a thrombotic event. 
Immunogenicity 
In both comparative trials in patients with  renal  anaemia, serum  samples for determination of anti-
epoetin antibodies were drawn at start and during the study.  The samples were frozen at -20º C and 
kept until analysis in a central laboratory. In all patients, the last available blood sample was analysed 
first.  Only  if  anti-epoetin  antibodies  were  detected  all  previous  blood  samples  for  the  respective 
patient  analysed  in  order  to  detect  the  time  point  of  first  occurrence.  In  suspicious  cases  with 
respective  clinical  symptoms,  blood  samples  could  be  analysed  at  an  earlier  time  point.  Usually, 
antibody testing should be performed from the beginning and on an ongoing basis to detect possible 
problems with immunogenicity early on. For determination of anti-erythropoietin antibodies in human 
serum  samples  a  validated  radio-immuno-precipitation  assay  (RIP-assay)  was  employed.  This  assay 
has  been  previously  described  and  published  by  Casadevall  et  al.    In  the  correction  phase  study, 
eleven patients were positive for anti-epoetin antibodies (7 patients in the SB309 group and 4 in the 
reference  group,  see  Table  below).  However,  in  all  these  11  patients  anti-erythropoietin  antibodies 
were already present at the screening visit. Although positive at the final visit, one patient was finally 
regarded  as  negative  in  all  available  samples.  In  the  maintenance  study,  three  (approx  1%)  of  the 
randomised patients had positive results for anti-epoetin antibodies which were already present at the  
screening  visit  (see  Table  17).  No  indication  of  PRCA  was  present  in  any  of  the  patients  with  a 
positive result in the screening test for anti-erythropoietin antibodies. 
Table 17: 
Patients with occurrence of anti-erythropoietin antibodies 
Study 
Patient 
Treatment / 
sequence 
Visit 
Finding 
411-54-04-05-0000 [5.3.5.1 
study 04-05] 
Correction phase study 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Positive 
Serum samples for determination of antibodies were collected at visit 1 (screening), visit 3, visit 5, and visit 8 
(final) in the correction phase study and at visit 1 (screening), visit 4, visit 5, visit 7, visit 8, and visit 10 (final). 
a) No data available for Visit 5; b) no data available for Visit 3 and 5; c) no data available for Visit 4 and 7. 
1, 3, 5, Final 
1, 3, 5, Final 
1, 3, 5, Final 
1, 3, Final 
1, 3, 5, Final 
1, 3, 5, Final 
1, 3, 5, Final 
1, 3, 5, Final 
1, 3, 5, Final 
1, 3, 5 
1, Final 
1, 5, 8, Final 
1, 4, 5, 7, 8, Final 
1, 4, 5, 7, 8, Final 
1, 4 
SB309 
SB309 
Erypo 
Erypo 
Erypo 
SB309 
SB309 
Erypo 
SB309 
SB309 
SB309 
Test - Reference 
Test - Reference 
Reference - Test 
Run-in phase 
1017 
1064 
1077 
1203a) 
1269 
1345 
1382 
1418 
1567 
1583 
1671b) 
132c) 
217 
227 
5035 (drop-out) 
411-54-04-04-0000 [5.3.5.1 
study 04-04] 
Maintenance phase study 
35/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  oncology  study  samples  from  189  patients  with  chemotherapy-related  anaemia  were 
evaluated  in  view  of  occurrence  of  anti-epoetin  antibodies.  All  samples  tested  showed  a  negative 
result. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
There was no significant treatment difference in mortality between treatment groups in haemodialysis 
patients.  During  the  correction  phase  trial,  26  vs  17  patients  of  the  test  and  reference  group, 
respectively,  were  withdrawn  due  to  an  AE,  those  withdrawn  due  to  SAEs  were  22  vs  14,  with 
withdrawal  figures  involving  the  nervous  system  SOC  showing  10  vs  2  for  SB309  and  reference, 
respectively. During the maintenance phase trial, 20 patients of each treatment group were withdrawn 
due to an AE. In the uncontrolled follow up study, 41 patients had study medication withdrawn. For 
SAEs see above. 
In patients with chemotherapy-induced anaemia, a total number of 19 patients died in the course of the 
trial until 26-Jul-2007 (14 within the first 12-week treatment period). One patient died before start of 
treatment. Fourteen cases of death were judged as not related and five cases as unlikely related to the 
study medication. A total of 93 SAEs were observed in 41 patients. In 19 patients (8.8 % of the study 
population) the SAE had a fatal outcome. The majority of SAEs reported so far belong to the SOCs 
blood  and  lymphatic  system  disorders  (22.6%,  n=21)  and  infections  and  infestations  (17.2%,  n=16), 
and renal and urinary disorders (10.8%, n=10). Among the first two groups pancytopenia was reported 
for 8.6% (n=8) of SAEs, followed by anaemia, febrile neutropenia and leukopenia (each 3.2%, n=3). 
Within the group of infections and infestations 5.4% (n=5) belong to sepsis, and 4.3% (n=4) belong to 
bronchopneumonia. Only eight SAEs could currently be identified to belong to the events defined as 
primary endpoint (2x cardiac failure, acute cardiac failure, 2x cardiopulmonary failure, 2x deep vein 
thrombosis,  and  thrombophlebitis).  The  majority  of  SAEs  were  assessed  as  severe  (79.6%,  n=74). 
Only 19.4% (n=18) of all reported events were assessed as moderate and 1.1% (n= 1) as mild. Most of 
the  reported  SAEs  were  judged  as  not  related  to  study  medication  (82.8%,  n=77).  An  unlikely 
relationship  to  study  drug  was  reported  for  14.0%  of  SAEs  (n=13).  Three  events  were  judged  as 
possibly related and concerned atrial fibrillation and deep vein thrombosis. The study medication was 
withdrawn in 20 of 208 patients (9.6%) due to an adverse event. 
Laboratory findings and vital signs 
Laboratory parameters were generally unremarkable and not significantly different between treatment 
groups. Vital signs: In the correction phase study, 4 out of a total of 53 SB309-treated patients with 
normotensive  blood  pressure  at  baseline  developed  hypertension.  The  majority  of  patients  showed 
hypertension at the beginning (n=226) and at the end (n=225) of the trial. Within the reference group, 
one  out  of  a  total  of  60  patients  with  normal  blood  pressure  at  entry  experienced  hypotension  and 
4 patients developed hypertension at final visit. Blood pressure indicating  hypertension was measured 
in 217 patients at entry visit. 
Safety in special populations 
Not applicable  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Not applicable  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Not applicable  
Post marketing experience 
Not applicable  
36/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Patients with renal anaemia 
The observed spectrum of AEs is that expected for patients on haemodialysis. Concerning the adverse 
event  profile  of  SB309  observed  in  the  correction  phase  trial,  increase  in  blood  pressure  and 
propensity  to  thrombosis  during  epoetin  therapy  could  at  least  be  partly  explained  by  an  increase  in 
blood  volume  and  the  change  in  viscosity  and  rheologic  properties  of  the  blood  with  increasing 
Hb/haematocrit.  However,  there  is  no  evidence  from  the  study  data  that  SB309  would  lead  to 
overshooting  Hb  response.  In  fact,  mean  Hb  values  were  very  similar  during  the  correction  phase 
study  and,  if  anything,  somewhat  lower  in  the  maintenance  phase  study.  Thus  the  most  likely 
explanation for the observed small differences appears to be variability in this high-risk population. 
The applicant conducted a number of analyses to address the concern of increased hypertensive events 
with SB309 observed in the anaemia correction study. High systolic BP has been identified as the only 
relevant risk factor for SAEs in the SOC Nervous System Disorder and this finding re-emphasizes the 
already known critical need for effective BP control in this high-risk population. Overall the data do 
not conclusively suggest that patients are at increased risk for hypertension and related events when 
using  SB309  compared  to  Erypo.  In  the  same  line,  no  such  increased  risk  has  been  identified  for 
SB309  in  the  maintenance  phase  study  (or  in  the  oncology  trial).  The  MAA  has  committed  to  an 
undertaking to monitor blood pressure in both naïve and pre-treated patients and  provide a proposal 
within  a  timeframe    to  be  agreed  by  CHMP.  Concerning  the  SOCs  of  specific  interest  (blood  and 
lymphatic  system,  cardiac  disorder,  vascular  disorders)  and  SAEs  in  the  SOC  Nervous  System 
Disorder,  the  applicant  committed  to  keep  these  events  under  review.  The  Applicant  will  further 
monitor hypertensive encephalopathy and will also include other CNS SOC events as part of the RMP. 
Patients with chemotherapy-related anaemia 
The  Applicant  provided  an  interim  report  on  the  oncology  trial  441-54-04-46-0000  and  a  final  12-
week safety report. The observed AE profile in this study was in line with that expected in this very ill 
population but due to the non-comparative nature of the study, direct comparison with the reference 
product was not possible. The incidence of thrombotic events was low, despite a very broad definition 
of  this  term.  Based  on  the  current  safety  information  and  published  series,  there  is  no  concern 
regarding the treatment of cancer patients with chemotherapy-induced anaemia with SB309.  
Immunogenicity 
Concerning  immunogenicity,  the  applicant  presented  an  interim  report  including  12-month  data  on 
227  patients  with  renal  anaemia  and  a  later  update  on  585  patients.  The  size  of  this  database  is 
considered  sufficient.  No  new  anti-epoetin  antibodies  developed  during  IV  treatment  with  SB309  , 
which  is  reassuring.  All  samples  tested  from  the  oncology  trial  (N=189  patients)  were  negative  for 
anti-epoetin antibodies.  
Immunogenicity  of  epoetin  is  considered  greater  for  SC  use  than  IV  use  and  in  immunocompetent 
(particular renal anaemia) patients than immunocompromised patients. Immunogenicity of SC use of 
SB309 has not been evaluated in patients with renal anaemia and, therefore, a respective warning and 
restriction to IV use in this population has been included into the SPC. 
The screening assay is considered sufficiently validated and sensitive. 
The applicant did not perform a neutralisation assay to examine whether the detected antibodies have 
neutralising  properties  because  no  new  antibodies  developed  during  the  study  and  in  all  antibody-
positive cases, titres decreased or remained stable during the study period indicating a lack of a boost 
effect  of  SB309.  The  applicant  could  show  that  a  qualified  and  sufficiently  validated  neutralisation 
assay is available for the post-marketing phase. However, to support all aspects of the validation some 
additional tests should be performed as a follow up measure. 
Contraindications and warnings for epoetin zeta are in line with Reference Product, Eprex/Erypo. 
37/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
The description of the applicant’s pharmacovigilance system contains comprehensive information on 
all relevant aspects and is considered acceptable. 
The  applicant  identified  potential  risks  which  were  not  detected  in  the  studies  but  which  are  known 
class  effects  for  epoetins.  Therefore  the  applicant  plans  special  pharmacovigilance  activities  to 
evaluate  the  potential  risk  of  thromboembolic  reactions  in  oncological  patients  as  well  as 
immunogenicity in patients with renal anaemia in association with the use of SB309. 
The  RMP  relating  to  the  immunogenicity  aspect  (close  monitoring  using  specific  questionnaires)  is 
generally acceptable. The applicant was asked to design their post-marketing investigations to take this 
into  account  in  addition  to  the  investigation  of  the  risk  of  neutralising  antibody  formation,  and 
thromboembolism in cancer patients. 
The overall safety profile of SB309 and the reference product Erypo appear to be similar. However, 
since  pre-marketing  data  are 
to  present  an  appropriate 
pharmacovigilance plan in order to further study the safety profile of SB309, particularly rare SAEs 
such as immune mediated PRCA. 
the  applicant  was  asked 
limited, 
In conclusion, the Risk Management Plan is considered acceptable for the current application provided 
the  Applicant  will  also  include  other  CNS  events  in  addition  to  hypertensive  encephalopathy  for 
further monitoring and provides a proposal on how to monitor blood pressure in both naïve and pre-
treated patients in the post-marketing phase. 
The  applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  SC  study  in  accordance  with  the  Guideline  on  similar 
medicinal  products  containing  recombinant  erythropoietins  (CHMP/94526/05)  using  the  reference 
product  Erypo  as  comparator.  In  addition,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  submitting  a  protocol  for 
market survey to monitor potential off-label use. 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Pure Red Cell Aplasia 
(PRCA) 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
including targeted 
questionnaires 
•  Study to evaluate safety and 
tolerability of epoetin zeta 
administered iv for the 
maintenance treatment of renal 
anaemia (CT-830-04-004) 
•  Post-authorisation cohort study 
of epoetin zeta for the treatment 
of renal anaemia (PMS-830-07-
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
•  Contraindication in section 4.3 of the SPC 
for use in patients who have previously 
experience PRCA following treatment with 
erythropoetins 
(cid:131)  Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC regarding 
PRCA 
(cid:131)  Mention in section 4.8 of the SPC 
38/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(cid:131) Advice to use i.v. route only in treatment 
of renal anaemia, in Section 4.2 of the 
SPC. 
(cid:131) Warning in section 4,4 of the SPC that iv 
route only should be used in chronic renal 
anaemia patients due to lack of 
immunogenicity data 
(cid:131) Educational leaflet  
• Risk of thrombotic vascular events (TVE) 
including serious and life threatening cardio-
vascular complications including the dose 
recommendation that the target haemoglobin 
not exceed 12 g/dl are mentioned in Sections 
4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC.  
Safety issue 
Increased risk of 
PRCA with off-label 
subcutaneous 
administration in renal 
failure patients 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
0043) 
•  Prospective open non-
controlled multi-centre study to 
evaluate safety and tolerability 
of epoetin zeta administered sc 
for the treatment of anaemia in 
cancer patients (CT-830-05-
0009) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
including targeted 
questionnaires 
•  Study to evaluate safety and 
tolerability of epoetin zeta 
administered iv for the 
maintenance treatment of renal 
anaemia (CT-830-04-004) 
•  Post-authorisation cohort study 
of epoetin zeta for the treatment 
of renal anaemia (PMS-830-07-
0043) 
•  Prospective open non-
controlled multi-centre study to 
evaluate safety and tolerability 
of epoetin zeta administered sc 
for the treatment of anaemia in 
cancer patients (CT-830-05-
0009 
•  Drug utilisation study on use of 
epoetin zeta 
Thrombotic vascular 
events (TVE) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
including targeted 
questionnaires 
•  Study to evaluate safety and 
tolerability of epoetin zeta 
administered iv for the 
maintenance treatment of renal 
anaemia (CT-830-04-004) 
•  Post-authorisation cohort study 
of epoetin zeta for the treatment 
of renal anaemia (PMS-830-07-
0043) 
•  Prospective open non-
controlled multi-centre study to 
evaluate safety and tolerability 
of epoetin zeta administered sc 
for the treatment of anaemia in 
cancer patients (CT-830-05-
0009 
Tumour Growth 
39/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Potential 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance  
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
• Risk of tumour growth potential are 
mentioned in Sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SPC.  
•  Study to evaluate safety and 
tolerability of epoetin zeta 
administered iv for the 
maintenance treatment of renal 
anaemia (CT-830-04-004) 
•  Post-authorisation cohort study 
of epoetin zeta for the treatment 
of renal anaemia (PMS-830-07-
0043) 
•  Prospective open non-
controlled multi-centre study to 
evaluate safety and tolerability 
of epoetin zeta administered sc 
for the treatment of anaemia in 
cancer patients (CT-830-05-
0009 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance  
•  Study to evaluate safety and 
tolerability of epoetin zeta 
administered iv for the 
maintenance treatment of renal 
anaemia (CT-830-04-004) 
•  Post-authorisation cohort study 
of epoetin zeta for the treatment 
of renal anaemia (PMS-830-07-
0043) 
General safety and 
long term use 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
above mentioned risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Extensive,  high  quality  studies  were  performed  to  compare  SB309  to  the  reference  product 
Erypo/Eprex at both the drug substance and the drug product level. The characterisation of the drug 
substance and the comparability studies to compare drug substance from different scale manufacturing 
process is also considered high quality applying state-of-the-art analytical methods with a high level of 
detail. 
Manufacturing  Processes  and  analytical  methods  have  been  appropriately  validated  and  safety  with 
regard to adventitious agents demonstrated.  Satisfactory controls have been applied. 
Two  major  objections  at  the  time  of  D121  List  of  Questions  have  been  resolved  and  a  number  of 
remaining  minor  points  remaining  were  proposed  as  commitments  to  be  concluded  in  the  post-
authorisation period. 
40/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The comparability of SB309 and Erypo was extensively tested preclinically at several levels (receptor 
binding,  growth  stimulation  of  cultured  bone  marrow  cells,  haematopoesis  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs, 
immunogenicity  in  rats  and  dogs)  so  that  the  claim  of  biosimilarity  relies  on  a  robust  and  broad 
preclinical  data  base.  Therefore,  since  all  aspects  of  epoetin  action  were  covered  by  the  preclinical 
development programme (as far as technically feasible), and no unexpected effects were detected the 
use of SB309 in patients appears safe from a pharmaco-toxicological point of view. 
Efficacy 
From  a  clinical  point  of  view  the  applicant  has  provided  sufficient  evidence  that  SB309  and  the 
reference  product  Erypo  are  similarly  effective  in  correcting  and  maintaining  haemoglobin 
concentrations and in this respect qualify as biosimilar products.  
Both  pivotal  efficacy  trials  met  their  primary  endpoint  with  respect  to  mean  haemoglobin  levels. 
Although, in the correction phase trial, the 95% CI of the treatment difference in epoetin dosage was 
outside the pre-specified equivalence margins, the applicant clarified that these pre-set margins were 
due  to  a  misreading  of  the  EPAR  on  Dynepo  and  therefore  should  be  corrected  to  45  IU/kg  /week. 
This newly proposed acceptance range was further supported by literature. 
In  addition,  the  applicant  provided  evidence  that  a  difference  of  35.3  IU/kg/week  in  epoetin  dose 
(worst  case  scenario)  was  clinically  not  relevant  in  the  investigated  study  population,  whether  this 
difference was calculated as absolute value or as percentage of the reference dose (21%).  
Moreover, the applicant could provide evidence that the clinical effect of batch changes (measured as 
frequency of subsequent dose adjustments) of SB309 or due to product changes (from Erypo to SB309 
or  vice  versa)  was  not  increased  compared  to  batch  changes  of  the  reference  product  Erypo  and 
therefore unlikely to elicit a safety concern if test is used instead of reference. A sub-group analysis of 
patients  who  received  batches  of  test  and  reference  of  similar  bioactivity  showed  very  similar  and 
stable Hb values and therefore provided additional reassurance of biosimilarity. 
Although  the  oncology  study,  by  design,  could  not  prove  similar  efficacy  of  SB309  and  Erypo,  the 
observed  increases  in  Hb  over  time  are  in  good  agreement  with  published  data  on  epoetin  alfa  and 
therefore further support the conclusion of biosimilarity..  
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
SB309 is a biological medicinal product. Data from  clinical studies with SB309 are in line with the 
safety  profile  of  other  authorized  epoetin-containing  medicinal  products  and  did  not  reveal 
unanticipated or unusual safety findings.  
The overall safety profile of SB309 and the reference product Erypo appear to be similar. However, 
since  pre-marketing  data  are 
to  present  an  appropriate 
pharmacovigilance plan in order to further study the safety profile of SB309, particularly rare SAEs 
such as immune mediated PRCA. Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, 
the CHMP considered that the proposed activities described in section 5 adequately addressed these. 
the  applicant  was  asked 
limited, 
User consultation 
A satisfactory user consultation for readability of the patient leaflet has been undertaken 
41/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Based on the data on quality, efficacy and safety, the risk-benefit ratio is considered positive for the IV 
indications. Biosimilarity between SB309 and Erypo has been sufficiently established. The applicant 
has  applied  for  both  the  intravenous  and  the  subcutaneous  route  of  administration  for  their  epoetin-
containing  medicinal  product  SB309.  However,  no  comparative  efficacy  and  safety  data  on 
subcutaneous  use  have  been  provided.  Despite  this  short-coming,  the  benefit-risk  ratio  is  also 
considered positive for the SC use of SB309 in the chemotherapy-associated anaemia indication based 
on  the  following  considerations.  In  terms  of  efficacy,  IV  administered  SB309  and  Erypo  have  been 
shown to have similar PK profiles as well as similar efficacy in correcting anaemia and maintaining 
Hb levels in patients with renal anaemia.  Based on this similarity for the IV route, the demonstration 
of similar PK profiles, particularly bioavailability, for the SC route of administration suggests similar 
efficacy  also  for  SC  use.  The  comparison  of  the  efficacy  data  from  the  chemotherapy-associated 
anaemia  trial  with  published  data  are  in  line  with  this  conclusion.  The  safety  profiles  of  IV 
administered SB309 and Erypo have been shown to be generally similar. In addition, no new safety 
concern  (including  immunogenicity)  emerged  from  the  chemotherapy-associated  anaemia  study.  In 
fact,  the  AE  incidences  in  the  chemotherapy-associated  anaemia  trial,  particularly  the  incidence  of 
clinically  significant  thrombotic  events,  were  similar  or  lower  than  those  published  for  epoetin  alfa. 
Based  on  these  considerations  the  chemotherapy-associated  anaemia  indication  applied  for  is 
considered approvable. 
The benefit-risk ratio is not considered positive for the major orthopaedic surgery indication because 
immunogenicity  of  SC  administered  SB309 has  not  been  assessed  in  immunocompetent  individuals. 
Antibody  data  cannot  be  extrapolated  from  IV  to  SC  use  or  from  immunocompromised  to 
immunocompetent individuals. The applicant has withdrawn this indication. 
Although  there  are  no  remaining  major  issues  there  are  still  some  safety  concerns  with  respect  to 
increased SAEs in the Central Nervous System SOC with SB309 both in the correction study as well 
as the follow up study. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
(cid:131) 
investigate further some of the safety concerns  
the following additional risk minimisation activities were required: see details in Annex II of the 
Product Information 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of SB309 in the treatment of: 
anaemia associated with chronic renal failure in adult and paediatric patients on haemodialysis 
and adult patients on peritoneal dialysis (IV use) 
severe  anaemia of renal origin accompanied by clinical symptoms in adult patients with renal 
insufficiency not yet undergoing dialysis (IV use) 
anaemia and reduction of transfusion requirements in adult patients receiving chemotherapy for 
solid tumours, malignant lymphoma or multiple myeloma, and at risk of transfusion as assessed 
by the patient's general status  
Increasing the yield of autologous blood from patients in a pre-donation programme  
was  favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
42/42 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
