EMA/3834/2019 
EMEA/H/C/000760 
Silapo (epoetin zeta) 
An overview of Silapo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Silapo and what is it used for? 
Silapo is a medicine used for the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to treat anaemia (low red blood cell counts) that is causing symptoms in patients with chronic renal 
failure (long-term, decreasing ability of the kidneys to work properly) or other kidney problems; 
to treat anaemia in adults receiving chemotherapy to treat certain types of cancer and to reduce 
the need for blood transfusions; 
to increase the amount of blood that patients with moderate anaemia can self-donate before 
surgery, so that their own blood can be given back to them during or after surgery; 
to reduce the need for blood transfusions in adults with moderate anaemia who are about to have 
major orthopaedic (bone) surgery, such as hip surgery. It is used in patients with normal blood 
iron levels who could experience complications from a blood transfusion, if they do not donate their 
own blood before surgery and are expected to lose 900 to 1,800 ml of blood; 
to treat anaemia in adults with myelodysplastic syndromes (conditions in which the production of 
healthy blood cells is defective). Silapo is used when patients are at low or intermediate risk of 
developing acute myeloid leukaemia and have low levels of the natural hormone erythropoietin. 
Silapo contains the active substance epoetin zeta and is a ‘biosimilar’ medicine. This means that Silapo 
is highly similar to another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in 
the EU. The reference medicine for Silapo is Eprex/Erypo, which contains epoetin alfa. For more 
information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
How is Silapo used? 
Silapo can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started under the supervision of 
a doctor who has experience in the management of patients with the conditions that Silapo is approved 
for. The iron levels of all patients should be checked and iron supplements given if necessary. 
Silapo is available in pre-filled syringes and is injected either into a vein or under the skin, depending 
on the condition for which the patient is being treated. The injection under the skin may be given by 
the patient or a carer if they have been trained. The dose, how often it is given and how long it is used 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
for also depend on why Silapo is being used and on the patient’s bodyweight, and are adjusted 
according to how well the medicine is working. 
For patients with kidney failure, myelodysplastic syndromes or who are receiving chemotherapy, 
haemoglobin levels should remain within the recommended range. Haemoglobin is the protein in red 
blood cells that carries oxygen around the body. For these patients, the lowest dose that controls the 
symptoms well enough should be used. 
For more information about using Silapo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Silapo work? 
The active substance in Silapo, epoetin zeta, is a copy of a hormone called erythropoietin, and works in 
the same way as the natural hormone to stimulate the production of red blood cells in the bone 
marrow. Erythropoietin is produced by the kidneys. In patients receiving chemotherapy or with kidney 
problems, anaemia can be caused by a lack of erythropoietin, or by the body not responding well 
enough to natural erythropoietin. In these cases, epoetin zeta is used to increase red blood cell counts. 
Epoetin zeta is also used before surgery to increase the number of red blood cells and help minimise 
the consequences of blood loss. 
What benefits of Silapo have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Silapo with Eprex/Erypo have shown that the active substance in Silapo 
is highly similar to that in Eprex/Erypo in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have 
also shown that giving Silapo produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving 
Eprex/Erypo. 
Silapo, injected into a vein, was as effective as Eprex/Erypo in correcting and maintaining red blood 
cell counts in two main studies involving 922 patients who had anaemia associated with chronic renal 
failure requiring haemodialysis (a procedure for removing waste products from the blood). The first 
study compared the effects of Silapo with those of Eprex/Erypo in correcting red blood cell counts in 
609 patients over 24 weeks. During the last 4 weeks of the study haemoglobin levels were around 
11.6 g/dl, having risen from around 8.0 g/dl before treatment. The second study compared the effects 
of Silapo with those of Eprex/Erypo in maintaining red blood cell counts in 313 patients. All of the 
patients in the second study had received treatment with Eprex/Erypo for at least 3 months before 
they were either switched to Silapo or remained on Eprex/Erypo for 12 weeks. After that, the two 
groups switched to receiving the other medicine for a further 12 weeks. Haemoglobin levels were 
maintained at around 11.4 g/dl in both groups. 
The company also presented the results of two studies showing that Silapo injected under the skin is 
as effective as other epoetin medicines: one study involved 261 cancer patients receiving 
chemotherapy, and the other compared Silapo with Eprex/Erypo in 462 patients with anaemia caused 
by kidney problems. 
Because Silapo is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of epoetin carried out 
with Eprex/Erypo do not all need to be repeated for Silapo. 
What are the risks associated with Silapo? 
The most common side effects with Silapo (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) are headache 
and increased blood pressure. For the full list of side effects of Silapo, see the package leaflet. 
Silapo must not be used in the following groups:  
Silapo (epoetin zeta)  
EMA/3834/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
patients who have developed pure red cell aplasia (reduced or stopped red blood cell production) 
after treatment with any epoetin medicine;  
patients with hypertension (high blood pressure) that is not controlled;  
patients who cannot receive medicines to prevent blood clots; 
patients about to have surgery, including major orthopaedic surgery, and who have severe 
cardiovascular (heart and blood vessel) problems including a recent heart attack or stroke. 
Why is Silapo authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Silapo has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Eprex/Erypo and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies have shown that the effects of the 
medicine are equivalent to those of Eprex/Erypo in increasing and maintaining blood cell counts in 
patients with chronic kidney failure or undergoing chemotherapy. All these data were considered 
sufficient to conclude that Silapo will behave in the same way as Eprex/Erypo in terms of effectiveness 
and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore the Agency’s view was that, as for Eprex/Erypo, the benefit 
of Silapo outweighs the identified risk and it can be authorised. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Silapo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Silapo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Silapo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Silapo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Silapo: 
Silapo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 December 2007. 
Further information on Silapo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/Silapo 
This summary was last updated in 02-2019.  
Silapo (epoetin zeta)  
EMA/3834/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
