European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref.: EMA/793633/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Sildenafil ratiopharm 
International Nonproprietary Name: sildenafil 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/001080 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 9 
Clinical Aspects ..................................................................................................................... 10 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 14 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ...................................... 15 
2/16 
 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  ratiopharm  GmbH  submitted  on  7 October 2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Sildenafil  ratiopharm,  in  accordance 
with  the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004 
under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Viagra 25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg film-
coated tablet 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Pfizer Limited 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 14 September 1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/077/002-004, 006-008, 010-019 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Viagra 100 mg film-coated tablet 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Pfizer Limited 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 14 September 1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/077/010-012, 0015 
(cid:131)  Bioavailability study number: SLI-P7-116 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Philippe Lechat  
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
3/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 7 October 2008.  
The procedure started on 22 October 2008. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
9 January 2009.  
During  the  meeting  on  16-19 February 2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on  20 February 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
15 May 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  3 July 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20-23 July 2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and by the applicant. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  list  of  outstanding  issues  on 
21 September 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on  7 October 2009 and amendment to the assessment 
on 15 October 2009.  
During  the  meeting  on  19-22 October 2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Sildenafil ratiopharm on 22 October 2009. The applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 19 October 2009. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 23 December 2009. 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Sildenafil  ratiopharm  25 mg,  50 mg,  100 mg  film-coated  tablet  is  a  generic  medicinal  product 
containing sildenafil as an active substance. The application was submitted under the Article 10(1) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC i.e. generic application referring to a reference medicinal product. 
Sildenafil ratiopharm contains the same active substance as the reference medicinal product (Viagra) -
sildenafil in form of the citrate salt. 
Sildenafil is potent inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) specific phosphodiesterase 
(PDE5). During natural erection, nitric oxide (NO) is released and this triggers the synthesis of cGMP 
which, in turn, relaxes the corpora cavernosa (a key point in the erection process). PDE5 present in the 
corpus  cavernosum  breaks  down  cGMP,  sildenafil  prevents  the  breakdown  of  cGMP  and,  thus 
enhances the induced erectile response. Sildenafil has a high potency and selectivity for PDE5 and via 
smooth muscle relaxation can induce a rise in intracavernosal pressure during stimulation. 
The safety and efficacy profile of sildenafil has been demonstrated in several clinical trials details of 
which  can  be  found  in  the  EPAR  for  Viagra.  In  addition,  there  is  a  long-term  post-marketing 
experience contributing to the knowledge of the use of this product. Since this application is a generic 
application  referring  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  Viagra,  summary  of  the  clinical  data  of 
4/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sildenafil  citrate  is  available  and  no  new  clinical  studies  regarding  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics 
and efficacy and safety have been conducted.  
The  indication  for  Sildenafil  ratiopharm  is  the  same  as  for  reference  medicinal  product.  Sildenafil 
ratiopharm  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  men  with  erectile  dysfunction,  which  is  the  inability  to 
achieve  or  maintain  a  penile  erection  sufficient  for  satisfactory  sexual  performance.  In  order  for 
sildenafil to be effective, sexual stimulation is required. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Sildenafil  ratiopharm  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  25 mg,  50 mg  or  100 mg  of 
sildenafil  (active  substance).  The  active  substance  is  in  form  of  citrate  salt.  Excipients  used  in  the 
preparation  of  Sildenafil  ratiopharm  are  well  known  excipients  used  in  tablets  preparations  such  as 
microcrystalline  cellulose,  calcium  hydrogen  phosphate,  croscarmellose  sodium,  magnesium  stearate 
(present in the tablet core) and hypromellose, macrogol 6000 and Aqua Polish blue 060.16 composed 
of  hypromellose,  macrogol  6000,  talc,  titanium  dioxide,  iron  oxide  red,  indigo  carmine  aluminium 
lake, which are present in film-coating. 
Sildenafil  ratiopharm  film-coated  tablets  are  blue,  oval  with  edge  and  packed  in  polyvinylidene 
chloride/polyvinyl chloride/aluminium (PVdC/PVC/alu) blisters. 
Active Substance  
The active substance, sildenafil citrate, is chemically designated as 5-[2-Ethoxy-5-(4-methylpiperazin-
1-ylsulfonyl)phenyl]-1,6-dihydro-1-methyl-3-propylpyrazolo[4,3-d]pyrimidin-7-one  citrate;  1-{[3-
(6,7-Dihydro-1-methyl-7-oxo-3-propyl-1H-pyrazolo[4,3-d]pyrimidin-5-yl)-4-ethoxyphenyl]sulfonyl}-
4-methylpiperazone citrate and has the following structure: 
Sildenafil  citrate  is  a  white  to  off-white  crystalline  powder  soluble  in  DMF, acetic acid and slightly 
soluble in methanol. Solubility of sildenafil citrate is pH dependent and it decreases with increase of 
pH. pH ranges between 3.7 and 3.8  and the pKa from 8.2 to 9.6.  
Sildenafil  citrate  is  an  achiral  substance.  No  polymorphic  forms  of  sildenafil  citrate  have  been 
observed.  The  assessment  of  possible  polymorphism  was  performed  using  X-ray  powder  diffraction 
and supported by publicly available literature data. 
5/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Manufacture 
Information  about  manufacturing  process  has  been  provided  using  Active  Substance  Master  File 
(ASMF)  procedure  –  two  ASMFs  from  different  manufactures  have  been  proposed.  A  detailed 
description of the manufacturing process including process flow diagram and in process controls was 
provided  in  the  restricted  parts  of  the  ASMFs.  Critical  parameters  and  accompanying  in-process 
controls, to ensure quality of the final compound, have been defined.  
Confirmation  of  the  chemical  structure  of  sildenafil  citrate  was  provided  by  elemental  analysis 
(confirmation of the determined elementary composition), spectroscopic methods as FT-IR, NMR (1H-
NMR and  13C-NMR), mass spectrum and X-ray powder diffraction (XRD). X-ray diffraction studies 
confirmed  the  morphology  of  sildenafil  citrate.  Other  physico-chemical  data  such  as  UV  absorption 
spectra,  thermal  studies  (melting  range),  and  solubility  studies,  pH  of  water  solution,  dissociation 
constant and partition coefficient provided further supportive evidence of chemical structure. 
Potential impurities have been well discussed in relation to their origin and potential carry-over into 
the final drug substance, including potential for the formation of genotoxic impurities. 
• 
Specification 
The  drug  substance  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance,  clarity  and  colour  of  the  solution, 
identification (UV/IR and HPLC), citrates and their content, water content, melting point, residue on 
ignition,  sulphated  ash,  heavy  metals,  purity  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  particle  size  (laser  diffraction) 
and residual solvents (GC).  
A  detailed  description  for  all  analytical  methods  was  provided.  Full  method  validation  data  was 
provided  for  the  non-compendial  (in-house)  analytical  methods:  HPLC  methods  for  identification, 
assay, chromatographic purity and related substances and GC method for residual solvents. 
The  HPLC  methods  have  been  validated  for  specificity,  absorptivity  factor  (i.e.  RRF),  linearity  and 
range, limit of quantitation, limit of detection, accuracy, precision (system precision, method precision 
i.e.  repeatability,  intermediate  precision),  robustness,  solution  stability,  forced  degradation  and  peak 
purity.  
The GC method has been validated for specificity, linearity, limit of quantitation, limit of detection, 
accuracy,  precision  (method  precision  i.e.  repeatability,  intermediate  precision)  and  robustness  with 
regards to specified solvents. All acceptance criteria were in line with ICH recommended limits 
In general analytical methods proposed are suitable to control the quality of the drug substance. 
Data  on  three  consecutive  batches  of  sildenafil  citrate  manufactured  according  to  the  proposed 
manufacturing process as described in the relevant ASMFs was provided by the ASMF Holders. All 
batches  represented  full  scale  production  and  complied  with  the  requirements  in  the  drug  substance 
specification.  
• 
Stability 
Stability  studies  were  carried  out  according  to  ICH  guidelines  for  real  time  (25°C/60% RH), 
intermediate (30ºC/65%RH) and accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH). Data for several commercial 
scale  batches  were  given  with  60 months  real  time  and  intermediate  conditions,  and  6  months 
accelerated data. No trends were found at long-term and accelerated conditions for tested parameters.  
In addition forced degradation studies were performed. Results form this study proved that sildenafil 
citrate degrades under stress conditions (acidic and alkaline conditions, oxidation, UV irradiation, light 
and thermal treatment) to the known impurities. No unknown impurities were detected during stability 
testing. 
The stability studies confirmed the proposed re-test period. 
6/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical development 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  obtain  an  immediate  release  film-coated  tablet, 
containing  quantitatively  and  qualitatively  the  same  active  substance  as  the  reference  medicinal 
product and to be bioequivalent.   
Similarity  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  was  addressed  by  way  of  composition  comparisons, 
solubility and dissolution studies, and comparative impurity profiles.  
Composition  of  Sildenafil  ratiopharm  film-coated  tablets  is  qualitatively  similar  to  the  reference 
medicinal product. 
Solubility of sildenafil citrate was tested in buffered solutions over the physiological pH range 1.0 to 
7.5  as  this  information  was  relevant  for  the  design  of  the  dosage  form  in  terms  of  release  and 
resorption of the active substance, because with increasing pH, solubility decreases and a tendency of 
precipitation cannot be excluded in the gastrointestinal tract after dissolution.  
Similarity  between  two  products  was  also  shown  with  dissolution  testing.  Dissolution  studies  were 
carried out in line with the Ph Eur. Raw and graphical data showed comparable dissolution profiles of 
the product and the reference product in 3 tested media. In addition the influence of particle size of the 
active substance on the dissolution profile has been included in the development program. 
An  impurity  comparison  of  Sildenafil  ratiopharm  film-coated  tablets  and  the  reference  product  was 
undertaken and no differences in results obtained have been observed.  
The formulation development was performed including the development of two different formulations, 
a  pilot  study,  scale-up  batches  comprising  the  production  of  pilot  batches  with  two  different  active 
substance manufacturers and a pivotal bioequivalence study. 
During  the  development  program  it  has  been  proven  that  Sildenafil  ratiopharm  film-coated  tablets 
were bioequivalent with the reference product. A single-dose, randomised, two-period, two-sequence 
crossover  open-label  study  under  fasting  conditions  was  conducted  to  compare  the  relative 
bioavailability of Sildenafil ratiopharm 100 mg film-coated tablets to that of the reference medicinal 
product  –  Viagra  100 mg  film-coated  tablets.  Data  obtained  conclude  that  the  90%  confidence 
intervals  were  within  the  acceptance  range  for  both,  sildenafil  and  its  major  metabolite.  Results 
therefore show the two products to be bioequivalent under fasted conditions. 
The bioequivalence study was performed with the highest strength (100 mg film-coated tablets) and 
for  the  lower  strengths  (50 mg  and  25  mg)  a  biowaiver  was  requested.  This  request  was  found 
acceptable  since  all  criteria  for  a  biowaiver  listed  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioavailability and Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) were fulfilled, namely:  
1.  The pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process; 
2.  The drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic dose range; 
3.  The qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same; 
4.  The ratio between amounts of the active substance and excipients is the same; 
5.  The dissolution profiles are similar under identical conditions for the additional strength and the 
strength of the batch used in the bioequivalence study. 
The drug product manufacturing process development was also performed. Details were provided for 
experimental batches manufactured to establish optimum manufacturing conditions.  
Roller  compaction  as  manufacturing  process  was  considered  to  be  the  granulation  method  of  first 
choice due to the general advantages of this granulation method in comparison to other processes e.g. 
high shear granulation or fluid bed granulation and due to company specific reasons.  
The  general  advantages  of  dry  granulation  (roller  compaction)  are  avoidance  of  interaction  between 
water  added  in  the  process  and  active  substance/excipients  and  possible  related  stability  issues, 
7/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
avoidance of a drying-process to remove the water added, thereby no increased product temperatures, 
and also savings of energy and time and high reproducibility and no scale-up problems in the case of 
modern roller compactors with integrated gap control, because larger masses to be produced are run on 
the  same  machine  by  simply  extending  the  process  duration.  As  a  consequence  the  aim  of  the 
manufacturing process development was to develop a dry granulation process. No critical issues could 
be  revealed  during  formulation  development,  scale-up  and  during  the  site  transfer  therefore  roller 
compaction was considered to be the granulation method of choice. 
• 
Adventitious Agents  
None of the excipients present in the formulation are of animal or human origin. Magnesium stearate 
used in the manufacturing process of the medicinal product is of vegetable origin. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  sufficiently  described  and  a  flow  diagram  with  detailed 
description of the manufacturing process has been provided.  
Briefly,  the  manufacturing  process  involves  (1) Blending  –  sildenafil  citrate  is  mixed  with  part  of 
excipients;  (2) Dry  granulation  –  the  active  substance  mixture is compacted and equalized; (3) Final 
blending – the granulate is mixed homogeneously with the remaining excipients; (4) Compression – 
the homogenized granulate is tabletted into tablets of the specified size; (5) Film-coating – the tablets 
cores are film coated; (6) Packaging. 
The critical steps in the manufacturing process have been identified. The sampling for product-related 
in-process controls is carried out during the tabletting process. 
At  the  time  of  submission  only  validation  results  for  several  pilot-scale  batches  for  each  strength 
manufactured at proposed manufacturing sites have been submitted. This is acceptable as according to 
CPMP/QWP/848/96, Note for Guidance on Process Validation a two stage approach when production 
scale  data  are  not  available,  can  be  applied.  First  evaluation  and  characterisation  of  the  pilot  scale 
batches  and  second  formal  validation  program  on  the  production  scale  batches.  In  addition  roller-
compaction is regarded as a standard manufacturing process. 
Also the applicant committed to perform validation on the first three production scale batches. 
• 
Product Specification 
The product specification is standard for tablets and contains tests with suitable limits for appearance, 
average mass, resistance to crushing, disintegration time, loss on drying, identity of sildenafil (HPLC), 
sildenafil  citrate  (UV) and citrate, identification of colorant (titanium dioxide and iron oxide), assay 
(HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (HPLC), purity (HPLC), in-vitro dissolution (with UV evaluation) 
and microbiological purity. 
Full details of all analytical methods have been provided. All non pharmacopoeial methods have been 
satisfactory validated. The HPLC method for identity, assay and purity test has been suitably validated 
with respect to specificity, precision, linearity, accuracy, detection limit, quantitation limit, robustness, 
stability of sample and standard solution. 
The in-vitro dissolution test has been validated for linearity (considering amounts expected for of all 
dosages),  accuracy,  selectivity  and  repeatability.  Robustness  test  considered  the  influence  of  the 
filters.  Sink conditions were demonstrated for the highest dosage up to 3 tablets/ vessel. 
Batch analysis data was provided for each strength on one laboratory scale batch, 4 pilot scale pilot 
scale batches manufactured at the development site and 2 commercial scale batches manufactured at 
the proposed manufacturing site. Batches met the proposed specification limits. Results showed that 
tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according to the finished product specifications. 
8/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  studies  were  carried  out  under  ICH  conditions  of  25ºC/60%RH  (long  term),  30ºC/65%RH 
(intermediate) and 40ºC/75%RH (accelerated). During the stability program a bracketing concept was 
applied to 50 mg strength since the tablets are dose linear. The 25 mg and 100 mg were tested at three 
recommended ICH conditions and all the packages intended for marketing were considered as well as 
both sources of the active substance. Five batches of each strength have been placed on stability, from 
which  four  batches  are  of  a  commercial  scale  size  and  one  of  a  pilot  scale.  Accelerated  and 
intermediate  testing  for  all  batches  has  been  finalised.  No  significant  changes  were  observed.  18 
months real-time stability data are available. The real-time stability data show no significant change 
over  the  time.  The  extrapolation  for  purpose  of  calculation  of  a  shelf-life  is  justified  by  the  data 
provided. 
In  addition  photostability  testing  was  performed  according  to  the  “Note  for  Guidance  on  the 
Photostability Testing of New Active Substances and Medicinal Products” (CPMP/ICH/279/95). The 
tablets  were  tested  outside  of  the  primary  packaging  material,  i.e.  in  an  open  petri  dish,  exposed 
alongside a dark control sample. 
The results from stability studies, including photostability testing, demonstrate that tablets are stable 
and no significant changes in tested parameters were observed during the storage. 
Based  on  the  stability  data  the  proposed  shelf-life  and  storage  conditions  as  defined  in  the  SPC  are 
acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact  on  the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and 
committed to resolve these as Follow-Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
This  application  is  made  in  accordance  with  Article  10(1)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  by 
Directive 2004/27/EC. The applicant is not required to provide the results of pre-clinical tests. Non-
clinical  testing  strategy  did  not  therefore  include  any  toxicological  or  pharmacological  studies 
performed by the applicant.  
The  non-clinical  overview  on  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  is  based  on 
literature  searches  and  adequate  scientific  literature  has  been  provided.  The  overview  justifies  why 
there  is  no  need  to  generate  new  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  data. 
There is thus no need for conducting tests on animals. 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. The introduction of sildenafil film-coated tablets 
manufactured  by  Ratiopharm  is  unlikely  to  result  in  any  significant  increase  in  the  combined  sales 
volumes  for  all  sildenafil  containing  products  and  the  exposure  of  the  environment  to  the  active 
substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
Discussion on Non-Clinical aspects 
There  are  no  non-clinical  objections  to  approve  Sildenafil  Ratiopharm  25,  50  and  100  mg  coated 
tablets. As mentioned in the Quality part of the report, potential impurities have been well discussed in 
relation to their origin and potential carry-over into the final drug substance, including potential for the 
9/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
formation  of  genotoxic  impurities  (triethyl  orthoformate),  and  these  are  being  clarified  as  a  part  of 
follow-up measures. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
This  application  concerns  a  marketing  authorization  under  the  centralised  procedure.  The  subject  of 
this application is sildenafil citrate film-coated tablets manufactured by ratiopharm, in three strengths 
25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg.   
This  application  is  made  in  accordance  with  Art  3(3)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  “A  generic 
medicinal  product  of  a  reference  medicinal  product  authorised  by  the  Community”  and  Art  10(1) 
“generic  application”  of  Directive  2001/83/EC.  The  reference  medicinal  product  is  Viagra  25mg, 
50mg,  100mg  film-coated  tablets  from  Pfizer Pharma  (EU/1/98/077/002-004;  EU/1/98/077/006-008; 
EU/1/98/077/010-019).  
Scientific advice was not sought for the development programme. For the clinical assessment the Note 
for Guidance on Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) in 
its  current  version  as  well  as  the  Questions  &  Answers  on  the  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
Guidelines (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006) are of particular relevance. 
The applicant submitted a bioequivalence (BE) study with the highest strength of 100 mg film-coated 
tablets;  a  biowaiver  for  the  lower  50  and  25 mg  strengths  was  accepted  in  line  with  the  Note  for 
Guidance (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  
The SmPC is in line with that of the reference product Viagra. 
GCP aspects 
The bioequivalence study provided in support of the application was performed by Clinical Research 
Organisation (CRO) in Canada. The clinical part of the study was conducted in compliance with Good 
Clinical Practice (GCP), as claimed by the sponsor. 
In accordance to Art 8(3)(ib) of the amended Directive, and Art 6.1 of the Regulation EC/726/2004, 
the applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials that were conducted outside the 
EU were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
Transferability of study results to other strengths 
The  applicant  submitted  a  Bioequivalence  study  with  the  highest  strength  (100  mg  tablets)  and 
requested biowaiver for the lower 50 and 25 mg strengths. This request was found acceptable since all 
criteria  for  a  biowaiver  listed  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) were fulfilled, namely:  
1. The pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process; 
2. The drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic dose range; 
3. The qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same; 
4. The ratio between amounts of the active substance and excipients is the same; 
5. The dissolution profiles are similar under identical conditions for the additional strength and the 
strength of the batch used in the bioequivalence study. 
In conclusion, the extrapolation of the results obtained for the 100 mg sildenafil film-coated tablets to 
the 50 mg and 25 mg film-coated tablets was deemed acceptable. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted 2 bioequivalence studies.  
10/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pilot study: Report n° SLI-P6-299 
- 
In  this  pilot  study  two  development  prototypes  were  tested  and  compared  to  the  brand  leader 
following a classical crossover three-way design. This study allowed the sponsor to select the adequate 
formulation that was further developed and tested in the pivotal study detailed below. The pilot study 
is not included in the present assessment report. 
Pivotal study: Report n° SLI-P6-116:  
- 
This  final  study  conducted  in  fifty-eight  healthy  male  subjects  under  fasting  conditions  is  analysed 
hereafter.  
Since this is a generic application no further clinical trials were required and the applicant performed 
none. Concerning clinical pharmacology, clinical efficacy and clinical safety, the applicant performed 
an adequate review of relevant literature. 
Pharmacokinetics  
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
The  study  was  designed  according  to  an  open-label,  randomised,  single-dose,  two-period,  two-
sequence crossover classical scheme. 
In each period, subjects were to arrive at least 10 hours before dosing and stay until after the 24-hour 
post-dose events. Subjects were instructed to avoid alcohol, and food or beverages containing xanthine 
for  58  hours  prior  to  dosing  and  during  each  study  protocol.  Subjects  were  also  instructed  to  avoid 
food  or  beverages  containing  grapefruit  for  7  days  prior  to  dosing  and  during  each  study  protocol. 
Subjects  who  were  light-smokers  were  requested  to  abstain  from  smoking  for  2  hours  prior  to  drug 
administration and until 4 hours after drug administration.  
In each period, subjects received a single oral 100 mg dose of sildenafil with 240 ml of water starting 
in  the  morning  of  Day  1.  The  bioequivalence  study  was  performed under fasting conditions (after a 
supervised  overnight  fast),  since  the  concomitant  food  intake  reduces  the  rate  of  absorption  of 
sildenafil  with  Tmax  being  delayed  by  approximately  60  minutes  and  Cmax  reduced  by  29% 
according to the SmPC of the reference product. Subjects were allowed to leave the clinical site after 
24-hour blood draw.  
A 7 day wash-out was used in the study. The terminal half-life of sildenafil is 3 to 5 hours; hence the 
washout period length is acceptable. 
A total of 18 blood samples were collected in each period at pre-dose and at 0.25, 0.333, 0.42, 0.58, 
0.75, 0.92, 1.08, 1.33, 1.67, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, and 24 hours post-dose. Blood samples were 
processed at 4°C afterwards and plasma samples were collected and stored at (-) 20°C and shipped for 
analysis. 
The clinical part of the bioequivalence study, the bioanalytical and statistical analysis were performed 
at different CROs located in Canada between 08/12/2007 and 10/01/2008.  
The  protocol  and  the  informed  consent  form  were  approved  by  an  institutional  review  board 
(ETHIPRO) on 15/11/2007. The final study report was signed in June 2008. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
Test and reference product used in the study were as follows 
Drug Code  
Formulation 
Test 
Sildenafil 100 mg Film-Coated 
Tablet 
Merckle GmbH, Germany for 
Reference 
Viagra® 100 mg Film-Coated 
Tablet 
Pfizer PGM, France  
Manufacturer 
11/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch No. 
Manufacturing Date 
Expiry Date 
Measured Content 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED  
Ratiopharm GmbH, Germany 
GE042807  
17/07/2007  
07/2008 (retest date) 
101.2% of label claim 
5169811DR2 
N/AV 
07/2010 
100.6 % of label claim 
58 male healthy subjects were enrolled in the study. The mean age was 32 (18-45), BMI ranged from 
19 to 29.9 kg/m2. The majority of subjects were White. Subjects were in good health as determined by 
medical history, physical examination, ECG, laboratory tests (haematology, biochemistry, urinalysis). 
Subjects  were  instructed  not  to  take  any  OTC  medication  for  the  7  days  prior  to  dosing,  any 
prescription medication for 14 days prior to dosing, enzyme modifying drugs for 28 days prior to Day 
1 and nitrates for 30 days prior to dosing and during the study. All the subjects met inclusion criteria 
including  negative  HIV,  Hepatitis  B  and  C  tests  as  well  as  negative  screening  for  ethyl  alcohol  and 
drug of abuse in urine.  
Of  the  total  of  58  volunteers  included  in  the  study  58  received  the  two  treatments  and  57  were 
included  in  the  statistical  analysis,  i.e.  33  subjects  in  the  first  group  (17  in  sequence  AB  and  16  in 
sequence BA) and 24 subjects in the second group (12 in each of the two sequences). One subject was 
withdrawn following dosing of period 2 for abnormal stools. 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
The  analytical  part  of  the  study  was  conducted  at  bioanalytical  facility  of  a  CRO  in  Canada.  The 
analysis  of  plasma  samples  of  sildenafil  and  N-desmethyl-sildenafil  was  performed  using  the  HPLC 
equipment with MS-MS tandem detection. 
A  detailed  description  of  the  operative  procedures  was  provided.  The  validation  of  the  method  and 
extended stability evaluation was performed and a detailed description of the validation process was 
provided.  
In conclusion, the analytical method allowed a suitable investigation of the bioavailability of sildenafil 
after oral administration. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
Relevant  PK  parameters  of  sildenafil  and  its  N-desmethyl  metabolite  were  estimated  using  a  non 
compartmental analysis (NCA). 
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf,  Cmax  and  Tmax  were  either  observed  or 
calculated.  AUC  was  calculated  using  the  trapezoidal  rule.  Cmax  and  Tmax  were  directly estimated 
from the individual concentrations versus time profiles. Additional PK parameters assessed included 
Kel, T1/2el and intra-subject coefficient of variation (CV). 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
The pharmacokinetic analysis was performed at the Department of biometry and statistics of the CRO 
in  Canada.  Parametric  ANOVA  on  ln-transformed  AUC0-t,  AUC0-∞  and  Cmax  was  carried  out  for 
both  analytes:  Sildenafil  and  its  N-desmethyl  metabolite.  The  statistical  model  included  sequence, 
period  and  treatment  factors  as  fixed  effects  and  subject  within  sequence  as  a  random  effect. 
According to the protocol the bioequivalence could be concluded if the least square means ratio with 
corresponding  90%  CI  between  the  test  and  reference  product  for  ln-transformed  AUC0-t,  AUC0-∞ 
and  Cmax  fell  within  80-125%  range.  The  parameter  Tmax  was  analysed  using  a  non-parametric 
approach. 
• 
Results 
12/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetic variables of sildenafil and N-desmethyl sildenafil, the test and reference product, 
are shown in the tables below. 
Sildenafil: Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC and Cmax: arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax: median, range) 
Treatment 
AUC0-t 
pg*h/ml 
AUC0-∞ 
pg*h/ml 
Cmax 
pg/ml 
1492.8 
(683.2) 
1500.9 
(643.8) 
[93; 
104]% 
98.7 % 
17.8% 
Test 
(S.D.) 
Reference 
(S.D.) 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
Point estimate 
441.4 
(186.8) 
456.2 
(233.7) 
[90; 
108]% 
98.6 % 
29.5% 
Intra-subject CV (%) 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
*log-transformed values 
1510.5 
(700.9) 
1516.3 
(651.8) 
[93; 
104]% 
98.8 % 
17.7% 
time for maximum concentration : mediane, min and max  
tmax 
h 
0.92 
(0.42-4) 
0.667 
(0.42-3) 
ns 
For sildenafil, the mean Kel was 0.2108 hours-1 for the test formulation and 0.2041 hours-1 for the 
reference product. The mean T1/2el value for the test and reference product was 3.66 hours and 3.83 
hours, respectively. The intra-subject coefficient of variation was 29.5%, 17.8%, and 17.7% for Cmax, 
AUC0-t and AUC0-inf, respectively.  
N-desmethyl sildenafil: Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC and Cmax: arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax: 
median, range) 
Treatment 
AUC0-t 
ng*h/ml 
453.6 
Test 
(190.5) 
(S.D.) 
465.2 
Reference 
(192.2) 
(S.D.) 
[94; 102]% 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
97.8% 
Point estimate 
12.3% 
Intra-subject CV (%) 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
*log-transformed values 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
136.9 
(72.1) 
134 
(65.8) 
[93; 110]% 
100.9% 
27% 
AUC0-∞ 
ng*h/ml 
465.2 
(195.9) 
477.6 
(198.4) 
[94; 101]% 
97.8% 
11.9% 
time for maximum concentration : mediane, min and max  
tmax 
h 
0.92 
(0.42-4) 
0.92 
(0.58-4) 
For  N-desmethyl  sildenafil,  the  mean  Kel  was  0.1670  hours-1  for  the  test  formulation  and  0.1588 
hours-1 for the reference product. The mean T1/2el value for the test and reference product was 4.40 
hours  and  4.61  hours,  respectively.  The  intra-subject  coefficient  of  variation  was  27%,  12.3%  and 
11.9% for Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf, respectively. 
CLINICAL SAFETY 
The safety analysis includes the fifty-eight (58) subjects who entered the study and received at least 
one  of  the  treatments.  Thirty-six  (36)  subjects  participating  in  the  trial  reported  adverse  events 
throughout the course of this study. The maximal intensity reported for these events ranged from mild 
to severe. None of these events were considered to be serious. One adverse event (injury) required the 
use of concomitant medication (acetaminophen). No subject was withdrawn from the study because of 
an event. 
13/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion,  both  formulations  were  well  tolerated  with  no  major  adverse  events  and  no  relevant 
differences in safety profile were observed between the preparations. 
• 
Conclusions 
In conclusion, the conventional CI for ln-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax for sildenafil and 
N-desmethyl  sildenafil  were  within  the  acceptance  range.  No  significant  difference  in  Tmax  was 
evidenced  by  the  non-parametric  test.  Therefore,  this  study  was  considered  to  have  met  the 
bioequivalence criteria as defined by the study protocol since all 90% confidence intervals were within 
the acceptance range for both, sildenafil and its major metabolite. 
Protocol  deviations  (mainly  blood  sampling  time  deviation)  were  judged  to  have  no  significant 
influence on bioequivalence assessment. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No  new  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  presented  and  no  such  studies  are  required  for  this 
application. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131) 
PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
(cid:131) 
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before 
the product is placed on the market. 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  as  described  in  version  2.2  dated 
October 2007 presented in Module 1.8.1. of the Marketing Authorisation Application, is in place and 
functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
(cid:131) 
Risk Management Plan 
Risk  Management  Plan  has  not  been  submitted.  The  application  is  based  on  a  reference  medicinal 
product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring  specific  risk  minimization  activities  have  been 
identified. 
14/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
To  support  the  application,  2  bioequivalence  studies  were  submitted:  the  pivotal  study  conducted  in 
fifty-eight  healthy  volunteers  with  the  highest  strength  of  sildenafil,  i.e.  100  mg,  and  a  pilot  study 
performed in order to select the adequate formulation to be further developed and tested in the pivotal 
study.  
All 58 subjects enrolled in the pivotal study received the two treatments and 57 were included in the 
statistical  analysis.  As  claimed  by  the  applicant  the  exclusion  of  the  subject  was  decided  before  the 
conduct of the analytical phase of the study, hence the CHMP has considered the subsequent statistical 
analysis to be valid. 
The  bioequivalence  study  was  performed  under  appropriate  conditions  and  in  line  with  applicable 
guidelines. 
The  results  of  the  bioequivalence  study  showed  that  the  conventional  confidence  intervals  for  ln-
transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax for sildenafil and N-desmethyl sildenafil were within the 
acceptance range of 80-125%. No significant difference in Tmax was evidenced by the non-parametric 
test. Therefore, based on the available data it was concluded that bioequivalence of the two products 
had been demonstrated. 
The  extrapolation of the bioequivalence study results obtained for the 100 mg sildenafil film-coated 
tablets  to  the  50  mg  and  25  mg  film-coated  tablets  was  deemed  acceptable  since  all  criteria  for  a 
biowaiver listed in the applicable guidance were fulfilled. 
The  adverse  events  observed  in  the  study  were  graded  mild  to  severe  and  were  comparable  to  the 
originator. None of the events were considered serious. One adverse event (injury) required the use of 
concomitant medication.  
The safety concerns with the use of sildenafil have been addressed in the SmPC with the inclusion of 
appropriate warnings, precautions, and contraindications, and are in line with the reference product. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
This  application  is  made  in  accordance  with  Art  3(3)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  “A  generic 
medicinal  product  of  a  reference  medicinal  product  authorised  by  the  Community”  and  Art  10(1) 
“generic application” of Directive 2001/83/EC. The reference medicinal product is Viagra 25 mg, 50 
mg,  100  mg  film-coated  tablets.  According  to  the  legal  basis  no  non-clinical  studies  were  required. 
The applicant provided an appropriate non-clinical overview of sildenafil based on scientific literature. 
Moreover,  no  additional  clinical  trials  were  required  except  for  bioequivalence  studies.  The  clinical 
overview  provided  an  adequate  summary  of  clinical  data  for  sildenafil.  The  results  of  the 
bioequivalence  study  demonstrated  the  bioequivalence  of  100  mg  film-coated  tablet  of  Sildenafil 
Ratiopharm  and  the  reference  product,  Viagra  100  mg  film-coated  tablet.  The  extrapolation  of  the 
study  results  to  lower  strengths  of  sildenafil,  i.e.  50  mg  and  25  mg,  was  deemed  acceptable.  The 
adverse events in the bioequivalence study were comparable to the reference product and no serious 
adverse events were observed. 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data  and  the  bioequivalence  has 
been shown. A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the originator can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
15/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
ratio of Sildenafil ratiopharm in the treatment of men with erectile dysfunction, which is the inability 
to achieve or maintain a penile erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance was favourable 
and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
16/16 
