European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.ref: EMEA/776768/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Sildenafil TEVA 
International Nonproprietary Name: sildenafil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001073 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................................... 3 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 7 
Clinical Aspects ....................................................................................................................... 8 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 12 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation...................................... 13 
2/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  submitted  on  1  October  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Sildenafil Teva, in accordance with the 
centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  under 
Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC . 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Viagra 25 mg , 50 mg, 100 mg film-coated 
tablets  
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Pfizer Limited, United Kingdom 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 14 September 1998 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
(cid:131) 
(Community) Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/077/002-004, EU/1/98/077/013;  
EU/1/98/077/006-008, EU/1/98/077/014; EU/1/98/077/010-012, EU/1/98/077/015 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Viagra 100 mg film-coated tablets 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Pfizer Limited, United Kingdom 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 14 September 1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  Bioavailability study number: 2008-1683 
(Community) Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/077/010 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Dr. Prieto Yerro. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 1 October 2008.  
The procedure started on 22 October 2008. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 January 
2009 ). 
During the meeting on 16 – 19 February 2009, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 19 February 2009). 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 May 
2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 6 July 2009.  
3/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20  –  23  July  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of outstanding issues on 
24 July 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 09 September 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  21  -  24  September  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Sildenafil Teva on 24 September 2009.  
4/13 
© EMEA 2009 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
The  product  is  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  sildenafil  as  sildenafil  citrate  as  active 
substance. 
The reference medicinal product is Viagra 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets. 
Sildenafil is an inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) specific phosphodiesterase 
(PDE5). During natural erection, nitric oxide (NO) is released and this triggers the synthesis of cGMP 
which, in turn, relaxes the corpora cavernosa (a key point in the erection process). PDE5 present in 
the corpus cavernosum breaks down cGMP, sildenafil prevents the breakdown of cGMP and, thus 
enhances the induced erectile response. 
The safety and efficacy profile of sildenafil has been demonstrated in several clinical trials details of 
which  can  be  found  in  the  EPAR  for  Viagra.  In  addition,  there  is  a  long-term  post-marketing 
experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Since this application is a 
generic application referring to the reference medicinal product Viagra, summary of the clinical data 
of  sildenafil  citrate 
is  available  and  no  new  clinical  studies  regarding  pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and efficacy and safety have been conducted with sildenafil citrate.  
The indication proposed for Sildenafil Teva is the same as the reference medicinal product.   
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The product is presented as film coated tablets containing 25, 50 and 100 mg of sildenafil citrate as 
active substance. 
Other ingredients are: 
Tablet  core:  microcrystalline  cellulose,  calcium  hydrogen  phosphate  anhydrous,  croscarmellose 
sodium, magnesium stearate. 
Film-coating:  Poly  vinyl  alcohol,  titanium  dioxide  (E171),  macrogol  3350,  talc,  indigo  carmine 
aluminium lake (E132). 
The film coated tablets are packed in blisters of PVC/ Al foil blisters and PVC/Aluminium perforated 
unit dose blisters. 
Active Substance  
Sildenafil citrate is a white to off-white, crystalline powder. Sildenafil citrate has the chemical name 
1-{4-ethoxy-3-(6,7-dihydro-1-methyl-7-oxo-3-propyl-1H-pyrazol[4,3-d]pyrimidin-5-
yl]phenylsulfonyl]-4-methylpiperazine citrate. It does not show polymorphism or enantiomerism.  
The  solubility  of  sildenafil  citrate  in  water  has  been  determinate  as  being  3.5  mg/ml.  Solubility 
determinations in various buffers showed a maximum solubility of approximately 24 mg/ml at pH 2.0.  
Sildenafil  citrate  is  designated  as  a  class  1  drug  substance  according  to  BCS  classification:  highly 
soluble and highly permeable. 
• 
Manufacture 
It  is  manufactured  in  2  chemicals  steps,  in  accordance  with  Good  Manufacturing  Practices.  The 
information on the manufacturing process is provided in an ASMF.  
5/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adequate  In-Process  Controls  are  applied  during  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance.  The 
specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
• 
Specification 
The  specifications  of  the  active  substance  include  description,  identification,  water,  sulphated  ash, 
heavy metals, assay, chromatographic purity, residual solvents, particle size and bulk density. 
Batch  analysis  data  (n=3)  of  the  active  substance  are  provided.  The  results  are  within  the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
• 
Stability 
Seven batches of the active substance were put on long-term (25°C/60%RH) for up 9, 18, 24 and 48 
months,  and  five  batches  under  accelerated  (40°C/75%RH)  for  up  6  months  stability  testing  ICH 
conditions.  Photostability  test  following  ICH  guidelines  Q1B  was  performed  on  two  batches.  The 
following parameters were tested: appearance, water, content and related substances of sildenafil and 
content of citric acid.  The stability results justify the proposed retest period. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to obtain an immediate-release tablet containing the 
same active substance as the reference medicinal product, and with the same bioavailability. 
In  order  to  demonstrate  the  essential  similarity  with  the  reference  medicinal  product,  comparative 
studies  on  the  composition,  dissolution  and  impurity  profile  were  performed.  A  direct  compression 
with  a  non-micronized  active  substance  was  selected  as  manufacturing  process  because  of  the 
improved  flow  of  the  blend  and  the  tablet  compressibility.  The  compatibility  of  the  excipients  is 
demonstrated by means of the stability data. 
The choice and function of the excipients in the formulation was provided, the tablets cores contain 
cellulose microcrystalline and calcium hydrogen phosphate that are used as diluents, croscaromellose 
sodium as disintegrant and magnesium stearate as lubricant. The coating employs an aqueous 
suspension of Opadry Blue that contains polyvinyl alcohol-part hydrolyzed, lactose, macrogol/PEG, 
titanium dioxide, talc, blue indigo carmine and aluminium lake. 
The excipients used in the formulation are: microcrystalline cellulose (filler/binder), calcium 
hydrogen phosphate anhydrous (filler/binder), croscarmellose sodium (disintegrant), magnesium 
stearate (lubricant) and film coat (poly vinyl alcohol, titanium dioxide, macrogol 3350, talc, indigo 
carmine aluminium lake). 
Blister PVC with aluminium foil have been selected in order to provide a good protection of the 
tablets. The components of the packaging are standard pharmaceutical grade material and its selection 
is supported by the results of stability study. Detail descriptions of the packaging material were 
provided. Specifications and test method summaries are provided for the individual packaging 
components. 
6/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  dry  compression  method.  The  process  comprises  the 
following steps: mixing, compression and coating. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing process.  
The batch analysis data show that the tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according to the 
agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation 
• 
Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  description,  identification  (UV, 
HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  content  (HPLC),  water  content  (Ph  Eur),  dissolution  (UV), 
degradants (HPLC), identity for Titanium Dioxide, identity for blue dye, microbiological quality (Ph 
Eur).  
Batch analysis results (n=3) confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the 
process is under control. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Three  production  scale  batches  of  the  finished  product  (25,  50  and  100  mg)  were put on long-term 
(25°C/60%RH) for up 12 months, and accelerated (40°C/75%RH) for up 6 months stability testing in 
accordance with ICHQ1A guideline. The specifications and analytical procedures are the same as for 
the release analysis.  
The results support the shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. At the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
This application is made in accordance with Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended by 
Directive 2004/27/EC. The applicant is not required to provide the results of pre-clinical tests. 
Therefore, non-clinical testing strategy did not include any toxicological or pharmacological studies 
performed by the applicant.  
The non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology is based on 
literature searches and adequate scientific literature has been provided. The overview justifies why 
there is no need to generate new non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. 
There is thus no need for conducting tests on animals. 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. The introduction of sildenafil film-coated tablets 
manufactured by Teva is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes 
for all sildenafil containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. 
Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
Discussion on Non-Clinical aspects 
There are no non-clinical objections to approve Sildenafil Teva 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated 
tablets. 
7/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
This application concerns a marketing authorization under the centralised procedure. The subject of 
this application is sildenafil citrate film-coated tablets manufactured by Teva, in three strengths 25 
mg, 50 mg, 100 mg.   
This application is made in accordance with Art 3(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 “A generic 
medicinal product of a reference medicinal product authorised by the Community” and Art 10(1) 
“generic application” of Directive 2001/83/EC. The reference medicinal product is Viagra 25 mg, 50 
mg, 100 mg film-coated tablets from Pfizer Pharma (EU/1/98/077/002-004; EU/1/98/077/006-008; 
EU/1/98/077/010-019).  
Scientific advice was not sought for the development programme. For the clinical assessment the Note 
for Guidance on Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) in 
its current version as well as the Questions & Answers on the Bioavailability and Bioequivalence 
Guidelines (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006) are of particular relevance. 
The applicant submitted a bioequivalence (BE) study with the highest strength of 100 mg film-coated 
tablets; a biowaiver for the lower 50 and 25 mg strengths was applied for (please see below) in line 
with the Note for Guidance (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  
The SmPC is in line with that of the reference product Viagra. 
GCP aspects 
The bioequivalence study provided in support of the application was performed by a contract research 
organisation based in Canada (CRO). The clinical part of the study was conducted in compliance with 
Good Clinical Practice (GCP), as claimed by the sponsor. 
In accordance to Art 8(3)(ib) of the amended Directive, and Art 6.1 of the Regulation EC/726/2004, 
the applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials that were conducted outside the 
EU were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted 1 bioequivalence study with the highest 
strength of 100 mg. This bioequivalence study was performed with healthy male volunteers under 
fasting conditions. 
Since this is a generic application no further clinical trials were required and the applicant performed 
none. Concerning clinical pharmacology, clinical efficacy and clinical safety, the applicant performed 
an adequate review of relevant literature.  
Pharmacokinetics  
•  Methods 
STUDY DESIGN: 
The study was an open-label, single-dose, two-period, two-sequence, two-treatment, comparative 
bioavailability study. 
8/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In each period, subjects were confined to the clinical facility from at least 10 hours before dosing and 
for at least 24 hours following drug administration. The following items were restricted for the 14 
days preceding drug administration until completion of the entire study: all medications (prescription 
or over-the-counter), herbal/natural products and nutritional supplements. Non-systemic, topically 
applied products (prescription or otherwise) or occasional use of common analgesics were allowed. 
Subjects abstained from ingesting products containing grapefruit, alcohol, caffeine, or xanthine for 48 
hours prior to each study period and until after the last sample from each period was collected. 
In each period, subjects received a single oral 100 mg dose of sildenafil with 240 ml of water starting 
in the morning of Day 1. The bioequivalence study was performed under fasting conditions (after a 
10-hour overnight fast), since the concomitant food intake reduces the rate of absorption of sildenafil 
with Tmax being delayed by approximately 60 minutes and Cmax reduced by 29% according to the 
SmPC of the reference product. Subjects were allowed to leave the clinical site after 24-hour blood 
draw.  
A 7 day wash-out was used in the study. The terminal half-life of sildenafil is 3 to 5 hours; hence the 
washout period length is acceptable. 
A total of 23 blood samples from 22 time points were collected in each period at pre-dose and at 0.25, 
0.5, 0.67, 0.83, 1, 1.25, 1.5, 1.75, 2, 2.33, 2.67, 3, 3.5, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, and 24 hours post-dose. 
Blood samples were processed at 4°C afterwards and plasma samples were collected and stored at (-) 
70°C and shipped for analysis. 
The protocol and the informed consent form were approved by an independent ethics committee. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS: 
Test and reference product used in the study were as follows: 
Drug Code  
Formulation 
Manufacturer 
Batch No. 
Manufacturing Date 
Expiry Date 
Measured Content 
Test 
Sildenafil 100 mg Film-Coated 
Tablet 
Novopharm Limited, Canada 
35303254 
14th February 2008 
NA 
101.3% of label claim 
Reference 
Viagra® 100 mg Film-Coated 
Tablet 
Pfizer Limited, UK 
7108603U 
NA 
10-2012 
100.4% of label claim 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
40 non-smoking, healthy male subjects were enrolled in the study. The mean age was 36 (20-49), BMI 
ranged from 22 to 29.5 kg/m2. Approximately half of the subjects were Caucasian, 20% were Black, 
20% Hispanic and 10% Asian. Subjects were in good health as determined by medical history, 
physical examination, ECG, laboratory tests (haematology, biochemistry, urinalysis). All the subjects 
met inclusion criteria including negative HIV, Hepatitis B and C tests as well as negative screening 
for ethyl alcohol and drug of abuse in urine.  
Of the total of 40 volunteers included in the study 38 received the two treatments and were included 
in the statistical analysis. Two subjects withdrew from the study prior to period 2 for personal 
reasons. 
ANALYTICAL METHODS: 
The analysis of plasma samples of sildenafil and N-desmethyl-sildenafil was performed using the 
HPLC equipment with tandem mass spectrometry detection (MS-MS). 
9/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A detailed description of the operative procedures was provided. The validation of the method and 
extended stability evaluation was performed and a detailed description of the validation process was 
provided.  
In conclusion, the analytical method allowed a suitable investigation of the bioavailability of 
sildenafil after oral administration. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES 
Standard PK parameters of sildenafil were estimated using a non compartmental analysis (NCA) and 
linear trapezoidal rule. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
 Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was applied to log-transformed AUCt, AUCinf, Cmax and to 
untransformed Kel and T1/2 parameters. The significance of the sequence, period, treatment, and 
subject within-sequence effects were tested. The least square means, the differences between the 
treatments least square means, and the corresponding standard errors of these differences were 
estimated for log-transformed AUCt, AUCinf, and Cmax parameters. Based on these statistics, the ratios 
of the geometric means for treatments and the corresponding 90% confidence intervals were 
calculated. Values for the Tmax parameter were analysed by a non-parametric approach. 
Results 
The pharmacokinetic variables of sildenafil, the test and reference product, are shown in the tables 
below. 
Sildenafil: Pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC and Cmax: arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax: median, range) 
*log-transformed values 
A statistically significant difference (α = 0.05) was detected between the two periods of the study in 
the analysis of Cmax (p=0.0245). All clinical procedures were under strict control and kept the same 
between the two periods of the study; hence, it is possible that the observed effect is a chance finding. 
The least-squares means of the formulation effect were adjusted for the period effect. Therefore, the 
final results are deemed not to be influenced by the statistically significant period effect noticed for 
Cmax. 
10/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Conclusions 
In conclusion, the conventional CI for log-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax for sildenafil were 
within the acceptance range. No significant difference in Tmax was evidenced by the non-parametric 
test. Therefore, this study was considered to have met the bioequivalence criteria as defined by the 
study protocol since all 90% confidence intervals were within the acceptance range for sildenafil. 
Protocol deviations (mainly blood sampling time deviation) were judged to have no significant 
influence on bioequivalence assessment.  
Transferability of study results to other strengths 
The applicant submitted a Bioequivalence study with the highest strength (100 mg tablets) and 
requested biowaiver for the lower 50 and 25 mg strengths in accordance with the Note for Guidance 
on the Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), section 5.4. 
To grant a waiver the following criteria should be fulfilled:  
1. The pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process; 
2. The drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic dose range; 
3. The qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same; 
4. The ratio between amounts of the active substance and excipients is the same; 
5. The dissolution profiles are similar under identical conditions for the additional strength and the 
strength of the batch used in the bioequivalence study. 
Not all these criteria were satisfied in the initial application; hence the CHMP requested the 
comparative in vitro dissolution profiles at pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8 and 50 rpm for the three different 
strengths of Sildenafil Teva (25, 50 and 100 mg). The dissolution profiles of all strengths in three 
media (pH 1.2, pH 4.5 and pH 6.0 due to low solubility of sildenafil at pH 6.8), were provided. They 
showed that the 25 and 100 mg strengths released 85% sildenafil within 15 minutes, whereas the 
dissolution profile was not similar between 50 and 100 mg strengths at pH 4.5. Consequently, the 
applicant was requested to investigate this issue further. In response the applicant provided data on re-
testing of dissolution profiles showing similar dissolution behaviour in pH 4.5 acetate buffer for the 
50 and 100 mg strengths.  
In conclusion, the extrapolation of the results obtained for the 100 mg sildenafil film-coated tablets to 
the 50 mg and 25 mg film-coated tablets was considered acceptable. 
CLINICAL SAFETY 
The safety analysis includes the thirty-eight (38) subjects who entered the study and received at least 
one of the treatments. There were 72 adverse events (AEs) involving 24 subjects in the study. All AEs 
were judged to be mild. There were no deaths or other serious or significant adverse events reported 
during this study. None of the AEs had a significant impact on the safety of the subjects or on the 
integrity of the study results. 
In conclusion, both formulations were well tolerated with no major adverse events and no relevant 
differences in safety profile were observed between the preparations.  
Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application.  
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.  
11/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131) 
PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
(cid:131) 
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before 
the product is placed on the market. 
(cid:131) 
Risk Management Plan 
The application for a generic medicinal product is based on a reference product for which no safety 
concern  requiring  specific  risk  minimisation  activities  has  been  identified.  Therefore,  a  risk 
management plan was not considered necessary for this generic medicinal product. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
To support the application, 1 bioequivalence study conducted in thirty-eight healthy volunteers with 
the highest strength of sildenafil, i.e. 100 mg was submitted.  
Of 40 subjects enrolled in the pivotal study 38 received the two treatments and were included in the 
statistical analysis. Two subjects withdrew from the study prior to period 2 for personal reasons. 
The bioequivalence study was performed under appropriate conditions and in line with applicable 
guidelines. 
The results of the bioequivalence study showed that the conventional confidence intervals for log-
transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax for sildenafil were within the acceptance range of 80-125%. 
No significant difference in Tmax was evidenced by the non-parametric test. The presence of a 
significant period effect in Cmax was considered irrelevant since the results were adjusted for this 
effect. Therefore, based on the available data it was concluded that bioequivalence of the two 
products had been demonstrated. 
The extrapolation of the bioequivalence study results obtained for the 100 mg sildenafil film-coated 
tablets to the 50 mg and 25 mg film-coated tablets was deemed acceptable following the results of 
additional dissolution studies demonstrating similar dissolution profiles of all tested strengths. 
Consequently, all criteria for a biowaiver listed in the applicable guidance were fulfilled. 
The adverse events observed in the study were graded mild and were comparable to the originator. 
None of the events were considered serious.  
The safety concerns with the use of sildenafil have been addressed in the SmPC with the inclusion of 
appropriate warnings, precautions, and contraindications, and are in line with the reference product. 
•  User consultation 
The results of user consultation provided indicates that the Package leaflet is well structured and 
organized, easy to understand and written in a comprehensible manner. The test shows that the leaflet 
is readable in patients /users are able to act upon the information that it contains. 
12/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
This application is made in accordance with Art 3(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 “A generic 
medicinal product of a reference medicinal product authorised by the Community” and Art 10(1) 
“generic application” of Directive 2001/83/EC. The reference medicinal product is Viagra 25mg, 
50mg, 100mg film-coated tablets. According to the legal basis no non-clinical studies were required. 
The applicant provided an appropriate non-clinical overview of sildenafil based on scientific 
literature. Moreover, no additional clinical trials were required except for bioequivalence studies. The 
clinical overview provided an adequate summary of clinical data for sildenafil. The results of the 
bioequivalence study demonstrated the bioequivalence of 100mg film-coated tablet of Sildenafil Teva 
and the reference product, Viagra 100mg film-coated tablet. The extrapolation of the study results to 
lower strengths of sildenafil, i.e. 50mg and 25mg, was deemed acceptable. The adverse events in the 
bioequivalence study were comparable to the reference product and no serious adverse events were 
observed. 
The application contains adequate quality, non clinical and clinical data and the bioequivalence has 
been shown. A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the originator can therefore be concluded.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  available  data,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of 
Sildenafil  Teva  25mg,  50mg  and  100mg  film-coated  tablets  in  the  treatment  of erectile dysfunction 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
13/13 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
