EMA/432244/2013 
EMEA/H/C/001080 
EPAR summary for the public 
Sildenafil ratiopahrm 
sildenafil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for sildenafil. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
sildenafil. 
What is sildenafil? 
Sildenafil ratiopharm is a medicine that contains the active substance sildenafil. It is available as 
tablets (25, 50 and 100 mg). 
Sildenafil ratiopharm is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Sildenafil ratiopharm is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Viagra. For more information 
on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is sildenafil used for? 
Sildenafil ratiopharm is used to treat adult men with erectile dysfunction (sometimes called 
impotence), when they cannot get or keep a sufficiently hard penis (erection) for satisfactory sexual 
activity. For Sildenafil ratiopharm to be effective, sexual stimulation is required. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is sildenafil used? 
The recommended dose of Sildenafil ratiopharm is 50 mg taken as needed about one hour before 
sexual activity. If Sildenafil ratiopharm is taken with food, the onset of activity may be delayed 
compared with taking Sildenafil ratiopharm without food. The dose may be increased to a maximum of 
100 mg or decreased to 25 mg depending on the effectiveness and side effects. Patients with reduced 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
liver function or severely reduced kidney function should start treatment with the 25-mg dose. The 
maximum recommended dosing frequency is one tablet per day. 
How does sildenafil work? 
The active ingredient in Sildenafil ratiopharm, sildenafil, belongs to a group of medicines called 
phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors. It works by blocking the phosphodiesterase enzyme, 
which normally breaks down a substance known as cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). During 
normal sexual stimulation, cGMP is produced in the penis, where it causes the muscle in the spongy 
tissue of the penis (the corpora cavernosa) to relax. This allows blood to flow into the corpora, 
producing the erection. By blocking the breakdown of cGMP, Sildenafil ratiopharm restores erectile 
function. Sexual stimulation is still needed to produce an erection. 
How has sildenafil been studied? 
Because Sildenafil ratiopharm is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Viagra. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of sildenafil? 
Because Sildenafil ratiopharm is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicine. 
Why has sildenafil been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Sildenafil ratiopharm has been shown 
to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Viagra. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Viagra, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Sildenafil 
ratiopharm be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about sildenafil 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Sildenafil ratiopharm on 23 December 2009.  
The full EPAR for Sildenafil ratiopharm can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with sildenafil, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2013. 
Sildenafil ratiopahrm  
EMA/432244/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
