EMA/482554/2014  
EMEA/H/C/001209 
EPAR summary for the public 
Silodyx 
silodosin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Silodyx. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Silodyx. 
What is Silodyx? 
Silodyx is a medicine that contains the active substance silodosin. It is available as capsules (4 and 8 
mg). 
What is Silodyx used for? 
Silodyx is used to treat the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH, an enlarged prostate 
gland) in adults. The prostate gland is an organ found at the base of the bladder in men. When 
enlarged, it can cause problems with the flow of urine. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Silodyx used? 
The recommended dose is one 8 mg capsule once a day. For men with moderate kidney problems, the 
starting dose should be 4 mg once a day. This may be increased to 8 mg once a day after a week. 
Silodyx is not recommended for patients with severe kidney problems. 
The capsules should be taken with food, preferably at the same time every day. They should be 
swallowed whole, preferably with a glass of water. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Silodyx work? 
The active substance in Silodyx, silodosin, is an alpha adrenoreceptor antagonist. It works by blocking 
receptors called alpha1A adrenoreceptors in the prostate gland, the bladder and the urethra (the tube 
that leads from the bladder to the outside of the body). When these receptors are activated, they 
cause the muscles controlling the flow of urine to contract. By blocking these receptors, silodosin 
allows these muscles to relax, making it easier to pass urine and relieving the symptoms of BPH. 
How has Silodyx been studied? 
The effects of Silodyx were first tested in experimental models before being studied in humans. Silodyx 
has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in three main studies involving over 1,800 men 
with BPH. One of these studies also compared Silodyx with tamsulosin (another medicine used for 
BPH). 
The main measure of effectiveness in all three studies was the improvement of the patients’ 
international prostate symptom score (IPSS) after 12 weeks of treatment. IPSS is a rating of the 
patient’s symptoms such as the inability to empty the bladder, and the urge to urinate repeatedly or to 
strain while urinating. The patients rated the severity of their symptoms themselves. 
What benefit has Silodyx shown during the studies? 
Silodyx was more effective than placebo and as effective as tamsulosin at reducing symptoms of BPH. 
In the two studies where Silodyx was compared only with placebo, the IPSS was around 21 points at 
the start of the study. After 12 weeks, it had fallen by around 6.4 points in the men who took Silodyx, 
and by around 3.5 points in the men who took placebo. In the third study, IPSS was around 19 points 
before treatment, falling by 7.0 points in the men who took Silodyx after 12 weeks, 6.7 points in the 
men who took tamsulosin and 4.7 points in the men who took placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Silodyx? 
The most common side effect with Silodyx (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is a reduction in the 
amount of semen released during ejaculation. Intra operative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) occurs in 
some patients taking alpha adrenoreceptor antagonists and may lead to complications during cataract 
surgery. IFIS is a condition that makes the iris floppy. For the full list of all side effects and restrictions 
with Silodyx, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Silodyx been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Silodyx’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Silodyx? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Silodyx is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Silodyx, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Silodyx  
EMA/482554/2014  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the company that makes Silodyx will ensure that eye surgeons are provided with 
information on IFIS in all Member States where the medicine will be marketed. 
Other information about Silodyx 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Silodyx on 29 January 2010.  
The full EPAR for Silodyx can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Silodyx, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2014.  
Silodyx  
EMA/482554/2014  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
