ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
SIMBRINZA 10 mg/mL + 2 mg/mL eye drops, suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
1 mL of suspension contains 10 mg of brinzolamide and 2 mg of brimonidine tartrate equivalent to 
1.3 mg of brimonidine. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each mL of suspension contains 0.03 mg of benzalkonium chloride. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Eye drops, suspension (eye drops). 
White-to-off-white uniform suspension, pH 6.5 (approximately). 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Decrease of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient IOP reduction(see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Use in adults, including the elderly 
The recommended dose is one drop of SIMBRINZA in the affected eye(s) two times daily. 
Missed dose 
If a dose is missed, treatment should be continued with the next dose as planned. 
Hepatic and/or renal impairment 
SIMBRINZA has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment and caution is therefore 
recommended in this population (see section 4.4). 
SIMBRINZA has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl <30 mL/min) or in 
patients with hyperchloraemic acidosis. Since the brinzolamide component of SIMBRINZA and its 
metabolite are excreted predominantly by the kidney, SIMBRINZA is contraindicated in such patients 
(see section 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of SIMBRINZA in children and adolescents aged 2 to 17 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
SIMBRINZA is contraindicated in neonates and infants aged less than 2 years in the decrease of 
elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom 
monotherapy provides insufficient IOP reduction because of safety concerns (see section 4.3). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
For ocular use. 
Patients should be instructed to shake the bottle well before use. 
When nasolacrimal occlusion is used and the eyelids are closed for 2 minutes, systemic absorption is 
reduced. This may result in a decrease in systemic side effects and an increase in local activity (see 
section 4.4). 
To prevent contamination of the dropper tip and solution, care must be taken not to touch the eyelids, 
surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper tip of the bottle. Patients should be instructed to 
keep the bottle tightly closed when not in use. 
SIMBRINZA may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic medicinal products to lower 
intraocular pressure. If more than one topical ophthalmic medicinal product is being used, the 
medicinal products must be administered at least 5 minutes apart. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance(s) or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to sulphonamides (see section 4.4). 
Patients receiving monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor therapy (see section 4.5). 
Patients on antidepressants which affect noradrenergic transmission (e.g. tricyclic antidepressants and 
mianserin) (see section 4.5). 
Patients with severe renal impairment (see section 4.4). 
Patients with hyperchloraemic acidosis. 
Neonates and infants under the age of 2 years (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
The medicinal product should not be injected. Patients should be instructed not to swallow 
SIMBRINZA. 
Ocular effects 
SIMBRINZA has not been studied in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma and its use is not 
recommended in these patients. 
The possible effect of brinzolamide on corneal endothelial function has not been investigated in 
patients with compromised corneas (particularly in patients with low endothelial cell count). 
Specifically, patients wearing contact lenses have not been studied and careful monitoring of these 
patients when using brinzolamide is recommended, since carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may affect 
corneal hydration and wearing contact lenses might increase the risk for the cornea (for further 
instructions on wearing contact lenses, see below under “Benzalkonium chloride”). Careful 
monitoring of patients with compromised corneas, such as patients with diabetes mellitus or corneal 
dystrophies, is recommended. 
Brimonidine tartrate may cause ocular allergic reactions. If allergic reactions are observed, treatment 
should be discontinued. Delayed ocular hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with 
brimonidine tartrate, with some reported to be associated with an increase in IOP. 
The potential effects following cessation of treatment with SIMBRINZA have not been studied. While 
the duration of IOP-lowering effect for SIMBRINZA has not been studied, the IOP-lowering effect of 
brinzolamide is expected to last for 5-7 days. The IOP-lowering effect of brimonidine may be longer. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Systemic effects 
SIMBRINZA contains brinzolamide, a sulphonamide inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase and, although 
administered topically, is absorbed systemically. The same types of adverse drug reactions that are 
attributable to sulphonamides may occur with topical administration, including Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). At the time of prescription, patients should be 
advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin reactions. If signs of serious 
reactions or hypersensitivity occur, SIMBRINZA should be withdrawn immediately. 
Cardiac disorders 
Following administration of SIMBRINZA, small decreases in blood pressure were observed in some 
patients. Caution is advised when using medicinal products such as antihypertensives and/or cardiac 
glycosides concomitantly with SIMBRINZA or in patients with severe or unstable and uncontrolled 
cardiovascular disease (see section 4.5). 
SIMBRINZA should be used with caution in patients with depression, cerebral or coronary 
insufficiency, Raynaud's phenomenon, orthostatic hypotension or thromboangiitis obliterans. 
Acid/base disturbances 
Acid-base disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. SIMBRINZA 
contains brinzolamide, an inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase, and although administered topically, is 
absorbed systemically. The same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to oral carbonic 
inhibitors (i.e. acid-base disturbances) may occur with topical administration (see section 4.5). 
SIMBRINZA should be used with caution in patients with risk of renal impairment because of the 
possible risk of metabolic acidosis. SIMBRINZA is contraindicated in patients with severe renal 
impairment (see section 4.3). 
Hepatic impairment 
SIMBRINZA has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment; caution should be used in 
treating such patients (see section 4.2). 
Mental alertness 
Oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may impair the ability to perform tasks requiring mental alertness 
and/or physical coordination in elderly patients. SIMBRINZA is absorbed systemically and this may 
therefore occur with topical administration (see section 4.7). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of SIMBRINZA in children and adolescents aged 2 to 17 years have not been 
established. Symptoms of brimonidine overdose (including loss of consciousness, hypotension, 
hypotonia, bradycardia, hypothermia, cyanosis and apnoea) have been reported in neonates and infants 
receiving brimonidine eye drops as part of medical treatment of congenital glaucoma. SIMBRINZA is 
therefore contraindicated in children below 2 years of age (see section 4.3). 
Treatment of children 2 years and above (especially those in the 2-7 age range and/or weighing 
<20 kg) is not recommended because of the potential for central nervous system-related side effects 
(see section 4.9). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benzalkonium chloride 
SIMBRINZA contains benzalkonium chloride which may cause eye irritation and is known to 
discolour soft contact lenses. Contact with soft contact lenses should be avoided. Patients must be 
instructed to remove contact lens prior to application of SIMBRINZA and wait at least 15 minutes 
before reinsertion. 
Benzalkonium chloride has been reported to cause eye irritation and symptoms of dry eyes and may 
affect the tear film and corneal surface. It should be used with caution in dry eye patients and in 
patients whose cornea may be compromised. Patients should be monitored in case of prolonged use. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No specific drug interaction studies have been performed with SIMBRINZA. 
SIMBRINZA is contraindicated in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors and in patients on 
antidepressants which affect noradrenergic transmission (e.g. tricyclic antidepressants and mianserin), 
(see section 4.3). Tricyclic antidepressants may blunt the ocular hypotensive response of 
SIMBRINZA. 
Caution is advised due to the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants 
(e.g. alcohol, barbiturates, opiates, sedatives or anaesthetics). 
No data on the level of circulating catecholamines after SIMBRINZA administration are available. 
However, caution is advised in patients taking medicinal products which can affect the metabolism 
and uptake of circulating amines (e.g. chlorpromazine, methylphenidate, reserpine, serotonin-
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors). 
Alpha adrenergic agonists (e.g. brimonidine tartrate), as a class, may reduce pulse and blood pressure. 
Following administration of SIMBRINZA, small decreases in blood pressure were observed in some 
patients. Caution is advised when using medicinal products such as antihypertensives and/or cardiac 
glycosides concomitantly with SIMBRINZA. 
Caution is advised when initiating (or changing the dose of) concomitant systemic medicinal products 
(irrespective of pharmaceutical form) which may interact with α-adrenergic agonists or interfere with 
their activity, i.e. agonists or antagonists of the adrenergic receptor (e.g. isoprenaline, prazosin). 
Brinzolamide is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and, although administered topically, is absorbed 
systemically. Acid-base disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. The 
potential for interactions must be considered in patients receiving SIMBRINZA. 
There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase 
inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and topical brinzolamide. The 
concomitant administration of SIMBRINZA and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not 
recommended. 
The cytochrome P-450 isozymes responsible for metabolism of brinzolamide include CYP3A4 (main), 
CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9. It is expected that inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, clotrimazole, ritonavir and troleandomycin will inhibit the metabolism of 
brinzolamide by CYP3A4. Caution is advised if CYP3A4 inhibitors are given concomitantly. 
However, accumulation of brinzolamide is unlikely as renal elimination is the major route. 
Brinzolamide is not an inhibitor of cytochrome P-450 isozymes. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of SIMBRINZA in pregnant women. 
Brinzolamide was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits, following systemic administration (oral gavage). 
Animal studies with oral brimonidine do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to 
reproductive toxicity. In animal studies, brimonidine crossed the placenta and entered into the foetal 
circulation to a limited extent (see section 5.3). SIMBRINZA is not recommended during pregnancy 
and in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether topical SIMBRINZA is excreted in human milk. Available 
pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown that following oral administration, 
minimal levels of brinzolamide are excreted in breast milk. Brimonidine administered orally is 
excreted in breast milk. SIMBRINZA should not be used by women who are breast-feeding.  
Fertility 
Non-clinical data do not show any effects of brinzolamide or brimonidine on fertility. There are no 
data on the effect of topical ocular administration of SIMBRINZA on human fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
SIMBRINZA has a moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
SIMBRINZA may cause dizziness, fatigue and/or drowsiness, which may impair the ability to drive or 
use machines. 
Temporary blurred vision or other visual disturbances may affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
If blurred vision occurs at instillation the patient must wait until the vision clears before driving or 
using machines. 
Oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may impair the ability of elderly patients to perform tasks requiring 
mental alertness and/or physical coordination (see section 4.4). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In clinical trials involving SIMBRINZA dosed twice daily the most common adverse reactions were 
ocular hyperaemia and ocular allergic type reactions occurring in approximately 6-7% of patients, and 
dysgeusia (bitter or unusual taste in the mouth following instillation) occurring in approximately 3% 
of patients. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported during clinical studies with SIMBRINZA twice-
daily dosing and during clinical studies and post-marketing surveillance with the individual 
components brinzolamide and brimonidine. They are classified according to the subsequent 
convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100), rare 
(≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000), very rare (<1/10 000) or not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). Within each frequency-grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Adverse reactions 
System Organ 
Classification 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system disorders  Uncommon: hypersensitivity3 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon: nasopharyngitis2, pharyngitis2, sinusitis2 
Not known: rhinitis2 
Uncommon: red blood cells decreased2, blood chloride increased2 
Uncommon: apathy2, depression2,3, depressed mood2, insomnia1, libido 
decreased2, nightmares2, nervousness2 
Nervous system disorders  Common: somnolence1, dizziness3, dysgeusia1 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon: headache1, motor dysfunction2, amnesia2, memory 
impairment2, paraesthesia2 
Very rare: syncope3 
Not known: tremor2, hypoaesthesia2, ageusia2 
Common: eye allergy1, keratitis1, eye pain1, ocular discomfort1, blurred 
vision1, abnormal vision3, ocular hyperaemia1, conjunctival blanching3 
Uncommon: corneal erosion1, corneal oedema2, blepharitis1, corneal 
deposits (keratic precipitates)1, conjunctival disorder (papillae)1, 
photophobia1, photopsia2, eye swelling2, eyelid oedema1, conjunctival 
oedema1, dry eye1, eye discharge1, visual acuity reduced2, lacrimation 
increased1, pterygium2, erythema of eyelid1, meibomianitis2, diplopia2, 
glare2, hypoaesthesia eye2, scleral pigmentation2, subconjunctival 
cyst2,abnormal sensation in eye1, asthenopia1 
Very rare: uveitis3, miosis3 
Not known: visual disturbances2, madarosis2 
Uncommon: vertigo1, tinnitus2 
Uncommon: cardio-respiratory distress2, angina pectoris2, arrhythmia3, 
palpitations2,3, heart rate irregular2, bradycardia2,3, tachycardia3 
Uncommon: hypotension1 
Very rare: hypertension3 
Uncommon: dyspnoea2, bronchial hyperactivity2, pharyngolaryngeal 
pain2, dry throat1, cough2, epistaxis2, upper respiratory tract congestion2, 
nasal congestion1, rhinorrhoea2, throat irritation2, nasal dryness1, 
postnasal drip1, sneezing2 
Not known: asthma2 
Gastrointestinal disorders  Common: dry mouth1 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Uncommon: dyspepsia1, oesophagitis2, abdominal discomfort1, 
diarrhoea2, vomiting2, nausea2, frequent bowel movements2, flatulence2, 
hypoaesthesia oral2, paraesthesia oral1 
Not known: liver function test abnormal2 
Uncommon: dermatitis contact1, urticaria2, rash2, rash maculopapular2, 
pruritus generalised2, alopecia2, skin tightness2 
Not known: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS)/toxic epidermal necrolysis 
(TEN) (see section 4.4), face oedema3, dermatitis2,3, erythema2,3 
7 
 
 
Uncommon: back pain2, muscle spasms2, myalgia2 
Not known: arthralgia2, pain in extremity2 
Uncommon: renal pain2 
Not known: pollakiuria2 
Uncommon: erectile dysfunction2 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
1 adverse reaction observed with SIMBRINZA 
2 additional adverse reaction observed with brinzolamide monotherapy 
3 additional adverse reaction observed with brimonidine monotherapy 
Uncommon: pain2, chest discomfort2, feeling abnormal2, feeling jittery2, 
irritability2, medication residue1 
Not known: chest pain2, peripheral oedema2,3 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Dysgeusia was the most common systemic adverse reaction associated with the use of SIMBRINZA 
(3.4%). It is likely to be caused by passage of the eye drops in the nasopharynx via the nasolacrimal 
canal and is mainly attributable to the brinzolamide component of SIMBRINZA. Nasolacrimal 
occlusion or gently closing the eyelid after instillation may help reduce the occurrence of this effect 
(see section 4.2). 
SIMBRINZA contains brinzolamide, which is a sulphonamide inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase with 
systemic absorption. Gastrointestinal, nervous system, haematological, renal and metabolic effects are 
generally associated with systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. The same type of adverse reactions 
attributable to oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may occur with topical administration. 
Adverse reactions commonly associated with the brimonidine component of SIMBRINZA include the 
development of ocular allergic type reactions, fatigue and/or drowsiness, and dry mouth. The use of 
brimonidine has been associated with minimal decreases in blood pressure. Some patients who dosed 
with SIMBRINZA experienced decreases in blood pressure similar to those observed with the use of 
brimonidine as monotherapy. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
If overdose with SIMBRINZA occurs treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. The patient’s 
airway should be maintained. 
Due to the brinzolamide component of SIMBRINZA, electrolyte imbalance, development of an 
acidotic state, and possible nervous system effects may occur. Serum electrolyte levels (particularly 
potassium) and blood pH levels must be monitored. 
There is very limited information regarding accidental ingestion with the brimonidine component of 
SIMBRINZA in adults. The only adverse reaction reported to date was hypotension. It was reported 
that the hypotensive episode was followed by rebound hypertension. 
Oral overdoses of other alpha-2-agonists have been reported to cause symptoms such as hypotension, 
asthenia, vomiting, lethargy, sedation, bradycardia, arrhythmias, miosis, apnoea, hypotonia, 
hypothermia, respiratory depression and seizure. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Serious adverse reactions following inadvertent ingestion with the brimonidine component of 
SIMBRINZA by paediatric subjects have been reported. The subjects experienced symptoms of CNS 
depression, typically temporary coma or low level of consciousness, lethargy, somnolence, hypotonia, 
bradycardia, hypothermia, pallor, respiratory depression and apnoea, and required admission to 
intensive care with intubation if indicated. All subjects were reported to have made a full recovery, 
usually within 6-24 hours. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Ophthalmologicals, Antiglaucoma preparations and miotics, ATC 
code: S01EC54 
Mechanism of action 
SIMBRINZA contains two active substances: brinzolamide and brimonidine tartrate. These two 
components lower intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma (OAG) and ocular 
hypertension (OHT) by suppressing the formation of aqueous humour from the ciliary process in the 
eye. Although both brinzolamide and brimonidine lower IOP by suppressing aqueous humour 
formation, their mechanisms of action are different. 
Brinzolamide acts by inhibiting the enzyme carbonic anhydrase (CA-II) in the ciliary epithelium that 
reduces the formation of bicarbonate ions with subsequent reduction in sodium and fluid transport 
across the ciliary epithelium, resulting in decreased aqueous humour formation. Brimonidine, an 
alpha-2 adrenergic agonist, inhibits the enzyme adenylate cyclase and suppresses the cAMP-dependent 
formation of aqueous humour. Additionally, administration of brimonidine results in an increase in 
uveoscleral outflow. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Monotherapy 
In a 6-month, controlled, contribution of elements clinical study enrolling 560 patients with open-
angle glaucoma (including pseudoexfoliation or pigment dispersion component) and/or ocular 
hypertension who, in the investigator’s opinion, were insufficiently controlled on monotherapy or 
already on multiple IOP-lowering medicinal products, and who had mean baseline diurnal IOP of 
26 mmHg, the mean diurnal IOP-lowering effect of SIMBRINZA dosed twice daily was 
approximately 8 mmHg. Statistically superior reductions in the mean diurnal IOP were observed with 
SIMBRINZA compared to brinzolamide 10 mg/ml or brimonidine 2 mg/ml dosed twice daily at all 
visits throughout the study (Figure 1). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  Meana diurnal (9 AM, +2 hrs, +7 hrs) IOP change from baseline (mmHg) — 
Contribution of elements study 
aLeast squares means derived from a statistical model that accounts for study site, 9 AM baseline IOP stratum, 
and correlated IOP measurements within patient. 
All treatment differences (SIMBRINZA versus individual components) were statistically significant with 
p=0.0001 or less. 
Mean IOP reductions from baseline at each time point at each visit were greater with SIMBRINZA (6 
to 9 mmHg) than monotherapy with either brinzolamide (5 to 7 mmHg) or brimonidine (4 to 
7 mmHg). Mean percent IOP reductions from baseline with SIMBRINZA ranged from 23 to 34%. The 
percentages of patients with an IOP measurement less than 18 mmHg were greater in the 
SIMBRINZA group than in the Brinzolamide group at 11 of 12 assessments through Month 6 and 
were greater in the SIMBRINZA group than in the Brimonidine group at all 12 assessments through 
Month 6. At the +2 h time point (the time corresponding to the morning efficacy peak) for the primary 
efficacy visit at Month 3, the percentage of patients with an IOP less than 18 mmHg was 68.8% in the 
SIMBRINZA group, 42.3% in the Brinzolamide group, and 44.0% in the Brimonidine group. 
In a 6-month, controlled, non-inferiority clinical study enrolling 890 patients with open-angle 
glaucoma (including pseudoexfoliation or pigment dispersion component) and/or ocular hypertension 
who, in the investigator’s opinion, were insufficiently controlled on monotherapy or already on 
multiple IOP-lowering medicinal products, and who had mean baseline diurnal IOP of 26 to 
27 mmHg, non-inferiority of SIMBRINZA compared to brinzolamide 10 mg/mL + brimonidine 
2 mg/mL dosed concomitantly was demonstrated at all visits throughout the study with respect to 
mean diurnal IOP reduction from baseline (Table 1). 
Table 1 
Comparison of mean diurnal IOP (mmHg) change from baseline – Non-inferiority 
study 
Visit 
Week 2 
Week 6 
Month 3 
Month 6 
a Least squares means derived from a statistical model that accounts for study site, 9 AM 
baseline IOP stratum, and correlated IOP measurements within patient 
Brinzolamide + Brimonidine 
Meana 
-8.4 (n=384) 
-8.4 (n=377) 
-8.3 (n=373) 
-8.2 (n=330) 
Difference 
Meana (95% CI) 
-0.0 (-0.4, 0.3) 
-0.1 (-0.4, 0.2) 
-0.1 (-0.5, 0.2) 
0.1 (-0.3, 0.4) 
SIMBRINZA 
Meana 
-8.4 (n=394) 
-8.5 (n=384) 
-8.5 (n=384) 
-8.1 (n=346) 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean IOP reductions from baseline at each time point at each visit with SIMBRINZA or the 
individual components administered concomitantly were similar (7 to 10 mmHg). Mean percent IOP 
reductions from baseline with SIMBRINZA ranged from 25 to 37%.The percentages of patients with 
an IOP measurement less than 18 mmHg were similar across study visits for the same time point 
through Month 6 in the SIMBRINZA and Brinzolamide + Brimonidine groups. At the +2 h time point 
(the time corresponding to the morning efficacy peak) for the primary efficacy visit at Month 3, the 
percentage of patients with an IOP less than 18 mmHg was 71.6% in both study groups. 
Adjunct therapy 
Clinical data on the use of SIMBRINZA adjunctive to prostaglandin analogues (PGA) also showed 
superior IOP-lowering efficacy of SIMBRINZA + PGA compared with the PGA alone. In study 
CQVJ499A2401, SIMBRINZA + PGA (i.e. travoprost, latanoprost, or bimatoprost) demonstrated 
superior IOP-lowering efficacy from baseline compared to Vehicle + PGA after 6 weeks of treatment, 
with between-treatment difference in model-adjusted mean change from baseline in diurnal IOP 
of -3.44 mmHg (95% CI, -4.2, -2.7; p-value <0.001). 
Clinical data on the use of SIMBRINZA adjunctive to travoprost-timolol maleate fixed dose 
combination eye drops, solution also showed superior IOP-lowering efficacy of SIMBRINZA + 
travoprost-timolol maleate eye drops compared with the travoprost-timolol maleate alone. In study 
CQVJ499A2402, SIMBRINZA + travoprost-timolol maleate eye drops demonstrated superior IOP-
lowering efficacy from baseline compared to Vehicle + travoprost-timolol maleate eye drops after 
6 weeks of treatment, with between-treatment difference in model-adjusted mean change from 
baseline in diurnal IOP of -2.15 mmHg (95% CI, -2.8, -1.5; p-value <0.001). 
The safety profile of SIMBRINZA in adjunct therapy was similar to that observed with SIMBRINZA 
monotherapy. 
There are no efficacy and safety data for adjunct therapy beyond 6 weeks. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
SIMBRINZA in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of glaucoma and ocular 
hypertension (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Brinzolamide is absorbed through the cornea following topical ocular administration. The substance is 
also absorbed into the systemic circulation, where it binds strongly to carbonic anhydrase in red blood 
cells (RBCs). Plasma concentrations are very low. Whole blood elimination half-life is prolonged 
(>100 days) in humans due to RBC carbonic anhydrase binding. 
Brimonidine is rapidly absorbed into the eye following topical administration. In rabbits, maximum 
ocular concentrations were achieved in less than one hour in most cases. Maximum human plasma 
concentrations are <1 ng/mL and achieved within <1 hour. Plasma levels decline with a half-life of 
approximately 2-3 hours. No accumulation occurs during chronic administration. 
In a topical ocular clinical study comparing the systemic pharmacokinetics of SIMBRINZA 
administered two or three times daily to brinzolamide and brimonidine administered individually using 
the same two posologies, the steady-state whole blood brinzolamide and N-desethylbrinzolamide 
pharmacokinetics were similar between the combination product and brinzolamide administered alone. 
Likewise, the steady-state plasma pharmacokinetics of brimonidine from the combination were similar 
to those observed for brimonidine administered alone, with the exception of the twice daily 
SIMBRINZA treatment group, for which the mean AUC0-12 hours was about 25% lower than that for 
brimonidine alone administered twice daily. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
Studies in rabbits showed that maximum brinzolamide ocular concentrations following topical 
administration are in the anterior tissues such as cornea, conjunctiva, aqueous humour and iris-ciliary 
body. Retention in ocular tissues is prolonged due to binding to carbonic anhydrase. Brinzolamide is 
moderately (about 60%) bound to human plasma proteins. 
Brimonidine exhibits affinity for pigmented ocular tissues, particularly iris-ciliary body, due to its 
known melanin binding properties. However, clinical and non-clinical safety data show it to be well-
tolerated and safe during chronic administration. 
Biotransformation 
Brinzolamide is metabolised by hepatic cytochrome P450 isozymes, specifically CYP3A4, CYP2A6, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9. The primary metabolite is N-desethylbrinzolamide, followed by the 
N-desmethoxypropyl and O-desmethyl metabolites, as well as an N-propionic acid analogue formed 
by oxidation of the N-propyl side chain of O-desmethyl brinzolamide. Brinzolamide and N-
desethylbrinzolamide do not inhibit cytochrome P450 isozymes at concentrations at least 100-fold 
above maximum systemic levels. 
Brimonidine is extensively metabolised by hepatic aldehyde oxidase, with formation of 2-
oxobrimonidine, 3-oxobrimonidine and 2,3-dioxobrimonidine being the major metabolites. Oxidative 
cleavage of the imidazoline ring to 5-bromo-6-guanidinoquinoxaline is also observed. 
Elimination 
Brinzolamide is primarily eliminated in urine unchanged. In humans, urinary brinzolamide and N-
desethylbrinzolamide accounted for about 60 and 6% of the dose, respectively. Data in rats showed 
some biliary excretion (about 30%), primarily as metabolites. 
Brimonidine is primarily eliminated in the urine as metabolites. In rats and monkeys, urinary 
metabolites accounted for 60 to 75% of oral or intravenous doses. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Brinzolamide pharmacokinetics are inherently non-linear due to saturable binding to carbonic 
anhydrase in whole blood and various tissues. Steady-state exposure does not increase in a dose-
proportional manner. 
In contrast, brimonidine exhibits linear pharmacokinetics over the clinically therapeutic dose range. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s) 
SIMBRINZA is intended for local action within the eye. Assessment of human ocular exposure at 
efficacious doses is not feasible. The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship in humans for 
IOP-lowering has not been established. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other special populations 
Studies to determine the effects of age, race, and renal or hepatic impairment have not been conducted 
with SIMBRINZA. A study of brinzolamide in Japanese versus non-Japanese subjects showed similar 
systemic pharmacokinetics between the two groups. In a study of brinzolamide in subjects with renal 
impairment, a 1.6- to 2.8-fold increase in the systemic exposure to brinzolamide and N-
desethylbrinzolamide between normal and moderately renally-impaired subjects was demonstrated. 
This increase in steady-state RBC concentrations of substance-related material did not inhibit RBC 
carbonic anhydrase activity to levels that are associated with systemic side effects. However, the 
combination product is not recommended for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance <30 mL/minute). 
The Cmax, AUC and elimination half-life of brimonidine are similar in elderly (>65 years of age) 
subjects compared to young adults. The effects of renal and hepatic impairment on the systemic 
pharmacokinetics of brimonidine have not been evaluated. Given the low systemic exposure to 
brimonidine following topical ocular administration, it is expected that changes in plasma exposure 
would not be clinically relevant. 
Paediatric population 
The systemic pharmacokinetics of brinzolamide and brimonidine, alone or in combination, in 
paediatric patients have not been studied. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Brinzolamide 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single-dose toxicity, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and carcinogenic potential. 
Effects in non-clinical reproduction and development toxicity studies were observed only at exposures 
considered sufficiently in excess of the maximum human exposure indicating little relevance to 
clinical use. In rabbits oral, maternally toxic doses of brinzolamide of up to 6 mg/kg/day (261 times 
the recommended daily clinical dose of 23 µg/kg/day) revealed no effect on foetal development. In 
rats doses of 18 mg/kg/day (783 times the recommended daily clinical dose), but not 6 mg/kg/day, 
resulted in slightly reduced ossification of skull and sternebrae of foetuses. These findings were 
associated with metabolic acidosis with decreased body weight gain in dams and decreased foetal 
weights. Dose related decreases in foetal weights were observed in pups of dams given 2 to 
18 mg/kg/day. During lactation, the no adverse effect level in the offspring was 5 mg/kg/day. 
Brimonidine 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, toxicity to reproduction 
and development. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Benzalkonium chloride 
Propylene glycol 
Carbomer 974P 
Boric acid 
Mannitol 
Sodium chloride 
Tyloxapol 
Hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide (to adjust pH) 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
4 weeks after first opening. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
8 mL round, opaque, low density polyethylene (LDPE) bottles with a LDPE dropper tip and white 
polypropylene screw cap containing 5 mL suspension. 
Carton containing 1 or 3 bottles. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements for disposal. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/933/001-002 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 July 2014 
Date of last renewal: 20 February 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
BE-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 5 ml BOTTLE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
SIMBRINZA 10 mg/ml + 2 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
brinzolamide/brimonidine tartrate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 ml of suspension contains 10 mg brinzolamide and 2 mg brimonidine tartrate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Benzalkonium chloride, propylene glycol, carbomer 974P, boric acid, mannitol, sodium chloride, 
tyloxapol, hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide (to adjust pH) and purified water. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Eye drops, suspension 
1 x 5 ml 
3 x 5 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Shake well before use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Ocular use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
Opened (1): 
Opened (2): 
Opened (3): 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/933/001 
EU/1/14/933/002 
1 x 5 ml 
3 x 5 ml 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
simbrinza 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER-2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
23 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
SIMBRINZA 10 mg/ml + 2 mg/ml eye drops 
brinzolamide/brimonidine tartrate 
Ocular use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
5 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
SIMBRINZA 10 mg/ml + 2 mg/ml eye drops, suspension 
brinzolamide/brimonidine tartrate 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, optometrist (optician) or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, optometrist (optician) or pharmacist. This 
includes any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What SIMBRINZA is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use SIMBRINZA 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use SIMBRINZA 
Possible side effects 
How to store SIMBRINZA 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What SIMBRINZA is and what it is used for 
SIMBRINZA contains two active substances, brinzolamide and brimonidine tartrate. Brinzolamide 
belongs to a group of medicines called carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and brimonidine tartrate belongs 
to a group of medicines called alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists. Both substances work together to 
reduce pressure within the eye. 
SIMBRINZA is used to lower pressure in the eyes in adult patients (aged 18 years and over) who have 
eye conditions known as glaucoma or ocular hypertension and whose high pressure in the eyes cannot 
be controlled effectively by one medicine alone. 
2.  What you need to know before you use SIMBRINZA 
Do not use SIMBRINZA 
- 
if you are allergic to brinzolamide or brimonidine tartrate or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6) 
if you are allergic to sulphonamides (examples include medicines used to treat diabetes and 
infections and also diuretics (water tablets)) 
if you are taking a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (examples include medicines to treat 
depression or Parkinson’s disease) or certain antidepressants. You must inform your doctor if 
you are taking any antidepressant medicines 
if you have severe kidney problems 
if you have too much acidity in your blood (a condition called hyperchloraemic acidosis) 
in babies and infants aged less than 2 years. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, optometrist (optician) or pharmacist before using SIMBRINZA if you have now 
or have had in the past: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
liver problems 
a type of high pressure in the eyes called narrow-angle glaucoma 
dry eyes or cornea problems 
coronary heart disease (symptoms can include chest pain or tightness, breathlessness or 
choking), heart failure, high or low blood pressure 
depression 
disturbed or poor blood circulation (such as Raynaud’s disease, Raynaud’s syndrome or cerebral 
insufficiency). 
if you have ever developed a severe skin rash or skin peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores after 
using SIMBRINZA or other related medicines. 
- 
- 
- 
Take special care with SIMBRINZA: 
Serious skin reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been 
reported in association with brinzolamide treatment. Stop using SIMBRINZA and seek medical 
attention immediately if you notice any of the symptoms related to these serious skin reactions 
described in section 4. 
If you wear soft contact lenses, do not use the drops with your lenses in. See section “Wearing contact 
lenses - SIMBRINZA contains benzalkonium chloride” below). 
Children and adolescents 
SIMBRINZA is not intended for use by children and adolescents aged below 18 years because it has 
not been studied in this age group. It is particularly important that the medicine is not used in children 
under the age of 2 years (see section ‘Do not use SIMBRINZA’ above) because it is unlikely to be 
safe. 
Other medicines and SIMBRINZA 
Tell your doctor, optometrist (optician) or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used, or might 
use any other medicines. 
SIMBRINZA can affect or be affected by other medicines you are using, including other eye drops for 
the treatment of glaucoma. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking or intend to take any of the following medicines: 
- 
- 
- 
medicines to lower blood pressure 
heart medicines including digoxin (used to treat heart conditions) 
other medicines for glaucoma that also treat altitude sickness known as acetazolamide, 
methazolamide and dorzolamide 
medicines that can affect the metabolism, such as chlorpromazine, methylphenidate and 
reserpine 
antiviral, antiretroviral (used to treat Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)) or antibiotic 
medicines 
antiyeast or antifungal medicines 
monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, or antidepressants including amitriptyline, nortriptyline, 
clomipramine, mianserin, venlafaxine and duloxetine 
anaesthetics 
sedatives, opiates, or barbiturates 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
You should also tell your doctor if the dose of any of your current medicines is changed. 
SIMBRINZA with alcohol 
If you regularly consume alcohol, ask your doctor, optometrist (optician) or pharmacist for advice 
before taking this medicine. SIMBRINZA can be affected by alcohol. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor, 
optometrist (optician) or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. Women who may become 
pregnant are advised to use effective contraception during SIMBRINZA treatment. The use of 
SIMBRINZA is not recommended during pregnancy. Do not use SIMBRINZA unless clearly 
indicated by your doctor. 
If you are breast-feeding, SIMBRINZA may pass into your milk. The use of SIMBRINZA is not 
recommended during breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines 
You may find that your vision is blurred or abnormal for a time just after using SIMBRINZA. 
SIMBRINZA may also cause dizziness, drowsiness or tiredness in some patients. 
Do not drive or use machines until the symptoms are cleared. 
Wearing contact lenses - SIMBRINZA contains benzalkonium chloride 
This medicine contains 0.15 mg benzalkonium chloride in each 5 ml, which is equivalent to 
0.03 mg/ml. 
Benzalkonium chloride may be absorbed by soft contact lenses and may change the colour of the 
contact lenses. You should remove contact lenses before using this medicine and put them back 
15 minutes afterwards. Benzalkonium chloride may also cause eye irritation, especially if you have 
dry eyes or a disorder of the cornea (the clear layer at the front of the eye). If you feel abnormal eye 
sensation, stinging or pain in the eye after using this medicine, talk to your doctor. 
3. 
How to use SIMBRINZA 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor, optometrist (optician) or pharmacist has told you. 
Check with your doctor, optometrist (optician) or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Only use SIMBRINZA for your eyes. Do not swallow or inject. 
The recommended dose is one drop in the affected eye or eyes two times a day. Use at the same time 
each day. 
How to use 
Wash your hands before you start. 
1 
2 
Shake well before use. 
Twist off the bottle cap. After the cap is removed, if the tamper evident snap collar is loose, remove it 
before using the medicine. 
Do not touch the dropper with your fingers when opening or closing the bottle. It could infect the 
drops. 
Hold the bottle, pointing down, between your thumb and fingers. 
Tilt your head back. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pull down your lower eyelid with a clean finger, until there is a ‘pocket’ between the eyelid and your 
eye. The drop will go in here (picture 1). 
Bring the bottle tip close to the eye. Do this in front of a mirror if it helps. 
Do not touch your eye or eyelid, surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper. It could infect 
the drops. 
Gently press on the base of the bottle to release one drop of SIMBRINZA. 
Do not squeeze the bottle: it is designed so that a gentle press on the bottom is all that it needs 
(picture 2). 
To reduce the amount of medicine that could come into the rest of the body after application of the eye 
drop, close your eye and apply gentle pressure to the corner of the eye next to the nose with a finger 
for at least 2 minutes. 
If you use drops in both eyes, repeat the steps for your other eye. It is not necessary to close and 
shake the bottle before you apply the drop in your other eye. Close the bottle cap firmly immediately 
after use. 
If you are using other eye drops as well as SIMBRINZA, wait at least five minutes between using 
SIMBRINZA and the other drops. 
If a drop misses your eye, try again. 
If you use more SIMBRINZA than you should 
Rinse your eye with warm water. Do not put in any more drops until it is time for your next regular 
dose. 
Adults who accidentally swallowed medicines containing brimonidine experienced a decreased heart 
rate, decreased blood pressure which may be followed by increased blood pressure, heart failure, 
difficulty breathing and effects in the nervous system. Should this happen, contact your doctor 
immediately. 
Serious side effects have been reported in children who accidently swallowed medicines containing 
brimonidine. Signs included sleepiness, floppiness, low body temperature, paleness and breathing 
difficulties. Should this happen, contact your doctor immediately. 
If SIMBRINZA has been accidentally swallowed then you should contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to use SIMBRINZA 
Continue with the next dose as planned. Do not use a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Do 
not use more than one drop in the affected eye(s) two times a day. 
If you stop using SIMBRINZA 
Do not stop using SIMBRINZA without first speaking to your doctor. If you stop using SIMBRINZA 
the pressure in your eye will not be controlled, which could lead to loss of sight. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, optometrist (optician) or 
pharmacist. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
If you experience any of the following side effects, please stop using this medicine and seek immediate 
medical attention as these could be signs of a reaction to the medicine. The frequency of an allergic 
reaction to the medicine is not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data). 
• 
Severe skin reactions, including rash or redness or itching on your body or eyes 
• 
Trouble breathing 
• 
Chest pain, irregular heart beat 
Contact your doctor immediately if you develop extreme tiredness or dizziness. 
The following side effects have been observed with SIMBRINZA and other medicines containing 
brinzolamide or brimonidine alone. 
Stop using SIMBRINZA and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the following 
symptoms: 
• 
reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, skin 
peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. These serious skin rashes can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis). 
• 
• 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Effects in the eye: allergic conjunctivitis (eye allergy), eye surface inflammation, eye pain, eye 
discomfort, blurred or abnormal vision, eye redness 
General side effects: drowsiness, dizziness, bad taste in mouth, dry mouth 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
Effects in the eye: eye surface damage with loss of cells, inflammation of the eyelid, deposits on 
the eye surface, sensitivity to light, swelling of the eye (affecting the cornea or eyelid), dry eye, 
eye discharge, watery eye, eyelid redness, abnormal or decreased sensation in eye, tired eye, 
reduced vision, double vision, product particles in eyes. 
General side effects: decreased blood pressure, chest pain, irregular heartbeat, slow or fast heart 
rate, palpitations, difficulty sleeping (insomnia), nightmares, depression, generalised weakness, 
headache, dizziness, nervousness, irritability, general feeling of being unwell, memory loss, 
shortness of breath, asthma, nose bleeds, cold symptoms, dry nose or throat, sore throat, throat 
irritation, cough, runny nose, stuffy nose, sneezing, sinus infection, chest congestion, ringing in 
ear, indigestion, intestinal gas or stomach ache, nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, abnormal sensation 
in mouth, increased allergic symptoms on skin, rash, abnormal skin sensation, hair loss, 
generalised itching, increased blood chlorine levels, or decreased red blood cell count as seen in 
a blood test, pain, back pain, muscle pain or spasm, kidney pain such as lower back pain, 
decreased libido, male sexual difficulty. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people) 
• 
• 
Effects in the eye: decreased pupil size 
General side effects: fainting, increased blood pressure 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
Effects in the eye: decreased growth of eyelashes 
General side effects: tremor, decreased sensation, loss of taste, abnormal liver function values as 
seen in a blood test, swelling of the face, joint pain, frequent urination, chest pain, swelling of 
the extremities, reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with 
central blisters, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes, which can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms. These serious skin rashes can be potentially life-
threatening (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis). 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, optometrist (optician) or pharmacist. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national 
reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more 
information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store SIMBRINZA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle and the carton after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Throw away the bottle 4 weeks after first opening to prevent infections and use a new bottle. Write 
down the date of opening on the carton in the space provided. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your optometrist (optician) 
or pharmacist how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What SIMBRINZA contains 
- 
- 
The active substances are brinzolamide and brimonidine tartrate. One ml of suspension contains 
10 mg of brinzolamide and 2 mg of brimonidine tartrate equivalent to 1.3 mg brimonidine. 
The other ingredients are benzalkonium chloride (see section 2 “Wearing contact lenses - 
SIMBRINZA contains benzalkonium chloride”), propylene glycol, carbomer 974P, boric acid, 
mannitol, sodium chloride, tyloxapol, hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide and purified 
water. 
Tiny amounts of hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide are added to keep acidity levels (pH 
levels) normal. 
What SIMBRINZA looks like and contents of the pack 
SIMBRINZA eye drops, suspension, is a liquid (white-to-off-white suspension) supplied in a pack 
containing one or three 5 ml plastic bottles with screw cap. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
BE-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
