Summary of the risk management plan for Simbrinza 
(brinzolamide/brimonidine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Simbrinza. The 
RMP details important risks of Simbrinza, how these risks can be minimized, 
and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Simbrinza's  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Simbrinza's  SmPC  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how Simbrinza should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Simbrinza should be read in the context of all 
this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Simbrinza’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Simbrinza is authorized for lowering elevated intra ocular pressure (IOP) in 
adult  patients  with  open  angle  glaucoma  (OAG)  or  ocular  hypertension 
(OHT)  for  whom  monotherapy  provides  insufficient  IOP  reduction.  It 
contains two active substances: brinzolamide and brimonidine tartrate and 
it  is  given  is  as  eye  drops  suspension  containing  brinzolamide  10 mg/mL 
and brimonidine tartrate 2 mg/mL. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Simbrinza’s  benefits  can  be 
found  in  Simbrinza’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary, 
available  on  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: 
<https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/simbrinza> 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks 
Important risks of Simbrinza, together with measures to minimize such risks 
and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Simbrinza's  risks,  are 
outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on 
correct use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and 
healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen 
so to ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the 
patient (e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its 
risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is 
collected continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment 
so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Simbrinza is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A: List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Simbrinza are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal 
product  can  be  safely  administered  and  taken.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Simbrinza. Potential risks 
are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is 
possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing 
and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II B: Summary of important risks 
Not applicable. 
II C: Post-authorization development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or 
specific obligation of Simbrinza. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There are no studies required for Simbrinza. 
 
