14 April 2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Simponi 
golimumab   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000992/II/0021 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific discussion 
Introduction 
Golimumab is approved in the EU in adults who have responded inadequately to previous therapy for 
the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in combination with methotrexate 
(MTX); active and progressive psoriatic arthritis (PsA), alone or in combination with MTX; and severe, 
active ankylosing spondylitis (AS). 
For PsA and AS, the approved dose is 50 mg given once a month. The currently approved dose in RA 
is: 50 mg given once a month, on the same date each month. Simponi should be given concomitantly 
with MTX. 
Across all indications, in patients weighing more than 100 kg who do not achieve an adequate clinical 
response  after  3  or  4  doses,  increasing  the  dose  of  golimumab  to  100  mg  once  a  month  may  be 
considered. Continued therapy should be reconsidered in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic 
benefit after receiving 3 to 4 additional doses of 100 mg. 
The  MAH  submitted  a  variation  to  add  the  following  indication  in  section  4.1  (underlined  text  is  the 
wording applied for in this variation): 
“Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
Simponi,  alone  or  in  combination  with  MTX,  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  active  and  progressive 
psoriatic  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  previous  disease  modifying  anti  rheumatic 
drug  (DMARD)  therapy  has  been  inadequate.  Simponi  has  also  been  shown  to  reduce  the  rate  of 
progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function in this 
patient population.” 
Furthermore,  the  MAH  also  proposes  an  update  of  section  5.1  regarding  golimumab’s  continued 
efficacy  in  the  maintenance  of  the  improvement  in  signs  and  symptoms  and  physical  function  in  PsA 
patients. The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 1901/2006 as amended, the application included an EMA 
decision (P/84/2010) for the following conditions: 
 
 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis 
  Ankylosing spondylitis 
  Rheumatoid arthritis 
On the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP) with a deferral. 
The PIP is not yet completed. 
Assessment report  
Page 2/26
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Golimumab  is  a  human  monoclonal  antibody  with  an  immunoglobulin  G  (IgG)  1  heavy  chain  isotype 
(G1m allotype) and a kappa light chain isotype. Golimumab binds with high affinity to both soluble and 
transmembrane forms of tumor necrosis factor alpha and inhibits TNF bioactivity. 
Clinical efficacy 
Introduction 
The  initial  marketing  authorization  application  and  approval  were  based  primarily  on  24-week  safety 
and  efficacy  data  from  one  Phase  3  PsA  study  with  SC  golimumab,  C0524T08.    During  the  approval 
procedure, 52 weeks efficacy data were submitted as part of responses to Day 120 LoQ. Thus, focus of 
the efficacy assessment will be data beyond week 52 as well as the X-ray data.   
Study C0524T08 (GO-REVEAL)  
Methods 
For details on this study, see the original approval assessment reports. In brief:  
- Study Participants: Men and women, >18 years of age, with a diagnosis of PsA for at least 6 months 
prior  to  first  study  agent  administration  who  had  active  PsA  despite  current  or  previous  DMARD  or 
NSAID  therapy,  and  who  had  not  previously  been  treated  with  anti-tumor  necrosis  factor  (TNF)  α 
therapy.  
- The main inclusion criteria were: Active PsA at the time of screening and at baseline, as characterized 
by  3  or  more  swollen  joints  and  3  or  more  tender  joints,  and  despite  current  or  previous  DMARD  or 
NSAID therapy. DMARD therapy was defined as taking a DMARD for at least 3 months, or evidence of 
DMARD intolerance. NSAID therapy was defined as taking an NSAID for at least 4 weeks. Presence of 
at least 1 of the PsA subsets: DIP joint arthritis, polyarticular arthritis with the absence of rheumatoid 
nodules, arthritis mutilans, asymmetric peripheral arthritis, or spondylitis with peripheral arthritis. 
-  Study  population:  The  median  age  was  47  years  and 60%  of  enrolled  subjects  were  men.  Subjects 
had  long-standing  disease  (about  5  years  of  median  duration)  of  moderate  to  severe  activity. 
Polyarthritis  symmetric  was  the  more  frequent  subtype  of  PsA,  more  than  one  third  of  the  study 
population  was  affected  by  dactylitis  and/or  enthesitis  at  baseline  and  the  majority  had  psoriatic 
fingernail  disease.  The  proportions  of  subjects  at  baseline  using  MTX,  oral  corticosteroids,  or  NSAIDs 
specifically for PsA were similar across all treatment groups. Approximately half of the subjects in each 
treatment group were receiving MTX at baseline with a median dose of 15 mg/week. About 3/4 were 
taking NSAIDs, and less than 20% oral corticosteroids. Patients were stratified by MTX use at baseline. 
The  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  with  respect  to  baseline  demographics  and  disease 
characteristics. 
Treatment: 
The first 24 weeks were placebo-controlled; the following treatments were given:  
•  Group I: Placebo SC injections at Weeks 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20 
•  Group II: Golimumab 50 mg SC injections at Weeks 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20 
•  Group III: Golimumab 100 mg SC injections at Weeks 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20 
Early Escape (Week 16) 
At  Week  16,  subjects  in  any  group  who  had  <  10%  improvement  from  baseline  in  both  swollen  and 
tender  joint  count  entered  early  escape  in  a  double-blinded  fashion,  with  the  following  treatments: 
•  Group I: Golimumab 50 mg SC injections at Weeks 16 and 20 
•  Group II: Golimumab 100 mg SC injections at Weeks 16 and 20 
Assessment report  
Page 3/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Subjects randomized to Group III, and qualifying for early escape, continued to receive golimumab 100 
mg SC injections at Weeks 16 and 20. 
At Week 24: the following treatments were given 
•  Group  I:  Golimumab  50  mg  SC  injections  at  Week  24  and  every  4  weeks  thereafter  through 
Week 48; if entered into early escape, subjects continued to receive golimumab 50 mg injections 
every 4 weeks through Week 48. 
•  Group II: Continued golimumab 50 mg SC injections at Week 24 and every 4 weeks thereafter 
through Week 48; if entered into early escape, subjects continued to receive golimumab 100 mg 
injections every 4 weeks through Week 48. 
. 
•  Group III: Continued golimumab 100 mg SC injections at Week 24 and every 4 weeks thereafter 
through Week 48; if entered into early escape, subjects continued to receive golimumab 100 mg 
injections every 4 weeks through Week 48. 
Figure 1 Study scheme. Panel A shows study treatments; Panel B shows key time points during the 
study  
From week 52, patients entered a Long-term extension period (Weeks 52 through 268), given open-
label treatment after the Week 52.  
Two co-primary endpoints were used:  
•  The number of subjects who achieved an ACR 20 (American College of Rheumatology 20) 
response at Week 14.  
•  change from baseline in total PSA modified vdH-S score (referred to as total modified van der 
Heijde-Sharpe score) for hands and feet at Week 24 
A number of additional endpoints were evaluated addressing signs and symptoms of arthritis, psoriasis, 
physical function, quality of life, and structural damage, see previous AR. 
Assessment of structural damage 
Assessment report  
Page 4/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
The 2 primary readers, and an adjudicator when required per the imaging charter, independently read 
each subject’s radiographs in a blinded fashion. All images for a given subject (ie, baseline, Week 24, 
Week  52,  and  any  radiographic  taken  at  the  time  of  SC  study  agent  discontinuation)  were  read  as  a 
group  in  a  random  order;  the  readers  were  blinded  to  randomized  treatment  group,  the  subject’s 
demographics and the time point at which individual radiographs were obtained. 
The  PsA  modified  vdH-S  scoring  method  evaluated  hand  and  feet  erosions  and  joint  space  narrowing 
(JSN)  with  a  total  score  ranging  from  0  to  528.  This  method  is  based  on  the  original  vdH-S  scoring 
method used in RA trials (van Der Heijde et al, 1992), with the addition of distal interphalangeal joints 
in  the  hands,  and  evaluation  for  PsA  specific  radiographic  features  such  as  pencil-in-cup  (PIC)  and 
gross osteolysis (GO) (van der Heijde et al, 2005). It was previously used in other PsA trials with anti-
TNFα agents and is accepted by regulatory agencies and the rheumatology community as a method to 
assess the progression of structural damage in PsA (van der Heijde et al, 2007 and Antoni et al, 2008). 
Statistical methods 
Descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, SD, range, and the interquartile range (IQ range) for 
continuous  variables,  and  counts  and  percentages  for  categorical  variables  were  used  to  summarize 
most data. 
All statistical testing was 2-tailed, at a significance level of 0.05. In addition to statistical analyses and 
tabulated  descriptive  statistics,  graphical  data  displays,  and  subject  listings  were  also  used  to 
summarize/present the data. Complete data handling rules for each endpoint are described in the SAP. 
SAS (Version 8.2) was used to conduct these analyses. 
The co-primary efficacy and selected secondary efficacy analyses were based on all subjects who were 
randomized  at  Week  0;  i.e.,  the  intent-to-treat  population.  Based  on  the  intent-to-treat  principle, 
subjects  randomly  assigned  to  a  treatment  group  were  included  in  the  efficacy  analyses  according  to 
their assigned treatment group whether or not they received the assigned treatment. 
Co-primary Radiographic Analysis 
For the co-primary analysis, data were summarized by randomized treatment groups: 
• Placebo: Subjects randomized to the placebo group 
• Golimumab 50 mg: Subjects randomized to the golimumab 50 mg group 
• Golimumab 100 mg: Subjects randomized to the golimumab 100 mg group 
For selected radiographic efficacy parameters, data were summarized by randomized treatment groups. 
Other  radiographic  data  were  summarized  by  early  escape  or  crossover  status  within  randomized 
treatment  groups.  Analyses  were  based  on  data  with  no  missing  imputation  rules  applied  unless 
specified otherwise.  
Data Handling Rules 
Treatment failure rule will not be applied. 
Slotting for images taken outside of visit windows 
All radiographs have to be taken within a protocol-specified window of ± 4 weeks of the baseline and ± 
2  weeks  for  subsequent  visits  at  Week  24,  Week  52,  Week  104,  Week  184  and  Week  256  visits. 
Nominal visits will still be used if the images taken within ± 8 weeks of the scheduled visit date. The 
images that are taken outside ± 8 weeks of the scheduled visit date will be considered out-of-window, 
and the x-ray data will be set to missing for that scheduled visit. 
Early escape rule: 
For subjects who meet early escape criteria at Week 16 in Groups I and II, their Week 24 values will 
still be used for Week 24 analysis, though these subjects have a change in their dose. 
Missing data imputation rules 
• If both baseline and Week 24 total modified vdH-S scores are missing, the change from baseline in 
total modified vdH-S scores at Week 24 will be imputed with the median change from baseline in total 
modified vdH-S scores of all subjects in the same stratum at Week 24. 
• If baseline total modified vdH-S score is missing, but data are available for 2 time points during the 
period from Week 0 to Week 24 (including any out-of-window or SC study agent discontinuation visit), 
the  total  modified  vdH-S  scores  at  these  2  time  points  will  be  linearly  extrapolated  to  impute  the 
missing  score  at  baseline.  If  there  is  not  enough  data  for  linear  extrapolation,  then  the  change  from 
baseline  in  total  modified  vdH-S  scores  at  Week  24  will  be  imputed  with  the  median  change  from 
baseline in total modified vdH-S scores of all subjects in the same stratum at Week 24. 
Assessment report  
Page 5/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
• If Week 24 total modified vdH-S score is missing, but data are available for 2 time points during the 
period from Week 0 to Week 24 (including any out-of-window or SC study agent discontinuation visit), 
the  total  modified  vdH-S  scores  at  these  2  time  points  will  be  linearly  extrapolated  to  impute  the 
missing score at Week 24. If there is not enough data in period from Week 0 to Week 24, but data are 
available for 2 time points during the period from Week 24 to Week 52 (including any out-of-window or 
SC  study  agent  discontinuation  visit),  the  total  modified  vdH-S  scores  at  these  2  time  points  will  be 
linearly  extrapolated  to  impute  the  missing  score  at  Week  24.  If  there  is  not  enough  data  for  linear 
extrapolation in either periods, then the change from baseline in total modified vdH-S scores at Week 
24 will be imputed with the median change from baseline in total modified vdH-S scores of all subjects 
in the same stratum at Week 24. 
Sensitivity analyses for structural damage 
1.  The first sensitivity analysis will be performed similarly to the co-primary analysis to assess the 
effect of considering only subjects who complete 24 Weeks of SC study agent administrations, 
did not miss any dose, and have no missing data either at baseline or Week 24. 
2.  The  second  sensitivity  analysis  will  be  performed  in  a  similar  manner  as  the  co-primary 
analysis  to  assess  the  effect  of  considering  only  subjects  who  do  not  meet  the  early  escape 
criteria at Week 16. 
3.  The third sensitivity analysis was performed similarly to the co-primary analysis to assess the 
effect  of  using  the  2  primary  readers’  scores  only,  even  in  the  cases  where  adjudication  was 
employed. 
Further  to  the  above,  the  CHMP  noted  that  depending  on  the  actually  observed  pattern  of  missing 
values neither the primary analysis nor the sensitivity analyses are necessarily conservative. The need 
for additional alternative analyses is discussed below.  
Results 
Disposition of patients 
Figure  2  shows  the  study  disposition  throughout  w  52.  Up  to  52  weeks  18,  18,  and  11  patients 
discontinued  study  treatment  in  the  placebo,  50  mg,  and  100  mg  group,  respectively.  Of  those 
randomised  to  placebo,  50  mg,  and  100  mg,  an  additional  7,  10,  and  8  patients,  respectively, 
discontinued study treatment between week 52 and 104. The reason for discontinuation is presented in 
Table 1. 
Assessment report  
Page 6/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Figure 2 Disposition of patients throughout week 52 
Table 1 Reason for discontinuation of study treatment through week 104. 
The CHMP noted the modest number of discontinuations by week (104), in total 17%. There were no 
major differences between placebo and the approved 50 mg group, neither with respect to the amount 
of discontinuations nor the cause for discontinuation. 
Baseline Radiographic Characteristics 
Baseline vdH-S scores were well balanced across all treatment groups with mean values ranging from 
18.2 to 23.8 and median values ranging from 9.0 to 10.5 on a scale ranging from 0 to 528, indicating 
the presence of structural damage at baseline in this moderately to severely active PsA population. 
Assessment report  
Page 7/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Primary results on structural damage (week 24) 
A statistically significant difference was seen between golimumab and placebo in the primary analysis 
of change from baseline in van der Heijde Modified Sharp score at Week 24 (Table 2).  
Table  2  Summary  of  change  from  baseline in  total  modified  van  der  Heijde  Sharp  score  at  Week  24 
stratified by baseline MTX use; randomized subjects.  
a) includes patients qualified for early escape. 
Sensitivity analyses 
Three  sensitivity  analyses  were  performed  for  the  primary  endpoint  of  change  from  baseline  in  total 
modified vdH-S score at Week 24. All sensitivity analyses confirmed the results of the primary analysis 
(See Table 3 and 4 for the first two sensitivity analyses). 
Table 3 Change from baseline in van der Heijde Modified Sharpe score at week 24. Sensitivity analysis 
1 including only patients who completed study treatment through Week 24, did not miss any dose, and 
had no missing data either at baseline or at Week 24. 
Table 4 Change from baseline in van der Heijde Modified Sharpe score at week 24. Sensitivity analysis 
2 including only patients who did not meet early escape criteria at Week 16 and therefore did not have 
a change in treatment regimen. 
Assessment report  
Page 8/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
The  third  sensitivity  analysis  was  performed  to  assess  the  effect  of  not  using  adjudication.  In  the 
analysis  based  on  data  from  the  primary  readers  only,  results  similar  to  the  primary  results  was 
obtained. 
The  CHMP  notes  that  a  consistent  statistically  significant  mean difference  between  golimumab  50  mg 
and  placebo  has  been  demonstrated  in  the  primary  analysis  and  the  sensitivity  analyses.  With  the 
similar pattern of missing values with respect to amount and cause there is no reason to believe that 
the observed differences are due to any substantial bias in favour of the placebo group. There was a 
tendency  that  patient  discontinued  earlier  in  the  placebo  group,  but  that  should  not  have  any 
disturbing  impact  on  the  imputation  of  missing  modified  vdHS  scores.  Thus  a  reliable  statistically 
significant  effect  of  golimumab  50  mg  on  structural  damage  has  been  demonstrated  at  week  24. 
However, the observed mean difference does not allow any assessment of clinical relevance. 
Subgroup Analyses 
At Week 24, subgroup analyses were performed for the change from baseline in total modified vdH-S 
score  by  weight,  disease  characteristics,  geographic  location,  and  concomitant  medications  for  PsA. 
The  subgroup  results  were  consistent  across  golimumab  treatment  groups.  Subgroup  analyses  were 
supportive of the primary endpoint analysis (Figure 3 and 4).  
Figure  3  Median  of  the  differences  between  treatment  groups  in  change  from  baseline  in  total 
modified vdH-S score at Week 24 (vertical bars) in combined and placebo groups and associated 95% 
confidence intervals for subgroups defined by baseline characteristics; randomized subjects 
Assessment report  
Page 9/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
The  CHMP  noted  that  only  in  the  polyarticular  arthritis  subgroup,  any  effect  on  total  modified  Sharp 
score is seen; i.e. it is the only group with progression in the placebo group, which is not unexpected 
based  on  the  similarity  of  this  subgroup  with  the  RA  population.  This has  also  been  evident  for  other 
anti-TNFs. 
Figure  4  Median  of  the  differences  between  treatment  groups  in  change  from  baseline  in  total 
modified  vdH-S  score  at  Week  24  (vertical  bars)  in  combined  golimumab  and  placebo  group  and 
associated  95%  confidence  intervals  for  subgroups  defined  by  baseline  medication;  randomized 
subjects 
Assessment report  
Page 10/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Empirical Cumulative Distribution 
Figure  5  shows  the  empirical  cumulative  distribution  function  plot  through  Week  24  summarizing  the 
change  in  total  modified  vdH-S  score  from  baseline  in  individual  subjects.  The  plot  of  the  empirical 
cumulative  distribution  function  shows  that  the  curve  of  the  placebo  group  is  above  that  of  both  the 
golimumab 50 mg and 100 mg groups, especially in the right tail of the distribution indicating greater 
radiographic progression in the placebo group than in the golimumab groups. 
Assessment report  
Page 11/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Figure 5 Cumulative distribution plot of Modified van der Heijde Sharpe data at week 24. 
The CHMP is of the opinion that although indicative of a positive effect on structural damage, 24 weeks 
is  too  short  for  a  cumulative  distribution  plot  to  provide  any  useful  information  for  discussing  clinical 
relevance. 
Structural damage data by type of damage  
The change from baseline in modified vdH-S score at Week 24 by type of damage (ie, erosion and JSN) 
is provided in Table 5.  
Assessment report  
Page 12/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Table 5 Change from baseline in Modified van der Heijde Sharpe score at week 24 by type of damage. 
Further to the above-data, the CHMP stated that the effect demonstrated on Modified vdHS Total score 
is  entirely  due  to  an  effect  on  erosion  score.  The  lack  of  effect  on  joint  space  narrowing  is  not 
unexpected in a study of 24 weeks duration. 
Responder analysis 
There  were  more  patients  with  no  further  progression  of  structural  damage  at  week  24  in  the 
golimumab groups compared to the placebo group (Table 6). 
Table 6 Percentage of patient with no further progression of structural damage at week 24. 
The  CHMP  stated  that  in  a  study  with  placebo-controlled  phase  of  only  24  weeks  duration  the 
percentage  of  patients  with  no  further  deterioration  is  the  only  reasonable  responder  analysis  and 
found  it  not  obvious  why  the  analysis  is  not  based  on  the  number  of  randomised  patients.  However 
counting  the  excluded  patients  as  non-responders  would  not  change  the  results.  This  analysis  gives 
Assessment report  
Page 13/26
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
some indication that there is a number of patients that could have a clinically relevant beneficial effect 
on structural damage. 
Efficacy data beyond week 24 
The  results  of  the  analysis  of  the  change  from  baseline  in  total  modified  vdH-S  scores  Week  52  and 
104 with missing baseline data imputation rules applied is shown in Table 7.  
Table  7  Summary  of  change  from  baseline in  total  modified  van  der  Heijde  Sharp  score  at  Week  52 
and Week 104 (with imputation rules applied to all time points). 
The  lack  of  mean  difference  between  golimumab  and  placebo  is  proposed  to  be  explained  by  an 
imputed  change  from  baseline  of  78.6.  In  a  sensitivity  analysis  without  imputations  the  difference 
between 50 mg and placebo was consistent with the week 24 result. 
The percentage of patients with no further progression at week 52 and 104 is presented in Table 8 and 
9. 
Table  8  Number  of  patients  with  no  further  progression  of  structural  damage  between  baseline  and 
week 52. 
Assessment report  
Page 14/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Table 9 Number of patients with no further progression of structural damage between baseline and 
week 104. 
The CHMP noted that since all patients were treated with active treatment from week 24 no increasing 
effect  on  structural  damage  can  be  expected  at  week  52  and  104.  At  best  a  sustained  difference 
between  patients  initially  randomised  to  active  treatment  and  placebo  could  be  expected.  The 
explanation  for  the  lack  of  mean  difference  between  50  mg  and  placebo  (imputation  of  an  extreme 
value) can be accepted by the CHMP in the light of the sensitivity analysis without imputations and the 
responder  results  (which  are  not  sensitive  to  extreme  values)  in  Table  8  and  9  showing  that  the  24 
week responder rate at week 24 for the 50 mg dose is maintained at week 52 and 104. The observed 
increased responder rate in the initial placebo group must be due to a higher withdrawal rate among 
non-responders at week 24, since an initial no-responder cannot be expected to become a responder 
after switching to active treatment. 
Other endpoints at week 104 
In this application the MAH applies for several additions to section 5.1 based on results from the open 
label  extension  part  of  this  study.  Only  results  related  to  the  proposed  additions  to  the  SPC  are 
addressed below; namely ACR 20/50/70 response, PASI75, HAQ and DAS28.  
ACR 20, ACR 50, and ACR 70 Response After Week 52 Through Week 104 
The  proportion  of  golimumab  treated  subjects  who  achieved  ACR  20,  ACR  50,  and  ACR 70  responses 
after Week 52 through Week 104 by treatment group is presented in Table 10. 
Assessment report  
Page 15/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Table  10  Number  of  subjects  who  achieved  ACR  20,  ACR  50,  and  ACR  70  responses  after  Week  52 
through Week 104; randomized subjects who received golimumab 
The MAH applies to add the following wording: “Among 146 patients randomised to Simponi 50 mg, 70 
were  still  on  this  treatment  at  week  104.  Of  these  70  patients,  64,  46  and  31  patients  had  an  ACR 
20/50/70 response, respectively”. This wording is accepted by the CHMP.  
DAS28 (CRP) Responders After Week 52 Through Week 104 (see Table Attachment 3.11 below) 
Assessment report  
Page 16/26
 
 
 
 
   
 
The  MAH  applied  to  add  the  following  wording:  “Among  patients  who  remained  on  the  Simponi 
treatment to which they were randomised at study start, DAS28 and HAQ responses were maintained 
through week 104”. This wording is accepted by the CHMP.  
PASI 75 at week 104 
PASI  responses  were  analyzed  in  subjects  with  ≥  3%  BSA  (body  surface  area)  psoriasis  skin 
involvement at baseline. See Table 11 for week 104 results.  
Assessment report  
Page 17/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Table  11  Number  of  subjects  who  achieved  PASI  50, PASI  75, and  PASI  90  response  after  Week  52 
through  Week  104;  randomized  subjects  who  received  golimumab  and  who  had  a  >=  3%  BSA 
psoriasis skin involvement at baseline 
The  MAH  applies  for  the  following  wording:  “Of  the  109  patients  with  >  3%  BSA  involvement  at 
baseline  who  were  randomised  to  Simponi  50  mg,  48  were  still  on  this  treatment  at  week  104.  Of 
these  48  patients,  33  had  a  PASI  75  response.  It  is  not  agreed  to  include  this  level  of  data  for  a 
number of ‘other secondary endpoints’”. This wording was not accepted by CHMP. 
Health Assessment Questionnaire Responders Week 104 
The proportion of subjects who achieved an improvement from baseline in HAQ of ≥ 0.25 and ≥ 0.30 
at Week 52 and maintained this improvement from baseline in HAQ at Week 104 was summarized by 
treatment group (Table 12). 
Assessment report  
Page 18/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
SF-36 
The  MAH  applied  for  the  addition  of  the  following  wording:  “Among  patients  who  remained  on  the 
Simponi  treatment  to  which  they  were  randomised  at  study  start,  DAS  28  and  HAQ  responses  were 
maintained through week 104”. These changes are accepted by the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
Page 19/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Conclusions on clinical efficacy 
The joint damage claim is based on newly submitted X-ray data from and the long-term extension of 
study  C0524T08.  The  effect  of  golimumab  on  progression  of  joint  damage  was  assessed  using  the 
Modified van der Heijde-Sharpe, which is considered to be a valid instrument for assessment of X-ray 
data,  and  has  been  used  in  other  applications  for  the  same  claim.  The  primary  X-ray  analysis  was 
undertaken  by  comparing  24  weeks  placebo  and  golimumab  results.  Thereafter,  all  placebo  subjects 
were  switched  to  active  treatment.  There  was  also  an  option  for  early  escape  after  16  weeks.  The 
study was well conducted with only 17% of patient discontinuing during 104 weeks and with no major 
difference in withdrawal pattern with respect to amount or cause. 
Although the progression rate was limited in the placebo group due to the short duration (24 weeks), 
statistically significant differences in favour of active treatment was seen for mean change in Modified 
van der Heijde-Sharp score as well as for percentage of patients with no progression between baseline 
and  week  24    (78.8%  vs  62.7%  for  golimumab  and  placebo  respectively).  Considering  the  low 
withdrawal  rate  with  no  differential  withdrawal  pattern  and  consistent  results  in  sensitivity  analyses, 
there is no reason to question the robustness of these results.  
Concerning  maintenance  of  effect  an  increasing  positive  effect  on  structural  damage  cannot  be 
expected  in  study  C0524T08  since  all  patients  were  given  active  treatment  from  week  24.  At  best  a 
sustained  difference  between  patients  initially  randomised  to  active  treatment  and  placebo  could  be 
expected, and the percentage of patients with no progression between baseline and week 52 and week 
104 was similar to the responder rate at week 24 for patients initially randomised to active treatment.  
Although  the  data  is  too  limited  to  fully  evaluate  the  clinical  long  term  relevance  of  the  golimumab 
effects  on  structural  damage  in  patients  with  psoriatic  arthritis  it  can  be  concluded  that  a  substantial 
number  of  patients  could  experience  beneficial  effects  on  joint  damage  progression.  It  is  further 
considered that essential support can be gained from RA, where more knowledge about joint damage 
progression is available.  
Symmetric PsA shows greatest resemblance with RA, and in subgroup analyses performed by the MAH 
significant effects was observed in this PsA subtype only. This is consistent with experience from other 
anti-TNF  agents  for  which  an  effect  in  subjects  with  symmetrical  disease  has  been  shown,  while 
relevant  effects  in  subjects  with  asymmetrical  disease  have  been  less  convincing.  Thus  the  claim  on 
positive effects on structural damage has been restricted to the polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of 
PsA. 
The  MAH  also  applies  for  changes  to  section  5.1  of  the  SPC  to  include  a  number  of  endpoints.  These 
changes are agreed for all except PASI75 data, which was not accepted to be included by the CHMP.  
Clinical safety 
Introduction 
The  safety  data  presented  in  this  submission  focus  on  the  2-year  cumulative  safety  data  in  study 
C0524T08.  In addition,  available safety data are presented from other studies in rheumatologic and 
non-rheumatologic indications through the end of those studies or completed data base locks (DBLs), 
including a 2-year cut off in ongoing Phase 3 studies with SC golimumab in RA (C0524T05, C0524T06, 
C0524T11), and AS (C0524T09). The 2-year data in RA (three of these studies) have been submitted 
and reviewed within a recently ended procedure; II-08. Thus, the focus below will be data from T08. 
All data presented below are through week 104.  
Exposure: 
In the Phase 3 PsA study with SC golimumab, there were 394 subjects treated with golimumab, with 
the  vast  majority  (85.0%)  of  subjects  treated  for  >104  weeks.  Through  Week  100/104,  there  were 
similar numbers of subjects exposed to golimumab 50 mg and golimumab 100 mg (248 subjects and 
227 subjects, respectively) with a similar average number of administrations in both groups (18.2 and 
18.5,  respectively).  Most  subjects  received  golimumab  by  at  least  Week  24  (subjects  could  have 
entered early escape at Week 16 or crossed over to golimumab group from the placebo group before 
Week 24). 
Assessment report  
Page 20/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
As  a  result  of  this  study  design,  the  average  duration  of  follow  up  for  subjects  in  the  placebo  group 
(19.6  weeks)  was  substantially  shorter  than  the  average  duration  of  follow  up  for  subjects  in  the 
golimumab  treatment  groups  (75.1  weeks  and  76.3  weeks  for  the  golimumab  50  mg  and  100  mg 
groups,  respectively).  This  substantial  difference  in  exposure  to  placebo  and  golimumab  should  be 
taken into consideration when interpreting the data. 
All AEs: 
AEs occurred in 61.1% of the placebo group, 78.2% of subjects in the golimumab 50 mg group and in 
70.9%  of  subjects  in  the  golimumab  100  mg  group  with  similar  types  of  AEs  occurring  with  similar 
frequencies  in  the  golimumab  treatment  groups.  AEs  were  most  frequently  associated  with  the 
Infections  and  infestations  system-organ  class  with  upper  respiratory  tract  infection  being  the  most 
frequent  infection  occurring  in  20.6%  of  the  golimumab  50  mg  group  and  17.6%  of  the  golimumab 
100 mg group. 
Deaths: 
There  were  2  deaths  that  both  occurred  in  the  golimumab  50  mg  group.  One  subject  died  due  to  a 
metastatic  small  cell  lung  carcinoma,  and  the  other  subject  died  due  to  a  climbing  accident.  The 
incidence per 100 subject-years follow up was 0.56 in the golimumab 50 mg group (confidence interval 
[CI]: 0.07, 2.02). 
All SAEs: 
SAEs  occurred  in:  Placebo:  7.1%,  Golimumab  50  mg:  6.5%,  Golimumab  100  mg:  7.9%,  Combined 
Golimumab: 8.6%. SAEs were most frequently associated with the Infections and infestations system 
organ class and occurred in 3.5% (4 subjects) of subjects in the placebo group, 0.8% (2 subjects) of 
subjects  in  the  golimumab  50  mg  group,  1.3%  (3  subjects)  of  subjects  in  the  golimumab  100  mg 
group, and 1.3% (5 subjects) in the combined golimumab group. 
AEs leading to discontinuation: 
AEs leading to discontinuation occurred in 4.4% of subjects in the golimumab 50 mg group and 5.3% 
of  subjects  in  the  golimumab  100  mg  group.  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  of  study  agent  occurred 
most  frequently  in  the  Neoplasms  benign,  malignant  and  unspecified  (incl  cysts  and  polyps)  system-
organ  class  and  occurred  in  0.0%  (0  subjects)  of  the  placebo  group,  1.2%  (3  subjects)  of  the 
golimumab 50 mg group, and 2.2% (5 subjects) in the golimumab 100 mg group. 
Serious infections: 
Rerious  infections  were  observed  in  1.2%  of  subjects  in  the  golimumab  50  mg  group  and  1.3%  of 
subjects in the golimumab 100 mg group with similar types of serious infections occurring with similar 
frequencies across the golimumab treatment groups. See Table 15 below  
Assessment report  
Page 21/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Table 15 Number of subjects with 1 or more serious infections through Week 104 by MedDRA system-
organ class and preferred term; treated subjects in PsA Phase 3 study 
Malignancies Through Week 100/104: 
There  were  no  subjects  in  the  placebo  group,  3  subjects  in  the  golimumab  50  mg  group,  and  5 
subjects in the golimumab 100 mg group with malignancies. See Table 16 below. 
Assessment report  
Page 22/26
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Table 16 Number of subjects with 1 or more malignancies through Week 104; treated subjects in PsA 
Phase 3 study 
According  to  the  CHMP,  the  large  difference  in  duration  of  follow  up  should  be  considered,  and  thus 
these data are difficult to interpret. There were some cases of malignancy reported during the study, 
and  a  relation  to  treatment  cannot  be  excluded.  The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  product 
information and RMP address risk for malignancy adequately.  
Injection-site reactions: 
See Table below for an overview of number of injections and of injection reactions. No subject had  a 
severe injection-site reaction. 
Assessment report  
Page 23/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Table 17 Summary of injection-site reactions through Week 104 by intensity; treated subjects in PsA 
Phase 3 study 
The CHMP confirmed that the data on injection reactions do not raise any concerns.  
Serum sickness-like and anaphylactic reactions: 
There were no serum sickness-like reactions or anaphylactic reactions. 
Clinically important hepatobiliary events: 
There  was  1  subject  (0.9%)  in  the  placebo  group  and  1  subject  (0.3%)  in  the  combined  golimumab 
group  who  developed  1  or  more  clinically  important  hepatobiliary  AEs.  The  same  subject  (C0524T08 
5209-80378) had a clinically important hepatobiliary AE while receiving golimumab 50 mg and another 
clinically important hepatobiliary AE when receiving golimumab 100 mg. 
Markedly abnormal hematology or chemistry values: 
There were few subjects with > 1 markedly abnormal haematology value through Week 104. The most 
frequent changes included decreased absolute neutrophils which occurred in 0.0% (0 subjects) of the 
placebo  group,  0.8%  (2  subjects)  of  the  golimumab  50  mg  group,  and  3.8%  (8  subjects)  of  the 
golimumab  100  mg  group.  There  were  also  a  few  subjects  with  >  1  markedly  abnormal  chemistry 
value  through  Week  104.  The  most  frequent  changes  included  elevated  ALT/SGPT  which  occurred  in 
3.6%  (4  subjects)  of  the  placebo  group,  2.8%  (7 subjects)  of  the  golimumab  50  mg  group,  1.4%  (3 
subjects) of the golimumab 100 mg group, and 2.3% (9 subjects) of the combined golimumab group.  
Safety in Special Groups and Situations: 
There were  no meaningful differences observed with regard to safety based on baseline demographic 
characteristics (sex, weight, and race). 
Incidence of Antibodies to Golimumab 
The incidence of antibodies to golimumab through Week 104 is summarized in Table 18 below. 
Assessment report  
Page 24/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Of  the  8  subjects  who  were  positive  for  antibodies  to  golimumab  at  Week  52,  1  subject  (12.5%) 
remained  positive  at  Week  100  and  had  an  increased  antibody  titer.  Seven  subjects  changed  from 
positive  at  Week  52  to  negative  for  antibodies  at  Week  100.  All  subjects  who  were  negative  for 
antibodies to golimumab at Week 52 remained negative at Week 100.  
Conclusions on clinical safety 
The MAH submitted long-term extension data from the open label study T08, which included data up to 
2  years  of  treatment  of  PsA  patients  with  golimumab.  The  already  established  safety  profile  of 
golimumab  is  confirmed.  Infections,  including  some  serious  and  severe,  occurred  in  association  with 
golimumab treatment. There were in total 8 malignancies reported; all in golimumab treated subjects. 
The  large  difference  in  duration  of  follow  up  between  placebo  (19.6  weeks)  and  golimumab  (75-76 
weeks)  groups  should  be  considered.  Thus,  these  data  are  difficult  to  interpret,  but  a  relation  to 
treatment  cannot  be  excluded.  The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  product  information  and  RMP 
address risk for malignancy adequately.  
In summary, the safety profile of golimumab is comparable with that already well established for anti-
TNF agents. No new signals are identified.  
Risk Management Plan 
A new version of the EU Risk Management Plan (v.4.O, dated 19 November 2010) has been submitted 
within  the  submission  of  the  PSUR#3  on  December  2,  2010  (eCTD  sequence  0068).  This  document 
covers  both  the  PSUR  as  well  as  this  variation  application.  Based  on  the  data  included  in  this 
submission, no changes to the RMP are proposed. This is considered acceptable by the CHMP.  
Assessment report  
Page 25/26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Benefit-risk assessment 
The  MAH  applies  to  add  wording  to  the  PsA  indication,  to  reflect  data  on  structural  joint  damage 
measured  by  X-ray.  Changes  to  section  5.1  are  also  proposed.  These  claims  are  based  on  newly 
submitted  X-ray  data  from  the  long-term  extension  of  study  C0524T08.  This  study  was  the  basis  for 
the initial approval of PsA.  
The  effect  of  golimumab  on  progression  of  joint  damage  was  assessed  using  the  Modified  van  der 
Heijde-Sharpe,  which  is  considered  to  be  a  valid  instrument  for  assessment  of  X-ray  data,  and  has 
been  used  in  other  applications  for  the  same  claim.  The  primary  X-ray  analysis  was  undertaken  by 
comparing 24 weeks placebo and golimumab results. Thereafter, all placebo subjects were switched to 
active  treatment.  There  was  also  an  option  for  early  escape  after  16  weeks.  The  study  was  well 
conducted  with  only  17%  of  patient  discontinuing  during  104  weeks  and  with  no  major  difference  in 
withdrawal pattern with respect to amount or cause. 
Although the progression rate was limited in the placebo group due to the short duration (24 weeks), 
statistically significant differences in favour of active treatment was seen for mean change in Modified 
van der Heijde-Sharp score as well as for percentage of patients with no progression between baseline 
and  week  24    (78.8%  vs  62.7%  for  golimumab  and  placebo  respectively).  Considering  the  low 
withdrawal  rate  with  no  differential  withdrawal  pattern  and  consistent  results  in  sensitivity  analyses, 
there is no reason to question the robustness of these results.  
Concerning  maintenance  of  effect  an  increasing  positive  effect  on  structural  damage  cannot  be 
expected  in  study  C0524T08  since  all  patients  were  given  active  treatment  from  week  24.  At  best  a 
sustained  difference  between  patients  initially  randomised  to  active  treatment  and  placebo  could  be 
expected, and the percentage of patients with no progression between baseline and week 52 and week 
104 was similar to the responder rate at week 24 for patients initially randomised to active treatment.  
Although  the  data  is  too  limited  to  fully  evaluate  the  clinical  long  term  relevance  of  the  golimumab 
effects  on  structural  damage  in  patients  with  psoriatic  arthritis  it  can  be  concluded  that  a  substantial 
number  of  patients  could  experience  beneficial  effects  on  joint  damage  progression.  It  is  further 
considered that essential support can be gained from RA, where more knowledge about joint damage 
progression is available.  
Symmetric PsA shows greatest resemblance with RA, and in subgroup analyses performed by the MAH 
significant effects was observed in this PsA subtype only. This is consistent with experience from other 
anti-TNF  agents  for  which  an  effect  in  subjects  with  symmetrical  disease  has  been  shown,  while 
relevant  effects  in  subjects  with  asymmetrical  disease  have  been  less  convincing.  Thus  the  claim  on 
positive effects on structural damage has been restricted to the polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of 
PsA. 
The  MAH  also  applies  for  changes  to  section  5.1  of  the  SPC  to  include  number  of  endpoints.  The 
inclusion of PASI75 data was not agreed by the CHMP.  
With respect to safety, the MAH has submitted long-term extension data from the open label study T08, 
which  included  data  up  to  2  years  of  treatment  of  PsA  patients  with  golimumab.  The  already 
established  safety  profile  of  golimumab  is  confirmed.  Infections,  including  some  serious  and  severe, 
occurred in association with golimumab treatment. There were in total 8 malignancies reported; all in 
golimumab treated subjects. The large difference in duration of follow up between placebo (19.6 weeks) 
and golimumab (75-76 weeks) groups should be considered. Thus, these data are difficult to interpret, 
but  a  relation  to  treatment  cannot  be  excluded.  The  product  information  and  RMP  address  risk  for 
malignancy, as well as the other well-established safety concerns related to treatment with an anti-TNF 
agent  adequately.  Thus,  the  safety  profile  of  golimumab  is  comparable  with  that  already  well 
established for anti-TNF agents. No new signals are identified.  
The benefit-risk balance for Simponi is positive in this new indication. Furthermore, the submitted data 
do not modify the current benefit-risk balance. 
Assessment report  
Page 26/26
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
