European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/446762/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Simponi 
International Nonproprietary Name: golimumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000992 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 12 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 17 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 59 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 63 
2/70 
 
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Centocor B.V. submitted on 3 March 2008 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Simponi,  through  the  centralised  procedure  falling 
within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA): 
Simponi, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for: 
•   the  treatment  of  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy including MTX has been inadequate. 
•   the treatment of active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients not previously treated with MTX. 
Simponi has also been shown to improve physical function and health related quality of life. Simponi 
can be used in patients previously treated with one or more TNF inhibitor(s). 
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA): 
Simponi, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for: 
The  treatment  of  active  psoriatic  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  previous  disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate. Simponi has also been shown 
to improve physical function and health related quality of life. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS): 
Simponi is indicated for: 
The  treatment  of  active  ankylosing  spondylitis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  conventional 
therapy has been inadequate. Simponi has also been shown to improve physical function and health 
related quality of life. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 24 March 2004, 17 March 2005 and 21 
April 2005. The Scientific Advice pertained to quality and clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  
Co-Rapporteur:  Pierre Demolis 
Tomas Salmonson 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 3 March 2008. 
The procedure started on 26 March 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  13  June 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 19 
June 2008.  
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  July  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 July 2008. 
3/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  17 
October 2008. 
The  summary  report  of  the  inspection  carried  out  at  the  following  site(s)  Centocor  BV  - 
Einsteinweg 101 - Leiden - Netherlands between 17 March 2009 and 20 March 2009 was issued 
on 8 May 2009 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 28 November 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 15-18 December 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 20 May 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list 
of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 8 June 2009. 
During the meeting on 22 – 25 June 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Simponi  on  25  June  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 24 June 2009. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
This application for Simponi concerned three indications - rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis 
(PsA), and ankylosing spondylitis (AS). 
Rheumatoid Arthritis 
RA  is  an  autoimmune  disease  that  causes  chronic  inflammation  of  the  joints.  RA,  which  affects 
approximately 1% of the population, is more prevalent among women than men and usually develops 
in  the  fourth  or  fifth  decades  of  life.  While  the  exact  pathogenesis  of  RA  is  still  unknown,  it  is 
characterized  by  accumulation  and  activation  of  several  cell  systems  such  as  T-cells,  B-cells, 
macrophage- and fibroblast-like cells which produce large amounts of proinflammatory cytokines. The 
resulting  hyperplastic  synovial  membrane,  in  conjunction  with  osteoclast  activation,  leads  to  the 
degradation of adjacent cartilage and bone. RA is typically a progressive illness that has the potential 
to cause joint destruction and functional disability. 
The aims of antirheumatic therapy are to relieve pain, to decrease inflammatory synovitis, to improve 
or  sustain  physical  function  and  to  prevent  structural  damage  of  the  joints.  The  use  of  targeted 
biological  agents  such  as  tumour  necrosis  factor  alpha  (TNFα)  or  interleukin-6  (IL-6)  receptor 
inhibitors/antagonists  has  been  established  during  the  last  decade.  Today,  a  number  of  biological 
antirheumatic agents are approved in the EU for treatment of both treatment naïve patients as well as 
those not responding adequately to other disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD). However, 
there is still a medical need since about 30% of patients fail on these therapies. 
Psoriatic Arthritis 
PsA is a chronic, inflammatory arthritis associated with psoriasis. The prevalence of psoriasis in the 
general  Caucasian  population  is  approximately  2%;  approximately  6%  to  42%  of  psoriasis  patients 
develop PsA. Affecting men and women equally, PsA typically appears between the ages of 30 and 50 
years. PsA usually involves multiple peripheral joints, the axial skeleton, sacroiliac joints, fingernails, 
and entheses. The presentation of PsA has been categorized into 5 overlapping clinical patterns, which 
include  oligoarthritis,  polyarthritis,  arthritis  of  distal  interphalangeal  (DIP)  joints,  spondylitis,  and 
arthritis mutilans. While PsA has some symptoms similar to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) (e.g. joint pain 
and destruction and fatigue), it can be distinguished from RA by one or more factors such as presence 
of  psoriasis;  seronegativity  for  rheumatoid  factor  (RF)  (>  80%  of  patients);  patterns  of  joint 
involvement including asymmetry, distal interphalangeal disease, and spinal disease. Overall PsA and 
RA are closely related diseases and have similar approved products. 
4/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ankylosing Spondylitis 
AS  is  a  chronic  inflammatory  disease  of  unknown  etiology  that  involves  the  sacroiliac  joints,  axial 
skeleton, entheses, and peripheral joints. Its prevalence has been estimated to be between 0.1-1.1% of 
the population. Chronic inflammation of entheses leads to new bone formation, syndesmophytes, and 
ankylosis  of joints,  primarily  in the  axial  skeleton.  It  is this axial ankylosis  that may  lead to loss  of 
range  of  motion  and  to  disability.  The  disease  may  also  have  nonskeletal  manifestations,  including 
uveitis, carditis, pulmonary fibrosis, and cardiac conduction abnormalities. AS belongs to the group of 
spondyloarthropathies and is associated with the presence of the HLA-B27 allele. Although patients 
may experience a variety of musculoskeletal symptoms (such as arthralgias and morning stiffness), the 
most  common  presenting  symptom  is  low-back  pain.  These  musculoskeletal  symptoms  may  be 
associated with constitutional symptoms, such as fatigue, fever, and weight loss. Physical therapy has 
a positive effect on stiffness, spinal mobility and even pain. Pharmacological treatment of AS includes 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), systemic or intraarticular corticosteroids, sulfasalzine 
and methotrexate (MTX). More recently, TNFα-inhibitors have shown efficacy in the active disease 
and have been incorporated into the treatment of active moderate to severe AS patients who have had 
an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 
TNFα is considered a key inflammatory mediator that exhibits a wide variety of functional activities. 
Abnormally  high  levels  of  TNFα  have  been  implicated  in  the  pathophysiology  of  several  immune-
mediated diseases, including RA, PsA, and AS. Binding of TNF by an anti-TNF antibody prevents the 
target  from  binding  to  cell  surface  TNF  receptors,  and  consequently  prevents  downstream  signaling 
cascades  and  deleterious  effects  of  inappropriate or excessive TNF  expression. Treatment  with  anti-
TNFα agents has been demonstrated to significantly improve signs and symptoms, physical function, 
and  health-related  QOL  in  subjects  affected  by  these  rheumatologic  disorders.  Treatment  with  anti-
TNFα agents has also been shown to inhibit structural damage in subjects affected by RA and PsA. 
Golimumab (also known as CNTO 148 and rTNV148B), the active substance of Simponi, is a human 
immunoglobulin G1κ (IgG1κ) monoclonal antibody. It binds with high affinity and specificity to both 
soluble  and  transmembrane  forms  of  TNFα,  thereby  neutralizing  the  biological  activity  of  TNFα. 
Golimumab is produced by a murine hybridoma cell line with recombinant DNA technology. 
The  application  for  marketing  authorisation  for  Simponi  was  a  full  application  for  a  new  active 
substance.  The  assessment  has  taken  into  account  the  recommendations  provided  in  the  relevant 
CHMP  guidelines  within  these  respective  disease  areas,  i.e.  Clinical  Investigation  of  Medicinal 
Products  for  the  Treatment  of  Psoriatic  Arthritis  (CHMP/EWP/438/04),  Points  to  Consider  on  the 
Clinical  Investigation  of  Medicinal  Products  other  than  NSAIDs 
in  Rheumatoid  Arthritis 
(CHMP/EWP/556/95) and the draft Guideline on Clinical Investigation of Medicinal Products for the 
Treatment of Ankylosing Spondylitis (CPMP/EWP/4891/03). 
Scientific advice has been given by the CHMP for the clinical development of golimumab in psoriatic 
arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis. 
The initial indications proposed at the time of application were: 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
Simponi, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for:  
• 
the treatment of active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the response to disease 
modifying anti rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy including MTX has been inadequate.  
the treatment of active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients not previously treated with 
MTX. 
• 
Simponi has also been shown to improve physical function and health related quality of life. 
Simponi can be used in patients previously treated with one or more TNF inhibitor(s). 
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
Simponi, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for: 
5/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  treatment  of  active  psoriatic  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  previous 
disease modifying anti rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate. Simponi has 
also been shown to improve physical function and health related quality of life. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Simponi is indicated for: 
The  treatment  of  active  ankylosing  spondylitis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to 
conventional therapy has been inadequate. Simponi has also been shown to improve physical 
function and health related quality of life. 
The approved indications are: 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
Simponi,  in  combination  with  methotrexate  (MTX),  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to 
severe,  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy including MTX has been inadequate.  
Simponi has also been shown to improve physical function in this patient population.  
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
Simponi, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive 
psoriatic  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  previous  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic 
drug  (DMARD)  therapy  has  been  inadequate.  Simponi  has  also  been  shown  to  improve  physical 
function in this patient population. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Simponi is indicated for the treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis in adult patients who 
have responded inadequately to conventional therapy.  
Simponi  is  a  clear  to  slightly  opalescent,  colourless  to  light  yellow  sterile  solution  for  injection 
containing  golimumab  at  100  mg/ml.  The  product  is  supplied  in  pre-filled,  single-use  pens  and 
syringes containing 50 mg golimumab. 
In all indications, the posology is Simponi 50 mg given as a subcutaneous injection once a month, on 
the same date each month. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  drug  substance  golimumab  is  a  recombinant  human  monoclonal  antibody  directed  against  both 
soluble  and  transmembrane  forms  of  human  TNFα,  which  prevents  the  binding  of  TNFα  to  its 
receptors, thereby neutralising its biological activity. 
Golimumab  is  derived  from  a  Sp2/0  cell  line  that  has  been  transfected  with  an  expression  plasmid 
containing the genes encoding the heavy and light chains.  
A  two-tiered  cell  banking  system  of  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB)  and  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB)  was 
developed. The drug substance is manufactured in a 9 stage process. The fermentation process uses a 
continuous perfusion mode in a bioreactor. The purification, from the cell culture harvest, includes a 
series of chromatography steps, ultra-diafiltration steps and viral inactivation and filtration steps. 
The  drug  product  is  manufactured  by  sterile  filtration,  aseptic  filling  and  stoppering  of  pre-filled 
syringes  which  are  then  assembled  into  a  device  for  subcutaneous  administration  (single-use  auto-
injector or passive needle guard delivery system (UltraSafe)).  
6/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance  
Nomenclature 
INN Name: 
Compendial Name: 
USAN/JAN: 
Laboratory Code Name: 
CAS Registry Number: 
Other Names: 
golimumab 
not applicable 
golimumab 
CNTO 148 
476181-74-5 
Immunoglobulin  G1,  anti-  (human  tumor  necrosis  factor  α)  (human 
monoclonal  CNTO  148  γ1-chain),  disulfide  with  human  monoclonal 
CNTO 148 κ-chain, dimer 
Description of the active substance 
Golimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody of IgG1 kappa subclass composed of two 
heavy chains (approximately 50 kDa each) and two lights chains (approximately 24 kDa each), with 
16 disulfide bonds. Golimumab contains two N-glycans.  
•  Manufacture 
Cell  culture,  purification,  and  analytical  testing  of  process  intermediates  and  CNTO  148  bulk  drug 
substance  (formulated  bulk)  are  conducted  at  Centocor  B.V.  Einsteinweg  101  2333  CB  Leiden  The 
Netherlands. 
Development genetics 
The cell substrate was derived from  murine myeloma origin (Sp2/0-Ag14 (Sp2/0) host cells). Sp2/0 
cells were transfected with two expression plasmids containing the genes encoding golimumab heavy 
and light chains, following by cloning and subcloning steps to select one high-producing clone. 
Cell bank system 
A  two-tiered  cell  banking  system  of  MCB  and  WCB  has  been  developed  and  maintained  in 
accordance to cGMP and ICH guidelines. 
Seed  cells  corresponding  to  the  high-producing  clone  were  adapted  to  growth  in  a  medium  not 
containing  foetal  bovine  serum,  leading  to  the  establishment  of  the  original  MCB  and  WCB. 
Procedures  followed  for  the  preparation  of  MCB  and  WCB  were  appropriately  described.  An 
extensive  range  of  tests  has  been  performed  for  their  characterisation,  in  accordance  with  ICH 
guidelines, including identity, viability, stability, presence of adventitious agents. 
Fermentation process 
The fermentation process corresponds to stages 1 and 2 of the drug substance manufacturing process: 
- Stage 1 - preculture and expansion: 
Preculture is initiated from a single WCB vial and subsequent expansion of the cell culture in culture 
flasks,  disposable  culture  bags,  and seed  bioreactor. The  cells are  cultured  until the  cell  density  and 
volume required for inoculation of the production bioreactor are obtained. 
- Stage 2: bioreactor production: 
The  contents  of  the  seed  bioreactor  are  transferred  into  the  production  bioreactor  containing  a 
chemically-defined  medium.  Cell  culture  harvest  is  collected  from  the  production  bioreactor  while 
cells are retained using a cell-retention device, and the culture is replenished with fresh media.  
Purification process 
Purification of golimumab from the cell culture harvest is performed in stages 3 through 8: 
- Stage 3: Affinity chromatography; 
- Stage 4: thawing and pooling of direct product capture (DPC) eluates; 
7/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Stage 5: Viral inactivation by solvent/detergent treatment; 
- Stage 6: cation exchange chromatography; 
- Stage 7: anion exchange chromatography; 
- Stage 8: virus retentive filtration. 
Preparation  of  the  pre-formulated  bulk  and  formulated  bulk  drug  substance  is  performed  in  stage  9 
which comprises an ultrafiltration step to concentrate the drug substance, a diafiltration step to add the 
formulation excipients and remove in-process buffer salts, and a 0.2 µm filtration. 
The formulated bulk drug substance is stored at ≤ -40°C. 
Manufacturing process development and process validation 
Throughout development, changes have been introduced in the drug substance manufacturing process, 
including  a  new  cell  line,  cell  retention  technology,  elimination  of  animal-derived  raw  materials, 
formulation,  manufacturing  scale,  manufacturing  sites.  A  comprehensive  process  manufacturing 
history  was  provided,  showing  the  different  changes  introduced,  and  the  corresponding  batches 
involved, as well as the use of these batches.  
Process validation studies provided covers aspects of: 
 i) Analysis of process consistency; 
ii) Removal of process- and product-related impurities (full scale and reduced scale);  
iii) Hold times and conditions for all process intermediates;  
iv) Chromatography resin lifetime;  
v) Reprocessing at five points in the manufacturing process; 
vi)  Integrity  of  the  expression  construct,  authenticity  of  the  cell  line  and  ability  to  run  the 
manufacturing process. 
The approach used for process validation mainly consists of demonstrating that the process is capable 
of  producing  batches  that  meet  all  requirements  with  respect  to  in-process  controls  (IPC),  critical 
quality attributes (CQA) and process parameters (PP). 
Characterisation 
A) Elucidation of structure and other characteristics: 
A1) Physicochemical characterisation: 
- Primary structure: 
Expected N- and C-terminal amino acid sequences for the heavy and light chains were confirmed by 
Edman degradation, peptide mapping and intact molecular mass analysis. The heavy chain showed C-
terminal lysine heterogeneity.  
Expected  internal  amino  acid  sequences  of  the  heavy  and  light  chains  were  confirmed  by  peptide 
mapping with online mass spectrometry analysis. Post-translational modifications were identified and 
correspond primarily for the heavy chain to partial removal of the C-terminal lysine, N-glycosylation 
and  deamidation.  Low  levels  of  deamidation  on  the  heavy  chain  and  cyclisation  on  the  light  chain 
were also detected.  
The  expected  disulfide  bond  structure  for  a  human  IgG1  was  confirmed  by  peptide  mapping  under 
non-reduced conditions. Two intra-chain disulfide bonds in each light chain, four intra-chain disulfide 
bonds in each heavy chain, and three inter-chain disulfide bonds were identified. 
A low level of free sulfhydryls was detected using Ellman's reagent. 
- Carbohydrate structure: 
The N-linked glycan structures were determined to be biantennary, core-fucosylated oligosaccharide 
structures  with  terminal  galactose  and  sialic  heterogeneity.  No  galactosamine  (from  O-glycans)  was 
detected.  
8/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serial exoglycosidase digestion confirmed the structures identified by oligosaccharide analysis. 
- Higher order structure: 
Far-UV  circular  dichroism  spectroscopy  detected  predominantly  beta-sheet  secondary  structure, 
typical  of  IgG1  proteins.  Near-UV  circular  dichroism  spectroscopy  showed  spectral  results 
characteristic of an IgG1 protein.  
Sedimentation  velocity  analytical  ultracentrifugation  analysis  detected  mainly  monomeric  IgG,  with 
small amounts of aggregates and fragments also present.  
- Microheterogeneity: 
Mass spectrometry analysis of the intact protein and reduced and alkylated heavy chain and light chain 
revealed  the  presence  of  mass  microheterogeneity  and  identified  the  primary  causes  as  N-
glycosylation and C-terminal lysine heterogeneity on the heavy chain.  
The  charge  isoforms  of  golimumab  observed  by  isoelectric  focusing  (IEF)  were  identified  as 
deamidated species containing aspartic acid and isoaspartic acid on the heavy chain, and as sialylated 
variants of the same species. Potency and binding affinities for isolated major charge isoforms were 
indistinguishable from each other and from the reference standard. 
There were no substantial differences in the rates of clearance for the various glycoforms in vivo based 
on affinity capture and analysis of mass spectrometry analysis of patient samples. 
A2) Biological characterisation: 
Antigen-binding  activity  was  analysed  by  an  in  vitro  cell-based  bioactivity  assay  and  a  sandwich 
enzyme immunoassay.  
The Fc integrity, characterised with respect to FcγRI and FcRn binding, established that golimumab 
has a functionally intact Fc; however, Fc function is not part of the mechanism of action. 
Golimumab binding affinity to human TNFα trimer was established by surface plasmon resonance and 
kinetic exclusion assay. 
B) Impurities: 
Product-related substances and impurities correspond to: 
- N-glycosylation on the heavy chain; 
- Removal of C-terminal Lysine on the heavy chain; 
- Deamidation on the heavy chain; 
- Dimeric aggregate formation; 
- Hinge region cleavage. 
Potential  process-related  impurities  include  cell  substrate  derived  impurities  (host  cell  proteins,  host 
cell  DNA,  retroviruses),  media  components  and  downstream-derived  impurities  such  as  leached 
protein A. 
•  Specification  
The drug substance release specifications, including tests for identity, impurities, potency, quantity 
and general attributes, are acceptable and well justified.   
•  Stability 
The design of the stability program, including the testing intervals and temperature storage conditions, 
are in accordance with current ICH guidelines. The tests chosen are a subset of tests from the release 
specifications selected for stability-indicating properties.  
The stability data provided were within the specifications and support the proposed shelf life when 
stored at ≤ -40°C. 
9/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The drug product is a solution for subcutaneous administration (50 mg/0.5 mL) supplied in a single-
use  pre-filled  syringe. The  drug  product is  formulated  with  L-histidine,  sorbitol,  polysorbate  80 and 
water for injections. These excipients are commonly used in formulating protein pharmaceuticals. 
The pre-filled syringe is assembled into either an auto-injector (called SmartJect) or a passive needle 
guard delivery system (called UltraSafe). 
Throughout drug product development, changes have been introduced, including a new formulation, 
primary container and manufacturing site. 
These different changes were supported by several comparability studies.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
No  animal-derived  raw  materials  were  used  in  the  preparation  of  the  MCB  or  WCBs  and  in  the 
manufacturing  of  Simponi.  Only  cells  prior  to  the  Research  Cell  Bank  (RCB)  were  cultivated  with 
foetal  bovine  serum  (FBS).  Data  were  provided  to  support  the  use  of  FBS.  MCB,  WCBs,  host  cell 
lines and end-of-production cells were tested for bovine viruses and no contamination was detected. 
Safety concerning TSE is considered sufficiently assured. 
Control  of  potential  contamination  by  other  non-viral  adventitious  agents  (mycoplasma,  bioburden, 
endotoxin) was considered adequate. 
Extensive  screening  for  viruses  was  performed.  Raw  material  controls  minimise  the  risk  of  viral 
contamination,  and  clearance  studies  provide  assurance  that  any  potential  virus  will  be  removed  or 
inactivated by the manufacturing process (solvent/detergent virus inactivation step and virus removal 
filtration  step  in  addition  to  the  viral  clearance  achieved  through  orthogonal  chromatographic  unit 
operations (Protein A chromatography and anion exchange chromatography)). 
•  Manufacture of the product 
The  frozen  formulated  bulk  drug  substance  is  thawed,  pooled,  mixed,  sterile  filtered  (0.2 µm)  and 
aseptically  filled  into  sterile  1  mL  Type  1  borosilicate  glass  syringes  stoppered  with  a  tetra 
fluoroethylene  polymer  coated  butyl  rubber  stopper.  These  operations  take  place  at  Baxter 
Pharmaceutical Solutions, USA. 
The  pre-filled  syringes  are  shipped  to  Cilag  AG,  Switzerland  and  assembled  into  a  needle  safety 
device (UltraSafe Passive Safety System) or in a pre-filled pen (Centocor Autoinjector / SmartJect). 
The drug product manufacturing process is monitored by process variables, including both inputs (i.e. 
process  parameters)  and  outputs  (i.e.  process  monitoring)  that  are  controlled  throughout  the 
manufacturing process to ensure both process and product consistency. 
Manufacture  of  the  pre-filled  syringe  and  its  assembly  into  a  device  has  been  validated.  Process 
validation provided a documented, thorough understanding of the ability of the manufacturing process 
to consistently and reliably meet predetermined product specifications and quality attributes.  
Drug  product  characterisation  was  performed  on  validation  batches  and  includes  a  comprehensive 
analysis  of  primary  structure,  carbohydrate  structure,  higher  order  structure,  heterogeneity,  purity, 
biological function, and particulate matter.  These studies show similar variants as described for the 
drug substance. 
•  Product specifications 
The drug product specifications include control of the product in the pre-filled syringe, the pre-filled 
syringe  in  the  pen  and  the  pre-filled  syringe  in  the  UltraSafe  delivery  system,  and  contain  tests  for 
identity, impurities, potency, quantity, device functionality and general attributes. 
10/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability of the Product 
Real-time and accelerated stability studies were initiated in accordance with ICH guidelines and per 
protocol to monitor the time-temperature stability of cGMP lots of drug product. On the basis of the 
data provided, the approvable shelf life for the drug product is one year at 2-8°C. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The generation of the original cell line, from the expression construct to the selection process was well 
described. Cell banks have been established and adequately characterised.  
The  drug  substance  manufacturing  process  was  well  described.  Issues  raised  during  the  evaluation 
procedure  on  the  validation  and  control  strategy  were  adequately  addressed  by  the  Applicant. 
Sufficient  in-process  controls  are  in  place  and  the  proposed  acceptance  criteria  are  considered 
acceptable.  
Process validation for the drug substance manufacturing process was considered acceptable.  
Thorough  characterisation  studies  were  reported,  where  the  applicant  has  used  state-of-the-art 
techniques  in  the  analyses  of  primary  structure,  oligosaccharide  structure,  higher  order  structure, 
microheterogeneity, purity and impurities, biological function, degradation pathways. 
The proposed shelf life for the drug substance was considered acceptable. 
The pharmaceutical development of the drug product was considered satisfactory. 
The  drug  product  manufacturing  process  was  adequately  described.  Appropriate  controls  and 
acceptance criteria are in place. Process validation was considered acceptable. 
The description and validation of analytical procedures for the drug substance and drug product were 
generally  satisfactory  except  for  certain  methods  for  which  additional  information  was  requested. 
These issues have been solved. 
Most of the issues identified during the evaluation procedure on the control of the drug substance and 
setting of specifications also applied to the drug product. All the concerns were considered resolved. 
The Applicant has revised the drug substance and drug product specifications; the acceptance criteria 
for most tests have been tightened and are acceptable.  
On the basis of the stability data provided, a shelf life of 12 months at 2-8°C for the drug product is 
considered acceptable.  
Viral safety and safety concerning other adventitious agents including TSE are sufficiently assured. To 
further confirm the robustness of the virus removal steps, the applicant will undertake a post-approval 
study repeating part of the validation using a small non-enveloped DNA virus. 
The  drug  substance  manufacturing  site,  Centocor  BV  in  Leiden, The  Netherlands,  was inspected  by 
the  Dutch  inspectorate  in  March  2009.  This  site  operates  in  accordance  to  current  EU  Good 
Manufacturing Practices (GMP). 
Except for a number of points, which will be addressed as part of post-approval follow-up measures, 
the overall Quality of Simponi is considered acceptable. 
11/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The non-clinical testing strategy to support development of golimumab was designed and conducted in 
accordance  with the  ICH  S6  guidance  for  the  preclinical  safety  evaluation  of biotechnology-derived 
pharmaceuticals. The cynomolgus monkey was chosen as the most relevant non-clinical species, since 
golimumab  showed  little  or  no  neutralization  of  dog,  rabbit,  mouse  or  rat  TNFα.  For  the  studies  in 
mice,  an  analogous  anti-mouse  TNFα  monoclonal  antibody  designated  cV1q,  developed  during  the 
non-clinical testing of another TNFα inhibitor, infliximab (Remicade), was used. 
Two  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  performed  with  material  from  the  original  hybridoma 
cell  line  C420A  (a  pharmacokinetic  study  and  an  arthritis  efficacy  study  in  a  mouse).  All  other 
primary pharmacodynamic studies, safety pharmacology studies, toxicology studies and clinical trials 
were  performed  with  golimumab  purified  from  cell  line  C466D  or  C524A.  The  liquid  formulation 
generated  from  the  C524A  cell  line  was  used  in  all  Phase  3  clinical  studies  and  represents  the 
formulation intended for marketing. 
Relevant non-clinical studies were undertaken in accordance with GLP. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Golimumab binds with high affinity and specificity to both the soluble and transmembrane bioactive 
forms of TNFα. With a KD value of 18 pM the affinity of golimumab for soluble TNFα was 2.4-fold 
greater than infliximab (KD of 44 pM), while the affinity of both mAbs for transmembrane TNFα was 
similar  (1.89  nM  and 1.62  nM, respectively).  As  expected,  large  complexes  were  observed  between 
bivalent  golimumab  and  TNFα  trimers,  and  in  antibody  excess  the  molecular  weight  of  these 
complexes  was  consistent  with  three  golimumab  molecules  bound  to  one  or  two  TNFα  trimers. 
Golimumab was shown to inhibit the binding of human TNFα to p55 and p75 TNFα receptor fusion 
protein in a competition assay format;  
No  binding  to  other  representative  members  of  the  TNFα  ligand  superfamily  (lymphotoxin  alpha, 
lymphotoxin  alpha/beta  heterotrimer,  TRAIL  and  glycocorticoid-induced  TNF  receptor  ligand)  was 
seen. 
Golimumab  potency  to  neutralize  TNFα-mediated  cellular  responses  was  tested  in  three  separate  in 
vitro bioassays. In comparison to infliximab, golimumab showed the same, or in some experiments, a 
slightly higher potency. 
Golimumab  was  most  potent  against  human  and  chimpanzee  TNFα  (IC50  ~3  ng/ml);  the  IC50  for 
golimumab  was  10-60  fold  higher  against  baboon,  rhesus,  cynomolgus,  pigtail  macaque  and  dog 
TNFα and  400-4,300  fold higher  against  marmoset,  cottontop  tamarin, rabbit  and  guinea pig TNFα. 
No  neutralization  of  rat  or  mouse  TNFα  by  golimumab  was  observed.  Therefore,  the  cynomolgus 
monkey  was  chosen  as  the  pharmacologically  and  toxicologically  relevant  species.  Using  purified 
recombinant cynomolgus TNFα, golimumab was shown to have 34-fold less affinity and to be 72-fold 
less potent in neutralizing cynomolgus TNFα compared to affinity and neutralization of human TNFα.  
Investigations were also performed in vivo in a mouse model of arthritis. A single dose of golimumab 
(1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg) significantly delayed onset of clinical symptoms compared to a vehicle control 
group.  Histology  showed  golimumab  dose-dependent  improvement  in  joint  architecture  that  was 
statistically  significant  at  a  dose  of  30  mg/kg  compared  to  vehicle-treated  transgenic  mice.  Serum 
concentrations  of  GM-CSF,  MCP-1,  KC,  G-CSF,  IP-10  and  IL-6  were  elevated  in  the  serum  of 
vehicle-treated transgenic mice and reduced by treatment with golimumab. 
12/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies were undertaken. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
In  accordance  with  relevant  guidance  documents,  safety  pharmacology  endpoints  were  incorporated 
into the toxicology testing. No adverse effects of golimumab were observed in safety pharmacology 
evaluations  for  cardiovascular,  respiratory  and  CNS  safety  following  single  or  repeated  dosing  of 
cynomolgus monkeys via intravenous or subcutaneous administration at doses up to 50 mg/kg once or 
twice  weekly  for  up  to  6 months.  However,  the  indirect  measurements  of  blood  pressure  performed 
during the toxicology studies showed occasional large variations including unusually low values. The 
heart  rate  measured  under  the  same  conditions  showed  values  much  higher  than  those  observed  in 
freely moving animals. Tachycardia, here probably resulting from restraining of the animals, is well 
known to blunt any potential effect on rhythm disturbance or effect on cardiac repolarisation. For these 
reasons it seems impossible to reasonably conclude about any potential impact of golimumab on the 
cardiovascular system. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No non-clinical pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were conducted with golimumab. Due to 
the high binding specificity of golimumab for its target, TNFα, it is unlikely to have pharmacodynamic 
interactions with co-administered drugs. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The majority of PK and toxicokinetic (TK) data were generated as part of the toxicology studies, to 
assess  golimumab  exposure  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  following  single  and  multiple  intravenous  and 
subcutaneous administrations at doses ranging from 1 to 50 mg/kg. No non-clinical pharmacokinetic 
drug interaction studies have been performed. 
Following  subcutaneous  or  intravenous  administrations  in  cynomolgus  monkeys,  golimumab 
displayed approximately dose-proportional pharmacokinetics. Following multiple dosing, steady state 
was  reached  after  approximately  4  to  5  half-lives.  After  subcutaneous  administration,  the  Cmax  was 
generally observed within 2 to 3 days with an absolute bioavailability of at least 77%. In general, the 
volume  of  distribution  at  steady  state  was  slightly  larger  than  the  serum  volumes,  suggesting  a 
distribution  outside  the  intravascular  space.  When  considering  all  absorption  studies,  the  mean 
terminal  half-life  values  ranged  from  11  days  to  18  days.  No  obvious  gender  differences  in 
pharmacokinetic parameters were observed. 
When  golimumab  was  administered  to  pregnant  monkeys,  it  was  shown  to  cross  the  placenta  and 
substantial golimumab exposure was observed in the foetal circulation. Golimumab was also found in 
monkey breast milk. These findings are reflected in the SPC. 
Antibodies  to  golimumab  were  measured  in  non-clinical  studies  to  support  interpretation  of 
pharmaco/toxicokinetics  and  toxicological  observations.  The  incidence  of  antibodies  to  golimumab 
was greater at lower dose levels (3 and 10 mg/kg), than at higher dose levels (25 and 50 mg/kg). The 
high concentrations of circulating golimumab interfered with detection of anti-golimumab antibodies, 
making  it  difficult  to  determine  if  the  immune  response  declined  due  to assay  interference,  whether 
high-dose  tolerance  occurred  or  if  golimumab  inhibited  antibody  formation.  In  monkeys  that  tested 
positive  for  anti-golimumab  antibodies,  accelerated  CL  and  shortened  t1/2  were  observed.  It  has  not 
been  established  whether  the  formation  of  antibodies  to  golimumab  differed  between  monkeys 
administered  golimumab  via  intravenous  and  subcutaneous  routes;  however  the  cell  line  or 
formulation used appeared to have no obvious effect upon the immune response detected in monkeys. 
13/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
No golimumab single dose toxicity study was conducted. Acute toxicity has been addressed by data 
from single dose PK studies and from the repeated dose toxicity studies. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Golimumab was evaluated in subcutaneous and intravenous repeated-dose toxicity studies using doses 
up to 50 mg/kg either weekly or twice weekly. Supportive toxicology studies were conducted in mice 
using  the  analogous  anti-mouse  TNFα  monoclonal  antibody,  cV1q,  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  anti-
TNFα  treatment  on  reproductive  development  and  chronic  toxicity.  The  cV1q  antibody  has  been 
shown  to  exhibit  the  same  binding  specificity,  neutralization,  and in  vivo  activity  profile  for  mouse 
TNFα as golimumab demonstrates against human TNFα.  
An overview of the repeat-dose toxicity studies with golimumab in cynomolgus monkeys as well as 
the supportive study with the murine analogous molecule cV1q is given in Table 1. 
Table 1  Overview of the repeat-dose toxicity studies 
Study 
Number 
Species / 
Number of 
animals 
T-2002-001 
T-2000-007 
T-2004-006 
Cynomolgus 
monkey / 
8/sex/group 
Cynomolgus 
monkey / 
5/sex/group 
Cynomolgus 
monkey / 
8/sex/group 
T-098-004 
Mouse CD-1/ 
30/sex/group 
Dose Levels 
(mg/kg) / 
Rout of 
admin. 
0; 25; 50 
twice a week/ 
SC 
0; 10; 50 once 
a week/ 
IV 
0; 10; 50 once 
a week/ 
IV 
0; 10; 40 once 
a week/ 
IV 
Duration of 
dosing 
(Recovery 
period) 
3 or 6 months  
(3 months) 
1 month 
(37 days) 
6 months 
(3 months) 
3 or 6 months 
(3 months) 
Product 
NOAEL 
Golimumab 
derived from 
C524A cell line 
Golimumab 
derived from 
C466D cell line  
Golimumab 
derived from 
C524A cell line 
Analogous mouse 
anti-TNFα 
monoclonal 
antibody cV1q 
systemic 
toxicity:  
50 mg/kg  
50 mg/kg 
50 mg/kg 
40 mg/kg 
In cynomolgus monkeys, after 4-week intravenous administration of up to 50 mg/kg, no adverse effects 
were  seen  on  the  standard  parameters  studied.  The  NOAEL  was  set  to  50  mg/kg.  At  NOAEL,  the 
margin to maximum human exposure was approximately 600 (mean for male/female animals), based 
on Cmax values. 
In the 6-month subcutaneous study, using doses up to 50 mg/kg, no adverse effects due to golimumab 
treatment  were seen  on standard  parameters.  An increase  (between  1.5  to  2 times  control  values) in 
total  lymphocytes,  T-lymphocytes,  T-helper  lymphocytes,  T-cytotoxic/suppressor  lymphocytes,  and 
naïve T-lymphocytes was seen in both sexes and both treated groups. During the recovery period, no 
difference to controls was detected. Further, an increase in B-lymphocyte counts were seen and these 
changes remained during the recovery period. These results suggest a slight immunostimulatory effect; 
albeit  without  histopathological  correlates.  Several  organ  weights,  including  organs  of  the  immune 
system, were increased or decreased. Effects on the immune system organs weights are expected and 
also a known effect from other TNFα blockers. 
Despite  the  increase  in  total  lymphocytes,  it  is  agreed  by  the  assessor  that  a  NOAEL  can  be  set  to 
50 mg/kg,  which  gives  a  margin  to  maximum  human  exposure  of  approximately  600  (mean  for 
male/female animals), based on Cmax values and 50 based on AUC values. 
In the 6-month intravenous study, using doses up to 50 mg/kg, no adverse effects due to golimumab 
treatment were seen on standard parameters. As after subcutaneous administration a dose-dependent 
increase  (between  1.5  to  2  times  control  values)  in  most  monkeys  in  the  number  of  lymphocyte 
parameters. Males were generally affected more often, earlier, and for a longer duration than females. 
14/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  NOAEL  was  set  to  50  mg/kg  which  gives  a  margin  to  maximum  human  exposure  of 
approximately  650  (mean  for  male/female  animals),  based  on  Cmax  values  and  100  based  on  AUC 
values.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity studies as outlined in ICH S2B (1997) have not been conducted for golimumab. The lack 
of mutagenicity studies is reflected in the SPC (5.3). 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No  carcinogenicity  study  was  performed  with  golimumab  as  standard  rodent  studies  are  not 
meaningful  due  to  lack  of  pharmacologic  activity  in  this  species.  However,  with  the  current 
knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas or other malignancies in patients treated 
with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
The  lack  of  long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  is  reflected  in  the  SPC  and  addressed  in  the  risk 
management plan. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive  toxicity  was  evaluated  both  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  in  CD-1  mice,  using  the 
analogous  mouse  anti-TNFα  antibody  cV1q.  An  overview  of  these  studies  including  noteworthy 
findings  is  given  in  Table  2.  Although  the  relevance  of  the  findings  for  humans  is  unknown, 
information  about  the  results  of  the  fertility  and  general  reproductive  function  study  in  mice  using 
cV1q has been included in the SPC (5.3). 
Table 2  Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies performed with golimumab and cV1q 
Type of Study / 
Number 
Embryo-foetal 
development/ 
T-2003-005 
Pre- postnatal 
development/ 
T-2004-007 
Species /  
Number of 
animals 
Cynomolgus 
monkey / 
12 to 14/ 
group 
Cynomolgus 
monkey / 
12/group 
Duration of 
dosing 
Dose Levels 
(mg/kg) / 
Route of admin. 
GD20 to 
GD50 
25; 50 twice 
weekly / SC 
GD50 to LD 
33 
25;50 twice 
weekly / SC 
Golimumab 
derived from 
C524A cell line 
Immuno-
toxicity 
(cord blood) 
Golimumab 
derived from 
C524A cell line 
Immuno-
toxicity in 
neonates 
- 
- 
Product 
Special 
feature 
Noteworthy 
Findings 
NOAEL 
50 mg/kg 
50 mg/kg 
10 mg/kg 
M: increased 
precoïtal interval; 
decreased fertility 
rate 
F: moribund 
animals, lowered 
pregnancy rate 
- 
40 mg/kg 
F0: moribund 
animals 
F1 F: significant 
decrease in 
gestation body 
weight 
F1: significant 
decrease in 
viability 
10 mg/kg 
40 mg/kg 
Fertility/ 
T-098-003 
Mouse CD-1/ 
25/sex/group 
M: 10 
weeksa 
F: 3 weeksb 
10; 40 once 
weekly / IV 
cV1q* 
Embryo-foetal 
development/ 
T-096-011 
Mouse CD-1/ 
21/treated 
group 
GD6 and 
GD12 
10; 40 once 
weekly / IV 
cV1q* 
- 
- 
Pre- postnatal 
development/ 
T-2001-002 
combined 
embryofoetal 
development 
/.pre- postnatal 
development/ 
T-2003-013 
Mouse CD-1/ 
25/group 
GD6 to 
LD15 
10;40 once 
weekly / IV 
cV1q* 
Immuno-
toxicity 
Mouse CD-1/ 
9 to 15/group 
GD6 to 
GD18 or 
GD6 to 
LD15 
40 once weekly / 
IV 
cV1q* 
milk and 
serum 
analysis and 
immunolog
y analysis. 
a8-weeks prior to cohabitation and continuing for 2 weeks after cohabitation, b2-weeks prior to cohabitation and 
on GD 0 and 7 
*Analogous mouse anti-TNFα monoclonal antibody 
15/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GD = Gestation Day, LD = lactation day, F = Female, M = Male, 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
Male and female fertility was studied in mice. After intravenous injections once weekly, with doses up 
to  40  mg/kg,  no  effect  were  seen  on  standard  parameters.  A  slightly  lower  pregnancy  rate,  within 
historical  control  range,  was  seen;  92%,  91%  and  76%  for  the  0,  10  and  40  mg/kg  groups, 
respectively. Also, a decreased male fertility rate was seen; 92, 91 and 76 for the respective groups of 
mice.  The  clinical  relevance  of  these  findings,  using  the  mouse  homolog  of  golimumab,  cV1q,  is 
unknown.  
Embryo-fetal development 
In  mice,  dosed  up  to  40  mg/kg,  no  adverse  effects  were  seen  on  standard  maternal  and  fetal 
parameters.  NOAEL  for  maternal  and  fetal  parameters  was  40  mg/kg.  At  40  mg/kg,  the  exposure 
multiple to maximum clinical exposure was approximately 40 for dams and 20 for the fetuses, based 
on serum concentrations. 
In  cynomolgus  monkeys,  using  doses  up  to  50  mg/kg  during  organogenesis,  no  treatment-related 
effects were seen on maternal and fetal standard parameters. NOAEL was set to 50 mg/kg, and at this 
dose the exposure multiple to maximum clinical exposure was approximately 400 for the dams during 
organogenisis,  and  15 for the  dams  and  8  for  the  foetuses  at  the  time  of  C-section,  based  on  serum 
concentrations. When comparing AUC levels at 50 mg/kg, the exposure multiple to maximum clinical 
exposure was approximately 200 for the dams during organogenesis. 
Prenatal and postnatal development, including maternal function 
In  cynomolgus  monkeys,  no  adverse  effects  were  seen  related  to  golimumab  treatment,  including 
effects  on  the  immunological  development  in  the  F1  infants  followed  for  6  months  post  delivery. 
NOAEL for the dams and the developing fetus and F1 infants was 50 mg/kg. At this dose the exposure 
multiple to  maximum  clinical  exposure  was  approximately  370  for  the  dams  after  the last  dose  and 
130 for the infants at 2 weeks of age, based on serum concentrations.  
Golimumab was found in breast milk, however the concentrations were low (4 µg/mL in the 50 mg/kg 
treatment group) and were approximately 350-fold lower than maternal serum concentrations during 
the lactation period. 
In  mice,  in  one  of  the  two  pre-and  postnatal  development  studies,  a  decreased  humoral  immune 
response,  evaluated  in  the  IgM  antibody  response  to  the  T-cell  dependent  antigen,  was  statistical 
significant in  F1 females when  evaluated  as total  spleen  cell  activity.  In  the  second study,  no  effect 
was  seen  in  the  IgM  antibody-forming  cell  response  to  the  T-dependent  antigen,  when  evaluated  at 
either  11  or  22  weeks  of  age,  in  F1  males  and  females  exposed  in  utero  or  in  utero  and  during 
lactation.  
No studies in which the offspring (juvenile animals) are further dosed and/or further evaluated were 
submitted.  In  the  prenatal  and  postnatal  development  study  T-2004-007,  where  cynomolgus  infants 
were  exposed  to  golimumab  in  utero  (from  Day  50  of  gestation) and  during  lactation (until  Day  33 
after  delivery),  golimumab  was  transferred  across  the  placenta  from  mothers  to  foetuses  and  the 
offspring had high serum golimumab concentrations after birth. At two weeks of age (the first serum 
samples  collected  from  the  infants)  the  serum  golimumab  concentration  in  the  neonates  from  the 
treated mothers was 537 µg/ml, which gives a margin to human exposure after intended clinical dosing 
of approximately 130. By 6 months of age the golimumab concentration was 3.2 µg/ml. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
From  the  toxicokinetic  data  collected  as  part  of  the  toxicity  studies  it  can  be  concluded  that  the 
animals in the toxicity studies have been extensively exposed to golimumab or, when the studies were 
performed in mice, to cV1q. The margins to human exposure, when comparing Cmax and AUC values 
are in general large, from 50 and above, however it has to be taken into account that golimumab was 
shown  to  have  34-fold  less  affinity  and  to  be  72-fold  less  potent  in  neutralizing  cynomolgus  TNFα 
16/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared  to  affinity  and  neutralization  of  human  TNFα.  Therefore,  even  though  the  monkeys  have 
been extensively exposed to golimumab, the “true” margins to human exposure are difficult to assess. 
However,  since  the  clinical  safety  profile  of  an  anti-TNFα  agent  is  fairly  well  established,  the 
uncertainty of the exposure margins relative to the human exposure is not considered a concern. 
•  Local tolerance  
The local tolerance of golimumab was evaluated in a single dose subcutaneous injection study and in a 
3-week and a 4-week twice-weekly subcutaneous injection study in cynomolgus monkeys, with doses 
up  to  10  and  50  mg/kg.  In  these  studies,  mild  skin  irritation  and  inflammation  at  the  injection  sites 
were  seen  as  a  result  of  injection  of  a  foreign  protein.  Even  though  the  formulation  used  in  these 
studies  was  not  the  one  intended  for  commercialization,  the  excipients  in  finished  product  cause  no 
concern. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Tissue cross-reactivity study: 
The  cross-reactivity  of  biotinylated  golimumab  with  normal  human  tissues  has  been  evaluated  in  a 
GLP-compliant  in vitro study  using  cryosections of  normal,  adult  human  tissue specimens  (T-2000-
004). The antibody concentrations used in the definitive study were 10 µg/ml and 1 µg/ml. Golimumab 
did not stain the majority of the normal human tissue sections evaluated. There was slight to moderate 
staining  of  the  adnexal  epithelium  of  the  skin  from  2  of  3  donors  and  slight  staining  of  the 
keratinocytes in the epidermis (stratum malpighi) of nipple skin overlying the breast (mammary gland) 
from 1 of 3 donors. The staining was observed at 10 µg/ml but not at 1 µg/ml. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No environmental risk assessment (ERA) was submitted. The Applicant justified the lack of an ERA 
by  referring  to  EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00  which  states  that  proteins  are  exempted  since  they  are 
unlikely to result in any significant risk to the environment. This was considered acceptable. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  applicant  has  undertaken  one  Phase  2b  dose-finding  study  and  a  total  of  five  multicenter, 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical studies - three in RA, and one in PsA 
and AS, respectively. An overview of the main clinical studies is presented in Table 3. 
Golimumab  to  be  used  in  clinical  trials  has  been  produced  by  two  different  cell  lines,  C466D  and 
C524A.  In  the  early  Phase  1  and  Phase  2  studies  lyophilized  formulations  were  used;  all  Phase  3 
studies used a liquid formulation supplied in glass vials (LIV). 
Table 3  Overview of the main clinical studies with golimumab 
Study ID 
Study Posology 
(every 4 weeks; 
SC) 
Subjs by arm 
entered 
Duration 
Diagnosis 
Incl. criteria 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
C0524T05 
GO-
BEFORE 
0, 50, 100 mg 
C0524T11 
GO-AFTER 
0, 50, 100 mg 
Pbo+MTX: 160 
100mg: 159 
50mg+MTX:159 
100mg+MTX:159 
Pbo:140 
50mg: 140 
100mg:140 
Blinded, Pbo-
controlled W 0-52 
Active RA and 
MTX naive 
ACR 50 
W24 
Pbo-controlled W 0-
24 
Unblinded active 
treatment W24-52.   
Active RA and 
previous 
treatment with 
anti-TNFα 
ACR 20 
W14 
17/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjs by arm 
entered 
Duration 
Diagnosis 
Incl. criteria 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Study Posology 
(every 4 weeks; 
SC) 
0, 50, 100 mg 
Study ID 
C0524T06  
GO-
FORWARD 
Psoriatic arthrits 
C0524T08  
GO-
REVEAL 
0, 50, 100 mg 
Pbo+MTX: 120 
100mg: 120 
50mg+MTX: 80 
100mg+MTX: 80 
Pbo-controlled W 0-
24. 
Blinded active 
treatment W24-52.   
Pbo: 113 
50 mg: 146  
100 mg 146  
Pbo-controlled: W 0-
24; Blinded active 
treatment W24-52.  
Ankylosing spondylitis 
C0524T09 
GO-RAISE 
0, 50, 100 mg 
pbo = 78 
50 mg = 138 
100 mg = 140 
Pbo-controlled: W 0-
24; Blinded active 
treatment W24-52.  
ACR 20 
W14 
ACR 20 
W14 
ASAS 20 
W14. 
agent(s) 
Active RA 
despite MTX 
therapy 
active PsA 
despite current / 
previous 
DMARD or 
NSAID 
therapy, no 
previous  
anti-TNFα  
active AS 
despite current / 
previous 
DMARD or 
NSAID 
therapy, no 
previous  
anti-TNFα  
DMARD: disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; NSAID: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug; ACR: American College of 
Rheumatology*; ASAS: Ankylosing Spondylitis assessment score 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic characteristics of golimumab have been investigated in several clinical studies in 
patients with RA, PsA and AS as well as in healthy volunteers. The studies investigated both i.v. and 
s.c.  administration  of  golimumab  and  included  intensive  as  well  as  sparse  sampling  schemes.  An 
overview of these studies is presented in Table 4. 
Table 4  Summary of clinical studies with pharmacokinetic information 
Study ID 
Phase 
Dose Regimena 
Route of 
Administrationb 
Number of 
Subjects 
Randomized 
Rheumatoid Arthritis 
C0466T01 
C0466T02 
C0524T02 
C0524T05 
C0524T06 
C0524T11 
1 
1 
2 
3 
3 
3 
0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 6.0 or 
10.0 mg/kg SD 
0.3, 0.6, 1.0, and 3.0 
mg/kg SD; 0.3 and 1.0 
mg/kg q2 weeks x 3 
50, 100 mg q2 weeks or 
q4 weeks 
50, 100 mg, q4 weeks 
50, 100 mg, q4 weeks 
50, 100 mg, q4 weeks 
IV 
SC 
SC 
SC 
SC 
SC 
36 
53 
172 
637 
444 
461 
18/70 
Sampling 
Schemec 
Intensive 
Intensive 
Sparse 
Sparse 
Sparse 
Sparse 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic Arthritis 
C0524T08 
Ankylosing Spondylitis 
C0524T09 
Healthy Subjects 
C0524T13 
C0524T23 
C0524T24 
C0524T15 
Study ID 
Phase 
Dose Regimena 
Route of 
Administrationb 
Number of 
Subjects 
Randomized 
Sampling 
Schemec 
3 
3 
50, 100 mg, q4 weeks 
50, 100 mg, q4 weeks 
SC 
SC 
405 
356 
Sparse 
Sparse 
1 
1 
1 
1 
100 mg SD 
50, 100 mg SD 
100 mg SD 
100 mg SD 
a SD = single dose, q2 weeks = every 2 weeks, q4 weeks = every 4 weeks 
b SC = subcutaneous, IV = intravenous 
c Intensive sampling schemes enable determination of the full PK profile using a non-model approach (e.g., 
non-compartmental analysis). Sparse sampling schemes require a model-based approach to characterize the 
full PK profiles 
e. C0524T13 was not a randomized study, and 30 subjects were assigned to a single treatment group in the 
study 
SC 
SC 
SC 
SC or IV 
Intensive 
Intensive 
Intensive 
Intensive 
30e 
51 
156 
78 
In  the  majority  of  studies,  serum  concentrations  of  golimumab  were  determined  using  a  so  called 
sandwich  electrochemiluminescence  immunoassay  (sandwich  ECLIA).  The  method  has  in  general 
been well described and sufficiently validated. As commonly observed for these types of methods, the 
occurrence  of  antibodies  against  golimumab  interfered  with  the  detection  of  golimumab,  i.e.  the 
antibody  titres  are  underestimated  when  antibodies  are  present.  The  lower  limit  of  quantification 
(LLOQ)  of this  assay  was 200  ng/ml  with  an  MRD  (minimum  required dilution)  of 10,  however,  it 
should  be  noted  that  this  limit  is  not  low  enough  to  estimate  trough  concentrations  in  all  subjects 
following the administration of 50 mg every 4 weeks (q4w). 
An enzyme immunoassay (EIA) was used for detection of antibodies against golimumab. This method 
measures only the non-complexed antibodies and thus, complexes already formed between golimumab 
and the antibody are not detected by this method. Furthermore, occurrence of golimumab in the serum 
samples interferes with the method and results in false negative results. Accordingly, it is difficult to 
identify  individuals  with  a  positive  immune  response  and  the  practical  usefulness  of  the  present 
enzyme immunoassay method is low, as the majority of the samples are classified as inconclusive and 
the  impact  of  being  antibody  positive  on  efficacy  and  safety  is  difficult  to  evaluate.  Only  in  one 
clinical study (C0524T02) the presence of anti-golimumab neutralizing antibodies was determined. A 
functional cell-based bioassay was applied for samples identified as immune response positive by the 
EIA. 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  calculated  by  non-compartmental  techniques  for  studies  with 
intensive sampling schemes. In addition, three population PK evaluations were performed, describing 
pharmacokinetics in RA, PsA and AS patients, respectively, by using the pharmacokinetic information 
derived from sparse sampling in four of the performed Phase 3 studies. These data were analysed by 
non-linear mixed effects modelling using NONMEM version 6 employing the first order conditional 
estimation method with interaction (FOCE-I). 
Descriptive  and  summary  statistics  have  been  used.  The  generally  accepted  methods  for 
bioequivalence assessment were used. 
•  Absorption 
The  systemic  exposure  has  been  studied  following  single  and  repeated  s.c.  injections  every  2  or  4 
week in patients with RA, PsA, and AS. In addition, a few single dose s.c. studies were performed in 
healthy volunteers and single dose i.v. administration was given to healthy volunteers and RA patients. 
Three  population  pharmacokinetic  analyses  were  performed  on  the  basis  of  data  from  RA  patients 
19/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(studies  C0524T05  and  C0524T06),  PsA  patients  (study  C0524T08)  and  AS  patients  (study 
C0524T09), respectively. 
The absolute bioavailability following a 100 mg s.c. injection in the upper arm, abdomen and thigh 
was  similar  and  on  average  51%.  Following  an  s.c.  injection  the  serum  concentration  profile  of 
golimumab  rises  slowly  and  exhibits  several  peaks  (reasons  unknown)  and  maximum  serum 
concentrations  of  golimumab  occur  during  the  first  week  after  administration  in  most  patients.  The 
systemic exposure of a s.c. injection delivered with needle and syringe or with a prefilled syringe/auto-
injector resulted in comparable systemic exposure. 
The variability in systemic exposure is substantial; coefficient of variations across studies varied over 
25-59% for Cmax and over 47-59% for AUC. The coefficient of variation in trough serum golimumab 
samples in study C0524T02 (RA patients) ranged from 72% to 110%. The extent of intra-individual 
variability  in  trough  serum  golimumab  concentrations  in  the  same  study  was  roughly  estimated  to 
approximately 20-30% 20% and is thus not a main contributor to the overall variability. Differences in 
body  weight,  immune  response  and  concomitant  methotrexate  can  only  explain  a  minor  part  of  the 
observed  variability.  The  residual  variability  estimated  in  the  population  PK  analyses  was  relative 
large (28% CV). 
•  Distribution & Elimination 
Golimumab  has  a  limited  tissue  distribution  and  a  low  clearance  with  estimated  values  (mean  +/-
standard  deviation)  of  volume  of  distribution  and  clearance  being  6.9±2.0  ml/day/kg  and  115±19 
ml/kg,  respectively.  The  mean  terminal  half-life  ranged  from  11  to  14  days  following  single  s.c. 
doses (50 to 300 mg) and the half-life for a typical patient weighing 70 kg derived from the population 
analyses ranged from 10-13 days in the three disease populations applied for, i.e. RA, PsA and AS. 
The elimination pathways have not been described; however, as a human IgG1κ monoclonal antibody, 
golimumab is presumably metabolised in the same manner as any other endogenous IgG, i.e degraded 
into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  pharmacokinetics  appear to  be roughly  dose  proportional following  single s.c. injections  over  a 
dose range of 50 to 100 mg and following repeated s.c. injections (every second or forth week) over a 
dose range of 50 to 100 mg. 
Steady-state is on average achieved at week 12, being in accordance with a half-life of approximately 
2 weeks. However, median serum trough concentrations obtained over longer time periods (up to 52 
weeks) indicate a tendency toward a decrease over time, which may be related to increased formation 
of  antibodies  toward  golimumab  and  possibly  an  increased  risk  of  inefficacy.  A  positive  immune 
response was estimated in the population PK model to increase CL/F of golimumab by 75-190%. As 
the LLOQ of the detection assay was not low enough to estimate trough concentrations in all subjects 
the observed median values may be upward biased.  
•  Special populations 
The  main  part  of  the  pharmacokinetic  studies  was  performed  in  patients  and  three  population  PK 
analyses were performed separately for each of the applied for indication. 
No studies have been performed in patients with impaired renal or hepatic organ function, which is 
acceptable  for  this  type  of  drug.  The  lack  of  data  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  is 
reflected in the SPC. 
From a clinical efficacy perspective a correlation between efficacy and body weight was indicated as 
there was a trend that subjects with high body weight, i.e. >100 kg, have lower ACR responses rates, 
and  this  is  reflected  in  the  SPC.  No  substantial  effect  of  age,  i.e.  elderly,  was  identified  in  the 
pharmacokinetic population analysis. 
20/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No formal in vivo drug interaction studies have been performed. On the basis of observed golimumab 
concentrations  and  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  (following  50  and  100  mg  golimumab 
every  fourth  week)  it  was  identified  that  serum  concentrations  of  golimumab  are  increased  by 
concomitant MTX treatment. The magnitude of the effect varied between studies, but the effect is not 
considered to be of such an extent that dose adjustments are required. The reason for the interaction is 
unknown  but  has  been  observed  for  previous  TNFα-inhibitors.  The  population  pharmacokinetic 
modelling does not indicate a large effect of NSAIDS, corticosteroids and sulfasalazine on the PK of 
golimumab. Increased cytokine levels during inflammation have been observed to reduce the activity 
of cytochrome P-450 enzymes. Thus, upon treatment with golimumab the cytokine levels are reduced 
and thereby the activity of cytochrome P-450 enzymes may become normalised (increased) and may 
indirectly  affect  the  plasma  concentrations  of  drugs  metabolised  by  these  enzymes.  However,  at 
present the clinical relevance of these findings is unclear. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
PK studies using human biomaterials such as in vitro permeability studies and protein binding studies, 
as  traditionally  performed  for  small  molecules,  were  not  considered  applicable  or  useful  since 
golimumab is a human monoclonal antibody intended for subcutaneous administration. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No separate pharmacodynamic studies were conducted in healthy subjects. The effects of golimumab 
on  biomarkers  of  inflammation  and  bone  and  cartilage  metabolism  were  explored  in  the  Phase  3 
studies, as well as anaemia and cardiovascular markers. 
•  Mechanism of action 
TNFα  is  a  cytokine  with  multiple  biologic  actions,  including  protection  against  bacterial,  fungal, 
parasitic,  and  viral  infections,  modulation  of  cell  growth,  mediation  of  inflammatory  responses  and 
interaction  in  a  network  with  other  lymphokines  to  modulate  cells  involved  in  immune  response. 
TNFα  has  been implicated  in  autoimmune  and  inflammatory  diseases  such  as RA,  PsA,  and  AS,  as 
well  as  psoriasis,  ulcerative  colitis,  and  Crohn’s  disease.  There  is  support  from  non-clinical  studies 
that golimumab is a selective TNFα inhibitor. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
Across all the Phase 3 studies, treatment with golimumab alone or in combination with MTX resulted 
in significant reductions in levels of selected inflammatory markers including IL-6, TNFα, ICAM-1, 
VEGF and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3) compared with control. Treatment with golimumab 
alone  or  in  combination  also  resulted  in  significant  decreases  in  rheumatoid  factor  (RF)  levels  and 
improvement in CRP levels. 
In the studies C0524T06, C0524T08 and C0524T09, golimumab alone or in combination with MTX 
resulted in significant changes in levels of select markers of bone metabolism (increases in osteocalcin 
and  procollagen  type  I  N-terminal  propeptide  (PINP)  and  decreases  in  deoxypyridinoline  (DPD) 
levels) compared with treatment with the control group. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Anaemia and Cardiovascular Markers 
Anaemia  is  a  common  complication  in  patients  with  RA.  The  effect  of  golimumab  on  anaemia  of 
inflammation  was  explored  in  the  Phase  3  studies  by  assessing  changes  in  haemoglobin  levels  and 
anaemia  biomarkers  in  subjects  with  anaemia  at  baseline.  Although  relatively  few  subjects  had 
21/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anaemia  at  baseline in this  program,  golimumab  treatment  increased haemoglobin levels  in  anaemic 
patients (C0524T06; C0524T11). However, general improvement of disease activity is often followed 
by  normalised  haemoglobin  levels.  For  golimumab,  no  conclusion  can  be  drawn  due  to  the  small 
number of patients. Furthermore, no clear trend was evident for the effect of golimumab on anaemia in 
the MTX-naïve RA, PsA or AS studies. 
Exploratory evaluations of the effect of golimumab treatment on cardiovascular disease were included 
in two of the Phase 3 RA studies (C0524T05 and C0524T06). In both studies, greater improvements 
(reductions) were seen in cardiovascular inflammatory markers, including fibrinogen, IL-6, IL-8, and 
ICAM-1, in the golimumab + MTX groups than in the placebo + MTX groups whereas the effects of 
golimumab  on  lipid  parameters  were  more  mixed.  However,  these  exploratory  evaluations  of 
cardiovascular markers do not allow any general conclusion of the effects of golimumab. 
Clinical efficacy 
Efficacy data up to Week 24 were submitted in the initial application, while all studies were ongoing 
with up to 5 years follow up planned for. During the review process, summaries of 52 weeks efficacy 
data for signs and symptoms from studies T05, T06 (RA) and T08 (PsA), as well as updated safety 
data  were  provided.  In  all  Phase  3  studies,  golimumab  was  administered  as  an  s.c.  injection,  and 
subjects  were  given  the  option  of  self-administering  the  injection  after  appropriate  training.  Dosing 
was scheduled at 4-week (q4w; 28 day) intervals in these studies, but a 3 to 7 day dose window was 
specified in the protocol that included 30 to 31 days, which corresponds with monthly dosing. 
•  Dose response study 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
One  Phase  2b  dose  finding  study  was  undertaken  in  RA  (C0524T02).  The  study  was  designed  to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of four dosing regimens of golimumab + MTX in patients with active 
RA  despite  MTX  therapy  and  to  determine  the  appropriate  dose  for  phase  3  studies.  The  dosing 
regimen tested were 50 or 100 mg  golimumab s.c. injections either every 2 (q2w) or every 4 weeks 
(q4w). 
The primary endpoint, ACR20 response at Week 16, was met as a statistically significant effect was 
shown in the combined golimumab group. The 100 mg dose given q2w showed clear effects as well, 
while the 50 mg dose q4w was barely significantly better than placebo, and the other dose regimens 
were non-significant. Thus, there was no clear cut dose-response relationship demonstrated. 
Although  the  100  mg  q2w  dose  regimen  was  the  only  treatment  group  with  statistical  significant 
results as compared to placebo group with regards to the primary endpoint, the regimen selected for 
Phase 3 were golimumab 50 mg q4w and 100 mg q4w. In general, the rationale for the dose selection 
for Phase 3 studies is not well justified. 
Psoriatic arthritis and Ankylosing spondylitis 
Doses  for  PsA  and  AS  were  selected  based  on  the  Phase  2b  study  in  RA  together  with  theoretical 
considerations.  The  lack  of  dose  finding  in  these  populations  could  be  questioned,  but  it  is  also 
considered  reasonable  to  choose  the  dose  based  on  experience  in  RA.  Thus,  these  dose 
recommendations  are  accepted.  For  both  PsA  and  AS,  use  of  golimumab  as  monotherapy  was 
proposed.  This  proposal  was  acceptable  as  adequate  data  has  been  provided  in  its  support  (see 
description of Main studies below). 
•  Main studies 
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) 
The efficacy of golimumab in the treatment of adults with active RA was investigated in three Phase 3 
trials, each trial evaluating a different subpopulation of subjects with moderate to severe disease. The 
22/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
three RA populations studied represent the majority of patients encountered in clinical practice who 
are  candidates  for  anti-TNF  therapy,  namely  patients  with  active  disease  despite  MTX  therapy 
(C0524T06), Patients previously treated with an anti-TNF therapy (C0524T11) and patients naïve to 
MTX (C0524T05). 
An overview of the key design elements of these Phase 3 studies is given in Table 5. 
Table 5  Overview of key design elements of Phase 3 studies in RA through Week 24 
Design Elements 
Phase 3, multicenter, 
randomized 
Placebo-controlled, 
double-blind 
Population (adults with 
active RA) 
C0524T06 
GO-FORWARD 
√ 
C0524T11 
GO-AFTER 
√ 
C0524T05 
GO-BEFORE 
√ 
through Week 52 
(subjects randomized to 
placebo + MTX crossed 
over at Week 24 in a 
blinded fashion to receive 
golimumab 50 mg + 
MTX) 
Active disease despite 
MTX therapy 
through Week 24 
through Week 52 
active disease and 
previous treatment with 
anti-TNFα agent(s) 
active disease and MTX-
naïve 
(Co)Primary Endpoint(s) 
•  ACR 20 response at 
•  ACR 20 response at 
•  ACR 50 response at 
Subjects randomized 
Treatment group (n) 
• 
Week 14 
improvement from 
baseline in HAQ at 
Week 24 
444 
• 
PBO + MTX (133) 
•  GLM 100 mg + PBO 
MTX (133) 
Week 14 
461 
PBO (155) 
• 
• 
Week 24 
change from baseline 
in vdH-S score at 
Week 52 
637 
• 
PBO + MTX (160) 
•  GLM 100 mg + PBO 
MTX (159) 
•  GLM 50 mg + MTX 
•  GLM 50 mg (153) 
•  GLM 50 mg + MTX 
(89) 
•  GLM 100 mg + 
MTX (89) 
•  GLM 100 mg (153) 
(159) 
•  GLM 100 mg + 
MTX (159) 
GLM = golimumab PBO = placebo 
Subjects should have no evidence of active TB and no history of latent TB. Risk for tuberculosis (TB) 
was  similarly  evaluated  in  all  individuals  in  all  studies,  and  if  needed,  TB  prophylaxis  was  given. 
Subjects  with  a  history  of,  or  concurrent,  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF),  including  medically 
controlled, asymptomatic CHF were excluded from all Phase 3 studies.  
Summaries of the individual RA studies are presented below. 
Study C0524T06 (GO-FORWARD) 
This was a placebo-controlled study in subjects with active RA despite ongoing MTX. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Adult subjects with a diagnosis of RA (American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria) for at least 
3 month and active RA despite MTX therapy were included. 
23/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treated  with  anti-TNFα 
The  study  design  excluded,  amongst  other  criteria,  subjects  with  other  inflammatory  diseases,  those 
previously 
therapy  and/or  disease  modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs 
(DMARDs)/systemic immunosuppressives within 4 weeks prior to the first study as well as subjects 
who had a current serious infection or chronic or recurrent infectious diseases or certain other medical 
conditions. 
Treatments 
Details  of  the  study  treatment  in  each arm  and  the  key  time  points  during  the study  are  depicted  in 
Figure 1. 
Figure  1    Study  schema  (C0524T06).  Panel  A:  Study  treatment  of  each  arm;  Panel  B:  Key  time 
points during the study. (EE=early escape; DBL=database lock; LE=long-term extension; 
MTX=methotrexate; PC=placebo crossover; PE=primary endpoint; R=randomization) 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of golimumab in  subjects with active 
RA despite MTX therapy. 
The  secondary  objectives  were  to  assess  the  safety  of  golimumab,  the  effects  of  golimumab  on 
structural  damage  and  health-related  quality  of  life,  and  the  population  pharmacokinetics  of 
golimumab. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Two co-primary endpoints were used: 
1)  ACR 20 response at Week 14 and 
24/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2)  Improvement from baseline in health assessment questionnaire (HAQ) at Week 24 (these were 
not provided in this application.) 
The four major secondary endpoints of this study were: 
•  The change from baseline in van der Heijde Modified Sharp (vdH-S) score at Week 24  
•  The proportion of subjects with DAS28 (using CRP) response at Week 14 
•  The proportion of subjects with an ACR 20 response at Week 24 
•  The improvement from baseline in HAQ at Week 14 
Signs and symptoms of RA: 
•  An American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20/50/70 response was defined as a ≥ 20/50/70% 
improvement  in  Swollen  joint  count  (66  joints)  and  tender  joint  count  (68  joints)  and 
≥ 20/50/70% improvement in three of the following five assessments:  
1. Patient’s assessment of pain (VAS) 
2. Patient’s global assessment of disease activity (VAS) 
3. Evaluator’s global assessment of disease activity (VAS) 
4. Patient’s assessment of physical function as measured by the HAQ 
5. CRP 
Functional status of the subject: 
•  The  Health  assessment  questionnaire  (HAQ)  disability  index  is  a  20  question  instrument  which 
assesses  the  degree  of  difficulty  the  subject  had  in  accomplishing  tasks  in  8  functional  areas 
(dressing, arising, eating, walking, hygiene, reaching, gripping, and errands and chores) over the 
previous week. Responses in each functional area are scored from 0 (no difficulty) to 3 (inability 
to perform a task in that functional area). The minimal clinically important difference is 0.22. 
Sample size 
The sample size was determined assuming an ACR20 response rate of at least 55% in patients treated 
with golimumab + MTX and 35% of patients treated with MTX alone. Based on this assumption, 120, 
80, and 80 subjects in Groups I, III, and IV (MTX treatment groups) were required to achieve > 90% 
power. In addition, assuming that 55% of subjects receiving golimumab monotherapy (Group II) and 
35%  of  subjects  receiving  MTX  montherapy  (Group  I)  achieve  an  ACR20  response,  Group  II  will 
require  120  subjects  to  achieve  >  85%  power  to  detect  significant  difference  between  Group  II  and 
Group I using a chi-square test at α = 0.05 (2-sided). 
This sample size will also provide > 90% power to detect a difference in improvement from baseline 
in  HAQ  between  treatment  groups  using  a  2-sided  t-test  on  van  der  Waerden  normal  scores  of 
improvement  from  baseline  in  HAQ  at  α  =  0.05,  assuming  the  mean  improvement  from  baseline  in 
HAQ as 0.21 for placebo, -0.47 for Group III, and -0.39 for Group IV. 
Randomisation 
A total of approximately 400 subjects were to be randomly assigned using IVRS in a 3:3:2:2 ratio to 
one  of  four  treatment  groups  in  a  blinded  fashion  on  Day  1.  Randomization  was  to  be  stratified  by 
investigational site. 
Blinding (masking) 
For the Week 24 data analysis presented, a select group of Centocor personnel who were not directly 
involved with the conduct of the study were unblinded. At each visit, the randomization center IVRS 
provided the responsible authorized health professional at the site with the proper kit number for each 
subject’s study medication. Unblinding of the investigator was to be done only for compelling safety 
reasons. 
25/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, standard deviation (SD), range, and the interquartile 
range  for  continuous  variables,  and  counts  and  percentages  for  categorical  variables  were  used  to 
summarize most data. Pearson’s chi-square test was used to compare binary categorical data. 
The primary efficacy and selected secondary efficacy analyses were based on all subjects who were 
randomized  at  Week  0,  i.e.  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population.  In  the  analyses  of  primary  efficacy 
endpoints, the first test compared golimumab at any dose + MTX (golimumab 50 mg + MTX and 100 
mg  +  MTX  combined)  versus  placebo  +  MTX,  if  the  result  was  significant,  then  pair  wise 
comparisons  of  golimumab  50  mg  +  MTX  versus placebo +  MTX and  golimumab  100  mg  +  MTX 
versus placebo + MTX were made.  
All statistical testing was 2-tailed at a significance level of 0.05. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Figure 2  Disposition of subjects in study C0524T06 through Week 24. 
Recruitment 
The studied period up to 24 weeks was from December 2005 to September 2007. 
Conduct of the study 
Between October 2006 and February 2007 the applicant experienced significant issues associated with 
the  availability  of  clinical  trial  supplies.  All  five  Phase  3  studies  were  affected  by  these  difficulties 
which led to disruptions in the study agent administration schedule for some subjects. 
Baseline data 
Demographic  characteristics  of  subjects  at  baseline  were  generally  similar  across  treatment  groups 
with the majority of subjects being women (80.6%); 76.8% of subjects were Caucasian, 15.3% Asian; 
the median age was 51.0 years and median weight of 70.15 kg. 
Baseline clinical disease characteristics were generally similar across treatment groups, and indicated 
the  presence  of  long-standing  disease.  Among  randomized  subjects,  median  disease  duration  was 
lowest  for  the  golimumab  50  mg  +  MTX  group  at  4.5  years  and  ranged  up  to  6.7  years  in  the 
golimumab 100 mg + MTX group.  
Baseline values for the ACR core set of measurements indicated moderate to severe disease, and while 
generally  balanced,  suggested  the  possibility  of  relatively  greater  disease  activity  in  the  golimumab 
50 mg  +  MTX  group  than  in  other  treatment  groups.  Baseline  disease  characteristics  of  RA 
measurements other than the ACR core set were similar across all groups. 
26/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  distribution  of  co-morbidities  was  generally  similar  across  all  treatment  groups  as  were  the 
proportions of subjects at baseline using oral corticosteroids or NSAIDs specifically for RA. 
Numbers analysed 
All  444  subjects  were  analyzed  for  safety,  efficacy,  and  health  economics,  and  a  subgroup  of  158 
subjects (150 planned) were analyzed for biomarkers. 
Outcomes and estimation 
In  all  treatment  groups,  except  the  golimumab  100  mg  +  MTX  group,  subjects  meeting  criteria  for 
early  escape  (thus  changing  treatment  as  a  result)  had  their  last  observation  at  or  prior  to  Week  16 
carried forward for Week 24 analyses. Subjects randomized to the golimumab 100 mg + MTX group 
and meeting the criteria for early escape did not change their treatment regimen, and as such, Week 24 
observed values were used for analyses. 
The results of the two co-primary endpoints were as follows: 
Table 6   Results of co-primary endpoints; randomized subjects 
Placebo + 
MTX 
Subjects 
randomized 
ACR 20 response at Week 14 
133 
Golimumab 
100 mg + 
Placebo 
133 
Golimumab + MTX 
50 mg 
89 
100 mg 
89 
Combined 
178 
n 
Subjects in 
response 
p-value 
133 
44 (33.1%) 
133 
59 (44.4%) 
89 
49 (55.1%) 
89 
50 (56.2%) 
178 
99 (55.6%) 
0.059 
0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
Improvement in HAQ at Week 24 
n 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
IQ range 
Range 
p-value 
133 
0.1316 ± 
0.58374 
0.1250 
(-0.1250, 
0.3750) 
(-1.375, 2.125) 
133 
0.2387 ± 0.66295 
89 
0.4663 ± 0.55255 
0.1250 
(-0.2500, 0.6250) 
0.3750 
(0.1250, 0.7500) 
89 
0.4466 ± 
0.51569 
0.5000 
(0.1250, 0.7500) 
178 
0.4565 ± 
0.53302 
0.4375 
(0.1250, 0.7500)
(-1.375, 2.375) 
0.240 
(-0.750, 2.125) 
< 0.001 
(-1.000, 1.625) 
< 0.001 
(-1.000, 2.125) 
< 0.001 
Major secondary endpoints: 
For the secondary endpoints (ACR20 at 24 weeks, DAS28, HAQ), significance was reached for the 
combination  therapies  but  not  in  the  monotherapy  group.  For  the  more  strict  endpoints  ACR50-90, 
significance was reached at week 24 for the 50 mg + MTX group at all levels but for 100 mg + MTX 
only for ACR50-70. 
During the review process, the applicant submitted data on ACR, DAS28 and HAQ from Week 52. It 
should be noted that all subjects on placebo switched after Week 24, and a number of subjects in all 
groups had changed the original treatment regimen, during the study period. This makes interpretation 
of  these  results  difficult.  The  Table  below  shows  ACR  results  at  Week  52,  taking  early  escape  and 
cross over into account.  
27/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 
ACR 20,  ACR 50,  ACR 70,  and  ACR 90  responses  Week 52  by  early  escape  or 
crossover status; randomized subjects (C0524T06) 
Placebo  +  MTX  →Goli 
+ 
50 mg 
MTX 
Goli 100 mg + Placebo 
Goli 50 mg + MTX 
Golimumab 100 mg + MTX 
Early Escape 
(Week 16-52) 
Crossover 
(Week 
24-52)b 
100 mg 
Onlyc 
100 mg → 
100 mg + 
MTXa 
50 mg + 
MTX 
Onlyc 
50 mg + MTX 
→ 100 mg + 
MTXa 
100 mg + 
MTX Onlyc 
100 mg + MTX 
→ 100 mg + 
MTXa 
Combined 
100 mg + 
MTX 
42 
82 
97 
36 
74 
15 
75 
14 
89 
39 
23 (59.0%) 
12 (30.8%) 
7 (17.9%) 
1 (2.6%) 
87 
31 
81 
58 (71.6%) 60 (69.0%)  15 (48.4%) 
37 (45.7%) 38 (43.7%)  7 (22.6%) 
20 (24.7%) 23 (26.4%)  4 (12.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
5 (5.7%) 
4 (4.9%) 
15 
70 
58 (82.9%) 6 (40.0%) 
40 (57.1%) 2 (13.3%) 
22 (31.4%) 0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
6 (8.6%) 
65 
45 (69.2%) 
36 (55.4%) 
29 (44.6%) 
8 (12.3%) 
14 
7 (50.0%) 
4 (28.6%) 
1 (7.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
79 
52 (65.8%) 
40 (50.6%) 
30 (38.0%) 
8 (10.1%) 
Subjects 
randomized 
Week 52 (n) 
ACR 20 
ACR 50 
ACR 70 
ACR 90 
Ancillary analyses 
Sensitivity analysis 
To  test  the  robustness  of  the  primary  analysis,  sensitivity  analyses  were  performed  to  assess  the 
following:  
•  The  effect  of  considering  subjects  who  discontinued  s.c.  study  agent  due  to  an  AE  prior  to 
Week 14 as ACR 20 non responders at Week 14  
•  The effect of considering subjects with insufficient data to determine an ACR 20 response at 
Week 14 as ACR 20 non responders  
•  The effect of using observed data only to perform analysis for ACR 20 at Week 14  
•  The effect of missing 3 or more consecutive weekly oral doses on ACR 20 at Week 14  
•  The effect of observed data only on HAQ at Week 24 
The sensitivity analyses confirm the robustness of the primary analysis. 
Subgroup Analysis  
The  consistency  of  treatment  effect  for  the  primary  endpoint  was  evaluated  for  multiple  subgroups 
based  on  demographic  features,  geographic  region,  baseline  disease  characteristics,  and  baseline 
medications.  
The results of these analyses were consistent with the primary analysis. 
Study C0524T11 (GO-AFTER) 
This was a placebo-controlled, 3-arm, parallel study in subjects with active RA previously treated with 
at least one anti-TNF therapy. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Adult  subjects  with  a  diagnosis  of  RA  for  at  least  3 months  prior  to  screening  and  with  active  RA, 
defined as persistent disease activity with at least 4 swollen and 4 tender joints were included. Subjects 
must have been previously treated with at least 1 dose of a biologic anti-TNFα agent (i.e., etanercept, 
adalimumab,  or  infliximab)  at  least  12  weeks  (infliximab)  or  8  weeks  (adalimumab  or  etanercept) 
prior to the first administration of study agent. Discontinuation of these medications could have been 
for reasons including, but not limited to, lack of efficacy, intolerance and/or inconvenience. 
Subjects  were  allowed  to  be  on  background  therapy,  (alone  or  in  combination)  with  MTX, 
sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, oral corticosteroids, NSAIDs and analgesics. 
28/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study design excluded, amongst other things, subjects with other inflammatory diseases, subjects 
who  had  had  a  serious  adverse  reaction  to  an  anti-TNFα  agent,  or  if  they  had  received  any 
investigational  anti-TNFα  agent  or  had  received  natalizumab,  rituximab,  or  cytotoxic  agents 
(chlorambucil,  cyclophosphamide,  nitrogen  mustard)  or  other  alkylating  agents  at  any  time. 
Furthermore, subjects who had a current serious infection or recurrent infectious diseases or a history 
of known demyelinating diseases or malignancy were excluded from trial participation. 
Treatments 
Details of the study treatment in each arm and the key time points during the study are depicted in  
Figure 3. 
Figure 3  Study  schema  (C0524T11):  Panel  A  shows  study  treatments;  Panel  B  shows  key 
timepoints  during  the  study.  (EE=early  escape;  DBL=database  lock;  LE=long-term 
extension;  MTX=methotrexate;  PC=placebo  crossover;  PE=primary  endpoint; 
R=randomization) 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of golimumab in subjects with active 
RA who had been previously treated with biologic anti-TNFα agent(s) by assessing the reduction in 
signs and symptoms of RA at Week 14. 
The  secondary  objectives  of 
function, 
pharmacodynamics, and population pharmacokinetics of golimumab in subjects with active RA who 
had been previously treated with biologic anti-TNF α agent(s). 
the  safety,  physical 
this  study  were 
to  assess 
29/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  of  this  study  was  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  an  ACR20  response  at 
Week 14. 
Major secondary analyses were ACR50 response at Week 14 ; DAS28 (using CRP) response at Week 
14 ; ACR20 response at Week 24 and improvement from baseline in HAQ score at Week 24. 
Sample size 
This  study  was  designed  to  evaluate  if  golimumab  is  superior  to  placebo  in  reducing  signs  and 
symptoms of RA (i.e., achieving an ACR 20 response at Week 14). The sample size of 140 subjects 
per treatment group will provide > 90% power assuming 50% of subjects use MTX at baseline (yes), 
and ACR 20 response in each treatment group is as given below: 
Placebo 
30% in subjects with baseline MTX use (yes), 30% in subjects with baseline 
MTX use (no).  
Golimumab 50 mg   45% in subjects with baseline MTX use (yes), 40% in subjects with baseline 
MTX use (no).  
Golimumab 100 mg   55% in subjects with baseline MTX use (yes), 50% in subjects with baseline 
MTX use (no). 
Randomisation 
Approximately 420 subjects (140 subjects in each group) were to be enrolled and randomly assigned 
in a 1:1:1 ratio to the different treatment groups. Randomization was stratified by investigational site 
and  baseline  MTX  use  (yes/no).  Eligible  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  using  IVRS  to  receive  a 
fixed s.c. dose of golimumab (50 or 100 mg) or placebo in a blinded fashion at Week 0 (Day 1). 
Blinding (masking) 
The study blind was to be maintained for all key individuals participating in this study until the 24-
week  data  were  locked.  Study  subjects  and  site  personnel  were  blinded  to  treatment  assignment. 
Unblinding of the investigator was to be done only for compelling safety reasons. 
Statistical methods 
All  efficacy  analyses  were  based  on  randomized  subjects  (i.e.,  the  intent-to-treat  population).  The 
proportion  of  subjects  with  an  ACR20  response  at  Week  14  following  treatment  with  golimumab 
(golimumab 50 mg and golimumab 100 mg combined) was compared with the proportion of subjects 
with  an  ACR20  response  at  Week  14  following  treatment  with  placebo  using  a  2-sided  Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test stratified by baseline MTX use (yes/no) at a 0.05 level of significance.  
30/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Figure 4  Disposition of subjects in study C0524T11 at Week 24. 
More than twice as many subjects permanently discontinued study agent administration in the placebo 
group  compared  with  the  combined  golimumab  group  (20.0%  vs.  8.6%,  respectively).  Among  all 
subjects, the most common reasons for discontinuing study agent administration were unsatisfactory 
therapeutic effect, AE, and other reasons (e.g., they withdrew consent or moved away from the study 
site). 
Recruitment 
The studied period up to 24 weeks was from February 2006 to September 2007. 
Conduct of the study 
The original protocol was amended twice to introduce changes with regard to eligibility, testing and 
prior treatment of patients with latent TB. For a description of clinical trial supplies issues see study 
C0524T06. 
Baseline data 
Demographic  characteristics  of  subjects  at  baseline  were  generally  similar  across  treatment  groups. 
Approximately 80% of randomized subjects were women, 87.4% were Caucasian, 5.4% were black, 
and  1.7%  were  Asian.  The  median  age  was  54.0  years  and  the  median  weight  was  approximately 
75 kg. 
Clinical disease characteristics at baseline were generally similar across the randomized groups. The 
median duration of disease ranged from 8.65 years (golimumab100 mg) to 9.80 years (placebo). The 
majority of subjects were in functional Class II or  III. The proportion of subjects receiving MTX at 
baseline was 66.8% for the combined golimumab group and 65.8% for the placebo group. 
The  placebo  and  individual  golimumab  groups  were  generally  similar  for  all  ACR  core  set  of 
measurements  except  for  HAQ  and  CRP,  which  were  slightly  worse  in  the  placebo  than  in  the 
combined golimumab group. These ACR core set of outcome measurements are indicative of subjects 
with moderately to severely active RA. 
31/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medications and/or Therapies Prior to First Study Drug Administration: 
The proportion of subjects who had taken prior medications for RA was similar across all treatment 
groups. Almost all subjects had received at least one DMARD and approximately half the subjects had 
received  more  than  two  DMARDs.  Approximately  90%  had  received  systemic  corticosteroids.  All 
subjects had received at least one anti-TNFα biologic for RA; 115 (24.9%) subjects had received two 
anti-TNFα biologics, and 43 (9.3%) had received three. 
Across all randomized subjects, 58 % discontinued one or more prior anti-TNFα therapies due to lack 
of efficacy, 13% due to intolerance, and 29 % due to and/or reasons other than safety or efficacy 
(mostly for financial reasons).  
Numbers analysed 
All  efficacy  analyses  were  based  on  the  intent-to-treat  population,  i.e.  all  461  subjects  randomized 
were analysed even though two were never treated. 
Outcomes and estimations 
• 
Primary endpoint 
Table 8  Number of subjects who achieved an ACR20 response at Week 14 stratified by baseline 
MTX use; randomized subjects 
Subjects randomized 
ACR 20 
n 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
Subjects receiving MTX at baseline 
n 
Subjects in response 
Subjects not receiving MTX at 
baseline 
n 
Subjects in response 
Placebo 
155 
155 
28 (18.1%) 
50 mg q4w 
153 
153 
54 (35.3%) 
< 0.001 
Golimumab 
100 mg q4w 
153 
Combined 
306 
153 
58 (37.9%) 
< 0.001 
306 
112 (36.6%) 
< 0.001 
107 
18 (16.8%) 
103 
41 (39.8%) 
102 
42 (41.2%) 
205 
83 (40.5%) 
48 
10 (20.8%) 
50 
13 (26.0%) 
51 
16 (31.4%) 
101 
29 (28.7%) 
Efficacy  was  observed  in  the  golimumab  groups  irrespective  of  MTX  use  at  baseline,  although  the 
proportion of subjects achieving ACR20 responses was greater in subjects who were receiving MTX 
at baseline. 
•  Major Secondary Endpoints 
ACR 50 Response at Week 14 
The  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  an  ACR  50  response  at  Week  14  was  18.3%  in  the  combined 
golimumab group versus 6.5% in the placebo group (p < 0.001). 
The proportions of subjects achieving an ACR 50 response at Week 14 in the individual golimumab 
groups  were  both  superior  to  the  placebo  group  with  a  slightly  greater  proportion  of  subjects in  the 
golimumab 100 mg group than in the golimumab 50 mg group (50 mg 16.3%, p = 0.006 and 100 mg 
20.3%, p < 0.001). 
DAS28 (Using CRP) Response at Week 14 
The proportion of subjects achieving a DAS28 (using CRP) response at Week 14 was 57.8% in the 
combined  golimumab  group  versus  30.3%  in  the  placebo  group  (p  <  0.001).  The  proportions  of 
subjects  achieving  a  DAS28  (using  CRP)  response  at  Week  14  in  the  individual  golimumab  groups 
were both superior to the placebo group (50 mg 56.2%, p < 0.001 and 100 mg 59.5%, p < 0.001). 
32/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of subjects achieving an ACR20 response at Week 24 
The  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  an  ACR  20  response  at  Week  24  was  38.9%  in  the  combined 
golimumab  group  versus  16.8%  in  the  placebo  group  (p  <  0.001).  The  proportions  of  subjects 
achieving an ACR 20 response at Week 24 in the individual golimumab groups were both superior to 
the placebo group with a greater proportion of subjects in the golimumab 100 mg  group than in the 
golimumab 50 mg group (50 mg 34.0%, p < 0.001 and 100 mg 43.8%, p < 0.001). 
Change From Baseline in HAQ Score at Week 24 
Clinically meaningful and significant improvement from baseline in the HAQ score at Week 24 was 
observed in the combined golimumab group versus the placebo group (median improvement of 0.2500 
vs. 0.0000, respectively; p < 0.001). 
Ancillary analyses 
Sensitivity analyses demonstrated the robustness of these findings with respect to treatment failure and 
missing data rules. 
Subgroup analyses were performed to evaluate consistency of the primary endpoint, the proportion of 
subjects  with  an  ACR  20  response  at  Week  14,  over  demographic,  baseline  disease  and  clinical 
characteristics, and baseline and prior therapies for RA. A consistent treatment benefit versus placebo 
for  subjects  in  the  combined  golimumab  group  was  observed  in  all  subgroups  for  demographic 
characteristics, with the exception of the subgroup of Black race. 
A  consistent  treatment  benefit  versus  placebo  for  subjects  in  the  combined  golimumab  group  was 
observed in a majority of subgroups in this category, with the exception of some subgroups (i.e., RA 
duration >1 to ≤ 3 years, number of swollen and number of tender joints ≤ 5, and functional Class I) in 
which lower efficacy were shown. 
Study C0524T05 (GO-BEFORE) 
This was a placebo-controlled study in subjects with active RA naïve to MTX. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Adult  subjects  were  eligible  to  participate  in  this  study  if  they  had  a  diagnosis  of  RA  for  at  least  3 
months  before  the  first  administration  of  study  agent,  were  MTX-naïve  and  biologic  anti-TNFα 
therapy-naïve, and had active RA. Subjects must not have received disease modifying anti-rheumatic 
drugs  (DMARDs)/systemic  immunosuppressives;  intra-articular,  IM,  or  IV  corticosteroids;  or 
anakinra within 4 weeks prior to the first study dose. 
Definition of active RA and exclusion criteria were the same as in study C0524T06. 
Treatments 
Details of the study treatment in each arm and the key time points during the study are depicted in 
Figure 5. 
33/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5  Study  schema  (C0524T05):  Panel  A  shows  study  treatments;  Panel  B  shows  key 
timepoints  during  the  study.  (EE=early  escape;  DBL=database  lock;  LE=long-term 
extension;  MTX=methotrexate;  PC=placebo  crossover;  PE=primary  endpoint; 
R=randomization) 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of golimumab in  subjects with active 
RA who have not been previously treated with MTX as measured by the reduction of the signs and 
symptoms at Week 24 and inhibition of progression of structural damage at Week 52. 
The secondary objectives were to assess the safety of golimumab, the effect of golimumab on physical 
function  and  health-related  quality  of 
the  pharmacodynamics  (PD),  and  population 
pharmacokinetics (PK) of golimumab in subjects with active RA who have not been previously treated 
with MTX. 
life, 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The two co-primary endpoints were: 
1)  The proportion of subjects achieving ACR50 response at Week 24 
2)  Change from baseline in van der Heijde Modified Sharp score (vdH-S) at Week 52 to evaluate 
inhibition of progression of structural damage (to be reported after all subjects have completed 
52 weeks of treatment and imaging, i.e. was not included in this submission). 
The following major secondary analyses were performed: 
1)  The proportion of subjects achieving an ACR20 response at Week 24. 
2)  The proportion of subjects with abnormal CRP at baseline achieving an ACR50 response at 
Week 24.  
For further details on the main endpoints see description of study C0524T06. 
34/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
The sample size of 150 subjects per treatment group was calculated to provide > 98% power to detect 
a  difference  in  ACR50  response  between  treatment  groups  using  the  2-sided  CMH  test  at  α=0.050. 
This  sample  size  also  provided  approximately  85%  power  to  claim  non-inferiority  of  golimumab 
100 mg  +  placebo  compared  with  placebo  +  MTX  at  α=0.050  using  a  one-sided  equivalence  test 
assuming the proportion of golimumab 100 mg + placebo treated subjects with ACR50 response is not 
less  than  0.10  compared  with  proportion  of  subjects  with  ACR50  response  in  the  placebo  +  MTX 
treated group. 
Randomisation 
Approximately  600  subjects,  stratified  by  screening  CRP  level  (<  1.5  mg/dL;  ≥  1.5  mg/dL)  and 
investigational  site,  were  randomly  assigned  in  a  1:1:1:1  ratio  to  1  of  the  4  treatment  groups  via  a 
centralized IVRS at Week 0. 
Blinding (masking) 
The study blind was to be maintained for all key individuals participating in this study until the 24-
week  data  were  locked.  Study  subjects  and  site  personnel  were  blinded  to  treatment  assignment. 
Unblinding of the investigator was to be done only for compelling safety reasons. 
Statistical methods 
The primary efficacy and selected secondary efficacy analyses were based on all subjects who were 
randomized at Week 0, i.e. intent-to-treat (ITT) population. The Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test 
or chi-square test was to be used as appropriate to compare the proportion of subjects responding to 
treatment. All statistical tests were 2-sided and performed at α=0.050. Continuous response parameters 
were to be compared using an analysis of variance on the van der Waerden normal scores. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
A total of 637 subjects were randomized.  
Figure Figure 6 below shows the disposition of randomized subjects through Week 24. 
Subjects Randomised 
n=637 
Placebo + MTX 
(n=160) 
Golimumab 100 mg 
+ Placebo 
(n=159) 
Golimumab 50 mg 
+ MTX 
(n=159)
Golimumab 100 mg 
+ MTX 
(n=159) 
Treated 
(n=160) 
Treated 
(n=157) 
Not 
Treated 
(n=2) 
Treated 
(n=158) 
Not 
Treated 
(n=1) 
Treated 
(n=159) 
Discon. SC: 10 
Discon. SC: 9 
Discon. SC: 8
Discon. SC: 10 
Figure 6  Disposition of subjects in study C0524T05 through Week 24.  
Discon. SC = Discontinuation of subcutaneous study agent. 
35/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through Week 24, discontinuation of s.c. study agent occurred in 5.8% of randomized subjects and 
discontinuation  of  oral  study  agent  occurred  in  6.4%  of  randomized  subjects.  The  main  reason  for 
discontinuation was due to AE, in particular in the MTX + golimumab combination group. There was 
no  discontinuation  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  in  the  combination  group,  but  3  in  the  golimumab 
monotherapy  group.  In  the  MTX  monotherapy  group,  only  one  stopped  treatment  due  to  lack  of 
efficacy. The proportion of subjects who discontinued s.c. or oral study agent was different because a 
subject could discontinue oral study agent but continue s.c. study agent. 
Recruitment 
The studied period up to 24 weeks was from December 2005 to October 2007. 
Conduct of the study 
The  original  protocol  was  amended  three  times.  Changes  incorporated  in  these  amendments  that 
impact  the  data  analyses  through  Week  24  included  clarifications  of  the  planned  non-inferiority 
analysis,  the  addition  of  analyses  to  evaluate  improvement  in  tender  and  swollen  joints  and 
clarifications  regarding the  interim  clinical  pharmacology  analysis.  For  a  description  of  clinical trial 
supplies issues see study C0524T06. 
Baseline data 
Demographic characteristics at baseline were generally well balanced across treatment groups. Of all 
randomized subjects most were female (82.9% overall), Caucasian (72.4% overall, followed by Asian 
18.4% overall); the median age was 50.0 years overall and the median weight was 69.0 kg overall. 
Baseline  disease  characteristics  indicated  that  subjects  had  moderate  disease,  with  most  subjects 
having  relatively  short  duration  of  disease  (median  from  1.0  to  1.8  years).  The  mean  number  of 
swollen joints at baseline ranged from approximately 15 to 16 and the mean number of tender joints 
ranged from approximately 27 to 29. Treatment groups were generally well balanced with respect to 
baseline disease characteristics, with the exception that the duration of morning stiffness was longer in 
the placebo + MTX group (120 minutes) than in all other groups (105 minutes in the 50 mg + MTX 
group and 90 minutes in the 100 mg + placebo and in the 100 mg + MTX groups). In addition, in the 
golimumab 100 mg + MTX group, the 25th percentile for CRP level was lower (0.30 mg/dl) than that 
observed in all other groups (from 0.50 mg/dl to 0.55 mg/dl). 
Numbers analysed 
The primary efficacy and selected secondary efficacy analyses were based on all subjects who were 
randomized  at  Week  0  (ITT).  As subjects  were to  be  included  in  the  efficacy  analyses according  to 
their  assigned  treatment  group  regardless  of  whether  they  received  the  assigned  treatment,  all  637 
randomized patients were included in the analyses even though only 634 received treatment. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The results of the primary endpoint for which data were submitted were as follows: 
1.  ACR50 Response at Week 24 
36/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9  Number of subjects who achieved an ACR50 response at Week 24 stratified by screening 
CRP level; randomized subjects 
Placebo + 
MTX 
160 
160 
47 (29.4%) 
Golimumab 
100 mg + 
Placebo 
159 
Golimumab + MTX 
50 mg 
100 mg 
Combined 
159 
159 
318 
159 
52 (32.7%) 
0.521 
159 
64 (40.3%) 
0.042 
159 
58 (36.5%) 
0.177 
318 
122 (38.4%) 
0.053 
83 
21 (25.3%) 
80 
30 (37.5%) 
82 
33 (40.2%) 
82 
24 (29.3%) 
164 
57 (34.8%) 
Subjects randomized 
ACR 50 
n 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
Subjects with CRP  
<1.5 mg/dl at 
screening 
n 
Subjects in response 
Subjects with CRP  
≥1.5 mg/dl at 
screening 
n 
Subjects in response 
77 
26 (33.8%) 
79 
22 (27.8%) 
77 
31 (40.3%) 
77 
34 (44.2%) 
154 
65 (42.2%) 
A post-hoc (modified) mITT analysis of the primary endpoint was performed to assess the impact of 
including  randomized  subjects  who  did  not  receive  treatment  in  the  primary  endpoint  evaluation. 
When evaluating the proportion of subjects who achieved an ACR50 response at Week 24 in subjects 
who received at least one dose of s.c. or oral study agent, a comparison of the difference between the 
combined golimumab + MTX and placebo + MTX groups (38.5% vs 29.4%) resulted in a p-value of 
0.049. Comparisons between all other groups were similar to that observed in the pre-specified ITT 
analysis, which included all randomized subjects. 
Noninferiority  testing  between  the  golimumab  100  mg  +  placebo  and  placebo  +  MTX  groups  was 
planned as an analysis under the hierarchical approach for the primary endpoint. The lower bound of 
the  95%  CI  for  the  difference  in  ACR  50  response  at  Week  24  between  these  groups  was  -5.2% 
(noninferiority delta was –10%). These results suggest that the proportion of subjects who achieved an 
ACR 50 response was similar in the golimumab + placebo and placebo + MTX groups. A superiority 
test was performed, but superiority was not observed (p = 0.521). 
Similar results were observed in the noninferiority analysis conducted using a 1-sided 97.5% CI, with 
the  lower  bound  of  the  97.5%  CI  for  the  difference  in  ACR  50  response  at  Week  24  between  the 
golimumab 100 mg + placebo and placebo + MTX groups at -6.8% (noninferiority delta was –10%). 
Major secondary endpoints: 
For the endpoint ACR20, statistical significance was reached for the two combination groups but not 
for monotherapy. At week 24 the ACR responders at higher response levels were similar for all treated 
groups.  Golimumab  monotherapy  was  similar  to  MTX  monotherapy.  The  combination  therapy  had 
slightly more responders but statistical significance was reached only for ACR90 in the 50 mg/MTX 
group. 
During  the  review  process,  52  weeks  controlled  data have  been  submitted.  The  intent-to-treat  (ITT) 
analysis of ACR50 response performed at Week 24 for the primary endpoint was repeated at Week 52. 
Results from the ITT analyses for ACR20, ACR50, ACR70 and ACR90 are shown in Table 10. 
37/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 
Number of subjects who achieved an ACR20, ACR50, ACR70, and ACR90 response 
at Week 52; randomized subjects (C0524T05) 
Placebo 
MTX 
160 
160 
83 (51.9%) 
160 
57 (35.6%) 
160 
35 (21.9%) 
160 
12 (7.5%) 
+ 
Golimumab 
100 mg 
Placebo 
159 
159 
85 (53.5%) 
0.780 
159 
61 (38.4%) 
0.609 
159 
35 (22.0%) 
0.969 
159 
7 (4.4%) 
0.242 
Subjects randomised 
ACR 20 
  n 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
ACR 50 
  n 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
ACR 70 
  n 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
ACR 90 
  n 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
Ancillary analyses 
Golimumab + MTX 
+ 
50 mg 
159 
159 
95 (59.7%) 
0.157 
100 mg 
159 
Combined 
318 
318 
159 
106 (66.7%)  201 (63.2%) 
0.007 
0.017 
159 
67 (42.1%) 
0.235 
159 
77 (48.4%) 
0.021 
318 
144 (45.3%) 
0.044 
159 
45 (28.3%) 
0.187 
159 
50 (31.4%) 
0.054 
318 
95 (29.9%) 
0.064 
159 
22 (13.8%) 
0.068 
159 
19 (11.9%) 
0.181 
318 
41 (12.9%) 
0.077 
DAS28 Remission at Week 24 
In  the  evaluation  of  DAS28  remission  calculated  using  CRP  at  Week  24,  a  numerically  greater 
proportion of subjects achieved DAS28 remission in the combined golimumab + MTX group than in 
the placebo + MTX group. 
DAS28 Responders at Week 24 
In  the  evaluation  of  DAS28  responders  calculated  using  CRP  at  Week  24,  there  was  a  numerically 
greater  proportion  of  DAS28  responders  in  the  combined  golimumab  +  MTX  group  than  in  the 
placebo + MTX group. 
Psoriatic Arthritis 
One study was undertaken in patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA). 
Study C0524T08 (GO-REVEAL)  
METHODS 
This  was  a  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  (through  Week  24)  study 
designed  to  assess  the  efficacy,  safety,  and  clinical  pharmacology  of  golimumab  50  mg  or  100  mg 
administered as s.c. injections q4w in adult subjects with active PsA. 
Study Participants  
Subjects eligible for this study were men and women, 18 years of age or older, with a diagnosis of PsA 
for at least 6 months prior to first study agent administration who had active PsA despite current or 
previous  disease-modifying  antirheumatic  drug  (DMARD)  or  nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  drug 
(NSAID) therapy, and who had not previously been treated with anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α 
therapy.  Exclusion  criteria  included  general  contraindications  for  anti-TNF  therapy  and  also  for 
previous  treatment  with  other  anti-TNF/biologics.  Furthermore,  patients  were  not  to  have  other 
inflammatory  diseases,  having  received  e.g.  any  systemic  immunosuppressives  or  DMARDs  other 
than MTX, or anakinra within 4 weeks prior to the first administration of study agent, or leflunomide, 
38/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
alefacept or efalizumab within 3 months prior to the first administration of study agent. Previous use 
of any anti-TNFα, agent, or rituximab or natalizumab was not allowed.  
Treatments 
Details of the study treatment in each arm and the key time points during the study are depicted in 
Figure 7. 
Figure 7  Study  schema  (C0524T08):  Panel  A  shows  study  treatments;  Panel  B  shows  key 
timepoints  during  the  study.  (EE=early  escape;  DBL=database  lock;  LE=long-term 
extension;  MTX=methotrexate;  PC=placebo  crossover;  PE=primary  endpoint; 
R=randomization) 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  this  trial  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  s.c.  injections  of  golimumab  in 
subjects with active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) by assessing reduction in signs and symptoms of PsA and 
inhibition of progression of structural damage. 
The major secondary objectives of this trial were to evaluate the efficacy of golimumab in: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
achieving sustained arthritis response, 
improving psoriatic skin lesions, 
improving physical function, 
improving quality of life; and to assess the safety of golimumab in subjects with active PsA. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
To test the primary objective, two co-primary endpoints have been established: 
•  ACR20 response at Week 14 
39/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Change from baseline in PsA modified van der Heijde-Sharp (vdH-S) score at Week 24. Data 
for the co-primary endpoint of change from baseline in PsA modified van der Heijde-Sharp 
(vdH-S) score at Week 24 were not provided in this application. 
Major secondary analyses included ACR20 response at Week 24 ; Psoriasis Area and Severity Index 
(PASI) 75 response at Week 14 ; improvement from baseline in HAQ scores at Week 24 and change 
from baseline in the physical component summary score of the SF 36 at Week 14. 
In  addition,  other  secondary  endpoints  related  to  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  arthritis,  psoriasis, 
physical function, and quality of life were evaluated (ACR50, 70 at Week 14 and 24, ACR-N index of 
improvement, PsARC response at week 14 and 24, DAS28 at Week 14 and 24). 
Sample size 
The study was powered to detect significant treatment differences in reducing signs and symptoms of 
arthritis and inhibition of progression of structural damage. With 396 subjects (110 placebo and 286 
combined  golimumab),  a  simulation  of  5000 repetitions  was  used to  calculate  the  power  to detect  a 
significant difference in the proportion of subjects achieving an ACR 20 response using a CMH test 
with stratification by subjects’ baseline MTX usage (yes/no).  
Randomisation 
Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  a  treatment  group  via  a  centralized  interactive  voice  response 
system  IVRS  at  Week  0  (Day  1).  Patients  were  stratified  by  investigational  study  site  and  baseline 
MTX use (yes/no). 
Blinding (masking) 
Randomization  files  containing  treatment  assignments  for  individual  subjects  were  maintained  in 
limited-access directories within the electronic data filing system at the central randomization center. 
Unblinding of the investigator was to be done only for compelling safety reasons. 
Statistical methods 
All  efficacy  analyses  were  based  on  randomized  subjects;  i.e.,  the  intent-to-treat  population  (ITT). 
Pearson’s  chi-square  test  was  used  to  compare  binary  categorical  data,  and  the  Cochran-Mantel-
Haenszel  (CMH)  chi-square  test  to  compare  binary  categorical  data  with  stratification  (stratified  by 
baseline  MTX  usage  [yes/no]).  Analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  on  van  der  Waerden  normal  scores 
with  treatment  and  subject’s  baseline  MTX  usage  as  factors  in  the  model  was  used  to  compare 
continuous data, unless otherwise specified. Additional analyses that adjusted for baseline differences 
were  to  be  performed  if  baseline  imbalances  were  found  for  any  demographic  factors.  The  two  co-
primary analyses were performed in a sequential manner. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Figure 8 below shows the subject distribution and disposition through Week 24 (randomized subjects). 
40/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8  Distribution and disposition of subjects in study C0524T08 through Week 24; 
randomized subjects. 
The AEs leading to discontinuation were in the placebo group 1 SAE of vertigo and headache, 1 SAE 
of urosepsis, 1 AEs of headache/nausea/chills, and 1 with an AE of isoniaside (INH)-induced hepatitis. 
With  golimumab  50  mg,  there  was  1  SAE  of  acute  abscess  and  1  with  elevated  ALT/AST,  and  for 
golimumab 100 mg, 1 AEs with fatigue and 1 with prostate cancer. 
Recruitment 
The studied period up to 24 weeks was from December 2005 to May 2007. 
Conduct of the study 
For a description of clinical trial supplies issues see study C0524T06. 
Baseline data 
Demographic  characteristics  of  subjects  at  baseline  were  generally  well  balanced  across  treatment 
groups with the majority of subjects being men (60.2%); most subjects were Caucasian (97.0%), the 
median age was 47.0 years and the median weight 84.0 kg. 
Clinical  disease  characteristics  at  baseline,  including  duration  of  PsA  and  psoriasis,  were  generally 
similar  across  the  randomized  groups.  Of  note,  the  placebo  group  included  a  greater  proportion  of 
subjects  with  polyarticular  arthritis  with  no  rheumatoid  nodules  and  a  lower  proportion  of  subjects 
with  asymmetric  peripheral  arthritis  than  the  combined  golimumab  group.  Also,  the  majority  of 
subjects  (69.9%  in  the  placebo  and  74.3%  in  the  combined  golimumab  groups)  had  ≥  3%  BSA 
involvement with psoriasis; the median BSA in these subjects was 8.0% (range 3, 62) in the placebo 
group  and  10.0%  (range  3,  99)  in  the  combined  golimumab  group.  And  the  median  duration  of 
psoriasis  (17.50  years  in  the  placebo  group;  16.40  years  in  the  combined  golimumab  group)  was 
substantially greater than the median duration of PsA (5.10 years in the placebo group; 5.15 years in 
the combined golimumab group). 
Baseline  clinical  characteristics  of  PsA  from  the  ACR  core  set  of  outcome  measurements  were 
indicative of subjects with PsA of moderate to severe activity and similar across the treatment groups. 
The  median  numbers  of  swollen  or  tender  joints  were  similar  (range  9.5  to  11.0  and  18.0  to  19.0, 
respectively)  across  the  treatment  groups,  and  indicative  of  moderate  to  severe  disease  activity. 
Median  CRP  levels  were  the  same  (0.60  mg/dl)  across  all  treatment  groups  (range  0.3,  12.1).  The 
population had impaired physical function as indicated by mean ± SD HAQ scores of 1.027 ± 0.548 
for  the  placebo  group  and  1.016  ±  0.636  for  the  combined  golimumab  group.  Median  VAS 
assessments,  including  patient’s  assessment  of  pain  and  both  the  patient’s  and  physician’s  global 
assessments  of  disease  activity  were  similar  across  treatment  groups  and  indicative  of  moderate  to 
severe disease activity. 
41/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
The primary analyses at Week 16 were undertaken in 113 placebo patients, and 146 patients in each 
group of 50 or 100 mg golimumab.  
Outcomes and estimation 
• 
Primary endpoint 
Table 11  Number of subjects who achieved an ACR20 response at Week 14 stratified by baseline 
MTX use; randomized subjects 
Subjects randomized 
ACR 20 
n 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
Subjects receiving MTX at baseline 
n 
Subjects in response 
Subjects not receiving MTX at 
baseline 
n 
Subjects in response 
•  Major secondary endpoints 
Placebo 
113 
113 
10 (8.8%) 
50 mg 
146 
Golimumab 
100 mg 
146 
Combined 
292 
146 
74 (50.7%) 
< 0.001 
146 
66 (45.2%) 
< 0.001 
292 
140 (47.9%) 
< 0.001 
55 
8 (14.5%) 
71 
38 (53.5%) 
71 
32 (45.1%) 
142 
70 (49.3%) 
58 
2 (3.4%) 
75 
36 (48.0%) 
75 
34 (45.3%) 
150 
70 (46.7%) 
ACR20 response at Week 24: 
ACR20  response  at  Week  24  was  achieved  in  a  significantly  greater  proportion  of  subjects  in  the 
combined golimumab group (and in each golimumab dose group) than in the placebo group at Week 
24 (56.5% vs. 12.4%; p < 0.001). ACR 20 response with golimumab treatment was noted as early as 
Week  4.  At  Week  24,  52.1%  of  subjects  in  the  golimumab  50  mg  group  and  61.0%  in  the  100  mg 
group achieved an ACR 20 response. 
PASI 75 Response at Week 14: 
The  proportion  of  subjects  with  ≥  3%  BSA  psoriasis  skin  involvement  at  baseline  who  achieved  a 
PASI 75 response at Week 14 was significantly greater (p < 0.001) in the combined golimumab group 
(49.3%) and in each of the individual golimumab groups than in the placebo group (2.5%). A larger 
proportion  of  subjects  achieved  a  PASI  75  response  at  Week  14  in  the  golimumab  100  mg  group 
(58.3%) than in the 50 mg group (40.4%). 
Improvement from baseline in HAQ score at Week 24: 
The improvement from baseline in the HAQ score at Week 24 was significantly greater (p < 0.001) in 
the combined golimumab group and in each of the individual golimumab groups than in the placebo 
group. 
Change From Baseline in Physical Component Summary Score of the SF-36 at Week 14: 
The change from baseline in SF-36 PCS scores at Week 14 was significantly greater (p < 0.001) in the 
combined  golimumab  group  and  in  each  of  the  individual  golimumab  groups  than  in  the  placebo 
group. 
•  Other efficacy endpoints 
During  the  procedure, the applicant submitted Week 52  data.  It  should  be  noted  that all subjects  on 
placebo  switched  to  active  treatment  after  Week  24,  and  a  number  of  subjects  in  all  groups  had 
changed  the  original  treatment  regimen  during  the  study  period.  This  makes  interpretation  of  these 
42/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
results difficult. The Table below shows ACR results through Week 52, taking early escape and cross 
over into account.  
Table 12 
ACR20,  ACR50,  and  ACR70  responses  after  Week 24  through  Week 52  by  early 
escape or crossover status; randomized subjects (C0524T08) 
Placebo  →  Golimumab
50 mg 
Golimumab 50 mg 
Golimumab 100 mg 
(Week
EE 
16-52)a 
Crossover 
(Week 24-52)b
51 
Goli  50 mg
Onlyc 
118 
EE 
(50 mg →  
100 mg)a 
28 
100  mg
Onlyc 
121 
100  mg  →
100 mga 
25 
Combined 
100 mg 
146 
Subjects randomized  51 
Week 52 
N 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
a 
b 
c 
49 
47 
28 (59.6%)  43 (87.8%) 
18 (38.3%)  22 (44.9%) 
13 (26.5%) 
7 (14.9%) 
Subjects in these groups met the early escape criteria at Week 16. 
Subjects in this group did not discontinue study agent prior to Week 24 and crossed over at Week 24. 
Subjects in these groups did not meet the early escape criteria at Week 16. 
102 
80 (78.4%)  11 (42.3%)  93 (80.9%) 7 (35.0%)  100 (74.1%)
68 (59.1%) 3 (15.0%)  71 (52.6%) 
58 (56.9%)  7 (26.9%) 
42 (31.1%) 
41 (35.7%) 1 (5.0%) 
44 (43.1%)  3 (11.5%) 
135 
115 
20 
26 
Ancillary analyses 
• 
Sensitivity analysis 
The  sensitivity  analyses  undertaken  supported  the  result  of  the  primary  analysis.  The  number  of 
ACR20 responders was statistically significantly increased in both golimumab groups also at week 24 
and  differences  were  observed  at  the  first  evaluation  time  of  4  weeks.  Also  for  the  stricter  ACR 
endpoints (ACR50 and ACR70), golimumab resulted in significantly more responders at week 14 and 
24, which further supports clinically relevant efficacy. Furthermore, golimumab treatment resulted in 
statistically significant improvement of physical function at week 14 and week 24. 
• 
Subgroups analysis 
All  subgroup  analyses  of  ACR20  response  at  Week  14  across  baseline  demographics,  disease 
characteristics,  and  disease  severity  demonstrated  significant  treatment  benefit  for  golimumab  over 
placebo. Selected subgroup analyses by gender, age, and baseline weight, MTX use, and CRP levels 
were performed for golimumab 50  mg and 100 mg and confirmed the efficacy of both doses across 
these  baseline  characteristics.  Similar  efficacy  results  for  golimumab  50  mg  and  100  mg  were  seen 
across all the quartiles of baseline weight, including the heaviest subjects. 
Subgroup  analyses  indicate  that  in  the  most  common  PsA  subgroup,  the  polyarticular  form, 
golimumab  is  effective,  as  well  as  in  the  asymmetric  form.  Other  PsA  forms  were  uncommon,  and 
thus no conclusion on effects in those groups can be drawn. 
Ankylosing Spondylitis 
Study C0524T09 (GO-RAISE) 
Study  C0524T09  is  a  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  (through  Week  24) 
study  designed  to  assess  the  efficacy,  safety,  and  clinical  pharmacology  of  golimumab  50  mg  or 
100 mg administered as subcutaneous injections every 4 weeks in adult subjects with active AS. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
43/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Men and women 18 years of age or older were eligible to participate if, for at least 3 months prior to 
the  first  administration  of  study  agent,  they  had  a  diagnosis  of  definite  AS,  as  defined  by  the  1984 
Modified New York Criteria. 
Furthermore, both the radiographic criterion and at least 1 clinical criterion must be met: 
•  Radiographic  criterion:  Sacroiliitis  Grade  ≥  2  bilaterally  or  sacroiliitis  Grade  3  to  4 
unilaterally. 
•  Clinical criteria (at least 1):  
1.  Low back pain and stiffness for more than 3 months, which improves with exercise, but is 
not relieved by rest 
2.  Limitation of motion of the lumbar spine in both the sagittal and frontal planes 
3.  Limitation of chest expansion relative to normal values corrected for age and sex 
Exclusion  criteria  included  general  contraindications  for  anti-TNF  therapy  and  also  for  previous 
treatment  with  other  anti-TNF/biologics.  In  addition,  patients  were  not  to  have  other  inflammatory 
diseases,  or  complete  ankylosis  of 
received,  e.g.  any  systemic 
immunosuppressives,  or  DMARDs  other  than  MTX,  SSZ,  HCG  within  4  weeks  prior  to  the  first 
administration  of  study  agent,  or  leflunomide,  alefacept  or  efalizumab  within  3  months  prior  to  the 
first administration of study agent. Previous use of any anti-TNFα, agent, or rituximab or natalizumab 
was not allowed. 
the  spine,  or  having 
Treatments 
Details of the study treatment in each arm and the key time points during the study are depicted in 
Figure 9. 
Figure 9  Study  schema  (C0524T09):  Panel  A  shows  study  treatments;  Panel  B  shows  key 
timepoints  during  the  study.  (EE=early  escape;  DBL=database  lock;  LE=long-term 
extension;  MTX=methotrexate;  PC=placebo  crossover;  PE=primary  endpoint; 
R=randomization) 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this trial was to assess the efficacy of s.c. injections of golimumab in subjects 
44/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with active AS as measured by reduction in signs and symptoms of active AS at Week 14. 
The secondary objectives were to assess the overall safety of golimumab; the effects of golimumab on 
physical  function,  structural  damage,  and  quality  of  life,  and  population  PK  and  PD  effects  of 
golimumab. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint is whether a subject achieved Assessment in Ankylosing Spondylitis (ASAS) 20 
at Week 14. 
The following major secondary analyses were performed in order of importance as specified below: 
•  The proportion of subjects achieving an ASAS 20 at Week 24. 
•  The  change  from  baseline  in  the  Bath  Ankylosing  Spondylitis  Functional  Index  (BASFI)  at 
Week 14. 
•  The change from baseline in the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Metrology  Index  (BASMI) at 
Week 14. 
Sample size 
The  sample  sizes  were  chosen  in  order  to  obtain  at  least  300  subjects  with  6  months  exposure  to 
golimumab, including placebo subjects who switch over to golimumab. It was assumed that half the 
subjects would have baseline CRP ≤ 1.5 mg/dl and half will have baseline CRP > 1.5 mg/dl and that 
there are 75 subjects in the placebo group and 135 subjects in each of the golimumab groups, a sample 
size which would be sufficient to attain at least 80% power. 
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomly assigned to a group via a centralized interactive active voice response system 
(IVRS) at Week 0 (Day 1). To ensure relatively even treatment balance within site, within screening 
CRP level (≤ 1.5 mg/dl; > 1.5 mg/dl), and within the study overall, subject allocation to a group was 
performed  using  an  adaptive  stratified  randomization  design  (minimization  with  biased-coin 
assignment). 
Blinding (masking) 
Randomization  files  containing  treatment  assignments  for  individual  subjects  were  maintained  in 
limited-access directories within the electronic data filing system at the central randomization center. 
Unblinding of the investigator was to be done only for compelling safety reasons. 
Statistical methods 
All efficacy analyses were based on randomized subjects, i.e. the ITT. Pearson’s chi-square test was 
used  to  compare  binary  categorical  data,  and  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  (CMH)  chi-square  test  was 
used to compare binary categorical data with stratification (stratified by screening CRP level). 
In the analyses of efficacy endpoints, the first test compared golimumab at any dose (golimumab 50 
mg and 100 mg combined) versus placebo. If the results were significant, then pairwise comparisons 
of golimumab 50 mg versus placebo and golimumab 100 mg versus placebo were made. This method 
protected  the  significance  level  at  0.05:  A  golimumab  dose  group  that  was  nominally  significantly 
better  than  the  placebo  group  would  not  be  reported  as  significant  unless  the  combined  golimumab 
groups were significantly better than the placebo group as well. 
All statistical testing was 2-tailed, at a significance level of 0.05.  
45/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
* 1 subject in golimumab 50 mg group was randomized but not treated. 
Figure 10 
Subject distribution and disposition through Week 24; randomized subjects. 
Through  Week  24,  17  (4.8%)  subjects  permanently  discontinued  study  treatment,  5.4%  in  the 
combined golimumab group and 2.6% in the placebo group. The most common reasons were AEs and 
“other” (including withdrawal of consent). 
Recruitment 
The studied period up to 24 weeks was from December 2005 to May 2007. 
Conduct of the study 
For a description of clinical trial supplies issues see study C0524T06. 
Baseline data 
Demographic characteristics of subjects at baseline were generally well balanced across groups. The 
majority of the subjects were male (71.6%), consistent with the expected epidemiology of the disease. 
Most subjects were Caucasian (73.6%) or Asian (23.9%), the median age was 38.5 years (range: 18 to 
83) and the median weight 75.2 kg (range: 35.0 to 142.6). 
Baseline Disease Characteristics: 
High  proportions  of  subjects  in  the  golimumab  50  mg  (81.8%),  golimumab  100  mg  (84.3%),  and 
placebo (84.6%) groups tested positive for human leukocyte antigen (HLA) B27. Approximately two 
thirds of the subjects had screening CRP ≤1.5 mg/dl with even distribution across treatment groups. 
Subjects had AS with a median duration of 5.15 years in the golimumab 50 mg group, 5.20 years in 
the golimumab 100 mg group, and 7.25 years in the placebo group. Since these differences may have 
affected response, duration of AS was added to a planned logistic regression analysis of ASAS 20 at 
Week 14. 
Disease activity assessed by the subject on a 0 to 10 cm VAS included patient global assessment, total 
back pain and inflammation (morning stiffness). The median patient global assessment was 7.1 for the 
combined  golimumab  group  and  7.2 for the  placebo group.  The  median  total  back  pain  was  7.6  for 
both the combined golimumab and placebo groups. The median inflammation (morning stiffness) was 
46/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3 for the combined golimumab group and 7.05 for the placebo group. These levels of disease activity 
indicated the subjects experienced a moderately high level of pain and inflammation. 
The  median  chest  expansion  was  3.5  cm,  for  both  the  combined  golimumab  and  placebo  groups, 
which is below normal as expected in AS patient population (6.5 cm for males, 4.5 cm for females, 35-
44 years of age). Night back pain, also assessed by subjects on a 0 to 10 cm VAS, was 7.4 for both the 
combined golimumab and placebo groups. 
The  BASMI  evaluation  was  slightly  higher  for  the  placebo  group  than  the  combined  golimumab 
group.  BASFI  scores  for  all  groups  (placebo  group:  4.93  and  combined  golimumab  group:  5.25) 
indicated  impaired  physical  function.  Median  Bath  Ankylosing  Spondylitis  Disease  Activity  Index 
(BASDAI) score of 6.58 for the placebo group and 6.85 for the combined golimumab group indicate 
moderate to severe disease activity. The median value for the Jenkins sleep evaluation questionnaire 
were indicative of similar levels of impaired sleep across all treatment groups. 
Numbers analysed 
All efficacy analyses were based on the ITT population. See participant flow above for number of 
randomized subjects. 
Outcomes and estimation 
• 
Primary Endpoint 
The proportion of subjects achieving ASAS 20 response at Week 14 in the golimumab 50 mg group 
(59.4%) and the golimumab 100 mg group (60.0%) was significantly greater (p < 0.001) than in the 
placebo group (21.8%) (Table 13). 
Table 13  Number of subjects who achieved an ASAS 20 response at Week 14 stratified by 
screening CRP level; randomized subjects 
Subjects randomized 
ASAS 20 
n 
Subjects in response 
p-value 
CRP (mg/L)≤ 1.5 mg/dL 
n 
Subjects in response 
CRP > 1.5 mg/dL 
n 
Subjects in response 
Placebo 
78 
78 
17 (21.8%) 
50 mg q4w 
138 
138 
82 (59.4%) 
< 0.001 
Golimumab 
100 mg q4w 
140 
Combined 
278 
140 
84 (60.0%) 
< 0.001 
278 
166 (59.7%) 
< 0.001 
46 
10 (21.7%) 
79 
40 (50.6%) 
81 
43 (53.1%) 
160 
83 (51.9%) 
32 
7 (21.9%) 
59 
42 (71.2%) 
59 
41 (69.5%) 
118 
83 (70.3%) 
Incorrectly  entered  CRP  values  resulted  in  34  subjects  being  assigned  to  the  wrong  stratum  at 
randomization.  The  misstratification  did  not  impact  the  ASAS  20  analysis  and  therefore  all  other 
analyses were conducted with CRP levels as entered in the IVRS. 
•  Major secondary endpoints 
For  these  analyses,  each  ASAS  component  value  at  Week  24  was  replaced  with  the  corresponding 
component value at Week 16 for subjects in the placebo and golimumab 50 mg groups who met early 
escape criteria at Week 16. No change was made for subjects in the golimumab 100 mg group since 
these subjects had no change in their dose per protocol. 
ASAS 20 at Week 24: 
The  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  ASAS  20  response  at  Week  24  in  the  combined  golimumab 
group (60.8%) was significantly greater (p < 0.001) than the proportion in the placebo group (23.1%). 
47/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of subjects achieving ASAS 20 response in each of the individual golimumab groups 
was  also  significantly  greater  (p  <  0.001  for  each)  than  the  proportion  in  the  placebo  group.  The 
proportion of subjects achieving ASAS 20 response at Week 14 was maintained through Week 24 for 
all groups. 
BASFI at Week 14: 
A median change from baseline of –1.42 was observed for the combined golimumab group and 0.095 
for the placebo group. Both golimumab groups showed significant improvement (p < 0.001) over the 
placebo group. A negative/decreasing change from baseline is indicative of improvement in BASFI. 
BASMI at Week 14: 
No statistically significant differences were observed between golimumab groups and placebo group. 
A negative/decreasing change from baseline is indicative of improvement in BASMI. 
•  Other efficacy analysis 
Significant  treatment  benefit  for  golimumab  50  mg  and  100  mg  groups  was  also  seen  using  other 
measures  of  improvement  in  AS  signs  and  symptoms.  In  particular,  subjects  in  both  golimumab 
groups  had  greater  improvement  than  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  as  measured  by  the  BASDAI, 
patient  global  assessment  of  disease  activity,  total  back  pain  assessment,  change  in  inflammation 
(measured by morning stiffness), change in CRP, and night back pain assessment at Weeks 14 and 24. 
Ancillary analyses 
• 
Sensitivity analyses 
Five sensitivity analyses were conducted, including 3 planned and 2 post hoc analyses. In the planned 
analyses,  subjects  who  discontinued  due  to  AEs  were  considered  nonresponders  or  subjects  with 
insufficient data to determine ASAS 20 response were considered nonresponders or the analysis was 
based on observed data only. In the post hoc analyses subjects who missed at least 1 administration of 
study agent for any reason prior to Week 14 were considered nonresponders, or were excluded.  
The  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  ASAS  20  response  in  the  combined  golimumab  group  and  in 
each  of  the  individual  golimumab  groups  in  each  sensitivity  analysis  remained  significantly  greater 
(p < 0.001 for each) than the proportion in the placebo group. 
• 
Subgroup analyses 
HLA-B27 status did not affect ASAS 20 response to golimumab. 
The impact of weight on ASAS 20 response was not apparent in subjects receiving golimumab 100 mg 
dose. However, in the golimumab 50  mg treatment group, the ASAS 20 response was lower among 
subjects  in  the  highest  quartile  of  weight  (>  87  kg).  The  odds  ratios  relative  to  placebo  were  not 
significant  for  golimumab  50  mg  group  in  weight  quartile  >  87  kg  and  for  golimumab  100  mg  in 
weight  quartile  >  75.15  to  ≤87  kg.  An  exploratory  logistic  regression  analysis  of  the  ASAS  20 
response at Week 14 was run based on several factors including weight, and results indicated that with 
increasing weight, ASAS 20 response rate decreased. 
In both sub groups of CRP levels, the ASAS 20 response in golimumab 50 mg and 100 mg groups was 
significantly greater (p < 0.001) than in the placebo group. Effects due to treatment group (p < 0.001), 
screening CRP (p = 0.0062), and weight (p = 0.0140) were significant. 
•  Relationship Between Antibodies to Golimumab and ASAS 20 Response 
Samples for the measurement of antibodies to golimumab were collected at Weeks 0 and 24. In the 
golimumab 50 mg group, 3 (60.0%) of 5 subjects classified as positive, 7 (50.0%) of 14 classified as 
negative,  and  67  (74.4%)  of  90  classified  as  undetectable  for  antibodies  to  golimumab  achieved  an 
48/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASAS 20 response. In the golimumab 100 mg group, 2 (66.7%) of 3 subjects classified as positive, 5 
(50.0%) of 10 classified as negative, and 85 (68.0%) of 125 classified as undetectable for antibodies to 
golimumab achieved an ASAS 20 response. 
None of the subjects positive for antibodies to golimumab was receiving MTX at baseline. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Effect of methotrexate 
Across the 5 Phase 3 studies (C0524T05, C0524T06, C0524T08, C0524T09 and C0524T11), results 
show  that  golimumab  +  MTX  results  in  higher  mean  steady-state  trough  golimumab  concentrations 
(Ctrough,  ss)  than  treatment  with  the  same  golimumab  dose  without  MTX  in  subjects  from  the  3 
population of patients RA, PsA and SA. 
Study Agent Self-administration 
Of the 1537 treated subjects in the three RA studies, 234 (15.2%) subjects self-administered the study 
agent at least once through Week 24. Of the 17,617 injections administered through Week 24, 1195 
(6.8%)  were  self-administered.  No  formal  analyses  were  conducted  in  this  subset  of  the  study 
population. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Studies in special populations have not been conducted. 
•  Supportive studies 
Antibody development 
Overall the incidence of antibodies to golimumab was low, with a combined incidence of 4.3% across 
all subjects treated in Phase 3 and similar rates were shown in each rheumatologic indication.  Across 
the 5 Phase 3 studies, the antibody incidence was similar for subjects receiving 50 mg + MTX (1.7%) 
compared with subjects receiving 100 mg + MTX (1.9%).  Treatment with concomitant MTX resulted 
in  a  lower  proportion  of  subjects  with  antibodies  to  golimumab  than  subjects  receiving  golimumab 
without  MTX  (approximately  2%  versus  7%,  respectively),  although  this  was  only  evaluated  in  a 
randomized  manner  for  subjects  receiving  golimumab  100  mg  in  C0524T05  and  C0524T06.  
Approximately half of the antibody responses observed in the Phase 2 RA study were neutralizing as 
measured by a cell-based functional assay. 
Limited  safety  data  suggest  that  the  presence  of  antibodies  to  golimumab  may  increase  the  risk  of 
injection  site  reactions,  which  is  reflected  in  the  SPC.  The  small  number  of  subjects  positive  for 
antibodies  to  golimumab  limits  the  ability  to  draw  definitive  conclusions  regarding  the  relationship 
between  antibodies  to  golimumab  and  PK,  clinical  efficacy,  or  safety  (injection  site  reactions) 
measures. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  data  are  based  on  completed  and  ongoing  clinical  studies  of  golimumab  in  the  three 
rheumatologic indications RA, PsA and AS. The five pivotal Phase 3 studies are being conducted for 5 
years with safety data ranging from 24 weeks to over 52 weeks of treatment. The applicant has also 
considered  safety  data  from  other  indications  (e.g.  severe,  persistent  asthma).  Moreover,  data  in 
healthy subjects who were administered golimumab were presented. 
The  safety  data  for  all  three  indications  will  be  presented  under  the  respective  subheading  below 
and/or as an integrated analysis across the combined indications, as most relevant. It should be pointed 
out  that  Week  16  was  the  primary  focus  for  the  safety  comparisons,  because  this  time  point  allows 
comparisons between the treatment groups that are unbiased by the extent of follow-up and extent of 
exposure. Data beyond Week 16 represent shorter follow-up for the placebo group compared with the 
49/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
golimumab groups. In addition, the average follow-up at the last safety cut-off for golimumab 50 mg 
was  shorter  than  for  golimumab  100  mg.  These  facts  lead  to  limitations  of  the  safety  data  base  for 
golimumab. 
•  Patient exposure 
Table 14 shows the number of subjects for each indication through the latest safety data cut-off (June 
2008) by length of exposure to subcutaneous golimumab (50 and 100 mg). For all 5 pivotal studies, 
there was a possibility of Early Escape (EE) at Week 16 or 28 depending on the study. The numbers of 
patients exposed for different lengths of time are sufficient to meet ICH recommendations. 
Table 14  Number of subjects for each indication by dose and length of exposure to subcutaneous 
study agent; treated subjects in Phase 3 studies of RA, PsA, AS 
RA 
Golimumab 
PsA 
Golimumab 
AS 
Golimumab 
Placebo 
50 mg 
100 mg 
Placebo 
50 mg 
100 mg 
Placebo 
50 mg 
100 mg 
449 
772 
896 
113 
248 
225 
77 
213 
165 
53 (11.8%) 
64 (8.3%) 
134 (29.8%)  94 (12.2%) 
171 (38.1%)  211 (27.3%)  152 (17.0%) 38 (33.6%) 
59 (6.6%) 
50 (5.6%) 
19 (16.8%) 
12 (5.6%)  6 (3.6%)
56 (49.6%)  31 (12.5%)  26 (11.6%)  42 (54.5%)  26 (12.2%)  4 (2.4%)
31 (13.8%) 
12 (4.8%) 
7 (9.1%) 
11 (4.4%) 
7 (3.1%) 
28 (36.4%) 
7 (3.3%) 
Treated 
subjects in 
Phase 3 studies 
Length of 
exposure 
(weeks) 
< 16 
16 to < 24 
24 to < 52 
11 
(6.7%) 
144 
(87.3%) 
35 
(21.2%) 
≥ 52 
91 (20.3%)  403 (52.2%)  635 (70.9%)
0 (0.0%) 
194 (78.2%) 161 (71.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
168 (78.9%)
≥ 104 
3 (0.7%) 
29 (3.8%) 
66 (7.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
32 (12.9%)  51 (22.7%) 
0 (0.0%) 
25 (11.7%) 
•  Adverse events  
Concerning data presented through Week 24, the applicant explained that safety analyses included all 
randomized subjects who received at least 1 administration of study agent, and were summarized by 
actual treatment received. Subjects may appear in more than one column, because the AEs for subjects 
who  changed  treatment  (i.e.,  from  placebo  to  golimumab  50  mg  or  from  golimumab  50  mg  to 
golimumab  100  mg)  are  captured in  two  columns  depending  on  whether  the  AE  occurred  before  or 
after the change in treatment. Of note, due to escapee included in this study design, the data displays 
through  Week  24  should  be  interpreted  taking  into  consideration  that  there  is  a  difference  in  the 
number of s.c. study agent administrations and the duration of follow-up for the placebo, golimumab 
50 mg, and golimumab 100 mg groups and for subjects who entered treatment in EE. In this display, 
placebo  subjects  have  a  fewer  number  of  administrations  and  shorter  follow-up  than  subjects 
remaining on golimumab 50 mg or golimumab 100 mg throughout week 24. Subjects treated in early 
escape had the fewest number of s.c. study agent administrations and shortest follow-up. 
Infections  and  infestations,  including  serious  cases  were  the  most  common  AE/SAE  reported  for 
golimumab across all indications. At latter time points in the studies (Week 24, or the last safety cut-
off),  the  AE  event  profiles  were  similar  to  the  Week  16  period.  Further  details  for  the  respective 
indications are presented below. 
50/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Table 15  Number  of  subjects  with  any  AEs  (with  frequency  of  ≥  5%  occurring  in  subjects 
receiving  either  golimumab  dose)  through  Week  16  by  MedDRA  system-organ  class 
and preferred term; treated subjects in RA Phase 3 studies. 
Treated subjects in RA Phase 3 
studiesc 
Avg duration of follow-up (weeks) 
Avg exposure (number of 
administrations) 
Subjects with any adverse events 
System-organ class/preferred term 
Infections and infestations 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Investigations 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Vascular disorders 
Placebob 
449 
15.6 
3.8 
50 mg 
399 
16.0 
3.9 
Golimumaba
100 mg 
691 
15.9 
3.9 
Combined 
1089 
15.9 
3.9 
290 (64.6%) 
270 (67.7%) 
454 (65.7%) 
723 (66.4%) 
107 (23.8%) 
29 (6.5%) 
108 (27.1%) 
25 (6.3%) 
179 (25.9%) 
49 (7.1%) 
287 (26.4%) 
74 (6.8%) 
79 (17.6%) 
19 (4.2%) 
52 (11.6%) 
80 (20.1%) 
24 (6.0%) 
44 (11.0%) 
113 (16.4%) 
38 (5.5%) 
101 (14.6%) 
193 (17.7%) 
62 (5.7%) 
145 (13.3%) 
68 (15.1%) 
54 (13.5%) 
82 (11.9%) 
136 (12.5%) 
46 (10.2%) 
41 (10.3%) 
72 (10.4%) 
113 (10.4%) 
36 (8.0%) 
47 (10.5%) 
39 (9.8%) 
46 (11.5%) 
28 (6.2%) 
21 (4.7%) 
31 (7.8%) 
18 (4.5%) 
54 (7.8%) 
46 (6.7%) 
52 (7.5%) 
36 (5.2%) 
93 (8.5%) 
92 (8.4%) 
83 (7.6%) 
54 (5.0%) 
37 (5.4%) 
52 (4.8%) 
15 (3.8%) 
a Prior to Week 16, received golimumab with or without MTX. 
b Prior to Week 16, received placebo with or without MTX. 
c C0524T05, C0524T06, and C0524T11. 
6 (1.3%) 
Up  to  Week  16,  for  the  SOC  vascular  disorders,  a  higher  proportion  of  AEs  were  reported  for 
golimumab (4.8%) than placebo (1.3%). This was mainly driven by hypertension, which occurred in 
3.1% of subjects on golimumab and 0.7% on placebo. Hypertension is included into the SPC, and has 
been added to the RMP as an identified risk. 
The  table  below  shows  total  number  of  AEs,  the  SOC  infections  and  infestations  and  AEs  that 
occurred in ≥ 5% of either golimumab + MTX group in study C0524T05 through week 52. 
Table 16 
AE 
MTX 
Golimumab 100 mg 
Total AEs reported 
Infections and infestations 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection: 
Nasopharyngitis 
Influenza 
Bronchitis 
Nausea 
Dyspepsia 
Vomiting 
81% 
48% 
13.2% 
4.4% 
6.9% 
8.2% 
16.5% 
7.5% 
3.8% 
78% 
45% 
9.6% 
6.4% 
1.9% 
5.7% 
7.6% 
5.7% 
1.9% 
51/70 
Golimumab 50 mg  
+ MTX 
87% 
46% 
12.7% 
Golimumab 100 mg 
+ MTX 
87% 
48% 
15% 
8.2% 
3.2% 
2.5% 
17.7% 
7.6% 
5.1% 
5.0 
5.6% 
5.6% 
21.9% 
5.6% 
5.6% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhea 
Fatigue 
Injection-site erythema 
Cough 
Headache 
Increase in ALT 
Increase in AST 
Hypertension 
Rash  
2.5% 
8.8% 
5.7% 
0% 
6.3% 
7.5% 
9.4% 
6.3% 
3.8% 
6.3% 
4.5% 
3.2% 
6.4% 
8.3% 
5.7% 
7.0% 
5.7% 
4.5% 
3.2% 
4.5% 
6.3% 
5.7% 
3.8% 
6.3% 
3.8% 
3.8% 
17.7% 
12.7% 
5.7% 
7.0% 
3.8% 
3.1% 
5.6% 
2.5% 
3.8% 
8.1% 
10.0% 
6.9% 
5.6% 
3.8% 
For e.g. nausea, vomiting, and possibly AST/ALT, there were increased incidences in groups where 
MTX was administered, and those are expected adverse effects of MTX.  
Psoriatic arthritis 
Table 17  Number  of  subjects  with  any  adverse  events  (with  frequency  of  ≥  5%  occurring  in 
subjects receiving either golimumab dose) through Week 16 by MedDRA system-organ 
class and preferred term; treated subjects in PsA Phase 3 study 
Treated subjects in PsA Phase 3 
studyc 
Avg duration of follow-up (weeks) 
Avg exposure (number of 
administrations) 
Subjects with any adverse events 
System-organ class/preferred term 
Infections and infestations 
Nasopharyngitis 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Investigations 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Placebob 
113 
15.5 
3.7 
50 mg 
146 
15.9 
3.9 
Golimumaba
100 mg 
146 
16.0 
3.9 
Combined 
292 
16.0 
3.9 
63 (55.8%) 
85 (58.2%) 
82 (56.2%) 
167 (57.2%) 
23 (20.4%) 
4 (3.5%) 
4 (3.5%) 
17 (15.0%) 
15 (13.3%) 
35 (24.0%) 
6 (4.1%) 
11 (7.5%) 
18 (12.3%) 
16 (11.0%) 
45 (30.8%) 
13 (8.9%) 
8 (5.5%) 
20 (13.7%) 
14 (9.6%) 
80 (27.4%) 
19 (6.5%) 
19 (6.5%) 
38 (13.0%) 
30 (10.3%) 
12 (10.6%) 
15 (10.3%) 
14 (9.6%) 
29 (9.9%) 
7 (6.2%) 
16 (11.0%) 
10 (6.8%) 
26 (8.9%) 
15 (13.3%) 
13 (8.9%) 
11 (7.5%) 
24 (8.2%) 
11 (9.7%) 
6 (5.3%) 
7 (6.2%) 
12 (8.2%) 
8 (5.5%) 
12 (8.2%) 
11 (7.5%) 
12 (8.2%) 
8 (5.5%) 
23 (7.9%) 
20 (6.8%) 
20 (6.8%) 
7 (6.2%) 
9 (6.2%) 
4 (2.7%) 
13 (4.5%) 
a Received golimumab prior to Week 16. 
b Received placebo prior to Week 16. 
c C0524T08. 
52/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Table 18  Number  of  subjects  with  any  adverse  events  (with  frequency  of  ≥  5%  occurring  in 
subjects receiving either golimumab dose) through Week 16 by MedDRA system-organ 
class and preferred term; treated subjects in AS Phase 3 study 
Treated subjects in AS Phase 3 
studyc 
Avg duration of follow-up (weeks) 
Avg exposure (number of 
administrations) 
Subjects with any adverse events 
System-organ class/preferred term 
Infections and infestations 
Nasopharyngitis 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Fatigue 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Arthralgia 
Back pain 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Cough 
Pharyngolaryngeal pain 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Investigations 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased 
Eye disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Placebob 
77 
16.0 
3.9 
50 mg 
138 
16.0 
3.9 
Golimumaba
100 mg 
140 
16.0 
3.9 
Combined 
278 
16.0 
3.9 
57 (74.0%) 
109 (79.0%) 
106 (75.7%) 
215 (77.3%) 
21 (27.3%) 
9 (11.7%) 
4 (5.2%) 
15 (19.5%) 
4 (5.2%) 
3 (3.9%) 
1 (1.3%) 
10 (13.0%) 
4 (5.2%) 
16 (20.8%) 
7 (9.1%) 
2 (2.6%) 
7 (9.1%) 
2 (2.6%) 
3 (3.9%) 
9 (11.7%) 
4 (5.2%) 
3 (3.9%) 
9 (11.7%) 
5 (6.5%) 
2 (2.6%) 
53 (38.4%) 
14 (10.1%) 
15 (10.9%) 
38 (27.5%) 
7 (5.1%) 
9 (6.5%) 
7 (5.1%) 
31 (22.5%) 
11 (8.0%) 
28 (20.3%) 
10 (7.2%) 
8 (5.8%) 
23 (16.7%) 
11 (8.0%) 
9 (6.5%) 
24 (17.4%) 
8 (5.8%) 
8 (5.8%) 
21 (15.2%) 
13 (9.4%) 
6 (4.3%) 
51 (36.4%) 
17 (12.1%) 
12 (8.6%) 
23 (16.4%) 
8 (5.7%) 
4 (2.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
25 (17.9%) 
13 (9.3%) 
20 (14.3%) 
5 (3.6%) 
2 (1.4%) 
19 (13.6%) 
8 (5.7%) 
4 (2.9%) 
15 (10.7%) 
4 (2.9%) 
4 (2.9%) 
17 (12.1%) 
21 (15.0%) 
12 (8.6%) 
104 (37.4%) 
31 (11.2%) 
27 (9.7%) 
61 (21.9%) 
15 (5.4%) 
13 (4.7%) 
7 (2.5%) 
56 (20.1%) 
24 (8.6%) 
48 (17.3%) 
15 (5.4%) 
10 (3.6%) 
42 (15.1%) 
19 (6.8%) 
13 (4.7%) 
39 (14.0%) 
12 (4.3%) 
12 (4.3%) 
38 (13.7%) 
34 (12.2%) 
18 (6.5%) 
1 (1.3%) 
4 (2.9%) 
11 (7.9%) 
15 (5.4%) 
3 (3.9%) 
4 (5.2%) 
5 (6.5%) 
10 (7.2%) 
7 (5.1%) 
6 (4.3%) 
7 (5.0%) 
8 (5.7%) 
8 (5.7%) 
17 (6.1%) 
15 (5.4%) 
14 (5.0%) 
a Received golimumab prior to Week 16. 
b Received placebo prior to Week 16. 
c C0524T09. 
53/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
A total of 13 subjects died during the golimumab studies through the latest safety data cut-off (June 
2008); 12 of which with golimumab. In the original application, 9 deaths were reported, and 8 of those 
were  in  subjects  treated  with  golimumab  (3  related  to  infection,  one  malignancy,  one  cerebral 
hemorrhage, one suicidal event, one tramadol overdose, one climbing accident). There were also four 
cases  on  golimumab  reported  after  the  last  safety  cut-off  (two  from  C0524T06,  and  two  from 
C0524T05. Among these deaths, there were infections, malignancy, cardiac and hepatic events which 
were possibly related to golimumab treatment. In 3 cases accidents/suicide, were non-related. 
Serious adverse events 
At latter time points in the studies (last safety cut-off of the initial application, September 2007), the 
SAE event profiles were similar to the Week 16 and Week 24 period, although some, e.g. infections 
like TB or malignancies, were only observed after longer duration than 16 Weeks (see below). Some 
SAEs are presented in more detail below, for the respective group of events. 
Rheumatoid arthritis  
Through Week 16 in the Phase 3 RA studies, the proportions of subjects who had at least 1 SAE was 
4.7%, 5.5%, and 3.8% in the placebo, golimumab 50 mg, and golimumab 100 mg groups, respectively. 
Sepsis (sepsis and urosepsis) and pneumonia occurred more frequently in golimumab-treated subjects 
(1  (0.3%)  and  1  (0.3%)  on  golimumab  50  mg  and  4  (0.6%)  and  2  (0.3%)  on  golimumab  100  mg, 
respectively) compared with none on placebo. Through Week 24, despite shorter placebo follow-up, 
SAEs and pneumonia frequencies were similar for placebo and both golimumab doses, while sepsis 
occurred more frequently with golimumab (1 (0.3%) on golimumab 50 mg, 5 (0.7%) on golimumab 
100 mg) compared with none on placebo. 
In the C0524T05 study through Week 52, the MTX group (13.2%) had a higher proportion of SAEs 
compared with golimumab 100 mg (5.1%) or golimumab + MTX (9.5% golimumab 50  mg + MTX 
and 8.8% golimumab 100 mg + MTX). The most frequently occurring SAE was pneumonia (2 (1.3%) 
subjects on MTX, 1 (0.6%) on golimumab 100 mg and 2 (1.3%) on golimumab 100 mg + MTX). 
Psoriatic arthritis  
Both through Week 16 and 24, SAEs were reported less frequently in the combined golimumab group 
(1.7% and 2.0%) than for the placebo group (5.3% and 6.2%). The proportions of subjects with SAEs 
in the combined golimumab group were generally similar regardless of MTX use at baseline.  
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Through  Week  16,  the  proportion  of  subjects  reported  with  SAE  was  4.3%  in  the  combined 
golimumab group and 5.2% on placebo. Through Week 24, it was 5.4% in the combined golimumab 
group and 6.5% on placebo, and generally similar regardless of DMARDs use at baseline.  
Infections 
Across the indications, the pattern and types of infections through Week 24 were similar as through 
Week  16.  The  proportion  of  subjects  who  had  an  infection  requiring  antimicrobial  treatment  was 
increased  in  golimumab  treated  subjects  in  all  studies.  Generally,  the  most  frequently  occurring 
infection was upper respiratory tract infection.  
Serious, including opportunistic infections  
The  incidences  per  100  subject-years  of  follow-up  across  all  Phase  2b  and  3  studies  for  the  3  most 
common serious infections, sepsis, pneumonia, and cellulitis are shown in the Table below.  
54/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19  Frequency of infections in rheumatologic indications through the last safety cut off in 
the initial application (September 2007) 
All three rheumatologic indications (Phase 2b, 3 studies) 
Golimumab 50 mg 
Placebo  
0.36 (0.07, 1.05) 
0.32 (0.01, 1.77) 
2.16 (1.28, 3.41) 
2.86 (1.31, 5.43) 
2.16 (1.28, 3.41) 
1.59 (0.52, 3.71) 
Event 
event rate (CI) 
Sepsis * 
Pneumonina* 
Cellulitis * 
* The following MedDRA terms were used for sepsis: sepsis, urosepsis, and septic shock; pneumonia: pneumonia, 
bronchopneumonia, lobar pneumonia, Legionella pneumonia, streptococcal pneumonia, bacterial pneumonitis, and viral 
pneumonitis; cellulitis: cellulitis.  
Golimumab 100 mg  
0.99 (0.47, 1.82) 
1.48 (0.83, 2.45) 
1.98 (1.21, 3.05) 
Through the safety cut-off of the Phase 3 studies, the most common serious infection in golimumab-
treated  subjects  was  sepsis.  Other  types  of  serious  infections  observed  included  hepatomegaly  and 
toxic  hepatitis  classified  by  the  investigator  as  infections,  abscess,  acute  cholecystitis,  infectious 
mononucleosis, and otitis media chronic. Across all studies, one opportunistic infection was observed; 
a Legionella pneumonia in the Phase 2b RA study with golimumab 100 mg q4w. In the updated safety 
data base, one case of liver histoplasmosis was reported after Week 52 in study C0524T08.  
In the five Phase 3 studies through Week16, subjects on corticosteroids at baseline were more likely to 
have a serious infection (1.4% placebo, 2.1% golimumab 50 mg, 2.5% golimumab 100 mg) compared 
with subjects who did not receive corticosteroids at baseline (1.1% placebo, 0.3% golimumab 50 mg, 
1.1% golimumab 100 mg). 
Through  the  latest  safety  cut  off  (June  2008)  in  the  five  Phase  3  studies,  there  were  seven  cases  of 
tuberculosis  (TB)  reported.  Among  the  five  cases  in  the  original  application,  four  occurred  in  RA 
studies and one in the Asthma study. Among RA patients there were 2 subjects with pulmonary TB (1 
on 50 mg, 1 on 100 mg), 1 subject had bone TB (50 mg), and 1 tuberculous pleurisy (50 mg) and 1 
had lung/pleural and questionable ileal tuberculosis (100 mg). One TB case in the severe asthma study 
was  a  case  with  pleural  involvement  (100  mg).  According  to  the  inclusion  criteria  in  the  Phase  3 
studies, appropriate treatment of latent TB should have been initiated before or simultaneously with 
golimumab treatment in patients where such treatment was considered warranted. The Applicant has 
discussed  effects  on liver  function tests,  and in this discussion it  is  stated  that  319  (13.9%) subjects 
required  treatment  for  latent  TB  across  the  five  Phase  3  studies,  and  that  the  vast  majority  of  these 
subjects  received  isoniazid  (INH)  therapy.  Further  detail  on  anti-TB  treatment  undertaken  in  the 
clinical  studies  were  provided.  In  about  two  thirds  of  subjects  who  got  anti-TB  treatment,  it  was 
started  prior  to  golimumab  administration,  while  nearly  30%  started  treatment  simultaneously  with 
and 6% started treatment after golimumab treatment. So far, there has been no report of development 
of active TB during golimumab treatment in subjects given anti-TB treatment. Although these data are 
limited,  they  provide  some  reassurance  regarding  use  of  golimumab  in  subjects  who  are  treated  for 
suspected latent TB, and support the recommendations in the SPC that golimumab treatment may be 
considered if latent TB is treated. 
Close  monitoring,  and  adequate  information  are  of  great  importance  to  minimise  the  risk  for 
development  of  TB  in  association  with  use  of  an  anti-TNF  agent.  Adequate  measures  have  been 
addressed in the RMP, including an education programme. 
Possible Anaphylactic or Serum Sickness-like Reactions 
There were no anaphylactic or serum sickness-like reactions in golimumab-treated subjects across the 
Phase  3  studies,  while  one  case  of  serum  sickness  was  reported  in  the  severe  asthma  study.  Small 
proportions  of  subjects  had  nonspecific  AEs  of  rash,  urticaria,  and  hypersensitivity,  with  slightly 
higher  incidences  for  golimumab.  Thus,  the  occurrence  of  less  serious  allergic  reactions  cannot  be 
excluded, although the data do not indicate a clear increase of allergic reactions. 
Neoplasms/Malignancies 
The following Table shows the incidence of malignancies per 100 subject-years during the placebo-
controlled portions of all Phase 2b and 3 studies. 
55/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20  Incidence of malignancies per 100 subject-years during placebo-controlled portions of 
all Phase 2b and Phase 3 studies 
Event rate (CI) 
Lymphoma  
Nonmelanoma skin 
cancers 
Other malignancies 
All malignancies 
All three rheumatologic indications 
(phase 2b, 3 studies) 
Combined golimumab  
Placebo 
0.0 (0.0, 0.96) 
0.21 (0.03, 0.77) 
1.29 (0.35, 3.30)  0.75 (0.30, 1.54) 
Phase 2b severe asthma  
Placebo 
0.0 (0.0, 2.94) 
0.0 (0.0 2.94) 
Combined golimumab  
0.40 (0.01, 2.20) 
0.79 (0.10, 2.86) 
0.64 (0.08, 2.32)  0.43 (0.12, 1.09) 
1.93 (0.71, 4.21)  1.39 (0.74, 2.37) 
0.0 (0.0, 2.94) 
0.0 (0.0, 2.94) 
1.99 (0.64, 4.63) 
3.19 (1.38, 6.28 
The  uncertainties  related  to  long-term  use  of  TNF-alpha  inhibitors  and  the  potential  risk  for 
malignancy are well known concerns associated with use of these products. In the placebo controlled 
phases of the studies in rheumatologic indications, there was an increased incidence of lymphoma in 
golimumab treated patients, while the incidence of non-melanoma skin cancers and other malignancies 
was increased in the placebo groups. The observational time period (24 -52 weeks) is too short to draw 
definite conclusions.  
The findings in the 52 weeks study in severe, persistent asthma, with no malignancy among placebo 
subjects  (n=78,  0%),  and  8  cases  among  golimumab  treated  subjects  (n=  231,  3.5%)  raise  serious 
concern, although the different patient population and the use of higher doses than applied for in this 
application  are  acknowledged.  Following  analyses  of  these  findings  in  more  depth,  no  obvious 
explanation  has  been  established.  These  results  thus  remain  a  concern.  In  this  context,  the  findings 
with infliximab in an exploratory clinical study involving patients with moderate to severe COPD who 
all  had  a  history  of  heavy  smoking  should  be  noted.  In  this  study,  157  patients  were  treated  with 
infliximab at doses similar to those used in RA and Crohn’s disease. Nine of these patients developed 
malignancies.  The  median  duration  of  follow-up  was  0.8  years  (incidence  5.7%  [95%  CI  2.65%  - 
10.6%]. There was one reported malignancy amongst 77 control patients (median duration of follow-
up 0.8 years; incidence 1.3% [95% CI 0.03% - 7.0%]). The majority of the malignancies developed in 
the lung or head and neck. It is therefore of importance that caution should be exercised when using 
any TNF-antagonist in COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy due to 
heavy smoking. This information is provided in the SPC also for golimumab. It is currently unknown 
whether there is any association between these lung diseases and risk for malignancy with use of an 
anti-TNF agent. With respect to the rheumatologic populations, there is no such clear signal within the 
considerably  more  extensive  database.  As  for  all  anti-TNF  agents,  the  potential  risk  for  malignancy 
has to be  weighed against the potential  benefit  of  golimumab  therapy  in  the indications applied  for. 
The  risk  of  malignancies  has  been  addressed  in  the  SPC  and  relevant  risk  minimisation  and 
pharmacovigilance activities are part of the RMP. 
Autoimmune Disorders, Antinuclear Antibodies/Double-stranded DNA Antibodies 
For  golimumab,  and  across  the  five  Phase  3  studies  through  the  last  safety  cut-off  in  the  initial 
application (September 2007) there was one case of systemic lupus erythematosus, and one lupus-like 
syndrome. There were 5 cases of pustular psoriasis, and 2 reports of vasculitis. Overall, these types of 
AEs have been observed with other anti-TNF agents. The SPC contains relevant information. Psoriasis 
(new onset and pustular) has been included in the Table in section 4.8.  
The proportion of subjects who were negative for antinuclear antibodies (ANA) at baseline, but who 
had  a  newly  positive  ANA  test  result  during  the  Phase  3  studies,  was  increased  in  the  majority  of 
golimumab  groups  in  RA  studies,  compared  with  placebo,  but  not  in  the  PsA  or  AS  studies.  There 
were  few  cases  (3)  that  newly  tested  positive  for  anti-dsDNA  antibodies.  Relevant  information  has 
been added to the SPC. 
Hepatobiliary Adverse Events 
As of the last safety cut-off (September 2007) in the initial application for the combined RA, PsA, and 
AS studies, there were 6 (0.9%) subjects in the placebo group, 10 (0.8%) subjects on golimumab 50 
mg, and 26 (2.4%) subjects on golimumab 100 mg with a hepatobiliary AE. The type of hepatobiliary 
events remained similar to what was observed through Week 16 and 24. 
56/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory test results have shown some cases of patients experiencing >8xULN ALT increase. Most 
of  them  were  transitory  and  asymptomatic,  and  there  is  no  need  for  liver  function  test  (LFT) 
monitoring. Information on liver enzyme elevations has been added in the SPC, and hepatic events is 
addressed in the RMP. 
A  panel  of  4  external  hepatologists  reviewed  and  adjudicated  twelve  cases  (9  golimumab  and  3 
placebo) of hepatobiliary AEs in 11 subjects that were considered as clinically important. Out of these 
reports,  2  were  considered  probably  related  and  6  possibly  related  judged  by  the  expert  panel.  The 
numbers of significant events were low, where 3 patients discontinued golimumab permanently. Two 
patients made a temporary interruption indicating less severe symptoms. One fatal case of fulminant 
hepatitis has  been reported  with  golimumab  100  mg  in  a  24  year old female  patient  with  history  of 
LFT  abnormalities  and  Hashimoto’s  disease  (C0524T06-5805-60659).  Although  the  involvement  of 
golimumab is uncertain, this case is reflected in the SPC.  
Pulmonary Adverse Events of Interest 
Through the safety cut-off, for the five Phase 3 studies, there was one SAE of interstitial lung disease 
(golimumab + MTX), four subjects reporting pneumonitis (2 MTX, 2 golimumab + MTX), and one 
SAE of fibrosing alveolitis (golimumab + MTX). All these events occurred in RA trials. Associations 
to MTX cannot be excluded, given its known relation to pulmonary AEs. 
Cardiovascular safety 
In the AS study, there was a higher number of ‘cardiac disorders’ in the golimumab groups vs. placebo 
(0  placebo  vs.  6  (2.2%)  combined  golimumab  group;  2  angina  pectoris/unstable,  1  cardiac flutter, 1 
myocardial infarction, 2 palpitations, 1 tachycardia). In contrast, there was no increase in the RA or 
PsA  studies.  Further  analyses  of  these  data  suggested  that  most  of  these  subjects  had  pre-existing 
cardiac  disease,  and  a  role  of  golimumab  is  not  clearly  evident.  However,  arrhythmia  and  ischemic 
coronary artery disorders have been added to the SPC, section 4.8.  
In  all  Phase  3  studies,  except  study  CO524T08,  more  patients  had  vascular  disorders  when  treated 
with  golimumab  than  placebo.  This  difference  was  mostly  due  to  the  adverse  event  hypertension. 
Following further review of all hypertension cases reported in golimumab treated patients, it is agreed 
that  there  is  no  need  to  add  specific  recommendations  for  patients  with  known  hypertension,  or 
regarding  blood  pressure  monitoring  in  the  SPC.  Still,  hypertension  should  be  further  monitored  as 
outlined in RMP, and is mentioned in the SPC, section 4.8. 
Through  the  safety  cut-off  for  the  five  Phase  3  studies,  2  subjects  had  events  of  congestive  heart 
failure  (CHF)  with  golimumab.  In  the  golimumab  Phase  3  trials,  subjects  with  a  history  of  or 
concurrent  CHF  including  medically  controlled,  asymptomatic  CHF  were  excluded.  Given  the 
exclusion  criteria  there  is  a  lack  of  data  in  a  population  with  CHF.  This  aspect  together  with  the 
findings in the Phase 2 study with another anti-TNF agent, where treatment lead to worsening of CHF 
and a number of fatalities, clearly justify a contraindication of patients with moderate to severe heart 
failure  (NYHA  class  III/IV)  and  a  special  warning  for  use  of  golimumab  in  CHF.  Congestive  heart 
failure should be further monitored as outlined in the RMP, and is mentioned in the SPC. 
Psychiatric disorders 
Through  the  latest  safety  cut-off  (June  2008),  there  have  been  six  cases  of  suicide  attempt/ideation; 
one  of  those  committed  suicide.  Through  Week  24,  psychiatric  AE  occurred  in  4.2%  of  placebo 
subjects  and  5.3%  of  all  golimumab-treated  (most  commonly  insomnia,  depression,  and  anxiety). 
Although  there  is  no  strong  signal  for  an  increased  incidence  of  psychiatric  AEs  with  golimumab, 
information related to depression and insomnia has been added to the SPC and addressed in the RMP. 
Demyelinating Disorders 
In the Phase 3 studies, there was one SAE of demyelination, which is a known class effect for anti-
TNF agents. Relevant warnings have been added to the SPC. 
Injection-site reactions 
During the placebo controlled phases in the Phase 3 studies there was a higher incidence of injection 
57/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
site reactions associated with golimumab (3.4 - 6.7% across studies) than with placebo (2-2.7% across 
studies). In the majority of cases, reactions were mild or moderate. Up to Week 24, there was only one 
event of severe injection-site erythema. Across the Phase 3 studies, a higher proportion of injection-
site reactions were observed in subjects who were positive for antibodies to golimumab (7 subjects, 
12.3%)  compared  with  subjects  who  had  negative  (14  subjects,  7.1%)  or  ‘undetectable’  results  (88 
subjects,  8.2%).  Since  the  amount  of  data  is  rather  small,  only  limited  conclusions  can  be  drawn. 
There is  no  indication  of  severe/serious reactions linked  to  the  development  of  antibodies.  Relevant 
information has been included in the SPC, including information from 52 weeks of treatment. 
Immunological events 
The overall incidence of antibodies was 4.3% across all subjects treated in Phase 3 studies with similar 
rates  in  each  rheumatologic  indication.  The  antibody  incidence  was  similar  for  subjects  receiving 
50 mg +  MTX  (1.7%)  compared  with  subjects  receiving  100 mg +  MTX  (1.9%).  Treatment  with 
concomitant  MTX  resulted  in  a  lower  proportion  of  subjects  with  antibodies  to  golimumab  than 
subjects  receiving  golimumab  without  MTX  (approximately  2%  versus  7%,  respectively),  although 
this  was  only  evaluated  in  a  randomized  manner  for  subjects  receiving  golimumab  100  mg  in 
C0524T05 and C0524T06. Approximately half of the antibody responses observed in the Phase 2 RA 
study were neutralizing as measured by a cell-based functional assay. A summary of antibody data at 
Week  52  from  C0524T05,  C0524T06  and  C0524T08  show  a  similar  pattern  as  seen  at  Week  24, 
although the overall incidence was higher (5.2%). When looking at potential impact of antibodies on 
efficacy,  Week  52  data  from  C0524T05  indicated  that  efficacy  appeared  to  be  reduced  in  subjects 
positive for antibodies. However, a summary of data from C0524T05, C0524T06 and C0524T08, does 
not show a clear-cut relationship between presence of antibodies and reduced efficacy. With respect to 
safety, there was a slightly higher incidence of injection reactions in subjects positive for antibodies 
compared with those being negative or inconclusive. These findings are reflected in the SPC. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Across  the  three  indications,  there  were  no  unexpected  findings  in  haematology  or  chemistry 
evaluations, with the exception of some elevations in hepatic function parameters and some cases of 
significant  decreases  of  neutrophils  reported  one  or  more  times  in  patients  while  treated  with 
golimumab. Decreased neutrophiles has been added to the SPC, section 4.8. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The experience in pregnancy (9 pregnancies and 9 pregnancies in partners) is far too limited to draw 
any conclusions. The product information has been worded in line with other anti-TNF agents. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In  the  Psoriatic  arthritis  study,  effects  on  pneumococcal  vaccination  were  monitored.  There  was  no 
difference  in  the  vaccine  response  between  subjects  treated  with  placebo  or  golimumab,  while 
concomitant  use  of  MTX  was  associated  with  reduced  vaccine  response.  Relevant  information  has 
been included in the SPC, section 4.4. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  discontinuation  pattern  does  not  raise  concerns  related  to  either  efficacy  or  safety,  and  is  not 
considered to have had a negative impact on the interpretation of the studies’ results. The total number 
of subjects who discontinued is overall relatively low. 
•  Post marketing experience 
At the time of Marketing Authorization, no postmarketing experience was available for golimumab. 
58/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table 21: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimization 
Activities 
(Routine and Additional) 
(Routine and Additional) 
Identified risk 
Serious infections including 
opportunistic infections and TB 
(class effect) 
Routine PV activities 
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
•  Product information  
Additional PV activities 
•  TB follow-up questionnaire  
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies  
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  RABBIT 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study 
Demyelinating disorders (class 
effect) 
Routine PV activities  
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies 
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  RABBIT 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study 
Routine PV activities  
•  AE collection and single case 
59/70 
Hypertension 
Routine activities 
Guidance is provided in the 
Contraindications, Special 
Warnings and Precautions for 
Use, and Undesirable Effects 
sections of the SPC. 
Additional activities 
• 
Patient Alert Card 
•  Golimumab Educational 
Program  
Routine activities 
Demyelinating disorders are 
included in the Special 
Warnings and Precautions for 
Use and Undesirable Effects 
sections of the SPC.   
Additional activities 
None 
Routine Activities 
Hypertension is included in the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimization 
Activities 
(Routine and Additional) 
Undesirable Effects section of 
the SPC 
Additional Activities 
none 
Routine activities 
Guidance is provided in the 
Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use and 
Undesirable Effects sections of 
the SPC. 
Additional activities 
None 
Routine activities  
Elevations in transaminases are 
described in the Undesirable 
Effects section of the SPC.  
Guidance is also provided in the 
Posology and method of 
administration and the Special 
Warnings and Precautions for 
Use sections of the SPC. 
Additional activities 
None 
(Routine and Additional) 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies 
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study  
Routine PV activities 
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
•  Product information 
Additional PV activities  
•  Lymphoma follow-up 
questionnaire  
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies 
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  RABBIT 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study 
Routine PV activities  
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
Potential risks 
Malignancy 
Serious hepatotoxicity 
detection 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies 
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  RABBIT 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study 
60/70 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimization 
Activities 
Exposure during pregnancy 
(Routine and Additional) 
(Routine and Additional) 
Routine PV activities  
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
Routine activities 
Guidance is provided in 
Section 4.6, Pregnancy and 
Lactation, of the SPC. 
Additional activities  
None 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies 
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  Pregnancy Research Initiative 
•  RABBIT 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
HBV reactivation (class effect) 
Study 
Routine PV activities 
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies  
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  RABBIT 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study 
Routine activities 
A statement regarding severe 
infections is included in the 
Contraindications section of the 
SPC; HBV reactivation is 
included in the Special 
Warnings and Precautions for 
Use and Undesirable Effects 
sections of the SPC. 
Additional activities 
• 
• 
Patient Alert Card 
Golimumab Educational 
Program  
CHF (class effect) 
Routine PV activities 
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
Routine activities  
CHF is described in the 
Contraindications, Special 
Warnings and Precautions for 
Use and Undesirable Effects 
sections of the SPC. 
Additional activities  
• 
• 
Patient Alert Card 
Golimumab Educational 
Program 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies  
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  RABBIT 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study 
Serious systemic hypersensitivity  Routine PV activities  
Routine activities 
61/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimization 
Activities 
(anaphylaxis and serum sickness; 
class effect) 
Autoimmune processes  
(class effect) 
Maladministration/administration 
error 
(Routine and Additional) 
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies 
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  RABBIT 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study 
Routine PV activities  
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies 
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  RABBIT 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study 
Routine PV activities  
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
•  Product information 
Serious depression including 
suicidality 
Routine PV activities  
•  AE collection and single case 
processing 
•  Aggregate reports:  Periodic 
Safety reporting 
•  Surveillance and signal 
detection 
62/70 
(Routine and Additional) 
None 
Additional activities 
• 
Golimumab Educational 
Program 
Routine activities 
Autoimmune processes are 
described in the Special 
Warnings and Precautions for 
Use and Undesirable effects 
sections of the SPC. 
Additional activities 
None 
Routine activities 
Instructions for administration 
are provided in the Posology and 
method of administration section 
of the SPC and detailed 
instructions for patients on 
administration techniques are 
provided in the Package Leaflet 
of the SPC. 
Additional activities 
•  Golimumab Educational 
Program 
Routine Activities 
Depression is included in the 
Undesirable Effects section of 
the SPC 
Additional Activities 
none 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimization 
Activities 
(Routine and Additional) 
(Routine and Additional) 
•  Product information 
Additional clinical trial data 
•  Long-term extensions of Phase 
3 RA, PsA, and AS studies 
•  Other Phase 2/3 studies  
Registry and Epidemiology 
studies 
•  Swedish Database Initiative 
• 
i3 Drug Safety Epidemiology 
Study  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: see as detailed in the Annex "Conditions or Restrictions with regard to the Safe and Effective 
Use of the Medicinal Product to be implemented by the Member States". 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance  are  adequately 
described,  controlled  and  validated.  The  drug  substance  is  well  characterised  with  regard  to  its 
physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics,  using  state-of  the-art  methods,  and  appropriate 
specifications are set. The manufacturing process of the drug product has been satisfactorily described 
and  validated.  The  quality  of  the  drug  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test  methods  and 
specifications.  Viral  safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents  including  TSE  have 
been  sufficiently  assured.  Except  for  a  number  of  points,  which  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-
approval follow-up measures, the overall Quality of Simponi is considered acceptable. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The non-clinical testing strategy to support development of golimumab was designed and conducted in 
accordance with the ICH S6. Due to species specificity of golimumab, the cynomolgus monkey was 
chosen as the most relevant non-clinical species for pharmacology and toxicology studies. In addition, 
studies in mice using an analogous anti-mouse TNFα monoclonal antibody, cV1q, were provided as 
supporting data. 
Being  a  monoclonal  antibody,  no  genotoxicity  or  carcinogenicity  studies  or  environmental  risk 
assessment  have  been  performed  with  golimumab.  This  is  according  to  current  guidelines  for 
biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (ICH S6) and was considered acceptable. 
The  non-clinical  data  presented  reveal  no  special  hazard  for  humans.  In  a  fertility  and  general 
reproductive  function  study  in  mouse,  using  an  analogous  antibody  that  selectively  inhibits  the 
functional activity of mouse TNFα, the number of pregnant mice was reduced. It is not known whether 
this  finding  was  due  to  effects  on  the  males  and/or  the  females.  In  a  developmental  toxicity  study 
conducted  in  mice  following  administration  of  the  same  analogous  antibody,  and  in  cynomolgus 
monkeys  using  golimumab,  there  was  no  indication  of  maternal  toxicity,  embryotoxicity  or 
teratogenicity. This information is reflected in the SPC. 
63/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) 
In  RA  a  dose-finding  study  and  three  Phase  3  studies  were  performed.  The  dose-finding  study 
concluded that two doses were appropriate to include in the following development program in RA. 
The chosen doses were 50 mg and 100 mg every fourth week (q4w). The rationale for this choice is 
not  fully  obvious,  and  a  lowest  effective  dose  has  not  been  defined.  A  lower  dose  than  what  was 
included in the dose-finding study might have been considered. Although a consistently lower efficacy 
with  monotherapy  was  found  in  the  three  pivotal  RA  studies,  there  is  insufficient  evidence  for  the 
lowest effective dose. Still, it is considered that there is sufficient support for the proposed posology  
Among  the  three  RA  studies,  there  was  one  study  in  active  RA  despite  methotrexate  (MTX) 
(C0524T06)  with  a  similar  population  as  in  the  pivotal  trials  for  all  previously  approved  anti-TNFs 
agents. The second study (C0524T05) included patients with active RA but naïve to MTX; MTX was 
introduced  at  baseline.  The  third  study  (C0524T11)  included  patients  who  had  been  treated  with  at 
least one dose of anti-TNF before inclusion. The submitted documentation presented study data up to 
24 weeks duration of the studies. Fifty-two weeks x-ray data from Study T06 were not presented in 
this application. 
In  study  C0524T06  444  RA  patients  with  active  disease  despite  MTX  were  randomised  to  four 
treatment groups. MTX was combined with 50 mg or 100 mg golimumab or with placebo and in one 
group MTX was discontinued. The study population was similar to previous approvals, with respect to 
baseline disease activity and characteristics. The primary efficacy endpoint ACR20 (20% decrease in 
activity) showed significant results in the two groups of golimumab 50 mg and 100mg in combination 
with  MTX.  However,  monotherapy  with  golimumab  100  mg  was  not  significantly  different  from 
placebo+MTX. 
In  study  T05,  637  MTX-naïve  patients  were  randomised  to  four  treatment  groups.  MTX  was 
introduced at baseline in three of the groups together with golimumab 50mg and 100 mg and placebo. 
In the fourth group monotherapy with golimumab + placebo was introduced. ACR50 (50% decrease in 
activity)  was  chosen  as  the  primary  endpoint,  which  is  a  more  strict  criterion  than  in  previous  anti-
TNF  approvals.  ACR50  did  not  reach  statistical  significant  difference  towards  placebo.  However, 
ACR20 reached significantly different effect versus placebo. 
Study C0524T11 included patients who had been treated with at least one dose of an anti-TNF prior to 
study participation. The study design did not define a treatment refractory population, as reasons for 
discontinuing  the  anti-TNF  agent  were  not  defined  strictly.  This  three-arm  study,  where  MTX  or 
sulphasalazine or hydroxychloroquine were accepted as concomitant medications, showed significant 
results for the primary endpoint, ACR20 at Week 14 for golimumab 50 and 100 mg. 
In all three studies, there was no improved efficacy with 100 mg compared with 50 mg. Efficacy with 
combination therapy with MTX was consistently better than monotherapy. 
Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA) 
One Phase 3 study in subjects with PsA has been submitted, where 50 and 100 mg golimumab given 
every  4  weeks  was  compared  to  placebo.  The  primary  efficacy  analyses  were  undertaken  after  16 
weeks. Thereafter, subjects who did not meet defined response were eligible to early escape. 
The population included had moderate to severe PsA activity. The majority of subjects had taken one 
or  more  DMARDS  for  PsA  (75-80%  in  all  groups),  had  prior  exposure  to  topical  treatments  for 
psoriasis,  but  not  to  systemic  psoriasis  medications. About  half  of  the subjects were taking  MTX  at 
baseline at a median dose of 15 mg/week. Overall, this population is considered relevant for studying 
effects  on  PsA  of  an  anti-TNF  agent.  The  majority  of  subjects  had  ≥  3%  BSA  involvement  with 
psoriasis;  the  median  BSA  in  these  subjects  was  8-10%  (range  3-99).  This  corresponds  to  mild 
psoriasis, which is reflected in the SPC. 
The study design, selected endpoints and analyses undertaken are considered relevant for the intended 
aim of the study. Overall, the discontinuation pattern does not raise concern, and is not considered to 
64/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have a negative impact on the study interpretation. It was shown that both dose levels of golimumab 
statistically significantly improved signs and symptoms after 16 weeks, based on number of ACR20 
responders. Several sensitivity analyses showed that the results were robust, and secondary endpoints 
supported this finding. Overall, there is convincing evidence of efficacy in the short term. 
Subgroup  analyses  were  possible  to  undertake  for  two  subtypes  of  PsA,  asymmetrical  and 
polyarticular disease. Statistically significant efficacy (ACR20) was shown in both of these subgroups. 
Information on subgroups in the study is described in the SPC. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
One Phase 3 study in subjects with AS has been submitted, where 50 and 100 mg golimumab q4w was 
compared  to  placebo.  The  primary  efficacy  analyses  were  undertaken  after  16  weeks.  Thereafter, 
subjects who did not meet defined response criteria were eligible to early escape. 
Based on various parameters addressing disease activity, it can be concluded that subjects in all groups 
had  a  moderately  high  level  of  pain  and  inflammation.  At  baseline,  more  than  99%  of  the  subjects 
were  receiving  NSAIDs,  and  the  proportions  of  subjects  using  other  medications  for  AS  were 
generally similar across all groups. Approximately two thirds of subjects had a screening CRP level of 
≤ 1.5 mg/dl, and the median CRP level at baseline for the combined golimumab group was 1.0 mg/dl. 
Overall, this population is considered relevant for studying effects on AS of an anti-TNF agent.  
Overall, the discontinuation pattern does not raise concern, and is not considered to have a negative 
impact  on  the  study  interpretation.  Golimumab,  combined  groups,  resulted  in  significantly  greater 
number of subjects achieving an ASAS 20 response Week 14. The response was numerically greater 
for each golimumab dose group in the higher CRP stratum compared with the lower. All sensitivity 
analyses  supported  the  results  of  the  primary  endpoint  analysis.  Further  support  of  efficacy  was 
obtained by a number of secondary endpoint analyses. However, there was no significant effect on the 
BASMI  score,  addressing  mobility,  even  if  some  subscores  as  well  as  chest  expansion  were 
statistically  significantly 
is 
improvement  in  spinal  mobility,  the  treatment  period  may  be  too  short  to  results  in  significant 
improvement of these parameters. Overall, efficacy in the short term has been demonstrated. 
improved.  Although  one  expectation  with  successful 
treatment 
However, long-term data are lacking, which is a major shortcoming. As outlined in the draft guideline 
(CHMP/EWP/4891/03), although efficacy may be demonstrated in a 12-24 weeks trial, maintenance 
of the effect in longer trials (e.g. 1 year) should be demonstrated. 
The majority of subjects tested positive for the HLA-B27 antigen. Thus, although subgroup analyses 
suggested  efficacy  also  in  subjects  negative  for  HLA-B27  antigen,  experience  in  this  subgroup  is 
limited. 
Safety 
In total 2154 subjects have been exposed to golimumab, approximately half at each dose level of 50 
and 100 mg, across the three indications. The numbers of subjects exposed for at least 6 months in the 
different indications are 1180 (RA), 472 (PsA), 325 (AS), and for at least 12 months were 512 (RA); 
254  (PsA)  and  160  (AS).  These  numbers  are  sufficient  to  meet  ICH  recommendations,  for  all 
indications. During the review process, additional safety data were submitted, with a data cut-off of 
June 2008. 
As expected, the adverse event profile, across the three populations, is similar to that for other anti-
TNF  agents.  Infections  and  infestations,  including  serious  cases  were  the  most  common  AE/SAE 
reported for golimumab across all indications. At latter time points in the studies (week 24, or the last 
safety cut-off), the AE event profiles were generally similar to the week 16 period, although some e.g. 
infections like TB, or malignancies were only observed after longer duration than 16 weeks.  
65/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  total  of  13  subjects  died  during  the  golimumab  studies  through  the  latest  safety  data  cut-off;  of 
which  12  with  golimumab.  Among  those,  9  were  judged  as  possibly  related,  and  due  to  infection, 
cardiac or hepatic events.  
Through the safety cut-off of the phase 3 studies, the most common serious infection in golimumab-
treated  subjects  was  sepsis.  Other  types  of  serious  infections  observed  included  hepatomegaly  and 
toxic  hepatitis  classified  by  the  investigator  as  infections,  abscess,  acute  cholecystitis,  infectious 
mononucleosis, and otitis media chronic. Across all studies, one opportunistic infection was observed. 
In  the  updated  safety  data  base,  one  case  of  liver  histoplasmosis  was  reported  after  W52  in  study 
C0524T08. Through the latest safety cut off (June 2008) in the five phase 3 studies, there were seven 
cases of TB reported. The SPC contains relevant warnings and precautions related to infections.  
The  uncertainties  related  to  long-term  use  of  TNF-alpha  inhibitors  and  the  potential  risk  for 
malignancy are well known concerns associated with use of anti-TNF agents. In the placebo controlled 
phases of the studies in rheumatologic indications, there was an increased incidence of lymphoma in 
golimumab  treated  patients.  Through  the  latest  cut-off,  there  was  increased  numbers  of  neoplasms 
such  as  skin  cancer,  squamous  cell  carcinoma  and  melanocytic  naevus,  which  is  included  as  an 
uncommon adverse reaction in the PI. Relevant risk minimisation and pharmacovigilance activates are 
also to be undertaken post marketing. 
In the AS study only, there was a higher number of ‘cardiac disorders’ in the golimumab groups vs. 
placebo (0 placebo vs. 6 (2.2%) combined golimumab group. Although most of these subjects had pre-
existing cardiac disease, the role of golimumab is not clearly evident. Still, cardiac disorders should be 
further  monitored.  In  all  phase  III  studies,  except  C0524T08,  more  patients  had  vascular  disorders 
when treated with golimumab than placebo. This difference was mostly due to the hypertension. Two 
subjects had congestive heart failure (CHF) with golimumab. Cardiovascular safety is addressed in the 
SPC. 
In  the  RA  and  AS  studies  through  Week  16,  ALT  elevations  ≥ 5  x  ULN  were  seen  in  more 
golimumab-treated patients (0.4% to 0.9%) than controls (0.0%). This trend was not observed in the 
PsA population. Through 1 year of follow-up, the incidence of ALT elevations ≥5 x ULN was similar 
in both golimumab-treated and control patients in all Phase III studies. One patient with pre-existing 
liver  abnormalities  and  confounding  medication  treated  with  golimumab  developed  non-infectious 
fatal hepatitis with jaundice. The role of golimumab as a contributing or aggravation factor cannot be 
excluded.  Relevant wording regarding liver safety has been included in the SPC.  
There were no anaphylactic or serum sickness-like reactions in golimumab-treated subjects across the 
phase  3  studies,  while  one  case  of  serum  sickness  was  reported  in  the  severe  asthma  study.  Small 
proportions  of  subjects  had  nonspecific  AEs  of  rash,  urticaria,  and  hypersensitivity,  with  slightly 
higher  incidences  for  golimumab.  Thus,  the  occurrence  of  less  serious  allergic  reactions  cannot  be 
excluded, although the data do not indicate a clear increase of allergic reactions.   
During  the  placebo-controlled  phases,  psychiatric  AE  occurred  in  3.6%  patients  on  placebo,  and  in 
3.4%  for  all  golimumab  treated.  Through  Week  24,  psychiatric  AE  occurred  in  4.2%  of  placebo 
subjects  and  5.3%  of  all  golimumab-treated  (most  commonly  insomnia,  depression,  and  anxiety). 
Although  there  is  no  strong  signal  for  an  increased  incidence  of  psychiatric  AEs  with  golimumab, 
information is added to the PI, and addressed in the RMP.  
In the phase 3 studies, there was one SAE of demyelination, which is a known class effect for anti-
TNF agents. The SPC contains relevant information. 
Through 1 year of follow up, 4.0% of golimumab-treated patients and 2.6% of control patients were 
newly ANA-positive (at titers of 1:160 or greater). The frequency of anti-dsDNA antibodies at 1 year 
of  follow  up  in  patients  anti-dsDNA  negative  at  baseline  was  uncommon.  There  was  one  case  of 
systemic lupus erythematosus, and one lupus-like syndrome. There were 5 cases of pustular psoriasis, 
and 2 reports of vasculitis.  
66/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the profile of golimumab is similar to that of other TNF-alpha blockers and the SPC is in line 
with  those  of  other  anti-TNF  agents  with  respect  to  sections  4.4  and  4.8.  Furthermore,  the  RMP 
addresses the safety concerns noted above. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
A user consultation was conducted and judged acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits: 
Rheumatoid Arthritis  
Studies  C0524T06  and  C0524T11,  where  golimumab  was  given  as  add-on  to  MTX,  had  the  same 
study  design  (early  escape  at Week  16) and the same  primary  endpoint  (ACR 20  response  at  Week 
14). Study populations were also similar, although in C0524T11, subjects should have been exposed to 
at  least  one  dose  of  an  anti-TNF  agent.  Controlled  data  of  up  to  24  weeks  duration  were  submitted 
originally,  and  based  on  those  data,  it  can  be  concluded  that  statistically  significant  and  clinically 
relevant  efficacy  has  been  shown.  Although  only  uncontrolled  data  from  week  24  to  52  were 
submitted from C0524T06 which are difficult to interpret due to a number of treatment changes in all 
groups, and no new data was available from C0524T11, it can be concluded that the Week 24 data are 
sufficiently convincing to support approval, and there is no indication of unexpected effects through 
Week 52. The lack of x-ray data are considered acceptable for a second line indication, since there is 
sufficient  indirect  evidence  for  no  deleterious  effects  on  the  joints  (e.g.  data  from  other  anti-TNFα 
agents, support for a relationship between CRP, tender and swollen joints and radiologic progression). 
Thus, it can be concluded that efficacy has been demonstrated to support indications in RA subjects 
with  inadequate  response  to  previous  DMARDs.  However,  it  is  not  accepted  to  mention  in  the 
indication  that  golimumab  can  be  used  in  subjects  previously  treated  with  one  or  more  TNF 
inhibitor(s). 
In study C0524T05, golimumab, as monotherapy or combination with MTX, was tested against MTX 
in treatment naïve RA patients. The original application contained 24 weeks data, and subsequently, 
controlled  data  on  signs  and  symptoms  up  to  Week  52  were  submitted.  InC0524T05,  statistical 
significance was not met for the primary endpoint, ACR50 at Week 24. However, the ACR20 results 
were statistically significant and the p-value for ACR50 response was at borderline significance. Other 
secondary  measures  were  in  favour  of  combination  therapy  with  golimumab  50  mg  +  MTX  once  a 
month.  Controlled  data  through  Week  52  from  study  C0524T05  on  signs  and  symptoms  have  also 
been  submitted.  Analyses  for  ACR50  and  ACR20  resulted  in  statistically  significantly  differences 
between  golimumab  combined  and  MTX.  However,  the  50  mg+  MTX  dose  was  not  statistically 
different from MTX, and the observed differences were small (ACR50 6.5%; p=0.235; ACR20 7.8%, 
p=0.157). It is acknowledged that the observed differences appear to be almost of the same magnitude 
as seen for the other anti-TNF agents in this population, which have an indication in severe, active and 
progressive RA for subjects treatment naïve to MTX. However, in contrast to these products for which 
52  and/or  104  weeks  x-ray  data  were  available  that  showed  a  beneficial  effect  on  joint  damage  in 
support  of  such  indication,  no  data  on  structural  damage  is  available  for  golimumab.  Furthermore, 
these  products  also  had  2  years  x-ray  data  in  the  second  line  population  showing  a  similar  pattern. 
Thus, approval of treatment naïve RA is not accepted based on available data. 
Taken  together,  golimumab  in  combination  with  MTX,  showed  clinically  relevant  efficacy  on  signs 
and  symptoms  in  relevant  patient  populations.  Efficacy  with  golimumab  100  mg  monotherapy  is 
surprisingly  low  and  only  combination  therapy  is  reflected  in  the  indication.  X-ray  data  are  still 
67/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lacking, which precludes approval for use in treatment naïve patients. Overall, the effect size appears 
comparable to that of other anti-TNF agents, although head-to head comparisons are lacking which is 
a shortcoming. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
In the PsA study, it was shown that both dose levels of golimumab statistically significantly improved 
signs and symptoms after 16 weeks, based on number of ACR20 responders (9%, 51% and 45% in the 
placebo,  50  and  100  mg  groups,  respectively).  Several  sensitivity  analyses  showed  that  the  results 
were  robust,  and  secondary  endpoints  supported  this  finding.  The  effect  size  appears  comparable  to 
that  of  other  anti-TNF  agents.  Overall,  there  is  convincing  evidence  of  efficacy  in  the  short  term. 
During the review process, the applicant has submitted uncontrolled data up to Week 52. Due to the 
different  changes  of  treatments  for  a  number  of  patients  in  all  groups  (early  escape  or  cross  over), 
these  are  difficult  to  interpret.  However,  it  is  considered  that  the  Week  24  data  are  sufficiently 
convincing, and there is no indication of unexpected effects by Week 52. The lack of x-ray data are 
considered acceptable for this indication since there is sufficient indirect evidence for no deleterious 
effects on the joints. Thus, efficacy has been demonstrated to support indications in PsA subjects with 
inadequate response to previous DMARDs.  
Subgroup  analyses  were  possible  to  undertake  for  two  subtypes  of  PsA,  asymmetrical  and 
polyarticular disease. Statistically significant efficacy (ACR20) was shown in both of these subgroups. 
Information on subgroups in the study is described in the SPC. 
The results point to a slightly better effect with the combination golimumab + MTX compared with 
monotherapy, and antibodies were only identified in subjects in the non-MTX stratum during the 24 
weeks period of the study. However, differences are not considered of significant clinical relevance, 
and comparable with results seen for other anti-TNFs. Thus, a monotherapy option is accepted. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Golimumab, combined groups, resulted in significantly greater number of subjects achieving an ASAS 
20 response at Week 14. The response was numerically greater for each golimumab dose group in the 
higher  CRP  stratum  compared  with  the  lower.  All  sensitivity  analyses  supported  the  results  of  the 
primary  endpoint  analysis.  Further  support  of  efficacy  was  obtained  by  a  number  of  secondary 
endpoint analyses. Overall, efficacy in the short term has been demonstrated for this indication. Long-
term  data  from  the  other  indications  are  sufficiently  supportive  to  recommend  approval  of  this 
indication. 
Other DMARDs were allowed as concomitant therapy in the AS study, although 68% of subjects did 
not  have  such  treatment.  An  analysis  submitted  by  the  applicant  did  not  show  any  difference  in 
response among subjects with or without DMARD. Thus, monotherapy is agreed. 
The  vast  majority  of  subjects  tested  positive  for  the  HLA-B27  antigen.  Thus,  although  subgroup 
analyses  suggested  efficacy  also  in  subjects  negative  for  HLA-B27  antigen,  experience  in  this 
subgroup is limited. 
Dose adjustment across indications 
In  all  three  RA  studies,  there  was  no  improved  efficacy  with  100  mg  golimumab  compared  with 
50 mg,  with  the  possible  exception  of  patients  with  high  body  weight.  In  the  AS  and  PsA  studies, 
nearly  50%  of  subjects  who  entered  early  escape  from  the  placebo  group  and  received  golimumab 
50 mg,  achieved  ACR20/ASAS20  after  2  doses,  while  subjects  who  entered  early  escape  from  the 
golimumab 50 mg group and received 100 mg did not show substantial improvement. Thus, there is 
little support for increasing the dose in a subject who does not respond to golimumab within a 14-16 
weeks  period.  However,  for  subjects  with  high  body  weight,  an  option  for  a  dose  increase  is 
warranted, and has been addressed in the SPC. 
68/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risks: 
(cid:131) Demonstrated risks 
The safety profile of golimumab appears fully in line with the well known safety profile of anti-TNF 
agents,  although  long-term  safety  data  are  currently  still  rather  limited.  Infections  including  serious 
cases were the most common adverse event/serious adverse event, and more subjects on golimumab 
required  antibiotic  treatment  than  those  on  placebo  across  indications.  There  also  appeared  to  be  a 
higher  incidence  of  serious  infections  among  subjects  who  received  oral  corticosteroids  at  baseline 
together  with  golimumab,  compared  with  subjects  not  receiving  such  baseline  treatment.  There  was 
also an apparent dose related increase in the incidence of AEs, including serious infections with the 
golimumab  +  MTX  combinations.  Among  serious  infections,  sepsis  was  more  frequently  observed 
following golimumab treatment than placebo. So far, few opportunistic infections have been reported, 
and  seven  TB  cases  have  also  been  reported.  There  was  a  relatively  high  proportion  of  patients 
(approx. 14%) who received prophylactic TB treatment. Although data are limited, none of those have 
so far developed TB. 
(cid:131) Potential risks 
The  uncertainties  related  to  long-term  use  of  TNF-alpha  inhibitors  and  the  potential  risk  for 
malignancy are well known concerns associated with the use of TNF-alpha inhibitors. In the placebo 
controlled  phases  of  the  rheumatologic  studies,  there  was  an  increased  incidence  of  lymphoma  in 
golimumab treated patients, while the incidence of non-melanoma skin cancers and other malignancies 
was increased in the placebo groups. Additional 52 weeks data have been submitted, showing a similar 
picture, but the observational time period is still too short to draw definite conclusions. 
The findings in the 52 weeks study in severe asthma (no malignancy among placebo subjects (n=78), 
and  8  cases  among  231  golimumab  treated  subjects)  raise  serious  concern,  although  the  different 
patient population and the use of higher doses than applied for are acknowledged. The applicant has 
not been able to establish any obvious explanation for this finding. These results remain a concern and 
will be further explored within the post-marketing follow-up. The potential risk for malignancy has to 
be  weighed  against the  potential  benefit  of  golimumab  therapy  in the indications  applied for.  Long-
term follow up of patients, as well as via registries is of importance. 
Across the Phase 3 studies, more patients had vascular disorders when treated with golimumab than 
placebo. This difference was mostly due to the adverse event hypertension. There was no clear signal 
for other cardiac disorders. Hypertension, CHF, arrhythmia and ischemic coronary artery disorders are 
included in the SPC and CHF and hypertension are addressed in the RMP. 
Injections reactions were more frequent in golimumab studies, and there was 1 serious injection site 
reaction,  injection  site  erythema  which  lead  to  discontinuation  of  study  agent  and  1  non  seroius 
injection site reactions (injection-site erythema) leading to discontinuation. Based on limited data from 
all Phase 3 studies, a higher proportion of injection-site reactions were observed in subjects who were 
positive for antibodies to golimumab compared with subjects who were negative or had undetectable 
antibodies. There is no indication of severe/serious reactions linked to development of antibodies. In 
addition,  so  far,  there  are  no  concerns  identified  with  respect  to  anaphylactic  reactions  and  serum 
sickness.  
Regarding  autoimmune  disorders  including  antinuclear  antibodies/double-stranded  DNA  antibodies, 
pulmonary  adverse  events,  CHF,  demyelinating  disorders  or  laboratory  measurements,  there  are  no 
findings  that  raise  new  concerns  regarding  the  safety  profile  of  an  anti-TNF  agent.  Hepatobiliary 
adverse events have been analysed in depth by the applicant. Overall, there is no worrying signal in 
the currently available material. Still, all relevant information is contained in the SPC. 
The  RMP  addresses  these  risks  adequately,  and  several  risk  minimisation  activities  have  been 
implemented. Further long-term data will be provided when available. Protocols for registry follow up 
as well as a claims database study in the US have been submitted, and are considered to sufficiently 
cover long-term follow up post marketing. 
69/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance: 
Overall,  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  efficacy  on  signs  and  symptoms  has  been 
shown  across  the  three  indications  applied  for.  With  support  from  newly  submitted  controlled  data 
from C0524T05, updated safety data, as well as indirect evidence with respect to potential effects on 
joints, second line indications in RA, PsA and AS can be agreed. 
For treatment naïve RA, 52 weeks data on signs and symptoms have been submitted, which show a 
small additional benefit (6-8%) by adding 50 mg golimumab to MTX. Considering the risks with anti-
TNF  agents,  it  is  not  considered  justified  to  add  golimumab  to  MTX  in  the  treatment  of  treatment 
naïve RA without evidence of beneficial effects on structural damage.  Thus, the lack of x-ray data for 
golimumab  is  still  considered  a  major  shortcoming,  particularly  taking  the  somewhat  unconvincing 
data for signs and symptoms with the dose applied for, both at week 24 and week 52, into account.  
The  safety  profile  is  as  expected  for  an  anti-TNF  agent,  although  long-term  data  are  lacking. 
Infections,  and  risk  for  malignancy  are  the  main  concerns  in  general.  Specifically,  the  finding  of 
malignancy in the severe asthma study is disturbing, but the considerably larger safety database from 
the rheumatological indications is sufficiently reassuring, and this finding is not considered to question 
the approvability of the rheumatologic indications. Nevertheless, adequate information in the product 
information and follow up are necessary to support a positive benefit /risk balance.   
A shortcoming with the dossier is the lack of directly comparative data with other anti-TNF agents. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
(cid:131)  the  following  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required:  see  as  detailed  in  the 
Annex "Conditions or Restrictions with regard to the Safe and Effective Use of the Medicinal 
Product to be implemented by the Member States" 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus decision that the risk-benefit balance of Simponi in the following indication: 
“Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
Simponi,  in  combination  with  methotrexate  (MTX),  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to 
severe,  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy including MTX has been inadequate.  
Simponi has also been shown to improve physical function in this patient population.  
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
Simponi, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive 
psoriatic  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  previous  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic 
drug  (DMARD)  therapy  has  been  inadequate.  Simponi  has  also  been  shown  to  improve  physical 
function in this patient population. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Simponi is indicated for the treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis in adult patients who 
have responded inadequately to conventional therapy.” 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
70/70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
