SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Simulect. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 October 2004. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1.  Introduction 
Simulect  contains  the  active  substance  basiliximab,  which  is  a  chimeric  murine/human  monoclonal 
antibody  (MAb).  Basiliximab  reacts  with  the  CD25  antigen  on  T-cells,  inhibiting  the  binding  of 
interleukin-2  (IL-2)  to  its  receptor  (IL-2R),  and  functions  as  an  immunosuppressive  agent.  
In vitro tests with human tissues indicate that basiliximab binds only to activated T-lymphocytes and 
to monocytes/macrophages.  
Simulect is a sterile freeze-dried powder for intravenous infusion or injection after reconstitution with 
the  solvent,  water  for  injection.  Simulect  is  marketed  in  the  20  mg  strength.  Post-Authorisation,  
a second strength of 10 mg is authorised. 
In adult patients, peak basiliximab serum concentration following a 20-30 minute infusion of 20 mg 
Simulect  is  7.1  ±  5.1  mg/ml.  The  elimination  half-life  is  7.2  ±  3.2  days,  and  total  body  clearance  
is 41 ± 19 ml/hr. In infants and children (age 1–11 years, n=25), distribution volume and clearance are 
reduced  by  about  50 %  compared  to  adult  renal  transplantation  patients  whereas  disposition  in 
adolescents was similar to that in adult patients. 
The  applied  indication  of  Simulect  was  first  for  the  prophylaxis  of  acute  organ  rejection  in de  novo 
allogeneic renal transplantation and to be used concomitantly with cyclosporin for microemulsion- and 
corticosteroid-based  immunosuppression  in  patients  with  panel  reactive  antibodies  less  than  80%.  
In the meantime the indication has been extended for paediatric patients and for the prophylaxis in the 
triple  maintenance  immunosuppressive  regimen  containing  ciclosporin  for  microemulsion  -  and 
corticosteroids, and either azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil. 
The proposed standard total dose in adults is 40 mg, given in two doses of 20 mg each. The first dose 
should  be  given  within  2  hours  prior  to  transplantation  surgery.  The  second  dose  should  be  given  
4  days  after  transplantation.  Elderly  patients  do  not  require  a  different  dosage  from  younger  adult 
patients.  
In  paediatric  patients  weighing  less  than  35 kg,  the  recommended  total  dose  is  20 mg,  given  in  two 
doses  of  10 mg  each.  In  paediatric  patients  weighing  35 kg  or  more,  the  recommended  dose  is  the 
adult dose, i.e. a total dose of 40 mg, given in two doses of 20 mg each. The first dose should be given 
within  2 hours  prior  to  transplantation  surgery.  The  second  dose  should  be  given  4 days  after 
transplantation. The second dose should be withheld if post-operative complications such as graft loss 
occur. 
Reconstituted  Simulect  can  be  administered  as  an  intravenous  bolus  injection  or  as  an  intravenous 
infusion over 20–30 minutes. 
2.  Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Basiliximab,  the  active  substance  of  Simulect,  is  a  chimeric  murine/human  monoclonal  antibody 
(MAb) of the IgG class. The variable regions of the heavy and light chains are of murine origin, and 
the constant regions are of human origin.  
Composition 
Simulect  is  a  white  lyophilisate  to  be  dissolved  in  the  solvent,  water  for  injection,  before 
administration.  Each  vial  contains  10  mg  or  20  mg  basiliximab.  Buffering  agents,  sodium  chloride, 
sucrose  and  mannitol  are  also  present  and  comply  with  Ph.  Eur.  Specifications.  The  qualitative 
composition  for  both  strengths  is  identical.  The  filling  weight  indicated  corresponds  to  a  4.0  ml 
theoretical filling volume for the 20 mg strength and to 2.0 ml theoretical filling volume for the 10 mg 
strength,  respectively.  The 7.5% overfilling which  permits  the  withdrawal  of the nominal dose from 
the single-dose container is not included.  
Formulations of 5, 10 and 20 mg lyophilisates were used in clinical studies.  
1/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The container is a 6 ml colourless glass vial (borosilicate glass, type I, Ph. Eur.) closed with a rubber 
stopper and sealed with an aluminum cap with a blue polypropylene flip-off cover. 
Development pharmaceutics 
The size of the galenical form, of the composition, manufacturing procedure and packaging material 
has been described sufficiently and in very detail. 
Method of preparation 
The  required  amounts  of  excipients  are  dissolved  in  water  for  injections.  The  frozen  solution  of  the 
drug  substance  is  thawed  in  a  laminar  flow  environment  and  the  calculated  amount  is  added  to  the 
excipient  solution.  Samples  of  the  resulting  solution  are  retained  for  in-process  controls  (IPC).  
The bulk solution is prefiltered in a sterilised vessel and transported to the filling area. It is then sterile 
filtered  and  aliquots  are  dispensed  into  depyrogenised  glass  vials.  After  stoppering,  the  vials  are 
lyophilised using a procedure which is validated by the quality of the batches produced. Drug product 
vials are stored at 2-8°C pending analytical release. Particular manufacturing precautions like thawing 
and  equilibration  time,  maximum  standing  time  of  ingredients,  requirements  for  tubings  and 
membrane filters, stirring requirements, are specified. 
Production and control of starting materials 
The  active  ingredient  in  the  drug  product  is  a  chimeric  monoclonal  antibody,  which  recognises  the 
CD25 antigen on the surface of T-cells and inhibits the binding of interleukin-2. The antibody has a 
molecular weight of ca. 150`000 daltons and comprises light and heavy chains with variable regions of 
murine  origin  and  constant  human  regions.  The  antibody  has  been  developed  under  the  laboratory 
code,  SDZ  CHI  621.  The  proposed  International  Nonproprietary  Name  (INN)  is  basiliximab. 
Development genetics 
Simulect  originates  from  a  murine  hybridoma  cell  line  (RFT5,  IgG  2a)  producing  a  monoclonal 
antibody against the alpha chain of the human IL-2-receptor. In order to retain high avidity to CD25 
and  reduce  immunogenicity  in  humans,  the  variable  regions  of  the  heavy  and  light  chains  are  of 
murine  origin,  and  the  constant  regions  are  of  human  origin.  In  order  to  construct  and  express  a 
monoclonal  antibody  binding  to  the  CD25  epitope,  the  genetic  information  for  the  heavy  and  light 
chain variable regions from an existing murine antibody (RFT5) as well as for the constant parts from 
other sources had to be isolated. The heavy and light chain variable regions of Simulect were isolated 
after the construction of genomic libraries from the hybridoma cell line RFT5. Positive clones isolated 
from the libraries were characterised for the existence of the complete promoter/enhancer/leader/exon 
sequences and the deduced amino acid sequences from the heavy and light chain variable region exons 
were  compared  to  the  AA-sequence  resulting  from  direct  protein  sequencing.  The  heavy  and  light 
chain variable region exons including regulatory sequences were cloned in front of human heavy and 
light chain constant regions. The resulting expression constructs were either the murine variable light 
chain  and  human  light  chain  constant  region  or  the  murine  variable  heavy  chain  and  human  heavy 
chain  constant  region  in  the  background  of  the  pSV2neo  plasmid.  A  mutated  DHFR  gene  was 
introduced  in  the  light  chain  construct  to  allow  the  amplification  of  the  introduced  constructs  in 
transfected cells after selection with methotrexate.  
Both  constructs  were  transfected  by  electroporation  into  a  cell  line,  which  was  negative  for  the 
background expression of immunoglobulins. Transfected cells were selected by the addition of G418, 
cloned by limiting dilution and screened for their ability to inhibit the binding of iodine labelled hIL-2 
to either human PBL or MT4 cells. The clone producing the highest amounts of antibodies were used 
to construct the MCB. An estimation of the number of integrated copies of the two constructs in the 
MCB  and  the  MWCB  revealed  2  copies  for  the  heavy  chain  and  4  for  the  light  chain  construct. 
Genetic  stability  of  the  cell  lines  was  adequately  demonstrated.  Stability  of  the  expression  of  the 
constructs was determined by Northern blot analysis of the heavy and light chain mRNA and indicated 
stable expression in the MCB, MWCB and 2 post production lots.  
Cell bank system 
The  antibody is expressed in  murine  myeloma cells in cell culture. The cell bank system was tested 
appropriately according to the CPMP/III/5271/94 and CPMP/ICH/295/95 guidelines.  
2/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MCB was established in 1990. Vial 4 of the primary seed lot was used to prepare a Master Cell 
Bank  (MCB).  The  cells  were  cultivated  in  serum-free  medium,  but  for  long  term  storage  were 
resuspended in a freezing medium which contains foetal calf serum. Thus, FCS was used only during 
the establishment of the MCB. The supplier for the foetal calf serum (US origin) guarantees that the 
serum is free of mycoplasmas and viruses. The MCB was shown to be free of viral contamination of 
bovine  origin.  Today,  after  a  storage  period  of  7  years,  no  significant  decrease  in  the  viability  after 
thawing  is  observed.  Vial  14  of  the  MCB  was  used  to  prepare  a  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB).  
In the medium (2057.24.02) bovine-derived insulin was replaced by recombinant human insulin from 
Escherichia  coli.  Cells  were  grown  in  a  T-flask  and  then  expanded  to  roller  bottles.  Cells  were 
harvested by centrifugation and resuspended in a new freezing medium (without calf serum) prior to 
dispensing  into  vials.  The  vials  were  frozen  and  stored  in  the  vapour  phase  of  liquid  nitrogen.  
Vials were labelled with a laboratory code (CHI 621), the code identifying the primary seed lot, MCB 
vial number and the vial number of the WCB 1-95. 
All  test  results  indicate  that  the  cells  are  well  characterised  and  stable.  The  absence  of  detectable 
adventitious viruses, bovine viruses and murine viruses has been demonstrated with the only exception 
of a xenotropic retrovirus which is not unexpected for a murine cell line. It could be shown that this 
retrovirus is an infectious retrovirus derived from the persistently infected SP2/0 murine myeloma cell 
line.  It  was  demonstrated  that  the  retrovirus  was  not  able  to  infect  cell  lines  of  human  origin. 
Therefore,  the  cell  line  can  be  classified  as  case  B  according  to  section  5  of  the  CPMP/ICH/295/95 
guideline and can be accepted as a basis for the production of a medicinal product. According to the 
CPMP/ICH/295/95 guideline, three batches of the unprocessed bulk were tested for retroviruses and 
for adventitious viruses with negative result. Only in one of three batches tested about 106 retroviral 
particles per ml were determined in the bulk harvest.  
The  drug  substance  is  manufactured  at  Novartis  Pharma  AG  in  Basel  and  the  finished  medicinal 
product  at  Novartis  Pharma  AG  in  Stein  (both  Switzerland).  The  solvent,  water  for  injection,  
is  manufactured  at  Novartis  Pharma  AG,  Stein,  Switzerland,  and  Nycomed  Austria  GmbH,  
Linz, Austria. 
For  production,  the  cells  are  cultured  in  serum-free  medium  with  recombinant  human  insulin  as  the 
only  component  of  biological  origin  resulting  in  a  high  safety  level  of  the  source  material  for  the 
manufacture of Simulect. The antibody is produced using cell culture technology.  
Purification 
The  purification  process  comprises  eight  steps,  two  of  which  are  robust  procedures  for  viral 
inactivation and removal. The sequences of operations was changed during the development program 
to improve the logistics of viral clearance. Steps following viral clearance are carried out in separate 
rooms  from  preceeding  steps  to  avoid  cross  contamination.  Validation  studies  show  that  process-
related  impurities,  such  as  column  leachables,  host  cell  proteins  and  DNA  are  efficiently  and 
reproducibly eliminated. Structural variants of the chimeric antibody such as dimers and degradation 
products remain at low concentrations. The most common impurities identified were trace amounts of 
antibody-related  by-  and  degradation  products.  The  production  of  the  finished  product  is  well 
described.  After  lyophilisation,  the  vials  are  closed,  sealed  and  examined.  The  quality  of  the 
lyophilised cake was improved during development by adding mannitol to the excipients. The market 
formulation is identical to that used in Phase III clinical trials. 
Facility, equipment, cleaning procedures, in-process controls, re-use of columns, medium preparation 
has been described sufficiently. 
Definition of a batch 
A harvest lot is defined as the amount of culture filtrate which has been in the harvest tank and  has 
been  transferred  to  the  storage  tank.  Each  harvest  lot  which  meets  the  IPC  specifications  is  purified 
individually  up  to  product  fraction  step  3.  When  all  harvest  lots  from  one  cell  cultivation  run  have 
been purified to this stage, the resulting lots of product fraction step 3 must be released before pooling.  
Part harvests are processed individually to Step 3 of the process. The resulting product fractions from 
three  part  harvests  are  pooled  and  processed  as  a  single  batch  through  the  remaining  steps  of  the 
process. Thus a single cultivation, which yields six part harvests results in two batches of purified drug 
substance. 
3/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Process validation 
The following topics were addressed by the process validation: 
Medium  preparation  and  medium  stability,  consistency  of  inoculum  preparation,  seed  culture 
preparation and production culture, stability of cellular productivity, microbial contamination control 
during  harvest,  adventitious  agent  testing  of  bulk  harvest,  consistency  of  yield  of  individual 
purification  steps,  microbiological  monitoring  of  purification  and  buffer  preparation,  removal  of 
process  related  contaminants,  stability  of  intermediates,  consistency  of  isoform  distribution,  column 
performance and life-time of columns and virus removal and inactivation (validated with small scale 
process), homogenisation of drug substance solution after thawing, homogenisation of bulk formulated 
solution,  pre-filtration  to  transport  vessel,  washing  and  sterilisation  of  stoppers,  washing  and 
depyrogenisation  of  vials,  filtration  to  filling  line,  vial  filling  process,  lyophilisation  process. 
Studies  to  demonstrate  material  compatibility  with  tubings,  sterile  filteres  and  stoppers  were 
performed. 
Characterisation 
The  chimeric  antibody  including  the  batch  No.  94904,  which  is  used  as  reference  substance,  is 
extensively  characterised  using  a  battery  of  modern  analytical  techniques.  Data  on  the  following 
parameters are provided: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Structural formula (sequence of the light and heavy chains) 
Molecular formula based on the amino acid sequence 
Relative molecular mass of 144 354.19 Daltons 
Amino acid composition 
Isoelectric points of the three isoforms 
Structural evidence for the active substance  
- 
- 
- 
Post translational modifications (amino acid sequence, carbohydrate linkage) 
Molecular mass determination by MALDI-TOF MS 
Amino acid sequence determination (N-terminal sequencing, peptide mapping, 
microheterogeneity of the C-terminal part) 
Physico-chemical characteristics 
- 
- 
- 
- 
SDS-PAGE (reduced) 
IEF 
Cation exchange chromatography 
Size exclusion chromatography 
• 
Biological characterisation  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inhibition of the mixed lymphocyte reaction 
Inhibition of IL-2 receptor binding 
Cross-inhibition of IL-2 receptor binding by CHI 621 and RFT5 
Immunoglobulin subclass determination 
Staining of various tissues with biotinylated CHI 621 and RFT5 
Analytical development 
In addition to the validation of the routine tests, the dossier contains description on the validation of 
methods  used  during  development.  The  validation  studies  have  been  performed  very  well.  
The choice of routine tests is described comprehensively.  
Clearly  defined  and  scientifically  justified  specifications  have  been  set.  This  includes  suitable 
packaging for the drug substance, shelf life and storage conditions, release and shelf life specifications 
4/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
for each quality characteristic. Most of the specifications are obtained from the results of the long-term 
stability testing programme. 
In addition to the routine release tests, the following tests are performed to characterise the reference 
material: amino acid composition, subclass determination, molecular mass determination of the heavy 
and  light  chains,  peptide  mapping,  determination  of  free  SH-groups,  quantification  of  isoforms, 
oligosaccharide characterisation.  
Data  are submitted on  all listed  parameters  which  show that the  process is  considered  as consistent. 
Impurities 
The  most  common impurities identified were trace amounts  of antibody-related by-  and degradation 
products.  The  removal  of  various  process-related  impurities  was  also  investigated.  The  results 
demonstrate  the  removal  of  these  substances  during  the  purification  process.  Testing  for  these 
compounds will no longer be included in the release criteria for SDZ CHI 621 drug substance solution. 
Control tests on the finished product 
The control tests and specifications for the drug product include controls on  purity, by-products and 
sterility. Batch analysis shows that for all parameters a constant quality is achieved for pilot and the 
four production scale batches. 
Stability 
Active substance 
Stability data show that a temperature of less than -600C is the preferred storage temperature for the 
drug  substance.  Stability  data  up  to  12  months  are  available  for  material  produced  at  pilot  scale.  
Three  batches  from  the  full  scale  production  plant  have  been  put  on  stability  and  6  month  data  are 
available at the time of filing. The data have been approved to support a re-test date of 36 months for 
the active ingredient stored at < -60°C. 
Finished product 
Stability data for pilot batches stored for up to 24 months are available and show that at -200C and 50C 
the  drug  product  remains  stable  and  within  specifications.  Three  further  batches  of  drug  product 
produced at production scale have been put on stability. Data of 12 months are available at the time of 
filing.  
Post-authorisation,  the  applicant  submitted  additional  stability  data  obtained  from  three  production 
batches,  which  sufficiently  justify  the  extension  of  the  shelf  life  as  declared  in  the  SPC. 
Virus validation 
The overall viral safety of Simulect has been demonstrated. Four steps have been identified to ensure 
the  viral  safety  of  the  product.  Enveloped  and  non-enveloped  viruses  are  effectively  removed  by  a 
15nm  filtration  step.  Two  chromatographic  steps  further  contribute  to  virus  removal.  The  re-use  of 
chromatography  columns  has  been  validated  and  the  lifetime  of  the  columns  has  been  established. 
Retroviruses  and  other  pH-sensitive  viruses  are  inactivated  during  incubation  at  low  pH. 
TSE compliance 
Compliance with Directive 1999/82/EEC has been sufficiently demonstrated. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Part III of the dossier was considered as of very good quality. Documents were filed according to the 
Notice to Applicants. The studies were performed according to the principles of GLP. The results of 
pre-clinical screening do not reveal adverse effects against the use of Simulect in the clinical setting. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic  studies  with  Simulect  or  its  murine  progenitor  were  either  performed  with 
mononuclear  cell  fractions  prepared  from  peripheral  blood  from  4  different  species  (human,  rhesus, 
                   EMEA 2005 
5/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
cynomolgus  and  dog),  standard  tissues  of  human  origin  or  IL-2-receptor  expressing  cell  lines. 
Simulect  bound  specifically  to  the  α-chain  of  the  primate  IL-2-receptor,  but  not  to  the  dog  IL-2 
receptor.  Simulect  inhibited  the  binding  of  human  IL-2  to  its  receptor  at  concentrations  of  1µg/mL. 
Receptor  blocking  profiles  of  Simulect  and  its  murine  progenitor  RFT5  were  comparable;  
they demonstrate equal potency in their ability to inhibit the binding of radiolabelled IL-2 on the IL-2 
receptor  expressed  on  T-lymphocytes.  The  binding  of  IL-2  and  consequentially  lymphocyte 
proliferation are completely inhibited at concentrations achieved in the clinical setting, thus indicating 
the  successful  grafting  and  expression  of  the  variable  regions  of  the  heavy  and  light  chain.  
Binding  studies  of  Simulect  with  standard  tissues  of  human  origin  indicate  specificity  for  cells 
expressing CD25 which mostly exist within lymphoid organs. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two  different  assay  systems  (ELISA  and  RIA)  were  used  to  determine  Simulect  concentrations  in 
rhesus monkeys or human blood samples. 
Pharmacokinetics of SDZ CIH 621 following single or multiple administration were studied in rhesus 
and cynomolgous monkeys in a 4-weeks intravenous toxicity studies.  
Toxicology 
Single dose and repeated dose toxicity 
While  classical  single  dose  toxicity  studies  have  not  been  performed,  the  results  of  several  repeated 
dose  toxicity  studies  in  Rhesus  monkeys  indicated  no  toxic  effects  up  to  the  maximum  dose  of 
5mg/kg.  Repeated  dose  toxicity  study  has  been  performed  in  monkeys  (4  weeks  intravenous  in  the 
rhesus monkey with an 8 week treatment, doses at 0.5 to 4.5 mg/kg every 4th day). No mortality and 
apparent  signs  of  toxicity  were  revealed.  No  drug-related  effects  on  body  weight,  no  clinical  or 
hematological findings, ophalmoscopic or electrocardiographic findings. No effects on organ weight, 
macroscopic and microscopic necroscopy. 
Apart  from  the  studies  performed  in  primates,  no  toxicity  studies  in  rodents  or  non-rodent  animals 
except  primates  could  have  been  carried  out  because  of  the  species  specificity  of  the  antibody. 
Increased clearance occurred in the low dose group corresponding to the occurrence of anti-idiotypic 
antibodies  in  75%  of  the  animals  of  this  group  after  four  weeks  of  administration.  The  mean 
elimination half-time was approximately 5.5 days.  
Reproduction studies 
Three  groups  of  12  pregnant  cynomolgous  monkeys  were  treated  intravenously  with  0  (placebo),  
1  and  5  mg/kg  b.w.  /  day  twice  weekly  on  days  20,  24,  27,  31,  34,  38,  41,  45  and  48  of  gestation. 
At 5 mg/kg no maternal toxicity was observed. Two abortions out of 12 pregnancies could be dose - 
related. Mean fetal weight was lower than in control group.  
A linear relationship between dose and exposure was observed after single administration. Elimination 
was slow in both groups, with an apparently biphasic pattern. 
Maternal  pharmacokinetics  showed  that  at  low  dose  (1  mg/kg)  there  were  marked  interindividual 
differences, which might be due to differences in antibody levels. Differences were not important at 
the high dose, thus their role in Simulect embryofetotoxicity is possibly a minor one. In the absence of 
maternal  toxicity  both  dose  levels  induced  dose-related  intrauterine  growth  retardation.  At  the  high 
dose there were cases of abortion (2/12, 17%) and a single instance of malformation.  
Studies on the embryo-fetal development in Cynomolgus monkeys did not indicate an impact of the 
intravenous administration of Simulect on the foetus. 
Mutagenic potential 
Negative results have been obtained in the Ames test and in chromosomal aberration tests with V79 
Chinese  Hamster  Cells  as  expected  for  a  proteinous  substances  like  Simulect.  The  compound  was 
unable to induce mutations in S. typhimurum. 
The  mutagenic/oncogenic  potential  has  not  been  investigated  which  is  acceptable  for  a  monoclonal 
antibody.  
6/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Local tolerance 
Effects of local tolerance/toxicity were studied in rabbits, an animal system which does not express the 
epitope Simulect is binding with. The results of the studies did not indicate significant local irritations 
due to the test substance. 
Immunotoxicity 
There was evidence of anti-idiotype antibody formation in toxicokinetic studies. 
Cross  reactivity  studies  on  many  human  tissues  indicate  that  no  immunological  reactions  are  to  be 
expected in man. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
4. 
Simulect is a monoclonal antibody directed against the α-chain of the IL-2 receptor. Binding leads to 
an inhibition of activated T-lymphocytes. The indication for Simulect is the prophylaxis of acute organ 
rejection in de novo allogenic renal transplantation and is to be used concomitantly with ciclosporin 
for  microemulsion-  and  corticosteroid-based  immunosuppression,  in  patients  with  panel  reactive 
antibodies  less  than  80%,  or  in  a  triple  maintenance  immunosuppressive  regimen  containing 
ciclosporin  for  microemulsion,  corticosteroids  and  either  azathioprine  or  mycophenolate  mofetil. 
Renal transplantation is an efficient therapy of end-stage renal failure. One of the major problems to 
be managed for successful organ transplantation is the reaction of the immune system of the recipient 
against  the  donor  organ.  This  could  lead  to  acute  or  chronic  rejection,  and  in  case  of  unsuccessful 
treatment to the loss of the transplant.  
In renal transplantation, the majority of centres report the incidence of acute rejection to be between 
10  -  40%,  and  approximately  80-90%  of  first  rejections  occur  within  the  first  6  weeks  of 
transplantation.  Acute  and  chronic  rejection  are  the  most  common  causes  of  graft  failure.  The  acute 
rejection episode is a risk factor for chronic rejection and graft loss. Further studies have shown that 
especially  late  acute  rejection  episodes  (>  60  days)  are  combined  with  the  risk  of  chronic  rejection. 
Nevertheless, the benefit of therapy of acute rejection and the frequency of acute rejection episodes are 
also  important  for  the  risk  of  chronic  rejection.  Graft  function  is  usually  measured  by  glomerular 
filtration rate, and serum creatinine levels. 
lymphocytes.  In 
is  rather  unspecific  with  all  T 
The most common regimens for immunosuppression used are the “double”“ (cyclosporin and steroids) 
and the„“triple”“ (cyclosporin, azathioprine and steroids) therapy regimes. Biological anti-lymphocyte 
preparations, such as polyclonal anti-T cell immunoglobulins are additionally used for prevention or 
treatment  of  rejection  episodes.  The  decision  to  use  one  of  these  medication  combinations  mainly 
depends on the immunological risk profile of the patient. Currently, only one monoclonal antibody is 
approved for treatment of rejection episodes, i.e., the anti-CD3 antibody Orthoclone OKT3. Because 
these  agents  interact  with  all  T  lymphocytes,  significant  side-effects  occur.  The  binding  of  these 
preparations 
last  years,  non-specific 
immunosuppressive  agents  have  been  developed,  e.g.  mycophenolate  mofetil,  tacrolimus  and 
sirolimus.  During  the  immune  reaction  of  the  host  against  the  transplant,  IL-2  induces  the  rapid 
proliferation  of  T  lymphocytes  by  binding  to  its  high-affinity  receptor  on  the  surface  of  antigen-
activated  T  lymphocytes.  IL-2R  comprises  three  trans-membrane  protein  chains:  α  (CD25),  
β (CD122) and γ (CD132). The expression of CD25 is low on resting T lymphocytes but is induced 
due to allogenic stimulation after grafting, thus leading to a high level of expression on the surface of 
activated  T  lymphocytes.  The  predominant  role  of  the  IL-2/IL-2R  pathway  in  T-lymphocyte 
proliferation and the selective expression of CD25 on activated T lymphocytes led to the identification 
of  CD25  as  a  potential  target  for  monoclonal  antibody  therapy.  Simulect  is  a  monoclonal  chimeric 
mouse-human  antibody  directed  against  the  α  -chain  of  the  IL-2  receptor.  The  mechanism  is  the 
inhibition  of  immunocompetent  cells  which  are  involved  in  the  acute  rejection.  At  the  time  of  the 
assessment  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  Simulect,  the  use  of  monoclonal  anti-IL-2  receptor 
antibodies  was  not  approved  for  any  kind  of  diseases.  In  other  clinical  studies,  murine  anti-IL-2 
receptor antibodies were tested, but without clinical benefit. 
the 
Clinical studies 
457  adult  renal  recipients  received  Simulect  in  three  phase  I-II  studies  and  two  phase  III  studies. 
Ninety-four patients  received Simulect in  three  phase  I-II and  363 adult  kidney transplant recipients 
                   EMEA 2005 
7/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
received  Simulect  in  two  phase  III  studies.  In  addition  paediatric  renal  and  liver  transplant  patients 
were treated with Simulect.  Moreover, adult liver transplant recipients were included in two clinical 
studies but the applicant did not pursue the claim for the liver transplantation indication. 
The studies had the following aims: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Dose  finding  studies:  The  results  of  phase  I-II/dose-finding  studies  did  not  show  any  dose-
dependence from body weight, gender, age or race. The analysis of the phase I-II studies (B101, 
B105,  B106)  shows  that  40  mg  Simulect  are  efficient  in  suppressing  CD25-positive  
T-lymphocytes over 4-6 weeks.  
Developing of a dose regime which prevents over-immunosuppression: The dose regime of 2 x 
20  mg  Simulect  on  the  days  0  and  4  does  not  lead  to  over-immunosuppression.  The  rate  and 
kind of infections were similar in both arms of Phase III trials. 
Determination  of  immunogenicity:  Screening  was  performed  both  during  and  following 
Simulect  treatment  for  a  variety  of  potential  antibody  responses,  e.g.  human  anti-chimeric 
antibodies  (HACA),  human  anti-mouse  antibodies  (HAMA)  and  other.  HAMA  responses  to 
Simulect treated patients were rare (3-5%).  
Reduction  of  the  rate  of  acute  rejection:  The  reduction  of  the  rate  of  acute  rejection  was  the 
primary  endpoint  of  two  phase  III  studies.  Simulect  treated  patients  had  a  lower  risk  of 
developing an acute rejection episode. However, the patient and graft survival rate was similar 
in the Simulect- and placebo-group. 
Safety profile: 94 patients in phase I-II and 363 in phase III patients received cumulative doses 
of Simulect. All patients were followed up for 12 months and up to 5 years (study extension). 
There  were  no  additional  adverse  events  reported  in  the  Simulect-group  compared  with  the 
placebo-group.  Furthermore,  the  incidence  and  the  kind  of  adverse  events  were  similar. 
Summary of the clinical studies submitted for the Marketing authorisation assessment: 
Table 1: summary of studies included in the clinical development program 
Study No. 
Country 
Design and number of patients 
(n) 
Dosage regimen  
(total Simulect dose) 
Phase I-II studies 
B101 
B105 
B106 
Phase III-studies 
B201 
B352 
UK 
UK, NL 
Open (n=24) 
Open (n=39) 
15 - 150 mg between days 0 - 24 
15 mg or 20 mg between days 0 - 10 
FR 
Open (n=32) 
40 mg, 60 mg on day 0 
BE, Can, CH, 
FR, DE, NL, 
UK 
USA 
randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled (n=380) 
randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled (n=346) 
40 mg divided between days 0, 4 
40 mg divided between days 0, 4 
8/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies submitted subsequently, after the Marketing authorisation: 
Table 2: summary of studies included in the clinical development program 
Study duration 
Study 
Code 
Patient Population, 
no. randomized 
Study Objective 
(assessments) 
Simulect doses  
and control groups 
Studies in renal transplantation in adults using triple immunosuppressive therapy 
I 
INT-10  Efficacy, Safety, 
tolerability, at 6m post 
transplantation, limited 
follow-up at 12m 
INT-11  Safety, tolerability, 
efficacy at 6m post 
transplantation,  
follow-up at 12m 
US-01 
Safety, tolerability, 
efficacy (+health 
economics) at 6 and 12m 
post transplantation. 
345 adult, renal 1st or 
2nd transplantation, 
aged 18-70, 
male/female 
123 adult, renal 
transplantation, aged 
18-70, male/female, 
first or second 
transplantation 
138 adult, primary 
renal transplantation 
aged 18-75, 
male/female 
6 months 
Doses on day 0 
(<2h pre-
Transplantation) 
and day 4. 
6 months 
Doses on days 0 
(<2h pre- 
transplantation) 
and 4.  
12 months 
Doses on days 0 
(<2h pre- 
transplantation) 
and 4. 
II 
B152 
Studies on transplantation in paediatric patients 
41 paediatric, renal, 
transplanted patients 
either sex aged <16 yrs 
PK evaluation, safety, 
efficacy at 6m and 12m 
post transplantation. 
12 months 
Doses at days 0 
and 4. 
C102 
PK evaluation, safety, 
efficacy, at 6m and 12m 
post transplantation 
20 paediatric 
male/female liver 
transplanted patients 
aged <16 yrs 
12 months 
Doses on days 0 
and 4. 
2 x 20mg (n=172)  
placebo (n=173) 
[All pts also had 
Cyclosporine, steroids, 
azathioprine] 
2 x 20mg (n=59) placebo 
(n=64)  
[All pts also had 
Cyclosporine, steroids and 
mycophenolate mofetil] 
2 x 20mg Simulect plus: 
early Cyclosporine (n=70) 
delayed Cyclosporine + 
ATGAM (n=68) 
2 x 12mg/m2 to a max 2 x 
20mg (n=13) 
2 x 10 or 20mg (n=28) 
[All pts also had 
Cyclosporine and steroids] 
2 x 12mg/m2 to a max 2 x 
20mg (n=20)  
[in addition both groups 
had Cyclosporine and 
steroids] 
Supportive Studies in liver transplantation in adults : Unclaimed indication 
III 
C304 
Efficacy safety, 
tolerability at 6m and 
12m. Also PK 
characteristics. 
381 adult, de novo liver 
transplanted patients 
aged 18-75, 
male/female 
INT-13  Efficacy, safety, 
tolerability, at 6m post 
transplantation, follow-
up at 12m 
101 adult, de novo liver 
transplanted patients 
aged 18-75, 
male/female 
12 months 
Doses on days 0 
(<6h after 
reperfusion of 
graft) and 4. 
6 months 
Doses on days 0 
(<6h after 
reperfusion of 
graft) and 4. 
2 x 20mg (n=188) placebo 
(n=193) 
2 x 20mg (n=101) 
[in addition, patients 
received Cyclosporine, 
steroids, azathioprine) 
(Studies B152, C102, C304, INT-10 and CHI-US-01 also provide PK or PD data to the program) 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic  data  were  obtained  from  all  7  studies  performed.  Assays  performed  were  mainly 
flow cytometry of CD25+-T-cells, measurement of soluble IL-2R serum levels and antibody response - 
immunogenicity screening. 
A  concentration  of  0,2  µg/ml  Simulect  is  sufficient  to  decrease  the  percentage  of  CD25α-positive  
T-lymphocytes to less than 3% (receptor-saturating threshold).  
Simulect does not influence other cells, and in particular T-cell subsets like CD3, CD4 etc. Soluble IL-
2 receptor shedding from the surface of activated T-cells shows an inverse pattern to CD25α-positive 
T-lymphocytes. Furthermore, data are available regarding body compartments. Pelvic lymph nodes of 
11 patients were analysed and IL-2R was blocked in 7/11 (64%) patients, 1-6 hours after application 
of Simulect. Comparable results were obtained from renal biopsies. 
9/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  immunogenicity  of  Simulect  is  low,  only  1  of  270  tested  patients  developed  anti-chimeric 
antibodies.  Six  of  172  patients  developed  anti-mouse  antibodies,  whereas  4  of  them  also  received 
OKT3 in addition to Simulect. 
Pharmacokinetics 
regarding  pharmacokinetic 
The  analysis 
trials  
(two studies ongoing). An idiotypic-specific ELISA method was used to measure the Simulect serum 
levels.  This  ELISA  was  shown  to  be  specific  and  sensitive  and  to  have  minimal  interferences  from 
soluble IL-2R α. 
seven  clinical 
included  data 
from  all 
In  adults,  after  administration  of  a  single  dose  of  40  mg  of  Simulect,  the  steady-state  distribution 
volume  is  8.8  ±  3.2  l,  the  elimination  half  life  is  5.8  ±  2.0  days,  and  the  total  body  clearance  is  
46.2 ± 16.1 ml/h. Mean peak serum concentration following a single dose of 20 mg of Simulect is 7.1 
±  5.1  µg/ml.  No  clinically  relevant  influence  of  body  weight  on  pharmacokinetic  data  was  noted. 
In  infants  and  children  (age  1–11 years,  n=25),  the  steady-state  distribution  volume  was  4.8±2.1 l, 
half-life  was  9.5±4.5 days  and  clearance  was  17±6 ml/h.  In  adolescents  (age  12–16 years,  n=14),  
the  steady-state  distribution  volume  was  7.8±5.1 l,  half-life  was  9.1±3.9 days  and  clearance  was 
31±19 ml/h. Drug clearance and volumes in children were on average half of those in adults; whereas 
disposition in adolescents was similar of that of adults. 
When administered as 20 mg on days 0 and 4 in the context of triple therapies including azathioprine 
or  mycophenolate  mofetil  (studies  INT-10  and  US-01),  Simulect  did  not  appear  to  alter  the 
pharmacokinetic-dynamic relationship compared with dual therapy. It showed similar ranges of CD25 
saturation  compared  with  dual  therapy,  and  the  efficacy-safety  profile  did  not  raise  any  concerns  in 
multicenter controlled trials.  
Efficacy 
Use of dual Immunosuppressive regimen 
Two  phase  III  studies  were  performed  to  determine  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  Simulect  in  adult 
patients.  Most  of  the  patients  received  cyclosporin  and  steroids  (dual  therapy).  Some  patients  were 
additionally  treated  with  azathioprine  or  mycophenolate  mofetil  (MMF).  The  Simulect  and  placebo-
group  were  well  matched  in  terms  of  age,  gender,  race,  weight,  height,  cause  of  end  stage  renal 
disease, cold ischemic time of the transplant, mismatches etc. 
The primary endpoint was the percentage of patients free of rejection during the first 6 months post-
transplant. Treatment  with Simulect leads to a  significant  reduction of first  acute rejection episodes. 
But there were no significant differences between the two arms in patient or graft survival after 6 and 
12  months  (combined  data  from  the  two  studies  are  presented  in  table  3).  With  regard  to  secondary 
end-point,  Simulect  reduced  the  number  of  rejection  episodes  requiring  antibody  or  alternative 
immunosuppressive  agents.  Fewer  graft  losses  attributed  to  rejection  were  observed  in  the  Simulect 
group  as  compared  to  placebo.  In  the  Simulect  group,  a  lack  of  late  rejections  was  observed.  
At the time of the initial assessment, the CPMP did not agree with the estimate of the applicant that 
Simulect could replace polyclonal or monoclonal anti-T-cell antibody preparations because OKT3 was 
not  approved  in  Europe  for  prophylactic  use  and  since  Simulect  had  not  been  investigated  against 
these two agents. 
10/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Primary and secondary efficacy endpoints (Intent to treat population - Month 0-6 and 0-12): 
Endpoint 
Month: 0 - 6 
Month: 0 - 12 
Primary endpoint 
Death, graft loss or first 
rejection episode 
Secondary endpoints 
Death 
Death or graft loss 
Graft loss 
Simulect 
Placebo 
(N=363) 
(N=359) 
P-
value 
Simulect 
Placebo 
(N=363) 
(N=359) 
P-
value 
145 
40%  201  56% 0.001  159  44%  213  59%  0.001 
12 
32 
24 
3% 
9% 
7% 
8 
2%  0.378 
36  10% 0.577 
29 
8%  0.450 
14 
42 
32 
4% 
12 
3%  0.711 
12% 
46  13%  0.610 
9% 
37  10%  0.496 
First rejection episode 
126 
35%  187  52% 0.001  137  38%  197  55%  0.001 
Second rejection episode 
37 
10% 
57  16% 0.023 
43 
12% 
65  18%  0.018 
First biopsy confirmed 
rejection episode 
Death, graft loss or first 
biopsy confirmed rejection 
episode 
Graft loss preceded by a 
rejection episode 
Graft loss preceded by a 
rejection episode treated with 
antibody therapy 
First rejection episode treated 
with antibody therapy 
First rejection episode treated 
with antibody therapy, 
tacrolimus, MMF, or 
azathioprine 
108 
31%  152  45% 0.001  115  33%  162  48%  0.001 
129 
36%  167  47% 0.003  140  39%  181  50%  0.001 
11 
3% 
18 
5%  0.175 
17 
5% 
24 
7%  0.245 
4 
1% 
16 
4%  0.006 
9 
2% 
18 
5%  0.073 
51 
14% 
91  25% 0.001 
54 
15% 
94  26%  0.001 
64 
18%  112  31% 0.001 
71 
20%  121  34%  0.001 
The results of 5-years follow-up of the Phase III trials (B201 and B352) have been submitted after the 
marketing authorisation, as follow-up commitment. With regard to efficacy, particular reference was 
made  to  the  clinically  relevant  parameters  (such  as  chronic  rejections,  graft  and  patient  survival), 
needed for rejection treatments.  
In  a  pooled  analysis  of  these  two  five-year  open-label  extension  studies  (586  patients  total),  the 
combined graft and patient survival rates were not statistically different for the Simulect and placebo 
groups. These extension studies also showed that patients who experienced an acute rejection episode 
during the first year after transplantation experienced more graft losses and deaths over the five-year 
follow-up period than patients who had no rejection. Simulect did not influence these events.  
Use of triple Immunosuppressive regimen 
Simulect is effective in reducing the incidence of acute rejection episodes in de novo organ transplant 
renal  studies. 
recipients.  This  benefit  was  clearly  demonstrated 
therapy 
triple 
the 
in 
11/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the three adult studies reported, both placebo controlled studies INT-10 and INT-11 demonstrated 
significantly  superior  efficacy  to  placebo,  and  compared  against  an  active  comparator  in  the  third 
study US-01 the treatment effect was equivalent. 
-  During  the  6-month  pivotal  double-blind  multicenter  study  INT-10,  Simulect  proved  highly 
significant in reducing the incidence of an acute renal rejection (20.8% in Simulect versus 34.9% in 
placebo,  p=0.005);  this  difference  of  14%  corresponded  to  a  relative  reduction  of  40%  in  crude 
incidence.  The  difference  in  the  proportion  of  patients  experiencing  an  acute  rejection  episode  at  
4  weeks  post-transplant  is  approximately  16%.  Approximately  30%  of  the  placebo  treated  group 
experienced acute rejection by 4 weeks, indicating that Simulect almost halved the incidence of acute 
rejections. Treatment failure (acute rejection, graft loss or death) was also lower in the Simulect group 
(25.6% in Simulect versus 39.5% in placebo, p=0.008). 
- The second placebo-controlled study INT-11 showed similarly favourable results though this study 
was not powered to demonstrate statistical significance. The crude rate for first acute rejection episode 
was  lower  in  the  Simulect  group  (15.3%)  that  in  the  placebo  group  (26.6%),  a  relative  reduction  of 
42.5%  within  the  first  6  months  post-transplantation.  Although  this  difference  was  not  statistically 
significant,  the  magnitude  of  relative  reduction  was  in  accordance  with  the  findings  of  the  
CHI  INT-10  study.  Between-group  differences  in  all  efficacy  variables  assessed  favoured  Simulect. 
Both rejection episodes treated with antibody therapy (p=0.079) and treatment failure (p=0.061) were 
borderline  statistically  in  favour  of  Simulect  (despite  the  study  not  being  powered  to  show  a 
difference)  and  the  incidence  of  graft  loss  was  less  with  Simulect  (5.1%  vs.  7.8%  in  the  placebo 
group). 
Using Kaplan-Meier analysis, the difference in survival estimates was statistically significant in favour 
of  Simulect  at  month  6  for  both  first  acute  rejection  episode  and  treatment  failure  (p=0.002  for 
difference in Kaplan-Meier estimates in both cases). 
- The third study compared Simulect to an active comparator ATGAM, and demonstrated efficacy at a 
near identical level. ATGAM is not to consider as a relevant comparator since it is not licensed in all 
European  countries.  Polyclonal  anti-T-cell  sera  can  differ  markedly  with  respect  to  clinical  efficacy 
and safety parameter. Therefore, the ATGAM arm should only be considered carefully as model for 
ATGs. The data on comparison with an ATG were limited. 
Simulect in combination with early Neoral was as efficacious as ATGAM and delayed Neoral in the 
prophylaxis  of  acute  rejection  in  this  study.  The  rate  of  biopsy  proven  acute  rejection  was  similar 
between  the  treatment  groups  at  6  and  12  months  post-transplant  (approximately  20%  in  each 
treatment group at both timepoints). The incidence of treatment failure was also similar, at 21.4% in 
the Simulect group at both 6 and 12 months compared to 20.0% and 23.1% respectively in the placebo 
group.  The  time  to  first  biopsy  proven  acute  rejection  was  longer  in  the  Simulect  group  than  in  the 
ATGAM  group;  an  estimate  of  the  time  until  one  quarter  of  the  patients  had  experienced  their  first 
treated rejection episode was longer in patients treated with Simulect than with the active comparator. 
Death-censored graft survival was similar between the treatment groups and was 97% and 97% in the 
Simulect and ATGAM groups respectively. 
• 
Overall conclusions with regard to the use of Simulect in triple immunosuppressive regimens: 
•  The  pivotal  double-blind  multicenter  study  INT-10  demonstrated  a  favourable  and  statistically 
significant  benefit  for  Simulect  in  rejection  prophylaxis,  when  used  with  triple  background 
maintenance immunosuppressive therapy regimen (with azathioprine). 
In  the  smaller  placebo-controlled  study  INT-11,  between-group  differences  in  all  efficacy 
variables  assessed  favoured  Simulect.  Relative  reduction  in  the  rate  of  first  acute  rejection 
episode  seen  at  6  months,  at  42.5%,  was  similar  to  that  seen  in  the  pivotal  study.  Treatment 
failure, compared using Kaplan-Meier survival estimates, was statistically significantly lower in 
the Simulect group. 
•  Compared to an active comparator ATGAM, in study US-01 Simulect demonstrated efficacy at a 
near identical level. 
Incidence of graft loss was low and comparable between treatments in all studies. 
• 
12/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Simulect  did  not  appear  to  add  to  the  background  of  adverse  events  seen  in  organ  transplantation 
patients  as  a  consequence  of  their  underlying  disease  and  the  concurrent  administration  of 
immunosuppressants  and  other  medications.  In  the  four  placebo-controlled  trials,  the  pattern  of 
adverse events in 590 patients treated with the recommended dose of Simulect was indistinguishable 
from  that  in  595 patients  treated  with  placebo.  Simulect  did  not  increase  the  incidence  of  serious 
adverse  events  observed  when  compared  to  placebo.  The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-related 
adverse events among all patients in the individual studies was not significantly different between the 
Simulect (7.1 % - 40 %) and the placebo (7.6 % - 39 %) treatment groups. 
In adult patients:  
The  most  commonly  reported  (> 20 %)  events  following  dual  or  triple  therapy  in  both  treatment 
groups  (Simulect  vs.  placebo)  were  constipation,  urinary  tract  infections,  pain,  nausea,  peripheral 
oedema,  hypertension,  anaemia,  headache,  hyperkalaemia,  hypercholesterolaemia,  surgical  wound 
complication,  weight  increase,  increased  serum  creatinine,  hypophosphataemia,  diarrhoea  and  upper 
respiratory tract infection. 
In paediatric patients: The most commonly reported (> 20 %) events following dual therapy in both 
(< 35 kg  vs.  ≥ 35 kg  weight)  cohorts  were  urinary  tract  infections,  hypertrichosis,  rhinitis,  fever, 
hypertension, upper respiratory tract infection, viral infection, sepsis and constipation. 
Incidence of Malignancies: The overall incidence of malignancies among all patients in the individual 
studies  was  similar  between  the  Simulect  and  the  comparator  treatment  groups.  Overall, 
lymphoma/lymphoproliferative  disease  occurred  in  0.1 %  (1/701)  of  patients  in  the  Simulect  group 
compared  with  0.3 %  (2/595)  of  placebo  patients.  Other  malignancies  were  reported  among  
1.0 %  (7/701)  of  patients  in  the  Simulect  group  compared  with  1.2 %  (7/595)  of  placebo  patients. 
Incidence of Infectious Episodes: The overall incidence and profile of infectious episodes among dual 
and  triple  therapy  patients  was  similar  between  the  Simulect  and  the  placebo  treatment  groups 
(Simulect = 75.9 %, placebo = 75.6 %); the incidence of serious infections was 25.2 % in the Simulect 
group  and  24.8 %  in  the  comparator  group.  The  incidence  of  CMV  infections  was  similar  in  both 
groups (14.6 % vs. 17.3 %), following either dual or triple therapy regimen. 
The incidence and causes of deaths following dual or triple therapy were similar in Simulect (2.8 %) 
and  placebo  groups  (2.6 %),  with  the  most  common  cause  of  deaths  in  both  treatment  groups  being 
infections (Simulect = 1.3 %, placebo = 1.4 %). 
Among the post-marketing clinical studies assessed (ITT population, n = 1161), the bolus injection of 
Simulect,  compared  with  the  intravenous  infusion  over  20–30 minutes,  was  well  tolerated,  with  a 
comparable incidence of adverse events reported on the days of Simulect administration. There was no 
limiting acute intolerance to the administration of Simulect as an IV bolus injection. Furthermore there 
was no evidence of cytokine-release syndrome or anaphylaxis in any of the studies.  
In a pooled analysis of the two five-year extension B201  and B352 pivotal studies, the incidence of 
LPD  and  cancer  was  found  to  be  equal  with  Simulect  7%  (21/295)  and  placebo  7%  (21/291).  
Long-term  safety  data  also  showed  that  the  incidence  and  cause  of  death  remained  similar  in  both 
treatment  groups,  (Simulect  15 %,  placebo  11 %),  the  primary  cause  of  death  being  cardiac-related 
disorders (Simulect 5 %, placebo 4 %). 
First 5 year renewal 
During the period cover by the eight PSUR the main safety concerns described were hypersensitivity 
reactions.  However,  the  frequency  of  these  events  is  in  the  range  of  what  could  be  accepted  from 
hospitalised  patients  and  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  currently  states  a  warning  regarding  the  rarely 
occurrence  of  severe  acute  hypersensitivity  reactions  including  anaphylactoid  type  reactions.  These 
reactions  have  to  continue  to  be  closely  monitored  including  suspicious  cases  of  cytokine  release 
syndrome in the yearly safety update reports. 
13/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk/benefit assessment 
The  applicant  has  demonstrated,  in  two  Phase  III  clinical  trials,  that  the  addition  of  Simulect  to  a 
standard  immuno-suppressive  regimen  reduces  the  number  of  acute  graft  rejection  episodes.  
There  were  no  significant  differences  between  the  two  arms  in  patient  or  graft  survival  after  6  and  
12  months.  Beside  the  significant  improvement  in  the  primary  endpoint,  other  factors  also  had 
demonstrated  the  superiority  of  Simulect  over  the  used  standard  immunosuppressive  regimen.  
The  data  demonstrated  a  good  safety  profile  of  Simulect  during  the  12-months  follow-up  period. 
The  marketing  authorisation  has  been  therefore  recommended,  waiting  for  the  results  of  5-years 
follow-up of the Phase III trials.  
Further to the assessment of the  5-years follow-up safety and efficacy data, as well the clinical data 
related  to  the  use  of  Simulect  in  triple  immunosuppressive  regimen,  the  risk-benefit  ratio  was 
considered unchanged. 
5. 
Conclusions 
On  the  basis  of  the  assessment  of  the  dossier  as  described  in  this  assessment  report,  the  CPMP 
evaluated  in  depth  the  risk-benefit  balance  and  amended  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  in 
order  to  ensure  that  all  considerations  were  properly  reflected.  A  positive  opinion  was  adopted  for 
Simulect for the following indication: 
Simulect  is  indicated  for  the  prophylaxis  of  acute  organ  rejection  in  de  novo  allogeneic  renal 
transplantation  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients.  It  is  to  be  used  concomitantly  with  ciclosporin  for 
microemulsion-  and  corticosteroid-based  immunosuppression,  in  patients  with  panel  reactive 
antibodies  less  than  80%,  or  in  a  triple  maintenance  immunosuppressive  regimen  containing 
ciclosporin for microemulsion, corticosteroids and either azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy at the time of the first 5 year 
renewal, the CPMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Simulect remain 
favourable in the approved therapeutic indication. 
14/14 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
