17 February 2011 
EMA/CHMP/63302/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Simulect 
basiliximab 
EMEA/H/C/000207/II/57 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Invented name/name: 
Simulect 
International non-proprietary name/common 
basiliximab 
name: 
Indication summary (as last approved): 
Prophylaxis of acute organ rejection in de novo 
allogeneic renal transplantation in adult and 
paediatric patients (1-17 years) 
Marketing authorisation holder: 
Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
1.  Scope of the variation and changes to the dossier 
Scope of the variation: 
Update of section 5.1 of the SmPC with results 
from a clinical study in paediatric renal transplant 
recipients (DE01) as requested by the CHMP 
further to the assessment of FU2 033.1. In 
addition the PI is brought in line with latest QRD 
template and the list of the local representatives 
in the PL is amended. 
Product presentations affected: 
See Annex A to the Opinion 
Dossier modules/sections affected: 
Modules 1 and 2 
Product Information affected: 
Annex I and IIIB 
2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Step 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Step date 
02 December 2010  
19 December 2010 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
21 January 2011 
circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report 
11 February 2011 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
17 February 2011 
3.  Scientific discussion 
3.1.  Introduction 
Simulect is a specific immunosuppressant consisting of a murine/human chimeric monoclonal antibody 
(IgG1κ) that is directed against the interleukin-2 receptor α-chain (CD25 antigen), which is expressed 
on the surface of T-lymphocytes in response to antigenic challenge. Simulect specifically binds to the 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 2/5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
CD25 antigen on activated T-lymphocytes expressing the high activity interleukin-2 receptor and 
thereby prevents binding of inteleukin-2, the major signal for T-cell proliferation. Complete and 
consistent blocking of the interleukin-2 receptor is maintained as long as serum basiliximab levels 
exceed 0.2 µg/ml. 
Simulect is indicated for the prophylaxis of acute organ rejection in de novo allogeneic renal 
transplantation in adult and paediatric patients. It is to be used concomitantly with cyclosporine for 
microemulsion- and corticosteroid-based immunosuppression, in patients with panel reactive 
antibodies less than 80%, or in a triple maintenance immunosuppressive regimen containing 
cyclosporine for microemulsion, corticosteroids and either azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil. 
In this variation, the MAH proposes to make changes to section 5.1 of the summary of product 
characteristics of Simulect to include the results of the paediatric study DE01 as requested by the 
CHMP further to the assessment of FU2 033.1 (CHMP conclusions adopted on 06 September 2010). 
3.2.  Clinical aspects 
The paediatric indication for Simulect was approved on 1 December 2000. The key trial supporting the 
submission was study CHIB 152 (B152). This study included 41 paediatric de novo renal transplant 
patients from centres in Europe, the US and Canada. The main objective of the study was to define the 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics of basiliximab in the paediatric renal population 
and these results provided the support to the currently approved regimen. 
On 23 June 2009, the MAH submitted (FUM 033) two completed paediatric studies for Simulect in 
accordance with Article 45 of Regulation (EC) No. 1901/2006 as amended. In addition to the previously 
mentioned study B152, results from the study CCHI621ADE01 (DE01) were submitted. Study DE01 
was a 12-month, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multi-centre trial investigating 
Simulect in combination with CsA-ME, MMF and prednisone in the prevention of acute rejection in 
paediatric renal allograft recipients. It was a phase IV study designed by the principal investigators and 
the MAH’s affiliate in Germany, which conducted and analysed the study. 
The objective of the study was to demonstrate superiority of the treatment regime of cyclosporine 
microemulsion, MMF and prednisone in combination with basiliximab as compared to cyclosporine 
microemulsion, MMF and prednisone in the prevention of acute rejection during the first 6 months 
post-transplantation in paediatric renal allograft recipients. 
There were 202 patients randomized into the study, 104 randomized to Simulect and 98 to the placebo 
group. 
The primary efficacy analysis was performed as a survival analysis of the time to the first biopsy 
proven acute rejection (BPAR) or treatment failure (which was defined as graft loss, death or 
presumptive rejection) within the first 6 months post-transplant. The results of the study have been 
published in two peer-reviewed articles (Hoecker 2008, Offner 2008). 
The primary efficacy endpoint, time to first biopsy-proven acute rejection (BPAR) episode or treatment 
failure defined as graft loss, death or presumptive rejection within the first 6 months post 
transplantation, occurred in 16.7% of basiliximab-treated patients and 21.7% of placebo-treated 
patients (HR: 0.72, 90% CI: [0.42; 1.26]),. With regard to the incidence of the combined criteria 
“graft loss, death and/or clinical (biopsy-proven or presumptive) rejection” within 6 months after 
transplantation (primary efficacy variable) there was no statistically significant difference between the 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 3/5
 
 
 
 
 
 
two treatment groups (incidence rates [Kaplan-Meier estimates]: 26.0% [basiliximab] versus 23.9% 
[placebo], HR: 1.04, 90% CI: [0.64; 1.68], ITT population) when borderline rejections were included. 
When biopsies with the histological diagnosis “borderline” were not considered as rejections (additional 
analysis), the incidence rate of biopsy-proven acute rejections was lower under basiliximab compared 
to placebo (incidence rates [Kaplan-Meier estimates]: 9.4% [basiliximab] versus 17.4% [placebo], HR: 
0.50, 90% CI: [0.25; 0.99]). When borderline rejections were included, the rates for the separate 
analyses of the single events “biopsy-proven rejection” (incidence rates [Kaplan-Meier estimates] 
were: 20.8% [basiliximab] versus 19.6% [placebo], HR: 1.01, 90% CI: [0.59; 1.72]). 
Changes to the product information 
The MAH agreed to implement the following changes to section 5.1 of the SmPC for Simulect (new text 
in bold and underlined): 
Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties 
Paediatric population 
The efficacy and safety of basiliximab were evaluated in two paediatric studies. 
Basiliximab was used concomitantly with ciclosporin for microemulsion and steroids in an uncontrolled 
study in 41 paediatric de novo renal transplant recipients. Acute rejection occurred in 14.6% of 
patients by 6 months post-transplantation, and in 24.3% by 12 months. Overall the adverse event 
profile was consistent with general clinical experience in the paediatric renal transplantation population 
and with the profile in the controlled adult transplantation studies. 
A 12-month, randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicentre study investigated 
basiliximab in combination with ciclosporin for microemulsion, mycophenolate mofetil and 
steroids in paediatric renal allograft recipients. The primary objective of the study was to 
demonstrate superiority of this combination versus treatment with ciclosporin for 
microemulsion, mycophenolate mofetil and steroids in the prevention of acute rejections. Of 
the 202 patients, 104 were randomised to basiliximab and 98 to placebo. The primary 
efficacy endpoint, time to first biopsy-proven acute rejection (BPAR) episode or treatment 
failure defined as graft loss, death or presumptive rejection within the first 6 months post 
transplantation, occurred in 16.7% of basiliximab-treated patients and 21.7% of placebo-
treated patients. When borderline rejections were included in the primary efficacy endpoint, 
the rates were 26.0% and 23.9% respectively, with no statistically significant difference 
between the basiliximab- and placebo-treated groups (HR: 1.04, 90% CI: [0,64; 1.68]). The 
rates of BPAR were 9.4% in the basiliximab group and 17.4% in the placebo group (HR: 
0.50, 90% CI: [0.25; 0.99]). When borderline rejections were included, the rates were 
20.8% and 19.6% respectively (HR: 1.01, 90% CI: [0.59; 1.72]). The overall safety profiles 
were similar in both groups. The incidence rates of adverse events and the pattern of 
adverse events were comparable between the two treatment groups and to be expected for 
the treatment regimens and the underlying diseases. 
The MAH has also updated the product information in accordance with the latest QRD templates which 
was agreed by the CHMP. 
Discussion 
Further to the assessment of FUM 33 in September 2009, the CHMP requested the MAH to provide a 
response document including supplementary tables, figures and listings for study report DE01 and to 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 4/5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
comprehensively discuss the benefit and risk of basiliximab in paediatric kidney transplantation. 
Following this recommendation the MAH reanalysed the data from the paediatric study DE01. Further 
to the assessment of the data provided (FU2 33.1) the CHMP concluded that the MAH provided a 
comprehensive discussion on the benefit and risk of basiliximab in paediatric kidney transplantation. 
Apart from deficiencies in the clinical trial conduct and analysis one major problem is the lack of 
understanding of the relevance of “borderline” changes in the biopsies. Exclusion of borderline cases 
from the definition of acute rejection leads to clearer benefit of basiliximab therapy, inclusion of 
borderline cases decreases the differences between both treatment arms. Of note, inclusion of 
borderline cases and analysing the Kaplan-Meier curves for the primary composite endpoint (survival, 
graft survival, acute rejection) show merely a delay of events and an aligning of the curves at a later 
time point.  
The safety is difficult to evaluate as multiple confounding factors are present in this patient population. 
The imbalance in the cases of death between both treatment arms is of concern, as a contribution of 
basiliximab on the causes of death cannot be excluded. Because of its mechanism of action it is 
expected that basiliximab contributes to the overall immunosuppression and might therefore have 
contributed to the infections that were observed in the fatal cases. However, it is unknown how long 
this immunosuppressive effect persists, whether any longer lasting changes are impacted on the 
immune system and therefore it is unknown if the late occurring deaths have any connection with 
basiliximab therapy at a considerably earlier time. Even less is known for the impact on a potentially 
immature immune system and the impact of basiliximab on naturally occurring T regulatory cells, 
which also carry CD25. 
Both randomised trials of Simulect in the paediatric population failed to meet their primary endpoint, 
the one discussed in this FUM with an approved combination of immunosuppressives, a second one 
with tacrolimus as part of another commonly used regimen. The MAH makes the point that these trials 
were underpowered and this is agreed to by the CHMP. 
The CHMP agrees that the data in summary indicate that basiliximab may reduce the rate of acute 
biopsy proven rejection but a proof is lacking. It also remains unclear whether the assumed reduction 
of biopsy proven rejection translates into a longer lasting benefit for the patient. This is similar to the 
situation in adults but the prevention of acute rejections has been accepted as a treatment goal in 
itself since it is associated with a better long term outcome.  
Taken together the benefit risk balance appears to be similar in children and adults. 
As requested by the CHMP, the results from the DE01 trial (both analyses (with and without borderline 
cases)) have been incorporated in a short version in the SmPC. The changes to section 5.1 of the 
SmPC are considered acceptable. 
4.  Conclusion 
On 17 February 2011 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 45 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 5/5
 
 
 
 
 
