ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to 20 mg of bedaquiline.
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to 100 mg of bedaquiline.
Excipient with known effect
Each tablet contains 145 mg of lactose (as monohydrate).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
Tablet.
Uncoated, white to almost white oblong tablet (12.0 mm long x 5.7 mm wide), with score line on both 
sides, debossed with “2” and “0” on one side and plain on other side. 
The tablet can be divided into equal doses.
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
Tablet.
Uncoated, white to almost white round biconvex tablet, 11 mm in diameter, with debossing of "T" 
over "207" on one side and "100" on the other side.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
SIRTURO is indicated for use as part of an appropriate combination regimen for pulmonary 
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in adult and paediatric patients (5 years to less than 
18 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg) when an effective treatment regimen cannot otherwise be 
composed for reasons of resistance or tolerability (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1).
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Treatment with SIRTURO should be initiated and monitored by a physician experienced in the 
management of multi-drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
2
Consideration should be given to WHO guidelines when selecting the appropriate combination 
regimen.
Only use SIRTURO in combination with other medicinal products to which the patient’s MDR-TB 
isolate has been shown to be susceptible in vitro, or is likely to be susceptible. Refer to the Summary 
of Product Characteristics of the medicinal products used in combination with SIRTURO for their 
specific dosing recommendations.
It is recommended that SIRTURO is administered by directly observed therapy (DOT).
Posology
Adult Patients
The recommended dosage for SIRTURO in adult (18 years and older) patients is shown in Table 1.
Table 1:
Population
Recommended Dosage of SIRTURO in Adult Patients
Dosing Recommendation
Weeks 1 to 2
400 mg orally once daily
Weeks 3 to 24a
200 mg orally three times per 
week
Adults (18 years and older)
a = At least 48 hours between doses
The total duration of treatment with SIRTURO is 24 weeks. SIRTURO should be taken with food. 
Paediatric Patients
The recommended dosage for SIRTURO in paediatric patients (5 years to less than 18 years of age) is 
based on body weight and shown in Table 2.
Table 2:
Recommended Dosage of SIRTURO in Paediatric Patients (5 years to less than 
18 years of age)
Body Weight
Dosage Recommendation
Weeks 1 to 2
Weeks 3 to 24a
Greater than or equal to 15 kg 
to less than 20 kg
160 mg orally once daily
80 mg orally three times per week
Greater than or equal to 20 kg 
to less than 30 kg
200 mg orally once daily
100 mg orally three times per week
Greater than or equal to 30 kg 400 mg orally once daily
200 mg orally three times per week
a = At least 48 hours between doses
The total duration of treatment with SIRTURO is 24 weeks. SIRTURO should be taken with food.
Treatment duration
The total duration of treatment with SIRTURO is 24 weeks. Data on longer treatment duration is very 
limited. When treatment with SIRTURO is considered necessary beyond 24 weeks to obtain a curative 
treatment, a longer duration of therapy may be considered under close safety surveillance (see 
section 4.8).
3
Missed doses
Patients should be advised to take SIRTURO exactly as prescribed and to complete the full course of 
therapy.
If a dose is missed during the first two weeks of treatment, patients should not make up the missed 
dose, but should continue the usual dosing schedule.
If a dose is missed from week three onwards, patients should take the missed dose as soon as possible
and then resume the three times a week regimen. The total dose of SIRTURO during a 7 day period 
should not exceed the recommended weekly dose (with at least 24 hours between each intake).
Elderly population (≥ 65 years of age)
There is limited clinical data (n = 2) on the use of SIRTURO in elderly patients.
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary for SIRTURO in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment
(see section 5.2). SIRTURO should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment 
(see section 5.2). SIRTURO has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and is not 
recommended in this population.
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. In patients with 
severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) or end-stage renal disease requiring 
haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis, SIRTURO should be used with caution (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of SIRTURO in children aged < 5 years or weighing less than 15 kg have not 
yet been established.
No data are available.
SIRTURO may be included in the treatment regimen for children greater than or equal to 5 years of 
age and weighing at least 15 kg with confirmed or with probable MDR-TB disease which is diagnosed 
based on clinical signs and symptoms of pulmonary MDR-TB, appropriate epidemiological context, 
and in line with international/local guidelines (see section 4.1).
Method of administration
SIRTURO should be taken orally with food, as administration with food increases oral bioavailability 
by about 2-fold (see section 5.2). There is one method of administration of SIRTURO 100 mg tablet 
and four different options for administration of SIRTURO 20 mg tablet. Each administration method 
requires SIRTURO to be taken with food.
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets 
Administration of 20 mg Tablets to Patients who Can Swallow Intact Tablets:
SIRTURO 20 mg tablet should be swallowed whole, or in two equal halves divided along the 
functional score line, with water and taken with food
Administration of 20 mg Tablets to Patients who Cannot Swallow Intact Tablets:
Dispersed in Water and Administered with Beverage or Soft Food
For patients who have difficulty swallowing intact tablets, SIRTURO 20 mg tablet can be dispersed in 
water and administered. To aid with administration, the dispersed mixture in water can be further 
mixed with a beverage (e.g., water, milk product, apple juice, orange juice, cranberry juice or 
carbonated beverage) or soft food (e.g., yoghurt, apple sauce, mashed banana or porridge) as follows:


Disperse tablets in water (maximum of 5 tablets in 5 mL of water) in a drinking cup. 
Mix the contents of the cup well until the tablets are completely dispersed and then orally 
administer the contents of the cup immediately with food. To aid with administration, the 
4
dispersed mixture in water can be further mixed with at least 5 mL of beverage or 1 teaspoonful 
of soft food and then orally administer the contents of the cup immediately. 
If the total dose requires more than 5 tablets, repeat the above preparation steps with the 
appropriate number of additional tablets until the desired dose is reached. 
Ensure no tablet residue is left in the cup, rinse with beverage or add more soft food and orally 
administer the contents of the cup immediately.


Crushed and Mixed with Soft Food
SIRTURO 20 mg tablet can be crushed and mixed with soft food (e.g., yoghurt, apple sauce, mashed 
banana or porridge) immediately prior to use and administered orally. Ensure no tablet residue is left 
in container, add more soft food and administer the contents immediately.
Refer to section 6.6 for information on administration through a feeding tube.
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets should be swallowed whole with water.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
There are no clinical data on the use of SIRTURO to treat:



extra-pulmonary tuberculosis (e.g. central nervous system, bone)
infections due to mycobacterial species other than Mycobacterium tuberculosis
latent infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis
There are no clinical data on the use of SIRTURO as part of combination regimens used to treat 
drug-susceptible Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Resistance to bedaquiline
Bedaquiline must only be used in an appropriate combination regimen for MDR-TB treatment as 
recommended by official guidelines, such as from WHO, to prevent development of resistance to 
bedaquiline.
Mortality
In the 120-week C208 trial in adults where SIRTURO was administered for 24 weeks in combination 
with a background regimen, more deaths occurred in the SIRTURO treatment group than in the 
placebo group (see section 5.1). The imbalance in deaths is unexplained; no evidence has been found 
for a causal relationship with SIRTURO treatment. For additional information on deaths in the C209 
trial, see section 5.1.
Cardiovascular safety
Bedaquiline prolongs the QTc interval. An electrocardiogram should be obtained before initiation of 
treatment and at least monthly after starting treatment with bedaquiline. Serum potassium, calcium, 
and magnesium should be obtained at baseline and corrected if abnormal. Follow-up monitoring of 
electrolytes should be performed if QT prolongation is detected (see sections 4.5 and 4.8).
When bedaquiline is co-administered with other medicinal products that prolong the QTc interval
(including delamanid and levofloxacin), an additive or synergistic effect on QT prolongation cannot be 
excluded (see section 4.5). Caution is recommended when prescribing bedaquiline concomitantly with 
medicinal products with a known risk of QT prolongation. In the event that co-administration of such 
medicinal products with bedaquiline is necessary, clinical monitoring, including frequent 
electrocardiogram assessment, is recommended.
5
In the event that co-administration of clofazimine with bedaquiline is necessary, clinical monitoring,
including frequent electrocardiogram assessment, is recommended (see section 4.5).
SIRTURO treatment initiation is not recommended in patients with the following, unless the benefits 
of bedaquiline are considered to outweigh the potential risks:


Heart failure;
QT interval as corrected by the Fridericia method (QTcF) > 450 ms (confirmed by repeat
electrocardiogram);
A personal or family history of congenital QT prolongation;
A history of or ongoing hypothyroidism;
A history of or ongoing bradyarrhythmia;
A history of Torsade de Pointes;
Concomitant administration of fluoroquinolone antibiotics that have a potential for significant 
QT prolongation (i.e., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin and sparfloxacin).
Hypokalemia






SIRTURO treatment must be discontinued if the patient develops:


Clinically significant ventricular arrhythmia
A QTcF interval of > 500 ms (confirmed by repeat electrocardiogram).
If syncope occurs, an electrocardiogram should be obtained to detect any QT prolongation.
Hepatic safety
Increases in transaminases or aminotransferase elevations accompanied by total bilirubin ≥ 2x ULN
were seen in clinical trials in adult and paediatric patients during administration of SIRTURO with the 
background regimen (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored throughout the treatment course, 
since the increases in liver enzymes were slow to appear and increased gradually during the 24 weeks. 
Monitor symptoms and laboratory tests (ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin) at baseline, 
monthly while on treatment, and as needed. If AST or ALT exceeds 5 times the upper limit of normal 
then the regimen should be reviewed and SIRTURO and/or any hepatotoxic background medicinal 
product should be discontinued.
Other hepatotoxic medicinal products and alcohol should be avoided while on SIRTURO, especially 
in patients with diminished hepatic reserve.
Paediatric patients
In adolescents weighing between 30 and 40 kg, average exposure is predicted to be higher compared 
to adult patients (see section 5.2). This may be associated with an increased risk of QT prolongation or 
hepatotoxicity.
Interactions with other medicinal products
CYP3A4 inducers
Bedaquiline is metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-administration of bedaquiline and medicinal products that 
induce CYP3A4 may decrease bedaquiline plasma concentrations and reduce its therapeutic effect. 
Co-administration of bedaquiline and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers used systemically should,
therefore, be avoided (see section 4.5).
CYP3A4 inhibitors
Co-administration of bedaquiline and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the 
systemic exposure to bedaquiline, which could potentially increase the risk of adverse reactions (see 
section 4.5). Therefore, the combination of bedaquiline and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors 
used systemically for more than 14 consecutive days should be avoided. If co-administration is 
6
required, more frequent electrocardiogram monitoring and monitoring of transaminases is 
recommended.
Patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
There are no clinical data on the safety and efficacy of bedaquiline when co-administered with 
antiretroviral agents.
There are only limited clinical data on the efficacy of bedaquiline in HIV-infected adult patients not 
receiving antiretroviral (ARV) therapy. Those patients studied all had CD4+ cell counts greater than 
250 x 106 cells/l (N = 22; see section 4.5).
Lactose intolerance and lactase deficiency
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
SIRTURO 100 mg tablet contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take SIRTURO 
100 mg tablet.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The elimination of bedaquiline has not been fully characterised in vivo. CYP3A4 is the major CYP 
isoenzyme involved in vitro in the metabolism of bedaquiline and the formation of the 
N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2). Urinary excretion of bedaquiline is negligible. Bedaquiline and 
M2 are not substrates or inhibitors of P-glycoprotein.
CYP3A4 inducers
Bedaquiline exposure may be reduced during co-administration with inducers of CYP3A4.
In an interaction study of single-dose bedaquiline and once daily rifampicin (strong inducer) in healthy 
adult subjects, the exposure (AUC) to bedaquiline was reduced by 52% [90% CI (-57; -46)]. Due to 
the possibility of a reduction of the therapeutic effect of bedaquiline due to a decrease in systemic 
exposure, co-administration of bedaquiline and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. efavirenz, 
etravirine, rifamycins including rifampicin, rifapentine and rifabutin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, St. 
John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum)) used systemically should be avoided.
CYP3A4 inhibitors
Bedaquiline exposure may be increased during co-administration with inhibitors of CYP3A4.
The short-term co-administration of bedaquiline and ketoconazole (potent CYP3A4 inhibitor) in 
healthy adult subjects increased the exposure (AUC) to bedaquiline by 22% [90% CI (12; 32)]. A 
more pronounced effect on bedaquiline may be observed during prolonged co-administration of 
ketoconazole or other inhibitors of CYP3A4.
There are no safety data from bedaquiline multiple dose trials which utilised a dose higher than the 
indicated dose. Due to the potential risk of adverse reactions due to an increase in systemic exposure, 
prolonged co-administration of bedaquiline and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. 
ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, fluconazole, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, ritonavir) used systemically 
for more than 14 consecutive days should be avoided. If co-administration is required, more frequent 
electrocardiogram monitoring and monitoring of transaminases is recommended (see section 4.4).
Other antituberculosis medicinal products
The short-term co-administration of bedaquiline with isoniazid/pyrazinamide in healthy adult subjects
did not result in clinically relevant changes in the exposure (AUC) to bedaquiline, isoniazid or 
7
pyrazinamide. No dose-adjustment of isoniazid or pyrazinamide is required during co-administration
with bedaquiline.
In a placebo-controlled clinical study in patients with multi-drug resistant Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis, no major impact of co-administration of bedaquiline on the pharmacokinetics of 
ethambutol, kanamycin, pyrazinamide, ofloxacin or cycloserine was observed.
Antiretroviral medicinal products
In an interaction study of single-dose bedaquiline and multiple-dose lopinavir/ritonavir in adults, 
exposure (AUC) to bedaquiline was increased by 22% [90% CI (11; 34)]. A more pronounced effect 
on bedaquiline plasma exposures may be observed during prolonged co-administration with
lopinavir/ritonavir. Published data on adult patients treated with bedaquiline as part of therapy for 
drug-resistant TB and lopinavir/ritonavir-based ART have shown that bedaquiline exposure (AUC) 
over 48 hours was increased approximately 2 fold. This increase is likely due to ritonavir. If the 
benefit outweighs the risk, SIRTURO may be used with caution when co-administered with 
lopinavir/ritonavir. Increases in plasma exposure to bedaquiline would be expected when it is 
co-administered with other ritonavir-boosted HIV protease inhibitors. Of note, no change in 
bedaquiline dosing is recommended in case of co-treatment with lopinavir/ritonavir or other ritonavir-
boosted HIV protease inhibitors. There are no data to support a lowered bedaquiline dose in such 
circumstances.
Co-administration of single-dose bedaquiline and multiple-dose nevirapine in adults did not result in 
clinically relevant changes in the exposure to bedaquiline. Clinical data on co-administration of 
bedaquiline and antiretroviral agents in adult patients co-infected with human immunodeficiency virus
and multi-drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis are not available (see section 4.4). Efavirenz is a 
moderate inducer of CYP3A4 activity and co-administration with bedaquiline may result in reduced 
bedaquiline exposure and loss of activity, and is, therefore, not recommended.
QT interval prolonging medicinal products
There is limited information available on the potential for a pharmacodynamic interaction between 
bedaquiline and medicinal products that prolong the QT interval. In an interaction study of bedaquiline 
and ketoconazole in adults, a greater effect on QTc was observed after repeated dosing with 
bedaquiline and ketoconazole in combination than after repeated dosing with the individual medicinal 
products. An additive or synergistic effect on QT prolongation of bedaquiline when co-administered 
with other medicinal products that prolong the QT interval cannot be excluded and frequent 
monitoring is recommended (see section 4.4).
QT interval and concomitant clofazimine use
In an open label Phase IIb trial, mean increases in QTcF were larger in the 17 adult subjects who were 
using concomitant clofazimine at week 24 (mean change from reference of 31.9 ms) than in subjects 
who were not using concomitant clofazimine at week 24 (mean change from reference of 12.3 ms) 
(see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are limited data on the use of SIRTURO in pregnant women. Animal studies do not indicate 
direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).
8
As a precautionary measure, avoid the use of SIRTURO during pregnancy unless the benefit of 
therapy is considered to outweigh the risks.
Breast-feeding
Bedaquiline is excreted in human milk. Limited published literature reports higher bedaquiline 
concentrations in human milk than in maternal plasma. In one breastfed infant, a single random 
plasma bedaquiline concentration was similar to maternal plasma concentration; the mother had a high 
concentration of bedaquiline in breast milk, with a milk to plasma ratio of 14:1. This is consistent with 
data from animal studies (see section 5.3). Available information indicates that systemic exposure in 
breastfed infants may reach levels similar to those observed in the breastfeeding mothers treated with 
bedaquiline. The clinical consequence of this exposure is unknown. Women who are treated with 
bedaquiline should not breastfeed.
Fertility
No human data on the effect of bedaquiline on fertility are available. In female rats, there was no 
effect on mating or fertility with bedaquiline treatment, however some effects were observed in male 
rats (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Bedaquiline may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness has been 
reported in some patients taking bedaquiline and should be considered when assessing a patient’s
ability to drive or operate machinery (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Adverse drug reactions for SIRTURO were identified from pooled Phase IIb clinical trial data (both 
controlled and uncontrolled, C208 and C209) containing 335 adult patients who received SIRTURO in 
combination with a background regimen of tuberculosis medicinal products. The basis of assessment 
of causality between the adverse drug reactions and SIRTURO was not restricted to these trials, but 
also on review of the pooled Phase I and Phase IIa safety data in adults. The most frequent adverse 
drug reactions (> 10.0% of patients) during treatment with SIRTURO in the controlled trials were 
nausea (35.3% in the SIRTURO group vs 25.7% in the placebo group), arthralgia (29.4% vs 20.0%), 
headache (23.5% vs 11.4%), vomiting (20.6% vs 22.9%) and dizziness (12.7% vs 11.4%). Refer to the 
Summary of Product Characteristics of the medicinal products used in combination with SIRTURO 
for their respective adverse reactions.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse drug reactions to SIRTURO reported from controlled trials in 102 adult patients treated with 
SIRTURO are presented in the table below.
Adverse drug reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency. Frequency categories 
are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) and uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 
to < 1/100).
System Organ Class (SOC) 
Nervous system disorders
Cardiac disorders
Frequency Category
Very Common
Common
Gastrointestinal disorders
Hepatobiliary disorders
Musculoskeletal and 
Very Common
Common
Common
Very Common
9
ADRs
Headache, dizziness
Electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged
Nausea, vomiting
Diarrhoea
Transaminases increased*
Arthralgia
connective tissue disorders
* Terms represented by ‘transaminases increased’ included AST increased, ALT increased, hepatic enzyme increased, 
Common
Myalgia
hepatic function abnormal, and transaminases increased (see section below).
Description of selected adverse reactions
Cardiovascular
In the controlled Phase IIb study (C208), mean increases from baseline values in QTcF were observed 
from the first on-treatment assessment onwards (9.9 ms at week 1 for SIRTURO and 3.5 ms for 
placebo). The largest mean increase from baseline values in QTcF during the 24 weeks of SIRTURO
treatment was 15.7 ms (at week 18). After the end of SIRTURO treatment (i.e. after week 24), QTcF 
increases in the SIRTURO group gradually became less pronounced. The largest mean increase from 
baseline values in QTcF in the placebo group during the first 24 weeks was 6.2 ms (also at week 18) 
(see section 4.4).
In the Phase IIb, open label study (C209), where patients with no treatment options received other 
QT-prolonging medicinal products used to treat tuberculosis, including clofazimine, concurrent use 
with SIRTURO resulted in additive QT prolongation, proportional to the number of QT prolonging 
medicinal products in the treatment regimen.
Patients receiving SIRTURO alone with no other QT prolonging medicinal product developed a 
maximal mean QTcF increase over baseline of 23.7 ms with no QT duration in excess of 480 ms, 
whereas patients with at least 2 other QT prolonging medicinal products developed a maximal mean 
QTcF prolongation of 30.7 ms over baseline, resulting in a QTcF duration in excess of 500 ms in one 
patient.
There were no documented cases of Torsade de Pointes in the safety database (see section 4.4). See
section 4.5, QT interval and concomitant clofazimine use, for further information regarding patients 
using clofazimine concomitantly.
Increased transaminases
In study C208 (stage 1 and 2), aminotransferase elevations of at least 3 x ULN developed more 
frequently in the SIRTURO treatment group (11/102 [10.8%] versus 6/105 [5.7%]) in the placebo 
treatment group. In the SIRTURO treatment group, the majority of these increases occurred 
throughout the 24 weeks of treatment and were reversible. During the investigational phase in stage 2 
of study C208, increased aminotransferases were reported in 7/79 (8.9%) patients in the SIRTURO 
treatment group compared to 1/81 (1.2%) in the placebo treatment group.
Paediatric population
The safety assessment of bedaquiline is based on data from 30 paediatric patients greater than or equal 
to 5 years of age with confirmed or probable MDR-TB infection (see section 5.1).
Overall, there was no indication of any differences in the safety profile in adolescents aged 14 years to 
less than 18 years (N=15) compared to that observed in the adult population. 
In paediatric patients aged 5 years to less than 11 years (N=15), the most common adverse drug 
reactions were related to elevations in liver enzymes (5/15, 33%), reported as ALT/AST increased and 
hepatotoxicity; hepatotoxicity led to discontinuation of SIRTURO in three patients. Elevations in liver 
enzymes were reversible upon discontinuation of SIRTURO and background regimen. Among these 
15 paediatric patients, no deaths occurred during treatment with SIRTURO.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
10
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Cases of intentional or accidental acute overdose with bedaquiline were not reported during clinical 
trials. In a study in 44 healthy adult subjects receiving a single 800 mg dose of SIRTURO, adverse 
reactions were consistent with those observed in clinical studies at the recommended dose (see 
section 4.8).
There is no experience with the treatment of acute overdose with SIRTURO. General measures to 
support basic vital functions including monitoring of vital signs and electrocardiogram (QT interval) 
monitoring should be taken in case of deliberate or accidental overdose. Further management should 
be as clinically indicated or as recommended by the national poisons centre, where available. Since 
bedaquiline is highly protein-bound, dialysis is not likely to significantly remove bedaquiline from 
plasma. Clinical monitoring should be considered.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycobacterials, drugs for treatment of tuberculosis, ATC code: 
J04AK05
Mechanism of action
Bedaquiline is a diarylquinoline. Bedaquiline specifically inhibits mycobacterial ATP (adenosine 
5'-triphosphate) synthase, an essential enzyme for the generation of energy in Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis. The inhibition of ATP synthase leads to bactericidal effects for both replicating and 
non-replicating tubercle bacilli.
Pharmacodynamic effects
Bedaquiline has activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis with a minimal inhibitory concentration 
(MIC) for drug-sensitive as well as drug-resistant strains (multi-drug resistant including pre-
extensively drug resistant strains, extensively drug resistant strains) in the range of ≤ 0.008-0.12 mg/l. 
The N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2) is not thought to contribute significantly to clinical efficacy 
given its lower average exposure (23% to 31%) in humans and lower antimycobacterial activity (3- to 
6-fold lower) compared to the parent compound.
The intracellular bactericidal activity of bedaquiline in primary peritoneal macrophages and in a 
macrophage-like cell line was greater than its extracellular activity. Bedaquiline is also bactericidal 
against dormant (non-replicating) tubercle bacilli. In the mouse model for TB infection, bedaquiline
has demonstrated bactericidal and sterilizing activities.
Bedaquiline is bacteriostatic for many non-tuberculous mycobacterial species. Mycobacterium xenopi, 
Mycobacterium novocastrense, Mycobacterium shimoidei and non-mycobacterial species are 
considered inherently resistant to bedaquiline.
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship
Within the concentration range achieved with the therapeutic dose, no 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship was observed in patients.
11
Mechanisms of resistance
Acquired resistance mechanisms that affect bedaquiline MICs include mutations in the atpE gene, 
which codes for the ATP synthase target, and in the Rv0678 gene, which regulates the expression of 
the MmpS5-MmpL5 efflux pump. Target-based mutations generated in preclinical studies lead to 8- to 
133-fold increases in bedaquiline MIC, resulting in MICs ranging from 0.25 to 4 mg/l. Efflux-based 
mutations have been seen in preclinical and clinical isolates. These lead to 2- to 8-fold increases in 
bedaquiline MICs, resulting in bedaquiline MICs ranging from 0.25 to 0.5 mg/l. The majority of 
isolates that are phenotypically resistant to bedaquiline are cross-resistant to clofazimine. Isolates that 
are resistant to clofazimine can still be susceptible to bedaquiline.
The impact of high baseline bedaquiline MICs, the presence of Rv0678 based mutations at baseline, 
and/or increased post-baseline bedaquiline MICs on microbiologic outcomes is unclear because of the 
low incidence of such cases in the Phase II trials.
Susceptibility testing breakpoints
When available, the clinical microbiology laboratory should provide the physician with the results of
in vitro susceptibility test results for antimicrobial medicinal products used in resident hospitals as 
periodic reports that describe the susceptibility profile of nosocomial and community-acquired 
pathogens. These reports should aid the physician in selecting a combination of antibacterial medicinal
products for treatment.
Breakpoints
Minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) breakpoints are as follows:
0.25 mg/l
Epidemiological Cut-Off (ECOFF)
Clinical Breakpoints
S ≤ 0.25 mg/l; R > 0.25 mg/l
S = susceptible
R = resistant
Commonly susceptible species
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
Inherently resistant organisms
Mycobacterium xenopi
Mycobacterium novocastrense
Mycobacterium shimoidei
Non-mycobacterial species
Clinical efficacy and safety
The following definitions apply for resistance categories used:
Multi-drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MDRH&R-TB): isolate resistant to at least isoniazid 
and rifampicin, but susceptible to fluoroquinolones and second line injectable agents.
Pre-extensively drug resistant tuberculosis (pre-XDR-TB): isolate resistant to isoniazid, rifampicin, 
and either any fluoroquinolone or at least one second line injectable agent (but not to both a 
fluoroquinolone and a second line injectable agent).
Extensively drug resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB): isolate resistant to isoniazid, rifampicin, any 
fluoroquinolone, and at least one second line injectable agent.
A Phase IIb, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomised trial (C208) evaluated the antibacterial 
activity, safety, and tolerability of SIRTURO in newly diagnosed adult patients with sputum 
smear-positive pulmonary MDRH&R- and pre-XDR-TB. Patients received SIRTURO (n = 79) or 
placebo (n = 81) for 24 weeks, both in combination with a preferred 5-drug background regimen (BR) 
12
consisting of ethionamide, kanamycin, pyrazinamide, ofloxacin, and cycloserine/terizidone. After the 
24-week investigational period, the background regimen was continued to complete 18 to 24 months 
of total multi-drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis treatment. A final evaluation was conducted 
at Week 120. Main demographics were as follows: 63.1% were males, median age 34 years, 35% were 
Black, and 15% were HIV positive. Cavitation in one lung was seen in 58% of patients, and in both 
lungs in 16%. For patients with full characterisation of resistance status, 76% (84/111) were infected 
with an MDRH&R-TB strain and 24% (27/111) with a pre-XDR-TB strain.
SIRTURO was administered as 400 mg once daily for the first 2 weeks, and as 200 mg 3 times/week 
for the following 22 weeks.
The primary outcome parameter was the time to sputum culture conversion (i.e. the interval between 
the first SIRTURO intake and the first of two consecutive negative liquid cultures from sputum 
collected at least 25 days apart) during treatment with SIRTURO or placebo (median time to 
conversion was 83 days for the SIRTURO group, 125 days for the placebo group (hazard ratio, 95% 
CI: 2.44 [1.57; 3.80]), p < 0.0001).
In the SIRTURO group, no or only minor differences in time to culture conversion and culture 
conversion rates were observed between patients with pre-XDR-TB and patients with MDRH&R-TB.
Response rates at week 24 and week 120 (i.e. around 6 months after stopping all therapy) are
presented in table 3.
Culture conversion Status
Table 3:
Culture Conversion 
Status, n (%)
Overall responder at 
Week 24
Patients with 
MDRH&R-TB
Patients infected 
with a pre-XDR-TB
Overall 
non-responder* at 
Week 24
Overall responder at 
Week 120
Patients with 
MDRH&R-TB
Patients infected 
with pre-XDR-TB
Overall 
non-responder* at 
Week 120
Failure to convert
Relapse†
Discontinued but 
converted
N
66
39
15
66
66
39#
15#
66
66
66
66
mITT population
SIRTURO/BR
52 (78.8%)
32 (82.1%)
11 (73.3%)
14 (21.2%)
41 (62.1%)
27 (69.2%)
9 (60.0%)
25 (37.9%)
8 (12.1%)
6 (9.1%)
11 (16.7%)
N
66
45
12
66
66
46# §
12#
66
66
66
66
Placebo/BR
38 (57.6%)
28 (62.2%)
4 (33.3%)
28 (42.4%)
29 (43.9%)
20 (43.5%)
5 (41.7%)
37 (56.1%)
15 (22.7%)
10 (15.2%)
12 (18.2%)
* Patients who died during the trial or discontinued the trial were considered as non-responders.
† Relapse was defined in the trial as having a positive sputum culture after or during treatment following prior sputum 
culture conversion.
# Extent of resistance based on central laboratory drug susceptibility testing results was not available for 20 subjects in 
the mITT population (12 in the SIRTURO group and 8 in the placebo group). These subjects were excluded from the 
subgroup analysis by extent of resistance of M tuberculosis strain.
§ Central laboratory drug susceptibility testing results became available for one additional placebo subject after the 
week 24 interim analysis.
13
Study C209 evaluated the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of 24 weeks treatment with open-label
SIRTURO as part of an individualized treatment regimen in 233 adult patients who were sputum 
smear positive within 6 months prior to screening. This study included patients of all three resistance 
categories (MDRH&R-, pre-XDR- and XDR-TB).
The primary efficacy endpoint was the time to sputum culture conversion during treatment with 
SIRTURO (median 57 days, for 205 patients with sufficient data). At week 24, sputum culture 
conversion was seen in 163/205 (79.5%) patients. Conversion rates at week 24 were highest (87.1%; 
81/93) in patients with MDRH&R-TB, 77.3% (34/44) in pre-XDR-TB patients and lowest (54.1%; 
20/37) in XDR-TB patients. Extent of resistance based on central laboratory drug susceptibility testing 
results was not available for 32 subjects in the mITT population. These subjects were excluded from 
the subgroup analysis by extent of resistance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain.
At week 120, sputum culture conversion was seen in 148/205 (72.2%) patients. Conversion rates at 
week 120 were highest (73.1%; 68/93) in patients with MDRH&R-TB, 70.5% (31/44) in pre-XDR-TB 
patients and lowest (62.2%; 23/37) in XDR-TB patients.
At both week 24 and week 120, responder rates were higher for patients on 3 or more active 
substances (in vitro) in their background regimen.
Of the 163 patients who were responders at week 24, 139 patients (85.3%) were still responders at 
week 120. Twenty-four of these 24-week responders (14.7%) were considered non-responders at 
week 120, of which 19 patients had prematurely discontinued the trial while being culture converted 
and 5 patients had experienced relapse. Of the 42 patients who were non-responders at week 24, 
confirmed culture conversion after week 24 (i.e., after bedaquiline dosing ended but the background 
regimen was continued) occurred in 9 patients (21.4%) and was maintained at week 120.
Mortality
In the randomised Phase IIb study (C208, stage 2) a higher rate of deaths was seen in the SIRTURO 
treatment group (12.7%; 10/79 patients) compared to the placebo treatment group (3.7%; 3/81 
patients). One death in the SIRTURO group and one death in the placebo group were reported after the 
week 120 window. In the SIRTURO group, all of the five deaths due to tuberculosis occurred in 
patients whose sputum culture status at last visit was ‘not converted’. The causes of death in the 
remaining SIRTURO patients were alcohol poisoning, hepatitis/hepatic cirrhosis, septic 
shock/peritonitis, cerebrovascular accident and motor vehicle accident. One of the ten deaths in the 
SIRTURO group (due to alcohol poisoning) occurred during the 24 week treatment period. The other 
nine deaths among those treated with SIRTURO occurred after completion of treatment with this agent 
(range 86 911 days post SIRTURO; median 344 days). The observed imbalance in deaths between the 
two treatment groups is unexplained. No discernible pattern between death and sputum culture 
conversion, relapse, sensitivity to other medicinal products used to treat tuberculosis, human 
immunodeficiency virus status, or severity of disease could be observed. During the trial, there was no 
evidence of antecedent significant QT prolongation or clinically significant dysrhythmia in any of the 
patients that died.
In the Phase IIb, open label study (C209), 6.9% (16/233) patients died. The most common cause of 
death as reported by the investigator was tuberculosis (9 patients). All but one patients who died of 
tuberculosis had not converted or had relapsed. The causes of death in the remaining patients varied.
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of SIRTURO in combination with a background regimen 
were evaluated in trial C211, a single-arm, open-label, multi-cohort Phase II trial in 30 patients with 
confirmed or probable MDR-TB infection.
14
Paediatric patients (12 years to less than 18 years of age)
Fifteen patients had a median age of 16 years (range: 14-17 years), weighed 38 to 75 kg, and were 
80% female, 53.3% Black and 13.3% Asian. The patients were to complete at least 24 weeks of 
treatment with SIRTURO administered as 400 mg once daily for the first 2 weeks and 200 mg 
3 times/week for the following 22 weeks using 100 mg tablets.
In the subset of patients with culture positive pulmonary MDR-TB at baseline, treatment with a 
regimen including bedaquiline resulted in conversion to a negative culture in 75.0% (6/8 
microbiologically evaluable patients) at week 24.
Paediatric patients (5 years to less than 12 years of age)
Fifteen patients had a median age of 7 years (range: 5-10 years), weighed 14 to 36 kg, and were 60% 
female, 60% Black, 33% White and 7% Asian. The patients were to complete at least 24 weeks of 
treatment with SIRTURO administered as 200 mg once daily for the first 2 weeks and 100 mg 
3 times/week for the following 22 weeks using 20 mg tablets.
In the subset of patients with culture positive pulmonary MDR-TB at baseline, treatment with a 
regimen including bedaquiline resulted in conversion to a negative culture in 100% 
(3/3 microbiologically evaluable patients) at week 24.
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
SIRTURO in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of multi-drug resistant 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme.
This means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited.
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicinal product at least every 
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetic properties of bedaquiline have been evaluated in adult healthy subjects and in 
multi-drug resistant tuberculosis-infected patients 5 years of age and older. Exposure to bedaquiline 
was lower in multi-drug resistant tuberculosis-infected patients than in healthy subjects.
Absorption
Maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) are typically achieved at about 5 hours post-dose. Cmax and the 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) increased proportionally up to the highest 
doses studied (700 mg single-dose and once daily 400 mg multiple doses). Administration of 
bedaquiline with food increased the relative bioavailability by about 2-fold compared to administration 
under fasted conditions. Therefore, bedaquiline should be taken with food to enhance its oral 
bioavailability.
Distribution
The plasma protein binding of bedaquiline is > 99.9% in all species tested, including human. The 
plasma protein binding of the N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2) in humans is at least 99.8%. In 
animals, bedaquiline and its active N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2) are extensively distributed to 
most tissues, however, brain uptake was low.
Biotransformation
CYP3A4 was the major CYP isoenzyme involved in vitro in the metabolism of bedaquiline and the 
formation of the N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2).
15
In vitro, bedaquiline does not significantly inhibit the activity of any of the CYP450 enzymes tested 
(CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, CYP3A4/5 and 
CYP4A) and does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2C9 or CYP2C19 activities.
Bedaquiline and M2 were not substrates of P-gp in vitro. Bedaquiline was a weak OCT1, OATP1B1
and OATP1B3 substrate in vitro, while M2 was not. Bedaquiline was not a substrate of MRP2 and
BCRP in vitro. Bedaquiline and M2 did not inhibit the transporters P-gp, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, 
BCRP, OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, MATE1 and MATE2 at clinically relevant concentrations 
in vitro. An in vitro study indicated a potential for bedaquiline to inhibit BCRP at the concentrations 
achieved in the intestine after oral administration. The clinical relevance is unknown.
Elimination
Based on the preclinical studies, the bulk of the administered dose is eliminated in faeces. The urinary 
excretion of unchanged bedaquiline was < 0.001% of the dose in clinical studies, indicating that renal 
clearance of unchanged active substance is insignificant. After reaching Cmax, bedaquiline 
concentrations decline tri-exponentially. The mean terminal elimination half-life of both bedaquiline 
and the active N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2) is about 5 months (ranging from 2 to 8 months). 
This long terminal elimination phase likely reflects slow release of bedaquiline and M2 from 
peripheral tissues.
Special populations
Hepatic impairment
A single-dose study of SIRTURO in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) 
demonstrated exposure to bedaquiline and M2 (AUC672h) was 19% lower compared to healthy 
subjects. No dose adjustment is deemed necessary in patients with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment. Bedaquiline has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see 
section 4.2).
Renal impairment
SIRTURO has mainly been studied in patients with normal renal function. Renal excretion of 
unchanged bedaquiline is insignificant (< 0.001%).
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of tuberculosis patients treated with SIRTURO 200 mg three 
times a week, creatinine clearance (range: 40 to 227 ml/min) was not found to influence the 
pharmacokinetic parameters of bedaquiline. It is therefore not expected that mild or moderate renal 
impairment will have a clinically relevant effect on the exposure to bedaquiline. However, in patients 
with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) or end-stage renal disease requiring 
haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis, bedaquiline concentrations may be increased due to alteration of 
active substance absorption, distribution, and metabolism secondary to renal dysfunction. As 
bedaquiline is highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that it will be significantly removed from 
plasma by haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.
Paediatric patients
In paediatric patients aged 5 years to less than 18 years and weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg, the 
average plasma exposure of bedaquiline (AUC168h) at week 24 is predicted to be 152 mcg*h/mL (90% 
prediction interval: 54.3-313 mcg*h/mL) when treated with the recommended weight based dosing 
regimen. In paediatric patients weighing from 30 to 40 kg, the average plasma exposure of 
bedaquiline (AUC168h) at week 24 is predicted to be higher (average: 229 µg*h/mL; 90% prediction 
interval: 68.0-484 mcg*h/mL) compared to adult patients. In paediatric patients aged 5 years to less 
than 18 years and weighing greater than 40 kg, the average plasma exposure of bedaquiline (AUC168h) 
at week 24 is predicted to be 165 mcg*h/mL (90% prediction interval: 51.2-350 mcg*h/mL) when 
treated with the recommended weight based dosing regimen. The average plasma exposure of 
bedaquiline (AUC168h) at week 24 in adults was predicted to be 127 µg*h/mL (90% prediction 
interval: 39.7-249 mcg*h/mL).
16
The pharmacokinetics of SIRTURO in paediatric patients less than 5 years of age or weighing less 
than 15 kg have not been established.
Elderly patients
There is limited clinical data (n = 2) on the use of SIRTURO in tuberculosis patients aged 65 years 
and older.
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of tuberculosis patients (age range 18 years to 68 years)
treated with SIRTURO age was not found to influence the pharmacokinetics of bedaquiline.
Race
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of tuberculosis patients treated with SIRTURO, exposure to 
bedaquiline was found to be lower in Black patients than in patients from other race categories. This 
low exposure was not considered to be clinically relevant as no clear relationship between exposure to 
bedaquiline and response has been observed in clinical trials. Furthermore, response rates in patients 
that completed the bedaquiline treatment period were comparable between different race categories in 
the clinical trials.
Gender
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of tuberculosis patients treated with SIRTURO no clinically 
relevant difference in exposure between men and women were observed.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Animal toxicology studies have been conducted with bedaquiline administration up to 3 months in 
mice, up to 6 months in rats, and up to 9 months in dogs. The plasma bedaquiline exposure (AUC) in 
rats and dogs was similar to that observed in humans. Bedaquiline was associated with effects in target 
organs which included monocytic phagocytic system (MPS), skeletal muscle, liver, stomach, pancreas 
and heart muscle. All of these toxicities except effects on MPS were monitored clinically. In the MPS 
of all species, pigment-laden and/or foamy macrophages were also seen in various tissues, consistent 
with phospholipidosis. The significance of phospholipidosis in humans is unknown. Most of the 
observed changes occurred after prolonged daily dosing and subsequent increases in plasma and tissue 
concentrations of the active substance. After treatment cessation, all indications of toxicity exhibited at 
least partial recovery to good recovery.
In a rat carcinogenicity study, bedaquiline, at the high doses of 20 mg/kg/day in males and 
10 mg/kg/day in females, did not induce any treatment-related increases in tumour incidences.
Compared to the exposures (AUC) observed in subjects with MDR-TB in the bedaquiline Phase II
trials, the exposures (AUC) in rats at high doses were similar in males and 2-fold higher in females for 
bedaquiline, and 3-fold higher in males and 2-fold higher in females for M2.
In vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests indicated that bedaquiline did not have any mutagenic or 
clastogenic effects.
Bedaquiline had no effects on fertility when evaluated in female rats. Three of 24 male rats treated 
with high bedaquiline doses failed to produce offspring in the fertility study. Normal spermatogenesis 
and a normal amount of spermatozoa in the epidydimides were noted in these animals. No structural 
abnormalities in the testes and epididymides were seen after up to 6-months of bedaquiline treatment. 
No relevant bedaquiline-related effects on developmental toxicity parameters were observed in rats 
and rabbits. The corresponding plasma exposure (AUC) was 2-fold higher in rats compared to 
humans. In the rat, no adverse effects were observed in a pre- and post-natal development study at 
maternal plasma exposure (AUC) similar to humans and exposure in the offspring 3-fold higher than 
in adult humans. There was no effect of maternal treatment with bedaquiline at any dose level on 
sexual maturation, behavioural development, mating performance, fertility or reproductive capacity of 
the F1 generation animals. Body weight decreases in pups were noted in high dose groups during the 
lactation period after exposure to bedaquiline via milk and were not a consequence of in utero
17
exposure. Concentrations of bedaquiline in milk were 6- to12-fold higher that the maximum 
concentration observed in maternal plasma.
In a juvenile rat toxicity study, the no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) was 15 mg/kg/day 
(maximum dose 45mg/kg/day) for observations of diffuse inflammation and/or degeneration in 
skeletal muscle (reversible), oesophagus (reversible) and tongue (reversible), liver hypertrophy 
(reversible) and  corticomedullary renal mineralization (partial recovery in males, and no recovery in 
females within 8 weeks after end of exposure). The NOAEL corresponds to a plasma AUC24h of 13.1 
and 35.6 mcg.h/mL for bedaquiline (~0.7x clinical dose) and 10.5 and 16.3 mcg.h/mL for the N-
monodesmethyl metabolite of bedaquiline (M2) in males and females (~1.8x clinical dose),
respectively.
Environmental risk assessment (ERA)
Environmental risk assessment studies have shown that bedaquiline has the potential to be persistent, 
bioaccumulative and toxic to the environment (see section 6.6).
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
SIRTURO 20 mg tablet
Microcrystalline cellulose
Crospovidone 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous
Hypromellose 
Polysorbate 20 
Sodium stearyl fumarate
SIRTURO 100 mg tablet
Lactose monohydrate
Maize starch
Hypromellose
Polysorbate 20
Microcrystalline cellulose
Croscarmellose sodium
Silica, colloidal anhydrous
Magnesium stearate
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
-
3 years
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
-
3 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
18
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
Store in the original container and keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from light and 
moisture. Do not remove desiccant.
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
Store in the original container or package in order to protect from light.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
White, opaque, high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with child-resistant polypropylene (PP) 
closure with aluminium induction seal liner. Each bottle contains 60 tablets and silica gel desiccant.
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
White HDPE bottle with child-resistant PP closure with aluminium induction seal liner containing 
188 tablets.
Carton containing 4 push-through blister strips (containing 6 tablets per strip). Tablets are packaged in 
aluminium/aluminium foil blisters.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
This medicinal product may pose a risk to the environment (see section 5.3).
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements
(see section 5.3).
SIRTURO 20 mg tablet can also be administered through a feeding tube (8 French or greater) as 
follows:

Disperse 5 tablets or less in 50 mL of non-carbonated water and mix well. Mixture should be 
white to almost white with visible particles expected. 
Administer through feeding tube immediately. 
Repeat with additional tablets until desired dose is reached. 
Rinse and flush with 25 mL of additional water to ensure no tablet residue is left in materials 
used for preparation or the feeding tube.



7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/13/901/001
EU/1/13/901/002
EU/1/13/901/003
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 5 March 2014
19
Date of latest renewal: 20 December 2022
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
23/02/2023
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
20
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
E.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE CONDITIONAL 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
21
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The market authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
E.
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14a(4) of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures:
Description
The MAH will evaluate additional efficacy and safety data of 
bedaquiline in different treatment regimen compared to a 
regimen that does not include bedaquiline (confirmatory 
Phase III study) following an agreed protocol.
Due date

Annual updates on study 
progress in the frame of 
annual renewal 
submissions
Final analysis - Clinical 
Study Report 4Q 2023

22
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
23
A. LABELLING
24
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
bedaquiline
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to 20 mg bedaquiline.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original container and keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from light and 
moisture. Do not remove desiccant.
25
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
This medicine may pose a risk to the environment. Any unused medicine should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/13/901/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
sirturo 20 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
26
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
bedaquiline
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to 20 mg bedaquiline.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original container and keep tightly closed to protect from light and moisture. Do not 
remove desiccant.
27
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
This medicine may pose a risk to the environment. Any unused medicine should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/13/901/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
28
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
bedaquiline
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to 100 mg bedaquiline.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
188 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original container in order to protect from light.
29
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
This medicine may pose a risk to the environment. Any unused medicine should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/13/901/001
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
sirturo 100 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
30
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
bedaquiline
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to 100 mg bedaquiline.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
188 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original container in order to protect from light.
31
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
This medicine may pose a risk to the environment. Any unused medicine should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/13/901/001
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
32
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
bedaquiline
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to 100 mg bedaquiline.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
24 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
33
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
This medicine may pose a risk to the environment. Any unused medicine should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/13/901/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
sirturo 100 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
34
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
bedaquiline
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
35
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
36
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
SIRTURO 20 mg tablets
bedaquiline
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What SIRTURO is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take SIRTURO
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take SIRTURO
Possible side effects
How to store SIRTURO
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What SIRTURO is and what it is used for
SIRTURO contains the active substance bedaquiline.
SIRTURO is a type of antibiotic. Antibiotics are medicines that kill bacteria that cause disease.
SIRTURO is used to treat tuberculosis that affects the lungs when the disease has become resistant to 
other antibiotics. This is called multi-drug resistant pulmonary tuberculosis.
SIRTURO must always be taken together with other medicines for treating tuberculosis.
It is used in adults and children (5 years and over, who weigh at least 15 kg).
2. What you need to know before you take SIRTURO
Do not take SIRTURO

if you are allergic to bedaquiline or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). Do not take SIRTURO if this applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor 
or pharmacist before taking SIRTURO.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking SIRTURO, if:
you have had an abnormal heart reading (ECG) or heart failure;

you have a personal or family history of a heart problem called “congenital long QT syndrome”;

you have a decreased thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test;

you have liver disease or you drink alcohol on a regular basis;

you have human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.

37
If any of the above applies to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
taking SIRTURO. 
Children and adolescents
In adolescents weighing 30 to 40 kg, the levels of SIRTURO in the blood were predicted to be higher 
than in adults. This might be associated with an increased risk of abnormal reading on the 
electrocardiogram (QT prolongation) or increased liver enzymes (shown in blood test). Talk to your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking SIRTURO. 
Do not give this medicine to children under 5 years of age or weighing less than 15 kg because it has 
not been studied in these patients.
Other medicines and SIRTURO
Other medicines may affect SIRTURO. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently 
taken or might take any other medicines.
The following are examples of medicines patients with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis may take and 
which may potentially interact with SIRTURO:
Medicine (name of the active 
substance)
rifampicin, rifapentine, 
rifabutin
ketoconazole, fluconazole
efavirenz, etravirine, 
lopinavir/ritonavir
clofazimine
carbamazepine, phenytoin
St. John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum)
ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin
Purpose of the medicine
to treat some infections like tuberculosis
(antimycobacterial)
to treat fungal infections (antifungals)
to treat HIV infection (antiretroviral non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors, antiretroviral protease inhibitors)
to treat some infections like leprosy
(antimycobacterial)
to treat epileptic fits (anticonvulsants)
an herbal product to relieve anxiety
to treat bacterial infections (antibacterials)
SIRTURO with alcohol
You should not drink alcohol while taking SIRTURO.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.
Driving and using machines
You may feel dizzy after taking SIRTURO. If this happens, do not drive or operate machinery.
3.
How to take SIRTURO
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.
SIRTURO must always be taken together with other medicines for treating tuberculosis. Your doctor 
will decide which other medicines you should take with SIRTURO.
Use in children (5 years and over and weighing between 15 kg and 20 kg)
How much to take
You take SIRTURO for a 24 week course.
38
Take 160 mg once a day.
First 2 weeks:

From week 3 to week 24:


Take 80 mg once a day for 3 days of each week only.
There must be at least 48 hours in between each time you take SIRTURO. For example, 
you may take SIRTURO on Monday, Wednesday and Friday every week from week 3 
onwards.
Use in children (5 years and over and weighing between 20 kg and 30 kg)
How much to take
You take SIRTURO for a 24 week course.
Take 200 mg once a day.
First 2 weeks:

From week 3 to week 24:


Take 100 mg once a day for 3 days of each week only.
There must be at least 48 hours in between each time you take SIRTURO. For example, 
you may take SIRTURO on Monday, Wednesday and Friday every week from week 3 
onwards.
You may need to keep taking your other medicines for tuberculosis for longer than 6 months. Check 
with your doctor or pharmacist.
Use in adults and in children (5 years and over and weighing at least 30 kg)
How much to take
You take SIRTURO for a 24 week course.
Take 400 mg once a day.
First 2 weeks:

From week 3 to week 24:


Take 200 mg once a day for 3 days of each week only.
There must be at least 48 hours in between each time you take SIRTURO. For example, 
you may take SIRTURO on Monday, Wednesday and Friday every week from week 3 
onwards.
Taking this medicine

Always take SIRTURO with food. The food is important to get the right levels of medicine in 
your body.
If you can swallow tablets

Swallow the tablets with water – the tablets can be taken whole or split in half.
If you cannot swallow tablets

If you are unable to swallow SIRTURO tablets, you may: 

Mix with water: Mix up to 5 tablets per one teaspoon of water until fully mixed. 
o
o
Swallow the mixture straight away, or
To help with taking SIRTURO you may add at least one extra teaspoon of water 
(or another drink) or soft food and mix. 
You can use the following drinks for mixing: water, milk product, apple juice, 
orange juice, cranberry juice or carbonated drinks. You can use the following soft 
foods for mixing: yoghurt, apple sauce, mashed bananas or porridge.
Swallow the mixture straight away. 
Repeat with more tablets until you have taken all the dose. 
Make sure no bits of the tablet are left in container, rinse with more of your drink
or soft food and swallow the mixture straight away. 
o
o
o
o
39


Crush tablets and mix with soft food: You can use soft food such as yoghurt, apple
sauce, mashed bananas or porridge. Swallow the mixture straight away. Make sure no bits 
of the tablet are left in container - add more soft food and swallow the mixture straight 
away.
Feeding tube: SIRTURO 20 mg tablets may also be given through certain feeding tubes. 
Ask your healthcare provider for specific instructions on how to properly take the tablets 
through a feeding tube.
If you take more SIRTURO than you should
If you take more SIRTURO than you should, talk to a doctor straight away. Take the medicine pack 
with you.
If you forget to take SIRTURO
During the first 2 weeks


Skip the missed dose and take the next dose as usual
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
From week 3 onwards



Take the missed dose as soon as possible.
Resume the three times a week schedule.
Make sure that there is at least 24 hours between taking the missed dose and the next scheduled 
dose.
Do not take more than the prescribed weekly dose in a 7-day period.

If you have missed a dose and you are not sure what to do, talk to your doctor or pharmacist.
If you stop taking SIRTURO
Do not stop taking SIRTURO without first talking to your doctor.
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may:


make your treatment ineffective and your tuberculosis could get worse, and;
increase the chance that the bacteria will become resistant to the medicine. This means your 
disease may not be treatable by SIRTURO or other medicines in the future.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):




headache
joint pain
feeling dizzy
feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting).
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):




diarrhoea
increased liver enzymes (shown in blood tests)
aching or tender muscles, not caused by exercise
abnormal reading on the electrocardiogram called “QT prolongation”. Tell your doctor right 
away if you faint.
Additional side effects in children
40
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):
increased liver enzymes (shown in blood tests)

Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store SIRTURO
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in the original container and keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from light and 
moisture. Do not remove desiccant (pouch containing drying agent).
This medicine may pose a risk to the environment. Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater 
or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These 
measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What SIRTURO contains

The active substance is bedaquiline. Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to 
20 mg of bedaquiline.
The other ingredients are: microcrystalline cellulose, crospovidone, colloidal anhydrous silica, 
hypromellose, polysorbate 20, sodium stearly fumarate.

What SIRTURO looks like and contents of the pack
Uncoated, white to almost white oblong tablet with score line on both sides, debossed with “2” and 
“0” on one side and plain on other side.
A plastic bottle containing 60 tablets
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
41
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: 1 800 709 122
medinfo@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
42
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
medinfo@its.jnj.com
This leaflet was last revised in
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about this medicine. The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine 
at least every year and this leaflet will be updated as necessary.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
43
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
SIRTURO 100 mg tablets
bedaquiline
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What SIRTURO is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take SIRTURO
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take SIRTURO
Possible side effects
How to store SIRTURO
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What SIRTURO is and what it is used for
SIRTURO contains the active substance bedaquiline.
SIRTURO is a type of antibiotic. Antibiotics are medicines that kill bacteria that cause disease.
SIRTURO is used to treat tuberculosis that affects the lungs when the disease has become resistant to 
other antibiotics. This is called multi-drug resistant pulmonary tuberculosis.
SIRTURO must always be taken together with other medicines for treating tuberculosis.
It is used in adults and children (5 years and over, who weigh at least 15 kg).
2. What you need to know before you take SIRTURO
Do not take SIRTURO:

if you are allergic to bedaquiline or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). Do not take SIRTURO if this applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor 
or pharmacist before taking SIRTURO.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking SIRTURO, if:
you have had an abnormal heart reading (ECG) or heart failure;

you have a personal or family history of a heart problem called “congenital long QT syndrome”;

you have a decreased thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test;

you have liver disease or you drink alcohol on a regular basis;

you have human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.

44
If any of the above applies to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
taking SIRTURO.
Children and adolescents
In adolescents weighing 30 to 40 kg, the levels of SIRTURO in the blood were predicted to be higher 
than in adults. This might be associated with an increased risk of abnormal reading on the 
electrocardiogram (QT prolongation) or increased liver enzymes (shown in blood test). Talk to your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking SIRTURO.
Do not give this medicine to children under 5 years of age or weighing less than 15 kg because it has 
not been studied in these patients.
Other medicines and SIRTURO
Other medicines may affect SIRTURO. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently 
taken or might take any other medicines.
The following are examples of medicines patients with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis may take and 
which may potentially interact with SIRTURO:
Medicine (name of the active 
substance)
rifampicin, rifapentine, 
rifabutin
ketoconazole, fluconazole
efavirenz, etravirine, 
lopinavir/ritonavir
clofazimine
carbamazepine, phenytoin
St. John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum)
ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin
Purpose of the medicine
to treat some infections like tuberculosis
(antimycobacterial)
to treat fungal infections (antifungals)
to treat HIV infection (antiretroviral non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors, antiretroviral protease inhibitors)
to treat some infections like leprosy
(antimycobacterial)
to treat epileptic fits (anticonvulsants)
an herbal product to relieve anxiety
to treat bacterial infections (antibacterials)
SIRTURO with alcohol
You should not drink alcohol while taking SIRTURO.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.
Driving and using machines
You may feel dizzy after taking SIRTURO. If this happens, do not drive or operate machinery.
SIRTURO contains lactose 
SIRTURO contains “lactose” (a type of sugar). If you cannot tolerate or digest some sugars, talk to 
your doctor before taking this medicine.
3.
How to take SIRTURO
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.
SIRTURO must always be taken together with other medicines for treating tuberculosis. Your doctor 
will decide which other medicines you should take with SIRTURO.
45
Use in children (5 years and over and weighing between 15 kg and 20 kg)
How much to take
You take SIRTURO for a 24 week course.
Take 160 mg once a day.
First 2 weeks:

From week 3 to week 24:


Take 80 mg once a day for 3 days of each week only.
There must be at least 48 hours in between each time you take SIRTURO. For example, 
you may take SIRTURO on Monday, Wednesday and Friday every week from week 3 
onwards.
Use in children (5 years and over and weighing between 20 kg and 30 kg)
How much to take
You take SIRTURO for a 24 week course.
Take 200 mg once a day.
First 2 weeks:

From week 3 to week 24:


Take 100 mg once a day for 3 days of each week only.
There must be at least 48 hours in between each time you take SIRTURO. For example, 
you may take SIRTURO on Monday, Wednesday and Friday every week from week 3 
onwards.
Use in adults and in children (5 years and over and weighing at least 30 kg)
How much to take
You take SIRTURO for a 24 week course.
Take 400 mg once a day.
First 2 weeks:

From week 3 to week 24:


Take 200 mg once a day for 3 days of each week only.
There must be at least 48 hours in between each time you take SIRTURO. For example, 
you may take SIRTURO on Monday, Wednesday and Friday every week from week 3 
onwards.
You may need to keep taking your other medicines for tuberculosis for longer than 6 months. Check 
with your doctor or pharmacist.
Taking this medicine

Take SIRTURO with food. The food is important to get the right levels of medicine in your 
body.
Swallow the tablets whole with water.

If you take more SIRTURO than you should
If you take more SIRTURO than you should, talk to a doctor straight away. Take the medicine pack 
with you.
If you forget to take SIRTURO
During the first 2 weeks


Skip the missed dose and take the next dose as usual
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
From week 3 onwards


Take the missed dose as soon as possible.
Resume the three times a week schedule.
46


Make sure there is at least 24 hours between taking the missed dose and the next scheduled 
dose.
Do not take more than the prescribed weekly dose in a 7-day period.
If you have missed a dose and you are not sure what to do, talk to your doctor or pharmacist.
If you stop taking SIRTURO
Do not stop taking SIRTURO without first talking to your doctor.
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may:


make your treatment ineffective and your tuberculosis could get worse, and;
increase the chance that the bacteria will become resistant to the medicine. This means your 
disease may not be treatable by SIRTURO or other medicines in the future.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):




headache
joint pain
feeling dizzy
feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting).
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):




diarrhoea
increased liver enzymes (shown in blood tests)
aching or tender muscles, not caused by exercise
abnormal reading on the electrocardiogram called “QT prolongation”. Tell your doctor right 
away if you faint.
Additional side effects in children
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):
increased liver enzymes (shown in blood tests)

Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store SIRTURO
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
Store SIRTURO in the original container or package in order to protect it from light.
47
This medicine may pose a risk to the environment. Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater 
or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These 
measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What SIRTURO contains


The active substance is bedaquiline. Each tablet contains bedaquiline fumarate equivalent to
100 mg of bedaquiline.
The other ingredients are: colloidal anhydrous silica, croscarmellose sodium, hypromellose, 
lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, maize starch, microcrystalline cellulose, 
polysorbate 20.
What SIRTURO looks like and contents of the pack
Uncoated, white to almost white round biconvex tablet, 11 mm in diameter, with debossing of "T" 
over "207" on one side and "100" on the other side.
A plastic bottle containing 188 tablets.
A carton containing 4 push-through blister strips (containing 6 tablets per strip).
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
48
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: 1 800 709 122
medinfo@its.jnj.com
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
medinfo@its.jnj.com
49
This leaflet was last revised in
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about this medicine. The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine 
at least every year and this leaflet will be updated as necessary.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
50
