EMA/95270/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005778 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun 
(sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride) 
An overview of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun and why it is 
authorised in the EU 
What is Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun and what is it used for? 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun is a medicine used to control blood glucose (sugar) levels in 
adults with type 2 diabetes. It is used together with diet and exercise in the following ways: 
• 
in patients whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily controlled with metformin (a diabetes 
medicine) used on its own; 
• 
• 
in patients who are already taking a combination of sitagliptin and metformin as separate tablets; 
in combination with a sulphonylurea, a PPAR-gamma agonist such as a thiazolidinedione, or insulin 
(other types of diabetes medicines) in patients whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily 
controlled with these individual medicines and metformin. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun contains the active substances sitagliptin and metformin 
hydrochloride and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun 
contains the same active substances and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the EU called Janumet. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-
and-answer document here. 
How is Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun used? 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a 
prescription. The medicine is taken twice a day and the dose depends on the dose of the other diabetes 
medicines that the patient was taking before.  
If Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun is taken with a sulphonylurea or insulin, the dose of the 
sulphonylurea or insulin may need to be lowered to avoid hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar levels).  
For more information about using Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or where the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substances in 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun each have a different mode of action to help correct this. 
Sitagliptin is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown of incretin 
hormones in the body which are released after a meal and stimulate the pancreas to produce insulin. 
By increasing levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin stimulates the pancreas to produce 
more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does not work when blood glucose levels 
are low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the liver by increasing insulin levels 
and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon.  
Metformin works mainly by inhibiting glucose production and reducing its absorption in the gut.  
Together, these actions reduce blood glucose levels which helps to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substances in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Janumet, and do not need to be repeated for 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun.  
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride 
Sun. The company also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference 
medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance 
in the body and are therefore expected to have the same effect.  
What are the benefits and risks of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride 
Sun? 
Because Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the 
reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Janumet. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Janumet, the benefits of 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun have been included in the summary of 
product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun are continuously 
monitored. Suspected side effects reported with Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun are carefully 
evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride)  
EMA/95270/2023  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 
31 March 2023. 
Further information on Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/sitagliptin-metformin-hydrochloride-Sun. Information on the 
reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 02-2023. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride)  
EMA/95270/2023  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
