Summary of risk management plan for Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg 
film-coated tablets (Sitagliptin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-
coated tablets. The RMP details important risks of Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated 
tablets,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets’ summary of product characteristics (SmPC) 
and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets should be read 
in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Sitagliptin 
Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets’ RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
For  adult  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus,  Sitagliptin  Accord  is  indicated  to  improve 
glycaemic control: 
As monotherapy: 
• 
In  patients  inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and  exercise  alone  and  for  whom  metformin  is 
inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
As dual oral therapy in combination with: 
•  Metformin when diet and exercise plus metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control. 
•  A sulphonylurea when diet and exercise plus maximal tolerated dose of a sulphonylurea alone 
do  not  provide  adequate  glycaemic  control  and  when  metformin  is  inappropriate  due  to 
contraindications or intolerance. 
•  A peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) 
when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet and exercise plus the PPAR agonist 
alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
 
As triple oral therapy in combination with: 
•  A sulphonylurea and metformin when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with these medicinal 
products do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
•  A PPARγ agonist and metformin when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet 
and exercise plus dual therapy with these medicinal products do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control. 
Sitagliptin Accord is also indicated as add-on to insulin (with or without metformin) when diet and 
exercise plus stable dose of insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
It contains sitagliptin hydrochloride monohydrate as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Sitagliptin  Accord  25/50/100  mg  film-coated  tablets’ 
benefits can be found in Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets’ EPAR, including in its 
plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sitagliptin-accord. 
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important risks of Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets, together with measures to 
minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Sitagliptin  Accord  
25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including signal management activity, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe use  of  Sitagliptin  Accord  25/50/100  mg film-
coated tablets is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets are risks that need special 
risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Sitagliptin  Accord  
25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the 
use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of 
the medicine). 
Important identified risk 
•  None 
Important potential risk 
•  Pancreatic cancer 
Missing information 
•  Exposure during pregnancy and lactation 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C 
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Sitagliptin Accord 25/50/100 mg film-coated tablets. 
 
 
 
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  for  Sitagliptin  Accord  25/50/100  mg  film-coated  tablets  as  post-
authorisation development plan. 
