PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan (metformin/sitagliptin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan. The RMP 
details important risks of metformin/sitagliptin, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  metformin/sitagliptin's  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan should be read in the context of all 
the information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan is authorised as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic 
control in patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin alone or 
those already being treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin or metformin and a 
sulfonylurea  or  metformin  and  a  PPAR agonist  or  insulin  and  metformin.  It  contains 
metformin/sitagliptin as the active substance and is given by oral route of administration as 850 
mg/50 mg film-coated tablets or 1000 mg/50 mg film-coated tablets. 
Further information about the evaluation of Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan’s benefits can be found 
in Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on 
the 
EMA 
website, 
under 
the 
medicine’s 
webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sitagliptin-metformin-mylan. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan, together with measures to minimise such risks 
are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important  risks  of  Metformin/Sitagliptin  Mylan  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken by patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based 
on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient 
populations etc.); 
Part VI: Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Lactic acidosis 
Important potential risks 
•  Pancreatic cancer 
Missing information 
•  Use in pregnancy and during breast-feeding 
 
II.B Summary of important risks  
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Metformin/Sitagliptin Mylan. 
