EMA/382461/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005850 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord 
(sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride) 
An overview of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord and why it is 
authorised in the EU 
What is Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord and what is it used for? 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord is a medicine used to control blood glucose (sugar) levels in 
adults with type 2 diabetes. It is used together with diet and exercise in the following ways: 
• 
• 
• 
in patients whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily controlled with metformin (a diabetes 
medicine) used on its own; 
in patients who are already taking a combination of sitagliptin and metformin as separate tablets; 
in combination with a sulphonylurea, a PPAR-gamma agonist such as a thiazolidinedione, or insulin 
(other types of diabetes medicines) in patients whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily 
controlled with either of these medicines and metformin. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord contains the active substances sitagliptin and metformin 
hydrochloride and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord 
contains the same active substances and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the EU called Janumet. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-
and-answer document here. 
How is Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord used? 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a 
prescription. The medicine is taken twice a day and the dose depends on the dose of the other diabetes 
medicines that the patient was taking before. If Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord is taken 
with a sulphonylurea or insulin, the dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may need to be lowered to 
avoid hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar levels). The maximum dose of sitagliptin is 100 mg a day. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord should be taken with food to avoid any stomach problems 
caused by metformin.   
For more information about using Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord, see the package leaflet 
or contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or where the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substances in 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord each have a different mode of action to help correct this. 
Sitagliptin is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown of 
‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the pancreas 
to produce insulin. By increasing levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin stimulates the 
pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does not work when 
blood glucose levels are low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the liver by 
increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon.  
Metformin works mainly by inhibiting glucose production and reducing its absorption in the gut.  
Together, these processes reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substances in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Janumet, and do not need to be repeated for 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride 
Accord. The company also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference 
medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance 
in the body and are therefore expected to have the same effect.  
What are the benefits and risks of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride 
Accord? 
Because Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the 
reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Janumet. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Janumet, the benefits of 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord have been included in the summary of 
product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord are continuously 
monitored. Suspected side effects reported with Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord are 
carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride)  
EMA/382461/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU 
on 22 July 2022. 
Further information on Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/sitagliptin-metformin-hydrochloride-accord. 
Information on the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 07-2022. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride)  
EMA/382461/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
