Summary of risk management plan for  
Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets 
(sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Sitagliptin  SUN  25,  50  and  100  mg  film-
coated tablets. The RMP details important risks of Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Sitagliptin SUN 25, 
50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and 
its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Sitagliptin 
SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets should be used.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Sitagliptin SUN 
25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets’ RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets is indicated for adult patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus  to  improve  glycaemic  control.  It  contains  sitagliptin  phosphate  monohydrate  as  the  active 
substance and it is given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Sitagliptin  SUN  25,  50  and  100  mg  film-coated  tablets’s 
benefits can be found in Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets’s EPAR, including in its 
plain-language  summary,  available  on 
the  EMA  website,  under 
the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sitagliptin-sun. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise 
or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets, together with measures to 
minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 
mg film-coated tablets‘s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 
 
 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated 
tablets is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Sitagliptin SUN 25, 50 and 100 mg film-coated tablets are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Sitagliptin  SUN  25,  50  and  100  mg  film-coated  tablets. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  None 
Important potential risks 
•  Pancreatic cancer  
Missing information 
•  Exposure during pregnancy and lactation 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information of Sitagliptin is aligned to the list of safety 
concerns per the last approved RMP (Version 0.2 dated 23.12.2019) available on CMDh site for 
Sitagliptin (Maysiglu, Sitagliptin Krka, Sitagavia, Sitagliptin TAD).2  
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
None proposed. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
None. 
