EMA/604084/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005741 
Sitagliptin SUN (sitagliptin) 
An overview of Sitagliptin SUN and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Sitagliptin SUN and what is it used for? 
Sitagliptin SUN is a medicine used to control blood glucose (sugar) levels in adults with type 2 
diabetes. It is used together with diet and exercise in the following ways: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
on its own, in patients whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily controlled with diet and 
exercise and who cannot take metformin (a diabetes medicine); 
in combination with metformin or a PPAR-gamma agonist (a type of diabetes medicine) such as a 
thiazolidinedione, in patients whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily controlled with 
metformin or the PPAR-gamma agonist used on its own; 
in combination with a sulphonylurea (another diabetes medicine) in patients whose blood glucose 
levels are not satisfactorily controlled with a sulphonylurea used on its own and who cannot take 
metformin; 
in combination with both metformin and a sulphonylurea or a PPAR-gamma agonist, in patients 
whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily controlled with the two medicines; 
in combination with insulin, with or without metformin, in patients whose blood glucose levels are 
not satisfactorily controlled with a stable dose of insulin. 
Sitagliptin SUN contains the active substance sitagliptin and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Sitagliptin SUN contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Januvia. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Sitagliptin SUN used? 
Sitagliptin SUN is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a prescription. The recommended 
dose is 100 mg once a day. The dose may be lowered in some patients with reduced kidney function. If 
Sitagliptin SUN is taken with a sulphonylurea or insulin, the dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may 
need to be lowered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels). 
For more information about using Sitagliptin SUN, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Sitagliptin SUN work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance in 
Sitagliptin SUN, sitagliptin, is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the 
breakdown of ‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate 
the pancreas to produce insulin. By increasing levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin 
stimulates the pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does 
not work when blood glucose levels are low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by 
the liver, by increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Together, 
these processes reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes.  
How has Sitagliptin SUN been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Januvia, and do not need to be repeated for Sitagliptin SUN. 
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Sitagliptin SUN. The company also 
carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are therefore 
expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Sitagliptin SUN? 
Because Sitagliptin SUN is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Sitagliptin SUN authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Sitagliptin SUN 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Januvia. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Januvia, the benefits of Sitagliptin SUN outweigh the identified risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sitagliptin SUN? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sitagliptin SUN have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sitagliptin SUN are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Sitagliptin SUN are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Sitagliptin SUN 
Sitagliptin SUN received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 December 2021. 
Further information on Sitagliptin SUN can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/sitagliptin-sun. Information on the reference medicine can also 
be found on the Agency’s website. 
Sitagliptin SUN (sitagliptin)  
EMA/604084/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 01-2022. 
Sitagliptin SUN (sitagliptin)  
EMA/604084/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
