Summary of risk management plan for Sitagliptin/Metformin 
hydrochloride  SUN  (sitagliptin  fumarate  and  metformin 
hydrochloride) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for “Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN”. The 
RMP details important risks of “Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN”, how these risks can be minimised, 
and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  “Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  SUN”  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
“Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  SUN”  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package 
leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  “Sitagliptin/Metformin 
hydrochloride SUN ” should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for “Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN” should be read in the context of all 
this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of “Sitagliptin/Metformin 
hydrochloride SUN”’ RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
“Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN” is indicated for adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
•  Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  SUN  is  indicated  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  improve 
glycaemic  control  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of  metformin 
alone or those already being treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin. 
•  Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN is indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple 
combination  therapy)  as an adjunct to diet and  exercise in  patients inadequately  controlled  on their 
maximal tolerated dose of metformin and a sulphonylurea. 
•  Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN is indicated as triple combination therapy with a peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonist (i.e., a thiazolidinedione) as an adjunct to diet 
and exercise in patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin and a 
PPARγ agonist. 
•  Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN is also indicated as add-on to insulin (i.e., triple combination 
therapy) as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients when stable dose 
of insulin and metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
It  contains  sitagliptin  fumarate  equivalent  and  metformin  hydrochloride  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is 
given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  “Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  SUN”’s  benefits  can  be 
found  in  “Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  SUN  ’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary, 
available 
on 
the 
EMA 
website, 
under 
the 
medicine’s 
webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sitagliptin-metformin-hydrochloride-sun. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks  
Important risks of “Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN”, together with measures to minimise such risks 
and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  “Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  SUN”  risks,  are 
outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, in the package leaflet 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of “Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN” is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of “Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN” are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  “Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  SUN”.  Potential  risks  are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. 
on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Lactic acidosis 
Important potential risks 
Pancreatic cancer 
Missing information 
Exposure during pregnancy and lactation 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride SUN. 
 
 
 
