ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sixmo 74.2 mg implant 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each implant contains buprenorphine hydrochloride equivalent to 74.2 mg of buprenorphine. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Implant 
White/Off-white to pale yellow, rod-shaped implant, 26.5 mm long and 2.4 mm in diameter. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Sixmo is indicated for substitution treatment for opioid dependence in clinically stable adult patients 
who require no more than 8 mg/day of sublingual buprenorphine, within a framework of medical, 
social and psychological treatment. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment must be under the supervision of a healthcare professional experienced in the management 
of opioid dependence/addiction. Insertion and removal of the Sixmo implants must be performed by a 
physician who is competent in minor surgery and has been trained to conduct the insertion and 
removal procedure. Appropriate precautions, such as the conduct of patient follow-up visits according 
to the patient's needs and the treating physician’s clinical judgement, should be taken during Sixmo 
treatment. 
Patients previously treated with sublingual buprenorphine or sublingual buprenorphine + naloxone, 
must be on stable doses between 2 to 8 mg/day for at least 30 days and deemed clinically stable by the 
treating healthcare professional. 
The following factors should be considered when determining clinical stability and suitability for 
Sixmo treatment:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
period free from opioid drug abuse 
stability of living environment 
participation in a structured activity/job  
consistency in participation in recommended behavioural therapy/peer support programme  
consistency in compliance with clinic visit requirements  
minimal to no desire or need to abuse opioids  
period without episodes of hospitalisations (addiction or mental health issues), emergency room 
visits, or crisis interventions  
social support system  
• 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Sixmo should be used only in patients who are opioid tolerant. Each dose consists of four implants, for 
subcutaneous insertion in the inner side of the upper arm. 
Sixmo implants are intended to be in place for 6 months of treatment and provide a sustained delivery 
of buprenorphine. They are removed by the end of the sixth month. 
Treatment with Sixmo 
Sublingual buprenorphine should be discontinued 12 to 24 hours prior to subcutaneous insertion of 
Sixmo implants.  
Criteria for the use of supplemental sublingual buprenorphine 
It is possible that a subset of patients may require occasional supplemental sublingual buprenorphine 
support to achieve full control of opioid withdrawal symptoms and cravings, e.g. at times of personal 
stress or crisis.  
The administration of additional buprenorphine sublingual doses should be considered by the treating 
physician if: 
• 
the patient experiences withdrawal symptoms, e.g. sweating, lacrimation, yawning, nausea, 
vomiting, tachycardia, hypertension, piloerection, dilated pupils; 
in case of patient’s self-reported heroin use, other opioid use or craving and/ or urine samples 
positive for opioids 
• 
Although some patients may require occasional supplemental dosing with buprenorphine, patients 
should not be provided with prescriptions for sublingual buprenorphine-containing products for as-
needed use. Instead, patients who feel the need for supplemental dosing should be seen and evaluated 
promptly.  
Treatment discontinuation criteria 
The treating physician should consider implant removal if: 
• 
the patient experiences severe or intolerable side effects (including severe precipitated 
withdrawal); 
signs of intoxication or overdose appear (miosis, lip cyanosis, sedation, bradycardia, 
hypotension, respiratory depression); 
the patient experiences lack of efficacy, as evidenced by lasting withdrawal symptoms that 
require repeated management with sublingual buprenorphine 
• 
• 
Discontinuation 
Patients who discontinue treatment with Sixmo should be switched back to their previous dose of 
sublingual buprenorphine within 12 to 24 hours following removal of the Sixmo implants (i.e. the dose 
from which they were transferred prior to starting Sixmo treatment). The dissociation of 
buprenorphine from the µ-opioid receptors is expected to take up to several days after discontinuation 
of Sixmo treatment, which will prevent withdrawal symptoms immediately after removal of Sixmo.  
Retreatment 
If continued treatment is desired at the end of the first six-month treatment cycle, a new set of 4 Sixmo 
implants may be administered following removal of the old implants for one additional treatment cycle 
of six months. The experience of a second treatment cycle is limited. There is no experience of re-
implantation beyond 12 months. Implants should be inserted in the inner side of the opposite upper 
arm, following the insertion steps below to locate the appropriate insertion site. 
Implants for repeat treatment should be inserted subcutaneously as soon as possible after removal of 
the previous implants, preferably on the same day. If implants for repeat treatment are not inserted on 
the same day as removal of previous implants, individuals should be maintained on a fixed dose of 2 
to 8 mg/day of sublingual buprenorphine, as clinically indicated, until repeat treatment occurs. 
Sublingual buprenorphine should be discontinued 12 to 24 hours prior to insertion of four Sixmo 
implants.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After one subcutaneous insertion in each arm (for a total of two treatments cycles), most patients 
should be transitioned back to their previous sublingual buprenorphine dose (i.e. the dose from which 
they were transferred to Sixmo treatment) for continued treatment. There are no prospective data with 
Sixmo beyond two treatment cycles, and there is no experience with inserting Sixmo implants into 
other sites of the arm, sites other than the upper arm or re-insertion into previously-used sites.  
Special populations 
Elderly 
Clinical studies of Sixmo did not include patients over 65 years and, therefore, the use of the product 
in this population is not recommended. The efficacy and safety of buprenorphine in elderly patients 
> 65 years has not been established. No recommendation on posology can be made. 
Hepatic impairment 
Because buprenorphine levels cannot be adjusted during Sixmo treatment, Sixmo is contraindicated in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) (sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2). Patients with mild 
to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A and B) should be monitored for signs and symptoms of 
toxicity or overdose caused by increased levels of buprenorphine (miosis, lip cyanosis, sedation, 
bradycardia, hypotension, respiratory depression). In case toxicity or overdose symptoms are 
observed, the removal of the implants and transition to a medicinal product that allows dose 
adjustment are required.  
Patients who develop hepatic impairment while being treated with Sixmo should be monitored for 
signs and symptoms of toxicity or overdose. In case toxicity or overdose symptoms develop, the 
removal of the implants and transition to a medicinal product that allows dose adjustment are required. 
Renal impairment 
Renal elimination plays a relatively small role (approximately 30%) in the overall clearance of 
buprenorphine and buprenorphine plasma concentrations were not increased in patients with renal 
impairment.  
Modification of the Sixmo dose is not required in patients with renal impairment. Caution is 
recommended when dosing patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.2).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Sixmo in children under 18 years have not yet been established. No data are 
available.  
Method of administration 
Subcutaneous use 
Preparations for handling or administering the medicinal product 
• 
• 
• 
The insertion and removal of Sixmo should take place under aseptic conditions. 
The patient should be able to lie on their back.  
It is recommended that the healthcare professional is in a seated position during the entire 
insertion procedure so that the insertion site and the movement of the needle under the skin can 
be clearly seen from the side. Only a healthcare professional who is competent in minor surgery 
and is trained in the insertion of Sixmo should perform the procedure, using only the implant 
applicator, with the recommended local anaesthetic available.  
One applicator is used to insert all four implants.  
Please note that an ultrasound and MRI facilities need to be available to the clinical site at 
which the insertion and removal of Sixmo occurs.  
Patients who have contraindications for MRI should be not allowed to receive the implant. 
• 
• 
• 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equipment for subcutaneous insertion of Sixmo 
The following equipment is needed for implant insertion under aseptic conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
an examination table for the patient to lie on 
instrument stand covered with sterile drape 
adequate lighting, such as headlamp 
sterile fenestrated drape 
latex, talc-free sterile gloves 
alcohol pad  
surgical marker 
antiseptic solution, such as chlorhexidine 
local anaesthetic, such as 1% lidocaine with adrenaline 1:100,000 
5 mL syringe with 25G×1.5" needle (0.5×38 mm)  
Adson single tooth tissue forceps 
#15 blade scalpel 
thin adhesive strip around 6 mm wide (butterfly strip) 
100×100 mm sterile gauze  
adhesive bandages 
pressure bandage around 8 cm wide 
liquid adhesive 
4 Sixmo implants 
1 implant applicator 
The implant applicator (disposable) and its parts are shown in Figure 1. 
Figure 1 
Instructions for subcutaneous insertion of Sixmo 
Step 1: The patient should lie on their back, with the intended arm flexed at the elbow and externally 
rotated, so that the hand is positioned next to the head. Identify the insertion site, which is at the inner 
side of the upper arm, about 80 to 100 mm (8 to 10 cm) above the medial epicondyle, in the sulcus 
between the biceps and triceps muscle. Having the patient flex the biceps muscle may facilitate 
identification of the site (Figure 2). 
Figure 2 
Step 2: Clean the insertion site with an alcohol pad. Mark the insertion site with the surgical marker. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The implants will be inserted through a small 2.5 to 3 mm subcutaneous incision. Mark the channel 
tracks where each implant will be inserted by drawing 4 lines - with each line 40 mm long. The 
implants will be positioned in a close fan-shaped distribution 4 to 6 mm apart, with the fan opening 
towards the shoulder (Figure 3). 
Figure 3 
Step 3: Put on sterile gloves and check the function of the implant applicator by removing the 
obturator from the cannula and relocking it. Clean the insertion site with an antiseptic solution, such as 
chlorhexidine. Do not blot or wipe away. 
Apply the sterile fenestrated drape to the patient’s arm (Figure 4). Anaesthetise the insertion area at 
the incision site and just under the skin, along the planned insertion channels, by injecting 5 mL 
lidocaine 1% with adrenaline 1:100,000. After determining that anaesthesia is adequate and effective, 
make a shallow incision 2.5 to 3 mm in length at incision site marking.  
Figure 4 
Step 4: Lift the edge of the incision opening with the toothed forceps. While applying counter-traction 
to the skin, at a slight angle (no greater than 20 degrees), insert only the tip of the applicator into the 
subcutaneous space (depth of 3 to 4 mm below the skin), with the bevel-up stop marking on the 
cannula facing upwards and visible with the obturator locked fully into the cannula (Figure 5).  
Figure 5 
Step 5: Lower the applicator to a horizontal position; lift the skin up with the tip of the applicator, but 
keep the cannula in the subcutaneous connective tissue (Figure 6).  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 
Step 6: While lifting, gently advance the applicator subcutaneously along the channel marking on the 
skin. Stop immediately once the proximal marking on the cannula has disappeared into the incision 
(Figures 7 and 8). 
Figure 7 
Figure 8 
Step 7: While holding the cannula in place, unlock the obturator and remove the obturator. Insert one 
implant into the cannula (Figure 9), re-insert the obturator, and gently push the obturator forward 
(mild resistance should be felt) until the obturator stop line is level with the bevel-up stop marking, 
which indicates the implant is positioned at the tip of the cannula (Figure 10). Do not force the 
implant beyond the end of the cannula with the obturator. There should be at least 5 mm between 
the incision and the implant when the implant is properly positioned. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 
Figure 10 
Step 8: While holding the obturator in place on the arm, retract the cannula along the obturator, 
leaving the implant in place (Figure 11). Note: Do not push the obturator. Withdraw the cannula 
until the hub is flush with the obturator, then twist the obturator clockwise to lock onto the cannula 
(Figure 12). Retract the applicator, bevel-up, until the distal marking of the cannula is visible at the 
incision opening (the sharp tip remaining in the subcutaneous space). 
Figure 11 
Figure 12 
Step 9: Redirect the applicator to the next channel marking, while stabilizing the previously inserted 
implant with your index finger, away from the sharp tip (Figure 13). Follow steps 6 through 9 for the 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
insertion of the three remaining implants through the same incision. 
Figure 13 
Step 10: Verify the presence of each implant (26.5 mm in length) by palpation of the patient’s arm 
immediately after the insertion, as shown in Figure 14. If you cannot feel each of the four implants, or 
doubt their presence, use other methods to confirm the presence of the implant. 
Figure 14 
Step 11: Apply pressure to the incision site for approximately five minutes if necessary. Clean the 
incision site. Apply liquid adhesive to the skin margins and allow to dry before closing the incision 
with the thin adhesive strip around 6 mm wide (butterfly strip). Place a small adhesive bandage over 
the insertion site. Apply a pressure bandage with sterile gauze to minimize bruising. Instruct the 
patient that the pressure bandage can be removed after 24 hours and the adhesive bandage removed in 
three to five days, and to apply an ice pack on the arm for 40 minutes every two hours for the first 
24 hours, then as needed. 
Step 12: Complete the Patient Alert Card and give it to the patient to keep. Also, scan or input the 
details of the implant procedure into the patient’s medical records. Advise the patient on proper care of 
the insertion site. 
Instruction for location of implants prior to removal 
Verify the location of the implants by palpation. Non-palpable implants must be located prior to 
attempted removal. In the case of non-palpable implants, removal should be performed under 
ultrasound guidance (following their localisation). Suitable methods for location include ultrasound 
with a high frequency linear array transducer (10 MHz or greater) or, in case ultrasound is not 
successful, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Sixmo implants are not radiopaque and cannot be seen 
by X-ray or CT scan. Exploratory surgery without knowledge of the exact location of all implants is 
strongly discouraged (see section 4.4). 
Equipment for removal of Sixmo  
Implants should be removed under aseptic conditions, whereby the following equipment is needed: 
• 
• 
• 
an examination table for the patient to lie on 
instrument stand covered with sterile drape 
adequate lighting, such as headlamp 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
sterile fenestrated drapes 
latex, talc-free, sterile gloves 
alcohol pad 
surgical marker 
antiseptic solution, such as chlorhexidine 
local anaesthetic, such as 1% lidocaine with adrenaline 1:100,000 
5 mL syringe with 25G×1.5" needle (0.5×38 mm)  
Adson single tooth tissue forceps 
mosquito forceps 
two X-plant clamps (vasectomy fixation clamps with 2.5 mm ring diameter) 
iris scissors  
needle driver 
#15 blade scalpel 
sterile ruler 
100×100 mm sterile gauze 
adhesive bandage 
pressure bandage around 8 cm wide 
sutures, such as 4-0 Prolene™ with an FS-2 cutting needle (may be absorbable) 
Instructions for removal of Sixmo 
Step 13: The patient should lie on their back, with the implant arm flexed at the elbow and externally 
rotated, so that the hand is positioned next to the head. Reconfirm the location of the implants by 
palpation. Clean removal site with alcohol pad prior to marking the skin. Using the surgical marker, 
mark the location of the implants and the location of the incision. The incision should be made parallel 
to the axis of the arm, between the second and third implants, to access the subcutaneous space 
(Figure 15). 
Figure 15 
Step 14: Put on sterile gloves. Using aseptic technique, place the sterile equipment on the sterile field 
of the instrument stand. Clean the removal site with an antiseptic solution, such as chlorhexidine. Do 
not blot or wipe away. Apply the sterile drape to the patient’s arm. Anaesthetise the incision site and 
the subcutaneous space containing the implants (for example, by injecting 5 to 7 mL lidocaine 1% 
with adrenaline 1:100,000).  
NOTE: Be sure to inject the local anaesthetic deep to the centre of the implants; this will effectively 
lift the implants toward the skin, facilitating removal of the implants. After determining the 
anaesthesia is adequate and effective, make a 7 to 10 mm incision with a scalpel, parallel to the axis of 
the arm, between the second and third implants. 
Step 15: Pick up the skin edge with Adson single toothed tissue forceps and separate the tissues above 
and below the visible implant, using an iris scissors or a curved mosquito forceps (Figure 16). 
Grasp the centre of the implant with the X-plant clamp(s) (Figure 17) and apply gentle traction. If the 
implant is encapsulated, or you see dimpling, use the scalpel to shave the adhering tissue to release the 
implant. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 16 
Figure 17 
Step 16: After removal of each implant, confirm that the entire 26.5 mm long implant has been 
removed by measuring its length. Follow steps 15 and 16 for the removal of the remaining implants 
through the same incision. The same technique is employed for the removal of protruding or partially 
expelled implants. Exploratory surgery without knowledge of the exact location of all implants is 
strongly discouraged (see section 4.4). 
Step 17: After removal of all implants, clean the incision site. Close the incision with sutures. Place an 
adhesive bandage over the incision. Use the sterile gauze and apply gentle pressure to the incision site, 
for five minutes, to ensure haemostasis. Apply a pressure bandage with sterile gauze to minimize 
bruising. Instruct the patient that the pressure bandage can be removed after 24 hours and the adhesive 
bandage in three to five days. Counsel the patient on proper aseptic wound care. Instruct the patient to 
apply an ice pack to the arm for 40 minutes every two hours for first 24 hours, then as needed. 
Schedule an appointment for the sutures to be removed. 
Step 18: Disposal of Sixmo implants should be in accordance with local requirements as it contains 
buprenorphine. 
If implant(s) or implant fragment(s) are not removed during a removal attempt, the patient should 
undergo imaging for localisation as soon as is feasible with the subsequent removal attempt performed 
on the same day as localisation. If localisation and a second removal attempt are not performed on the 
same day as the initial removal attempt, the wound should be closed with sutures in the interim. 
11 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Severe respiratory insufficiency  
Severe hepatic impairment 
Acute alcoholism or delirium tremens 
Concomitant administration of opioid antagonists (naltrexone, nalmefene) for the treatment of alcohol 
or opioid dependence 
Patients with a history of keloid or hypertrophic scar formation should not undergo subcutaneous 
insertion, as difficulties in retrieving the implant are possible. 
Patients who have contraindications for MRI. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Treatment monitoring 
Patients may experience somnolence, especially in the first week following insertion of the implants 
and should be cautioned in this respect (see section 4.7). 
The insertion site should be examined one week following implant insertion and regularly thereafter 
for signs of infection or any problems with wound healing, including evidence of implant extrusion 
from the skin as well as misuse or abuse. The recommended visit schedule for most patients is a 
frequency of no less than once-monthly for continued counselling and psychosocial support.  
Serious complications from insertion and removal of Sixmo implants 
Rare but serious complications, including nerve damage and migration resulting in embolism and 
death, may result from improper insertion of drug implants in the upper arm. Additional complications 
may include local migration, protrusion, expulsion and implant breakage after insertion or during 
removal. Surgical intervention is necessary for removing an implant that has migrated. 
Subcutaneous insertion is essential to confirm proper placement by palpation. If implants are placed 
too deeply (intramuscular or in the fascia) this may lead to neural or vascular injury upon insertion or 
removal. 
Infection may occur at the site of the insertion or removal. Excessive palpation shortly after insertion 
of the implants may increase the chance of infection. Improper removal carries risk of implant-site 
infection and implant breakage.  
In rare cases, implants or partial implants could not be localized and were, therefore, not removed (see 
section 4.2). 
Expulsion of the implant 
• 
If spontaneous expulsion of the implant occurs after insertion, the following steps should be taken: 
• 
An appointment for the patient should be scheduled to return to the inserting healthcare 
professional as soon as possible. 
The patient should be instructed to place the implant in a glass jar with a lid, store it safely away 
from others, especially children, and bring it to the healthcare professional to determine whether 
the full implant has been expelled. 
Please note: Buprenorphine can cause severe, possibly fatal, respiratory depression in children 
who are accidentally exposed to it. 
If the patient returns the expelled implant, it should be measured to ensure that the entire 
implant was expelled (26.5 mm in length). 
The incision site should be inspected for infection. If infected, it should be treated appropriately 
and be determined if remaining implants need to be removed. 
• 
• 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If the expelled implant is not intact, the healthcare professional should palpate the insertion 
location to identify the location of any remaining partial implant. The remaining partial implant 
should be removed using the techniques described in section 4.2 under “Instructions for removal 
of Sixmo”. 
If it is not possible to palpate the remaining implant, an ultrasound or MRI should be performed 
per techniques described in section 4.2 under “Instructions for removal of Sixmo”. 
The healthcare professional must carefully monitor the patient until the implant is replaced to 
evaluate for withdrawal or other clinical indicators suggesting that supplemental sublingual 
buprenorphine may be needed. 
The replacement implant(s) should be inserted in same arm either medially or laterally to in situ 
implants. Alternatively, replacement implant(s) may be inserted in the contralateral arm. 
Misuse and diversion 
Buprenorphine has the potential to be abused and is prone to criminal diversion. Sixmo is formulated 
as a diversion and abuse deterrent formulation. Nevertheless, it is possible to extract the buprenorphine 
from the Sixmo implant. These risks and the patient’s stability in treatment for opioid dependence 
should be considered when determining whether Sixmo is appropriate for the patient.  
Abuse of buprenorphine poses a risk of overdose and death. This risk is increased with the 
concomitant abuse of buprenorphine and alcohol and other substances, especially benzodiazepines.  
All patients receiving Sixmo should be monitored for conditions indicative of diversion, or 
progression of opioid dependence and addictive behaviours suggesting the need for more intensive and 
structured treatment for substance use. 
Dependence 
Buprenorphine is a partial agonist at the µ (mu)-opioid receptor and chronic administration produces 
dependence of the opioid type. Studies in animals, as well as clinical experience, have demonstrated 
that buprenorphine may produce dependence, but at a lower level than a full agonist, e.g. morphine.  
If Sixmo implants are not immediately replaced upon removal, patients should be maintained on 
sublingual buprenorphine (2 to 8 mg/day), as clinically indicated, until Sixmo treatment is resumed. 
Patients who elect to discontinue Sixmo treatment should be monitored for withdrawal syndrome, with 
consideration given to use of a tapering dose of sublingual buprenorphine. 
Precipitation of opioid withdrawal syndrome 
The partial opioid agonist properties of buprenorphine may precipitate opioid withdrawal signs and 
symptoms in persons who are currently physically dependent on full opioid agonists - such as heroin, 
morphine, or methadone - before the effects of the full opioid agonist have subsided. Verify that 
patients have completed an appropriate induction period with sublingual buprenorphine or 
buprenorphine/naloxone, or are already clinically stable on buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone 
before inserting Sixmo implants (see section 4.2).  
Respiratory and central nervous system (CNS) depression 
A number of cases of death due to respiratory depression have been reported while on buprenorphine, 
particularly when buprenorphine was used in combination with benzodiazepines (see section 4.5) or 
when buprenorphine was not used according to prescribing information. Deaths have also been 
reported in association with concomitant administration of buprenorphine and other depressants such 
as alcohol or other opioids. If buprenorphine is administered to some non-opioid dependent 
individuals, who are not tolerant to the effects of opioids, potentially fatal respiratory depression may 
occur. 
This product should be used with caution in patients with asthma or respiratory insufficiency (e.g. 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cor pulmonale, decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypercapnia, pre-existing respiratory depression or kyphoscoliosis [curvature of spine leading to 
potential shortness of breath]). 
Buprenorphine may cause drowsiness, particularly when taken together with alcohol or CNS 
depressants (such as tranquilisers, sedatives or hypnotics) (see section 4.5). 
Prior to initiating Sixmo therapy, the patient’s medical and treatment history, including use of non-
opioid psychoactive substances, needs to be reviewed, in order to ensure that Sixmo treatment can be 
safely initiated. 
Hepatitis and hepatic events 
Cases of acute hepatic injury (including fatal cases) have been reported with the active substance 
buprenorphine in opioid-dependent addicts both in clinical trials and in post marketing adverse 
reaction reports. The spectrum of abnormalities ranges from transient asymptomatic elevations in 
hepatic transaminases to case reports of hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatorenal syndrome, 
hepatic encephalopathy and death. In many cases the presence of pre-existing hepatic impairment 
(genetic disease, liver enzyme abnormalities, infection with hepatitis B or hepatitis C virus, alcohol 
abuse, anorexia, concomitant use of other potentially hepatotoxic medicines) and ongoing injecting 
drug use may have a causative or contributory role. These underlying factors including confirmation 
of viral hepatitis status must be taken into consideration before prescribing Sixmo and during 
treatment. When a hepatic event is suspected, liver function evaluation is required, including 
consideration whether to discontinue treatment with Sixmo. If the treatment is continued, hepatic 
function should be monitored closely.  
Hepatic impairment 
Buprenorphine is extensively metabolized in the liver. In a pharmacokinetic study with sublingual 
buprenorphine, buprenorphine plasma levels were found to be higher and the half-life was found to be 
longer in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment, but not in patients with mild hepatic 
impairment (see section 5.2). Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment should be monitored 
for signs and symptoms of toxicity, or overdose caused by increased levels of buprenorphine (see 
section 4.2). 
Treatment of acute pain during Sixmo therapy 
While on Sixmo, situations may arise where patients need acute pain management or anaesthesia. 
Treat these patients with a non-opioid analgesic whenever possible. Patients requiring opioid therapy 
for analgesia may be treated with a high-affinity full opioid analgesic under the supervision of a 
healthcare professional, with particular attention to respiratory function. Higher doses may be required 
for analgesic effect. Therefore, a higher potential for toxicity exists with opioid administration. If 
opioid therapy is required as part of anaesthesia, patients should be continuously monitored in an 
anaesthesia care setting by persons not involved in the conduct of the surgical or diagnostic procedure. 
The opioid therapy must be provided by healthcare professionals trained in the use of anaesthetic 
medicinal products and the management of the respiratory effects of potent opioids, specifically the 
establishment and maintenance of a patent airway and assisted ventilation. 
Renal impairment 
Renal elimination may be prolonged since 30% of the administered dose is eliminated by the renal 
route. Metabolites of buprenorphine accumulate in patients with renal failure. Caution is 
recommended when dosing patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CYP3A inhibitors  
Medicines that inhibit the enzyme CYP3A4 may give rise to increased concentrations of 
buprenorphine. Patients receiving Sixmo should be closely monitored for signs of toxicity if combined 
with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. protease inhibitors like ritonavir, nelfinavir or indinavir, or azole 
antifungals such as ketoconazole and itraconazole, or macrolide antibiotics). The healthcare 
professional should review the patient’s treatment history for concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors 
prior to initiating Sixmo treatment to determine suitability (see section 4.5). 
General precautions relevant to the administration of opioids 
Opioids may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. 
Opioids may elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure, which may cause seizures, so opioids should be used 
with caution in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions, other circumstances where cerebrospinal 
pressure may be increased, or history of seizure. 
Opioids should be used with caution in patients with hypotension, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral 
stenosis. 
Opioid-induced miosis, changes in the level of consciousness, or changes in the perception of pain as a 
symptom of disease may interfere with patient evaluation or obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of 
concomitant disease. 
Opioids should be used with caution in patients with myxoedema, hypothyroidism or adrenal cortical 
insufficiency (e.g. Addison's disease). 
Opioids have been shown to increase intracholedochal pressure, and should be used with caution in 
patients with dysfunction of the biliary tract. 
Opioids should be administered with caution to elderly or debilitated patients. 
The concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) might produce an exaggeration of the 
effects of opioids, based on experience with morphine (see section 4.5). 
Serotonin syndrome 
Concomitant administration of Sixmo and other serotonergic agents, such as MAO inhibitors, selective 
serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitors (SNRIs) or 
tricyclic antidepressants may result in serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition (see 
section 4.5).  
If concomitant treatment with other serotonergic agents is clinically warranted, careful observation of 
the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases.  
Symptoms of serotonin syndrome may include mental-status changes, autonomic instability, 
neuromuscular abnormalities, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms. 
If serotonin syndrome is suspected, a dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy should be 
considered depending on the severity of the symptoms. 
Skin 
Sixmo should also be administered with caution in patients with a history of connective tissue disease 
(e.g. scleroderma) or history of recurrent methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infections. 
Sixmo is contraindicated in patients with a history of keloid or hypertrophic scar formation at the site 
where Sixmo would be implanted, as difficulties in retrieving the implant are possible (see section 
4.3). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Buprenorphine should not be administered together with:  
• 
Alcoholic drinks or medicines containing alcohol, as alcohol increases the sedative effect of 
buprenorphine.  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Buprenorphine should be used cautiously when co-administered with:  
• 
Benzodiazepines: This combination may result in death due to respiratory depression of central 
origin. Therefore, dosages must be limited and this combination must be avoided in cases where 
there is a risk of misuse. Patients should be warned that it is extremely dangerous to self-
administer non-prescribed benzodiazepines while taking this product, and should also be 
cautioned to use benzodiazepines concurrently with this product only as directed by their 
healthcare professional (see section 4.4).  
Other CNS depressants: Other opioid derivatives (e.g. methadone, analgesics and antitussives), 
certain antidepressants, sedative H1-receptor antagonists, barbiturates, anxiolytics other than 
benzodiazepines, neuroleptics, clonidine and related substances: these combinations increase 
CNS depression. The reduced level of alertness can make driving and using machines hazardous 
(see section 4.7).  
Opioid analgesics: Adequate analgesia may be difficult to achieve when administering a full 
opioid agonist in patients receiving buprenorphine. Therefore, the potential to overdose with a 
full agonist exists, especially when attempting to overcome buprenorphine partial agonist 
effects, or when buprenorphine plasma levels are declining (see section 4.4). 
Opioid antagonists: naltrexone and nalmefene can block the pharmacological effects of 
buprenorphine. Co-administration during buprenorphine treatment is contraindicated due to the 
potentially dangerous interaction that may precipitate a sudden onset of prolonged and intense 
opioid withdrawal symptoms (see section 4.3).  
CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers: Buprenorphine is metabolized to norbuprenorphine primarily 
by CYP3A4; therefore, potential interactions may occur when Sixmo is given concurrently with 
medicinal products that affect CYP3A4 activity. CYP3A4 inhibitors may inhibit the metabolism 
of buprenorphine resulting in increased Cmax and AUC of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine. 
Patients treated with CYP inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, troleandomycin, 
clarithromycin, nelfinavir, nefazodone, verapamil, diltiazem, amiodarone, amprenavir, 
fosamprenavir, aprepitant, fluconazole, erythromycin and grapefruit juice) should be monitored 
for signs and symptoms of toxicity or overdose (miosis, lip cyanosis, sedation, bradycardia, 
hypotension, respiratory depression). In case toxicity or overdose symptoms are observed, the 
removal of the implants and transition to a medicinal product that allows dose adjustment are 
required. 
Similarly, inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g. phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin) may 
have the potential to reduce buprenorphine plasma concentrations because of increased 
metabolism of buprenorphine to norbuprenorphine. 
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI): Possible exacerbation of the effects of opioids, based 
on experience with morphine. 
Serotonergic medicinal products, such as MAO inhibitors, selective serotonin re-uptake 
inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitors (SNRIs) or tricyclic 
antidepressants as the risk of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, is 
increased (see section 4.4).  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited data from the use of buprenorphine in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown.  
Towards the end of pregnancy buprenorphine may induce respiratory depression in the newborn infant 
even after a short period of administration. Long-term administration of buprenorphine during the last 
three months of pregnancy may cause a withdrawal syndrome in the neonate (e.g. hypertonia, neonatal 
tremor, neonatal agitation, myoclonus or convulsions). The syndrome may be milder and more 
protracted than that from short acting full μ-opioid agonists. The syndrome is generally delayed for 
several hours to several days after birth. The nature of the syndrome may vary depending upon the 
mother’s drug use history. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the long half-life of buprenorphine, neonatal monitoring for several days should be considered 
at the end of pregnancy, to prevent the risk of respiratory depression or withdrawal syndrome in 
neonates.  
Due to the inflexibility with regard to dose increases and to the increased dose requirements during 
pregnancy, Sixmo is not considered to be an optimal treatment choice for pregnant women, therefore 
treatment with Sixmo should not be started in pregnant women. Sixmo is not recommended during 
pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. If pregnancy occurs during 
treatment with Sixmo the benefit to the patient should be weighed against the risk to the foetus. 
Generally, other buprenorphine treatments/formulations are considered more appropriate in this 
situation. 
Breast-feeding 
Buprenorphine and its metabolites are excreted in human milk to such an extent that effects on the 
breastfed newborns/infants are likely. Therefore, breastfeeding should be discontinued during 
treatment with Sixmo. 
Fertility 
There are no or limited data on effects of buprenorphine on human fertility (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Buprenorphine can influence the ability to drive and use machines and may impair the mental or 
physical abilities required for the performance of potentially dangerous tasks such as driving a car or 
operating machinery. This product may cause dizziness, somnolence or sedation especially at the start 
of treatment.  
Plasma concentrations of buprenorphine after insertion of Sixmo are highest during the first 24 to 
48 hours. In particular, patients may experience somnolence for up to one week after subcutaneous 
insertion; therefore, they should be cautioned about driving or operating hazardous machinery 
especially during this time period. Before engaging driving or operating hazardous machinery patients 
should be reasonably certain that Sixmo does not adversely affect their ability to engage in such 
activities. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of Sixmo was evaluated in five Phase 3 studies (3 double-blind and placebo and/or active-
controlled studies, and two open-label extension studies).  
Adverse drug reactions were categorized as implant or non-implant adverse reactions. The most 
frequent non-implant adverse reactions in clinical studies with Sixmo were headache, constipation and 
insomnia. These are very common or common adverse reactions with buprenorphine. 
Implant site related adverse reactions with the current (and commercially used) insertion and removal 
techniques were reported in 25.9% and 14.1% of patients in the double-blind and extension studies, 
respectively. Most frequent implant adverse reactions were implant site pain, implant site pruritus, 
implant site haematoma, implant site haemorrhage, implant site erythema and implant site rash.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions (implant and non-implant) reported are listed in the following table. These adverse 
reactions are presented by MedDRA system organ class, preferred term, and frequency.  
Frequency categories are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1:  Adverse reactions reported in clinical studies and from post-marketing data with 
Sixmo and/or reported with other buprenorphine product 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Frequency 
common 
uncommon 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
uncommon 
common 
uncommon 
Psychiatric disorders 
common 
uncommon 
Nervous system disorders 
common 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective disorders 
uncommon 
common 
uncommon 
common 
uncommon 
common 
common 
uncommon 
common 
uncommon 
common 
uncommon 
common 
uncommon 
Renal and urinary disorders  uncommon 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
uncommon 
common 
Adverse reactions 
viral infection, bronchitis**, infection**, 
influenza**, pharyngitis**, rhinitis** 
cellulitis, skin infection, peritonsillar abscess, 
rash pustular, urinary tract infection, vulvovaginal 
mycotic infection, implant site infection*, implant 
site abscess* 
lymphadenopathy, neutropenia 
decreased appetite 
abnormal weight gain, dehydration, increased 
appetite 
insomnia, anxiety, hostility**, nervousness**, 
paranoia** 
depression, libido decreased, sleep disorder, 
apathy, euphoric mood, orgasmic sensation 
decreased, restlessness, irritability, drug 
dependence***, agitation***, thinking 
abnormal*** 
headache, dizziness, somnolence, hypertonia**, 
syncope** 
hypoaesthesia, migraine, depressed level of 
consciousness, hypersomnia, paraesthesia, tremor  
mydriasis** 
eye discharge, lacrimal disorder, vision blurred 
palpitations**  
atrial flutter, bradycardia 
hot flush, vasodilatation**, hypertension** 
cough**, dyspnoea** 
respiratory depression, yawning 
constipation, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
abdominal pain, gastrointestinal disorder**, tooth 
disorder** 
dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, haematochezia 
hyperhidrosis 
cold sweat, dry skin, rash, skin lesion, 
ecchymosis* 
bone pain**, myalgia** 
muscle spasms, limb discomfort, musculoskeletal 
pain, neck pain, pain in extremity, 
temporomandibular joint syndrome, arthralgia*** 
urinary hesitation, micturition urgency, 
pollakisuria 
dysmenorrhoea, erectile dysfunction  
fatigue, chills, asthenia, pain, implant site 
haematoma*, implant site pain*, implant site 
pruritus*, implant site haemorrhage*, implant site 
erythema*, implant site scar*, chest pain**, 
malaise***, drug withdrawal syndrome*** 
18 
 
System organ class 
Frequency 
uncommon 
Investigations 
common 
uncommon 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
common 
uncommon 
Adverse reactions 
oedema peripheral, discomfort, face oedema, 
feeling cold, pyrexia, swelling, implant site 
oedema*, implant site reaction*, device 
expulsion*, impaired healing*, implant site 
paraesthesia*, implant site rash*, scarring * 
alanine aminotransferase increased 
aspartate aminotransferase increased, weight 
decreased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, 
gamma-glutamyl-transferase increased, weight 
increased, blood alkaline phosphatase decreased, 
amylase increased, blood bicarbonate increased, 
blood bilirubin increased, blood cholesterol 
decreased, blood glucose increased, haematocrit 
decreased, haemoglobin decreased, lipase 
increased, lymphocyte count decreased, mean cell 
haemoglobin increased, mean cell volume 
abnormal, monocyte count increased, neutrophil 
count increased, platelet count decreased, red 
blood cell count decreased 
procedural pain*, procedural site reaction* 
post procedural complication (*), contusion (*), 
wound dehiscence*, migration of implanted 
drug***, device breakage*** 
* Implant site adverse drug reaction 
(*) Observed as implant and non-implant site adverse drug reaction 
** Reported with other approved buprenorphine only medicinal product 
*** Post-marketing data only 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Risk of serious complications of insertion and removal of implants 
Rare but serious complications including nerve damage and migration resulting in embolism and death 
may result from improper insertion of drug implants (see section 4.4). In the post-marketing setting, 2 
cases were reported where Sixmo implants had locally migrated from the insertion site. In 3 patients 
treated in clinical studies, and in 1 patient treated during post-marketing, implants or fragments could 
not be located and were, therefore, not removed at the end of the treatment. In clinical studies and 
from post-marketing data 7 cases of clinically relevant implant breakage (breakage associated with an 
adverse reaction) were observed. 
Risk of expulsion 
Improper insertions or infections may lead to protrusion or expulsion. Few cases of protrusion or 
expulsion of implants, mainly attributed to improper insertion technique, were reported in clinical 
studies with Sixmo (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
The manifestations of acute buprenorphine overdose include pinpoint pupils, sedation, hypotension, 
respiratory depression and death. 
Treatment 
Priorities are the re-establishment of a patient and protected airway and institution of assisted 
ventilation, if needed. Supportive measures (including oxygen, vasopressors) should be employed in 
the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary oedema as indicated. Cardiac arrest or 
arrhythmias will require advanced life support techniques. 
The opioid antagonist naloxone is a specific antidote to respiratory depression resulting from opioid 
overdose. Naloxone may be of value for the management of buprenorphine overdose. Higher than 
normal doses and repeated administration may be necessary.  
Healthcare professionals should consider the potential role and contribution of buprenorphine when 
given in conjunction with other CNS depressant medicinal products, CYP3A4 inhibitors, other opioids 
and in cases of hepatic impairment when determining whether the implants should be removed (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other nervous system drugs, Drugs used in opioid dependence, ATC code: 
N07BC01 
Mechanism of action 
Buprenorphine is an opioid partial agonist/antagonist which binds to the μ (mu) and κ (kappa) 
receptors of the brain. Its activity in opioid maintenance treatment is attributed to its slowly reversible 
properties at the µ receptors which, over a prolonged period, minimises the need for use of other 
opioids. 
During clinical pharmacologic studies in opioid-dependent patients, buprenorphine shows ceiling 
effects on a number of PD and safety parameters. It has a relatively wide therapeutic window as a 
consequence of its partial agonist/antagonist properties, which attenuates suppression of 
cardiovascular and respiratory function. 
Clinical efficacy and safety with Sixmo 
The safety and efficacy of Sixmo was investigated in 3 double-blind Phase 3 clinical studies in which 
a total of 309 patients were treated with Sixmo for up to 6 months (1 implant cycle). Of these 
309 patients, 107 patients were treated for an additional 6 months in extension studies (i.e. for 
2 implant cycles). 
The demonstration of efficacy relies primarily on study PRO-814, a randomized, double-blind and 
active-controlled Phase 3 study in adult patients who met DSM-IV-TR criteria for opioid dependence 
and who were clinically stabilised on sublingual buprenorphine. In this study, approximately 75% of 
patients reported prescription opioids as the primary opioid of abuse, and 21% of patients reported 
heroin as the primary opioid of abuse. The implant time was 24 weeks. This study enrolled 84 patients 
in the Sixmo group and 89 patients in the sublingual buprenorphine group, with a median age (range) 
of 36 (21 to 63) years and 37 (22 to 64) years in the Sixmo and sublingual buprenorphine groups, 
respectively. In this double-blind and double-dummy study, patients maintained on doses of sublingual 
buprenorphine of 8 mg/day or less were transferred to 4 Sixmo implants (and daily sublingual 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo), or sublingual buprenorphine 8 mg/day or less (and 4 placebo implants). The primary 
endpoint was proportion of responders, defined as patients with no more than 2 of 6 months with 
evidence of illicit opioid use based on a composite of both urine and self-report results. This endpoint 
was considered to be of clinical relevance in the targeted indication. Sixmo was shown to be non-
inferior to sublingual buprenorphine, the proportion of responders being 87.6% in the sublingual 
buprenorphine and 96.4% in the Sixmo group. Furthermore, after establishment of non-inferiority, 
superiority of Sixmo over sublingual buprenorphine was tested and established (p=0.034). Retention in 
treatment was high, with 96.4% of Sixmo patients and 94.4% of sublingual buprenorphine patients 
completing the study. 
Two additional randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies provide supportive data 
on efficacy and PK (Studies PRO-805 and PRO-806). In both studies adult patients with opioid 
dependence who were new entrants to buprenorphine treatment were treated over 24 weeks with 
4 Sixmo or 4 placebo implants. Patients not adequately treated with the 4 implant dose could receive a 
fifth implant. Study PRO-806 included an open-label comparator arm with sublingual buprenorphine 
(12 to 16 mg/day). Patients in all groups were allowed to use supplemental sublingual buprenorphine 
to control potential withdrawal symptoms/cravings according to pre-specified criteria. 
Patient characteristics in these studies are shown below. 
Table 2: 
Patient characteristics in the studies PRO-805 and PRO-806 
Study PRO-805 
Sixmo 
N=108 
Placebo 
N=55 
Study PRO-806 
Sixmo 
N=114 
Placebo 
N=54 
33 (19 - 62) 
39 (20 - 61) 
36 (19 - 60) 
33 (19 - 59) 
sublingual 
buprenorphine 
N=119 
32 (18 - 60) 
69 (63.9%) 
39 (36.1%) 
34 (61.8%) 
21 (38.2%) 
76 (66.7%) 
38 (33.3%) 
28 (51.9%) 
26 (48.1%) 
75 (63.0%) 
43 (36.1%)* 
Median age 
(range), years 
Primary opioid of 
abuse, n (%) 
Heroin 
Prescription 
opioids 
* For 1 patient (0.8%) primary opioid of abuse was “other”. 
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was the cumulative distribution function (CDF) of the 
percentage of urine samples that were negative for illicit opioids (as evaluated through thrice weekly 
urine toxicology and patient self-reported opioid use).  
In study PRO-805, the primary endpoint was the CDF of the percentage of urine samples that were 
negative for illicit opioids over weeks 1 to 16, while the CDF over weeks 17 to 24 was evaluated as 
secondary endpoint. 
Table 3: 
Percentage of Opioid-Negative Urine Samples for Weeks 1 to 16 and Weeks 17 to 24, 
Study PRO-805 (ITT) 
Percentage of negative results 
Weeks 1 to 16 
Mean (SE) 
CI of mean 
Median (Range) 
Weeks 17 to 24 
Mean (SE) 
CI of mean 
Median (Range) 
Sixmo 
N=108 
40.4 (3.15) 
34.18, 46.68 
40.7 (0, 98) 
29.0 (3.34)  
22.41, 35.66  
4.4 (0, 100) 
Placebo 
N=55 
28.3 (3.97) 
20.33, 36.26 
20.8 (0, 92) 
10.7 (3.19)  
4.33, 17.12  
0.0 (0, 92) 
CI=confidence interval, ITT=intent-to-treat, N=number of subjects, SE=standard error 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the analysis of the CDF (weeks 1 to 16), a statistically significant difference between treatments 
(p=0.0361) was seen, which was in favour of Sixmo.  
Figure 1:  Cumulative Distribution Function of the Percentage of Urine Samples Negative for 
Opioids in Weeks 1-16, Study PRO-805 (ITT) 
ITT=intent-to-treat 
Buprenorphine was not included in urine toxicology assessments. 
Study PRO-806 had two co-primary endpoints, which were the CDF of the percentage of urine 
samples that were negative for illicit opioids for Weeks 1 to 24 in the Sixmo and placebo groups (co-
primary 1), and the CDF of the percentage of urine samples that were negative for illicit opioids for 
Weeks 1 to 24 in the Sixmo and placebo groups, with imputation based on illicit drug self-report data 
(co-primary 2).  
Table 4: 
Percentage of Opioid-Negative Urine Samples for Weeks 1 to 24, Study PRO-806 
(ITT) 
Percentage of negative 
results 
Sixmo 
N=114 
Mean (SE) 
CI of mean 
31.21 (2.968) 
25.33, 37.09 
Placebo 
N=54 
13.41 (2.562) 
Sublingual 
buprenorphine 
N=119 
33.48 (3.103) 
8.27, 18.55 
27.33, 39.62 
Median (Range) 
20.28 (0.0, 98.6) 
9.03 (0.0, 97.3) 
16.33 (0.0, 98.6) 
CI=confidence interval, ITT=intent-to-treat, N=number of subjects, SE=standard error 
In the analysis of the CDF (co-primary endpoint 1), a statistically significant difference between 
treatments (p<0.0001) was seen, which was in favour of Sixmo.  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2:  Cumulative Distribution Function of the Percentage of Urine Samples Negative for 
Opioids in Weeks 1-24 (co-primary endpoint 1), Study PRO-806 (ITT Population) 
ITT=intent-to-treat, SL BPN = sublingual buprenorphine 
Buprenorphine was not included in urine toxicology assessments. 
The CDF results for co-primary endpoint 2 were fundamentally the same as for endpoint 1 
(p < 0.0001). 
A key secondary endpoint in Study PRO-806 was the difference in proportions of urine samples that 
were negative for opioids over 24 weeks for Sixmo versus sublingual buprenorphine. Despite the use 
of an open-label comparator arm, this endpoint is considered robust, as it is based on urine toxicology. 
In this analysis, the percentage of opioid negative urines in the sublingual buprenorphine group was 
very similar to the results in the Sixmo group (33% versus 31%), and non-inferiority of Sixmo to 
sublingual buprenorphine was shown. 
In Studies PRO-805 and PRO-806, 62.0% and 39.5% of Sixmo-treated subjects required supplemental 
SL buprenorphine. The mean doses per week in Sixmo subjects in PRO-805 and PRO-806 studies 
were 5.16 mg and 3.16 mg, with relatively low mean days of use per week of 0.45 and 0.31, 
respectively. In each of the two studies, the proportion of subjects requiring supplemental SL BPN 
was significantly higher in the placebo group than in the Sixmo group (90.9% and 66.7% of subjects, 
with mean days of use per week of 2.17 and 1.27, in PRO-805 and PRO-806, respectively). 
Retention in treatment was high in the Sixmo groups, with 65.7% and 64.0% of patients completing 
studies PRO-805 and PRO-806, respectively. 
The majority of patients (around 80%) in both studies were adequately treated with 4 implants; around 
20% of patients required a dose increase with a fifth implant. 
In a subset of patients, Sixmo implants broke during implant removal. Breakage rates decreased in 
studies using the current technique and training. Generally, breakage was not perceived as a safety 
concern to the patient by the investigator. 
23 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: 
Implant breakage in Sixmo double-blind Phase 3 studies 
Current technique and training 
PRO-806 
PRO-811 
PRO-814 
Sixmo 
N= 99 
Sixmo 
N=78 
Sixmo 
N=82 
Number (%) of broken implants 
71 (17.0%) 
81 (25.0%) 
35 (10.7%) 
Number (%) of patients with 
broken implant(s) 
N=number of patients with data available. 
Non-Caucasian population 
42 (42.4%) 
38 (48.7%) 
22 (26.8%) 
The clinical experience with Sixmo in non-Caucasian patients is currently limited. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Sixmo in all subsets of the paediatric population for the maintenance treatment of opioid dependence 
(see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The Sixmo PK was assessed in opioid-dependent patients treated with Sixmo in studies TTP-400-02-
01, PRO-810, PRO-805, PRO-806, PRO-807 and PRO-811. Prior to entry into acute studies PRO-805, 
PRO-806, PRO-810 and TTP-400-02-01, patients were treatment naïve adults, with moderate to 
severe opioid dependency. In the majority of patients, heroin was the primary opioid of use. After 
Sixmo implant insertion, an initial buprenorphine peak was observed and the median Tmax occurred at 
12 hours after insertion. After the initial buprenorphine peak, the plasma buprenorphine concentrations 
decreased slowly and steady-state plasma buprenorphine concentrations were reached by 
approximately week 4. Mean steady-state plasma buprenorphine concentrations were consistent across 
all clinical studies, at approximately 0.5 to 1 ng/mL (with the 4-implant dose), and were maintained 
for approximately 20 weeks (week 4 through week 24) in a 24-week treatment period. At steady state, 
a small decrease in buprenorphine concentrations was also recorded between week 4 and week 24. 
Generally, concentrations were comparable to the trough buprenorphine concentration of 8 mg per day 
sublingual buprenorphine. 
Plasma buprenorphine concentrations after Sixmo are illustrated in figure 3. Mean plasma 
buprenorphine concentrations up to day 28 are based on data from the relative bioavailability study 
PRO-810 (which had intensive PK sampling), while concentrations after day 28 are based on pooled 
data from studies PRO-805, PRO-806, PRO-807 and PRO-811. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3:  Plasma buprenorphine concentrations after insertion of Sixmo (concentrations up to 
day 28 are based on study PRO-810, while concentrations after day 28 are based on 
studies PRO-805, PRO-806, PRO-807 and PRO-811) 
Distribution 
Buprenorphine is approximately 96% protein bound, primarily to alpha and beta globulin. 
Biotransformation 
Buprenorphine undergoes N-dealkylation to its major pharmacologically active metabolite 
norbuprenorphine and subsequent glucuronidation. The formation of norbuprenorphine was initially 
found to be performed by CYP3A4; subsequent studies also demonstrated the involvement of 
CYP2C8. Both buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine can further undergo glucuronidation by UDP-
glucuronosyltransferases. 
Elimination 
A mass balance study of buprenorphine showed complete recovery of radiolabel in urine (30%) and 
faeces (69%) collected up to 11 days after dosing. Almost all of the dose was accounted for in terms of 
buprenorphine, norbuprenorphine, and two unidentified buprenorphine metabolites. In urine, most of 
the buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine was conjugated (buprenorphine: 1% free and 9.4% 
conjugated; norbuprenorphine: 2.7% free and 11% conjugated). In faeces, almost all of the 
buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine were free (buprenorphine: 33% free and 5% conjugated; 
norbuprenorphine: 21% free and 2% conjugated). 
Buprenorphine has a mean elimination half-life from plasma ranging from 24 to 48 hours. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of Sixmo has not been studied. 
Buprenorphine is extensively metabolized in the liver and increased plasma levels were found to be 
increased in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment. 
Sixmo is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
Renal elimination plays a relatively small role (approximately 30%) in the overall clearance of 
buprenorphine and buprenorphine plasma concentrations were not increased in patients with renal 
impairment. No Sixmo dose adjustment is therefore considered necessary for patients with renal 
impairment. 
Elderly 
Clinical studies of Sixmo did not include patients over 65 years; therefore, the use of the product in 
this population is not recommended. The efficacy and safety of buprenorphine in elderly patients 
> 65 years has not been established.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
A standard battery of genotoxicity tests conducted on extracts of Sixmo and ethylene vinyl acetate 
(EVA) placebo implants was negative. Literature data indicated no genotoxic properties of 
buprenorphine.  
There is no suspicion of carcinogenicity based on the clinical use of buprenorphine.  
No published information is available regarding a potential effect of buprenorphine on male and 
female fertility. Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity.  
When pregnant rats were exposed to buprenorphine through osmotic minipumps from gestation day 7 
onwards, maternal food and water consumption was reduced on gestation days 7 to 20. The mortality 
index was significantly increased in the buprenorphine groups. There was a greater occurrence of 
resorptions and an increase in the number of stillbirths. Pups born tended to weigh less on postnatal 
day 1 compared with controls. Pups exposed to buprenorphine only during the prenatal period had a 
similar body weight compared with controls in the first 3 postnatal weeks. However, pups exposed to 
opioids postnatally exhibited significant body weights reductions. Maternal exposure to buprenorphine 
increased perinatal mortality and caused a delay in some development milestones in neonatal rats. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Each Sixmo implant is packaged individually into a PET/LDPE/Alu/LDPE-peelable foil laminate 
sachet. 
Implant kit: 4 Sixmo implants with 1 applicator 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
The removed implant contains a significant amount of residual buprenorphine. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
L. Molteni & C. dei F.lli Alitti Soc.Es.S.p.A, 
Strada Statale 67, 
50018 Scandicci (Firenze), 
Italy 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1369/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
20 June 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)   AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the active substance 
TEVA Czech Industries s.r.o. 
Ostravska 29/305 
747 70 Opava, Komarov 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
L. Molteni & C. dei Fratelli Alitti Societa di Esercizio S.p.A. 
Strada Statale 67 
Tosco Romagnola 
Firenze 
50018 
Scandicci 
ITALY 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to special and restricted medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product within 6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed  subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to the launch of SIXMO in each Member State (MS), the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
(MAH) must agree the content and format of the educational materials, including communication 
media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority (NCA).  
The MAH shall ensure that in each MS where SIXMO is marketed, all physicians expected to insert / 
remove SIXMO subcutaneous (SC) implant are provided with an educational programme, aiming at 
preventing / minimising the important identified risk of implant protrusion / (spontaneous) expulsion, 
the important potential risks of damage to nerves or blood vessels during insertion / removal 
procedure, (dislocation and) migration / missing (partial) implant. 
The physician educational programme, provided in conjunction with the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC), should include lecture slides and a detailed, face to face, step-by step 
description and live demonstration of the surgical procedure for SIXMO insertion and removal. 
Physicians should also be informed about risks and complications of this procedure (i.e. implant 
migration, protrusion, expulsion, and nerve damage).  
The MAH shall also ensure that in each MS where SIXMO is marketed, each patient being 
prescribed this SC implant receives from the treating physician the Patient Information Leaflet (PIL) 
and a (wallet-sized) patient alert card, to be carried out at all times while on SIXMO treatment, and 
presented to other health care professionals (HCP) before any medical treatment / intervention is 
carried out. The patient alert card should mention: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
That the card-holder is using SIXMO (buprenorphine only opioid-dependence treatment 
via SC implant located at the inner side of the upper arm) 
Implant insertion and six-month removal date(s)  
Name and contact details of the treating physician 
The safety concerns associated with SIXMO therapy (i.e. potential life-threatening 
interactions with other, concomitant therapies) 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
MOLTeNI-2019-01 - A retrospective and prospective, observational (non-
interventional), post-authorisation safety cohort study to evaluate the incidence of the 
breakages and insertion/removal complications of buprenorphine implants (Sixmo) in 
the routine clinical care  
Due date 
 Q4 2026  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer carton (kit) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sixmo 74.2 mg implant  
buprenorphine  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each implant contains buprenorphine hydrochloride equivalent to 74.2 mg of buprenorphine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipient: Ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
4 implants 
1 single use applicator 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Dispose of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
L. Molteni & C. dei F.lli Alitti Soc.Es.S.p.A, 
Strada Statale 67, 
50018 Scandicci (Firenze), 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1369/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
Sachet 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sixmo 74.2 mg implant  
buprenorphine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each implant contains buprenorphine hydrochloride equivalent to 74.2 mg of buprenorphine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipient: Ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 implant 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Dispose of in accordance with local requirements. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
L. Molteni & C. dei F.lli Alitti Soc.Es.S.p.A, 
Strada Statale 67, 
50018 Scandicci (Firenze), 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1369/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PATIENT ALERT CARD 
Patient Alert Card 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The holder of this card uses a buprenorphine only opioid dependence treatment called Sixmo. 
Implants are located under the skin, at the inner side of the upper arm. 
Always keep this card with you while on treatment. 
Present this card to your doctor, dentist or surgeon before any medical treatment or surgery.  
Contact your doctor if you experience any unusual symptoms, such as breathing problems, head 
injury, increased pressure in the head.  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sixmo 74.2 mg implant 
(buprenorphine) 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
L. Molteni & C. dei F.lli Alitti  
Local representative contact  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Treating doctor (name / contact information): 
Patient name: 
PROCEDURAL INFORMATION 
Insertion date: 
6-month removal date: 
Location of implant: (upper arm: left / right) 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION 
Each implant contains buprenorphine hydrochloride equivalent to 74.2 mg of buprenorphine. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Sixmo 74.2 mg implant 
buprenorphine  
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Sixmo is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Sixmo  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Sixmo  
Possible side effects  
How to store Sixmo  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Sixmo is and what it is used for 
Sixmo contains the active substance buprenorphine, which is a type of opioid medicine. It is used to 
treat opioid dependence in adults who are also receiving medical, social and psychological support. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Sixmo  
Do not use Sixmo if you:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
are allergic to buprenorphine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
have severe breathing problems 
have severly reduced liver function 
have acute alcoholism or alcohol delirium caused by withdrawal from alcohol 
are using naltrexone or nalmefene to treat alcohol or opioid dependence 
have had an increased formation of scare tissue 
Patients who may not be investigated using a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan must not be 
allowed to receive Sixmo. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before using Sixmo if you have: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
asthma or other breathing problems 
mild or moderate liver problems 
reduced kidney function 
head injury or other circumstances where the pressure in the head may be increased 
a history of fits 
low blood pressure 
enlarged prostate or narrowed urethra 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
underactive thyroid 
reduced adrenal gland function, such as Addison's disease 
abnormal function of the bile duct 
general weakness and poor health, or you are elderly 
a history of connective tissue disease such as scleroderma 
a history of recurrent methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infections (MRSA) 
depression or other conditions that are treated with antidepressants.  
The use of these medicines together with Sixmo can lead to serotonin syndrome, a potentially 
life-threatening condition (see “Other medicines and Sixmo”). 
Important aspects to consider during treatment: 
• 
one week after implant insertion and 
at least once a month thereafter 
Drowsiness may occur especially in the first week after insertion. See “Driving and using 
machines”. 
Your doctor should examine the insertion site for infections and wound problems: 
- 
- 
Infection may occur at the site of the insertion or removal of the implant. Excessive touching 
of the implants or insertion site shortly after insertion may increase the chance of infection. Tell 
your doctor immediately if you have any signs of infection (such as redness or inflammation) at 
the site of insertion or removal. 
If an implant comes out after insertion, take the following steps: 
- 
- 
Schedule an appointment with the inserting doctor as soon as possible. 
Place the implant in a glass jar with a lid. Store it safely away from others, especially 
children. Bring it to the inserting doctor to determine whether the full implant has been 
expelled. 
Please note: Buprenorphine can cause severe, possibly fatal, breathing depression 
(shortness of breath or stops breathing) in children who are accidentally exposed to it. 
The doctor will monitor you until the implant is replaced to evaluate for withdrawal 
symptoms. 
- 
Avoid moving implants around under the skin or gain a lot of weight after insertion of Sixmo as 
this may make it difficult to locate implants. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Misuse and abuse: If buprenorphine is abused it can lead to overdose and death. This risk 
• 
• 
increases when additionally using alcohol or other substances. 
This medicine can cause dependence, but at a lower level than other substances such as 
morphine. If you stop Sixmo treatment your doctor will monitor you for withdrawal 
symptoms. 
A number of cases of death due to breathing depression have been reported while on 
buprenorphine. Particularly, this occurs when additionally using alcohol, other opioids or certain 
medicines which calm, induce sleep or relax muscles. Buprenorphine can cause fatal breathing 
problems in non-dependent people or children. 
Sixmo should be used with caution in patients with asthma or other breathing problems. 
Liver damage, including liver failure, has been reported when using buprenorphine. This may 
be related to existing reduced liver function and ongoing injecting drug use. If liver problems 
are suspected your doctor will carry out tests to decide if treatment should be stopped.  
•  While using Sixmo, situations may arise where you need acute pain treatment or anaesthesia. 
• 
• 
• 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice in these cases. 
Substances like buprenorphine may cause pinpoint pupils, change consciousness or the way 
you feel pain. 
Substances like buprenorphine may cause a sudden drop in blood pressure, causing dizziness 
when getting up quickly. 
Children and adolescents 
Sixmo is not recommended for children under 18 years.  
Patients over 65 years 
40 
 
 
 
 
Sixmo is not recommended for patients over 65 years. 
Other medicines and Sixmo 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
Especially, inform your doctor during Sixmo treatment before using:  
• 
- 
medicines which calm, induce sleep or relax muscles, with active substance names ending with 
“azepam” 
This combination may result in death due to breathing depression. Therefore, use these 
medicines during Sixmo treatment only on doctor’s advice and at the prescribed dosage.  
other medicines that depress the brain or spinal cord, as these reduce alertness, making driving 
and using machines hazardous 
- 
- 
- 
other opioid derivatives such as methadone, strong painkillers and cough suppressants 
certain medicines to treat depressions 
medicines called antihistamines used to treat allergic reactions, sleep disturbances, cold; 
or prevent and treat nausea and vomiting 
medicines to treat epilepsy or to sedate, with active substance names mostly ending with 
“tal” 
medicines to treat anxiety, other than those described in the first bullet point 
medicines to treat mental or anxiety disorders, with sedative effects, called neuroleptics 
clonidine: a medicine to treat high blood pressure and high eye pressure 
- 
- 
- 
naltrexone, nalmefene, used to treat addiction 
They can block the effects of buprenorphine. Do not use these medicines during Sixmo 
treatment as they can cause a sudden onset of prolonged, intense withdrawal symptoms.  
medicines to treat HIV infections with active substance names ending in “navir”, such as 
ritonavir, nelfinavir, amprenavir, fosamprenavir 
medicines to treat fungal infections, like thrush, with active substance names ending in “azole”, 
such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, fluconazole 
clarithromycin, erythromycin, troleandomycin: medicines to treat bacterial infections 
nefazodone: a medicine to treat depression 
verapamil, diltiazem, amiodarone: medicines to treat high blood pressure and heart disorders 
aprepitant: a medicine to prevent nausea and vomiting 
phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin: medicines to treat epilepsy and other illnesses 
rifampicin: a medicine to treat tuberculosis or certain other infections 
certain medicines to treat depression or Parkinson’s disease, called monoamine oxidase 
inhibitors, such as phenelzine, isocarboxazid, iproniazid and tranylcypromine 
anti-depressants such as moclobemide, tranylcypromine, citalopram, escitalopram, fluoxetine, 
fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, duloxetine, venlafaxine, amitriptyline, doxepine, or 
trimipramine. These medicines may interact with Sixmo and you may experience symptoms 
such as involuntary, rhythmic contractions of muscles, including the muscles that control 
movement of the eye, agitation, hallucinations, coma, excessive sweating, tremor, exaggeration 
of reflexes, increased muscle tension, body temperature above 38°C. Contact your doctor when 
experiencing such symptoms. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Sixmo with food, drink and alcohol 
Do not drink alcohol during Sixmo treatment, as it increases the sedative effect. 
Avoid grapefruit juice to prevent possible side effects. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before using this medicine. 
• 
pregnancy 
Sixmo is not recommended during pregnancy, nor in women of childbearing age not using 
contraception. 
When used during pregnancy, particularly late pregnancy, buprenorphine may cause withdrawal 
symptoms, including breathing problems, in the newborn baby. This may appear several days 
after birth. 
breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during Sixmo treatment, as buprenorphine passes into breast milk. 
• 
Driving and using machines 
Buprenorphine may reduce the ability to drive and use machines; especially during the first 24 to 
48 hours up to one week following implant insertion. You may fell dizzy, drowsy and less alert. 
Do not drive or perform dangerous activities until you are certain Sixmo does not reduce your ability 
in such activities. 
3. 
How to use Sixmo 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
Sixmo implants must be inserted, removed, and patients monitored by a healthcare professional 
familiar with the procedure, with experience in the management of opioid addiction. 
Before administering Sixmo implants 
You must be on a stable buprenorphine dose of between 2 to 8 mg per day, given under the tongue. 
This must be for at least 30 days and to be decided by your doctor. 
Buprenorphine given under the tongue will be stopped 12 to 24 hours before insertion of Sixmo 
implants. 
Treatment with Sixmo implants 
Each dose consists of 4 implants. 
Before inserting Sixmo, your doctor will give you a local anaesthetic to numb the area. The implants 
will then be inserted under the skin in the inner side of the upper arm. 
After insertion of the implants, the doctor will apply a sterile gauze with a pressure bandage to 
minimize bruising. You may remove the pressure bandage after 24 hours and the adhesive bandage 
after five days. Apply an ice pack on the arm for 40 minutes every two hours for the first 24 hours, 
then as needed. 
insertion site and date 
latest date on which the implant must be removed 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Alert Card that provides the 
• 
• 
Keep this card in a safe place, since the information on the card may make it easier to carry out 
removal.  
Your doctor will examine the insertion site one week following implant insertion and at a minimum 
once-monthly thereafter for signs of: 
• 
infection or any problems with wound healing 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evidence of implant coming out of the skin 
• 
Please attend all of these necessary appointments. Inform your doctor immediately if you think you have 
an infection at the implant site or if the implant starts to come out. 
If you feel the need for additional buprenorphine doses, contact your doctor straight away.  
Removal of Sixmo implants 
Sixmo implants are intended to be in place for 6 months and provide a continuous delivery of 
buprenorphine. They are removed by the doctor at the end of the sixth month. 
The implants should only be removed by a doctor who is familiar with the procedure. If the implants 
cannot be located, the doctor may use ultrasound or a type of scan called magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI).  
After removal of the implant, the doctor will apply a sterile gauze with a pressure bandage to minimize 
bruising. You may remove the pressure bandage after 24 hours and the adhesive bandage after five 
days. Apply an ice pack on the arm for 40 minutes every two hours for the first 24 hours, then as 
needed. 
Retreatment with Sixmo implants 
When the first 6-month treatment period is up, a new set of Sixmo implants may be given after 
removal of the old implants, preferably on the same day. New implants will be inserted in the other 
arm. 
If another set of implants is not inserted on the same day as the previous set is removed: 
A dose of between 2 and 8 mg buprenorphine daily, given under the tongue, is recommended until 
repeat treatment occurs. This should be stopped 12 to 24 hours before insertion of the next set of 
Sixmo implants. 
If you have more Sixmo than you need 
In some cases, the dose delivered by the implants might be more than the one you need. Overdose 
symptoms include:  
•  pinpoint pupils 
• 
sedation 
• 
low blood pressure 
• 
breathing difficulties, breathing slowly 
In the worst case, it can result in breathing stopping, heart failure and death. 
Inform your doctor immediately if the above symptoms occur, or go to the nearest hospital and bring 
this leaflet and your Patient Alert Card with you. Do not attempt to remove the implants by yourself as 
this could be very dangerous. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Side effects can occur with the following frequencies: 
Common, may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
constipation, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea 
other stomach and bowel disorders, tooth disorder 
pain, such as abdominal pain, bone pain, muscle pain, chest pain, headache 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
dizziness, drowsiness 
sleeplessness, anxiety, hostility, nervousness 
mental condition, chracterised by delusions and irrationality 
high blood pressure, feeling heartbeat 
fainting 
dilated pupils 
hot flush, bruising, dilation of blood vessels 
drug withdrawal syndrome, such as sweating, feeling hot and cold 
fatigue, chills, weakness, increased muscle tone 
infection, such as viral infection (e.g. flu) 
cough, breathlessness 
inflammation of the airways in the lungs, throat or inner lining of the nose 
increased sweating, feeling unwell 
decreased appetite 
increased level of a liver enzyme, alanine aminotransferase, in blood tests 
reactions at the implant site 
pain, itching 
- 
procedural site reaction, such as pain during the insertion procedure  
- 
bruising, skin reddening, scar 
- 
bleeding 
- 
Uncommon, may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
dry mouth, wind, indigestion, bloody stool 
migraine, tremor 
excessive sleepiness 
abnormal sensation such as prickling, “pins and needles”, tingling and itchiness 
reduced consciousness 
sleep disorder, disinterest 
depression, euphoria 
decreased sexual desire, decreased orgasmic sensation 
restlessness, excitement, excitability, abnormal thoughts 
drug dependence 
reduced sense of touch or sensation 
fever, feeling cold, discomfort 
swelling, including tissue swelling in arms, legs or face caused by excess fluid 
muscle spasms, limb discomfort 
pain affecting muscles and skeleton, neck, limbs, joints 
pain and dysfunction of chewing muscles and joints called temporomandibular joint syndrome 
breathing depression, yawning 
cellulitis, skin infection, boil 
tonsil complications 
rash, rash pustular, skin lesion 
cold sweat, dry skin 
small bleeds beneath the skin 
changes in blood levels 
- 
increased enzyme levels: aspartate aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, blood 
lactate dehydrogenase, lipase, amylase 
decreased enzyme levels: alkaline phosphatase 
increased bicarbonate level 
increased bilirubin level - a yellow breakdown substance of the blood pigment 
increased glucose level 
decreased cholesterol level 
decreased haematocrit - the percentage of blood cells on the blood volume 
decreased haemoglobin - the red blood cell pigment, increased mean cell haemoglobin 
increase in certain white blood cell count: monocyte, neutrophils 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
44 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
decreased cell count: platelets, red blood cells, lymphocytes 
- 
abnormal mean cell volume 
increased or decreased weight, including abnormal weight gain 
dehydration, increased appetite 
painful period, erectile dysfunction 
eye discharge, blurred vision, lacrimal disorder 
slow heartbeat, abnormal heart rhythm that starts in the atrial chambers of the heart 
urinary hesitation, urge to urinate, urinating more frequently with little urinary output 
urinary tract infection 
vulvovaginal fungal infection  
lymph node disease 
lack of a white blood cell type called neutrophils 
complication after the procedure 
migration of implant(s), device breakage or expulsion 
reopening of a closed wound  
reactions at the implant site 
- 
- 
- 
- 
infection, including wound infection 
rash, scaring 
reduced healing 
swollen area containing pus  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Sixmo 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Sixmo contains  
• 
• 
The active substance is buprenorphine. 
Each implant contains buprenorphine hydrochloride equivalent to 74.2 mg of buprenorphine. 
The other ingredient is ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer. 
What Sixmo looks like and contents of the pack 
Sixmo is a white/off-white to pale yellow rod-shaped implant, 26.5 mm long and 2.4 mm in diameter. 
Sixmo is provided in a carton. It consists of four implants individually packaged into laminated foil 
sachets and one individually packaged sterile disposable applicator.  
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
L. Molteni & C. dei F.lli Alitti Soc.Es.S.p.A, 
Strada Statale 67, 
50018 Scandicci (Firenze), 
Italy 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Accord Healthcare bv 
Tél/Tel: +32 51 79 40 12 
България 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Teл.: +48 22 577 28 00 
Česká republika 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 577 28 00 
Danmark 
Accord Healthcare AB 
Tlf: + 46 8 624 00 25 
Deutschland 
Accord Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: +49 89 700 9951 0 
Eesti 
Accord Healthcare AB 
Tel: +46 8 624 00 25 
Ελλάδα 
Accord Healthcare Italia Srl 
Τηλ: +39 02 943 23 700   
España 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 93 301 00 64 
France 
Accord Healthcare France SAS 
Tél: +33 (0)320 401 770 
Hrvatska  
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 577 28 00 
Ireland 
Accord Healthcare Ireland Ltd 
Tel: +353 (0) 21 461 9040 
Lietuva 
Accord Healthcare AB 
Tel: +46 8 624 00 25 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Accord Healthcare bv 
Tèl/Tel: +32 51 79 40 12 
Magyarország 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 577 28 00 
Malta 
Accord Healthcare Ireland Ltd 
Tel: +44 (0) 208 901 3370 
Nederland 
Accord Healthcare B.V. 
Tel: +31 30 850 6014 
Norge 
Accord Healthcare AB 
Tlf: + 46 8 624 00 25 
Österreich 
Accord Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: +43 (0)662 424899-0 
Polska 
Molteni Farmaceutici Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 (12) 653 15 71 
Portugal 
Accord Healthcare, Unipessoal Lda 
Tel: +351 214 697 835 
România 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 577 28 00 
Slovenija 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 577 28 00 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Accord Healthcare AB 
Sími: + 46 8 624 00 25 
Slovenská republika 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 577 28 00 
Italia 
L.Molteni & C. dei F.lli Alitti Soc.Es.S.p.A 
Tel: +39 055 73611 
Suomi/Finland 
Accord Healthcare Oy 
Puh/Tel. +358 10 231 4180 
Κύπρος 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 93 301 00 64 
Latvija 
Accord Healthcare AB 
Tel: +46 8 624 00 25  
This leaflet was last revised in  
Sverige 
Accord Healthcare AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 624 00 25 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Accord-UK Ltd 
Tel: +44 (0)1271 385257 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
The insertion and removal of Sixmo should take place in a setting that allows for insertion under 
aseptic conditions, where the patient is able to lie on their back. It is recommended that the healthcare 
professional is in a seated position during the entire insertion procedure so that the insertion site and 
the movement of the needle just under the skin can be clearly seen from the side. 
Only a healthcare professional who is trained in the insertion of Sixmo should perform the procedure, 
using only the implant applicator, with the recommended local anaesthetic available. One applicator is 
used to insert all four implants. Implants inserted more deeply than subcutaneous (deep insertion) may 
not be palpable and the localisation and/or removal may be difficult. If the implants are inserted 
deeply, it is possible that neurovascular injury may occur. For patients returning for subsequent 
treatment with Sixmo, preparations should be made to perform both the removal and insertion of 
Sixmo at the same visit. The removed implant contains a significant amount of residual 
buprenorphine. It must be handled with adequate security and accountability for proper disposal in 
accordance with local requirements. 
Key instruction for proper insertion 
The basis for successful use and subsequent removal of Sixmo is a correct and carefully performed 
subcutaneous insertion of the implants in accordance with the instructions. Properly placed implants 
are those placed just under the skin, using the implant applicator, about 80 to 100 mm (8 to 10 cm) 
above the medial epicondyle, in the sulcus between the biceps and triceps muscle of the inner side of 
the upper arm. The implants should be positioned in a fan-shaped distribution at least 5 mm from the 
incision, and palpable after placement. The closer the implants lie to each other at the time of 
insertion, the more easily they can be removed.  
Equipment for subcutaneous insertion of Sixmo 
The following equipment is needed for implant insertion under aseptic conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
an examination table for the patient to lie on 
instrument stand covered with sterile drape 
adequate lighting, such as headlamp 
sterile fenestrated drape 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
latex, talc-free sterile gloves 
alcohol pad  
surgical marker 
antiseptic solution, such as chlorhexidine 
local anaesthetic, such as 1% lidocaine with adrenaline 1:100,000 
5 mL syringe with 25G×1.5" needle (0.5×38 mm)  
Adson single tooth tissue forceps 
#15 blade scalpel 
thin adhesive strip around 6 mm wide (butterfly strip) 
100×100 mm sterile gauze  
adhesive bandages 
pressure bandage around 8 cm wide 
liquid adhesive 
4 Sixmo implants 
1 implant applicator 
The implant applicator (disposable) and its parts are shown in Figure 1. 
Figure 1 
Instructions for subcutaneous insertion of Sixmo 
Step 1: The patient should lie on their back, with the intended arm flexed at the elbow and externally 
rotated, so that the hand is positioned next to the head. Identify the insertion site, which is at the inner 
side of the upper arm, about 80 to 100 mm (8 to 10 cm) above the medial epicondyle, in the sulcus 
between the biceps and triceps muscle. Having the patient flex the biceps muscle may facilitate 
identification of the site (Figure 2). 
Figure 2 
Step 2: Clean the insertion site with an alcohol pad. Mark the insertion site with the surgical marker. 
The implants will be inserted through a small 2.5 to 3 mm subcutaneous incision. Mark the channel 
tracks where each implant will be inserted by drawing 4 lines - with each line 40 mm long. The 
implants will be positioned in a close fan-shaped distribution 4 to 6 mm apart, with the fan opening 
towards the shoulder (Figure 3). 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 
Step 3: Put on sterile gloves and check the function of the implant applicator by removing the 
obturator from the cannula and relocking it. Clean the insertion site with an antiseptic solution, such as 
chlorhexidine. Do not blot or wipe away.  
Apply the sterile fenestrated drape to the patient’s arm (Figure 4). Anaesthetise the insertion area at 
the incision site and just under the skin, along the planned insertion channels, by injecting 5 mL 
lidocaine 1% with adrenaline 1:100,000. After determining that anaesthesia is adequate and effective, 
make a shallow incision 2.5 to 3 mm in length at incision site marking.  
Figure 4 
Step 4: Lift the edge of the incision opening with the toothed forceps. While applying counter-traction 
to the skin, at a slight angle (no greater than 20 degrees), insert only the tip of the applicator into the 
subcutaneous space (depth of 3 to 4 mm below the skin), with the bevel-up stop marking on the 
cannula facing upwards and visible with the obturator locked fully into the cannula (Figure 5).  
Figure 5 
Step 5: Lower the applicator to a horizontal position; lift the skin up with the tip of the applicator, but 
keep the cannula in the subcutaneous connective tissue (Figure 6).  
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 
Step 6: While lifting, gently advance the applicator subcutaneously along the channel marking on the 
skin. Stop immediately once the proximal marking on the cannula has disappeared into the incision 
(Figures 7 and 8). 
Figure 7 
Figure 8 
Step 7: While holding the cannula in place, unlock the obturator and remove the obturator. Insert one 
implant into the cannula (Figure 9), re-insert the obturator, and gently push the obturator forward 
(mild resistance should be felt) until the obturator stop line is level with the bevel-up stop marking, 
which indicates the implant is positioned at the tip of the cannula (Figure 10). Do not force the 
implant beyond the end of the cannula with the obturator. There should be at least 5 mm between 
the incision and the implant when the implant is properly positioned. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 
Figure 10 
Step 8: While holding the obturator in place on the arm, retract the cannula along the obturator, 
leaving the implant in place (Figure 11). Note: Do not push the obturator. Withdraw the cannula 
until the hub is flush with the obturator, then twist the obturator clockwise to lock onto the cannula 
(Figure 12). Retract the applicator, bevel-up, until the distal marking of the cannula is visible at the 
incision opening (the sharp tip remaining in the subcutaneous space). 
Figure 11 
Figure 12 
51 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 9: Redirect the applicator to the next channel marking, while stabilizing the previously inserted 
implant with your index finger, away from the sharp tip (Figure 13). Follow steps 6 through 9 for the 
insertion of the three remaining implants through the same incision. 
Figure 13 
Step 10: Verify the presence of each implant (26.5 mm in length) by palpation of the patient’s arm 
immediately after the insertion, as shown in Figure 14. If you cannot feel each of the four implants, or 
doubt their presence, use other methods to confirm the presence of the implant. 
Figure 14 
Step 11: Apply pressure to the incision site for approximately five minutes if necessary. Clean the 
incision site. Apply liquid adhesive to the skin margins and allow to dry before closing the incision 
with the thin adhesive strip around 6 mm wide (butterfly strip).  
Place a small adhesive bandage over the insertion site. Apply a pressure bandage with sterile gauze to 
minimize bruising. Instruct the patient that the pressure bandage can be removed after 24 hours and 
the adhesive bandage removed in three to five days, and to apply an ice pack on the arm for 
40 minutes every two hours for the first 24 hours, then as needed. 
Step 12: Complete the Patient Alert Card and give it to the patient to keep. Also, scan or input the 
details of the implant procedure into the patient’s medical records. Advise the patient on proper care of 
the insertion site. 
Instruction for location of implants prior to removal 
Verify the location of the implants by palpation. Non-palpable implants must be located prior to 
attempted removal. In the case of non-palpable implants, removal should be performed under 
ultrasound guidance (following their localisation). Suitable methods for location include ultrasound 
with a high frequency linear array transducer (10 MHz or greater) or, in case ultrasound is not 
successful, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Sixmo implants are not radiopaque and cannot be seen 
by X-ray or CT scan. Exploratory surgery without knowledge of the exact location of all implants is 
strongly discouraged. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equipment for removal of Sixmo  
Implants should be removed under aseptic conditions, whereby the following equipment is needed: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
an examination table for the patient to lie on 
instrument stand covered with sterile drape 
adequate lighting, such as headlamp 
sterile fenestrated drapes 
latex, talc-free, sterile gloves 
alcohol pad 
surgical marker 
antiseptic solution, such as chlorhexidine 
local anaesthetic, such as 1% lidocaine with adrenaline 1:100,000 
5 mL syringe with 25G×1.5" needle (0.5×38 mm)  
Adson single tooth tissue forceps 
mosquito forceps 
two X-plant clamps (vasectomy fixation clamps with 2.5 mm ring diameter) 
iris scissors  
needle driver 
#15 blade scalpel 
sterile ruler 
100×100 mm sterile gauze 
adhesive bandage 
pressure bandage around 8 cm wide 
sutures, such as 4-0 Prolene™ with an FS-2 cutting needle (may be absorbable) 
Instructions for removal of Sixmo 
Step 13: The patient should lie on their back, with the implant arm flexed at the elbow and externally 
rotated, so that the hand is positioned next to the head. Reconfirm the location of the implants by 
palpation. Clean removal site with alcohol pad prior to marking the skin. Using the surgical marker, 
mark the location of the implants and the location of the incision. The incision should be made parallel 
to the axis of the arm, between the second and third implants, to access the subcutaneous space (Figure 
15). 
Figure 15 
Step 14: Put on sterile gloves. Using aseptic technique, place the sterile equipment on the sterile field 
of the instrument stand. Clean the removal site with an antiseptic solution, such as chlorhexidine. Do 
not blot or wipe away. Apply the sterile drape to the patient’s arm. Anaesthetise the incision site and 
the subcutaneous space containing the implants (for example, by injecting 5 to 7 mL lidocaine 1% 
with adrenaline 1:100,000). 
NOTE: Be sure to inject the local anaesthetic deep to the centre of the implants; this will effectively 
lift the implants toward the skin, facilitating removal of the implants. After determining the 
anaesthesia is adequate and effective, make a 7 to 10 mm incision with a scalpel, parallel to the axis of 
the arm, between the second and third implants. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 15: Pick up the skin edge with Adson single toothed tissue forceps and separate the tissues above 
and below the visible implant, using an iris scissors or a curved mosquito forceps (Figure 16). 
Grasp the centre of the implant with the X-plant clamp(s) (Figure 17) and apply gentle traction. If the 
implant is encapsulated, or you see dimpling, use the scalpel to shave the adhering tissue to release the 
implant. 
Figure 16 
Figure 17 
Step 16: After removal of each implant, confirm that the entire 26.5 mm long implant has been 
removed by measuring its length. Follow steps 15 and 16 for the removal of the remaining implants 
through the same incision. The same technique is employed for the removal of protruding or partially 
expelled implants. Exploratory surgery without knowledge of the exact location of all implants is 
strongly discouraged. 
Step 17: After removal of all implants, clean the incision site. Close the incision with sutures. Place an 
adhesive bandage over the incision. Use the sterile gauze and apply gentle pressure to the incision site, 
for five minutes, to ensure haemostasis. Apply a pressure bandage with sterile gauze to minimize 
bruising. Instruct the patient that the pressure bandage can be removed after 24 hours and the adhesive 
bandage in three to five days. Counsel the patient on proper aseptic wound care. Instruct the patient to 
apply an ice pack to the arm for 40 minutes every two hours for first 24 hours, then as needed. 
Schedule an appointment for the sutures to be removed. 
Step 18: Disposal of Sixmo implants should be in accordance with local requirements as it contains 
buprenorphine. 
If implant(s) or implant fragment(s) are not removed during a removal attempt, the patient should 
undergo imaging for localisation as soon as is feasible with the subsequent removal attempt performed 
on the same day as localisation. If localisation and a second removal attempt are not performed on the 
same day as the initial removal attempt, the wound should be closed with sutures in the interim. 
54 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
