EMA/804315/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004759 
Skyrizi (risankizumab) 
An overview of Skyrizi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Skyrizi and what is it used for? 
Skyrizi is a medicine used to treat adults with:  
•  moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin) who require 
systemic treatment (treatment with medicines given by mouth or by injection); 
• 
active psoriatic arthritis (a disease that causes psoriasis and inflammation of the joints) when 
treatment with one or more medicines known as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs) has not worked well enough or causes unacceptable side effects; 
•  moderate-to-severe Crohn’s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the digestive tract) when 
conventional or biological treatments do not work well enough or cause unacceptable side effects. 
When used for psoriatic arthritis, Skyrizi can be given alone or with another medicine, methotrexate. 
Skyrizi contains the active substance risankizumab. 
How is Skyrizi used? 
Skyrizi can only be obtained with a prescription and should be used under the supervision of a doctor 
experienced in diagnosing and treating plaque psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis or Crohn’s disease. 
For plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, Skyrizi is available in pre-filled syringes and pre-filled pens. 
It is injected under the skin in an area that is clear of psoriasis, usually on the thigh or belly. The first 
two doses are given 4 weeks apart, while subsequent doses are given every 12 weeks. The doctor may 
decide to stop treatment if the condition does not improve after 16 weeks.  
Two formulations are used for Crohn’s disease. The first, a concentrate, is used to make a solution 
which is given at the start of treatment as an infusion (drip into a vein) three times over eight weeks. 
The second formulation, a solution for injection in a cartridge, is for long-term maintenance treatment 
and is given as an injection under the skin 4 weeks after the last infusion and then every 8 weeks 
thereafter. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
After being trained, patients may inject Skyrizi themselves if the doctor considers it appropriate. For 
more information about using Skyrizi, including the recommended doses, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Skyrizi work? 
The active substance in Skyrizi, risankizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that is 
designed to attach to interleukin-23 (IL-23) and block its activity. IL-23 is involved in causing 
inflammation that is linked to arthritis, plaque psoriasis and Crohn’s disease. By blocking the action of 
IL-23, risankizumab reduces inflammation and other symptoms associated with these conditions. 
What benefits of Skyrizi have been shown in studies? 
Plaque psoriasis 
In four main studies involving over 2,100 patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who 
required systemic treatment, Skyrizi was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) and 
comparator medicines at improving symptoms.  
In the first two studies in a total of 997 patients, after 16 weeks of treatment around 75% of patients 
receiving Skyrizi had a reduction of at least 90% in PASI scores (a measure of how severe and 
widespread the skin lesions are), compared with around 45% of those receiving ustekinumab and 
around 4% of those receiving placebo. In addition, around 86% of patients receiving Skyrizi had clear 
or almost clear skin, compared with around 62% of those receiving ustekinumab and around 6% of 
those receiving placebo. Improvements in symptoms were maintained after 52 weeks of treatment 
with Skyrizi. 
In the third study involving 605 patients, after 16 weeks of treatment 72% of patients receiving Skyrizi 
had a reduction of at least 90% in PASI scores, compared with 47% of those receiving adalimumab. In 
addition, 84% of patients receiving Skyrizi had clear or almost clear skin, compared with 60% of those 
receiving adalimumab. 
Finally, in the fourth study involving 507 patients, after 16 weeks of treatment 73% of patients 
receiving Skyrizi had a reduction of at least 90% in PASI scores, compared with 2% of those receiving 
placebo. Around 84% of patients receiving Skyrizi had clear or almost clear skin, compared with 
around 7% of those receiving placebo. In a second part of this study, some patients who first received 
Skyrizi were then switched to placebo after 28 weeks while others remained on Skyrizi. At week 52, 
more patients who remained on Skyrizi had clear or almost clear skin than those who were switched to 
placebo. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Two main studies involving over 1,400 patients with psoriatic arthritis showed that Skyrizi is more 
effective than placebo at improving symptoms.  
In both studies, patients received either Skyrizi or placebo and more than half of the patients were also 
taking methotrexate. The main measure of effectiveness was a reduction in symptoms of 20% or more 
based on a standard rating score (ACR20) after 24 weeks of treatment.   
The first study involved 443 patients whose condition had not responded adequately to previous 
treatment with at least one DMARD or another type of medicine known as a biological medicine. After 
24 weeks, symptoms had decreased by at least 20% in 51% of patients taking Skyrizi compared with 
27% of those taking placebo.   
Skyrizi (risankizumab)  
EMA/804315/2022  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
The second study involved 964 patients whose psoriatic arthritis had not responded adequately to 
previous treatment with at least one DMARD. After 24 weeks, symptoms had decreased by at least 
20% in 57% of patients taking Skyrizi compared with 34% of those taking placebo.   
Crohn’s disease 
Two main studies involving 1,549 patients looked at how effective Skyrizi was at treating moderate-to 
-severe Crohn’s disease when other treatments did not work well enough or caused unacceptable side 
effects.  
In the first study, 35% of those who received the recommended dose of Skyrizi infusions over 8 weeks 
had a clinical remission (little or no symptoms of high stool frequency and abdominal pain) after 12 
weeks while 29% of them had an endoscopic response (based on a reduction in inflammation in the 
intestines). The results for patients who received placebo were 19% and 11% respectively. 
In the second study, 44% of those who received the recommended dose of Skyrizi infusions had a 
clinical remission after 12 weeks while 40% of them had an endoscopic response. The results for 
patients who received placebo in this study were 22% and 12% respectively. 
A third study of 542 patients from the two main studies who responded to treatment looked at the 
effectiveness of maintenance treatment given under the skin every 8 weeks. After a year, around 52% 
of those receiving Skyrizi were in remission and 47%  had an endoscopic response compared with 40% 
and 22% respectively of those receiving placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Skyrizi? 
The most common side effect with Skyrizi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is upper 
respiratory infection (nose and throat infection). 
Skyrizi must not be used in patients who have an ongoing infection that the doctor considers 
important.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Skyrizi authorised in the EU? 
Studies have shown that Skyrizi is highly effective at clearing the skin in patients with plaque psoriasis 
and reduces symptoms of psoriatic arthritis; the positive effects are maintained with continued use. 
Skyrizi is also effective at treating symptoms of moderate to severe Crohn’s disease and reducing signs 
of inflammation in the intestines. There are few side effects, the most important one being infection. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Skyrizi’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Skyrizi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Skyrizi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Skyrizi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Skyrizi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Skyrizi (risankizumab)  
EMA/804315/2022  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Other information about Skyrizi 
Skyrizi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 April 2019. 
Further information on Skyrizi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Skyrizi  
This overview was last updated in 11-2022. 
Skyrizi (risankizumab)  
EMA/804315/2022  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
