EMA/570422/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004425 
Slenyto (melatonin) 
An overview of Slenyto and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Slenyto and what is it used for? 
Slenyto is a medicine for treating insomnia (difficulty sleeping) in children and adolescents (2 to 18 
years old) who have: 
• 
autism spectrum disorder (ASD), a range of conditions that affects the patient’s social interactions; 
•  Smith-Magenis syndrome, a condition that can lead to learning difficulties. 
Slenyto is used after other measures such as keeping to a regular sleeping routine have not worked. 
The medicine contains the active substance melatonin. 
How is Slenyto used? 
Slenyto is available as tablets (1 and 5 mg). The normal dose is 2 mg taken 30 minutes to one hour 
before bedtime. The dose can be increased up to a maximum of 10 mg if the medicine is not working 
well enough. The doctor should review treatment regularly, at least every 6 months, and only continue 
treatment if the patient is benefits from it. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Slenyto, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
How does Slenyto work? 
The active substance in Slenyto, melatonin, is a naturally occurring hormone, which is normally 
produced by a gland in the brain called the pineal gland. Melatonin is involved in coordinating the 
body’s sleep cycle by acting on cells in specific areas of the brain and helping to bring about sleep. Its 
levels in the blood normally increase after the onset of darkness and peak in the middle of the night. 
Patients with developmental conditions may produce less melatonin, leading to the development of 
insomnia. Slenyto increases levels of melatonin in the blood, helping them to sleep. Because Slenyto 
releases melatonin slowly over a few hours, it mimics the natural production of melatonin in the body. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Slenyto have been shown in studies? 
Slenyto has been shown to be effective at improving sleeping time in children and adolescents with 
neurological conditions, including autism spectrum disorder and Smith-Magenis syndrome. In a main 
study of 125 patients, those given Slenyto over 13 weeks slept on average for 51 extra minutes of 
sleep a night compared with and 19 extra minutes for those given placebo (a dummy treatment). In 
addition, children who took Slenyto fell asleep around 38 minutes earlier than normal while those 
taking placebo fell asleep 13 minutes earlier. 
All patients had previously tried other measures, such as keeping to a regular sleeping routine, which 
did not work. 
What are the risks associated with Slenyto? 
The most common side effects with Slenyto (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are sleepiness, 
tiredness, mood swings, headache, irritability, aggression and feeling hungover. For the full list of side 
effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Slenyto authorised in the EU? 
The proportion of children with neurological conditions, such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and 
Smith-Magenis syndrome, who also have insomnia is high and not many treatments are available. 
Slenyto has been shown to improve sleeping times in these patients, with patients taking Slenyto 
sleeping for an extra 51 minutes a night compared with an extra 19 minutes with placebo. The side 
effects seen with the medicine over 2 years appear mild or moderate but more data are needed on 
longer term safety. 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Slenyto’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Slenyto? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Slenyto have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Slenyto are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Slenyto are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Slenyto 
Slenyto received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 September 2018. 
Further information on Slenyto can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2018. 
Slenyto (melatonin)  
EMA/570422/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
