Summary  of  Risk  Management  Plan  for  Slenyto  1 mg  and  5 mg  prolonged-release 
tablets (melatonin) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Slenyto  1  mg  and  5  mg  prolonged  release  tablets.    The 
RMP  details  important  risks  of  Slenyto,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more 
information will be obtained about Slenyto's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Slenyto's summary of product characteristics (SPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Slenyto should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Slenyto should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Slenyto's RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Slenyto  is  authorized  for  insomnia  in  children  and  adolescents  aged  2  to  18 years  with 
Autism  Spectrum  Disorder  (ASD)  and  and  /  or  Smith-Magenis  syndrome,  where  sleep 
hygiene  measures  have  been  insufficient  (see  SPC  for  the  full  indication).    It  contains 
melatonin as the active substance and it is given by oral administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Slenyto’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Slenyto’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/slenyto. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of Slenyto, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Slenyto's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
PL and SPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and  regularly  analyzed,  including  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  assessment  so  that 
  These  measures  constitute  routine 
immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Slenyto is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
IIA  List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  Slenyto  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimize 
the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely 
that 
administered/taken. 
the  risk,  so 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.    Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Slenyto.  Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.    Missing 
information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
None 
None 
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Long-term safety in children (> 2 years) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IIB 
Summary of Important Risks/Missing Information 
Missing Information:  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Evidence for Linking the Risk to the Medicine 
Transfer via breast milk and/or physiological excretion 
of melatonin into maternal milk have been shown in 
different animal species and humans; additionally 
melatonin crosses the placenta and shows rhythmic 
variations in breast milk, in parallel with plasma, in 
both humans and goats. 
Risk Factors and Risk Groups 
Pregnant and lactating women 
Risk Minimization Measures 
Additional Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Indication in Section 4.6 of the SPC (Fertility, 
pregnancy and lactation) that there is not sufficient 
data relating to the use of Slenyto during breastfeeding 
and pregnancy.  
Inclusion of warning in the package leaflet that “If you 
are pregnant or breastfeeding, think you may be 
pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor for advice before taking this medicine”. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None. 
Reports describing pregnancy shall be followed up 
and documented until the outcome is known. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None. 
Missing Information:  Long term safety in children (>2 years)  
Evidence for Linking the Risk to the Medicine 
Risk Factors and Risk Groups 
Risk Minimization Measures 
Additional Pharmacovigilance Activities 
There is no official data with the product for a 
duration longer than 2 years. 
The target population and children that will be treated 
off label.  
Indication in Section 4.2 of the SmPC that “Data is 
available for up to 2 year’s treatment” 
Monitor any relevant post marketing safety reports. 
Reports related to long term use would be specifically 
followed up. Final report of the RTU has now been 
submitted.  
Abbreviations:  SPC = summary of product characteristics. 
Data source: 
On file. 
IIC 
Post-Authorization Development Plan 
IIC.1  Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
None. 
IIC.2  Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
