31 March 2021 
EMA/OD/0000033719 
EMADOC-360526170-701918 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Sogroya (somapacitan) 
Treatment of growth hormone deficiency 
EU/3/18/2068 
Sponsor: Novo Nordisk A/S     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 18 February 2021 ........................................ 11 
APPENDIX 1 ........................................................................................................... 12 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Somapacitan 
Other name(s) 
- 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Somapacitan 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Sogroya 
Treatment of growth hormone deficiency  
Novo Nordisk A/S   
Novo Alle 1 
2880 Bagsvaerd  
Hovedstaden 
Denmark  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number  
Novo Nordisk A/S   
27 July 2018 
28 August 2018 
EU/3/18/2068 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
J. L. Hillege / J. M. Race 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Novo Nordisk A/S   
11 September 2019 
3 October 2019 
EMEA/H/C/005030/0000 
Sogroya 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Sogroya is indicated for the replacement of 
endogenous growth hormone (GH) in adults with 
growth hormone deficiency (AGHD). 
Further information on Sogroya can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EP
AR/Sogroya 
CHMP opinion date 
28 January 2021 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
E. J. Rook / Z. Gyula 
Sponsor’s report submission 
21 April 2020 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
3-5 November 2020 
questions  
Oral explanation  
COMP opinion  
17 February 2021 
18 February 2021 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2018 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
The sponsor Novo Nordisk A/S submitted on 21 March 2018 an application for designation as an 
orphan medicinal product to the European Medicines Agency for a medicinal product containing 
somapacitan for treatment of growth hormone deficiency (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”). 
The application was submitted on the basis of Article 3(1)(a) first paragraph of Regulation (EC) No 
141/2000 on orphan medicinal products. 
Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the following: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing somapacitan was 
considered justified based on preliminary clinical data showing IGF-I response upon treatment;  
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to the psychosocial impact, the 
cardiovascular risk, and risk of decreased bone mass and fractures; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 4.7 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made.  
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition exist in the European Union, 
the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal product 
containing somapacitan will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The sponsor 
has provided preliminary clinical data suggesting that treatment with the proposed long-acting growth 
hormone product was more convenient for patients compared to patients receiving currently 
authorised growth hormone products. The Committee considered that the reported patient centred 
outcomes could potentially translate into a major contribution to patient care.  
Thus, the requirement under Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products is fulfilled. 
The COMP concludes that the requirements laid down in Article (3)(1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EC) 
No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products are fulfilled. The COMP therefore recommends the 
designation of this medicinal product, containing somapacitan, as an orphan medicinal product for the 
orphan indication: treatment of growth hormone deficiency. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
Condition 
The approved therapeutic indication “replacement of endogenous growth hormone (GH) in adults with 
growth hormone deficiency (AGHD)” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition 
“Treatment of growth hormone deficiency”. 
The designated condition included both, paediatric and adult forms of growth hormone deficiencies 
(GHD). 
In the paediatric population GHD is primarily idiopathic, whereas in the adult population GHD more 
often is caused by tumours in the central nervous system, cranial irradiation, head trauma or organic 
causes. GHD in children is characterised by a diminished growth velocity and a markedly reduced final 
adult height compared to that predicted (Rosenfeld et al, 2001). In addition to profound growth failure, 
children with GHD develop the same physiological and cognitive abnormalities as the adult population. 
GHD may be present already at birth but is generally first discovered within the first years of 
childhood.  
Adult growth hormone deficiency (AGHD) is characterised by several clinical features that comprises 
general health and quality of life. If left untreated, AGHD is associated with increased body fat, 
decreased lean body mass, reduced bone mineral density, disturbed lipoprotein metabolism, reduced 
exercise capacity, increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and decreased cognition 
and psychological well-being (Alexopoulou et al, 2010; Molitch et al, 2011). 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. See 
EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
No change in the chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature of the condition has been 
reported since the designation of the orphan medicinal product. No new treatments were authorised for 
the condition since the orphan designation stage.  
The condition is associated with a wide range of neuropsychiatric-cognitive, cardiac, metabolic, 
muscular, and bone symptoms. GHD in children is characterised by a diminished growth velocity and a 
markedly reduced final adult height compared to that predicted (Rosenfeld et al, 2001). In addition to 
profound growth failure, children with GHD develop the same physiological and cognitive abnormalities 
as the adult population.  If left untreated, AGHD is associated with increased body fat, decreased lean 
body mass, reduced bone mineral density, disturbed lipoprotein metabolism, reduced exercise 
capacity, increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and decreased cognition and 
psychological well-being (Alexopoulou et al, 2010; Molitch et al, 2011). 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The overall prevalence of GHD (children and adults combined) used as basis for obtaining the orphan 
drug designation has been recalculated to reflect the sponsor’s prevalence estimation as of March 2020 
and is estimated to be 4.9 per 10,000 persons. The recalculated estimate has not significantly changed 
since the time of orphan designation. 
Epidemiological studies of GHD in children included by the sponsor were: Audi et al 2002, Thomas et al 
2004, Migliaretti et al 2006, Stochholm et al 2006, Schweizer et al 2010. The GHD prevalence 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
estimates in the identified studies vary from 1.75 to 9.44 per 10.000 children (in only one study the 
prevalence estimate was above the criteria for orphan drug designation; Migliaretti et al 2006). 
Epidemiological studies of AGHD included by the sponsor were: Regal et al 2001 and Stochholm et al 
2006. Two sensitivity calculations considering a potentially longer disease duration were done. The 
overall prevalence of AGHD based on the sensitivity analysis applying a disease duration of 17.4 and 
25 years corresponds to 3.1 and 5.1 in 10,000 persons, respectively. The overall weighted prevalence 
estimates of GHD in children and adults based on the most conservative scenario (sensitivity analysis) 
are assessed to be 4.1 and 5.1 in 10,000 persons, respectively. 
To provide a consolidated estimate of the prevalence of GHD in the EU population, the most recent 
numbers (2019) describing the demographics in the EU were taken from the EuroStat database 
(http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/data/database. This corresponds to an overall GHD prevalence of 
approximately 4.9 in 10,000 persons. 
Although the proposed prevalence of 4.9 is close to the threshold of 5 in 10,000, the estimate is 
considered valid and on the conservative side. The COMP accepted the prevalence to be less than 4.9. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The standard treatment for patients with GHD (children and adults) in the EU is daily, s.c. injection 
with recombinant hGH (somatropin). The sponsor provided a list of current approved products for daily 
administration in the EU for treatment of GHD in children and adults, all of which contain somatropin 
as active ingredient. No long-acting GH product with have been approved in the EU since the 
designation of the orphan medicinal product. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor compared somapacitan primarily to daily GH (Norditropin) as evaluated in the 
clinical development trials. No protocol assistance has been sought. 
Since the proposed therapeutic indication of this initial marketing authorisation relates to adult GHD 
only, and no paediatric data were part of the dossier for the marketing authorisation application, 
paediatric patient studies were not considered in the evaluation of significant benefit.  
GH replacement therapy with daily injections has been available for decades and is shown to be a safe 
and effective treatment for growth restoring and improving body composition in children and adults 
with GHD, respectively. However, daily injections can be inconvenient, painful and distressing for some 
patients. The aim of developing a long-acting formulation of GH was to lessen the treatment burden of 
daily injections and to promote adherence. 
The main study (n= 300) was a randomised placebo-controlled trial, primarily designed to compare in 
a 34-week double-blind setting the efficacy and safety of once-weekly dosing of somapacitan with 
once-weekly dosing of placebo in AGHD patients who were growth hormone treatment-naïve prior to 
randomization. In a third study arm, the clinical effects of open-label daily treatment with somatropin 
product Norditropin (daily doses) were evaluated. After completion of this main treatment phase, study 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients could enrol into a 53-week open-label extension period in which they were re-randomized to 
receive somapacitan or somatropin.  
In addition, two open-label supportive studies were conducted in AGHD patients who have been 
treated previously with growth hormone (studies 4244 (n= 62) and 4043 (n= 92)). Participants were 
randomized to receive weekly somapacitan or daily somatropin. 
In the main Study 4054, superiority of once weekly somapacitan vs placebo for the primary endpoint 
truncal fat % after 34 weeks of replacement therapy in AGHD patients was confirmed.  
This primary endpoint was supported by secondary outcomes for somapacitan such as a decrease in 
visceral fat, an increase in lean body mass as well as appendicular skeletal muscle mass. However, the 
primary endpoint changes from baseline in truncal fat % and some other fat distribution endpoints was 
lower than with Norditropin (daily injections of growth hormone somatropin), the active control arm. 
Nevertheless, the totality of the observed effects of somapacitan compared to placebo is considered 
clinically relevant. Post-hoc simulations indicate that the titration schedule in the pivotal trial of 
somapacitan had been suboptimal for some patients and that an extended titration schedule may lead 
to more optimal results for these patients, and in a post-authorisation safety study, the extended  
titration schedule will be further explored.   
The reduction in visceral fat and the increases in total lean body mass and appendicular skeletal 
muscle mass with somapacitan were maintained during the 86 weeks of treatment. 
Adherence rates on treatment with once weekly somapacitan and daily Norditropin were numerically 
better after treatment with somapacitan than Norditropin in patients with AGHD (Figure 1) in all three 
studies.  
Figure 1.  Adherence to Somapacitan and Norditropin in the main and supportive studies.  
In clinical practice, adherence to once-weekly somapacitan is assumed to be higher than the 
adherence to once-daily GH replacement. In support of this notion, once-weekly dosing was associated 
with better adherence levels and greater odds of being adherent compared with daily dosing in patients 
with osteoporosis (Iglay et al., 2015). Similarly, in patients with diabetes, convenience of once-weekly 
vs once-daily treatment administration was associated with better adherence in real-world studies 
involving GLP-1 (Giorgino et al, 2018). According to published literature (Rosenfeld RG and Bakker B, 
Endocr Pract. 2008;14(2):143-154) in real world around 35% of patients with AGHD are non-compliant 
and another 30% are occasionally non-compliant. In adults with GHD, 4 months of discontinuation of 
GH replacement therapy resulted in increased abdominal fat accumulation and a deterioration in lipid 
status and systemic inflammation (Filipsson et al, 2012). 
The COMP found extrapolation from the literature regarding adherence in other conditions questionable 
but acknowledged that an improvement in adherence would be clinically relevant in this setting.    
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The COMP scrutinised also the impact of missing a dose in case of once weekly vs. once daily growth 
hormone. The sponsor provided a simulation of pharmacokinetics of somapacitan vs. daily growth 
hormone, to support the notion that missing a dose of somapacitan is not more detrimental than 
missing several doses of the daily growth hormone. In addition, compensation of a forgotten dose was 
foreseen in the product information, allowing for taking the missed dose up to 3 days post scheduled 
date. The impact of occasional non-compliance was therefore seen as comparable between both 
medicines. 
The Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM-9) was applied across all clinical 
randomised trials in AGHD (4054, 4244 and 4043) to evaluate aspects of treatment satisfaction 
(convenience, effectiveness and global satisfaction domains). Treatment satisfaction refers to the 
individual patient’s appraisal of his or her experience with treatment and is thus a subjective benefit-
risk trade off with therapy which the sponsor considered a partial proxy for adherence to therapy in 
clinical practice. 
Table 1. TSQM-9 domain scores at week 34 - Trial 4054 
Table 2. TSQM-9 domain scores – Trials 4043 and 4244 
The sponsor argued that the differences in global satisfaction in the main study may have been biased 
due to the fact that the somatropin (Norditropin) study arm was open-label, and patients were thus 
aware that they got an effective treatment. In contrast, the assignment to somapacitan was blinded. 
The post-hoc analyses of patients switching from Norditropin to somapacitan, in the open-label 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
extension phase of the study, showed that the effectiveness and global satisfaction scores were more 
similar after switching. Notably, across all studies, the convenience score was in favour of 
somapacitan.  
Figure 2.  TSQM-9 global satisfaction and effectiveness domains in the phase 3 trials in AGHD 
Figure 3.  TSQM-9 convenience scores in phase 3 trials in AGHD 
Both, the sponsor and the COMP, involved patient experts whose testimonies helped clarify the 
importance of the convenience for improving the adherence to treatment. The need to refrigerate most 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
daily growth hormone products was mentioned as impacting the ability to travel or decisions on 
skipping medication. The sponsor also further discussed the small difference (albeit consistent across 3 
clinical trials) in adherence, in favour of somapacitan.  
The true real-world compliance with somapacitan is impossible to assess at this point. Therefore, the 
data on treatment convenience and adherence were considered with caution. However, taking into 
consideration the totality of evidence presented by the sponsor and the testimonies of both patient 
experts, the COMP considered that the assumption of significant benefit of somapacitan on basis of 
major contribution to patient care still holds. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 18 February 2021 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of growth hormone deficiency (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be less than 4.9 in 10,000 persons 
in the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to delayed puberty and deficits in facial, dental and 
genital development, associated with reduced bone mass with increased risk of developing 
osteopenia, osteoporosis, and bone fractures. Adult growth hormone deficiency is associated with 
abdominal obesity, decreased lean body mass, reduced muscle strength and exercise capacity. 
Patients also experience severe psychosocial problems linked to the very short stature; 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Sogroya may be of potential significant benefit to those 
affected by the orphan condition still holds. The sponsor provided global treatment satisfaction 
data from the pivotal clinical trial demonstrating that Sogroya (once weekly growth hormone) and 
Norditropin (once daily growth hormone) are of comparable effectiveness. However, convenience 
scores were improved for Sogroya as compared to the Norditropin control. In addition, treatment 
adherence was marginally better in the Sogroya treatment arm, which is expected to be more 
pronounced in the real-life setting. The totality of evidence presented was accepted as supporting 
the argument of the major contribution to patient care.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Sogroya, somapacitan for 
treatment of growth hormone deficiency (EU/3/18/2068) is not removed from the Community Register 
of Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
Divergent position expressed by some members of the COMP 
Although it is acknowledged that the once weekly dosing schedule of somapacitan may be perceived as 
more convenient for some adult GHD patients compared to the regular growth hormone preparations 
that have to be administered daily, this is overall not considered sufficient as an argumentation for 
significant benefit. The assumption of better compliance is challenged, because patients did not 
perceive a benefit regarding effectiveness and global treatment satisfaction as compared to daily 
growth hormone. In addition, there is no data confirming better compliance or better efficacy in real 
world daily practice. There are concerns that lack of adherence to the posology might have more 
detrimental effect clinically for a weekly dose, versus a daily dose. 
COMP members expressing divergent position: 
Elisabeth Penninga (Denmark)   
Elisabeth Rook (Netherlands) 
Michel Hoffmann (Luxembourg)  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000033719 
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
