Summary of the risk management plan for SomaKit TOC 
(gallium (68Ga) edotreotide)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for SomaKit TOC. 
The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  SomaKit  TOC,  how  these  risks  can  be 
minimized, and how more information will be obtained about SomaKit TOC's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information).
SomaKit TOC’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package 
leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients 
on how SomaKit TOC should be used.
This summary of the RMP for SomaKit TOC should be read in the context of 
all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and 
its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of SomaKit TOC’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
SomaKit TOC is authorized for diagnostic use only. It contains gallium (68Ga) 
edotreotide as the active substance. After radiolabelling with gallium (68Ga) 
chloride  solution,  the  solution  of  gallium  (68Ga)  edotreotide  obtained  is 
indicated for PET imaging of somatostatin receptor overexpression in adult 
patients  with  confirmed  or  suspected  well-differentiated  GEP-NET  for 
localizing  primary  tumors  and  their  metastases  (see  SmPC  for  the  full 
indication).  It  should  only  be  administered  by  trained  healthcare 
professionals  with  technical  expertise  in  using  and  handling  nuclear 
medicine  diagnostic  agents  and  only  in  a  designated  nuclear  medicine 
facility. The recommended activity for an adult weighing 70 kg is 100 to 200 
MBq, administered by direct slow intravenous injection.
Further information about the evaluation of SomaKit TOC’s benefits can be 
found in SomaKit TOC’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, 
available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: link to the 
EPAR summary landing page: 
www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/somakit-toc
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks
There are no important potential risks or missing information for SomaKit 
TOC.
Important  identified  risks  of  SomaKit  TOC,  together  with  measures  to 
minimize such risks are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the SmPC and package leaflet addressed to healthcare professionals 
and patients
The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g., with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is 
collected continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment 
(if applicable), so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
PET findings interpretation errors
None
None
II B: Summary of important risks
Table 2
Important identified risk: PET findings interpretation 
errors
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Not observed in clinical development. However, 
there are literature cases describing 
misinterpretation of physiological uptake of gallium 
(68Ga) edotreotide by splenic tissue as 
neuroendocrine tumors, which resulted in 
unnecessary surgical intervention. Also, there is a 
potential for incorrect interpretation/ diagnosis due 
to high physiological uptake of gallium (68Ga) 
edotreotide by some organs (spleen, kidneys, liver, 
pituitary gland, thyroid gland and adrenals) as well 
as in other diseases characterized by high local 
somatostatin receptor concentrations.
Risk factors and 
risk groups
- Patients in whom incorrect dose was 
administered
- Drug-drug interaction (somatostatin and its 
analogues; corticosteroids)
- Patients with spleen disorders
- Patients with Cushing's syndrome
Risk minimization 
measures
- Patients with another disease or pathologic 
condition characterized by high local 
somatostatin receptor concentrations such as:
- Subacute inflammations (areas of 
lymphocyte concentrations, including 
reactive lymph nodes, for example 
following vaccination)
- Thyroid diseases (e.g thyroid autonomy 
and Hashimoto’s disease)
- Tumours of the pituitary gland, neoplasms 
of the lungs (small-cell carcinoma), 
meningiomas, mammary carcinomas, 
lymphoproliferative disease (e.g Hodgkin's 
disease and non-Hodgkin lymphomas) 
- Tumours arising from tissue 
embryologically derived from the neural 
crest (e.g. paragangliomas, medullary 
thyroid carcinomas, neuroblastomas, 
pheochromocytomas). 
Routine risk minimization measures
• SmPC Section 4.4 provides guidance on the 
interpretation of gallium (68Ga) edotreotide 
images and limitations of use. Considering that 
an increased uptake of gallium (68Ga) 
edotreotide is not specific for GEP-NET, 
healthcare professionals should be aware that 
further imaging or histological and/or other 
relevant investigations may be required to 
establish the diagnosis. Spleen disorders (e.g. 
splenectomy, splenosis and accessory 
intrapancreatic spleen) should be considered as 
a relevant factor when reporting the outcome of 
somatostatin receptor targeted diagnostics. 
Positive results also require evaluating the 
possibility that another disease, characterized 
by high local somatostatin receptor 
concentrations, may be present.  In patients 
with GEP-NET and Cushing syndrome, 
normalization of hypercortisolism is 
recommended.
• SmPC Section 4.5 provides guidance on the use 
of somatostatins and its analogues, 
corticosteroids and normalization of endogenous 
hypercortisolism prior to gallium (68Ga) 
edotreotide administration
• Package leaflet, Section 2
Additional risk minimization measure
• None
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or 
specific obligation of SomaKit TOC.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There  are  no  studies  in  post-authorization  development  plan  for  SomaKit 
TOC. 
