EMA/790890/2018 
EMEA/H/C/000409 
Somavert (pegvisomant) 
An overview of Somavert and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Somavert and what is it used for? 
Somavert is a medicine used to treat adults with acromegaly, a rare hormonal disorder that usually 
occurs in middle-aged adults and is caused by the pituitary gland producing excess growth hormone. 
Somavert is used in patients who did not respond well to surgery and/or radiation therapy, and to 
treatment with somatostatin analogues (another type of medicine used in acromegaly). 
Somavert contains the active substance pegvisomant. 
How is Somavert used? 
Somavert can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who 
has experience in the treatment of acromegaly. Somavert is available as powder and solvent that are 
mixed together to make up a solution for injection under the skin.  
Before starting and during treatment with Somavert, the patient should have tests to measure levels of 
liver enzymes in the blood. If levels are too high, the doctor may decide not to begin or to stop 
treatment with Somavert.  
The patient first receives a starting dose of 80 mg under medical supervision. Following this, Somavert 
is given as an injection of 10 mg once a day. The patient or caregiver can inject Somavert after being 
trained by a doctor or a nurse. The doctor should check the response every four to six weeks and 
adjust the dose if needed. The maximum dose is 30 mg per day. 
For more information about using Somavert, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Somavert work? 
Acromegaly occurs when the pituitary gland at the base of the brain makes too much growth hormone, 
generally because of a benign (non-cancerous) tumour. Growth hormone promotes growth during 
childhood and adolescence. In adults, rather than gaining height, overproduction of growth hormone 
leads to acromegaly, with overgrowth of bone, swelling of soft tissue (such as the hands and feet), 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
heart disease and other disorders. The active substance in Somavert, pegvisomant, is very similar to 
human growth hormone, but it has been designed so that it blocks the receptors to which growth 
hormone normally attaches itself. By blocking the receptors, Somavert prevents growth hormone from 
having an effect, thereby preventing the unwanted growth and other disorders seen in acromegaly.  
What benefits of Somavert have been shown in studies? 
Somavert has been studied in 112 patients with acromegaly in a 12-week study. Patients received a 
starting dose of 80 mg Somavert or placebo (a dummy treatment). Afterwards, they received 10, 15 or 
20 mg Somavert per day or placebo. The effectiveness was measured by comparing the levels of 
insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) before and at the end of the study. IGF-I is regulated by human 
growth hormone and causes growth in the body. 
Somavert lowered IGF-I levels at all of the doses tested. IGF-I levels were normal at the end of the 
study (week 12) in 38.5%, 75% and 82% of patients treated with 10, 15 or 20 mg/day Somavert, 
respectively, compared with 9.7% of the patients treated with placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Somavert? 
The most common side effects of Somavert (seen in more than 1 in 10 people) were headache, 
diarrhoea and joint pain. The majority of side effects were mild to moderate and of limited duration.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Somavert, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Somavert authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Somavert’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Somavert? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Somavert have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Somavert are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Somavert are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Somavert 
Somavert received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 November 2002.  
Further information on Somavert can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Somavert.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Somavert (pegvisomant)  
EMA/790890/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
