SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Sonovue and has  been 
updated until 1 October 2004. For information on changes after this date please refer to module 
8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
The  development  of  contrast  agents  for  ultrasound  examinations  began  during  the  1980s.  These 
contrast agents can be used diagnostically for several purposes: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Better contrast resolution between normal and abnormal tissues; 
Better outlining of cavities, such as the cardiac cavities, and vessels; 
Enhancement of Doppler signals in blood flow measurements; 
Tissue characterization. 
The  basic  principle  of  the  first  echo-enhancing  agents  was  to  produce  microscopic  gas  bubbles  by 
shaking  the  agent,  which,  when  injected  into  a  peripheral  vein,  gave  rise  to  altered  acoustic  echoes 
from blood or tissue. The newer contrast agents are in the form of stabilised microbubble dispersions. 
In  the  context  of  echocardiography,  notwithstanding  the  availability  of  echo-enhancing  agents  there 
are  still  limitations  in  day-to-day  clinical  echocardiography,  i.e.  a  reliable  definition  of  the  entire 
endocardial  perimeter  of  the  left  ventricle  which  is  based  upon  complete  opacification  and  clear 
endocardial border delineation, and identification of the morphology of the left ventricle. Suboptimal 
detection of the endocardial border makes the assessment of segmental and global left ventricle kinetic 
function  less  reliable.  Similar  fluorocarbon-containing  products  that  have  been  authorised  via  a 
centralised  procedure  in  an  echocardiography  indication,  provide  a  satisfactory  duration  of  useful 
contrast for evaluation of wall motion (2.5 to 4.5 minutes, depending on the dose). 
These  contrast  agents  have  been  approved  for  use  in  B-mode  echocardiography  in  patients  with 
suspected  or  established  cardiovascular  disease  to  provide  opacification  of  the  left  ventricle  and 
cardiac  chambers,  and  to  improve  left  ventricular  endocardial  border  delineation,  with  resulting 
improvement in wall  motion  visualisation. Patients should have had a  previous  examination without 
contrast enhancement, which turned out to be inconclusive. 
In this submission, the applicant originally claimed a number of non-cardiac uses for SonoVue. In the 
context of non-cardiac Doppler Vascular Ultrasonography, it was claimed that echo-enhancing agents 
could in principle be used to improve signals from blood in: 
• 
• 
large vessels to enhance weak signals resulting from deep vessels or slow flow, 
small vessels to identify hyperaemia or ischaemia (such as in tumour detection), 
However, in the opinion of the CPMP, the data as originally submitted were not sufficient to support 
all  of  these  claims  (  See  Section  5  of  this  report,  overall  conclusions  on  efficacy  and  benefit  risk 
assessment. ) 
Sonovue is a stabilised microbubble preparation containing sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), an echogenic, 
poorly soluble gas. The  microbubbles  of  gas are  stabilised  in aqueous dispersion  by a  monolayer of 
phospholipids.  After  reconstitution  of  the  25  mg  lyophilisate  with  5  ml  sodium  chloride  0.9%w/v 
solution for injection, these SF6-containing phospholipids are in dispersion in the aqueous vehicle. As 
with  other  dispersed  systems  used  as  ultrasound  contrast  media,  the  active  part  of  the  product  (  the 
echogenic system) is the interface between the gas and the liquid phase in the microbubble dispersion. 
Two presentations are defined, each containing 8 microlitre/ml SF6 after reconstitution, but differing in 
the medical device elements included in the pack to facilitate reconstitution and administration. 
1/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.   Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Each  type  I  colourless  glass  vial  (11.5ml)  contains  25mg  sterile  pyrogen-free  lyophilised  white 
powder (dispersing and stabilising agents), and the head-space of the vial contains the active substance 
sulphur hexafluoride gas. 
The  lyophilisate  is  composed  of  macrogol  4000  and  distearoyl-phosphatidylcholine  (DSCP), 
dipalmitoylphosphatidylglycerol sodium (DPPG.Na), and palmitic acid as microbubble stabilisers. 
The vials are closed with butyl rubber stoppers coated with a fluoropolymer film. 
Two  presentations  are  intended.  Sealing  is  performed  either  with  a  Bio-Set  system  or  an  aluminium 
cap  with  a  polypropylen  disc  (Flipcap  system).  The  Bio-Set  system  is  an  integral  plastic  seal  which 
holds the stopper and is also used as a spike for the delivery of the saline solution at the reconstitution. 
In  case  of  vials sealed with Flipcap, they will be supplied with a separate  commercial ‘spike’ (Mini 
Spike Plus 6/8 R) to assist reconstitution. 
Following reconstitution, both presentations contain 8 microlitre/ml SF6 as a lipid-stabilised dispersion 
in the aqueous phase.  
Active substance 
Sulphur hexafluoride is obtained from reaction of fluorine with sulphur vaporised in special furnaces 
and followed by purification. Fluorine is obtained from electrolysis of hydrofluoric acid. 
S + 3 F2 → SF6 
Impurities  from  the  synthetic  process  may  theoretically  include-  HF,  CF4,  air,  as  well  as  sulphur 
containing impurities : SOF2,  SO2F2, SF4, S2F10. In particular, S2F10 is a toxic potential by-product of 
SF6 , although never detected in practice. 
The specification contains tests for purity ( >99.9% SF6 ) and relevant impurities. 
Stability: 
Samples  from  three  commercial  batches,  in  commercial  40  kg  half-filled  cylinders,  were  stored 
inverted in  temperature and  humidity controlled cabinets  under ICH  conditions. The  proposed  retest 
period of 36 months is supported by the results. 
Other ingredients 
Macrogol 4000, isopropyl alcohol, Water for Injections comply with the PhEur monographs. 
The Non-compendial ingredients are tested according to internal monographs, and furthermore do not 
present a risk in the context of TSE. 
Various  device  elements  are  included  in  each  presentation  to  assist  reconstitution;  these  meet  the 
requirements of EU Medical Devices legislation.  
Product development and finished product 
Various formulae were used for clinical trials.  
The  other  ingredients  (used  mainly  to  ensure  good  dispersibility  of  the  gas)  were  varied  but  the 
differences  between  the  formulations  are  considered  non  significant  by  the  experts  as  it  has  been 
demonstrated that the addition of palmitic acid and the slight change in phospholipid content does not 
significantly change the acoustic parameters. 
agents 
dispersing 
The 
and 
Dipalmitoylphosphatidylglycerol (DPPG.Na) as sodium salt. These emulsifying agents at the selected 
ratio are able to disperse the hydrophobic gas phase in the hydrophilic phase constituted by water and 
Macrogol 4000.  
Distearoylphosphatidylcholine 
(DSPC) 
used 
are 
2/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
Palmitic acid is used to stabilise the interfacial layer. It also ensures the good stability of the product in 
the freeze dried state for a sufficient shelf-life period and promotes a better particle size regulation of 
bubbles throughout the various batches manufactured during the development of the product. 
The applicant declares that the phospholipids form a monolayer around the gas bubble.  
By  means  of  these  agents,  after  activation  a  bubble  size  of  average  2  to  8  µm  and  practically  no 
bubbles over 15 µm is achieved. The volume of gas in the microbubbles (Coulter counter method) is  
2-10µl/ml 
To explain the choice of the quantitative composition, several development tests were used: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
bubble diameter by use of electronical particle size analyser (Coulter multisizer) 
the acoustic properties 
the resistance to pressure 
microbubble volume concentration. 
Of  the  parameters  studied  (SF6  content  in  the  gas  phase  of  the  vial,  %  of  phospholipids, 
macrogol/phospholipids  ratio,  volume  of  saline  solution  added  for  the  reconstitution,  etc.)  few  have 
little  effective  influence  on  the  microbubble  volume  concentration,  echogenicity  and  bubble  size 
distribution  in  the  product  prior  to  administration.  On  the  other  hand,  it  has  been  shown  that  the 
microbubble volume concentration  is a relevant parameter which reflects the echogenicity (by contrast 
there appears to be a poor correlation between bubble number and echogenicity ) 
Product Specification 
The product specification contains relevant tests for identity of SF6, and the excipients are all specified 
and controlled quantitatively at batch release.  
The microbubble volume concentration after reconstitution can vary widely without having an impact 
on  efficacy  or  safety  .  The  optimum  value  specified  is  8  microlitres  SF6  per  ml  of  reconstituted 
dispersion,  derived  from  clinical  studies.  The  size  distribution  of  the  resulting  microbubbles  is  
90% < NMT 8µm; 99% < NMT 15 µm. 
Additional tests include the usual requirements relating to sterility and pyrogens etc. 
Batch analyses confirm satisfactory uniformity with the proposed specification. 
Stability of the Product 
Physicochemical  stability  of  the  product  has  been  investigated  in  three  batches,  stored  as  follows: 
25°C/60%RH  :  30  months,  30°C/60%RH  :  12  months,  40°C/75%RH  :  6  months,  including 
photostability  studies.  Particular  attention  has  been  paid  to  confirming  the  microbubble  size 
distribution  characteristics  following  reconstitution  of  stored  product.  The  results  support  the 
unopened  shelflife  and  storage  conditions  as  defined  in  the  SPC.  The  quality  characteristics  and 
stability of the solvent ( 0.9%w/v sodium chloride solution for injection ) are satisfactory. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  novel  aspects  of  the  formulation  upon  which  evaluation  has  focussed,  relate  to  the  lipid 
stabilisation  of  a  gas  dispersion  in  a  liquid,  and  the  maintenance  of  satisfactory  particle  size 
characteristics  following  reconstitution  to  allow  consistent  and  uniform  echogenic  properties  from 
batch to batch without a danger of large bubbles which may in theory cause an embolism. The product 
is manufactured under satisfactory GMP conditions, and physicochemical aspects are considered to be 
satisfactory for a product of this type. 
3/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
3.  
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics  
All studies were performed with a formulation devoid of palmitic acid, in contrast to the formulation 
used  in  clinics,  however  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  comparative  stability  and  rheology  of  both 
formulations. 
Pharmacodynamics related to the proposed indications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
In  vitro  acoustic  studies  show  that  the  most  significant  contribution  is  given  by  the  bubble 
population between 2.5 and 5.5 µm diameter. 
The variations of the backscatter and of attenuation are negligible in the 2-10 MHz range. 
Sonovue produced a full left ventricular opacification in rat, minipig and rabbit with improved 
endocardial border delineation. 
In pigs and sheep, Sonovue produced an enhanced spectral color and power Doppler signal in 
peripheral  vessels  of  several  diameters  (femoral,  renal,  mid-cerebral,  carotid  arteries,  portal 
vein).  
General pharmacology 
• 
• 
• 
Sonovue was devoid of cardiovascular and respiratory effects in rat, rabbit minipig and sheep. 
In  the  dog,  transient  hypotension,  thrombocytopenia  and  leucopenia  were  observed,  probably 
due to histamine release. 
The formulation devoid of palmitic acid did not impair blood flow rate in major organs, did not 
modify  blood  gases,  did  not  affect  the  cerebral  circulation,  did  not  alter  in  vitro  platelet 
aggregation  nor  in  vitro  human  blood  coagulation  at  doses  corresponding  to  30  times  the 
recommended dose in clinics, and 10 times the maximal authorised dose in clinics, assuming a 
maximum  of  three  consecutive  injections.  Red  blood  cells  morphology  was  modified  at  final 
50% (v/v) concentrations of Sonovue (leptocytes and echinocytes). 
Pharmacokinetics 
One preclinical pharmacokinetic study was performed in the rabbit :  
Two  single  doses,  0.3  ml/kg  of  Sonovue  (formulation  devoid  of  palmitic  acid),  corresponding  to 
approximately  10  and  30  times  respectively  the  recommended  imaging  dose  in  human,  were 
administered intravenously.  
SF6  was  assayed  in  plasma,  urine  and  exhaled  air  by  using  a  validated  gas  chromatography  method 
coupled with electron capture detector. The limit of quantification of this technique was 0.02 ng/ml. 
Results show that blood level decay of SF6 is extremely fast  :  
• 
about  80%  of  the  injected  dose  is  cleared  after  the  first  minute  following  administration  of 
Sonovue  
blood  levels  of  SF6  drop  to  background  levels  by  11  min  (dose :  0.3ml/kg)  and  20  min  
(dose : 1 ml/kg).  
Total blood clearance of SF6 is rapid (218 to 231 ml/min/kg) and half-life elimination is less than 
1 minute. 
• 
• 
SF6 is almost exclusively eliminated via the pulmonary route.  
98  %  of  the  injected  dose  was  recovered  in  exhaled  air  within  2  minutes.  Only  negligible  trace 
amounts of SF6 (0.1 ng/g urine, i.e. < 0.001 % of the injected dose) were detected in urine contained in 
the bladder at 2 h. 
Toxicology 
Toxicological  evaluation  of  Sonovue  was  performed  with  an  initial  formulation,  devoid  of  palmitic 
acid.  Only  reproduction  toxicological  studies  were  performed  using  the  final  formulation.  Palmitic 
acid (8 ppm) was added in the final formulation to improve the long-term stability of the lyophilisate. 
4/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
Single  Dose  StudiesSonovue  administered  at  a  dosage  up  to  20  ml/kg  (500  fold  more  than  the 
expected dose in humans) in rats and monkeys using the IV route did not induce any adverse effects or 
animal deaths. The acute toxicity potential of Sonovue is probably very low. 
Repeated Dose Studies 
In  a  4  week  study  in  SD  rats  (0;  0,2;  1;  5  ml/kg)  caecitis,  colitis,  caecum  erosion  and  ulcers  were 
observed from 0,2 ml/kg (dose-related in females but not in males). The effects were reversible within 
14  days  after  treatment  cessation.  Colon  erosion  was  observed  in  one  animal  at  the  5  ml/kg  dose. 
These  toxic  effects  were  not  observed  in  a  confirmatory  study  in  rats  and  in  a  similar  study  in 
cynomolgous  monkeys.    Nor  was  caecum  inflammation  observed  in  the  fertility  and  general 
reproductive performance studies conducted in male and female rats. The mechanism of the toxicity to 
the  gastrointestinal  system  observed  in  the  one  rat  study  was  not  elucidated.  However,  it  must  be 
noticed that it was observed only in one study and one species. 
In  summary,  Sonovue  up  to  5  ml/kg  administered  for  28  days  by  the  IV  route  to  rats  and  monkeys 
showed a low toxicity potential in rats and monkeys. 
Toxicokinetic measurements were not performed in these repeated-dose toxicity studies. 
Reproduction Toxicity Studies 
Reproduction  toxicity  studies  included  fertility  and  general  reproductive  performance  in  rats  with  a 
treatment  of  the  females  up  to  day  17  after  mating,  embryotoxicity  in  rabbits,  peri-  and  post-natal 
toxicity in rats. 
In the repeated-dose toxicity study conducted in rats Sonovue was devoid of testicular toxicity. Hence, 
it was possible to reduce the premating treatment of the males in fertility studies to 2-4 weeks. 
Effects of Sonovue on reproductive functions: 
Sonovue administered at dosages up to 5 ml/kg did not show any adverse effects on fertility, gestation 
and litters. Sonovue is not embryotoxic nor teratogenic and F1 development was normal. The NOAEL 
for both maternal and developmental toxicity is 5 ml/kg. 
Mutagenicity Studies 
Sonovuewas neither mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium nor clastogenic in human lymphocytes in 
vitro or in the mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay 
Carcinogenicity Studies 
Carcinogenicity Studies were not performed due to the intended use of this product. This is acceptable 
and in agreement with current EU Guidelines on development of medicinal products for imaging . 
Local Tolerance 
SonoVue did not induce any effects in one study in rabbits  either the IV route (ear vein, dose up to  
10 ml/animal) or the S.C. route (ear vein, up to 0,5 ml/animal).  
Special Toxicity Studies 
Sonovue was tested for its compatibility with blood and serum elements. No effects on haematocrit or 
coagulation neither increased haemolysis were noticed.  
However,  a  50%  solution  of  Sonovue  altered  erythrocytes  morphology  (leptocytes,  echinocytes), 
whereas a 20% solution exhibited no effects.  
Sonovue has no effect on ADP or collagen-induced platelets aggregation. 
Sonovue  appears  to  have  a  good  compatibility  with  the  blood  but  a  50%  solution  provokes 
modifications in erythrocytes morphology. 
Toxicity of SF6 
The applicant has provided an analysis of the toxicity of SF6 based on the literature.  
5/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
DL50  of  SF6  is  5790  mg/kg  (the  recommended  0,02  ml/kg  dose  of  Sonovue  contains  2.1  µg/kg  of 
SF6).  Up  to  1000  ppm  (6070  mg/m3)  are  authorised  in  working  places  for  long-term  exposure  
(8-hour TWA reference period). 
Toxicity of PEG 4000 
A critical evaluation of the toxicity of PEGs based on the literature is provided by the Applicant. 
It  is  well  known  that  large  doses  of  high  molecular  weight  PEGs  may  induce  acidosis,  increase  in 
osmolarity gap and renal failure. The intravenous LD50 of PEG 4000 is 7,5 g/kg in rats and 16 g/kg in 
mice.  Sonovue  contains  0.2  mg  PEG  4000  per  ml,  and  since  the  recommended  dose  of  Sonovue  in 
clinics  is  2  to  2.4  ml  (possibly  twice),  injection  of  PEG  4000  as  part  of  Sonovue  is  not  expected  to 
result in the occurrence of toxicological manifestations. 
SF6 impurities 
The  purity  of  SF6  as  stipulated  by  the  applicant  is  >99,9%.  A  single  dose  of  Sonovue  is  2,4  ml 
(recommended human posology), containing 8 µl SF6/ml = 19 µl SF6. Total impurities administered to 
humans with Sonovue are thus 0, 1% x 19 µl = 0,019 µl (0.114 µg total equivalent to 0,0019 µg/kg). 
The  most  toxic  expected  impurity  of  SF6  is  sulphur  pentafluoride  (S2F10)  with  a  8-hour  TWA  of  
0,025 ppm. Analysis of different batches of SF6 has shown that quantities of S2F10 were below 10 ppb 
which is the limit of quantification. 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
Due  to  the  very  small  amounts,  which  are  administered,  no  significant  impact  on  the  environment 
arising from use in accordance with the SPC is expected. SF6 has negligible ozone-depleting properties 
compared to the chloro-fluorocarbons. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
A complete set of toxicological studies was performed, including acute toxicology and repeated-dose 
toxicology  studies  in  rats  and  monkeys,  reproduction  toxicology  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits,  in  vitro 
and  in  vivo  mutagenicity  studies,  local  tolerance  studies  and  blood  compatibility  studies.  All  the 
protocols were performed according to GLP.  
Only  toxicokinetic  data  are  missing  in  the  toxicological  dossier,  which  has  been  justified  by  the 
applicant  on  the  grounds  that  the  active  substance  is  inert,  present  in  very  small  amounts  and  is 
eliminated rapidly. Moreover, there were justified methodological difficulties related to the collection 
of  very  small  quantities  of  gas  and  analysis  close  to  the  limit  of  detection.  This  is  considered 
acceptable. 
Administration of Sonovue showed a low toxicity potential. Only in one study conducted in rats was 
observed an inflammation of the caecum which was dose-dependent in females but not in males. This 
effect was not repeated in a second study in rats and was not observed in monkeys.  
Sonovue is not teratogenic nor embryotoxic.   
Sonovue does not appear to be mutagenic. 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted which is acceptable in light of the intended use of the 
product. Sonovue didn’t show any toxicity at the injection site. 
The amounts of SF6, S2F10 and PEG present in the maximum recommended therapeutic dose are far 
below (respectively 1.3 µg, < 10 ppb and 1.16 mg) the currently permitted concentrations in working 
places for long-term exposure.   
The  NOEL  of  Sonovue  is  5  ml/kg  corresponding  to  >100-fold  more  than  the  intended  posology  in 
humans  
Although, the toxicological profile was assessed only with the former formulation devoid of palmitic 
acid. (with the exception of reproduction studies), it can be assumed that palmitic acid would not have 
any significant effect on the toxicological profile of Sonovue. 
6/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
As  originally  submitted, 
the  clinical  dossier  was  composed  of  a  cardiac  programme 
( Echocardiography) and a non-cardiac programme ( Doppler ultrasonography ). The total number of 
subjects  in  the  combined  clinical  programme  was  1573,  1419  of  whom  received  SonoVue  and  154 
received comparator. The studies can be further summarised as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
- 
- 
- 
7  dynamic  studies  relating  to  the  indications  as  originally  applied  for,  i.e.  B_mode 
echocardiography, Doppler echocardiography, Doppler Ultrasonography of the portal vein, renal 
arteries, cerebral arteries, 
3 dynamic studies in special populations ; CHF, COPD, prolonged duration of enhancement, (  
2 pharmacokinetic studies, 
8 Phase II/III, 6 confirmatory and 2 supportive efficacy & safety studies, in:  
B-mode echocardiography,  
Doppler imaging of large vessels ( cerebral arteries, carotid or peripheral arteries, abdominal or 
renal arteries) 
Doppler imaging of vasculature of focal parenchymal lesions ( microvasaculature) 
Pharmacodynamics 
5 studies were performed in healthy volunteers : BR1-001, BR1-002, BR1-007, BR1-008, BR1-009 
2 studies were performed in patients with coronary heart disease and valvular heart disease. 
All studies were aimed at assessing safety and tolerability of Sonovue, and all were escalating dose 
studies except for BR1-007. 
Clinical pharmacodynamics program 
Study type 
Study N° 
Dosage 
Nb of subjects 
Sonovue 
placebo 
BR1-001a 
BR1-001b
BR1-002 
B-mode echocardiography in healthy volunteers 
4 single ascending doses 
BR1-007 
BR1-005 
4 repeated ascending 
cumulative doses 
Repeated fixed doses 
B-mode echocardiography in patients volunteers 
Patients with coronary heart 
disease and suboptimal border 
delineation 
Doppler echocardiography in patients volunteers 
Patients with valvular heart 
disease and suboptimal border 
delineation 
Doppler ultrasonography in healthy volunteers 
Portal vein and renal artery 
BR1-006 
BR1-008 
0.003 to 0.12 
ml/kg 
0.15 to 0.650 
ml/kg 
4 x 2 ml 
0.5 to 4 ml 
(4 doses) 
0.3 to 2.4 ml 
(4 doses) 
0.15 to 1.3 ml 
(4 doses) 
0.3 to 2.4 ml 
(4 doses) 
Cerebral arteries 
BR1-009 
Results: 
Exploratory echocardiographic studies  
24 
20 
10 
36 
43 
11 
12 
12 
10 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
• 
The most adequate mode of administration is an IV bolus followed by a 5-ml flush of saline. 
7/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Repetition intervals of Sonovue injections in cross-over trials should be of at least 10 minutes to 
avoid carry-over effects. 
Sonovue improves endocardial border delineation in left ventricular cavity when compared to 
placebo from the doses of 0.7 ml in healthy volunteers and 0.5 ml in patients. 
The best balance between contrast enhancement and attenuation, with the maximum duration of 
contrast enhancement, appeared from the 0.7 to the 4.2 ml dose (0.01 to 0.06 ml/kg). 
Good contrast enhancement was observed at all transducer frequencies between 2.5 and  
5.0 MHz. 
This justifies the choice of the 0.5 to 4 ml dose regimens to be tested in phase II and III studies 
conducted in echocardiography. 
Exploratory Doppler ultrasonography of vessels 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Administration of Sonovue by power injection syringe required a 3/10 dilution 
The best repetition intervals between two injections in cross over trials should be longer than 10 
minutes to avoid a carry-over effect. 
The most adequate method for ultrasonography of slow velocity flow vessels such as portal vein 
is the spectral Doppler. 
The most adequate method for ultrasonography of high velocity flow vessels such as renal 
artery is the power Doppler. 
Pulsed wave spectral Doppler and colour Doppler are effective in imaging cerebral arteries. 
Satisfactory improvement in Doppler images were obtained from the 0.3 ml dose. 
This justifies the choice of the 0.3 to 2.4 ml dose regimens in efficacy studies conducted in Doppler 
imaging of vessels. 
The pharmacodynamic dossier is complete and well-realised. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  information  summarised  in  this  section  was  derived  from  12  healthy  volunteers  and  13  patients 
with compromised pulmonary function enrolled in 2 studies, 24 subjects were evaluated. A validated 
method  of  gas  chromatography  coupled  with  an  electron  capture  detector  was  the  method  used  for 
assay  in  blood  and  exhaled  air.  The  lower  limit  of  quantification  was  0.02  ng/ml  in  plasma  and  in 
exhaled air.  
Pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers : study BR1-010 
Five females  and seven  males  were  administered single intravenous doses  of  Sonovue (0.03 and  0.3 
ml/kg, i.e. the intended dose  level and 10 times this dose level, respectively) in a randomised cross-
over  design.  Concentrations  of  SF6  in  both  the  blood  and  expired  air  were  determined  through  90 
minutes post-injection.  
Pharmacokinetics  in  at  risk  population :  study  BR1-016  in  patients  with  compromised  pulmonary 
function 
Because  Sonovue  is  eliminated  entirely  via  the  lungs,  study  BR1-036  was  designed  to  assess  the 
pharmacokinetic profile in patients with compromised pulmonary function.  
Eight males and five females with known diagnosis of diffuse interstitial pulmonary fibrosis received a 
single intravenous 0.3 ml/kg dose of Sonovue.  
Collection of blood and expired air samples for analysis was completed approximately two hours after 
Sonovue administration.  
Results and Conclusions on the clinical pharmacokinetic studies 
8/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
After a single intravenous injection of 0.03 or 0.3 ml of Sonovue/kg (approximately 1 and 10 times the 
maximum  clinical  dose)  to  human  volunteers,  SF6  was  cleared  rapidly  via  the  lungs.  The  mean 
terminal half-life was 12 minutes (range : 2 to 33 minutes). More than 80 % of the administered dose 
was recovered in exhaled air within 2 minutes after injection and 100 % after 15 minutes. In patients 
with  diffuse  interstitial  pulmonary  fibrosis,  the  percent  of  dose  recovered  in  expired  air  averaged  
100 % and the terminal half-life was similar to that measured in healthy volunteers.  
No  dosage  adjustment  seems  to  be  warranted  in  patients  with  diffuse  interstitial  pulmonary  fibrosis. 
There  are  no  pharmacokinetic  data  documenting  the  effect  of  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease  
(a rather common condition) on the pharmacokinetics of Sonovue. The applicant justified this on the 
basis  that  in  DIFP  the  majority  of  the  main  elements  of  gas  exchange  are  simultaneously  impaired  
(  diffusing  capacity,  ventilation,  perfusion,  ventilation-perfusion  matching,  total  lung  capacity)  It 
therefore  represents  the  ‘worst  case’  likely  to  have  an  impact  on  elimination.  Furthermore, 
pharmacodynamic/clinical trial data in patients with COPD do not indicate a problem of clearance. 
Due  to  the  lack  of  data  on  secretion  in  milk,  caution  should  be  exercised  when  Sonovue  is 
administered to breast-feeding women.  
Because  SF6  is  an  inert  gas,  i.e.  chemically  unreactive,  administered  in  very  small  quantities,  the 
CPMP  considered  that  investigations  on  biotransformation  and  drug-drug  interactions  are  not 
warranted.  
Clinical Efficacy  
8 Phase II/III, 6 confirmatory and 2 supportive efficacy studies ( n >1300) were performed with the 
dosages determined during phase II pharmacodynamic studies aimed at demonstrating the efficacy of 
Sonovue  in  a  number  of  indications  originally  proposed  by  the  applicant,  all  related  to  Sonovue-
induced enhancement of the echogenicity of blood, and the consequent improvement in signal to noise 
ratio : - 
‘Cardiac’: 
i. 
Evaluation of left ventricular morphology and function (visualisation of cardiac chambers and 
endocardial border delineation) during B-mode echocardiography.  
3 controlled trials and 2 uncontrolled trials 
‘Non-Cardiac’: 
ii. 
Detection  of  blood  vessels  abnormalities  by  enhancing  the  colour  Doppler  signal  of  the  flow 
and improving quality of the flow velocity profile during Doppler examination of large vessels 
(cerebral arteries, carotid or peripheral arteries, abdominal or renal arteries, portal circulation) 
e.g the enhancement of weak signals resulting from deep vessels or slow flow. 
iii.  Assessment of vascularity of focal parenchymal lesions by enhancing the Doppler signal in the 
microvasculature ( breast, liver and pancreas, kidney, ovary, prostate).  
Some of the ‘Non-cardiac’ indications were subsequently withdrawn by the applicant, i.e. relating to 
diagnostic  imaging  of  abdominal  /  renal  arteries,  and  imaging  of  the  pancreas,  kidney,  ovary  and 
prostate. 
The  results  of  these  non-cardiac  trials  contributed  to  the  overall  safety  information,  but  the  efficacy 
results  are  not  discussed  in  any  detail  since  they  do  not  contribute  to  the  indication  as  adopted  by 
CPMP at the time of the opinion.  
9/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
I) 
B-MODE ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY, CONTROLLED TRIALS 
Evaluation of efficacy of Sonovue for echocardiography: controlled trials 
Location 
Study design 
Sonovue 
doses (ml)a 
Control                 
Agent             Dosea 
Protocol 
number  
BR1-
019A 
Nb of 
patients 
treated 
143 
(76/67)b 
USA 
11 centres 
BR1-
019B 
121 
(62/59)b 
USA 
10 centres 
0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 
4.0 
0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 
4.0 
Blinded (off-site), 
parallel-
comparative, 
crossover dose-
response 
Blinded (off-site), 
parallel-
comparative, 
crossover dose-
response 
0.08 ml/kg 
0.22 ml/kg 
0.08 ml/kg 
0.22 ml/kg 
0.08 ml/kg 
0.22 ml/kg 
0.08 ml/kg 
0.22 ml/kg 
0.22 ml/kg 
Active 
comparat
or 
0.9% 
Saline 
Active 
comparat
or 
0.9% 
Saline 
Active 
comparat
or 
BR1-013 
53 
USA 
6 centres 
Blinded (off-site), 
3-period 
crossover 
1.0, 2.0 
a  All study agent doses administered as an iv bolus injection 
b  Number of patients who received Sonovue / number of patients who received control 
Inclusion criteria :   
In all three controlled efficacy trials, patients were included if : 
• 
they were highly suspected of having cardiac disease and  
• 
they had suboptimal endocardial border delineation in the left ventricle during unenhanced 
echocardiography at rest (left ventricular border delineation score ≤ 14/24).  
Exclusion criteria :  
Age  less  than  18  years,  severe  congestive  heart  failure  (NYHA  class  IV),  unstable  angina,  severe 
arrhythmia, recent myocardial infarction, severe pulmonary hypertension, pregnancy and lactation.  
Dosages 
In studies BR1-019A and B patients received either four doses of Sonovue or two doses of  an active 
comparator  (  another  microbubble  dispersion  authorised  in  the  EU  )  and  two  equivalent  volumes  of 
saline vehicle. All doses of Sonovue were administered as bolus injection.  
A centralised off-site evaluation by two blinded readers was used to evaluate the end-points.  
The  Comparator  is  an  agent  of  the  old  generation,  but  more  recently  approved  agents  were  not 
available when the studies were conducted. 
Primary diagnostic efficacy endpoints: 
• 
Endocardial  border  delineation  score;  i.e.  change  from  baseline  in  the  total  left  ventricle 
endocardial border delineation score.    
The apical 4-chamber and 2-chamber views of the left ventricle were divided into segments by 
using  cardiac  maps.  A  total  delineation  score  (0-24)  was  obtained  by  adding  the  scores  (0  = 
inadequate,  i.e.,  border  not  visible;  +1  =  sufficient,  i.e.,  border  barely  visible;  +2  =  good,  i.e., 
border clearly visible) from the six individual segments in each of the two views. A suboptimal 
10/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
echocardiographic  image  was  arbitrarily  defined  as  a  total  border  delineation  score  not  greater 
than 14 out of 24 for the two-chamber views combined. Patients had to have at least 4 segments 
out of 12 with sufficient or good visibility (i.e., a delineation rating of +1 or +2). 
• 
• 
• 
Left  ventricular  opacification  on  a  4-point  scale,  from  non  visible  contrast  to  complete 
homogeneous and high intensity effect. 
Duration of useful contrast.  
Additionally, 
from 
echocardiographic images were compared to those obtained from radionuclide ventriculography. 
Wall  motion  abnormalities  and  overall  confidence  in  primary  diagnosis  were  also  assessed  in 
this study.  
fraction  measurements  obtained 
study  BR1-013 
ejection 
in 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were defined for study BR1-013 : 
• 
Ejection fraction measurements when compared to ejection fraction measurements obtained with 
radionuclide ventriculography. 
•  Wall motion abnormalities 
• 
Overall confidence in primary diagnosis 
Sample  size  was  calculated  based  on  the  comparison  of  the  maximum  change  from  baseline  in  the 
total  left  ventricle  endocardial  border  delineation  score  observed  with  Sonovue  as  compared  to  the 
maximum change observed with  the comparator with α=5% and β=20% using a bilateral t-test. The 
study should have the power to detect a difference of 4, assuming a standard deviation of 8. With these 
assumptions, 52 subjects per arm were necessary and 56 scheduled. This number was increased to 62 
when the protocol was changed from weight depending doses to fixed doses for patients randomised to 
Sonovue.  
Analysis of efficacy endpoints was performed on the intent-to-treat (ITT) population, i.e., all patients 
who  had received at least  one dose  of study agent and who had both baseline and at least one post-
contrast evaluation. 
Statistical  significance  was  defined  as  p<0.05  (two  tailed)  for  all  studies.  In  study  BR1-013,  within 
each  of  the  three  separate  reader  analyses  (i.e.,  on-site  reader  and  two  off-site  readers),  statistical 
significance  for  the  endocardial  border  delineation  analysis  was  defined  as  p<0.025  (two-tailed)  to 
adjust for the multiple comparisons of each dose of Sonovue versus control.  
Studies population: In study BR1-019A, conducted in the USA from September 1996 to April 1997, 
148 subject were enrolled and 143 randomised and analysed (76 in the Sonovue Group and 67 in the 
comparator group), while in study 019B, conducted in the USA from October 1996 to April 1997, 121 
were randomised (62 in the Sonovue Group and 59 in the comparator group) and 120 analysed. 
Results 
Primary endpoints 
In  each  study,  baseline  scores  for  primary  endpoints  were  similar  across  all  treatment  and  control 
groups.  In  all  three  controlled  studies,  administration  of  Sonovue  resulted  in  significantly  greater 
increases  in  left  ventricular  endocardial  border  delineation  score  and  opacification  score  relative  to 
unenhanced (baseline) images than did administration of the comparator and/or saline (p<0.001).  
In studies BR1-019 A/B, similar results were observed for the duration of useful contrast (which was 
not an endpoint in study BR1-013), with a definite dose-response relationship up to the 2 ml dose.  
No useful contrast effect was observed with the saline vehicle. 
The  mean  duration  of  useful  contrast  with  the  highest  dose  of    the  comparator  was  less  than  15 
seconds, when compared to 1.7 to 4 minutes with Sonovue. 
In studies BR1-019 A/B, for all primary endpoints and for both readers, the maximum effect observed 
with Sonovue was significantly greater than the maximum effect observed with the comparator.   
For reader A, the 2 ml dose and the 4 ml dose were having a larger effect than the best dose of the 
comparator,  whereas  for  reader  B  all  doses  were  having  a  larger  effect  than  the  best  dose  of  the 
comparator.  
11/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
In  study  BR1-013,  mean  change  from  baseline  endocardial  delineation  scores  for  Sonovue  ranged 
from  3.6  -  4.6  across  both  readers  and  doses,  when  compared  to  a  mean  0.4  -  0.7  change  for  the 
comparator.  
Changes for both Sonovue doses (1.0 and 2.0 ml) were significantly higher (p<0.001) as compared to 
control ( the comparator) for both primary endpoints (endocardial delineation score and opacification 
score). 
Secondary endpoints 
Regarding  ejection  fraction  measurements  in  study  BR1-013,  no  statistically  significant  differences 
were found between baseline and post-Sonovue assessments when compared to the reference method 
(scintigraphy). 
Ventricular wall motion assessments performed during study BR1-013 showed a significantly greater 
number of segments rated for wall motion following Sonovue administration when compared to  the 
comparator administration. 
In  all  three  pivotal  controlled  studies,  the  administration  of  Sonovue  resulted  in  non  statistically 
significant greater decrease in the percentage of patients with non diagnostic images when compared to 
the comparator administration.  
In  the  three  controlled  studies,  an  increase  from  baseline  of  4  points  in  left  ventricular  endocardial 
border delineation score, corresponding to improved visualisation of at least two additional segments, 
was  considered  clinically  significant.  Thus,  clinically  significant  increases  in  left  ventricular 
endocardial border delineation scores were observed for all off-site readers at all doses of Sonovue in 
all three pivotal studies, in the exception of reader A, study BR1-019A, 0.5 and 1.0 ml doses.  
The  differences  between  Sonovue  and  the  comparator  were  also  clinically  significant  according  to 
these criteria. 
In studies BR1-019A/B, the percentage of patients with inadequate endocardial border delineation in at 
least one segment (apical 4-chamber view) at baseline ranged from 61% to 95%. Following Sonovue 
administration,  this  percentage  decreased  dose-dependently  up  to  26-45  %  at  the  0.5  ml  dose  and  
8-26% at the 4.0 ml dose. 
Non-controlled studies 
Two  additional  multicentre  dose-response  (0.5/1.0/2.0/4.0  ml)  non-controlled  studies  (BR1-011  and 
 –012) were conducted to confirm the efficacy of Sonovue in patients undergoing echocardiography at 
rest (n = 218) or during dobutamine or arbutamine-induced stress (n = 219). 
Blinded  off-site  assessment  provided  similar  results  than  pivotal  controlled  studies  regarding  left 
ventricular border delineation score. 
Statistically  significant  Sonovue-induced  dose-related  increases  in  duration  of  useful  contrast  effect 
adjusted for shadowing were observed for both off-site readers, with durations > 4 minutes for the 2 
and 4 ml doses, both at rest and during stress. 
II)  DOPPLER IMAGING OF LARGE BLOOD VESSELS (MACROVASCULATURE) 
( cerebral arteries, extracranial carotid, peripheral arteries and portal vein. ) 
The  efficacy  of  Sonovue  in  increasing  the  accuracy  of  detection  or  exclusion  of  blood  vessel 
abnormalities  by  enhancement  of  Doppler  flow  signals  during  Doppler  ultrasound  investigation  was 
studied  in  two  large  scale  dose-response  multicentre  European  clinical  trials  (BR1-014  and  -017) 
involving 361 patients. Studies BR1-014 and BR1-017 were identical in design. 
12/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
Evaluation of efficacy of Sonovue for Doppler diagnostic assessment of macrovasculature: 
controlled trials 
Protocol 
number 
BR1-014 
Nb of 
patients. 
treated 
196 
BR1-017 
165 
Location 
Study design 
SONOVUE doses (ml)a 
Europe 
10 centres 
Europe 
13 centres 
Controlled, blinded off-
site read, 4-period 
crossover, dose response 
Controlled, blinded off-
site read, 4-period 
crossover, dose response 
0.3, 0.6, 1.2, 2.4 
0.3, 0.6, 1.2, 2.4 
total 
a  All study agent doses were administered as an iv bolus injection 
361 
Inclusion criteria 
Patients  participating  in  the  trials  were  those  referred  for  Doppler  ultrasound  investigation  to  assess 
vessel haemodynamics and presence of abnormalities, i.e., stenosis and degree of stenosis, occlusion, 
malformations,  accessory  arteries,  collaterals  etc…  of  the  abdominal,  cerebral,  extracranial  carotid, 
iliac, femoral or peripheral arteries and portal circulation.  
Exclusion criteria   
Severe chronic heart failure (NYHA class IV), unstable angina, severe arrhythmia, recent myocardial 
infarction,  pregnancy  and  lactation,  recent  organ  transplant,  ongoing  chemotherapy  or  radiation 
therapy. 
Comparator 
The study was conducted versus gold standards, i.e., angiography, RMI angiography or Computerised 
Tomography  angiography,  depending  on  the  concerned  anatomical  area:  the  following  different 
anatomical areas were analysed separately : cerebral (a), extracranial carotid or peripheral arteries (b), 
portal vein (c). 
No  approved  reference  product  exists,  and  placebo  was  not  used  because  it  was  thought  that 
unenhanced  Doppler  provided  an  equivalent  control when  assessment  is  performed  in  a  random  and 
blinded way. 
Dosages 
The doses of Sonovue were 0.3, 0.6, 1.2 and 2.4 ml. 
These doses are based on the results of pharmacodynamic studies (BR1-008 and BR1-009). 
Blinded off-site assessment (2 blinded independent readers): 
- 
- 
Separate assessments of randomised baseline and post-contrast images, and 
Assessment of paired baseline and corresponding post-contrast sets for each patients 
Primary efficacy criterion 
Initially the primary efficacy criterion was the global quality of Doppler investigation i.e. change from 
baseline in global quality score graded on a 4-point scale (very poor, poor, adequate, excellent).  
Diagnostic accuracy versus gold standards (percentage of agreement with gold standard diagnosis) was 
a secondary endpoint, except for Doppler investigations of the portal vein, where no reference method 
exists.  After  discussion  with  the  FDA,  diagnostic  accuracy  was  raised  to  a  primary  endpoint  and 
sample size calculated for accuracy by anatomical area. 
Sample sizes were calculated for global quality score by anatomical area for each study, with α = 5% 
and β = 5%, with an expected difference in quality scores of at least 1 and a standard deviation of 1.5, 
leading to a sample size of 30 patients by anatomical area. 
Analysis of efficacy endpoints was performed on the ITT population. 
13/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  changes  from  baseline 
in  global  quality  scores  were  evaluated  by  a  7-point  scale 
(-3, -2,    -1, 0, 1, 2, 3) and treated as a continuous variable. An analysis of variance appropriate for a 
cross-over  design  was  performed,  with  patient,  dose  and  injection  number  as  factors  for  the  change 
from baseline. 
Diagnostic accuracy was assessed by an independent panel of 3 experts which was asked to compare 
the diagnoses made by the off-site readers from the Doppler investigations with the diagnosis obtained 
from  a  reference  imaging  modality  on  a  4-point  scale  (full  agreement,  basic  agreement,  partial 
agreement  and  disagreement).  The  4-point  scale  was  then  reduced  to  2  (full  and  basic  versus  partial 
and disagreement) and comparison of the percentages of agreement performed using McNemar’s test 
on 2x2 tables of agreement/disagreement for pre- versus post-contrast examinations. 
Results 
Studies populations 
Number of patients evaluable for efficacy criteria broken down by 
anatomical area 
Anatomical area 
Number of patients 
included 
Number of patients 
assessed for quality 
score 
Number of patients 
assessed for 
diagnostic accuracy 
BR1-
014 
BR1-
017 
Total  BR1-
014 
BR1-
017 
Total  BR1-
014 
BR1-
017 
Total 
73 
44 
40 
39 
113 
73 
83 
42 
40 
39 
113 
61 
81 
32 
17 
27 
78 
59 
43 
38 
81 
42 
38 
80 
36 
19 
55 
Cerebral arteries 
Extracranial carotid or 
peripheral arteries 
Abdominal or renal 
arteries* 
Portal vein 
37 
48 
85 
36 
48 
84 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
197 
165 
*Original claims for an indication relating to these structures were withdrawn by the applicant. 
Cerebral arteries 
- 
- 
Technical efficacy: In the initial dossier, the global quality score was significantly improved 
after administration of  Sonovue (p≤ 0.004).  
Diagnostic accuracy: Cut-off values to assess sensitivity and specificity were determined a 
posteriori.   
14/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agreement statistics 
Off site assessment  
Gold standard  
Study 014 (n=61) 
Reader 1 
Reader 2 
Study 017 (n=17) 
Reader 1 
Reader 2 
* P< 0.05 
Baseline 
Post Sonovue  
(2.4 ml) 
8% 
25% 
12% 
12% 
67%  * 
67%  * 
41%  * 
47%  * 
- 
Diagnostic performance : 
In Study BR1-014 the sensitivity in the cerebral vessels increased from 0% pre-contrast to 15% 
at  the  2.4  ml  dose  for  Reader  1  and  from  0%  to  20%  for  Reader  2.  In  Study  BR1-017  the 
sensitivity  in  the  cerebral  vessels  was  unchanged from  33%  pre-contrast  to  33%  at  the  2.4  ml 
dose for Reader 1 and increased from 50% to 83% for Reader 2. In Study BR1-014, specificity 
increased from pre-contrast values of 14% to 86 % at 2.4 ml for Reader 1 and from 29% to 89% 
for Reader 2. In study BR1-017, specificity increased from pre-contrast values of 17% to 67 % 
at  2.4  ml  for  Reader  1  and  from  0%  to  58%  for  Reader  2.  In  both  studies,  the  positive  and 
negative  predictive  values  increased  from  pre-contrast  to  post-contrast  for  both  readers.  The 
likelihood ratio also showed an increase from pre-contrast to post-contrast in this population.  
Extracranial carotid or peripheral arteries 
Across both studies there was a statistically significant increase from baseline in global quality of 
Doppler investigation score. 
Agreement statistics 
Off site assessment  
Gold standard  
Study 014 (n=32) 
Reader 3 
Reader 4 
Study 017 (n=27) 
Reader 3 
Reader 4 
* P< 0.05 
Baseline 
Post Sonovue  
(2.4 ml) 
6% 
31% 
56% 
30% 
72%  * 
60%  * 
70% 
74%  * 
In Study BR1-014 the sensitivity in the carotid and peripheral vessels increased from 13% pre-contrast 
to  75%  at  the 2.4  ml  dose for  Reader  3 and  from  50% to  75% for Reader 4.  In Study BR1-017 the 
sensitivity in the carotid and peripheral vessels changed from 89% pre-contrast to 100% at the 2.4 ml 
dose  for  Reader  3  and  increased  from  22%  to  67%  for  Reader  4.  In  Study  BR1-014,  specificity 
increased from  pre-contrast values  of 0% to 85 % at 2.4  ml for Reader 3 and from 31% to 75% for 
Reader 4. In study BR1-017, specificity increased from pre-contrast values of 23% to 46 % at 2.4 ml 
for Reader 3 and from 8% to 85% for Reader 2. In both studies, the positive and negative predictive 
values increased from pre-contrast to post-contrast for both readers. The likelihood ratio also showed 
an increase from pre-contrast to post-contrast in this population. 
15/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Portal vein 
- Technical efficacy: Global quality was significantly improved, with a dose dependency,  after 
administration of  Sonovue in both studies.  
- Diagnostic accuracy: No standard reference exists, and diagnostic accuracy when compared to the 
reference method cannot be determined. However, clinical usefulness of SonoVue in the portal  vein 
was  claimed  and  supported  by  a  literature  review  and  a  post-hoc  analysis  of  the  existing  data 
according  to  specific  patient  pathology.  From  the  literature  data,  incomplete  Doppler  examinations 
and impaired visualisation of vessels and blood flow can lessen accuracy and lead to erroneous results 
in: 10% of patients to be evaluated for portal vein thrombosis, 32% of patients with liver cirrhosis, 7% 
of  patients  where  no  flow  is  visible  after  TIPS,  and  -  in  those  cases  investigated  for  portal  vein 
involvement by liver tumours, in which no flow is visualised. 
From the post-hoc analysis, the use of SonoVue in Doppler imaging of the portal vein increased the 
proportion  of  diagnostic  scans  in  previously  inconclusive  Doppler  investigations  of  the  portal  vein 
in:34%  cirrhotic  patients  with  suspected  portal  vein  thrombosis,  40%  patients  with  portal 
hypertension, 25 to 50% patients with portal involvement due to tumours, and in 82 to 91% patients 
for follow-up investigations of TIPS insertion. 
It  was  considered  that  a  technical  efficacy  in  terms  of  improvement  in  the  global  quality  when 
compared  to  precontrast  Doppler  examination  was  not  demonstrated  for  Doppler  imaging  of 
abdominal arteries. 
III  DOPPLER IMAGING EVALUATION OF VASCULARITY OF PARENCHYMAL 
LESIONS (MICROVASCULATURE). ( i.e. vascularity of breast lesions ; liver lesions ) 
One European, blinded off-site reading, 4-period cross over, dose-response study was conducted from 
November 1996 to January 1998 in 217 patients (BR1-018).  
This study also included investigations into focal lesions of the pancreas, kidney, ovary and prostate. 
Original claims for indications relating to diagnostic imaging in these areas were later withdrawn by 
the applicant and are not discussed in detail as they do not appear in the SPC as adopted by CPMP. 
Study methodology and endpoints 
The doses of Sonovue were 0.3, 0.6, 1.2 and 2.4 ml as for Doppler studies of macrovasculature. No 
approved active comparator existed; saline vehicle was not used as non active control because it was 
felt that unenhanced Doppler provides an equivalent control when assessed in a random and blinded 
way. 
- 
Inclusion  criteria  :  at  least  one  focal  lesion  in  the  breast,  liver,  pancreas,  kidney,  ovary  or 
prostate identified during unenhanced-B mode Doppler investigation.  
Exclusion criteria were similar to those in the large vessels Doppler studies.  
Primary endpoint : change from baseline in the global quality score of the Doppler investigation 
(4-point  scale),  as  assessed  by  2  off-site  blind  readers  with  the  same  protocol  as  for  Doppler 
studies of macrovasculature. 
Secondary  endpoint  :  diagnostic  accuracy,  as  assessed  by  an  on-site  unblinded  reading,  when 
compared to a reference diagnostic modality (cytology or histology or pathology). 
Sample size calculation : at least 30 patients by anatomic site. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
16/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
Results 
Study population :  
Table 1. 
Study BR1-018 : study population 
Anatomical 
area 
Total 
Breast 
Liver 
Pancreas 
Kidney 
ovary 
prostate 
Nb of 
patients 
included 
220 
40 
69 
2 
36 
26 
44 
Focal lesions of the breast 
Nb of patients evaluable  
for on-site analysis of  
diagnostic accuracy 
38 
24 
2 
24 
23 
37 
Nb of patients evaluable  
for off-site analysis  
of global quality 
212 
40 
68 
2 
34 
26 
42 
Technical efficacy: In the initial dossier, the global quality score was significantly  improved 
with Sonovue in breast lesions. 
• 
- 
On pre-contrast inconclusive examinations in Doppler studies of breast issue, the applicant’s response 
shows  that  the  majority  of  subjects  included  in  Doppler  studies  of  breast  experienced  a  pre-contrast 
inconclusive examination (nearly 60%). 
Furthermore the sample size calculation based on diagnostic accuracy as primary endpoint provided as 
requested  shows  that  the  evaluation  of  41  patients  was  required  in  order  to  detect  a  change  in 
agreement  from  unenhanced  to  Sonovue-enhanced  Doppler.  In  fact  38  patients  were  evaluated  for 
diagnostic accuracy which is acceptable.  
- 
Diagnostic accuracy: Cut-off values to assess sensitivity and specificity were determined a 
posteriori.   
Agreement statistics 
On site assessment  
Gold standard (n=38) 
Final |diagnosis (n=40) 
Off site assessment  
Gold standard (n=38) 
Reader 3 
Reader 4 
Final diagnosis (n=40) 
Reader 3 
Reader 4 
* P< 0.05 
|Baseline 
Post Sonovue  
(2.4 ml) 
16% 
35% 
48% 
71% 
53% 
70% 
40%  * 
63%  * 
58%  * 
68% 
65%  * 
73% 
- 
Diagnostic performance : Both sensitivity and specificity increased from pre- to post-contrast. 
This  increase  was  statistically  significant  for  specificity  (p=0.025).  Although  it  did  not  reach 
statistical  significance  (p=0.102)  for  sensitivity,  the  increase  in  sensitivity  of  0.19  was 
substantial  as  the  expected  change  from  pre-  to  post  contrast  is  reached.  The  positive  and 
negative  predictive  values  were  both  increased.  The  likelihood  ratio  also  showed  a  marked 
increase  from  pre-contrast  to  post-contrast.  In  the  Gold  standard  and  final  diagnosis  off-site 
analysis only the sensitivity increased significantly for one reader out of two.   
17/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
• 
- 
- 
- 
Focal lesions of the liver 
Technical efficacy: A technical efficacy of Sonovue in the Doppler of liver lesions was clearly 
demonstrated in the initial dossier. 
Diagnostic accuracy: The same methodology as for breast lesions was used (i.e. cut-off for 
sensitivity and specificity was determined a posteriori).  
Agreement statistics 
On site assessment  
Gold standard  (n=24) 
Final diagnosis (n=69) 
Off site assessment 
Gold standard (n=23) 
Reader 1  
Reader 2  
Final diagnosis (n=64) 
Reader 1 
Reader 2 
* P< 0.05 
Baseline 
Post Sonovue  
(2.4 ml) 
54% 
55% 
70% 
30% 
61% 
36% 
67% 
68%  * 
65% 
65%  *  
56% 
62%  *     
Diagnostic performance: Sensitivity changed very little from pre- to post-contrast, since it was 
already very high before Sonovue administration. However, specificity did increase from pre- to 
post-contrast  in both analyses gold  standard and final diagnosis.  This  increase was  statistically 
significant for the final diagnosis (p=0.0016). The positive and negative predictive values both 
increased for patients with a final diagnosis. The likelihood ratio also showed a marked increase 
from  pre-contrast  to  post-contrast  in  this  population.  In  the  Gold  standard  off-site  analysis 
specificity  and  not  sensitivity  increased  significantly  for  one  reader  out  of  two.  In  the  Final 
diagnosis off-site analysis specificity and sensitivity increased significantly for one reader out of 
two. 
Clinical Safety 
20 clinical studies have been conducted to assess the pharmacokinetic profiles, the efficacy, the safety 
and tolerability of Sonovue, arising from use in cardiac and non-cardiac studies.  
1573 subjects were enrolled, 1419 subjects received either Sonovue or Sonovue + active comparator 
or Sonovue + placebo (saline). 
The safety of Sonovue was evaluated in  
• 
• 
• 
• 
healthy volunteers (89 non patients subjects),  
in at risk populations : patients with a pulmonary fibrosis (13 patients), or with a chronic 
obstructive  pulmonary disease (12 patients),  
in patients with suspected or known heart disease (726 patients), and  
in patients who required investigation of large vessels or parenchymal focal lesions (578 
patients).  
In patients, mean age was about 60 years. There are no more details about the repartition of patients 
according to age. No study was performed in children. 
Different dose regimens of Sonovue were assessed with regard to safety and efficacy.  
4 different formulations of Sonovue were used in these studies. In the first and second formulations, 
there  was  no  palmitic  acid.  In  the  third  and  fourth  formulations,  there  was  palmitic  acid.  The  fourth 
formulation was the one proposed for the market. The studies BR1-010, BR1-011, BR1-012, BR1-013, 
18/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BR1-014,  BR1-016,  BR1-017,  BR1-018,  BR1-019  A/B,  BR1-022,  BR1-026,  BR1-036  were 
performed with the final formulation. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths :- 
Most commonly reported adverse events 
The  overall incidence of adverse events "related" to  Sonovue is 18.8  %  (267 related  adverse  events 
/1419 patients who received Sonovue). There has been no “related” serious adverse event. One serious 
adverse  event  was  considered  as  "unknown  related"  to  Sonovue  by  the  investigator  (sensory  motor 
paresis). 
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  were  :  reactions  at  the  injection  site  (pain,  heat…), 
headache, paresthesia, nausea, and sensations of warmth (vasodilatation, flushing, hot sensation). 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Over the 20 clinical studies, 10 serious adverse events were reported : 9 with Sonovue and 1 with  the 
comparator ( congestive heart failure with fever : unrelated).  
Among  the  9  serious  adverse  events  reported  in  Sonovue-administered  patients,  only  one  sensory 
motor paresis was considered as related to Sonovue by the investigator.  
The  other  SAE  were  2  chest  pains,  one  congestive  heart  failure  and  5  deaths  (1  hepatocellular 
carcinoma, two heart failures, one liver and renal failure secondary to alcoholic liver disease and one 
disseminated adenocarcinoma), but none was considered as related to Sonovue by the investigator. 
There  is  no  difference  between  Sonovue  and    the  comparator  in  terms  of  related  serious  adverse 
events. 
Discontinuations due to adverse events 
3 patients discontinued due to adverse events in 3 studies : one for mild superficial pain at the site of 
ultrasound probe, one for diarrhoea and vomiting and one for mild restlessness. 
Study BR1-005 prematurely discontinued, apparently due to technical problems. 
The incidence of adverse events in this study was high when compared to other studies: 22.2 % (8/36 
patients experienced 10 adverse events, all deemed related to Sonovue administration)  
Adverse events in healthy volunteers studies 
6 studies were conducted in 89 healthy volunteers. 43 adverse events were reported with Sonovue, of 
which 33 were considered drug-related  
In  studies  BR1-001  and  002  conducted  versus  placebo,  24  adverse  events  occurred  in  the  Sonovue 
group (n = 44) versus 13 in the placebo group (n = 12). 
No serious adverse events were reported in these studies. 
Adverse events in echocardiography studies 
720  patients  received  Sonovue    A  total  of  211  adverse  events  were  experienced  by  137  patients 
receiving  Sonovue.  121  adverse  events  experienced  by  82  patients  were  considered  to  be  related  to 
Sonovue by the investigator. 
The overall incidence of patients who experienced at least one adverse event was 19.02 % (137/720). 
The incidence of patients who experienced adverse events "related" to Sonovue, was 11.4 % (82/720). 
3  studies,  BR1-013,  BR1-019A  and  BR1-019B,  are  comparative  studies  versus    the  comparator  and 
BR1-016 was a comparative study versus placebo (saline vehicle). 
No serious adverse events related to the study agents were reported in these 3 trials  
Concerning the Phase II & III studies in particular, these may be summarised as below:- 
19/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
Adverse events during phase II and III efficacy studies in echocardiography 
Inclusion 
criteria 
Dosage 
Safety and tolerability 
N° of the 
study 
BR1-016 
Number 
of 
Subjects 
19 
Clinical Phase 
Indication 
comparator 
II 
Echocardiography 
Sonovue vs 
placebo 
Patients with 
a NYHA 
functional 
class II-IV 
congestive 
heart failure 
2 IV doses 
Sonovue (2 ml 
and 4 ml) + 2 IV 
doses placebo ( 2 
ml and 4 ml) in 
13 patients 
2 doses placebo 
in 6 patients 
BR1-006 
II 
Echodoppler 
Echocardiography 
43 
Patients with 
valvular heart 
disease 
4 doses of 
Sonovue order 
randomised 0,3-
0,6-1,2-2,4 ml 
BR1-012 
II-III 
Echocardiography 
219 
BR1-011 
II-III 
echocardiography 
218 
BR1-005 
II 
Echocardiography 
36 
Patients with 
known or 
suspected 
ischemic 
heart disease 
Patients with 
known or 
suspected 
ischemic 
heart disease 
2 identical doses 
of Sonovue per 
person : one at 
rest and the other 
after a 
pharmacological 
stress 0,5 ml in 
54 patients, 1 ml 
in 55, 2 ml in 56, 
and 4 ml in 54. 
Pharmacological 
agents : 
arbutamine or 
dobutamine 
4 doses of 
Sonovue order 
randomised 0,5-
1-2-4 ml 
Patients with 
highly 
suspected 
cardiac 
disease 
4 doses of 
Sonovue order 
randomised 0,5-
1-2-4 ml 
Total AE 
5 AE with (Sonovue + placebo) + 1 AE 
with placebo 
 related  AE 
4 AE unknown related to (Sonovue + 
placebo) (increase of creatinin, increase 
of urea, increase of uric acid, 
hypotension) 
1 AE probably related to placebo : paint 
at injection site 
Total and  related  AE 
4 AE 
1 sensation of warmth : possibly related 
1 pain at injection site : possibly related 
1 vasodilatation : doubtfully related 
1 hypersalivation : doubtfully related 
88 AE 
Total AE 
 related  AE 
34 AE (the most frequent « related » 
AE : 4 nausea, 4 injections site reaction, 
3 paresthesia, 2 asthenia, 2 headache, 2 
dizinness,2 hyperesthesia, 2 taste 
perversion). 
1 atrial fibrillation : possibly related, 
but non serious. 
54 AE 
Total AE 
 related  AE 
40 AE (the most frequent « related » 
AE : headache, nausea, injection site 
reaction) 
1 serious : 
1 chest pain : unrelated 
Total and  related  AE 
10 AE 
1 reaction at injection site : definitely 
related 
1 pain at injection site : probably related 
1 ventricular extrasystole : probably 
related 
1 increase of bilirubin : probably related 
1 hyperuricemia : probably related 
1 ventricular extrasystole : possibly 
related 
1 increase of bilirubin : possibly related 
1 hyperuricemia : possibly related 
1 exanthema : doubtfully related 
1 hyperglycaemia : doubtfully related 
20/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
N° of the 
study 
BR1-013 
Number 
of 
Subjects 
53 
Clinical Phase 
Indication 
comparator 
II-III 
Echocardiography 
Sonovue vs the 
comparator 
Inclusion 
criteria 
Patients with 
highly 
suspected 
cardiac 
disease 
BR1-
019A 
II-III 
Echocardiography 
Sonovue vs  the 
comparator 
143 
(76 
Sonovue) 
(67 
control) 
Patients with 
highly 
suspected 
cardiac 
disease 
BR1-
019B 
121 
II-III 
Echocardiography 
Sonovue vs  the 
comparator 
Patients with 
highly 
suspected 
cardiac 
disease 
Dosage 
Safety and tolerability 
2 doses of 
Sonovue : 2 ml 
and 1 ml and 1 
dose of  the 
comparator : 0,22 
ml/kg order 
randomised 
4 doses of 
Sonovue in 
randomised 
order : 0,5-1-2-4 
ml 
OR 2 doses of    
the  comparator 
in randomised 
order : 0,08 or 
0,22 ml/kg + 2 
doses of saline 
4 doses of 
Sonovue in 
randomised 
order : 0,5-1-2-4 
ml 
OR 2 doses of    
the comparator in 
randomised 
order : 0,08 or 
0,22 ml/kg + 2 
doses of saline 
Total AE 
5 AE 
« related » AE 
2 AE : probably related to Sonovue +  
the comparator 
1 nausea and 1 taste perversion 
1 serious :  
1 congestive heart failure : unrelated to 
Sonovue +    the comparator 
Total AE 
66 AE : 34 AE with the comparator 
/saline 
« related » AE 
20 AE related Sonovue (the most 
frequent related AE : paresthesia, taste 
perversion) 
17 AE related to  the comparator /saline 
(the most frequent related AE : 
injection site reaction, vasodilatation) 
2 serious : 
1 chest pain : unrelated to Sonovue 
1 congestive heart failure with fever : 
unrelated to the comparator 
Total AE 
29 AE : 11 AE with Sonovue and 18 
AE with  the comparator /saline 
 related  AE 
7 AE related to Sonovue (headache, 
injection site reaction, pain, nausea, 
hyperglycaemia, and respiratory 
disorders) 
11 AE related to  the comparator (3 
injection site reaction, 2 headache, 
paresthesia, dry mouth, partial 
transitory deafness, taste perversion) 
The results of the comparative studies BR1-013 and BR1-016 did not allow for the separation between 
Sonovue-related,    the  comparator  -related  and  placebo-related  adverse  events  (the  number  of 
administered injections was not the same in the Sonovue and the control group). Similarly, BR1-012 
study assessing  efficacy of Sonovue in echocardiography  examination during  pharmacological stress 
agent did not allow for the separation between Sonovue-related or pharmacological stress agent-related 
adverse events.  
Based on the results of pivotal BR1-019A/B studies, Sonovue appeared to be as safe as the 
comparator. 
Adverse events in Doppler studies 
- 
3 studies (BR1-014, -017 and –018) enabled to enrol 578 patients to assess Sonovue efficacy for 
Doppler examination of macro or microvasculature. 
All 578 patients received Sonovue. 
A total of 153 adverse events were experienced by 90 patients : 
21/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
Adverse events during phase II and III efficacy studies in Doppler investigations : 
N° of the 
study 
BR1-014 
Clinical Phase 
Indication 
Number of 
Subjects 
II-III 
Doppler 
196 
Demographic 
design 
Patients who 
required 
Doppler 
investigation of 
large vessels 
Dosage 
4 doses of 
Sonovue order 
randomised 0,3-
0,6-1,2-2,4 ml 
BR1-017 
II-III 
Doppler 
165 
Patients who 
required 
Doppler 
investigation of 
large vessels 
4 doses of 
Sonovue order 
randomised 0,3-
0,6-1,2-2,4 ml 
BR1-018 
II-III 
Doppler 
217 
Patients who 
required 
Doppler 
investigation of 
parenchymal 
focal lesions 
4 doses of 
Sonovue order 
randomised 0,3-
0,6-1,2-2,4 ml 
and patients 
investigated for 
ovary 
and prostate were 
given 2 of 4 doses 
Dosage 
Total AE 
74 AE 
 related  AE 
53 AE (the most frequent 
« related » AE : injection site 
reaction, injection site pain, 
paresthesia) 
2 serious AE : 
1 death : hepatocellular 
carcinoma : unrelated 
1 sensory motor paresis : unknown 
related 
41 AE 
Total AE 
 related AE 
27 AE (the most frequent 
« related » AE : hypertension, 
vasodilatation, injection site 
reaction, injection site pain) 
2 serious AE : 
1 death : heart failure : unrelated 
1 death : hepatic and renal failures 
secondary to alcoholic liver 
disease : unrelated 
38 AE 
Total AE 
 related AE 
21 AE (the most frequent 
« related » AE : nausea, 
vasodilatation, injection site 
reaction) 
2 serious AE : 
1 death : heart failure : unrelated 
1 death : disseminated 
adenocarcinoma : unrelated 
105  AE  experimented  by  57  patients  were  deemed  related  to  Sonovue  by  the  investigator. 
The  overall  incidence  of  patients  who  have  experienced  at  least  one  adverse  event  was  15.6  % 
(90/578).  The  incidence  of  patients  who  have  experienced  an  adverse  events  deemed  related  to 
Sonovue by the investigator was 9.9 % (57/578). 
In addition,  
Study BR1-036 was a PK study conducted in 13 at risk patients with pulmonary fibrosis.   
3 adverse events were reported (1 chest pain and 1 pharyngitis were reported related).  
- 
Study BR1-022 was a pharmacodynamic study conducted in 12 at risk patients with moderate to 
severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Each patient received one dose Sonovue and one 
dose placebo. 
9 patients experienced 20 adverse events. 
22/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
Adverse events of special interest 
ECG changes 
Most  patients  having  had  ECG  changes  as  adverse  events  exhibited  ECG  changes  or  abnormalities 
before echocardiography. Moreover, those patients had antecedents of myocardial infarction or had a 
coronary  disease,  or  a  heart  failure.  So,  it  is  difficult  to  determine  if  the  ECG  changes  observed  are 
really related to Sonovue or to the pathology of the patients  
Changes in arterial blood pressure :  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
5. 
• 
in  study  BR1-019A,  the  percentages  of  patients  with  an  increase  of  at  least  2  mm  in  systolic 
blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were higher in patients of the Sonovue 
group when  compared  to    the  comparator group (10.5% versus  6% for SBP and  22.4%  versus 
11% for DBP). 6 patients of the Sonovue group experienced such disturbances in blood pressure, 
1/6 after the first injection and after each following injection, 4/6 after the third injection and the 
sixth after the fourth injection. 
in study BR1-019B, the percentages of patients with an increase of at least 2 mm in DBP were 
higher in patients of the Sonovue group when compared to  the comparator group (10% versus 
3.4%).  3  patients  of  the  Sonovue  group  are  concerned,  and  experienced  blood  pressure 
disturbances following the fourth injection. 
In study BR1-013, no comparison can be established between blood pressure changes related to 
Sonovue or to the placebo, due to the design of the study. 
In study BR1-006, the investigator compared BP changes after one injection of placebo and after 
one injection of Sonovue in order to assess a possible effect of Sonovue on blood pressure. No 
relevant difference was observed. 
In  study  BR1-016,  in  the  group  who  received  Sonovue  +  placebo  (N=13),  1  patient  had  an 
increase  of  the  systolic  blood  pressure  and  2  patients  had  an  increase  of  the  diastolic  blood 
pressure. In the placebo group (N=6), 1 patient had an increase of the systolic blood pressure and 
1 patient had an increase of the diastolic blood pressure.  
Overall Conclusion and benefit risk assessment  
Quality 
Pharmaceutical development has focussed on the presentation of a product giving consistently uniform 
microbubble  size  distribution  characteristics  following  reconstitution.  In  turn  this  should  allow 
consistent  and  uniform  echogenic  properties  from  batch  to  batch  without  a  danger  of  large  bubbles 
which  may  in  theory  cause  an  embolism.  The  product  is  manufactured  under  satisfactory  GMP 
conditions, and physicochemical aspects are considered to be satisfactory for a product of this type. 
• 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
A complete set of toxicological studies has been performed according to GLP. 
The  absence  of  toxicokinetic  data  and  carcinogenicity  studies  is  considered  acceptable  in  this 
particular  case.  Sonovue  is  not  teratogenic  nor  embryotoxic,  nor  does  it  appear  to  be  mutagenic.  In 
general, administration of Sonovue showed a low toxicity potential. It should be noted that although 
the  toxicological  profile  was  assessed  only  with  a  former  formulation  devoid  of  palmitic  acid.  (with 
the  exception  of  reproduction  studies),  it  can  be  assumed  that  palmitic  acid  would  not  have  any 
significant effect on the toxicological profile of Sonovue. 
• 
1. 
Efficacy 
Echocardiography: 
The  technical  efficacy  of  Sonovue  in  echocardiography  is  demonstrated  insofar  as  Sonovue 
administration enabled the visualisation of significantly more left endocardial border delineation than    
23/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
the comparator, with a significantly higher contrast duration. So, clinical usefulness has been indirectly 
demonstrated by a  significantly reduction in the number of patients with inadequate delineation in at 
least one segment. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Concerning the reliability of these results, the use of independent readers allows assessment of 
inter-observer variability and calculation of Kappa coefficient. Reported analyses show that the 
inter off-site readers difference is moderate (slightly better with Sonovue than without Sonovue). 
This discrepancy between readers is more related to subjectivity in the image interpretation than 
to the compound. 
Since no gold standard is currently easily available, diagnostic performance (yield of correct and 
incorrect diagnoses based on information provided by Sonovue) and efficacy variables such as 
sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios and predictive values cannot be determined.  
The CPMP accepted that the characteristics of the patients who participated in the three pivotal 
studies  in  support  of  the  echocardiographic  application  of  SonoVue  are  typical  of  those 
presenting  with  functional  cardiac  disease.  It  may  be  concluded  that  the  study  results  are 
representative of the usual abnormalities  and the full range of  disease severity that are  usually 
present in the population in which SonoVue is intended to be used, and the results indicate the 
clinical usefulness of SonoVue. 
In  particular,  concerning  this  patient  population  for  which  there  is  a  clinical  usefulness  of  the 
product  in  echocardiography,  it  is  that  population  in  which  a  first  echocardiography  without 
contrast agent was inconclusive with regards to diagnostic or prognostic issues 
and  which  retrieves  a  benefit  from  having  a  longer  left  ventricular  endocardial  border  delineation 
visualised.  Improvement  in  image  quality  and  longer  duration  of  useful  contrast  obtained  with 
Sonovue-enhanced echocardiography increases the level of delineation of the endocardial border and 
of visualisation of cardiac chambers.    
Hence, the target population who retrieves a benefit from administration is the population of patients 
with  known  or  suspected  segmentary  kinetic  abnormalities,  i.e.  patients  with  myocardial  ischaemia 
(coronary heart disease including history of myocardial infarction and some cardiopathies). 
- 
- 
- 
Other patient populations do not retrieve a demonstrated benefit from Sonovue administration, 
and the benefit to risk ratio is therefore unfavourable in these cases. 
Dosage: The doses recommended in the SPC are considered to be justified. A second injection 
may be given when deemed necessary by the physician. 
During  pharmacological  stress,  a  situation  in  which  patients  will  be  become  less  echogenic  a 
potential benefit of Sonovue could be expected.  
2.  Macrovasculature 
The  submitted  studies  demonstrated  that  Sonovue  enhanced  Doppler  signals  in  general.  However, 
there is no benefit (clinical usefulness) in patients with pre-contrast conclusive Doppler images. The 
main question has been whether Sonovue could enhance Doppler signals up to clinically useful levels 
in patients with pre-contrast inconclusive Doppler examination.  
Cerebral Arteries, extracranial Carotid or Peripheral Arteries 
The  quality  of  the  precontrast  examination  was  often  suboptimal  which  is  expressed  by  the  high 
number of of  inconclusive  examinations. This number is reduced after administration of Sonovue, to 
a  clinically  significant  degree.  Diagnostic  accuracy  shows  an  important  increase  in  total  agreement 
with  gold  standard  after  Sonovue  administration.  A  gain  in  the  majority  of  diagnostic  performance 
characteristics was demonstrated.  
Portal Vein 
Also  in  this  area  the  quality  of  the  precontrast  examination  was  often  suboptimal,  which  has  been 
supported  by  literature  data  submitted  by  the  applicant  in  the  responses  to  the  consolidated  list  of 
questions. The assessment of diagnostic accuracy was not possible because Doppler evaluation itself is 
24/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
the gold standard.  However, administration of Sonovue showed also for this indication a significant 
improvement in the number of evaluable evaluations. 
3.   Microvasculature 
In  an  on-site  assessment,  the  quality  of  Doppler  imaging  and  the  median  duration  of  clinical  useful 
contrast  enhancement  of  the  microvasculature  (breast  and  liver  lesions)  were  improved  after 
administration of Sonovue compared with the pre-injection images. An increase in the percentage of 
patients with a possible diagnosis was observed.  
However,  the  CPMP  had  some  concerns  over  on-site  evaluation,  and  requested  an  off-site  blinded 
assessment of the clinical data. (See Benefit/Risk section of this report, below). 
• 
Safety 
The  safety  assessment  of  Sonovue  has  been  hampered  by  the  fact  that  no  study  was  conducted  in  a 
double-blind manner, which makes a definitive conclusion difficult. No study has been conducted in 
children,  nor  in  pregnant  women.  However,  based  on  submitted  data,  Sonovue  administration 
appeared to be safe, even in patient populations  potentially at risk. Sonovue appears to be generally 
well  tolerated  at  the  recommended  dosage.  Based  on  the  submitted  studies,  it  seems  difficult  to 
conclude  that  Sonovue  caused  changes  in  ECG  or  blood  pressure.  However,  no  definite  conclusion 
can be drawn, and ECG and blood pressure should be carefully monitored during a Sonovue enhanced 
echocardiography  with  a  pharmacological  stress    (e.g.  with  dobutamine).  A  maximum  of  two 
consecutive injections is also recommended in the SPC.  
Benefit/Risk Assessment 
Concerning  the  indication  relating  to  echocardiography,  and  considering  the  results  summarised 
above, the CPMP considered that the benefit/risk balance was acceptable and the data presented could 
support an indication in line with the other ultrasound contrast agents evaluated by CPMP through the 
centralised procedure, except for wall motion investigations.  
Following  the  evaluation  of  the  macrovasculature  and  microvasculature  studies  by  CPMP,  a  list  of 
unresolved  issues  was  defined  and  sent  to  the  applicant  ,  with  a  request  to  discuss  them  at  an  oral 
explanation in order to clarify the benefit/ risk balance for this product, in these indications, i.e:- 
“... 
Doppler imaging of microvasculature 
• 
• 
The applicant should discuss the claimed increase in accuracy in terms of diagnostic test criteria. 
For  portal  vein  studies  only,  the  applicant  should  provide  a  justification  for  the  clinical 
usefulness of SonoVue in a defined patient population. 
Doppler imaging of breast and liver lesions : 
• 
• 
The results of an off-site blinded assessment should be presented. 
Statistical analysis of diagnostic accuracy should be provided as a function of dose administered 
as it was done for cerebral arteries and extracranial or peripheral arteries. The relation of a 2.4 ml 
dose with the efficacy should be clearly established...” 
These  issues  were  addressed  by  the  applicant.  Diagnostic  accuracy  regarding  macrovasculature  has 
been subsequently accepted by the CPMP but for the microvasculature the presented information was 
not sufficient to establish diagnostic accuracy and performance but only improved quality of imaging 
leading to more specific lesion characterization, and this is reflected in the wording of the indication in 
the SPC. 
Concerning safety, SonoVue administration appears to be safe, even in patient populations  potentially 
at risk - however it should be noted that that the numbers of high-risk patient subgroups are relatively 
25/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
small.  No  significant  differences  were  observed  between  Sonovue  and  the  authorised  comparator 
product, but also in this case the numbers are small.   
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of SonoVue was favourable in the following diagnostic indication : 
“SonoVue is for use with ultrasound imaging to enhance the echogenicity of the blood, which results 
in  an  improved  signal  to  noise  ratio.  SonoVue  should  only  be  used  in  patients  where  study  without 
contrast enhancement is inconclusive. 
Echocardiography 
SonoVue is a transpulmonary echocardiographic contrast agent for use in  patients with suspected or 
established  cardiovascular  disease  to  provide  opacification  of  cardiac  chambers  and  enhance  left 
ventricular endocardial border delineation. 
Doppler of macrovasculature 
SonoVue  increases  the  accuracy  in  detection  or  exclusion  of  abnormalities  in  cerebral  arteries  and 
extracranial carotid or peripheral arteries by improving the Doppler signal to noise ratio. 
SonoVue increases the quality of the Doppler flow image and the duration of clinically-useful signal 
enhancement in portal vein assessment. 
Doppler of microvasculature 
SonoVue improves display of the vascularity of liver and breast lesions during Doppler sonography, 
leading to more specific lesion characterisation.” 
and therefore the CPMP recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Post-Marketing 
6. 
A number of changes have been implemented in section 4.8 of the SPC following the assessment of 
the 1st and 2nd Periodic Safety Update Reports. Following reports of severe hypersensitivity reactions, 
the following text has been added to section 4.8 of the SPC: “In post marketing surveillance, rare cases 
suggestive  of  hypersensitivity,  including  anaphylactic  shock,  have  been  reported.”  Further  to  an  in-
depth  review  of  the  clinical  trial  data,  the  following  adverse  events  have  been  deleted  as  they  are 
considered  unrelated  to  Sonovue:  “peripheral  oedema”,  “nervousness”,  “personality  disorder”,  “dry 
mouth”, “respiratory disorder” and “ecchymosis”. The description of some terms already included in 
section 4.8 has been change: “sinusitis” to “sinus pain”, "abnormal vision" to "blurred vision", “non-
specific  pain” to “pain NOS” and “altered sensation at the injection site”  to  "injection site reactions 
including  bruising,  heat  and  paraesthesia  at  the  injection  site".  The  frequency  of  taste  perversion, 
paresthesia and flushing (changed to vasodilation) has been updated to “uncommon”. Finally, several 
adverse  events  from  clinical  trials  listed  in  section  4.8  have  been  re-coded  according  to  MedDRA 
terms.  
6.1  Reintroduction of the echocardiography indication and addition of contraindications and 
warnings following the Urgent safety Restriction of May 2004 
6.1.1 Introduction 
On 4 May 2004 the MAH informed the Rapporteur and the EMEA that the FDA had placed ongoing 
studies  of  SonoVue  in  liver  imaging  and  myocardial  perfusion  imaging  on  clinical  hold  based  on 
safety  data  arising  from  spontaneous  reporting  in  Europe.  Three  reported  deaths  were  of  particular 
concern, as all 3 patients died within minutes/a few hours of SonoVue administration. Furthermore, it 
was noted that post marketing data showed serious cardiac events occurring within seconds to minutes 
after SonoVue administration in cardiac patients.  
26/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
As  a  result  of  these  findings,  an  Urgent  Safety  Restriction  (USR)  was  triggered  on  17  May.  The 
following changes in the SPC were implemented as a result of the USR: 
Suppresion of the echocardiography indication (section 4.1) 
- 
Addition  of  a  contra-indication  in  patients  with  known  coronary  artery  disease,  myocardial 
- 
infarction (MI), unstable angina, acute cardiac failure, class III/IV cardiac failure, severe rhythm 
disorders, acute endocarditis and prosthetic valves; (section 4.3) 
Recommendations  to  closely  monitor  patients  during  and  for  at  least  30  min  following  the 
administration  of SonoVue  and to have  emergency equipment  and  personnel readily available 
(section 4.4) 
Update of the “Undesirable effects” reported in post-marketing (section 4.8) 
- 
- 
This variation follows the above-mentioned  USR procedure. The MAH proposes to reverse some of 
the changes implemented during the USR, namely to remove the suspension of the echocardiographic 
indication, and to change some of the contra-indications.  
6.1.2  Clinical aspects 
The  assessment  of  this  variation  has  majored  on  the  safety  data  presented  by  the  MAH  and  on  the 
clinical  benefits  of  SonoVue  in  the  suppressed  indication  in  echocardiography,  in  order  to  reach  an 
overall conclusion of the benefit: risk for the product. 
6.1.2.1 Safety  
Post-marketing data 
The 3 fatal cases 
The following 3 cases with a fatal outcome have been reported.  
Case BRO-005943 (described in the 4th PSUR) was reported in Germany in a 69-year-old male patient 
admitted to hospital for coronary angiography performed 1 day prior to the contrast echocardiography 
examination.  The  patient’s  cardiovascular  history  included  anterior  and  posterior  myocardial 
infarctions  (MI),  and  percutaneous 
transluminal  coronary  angioplasty  (PTCA)  and  stent-
implementation to the left anterior descending (LAD) artery and the diagonal branch (approximately 6 
months  prior  to  SonoVue  exposure).  One  day  before  contrast  echocardiography  examination  the 
patient was premedicated with antihistamines (8 mg dimetindenmaleate, 100  mg ranitidine) and 250 
mg  methylprednisolone  due  to  known  hypersensitivity  to  iodinated  contrast  agents.  A  3-vessel 
coronary  artery  disease  (CAD)  was  documented  with  a  previously  known  occlusion  of  the  right 
coronary artery, moderate stenosis in the circumflex artery and a high degree re-stenosis in the distal 
area of the LAD-stent, which was successfully treated by PTCA on the same day.  
The following day the second contrast echocardiography was performed. The patient had received no 
further  prophylactic  treatment.  Prior  to  Sonovue  injection  the  patient  was  well  (no  angina,  no 
dyspnoea), except for an unusual restlessness. The patient’s heart rate was around 90 beats per minute 
(bpm) and his blood pressure (BP) was not measured. Following an initial dose of 2.0 ml SonoVue the 
patient experienced no ADR. A second 2.0 ml SonoVue injection was administered about 2 minutes 
later.  Contrast  echocardiography  showed  that  the  global  left  ventricular  systolic  function  was 
reportedly  normal  with  slight  concentric  hypertrophy  and  regional  akinesia  (apical,  inferoseptal  and 
inferior).  Approximately  4-5  minutes  after  the  second  injection,  the  patient’s  restlessness  increased 
and his heart rate (50 bpm) and BP decreased, which were accompanied by paleness and cold sweat. 
The patient was immediately treated with 250 mg methylprednisolone, 8 mg dimetindenmaleate, 100 
mg ranitidine, and 1 mg atropine because of suspected anaphylactic shock, but no improvement was 
observed.  Within  minutes,  the  patient  lost  consciousness  and  no  pulse  was  palpable.  Following 
repeated  administrations  of  adrenaline,  sodium  bicarbonate  and  atropine,  the  patient  developed 
ventricular fibrillation and was defibrillated several times. An emergency coronary angiography was 
then  performed under  mechanical reanimation which showed a re-occlusion of the LAD-stent in the 
previously dilated area, which was successfully re-treated by PTCA.  
27/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following the intervention the patient’s systolic BP was reported as 100 mmHg, and further treatment 
in  the  intensive  care  unit  (ICU)  included  mechanical  ventilation  and  mechanical  circulatory  support 
with  an  intra-aortic  balloon  pump.  Later  on  the  same  day,  the  patient  developed  bradycardia  and  a 
ventricular escape rhythm. Despite treatment with high doses of adrenaline, the situation could not be 
stabilised and the patient died of cardiogenic shock approximately 4 hours after the administration of 
SonoVue. It should be noted that elevations of serum creatine kinase (25.48 micromol/L or 1500 U/L), 
LDH (42.98 micromol/L or approx 3000 U/L) and troponin levels (7.05 Iu/L) were observed 2.5 hours 
after the echocardiographic examination. The autopsy confirmed the presence of MI and did not show 
any signs of an allergic reaction. 
The MAH considers that the patient was clinically unstable at the moment of receiving SonoVue on 
the basis of : 
-the  clinical  description  before  SonoVue  administration  i.e  restlessness,  which  is  consistent  with  an 
ongoing  myocardial infarction,  and the  patient’s heart rate  of  90  bpm  despite  betablocker treatment, 
indicating an ongoing cardiovascular problem; 
-the pre-contrast echographic findings of total antero-septal akinesia, which is indicative of ischaemia 
in the territory of the LAD coronary artery and consistent with the angiographic finding of complete 
occlusion of the LAD stent which had been reopened the day before; 
-the slow reduction of BP and heart rate consistent with an ongoing acute MI; 
-the results of laboratory data which showed a marked increase on CK, troponin and LDH 2.5 hours 
post SonoVue administration with values consistent with an acute coronary event occurring 6-8 hours 
before the echographic examination. 
-a  low  serum  potassium  level  (3.4  mmol/l)  which  constitutes  a  potential  increased  risk  of  cardiac 
arrhythmias 
-an angiographically documented occlusion of a stent in the LAD artery in a patient with a severe 3-
vessel CAD. 
Case  BCM-000767  reported  from  Italy  describes  a  serious  AE  in  a  51-year-old  male  patient  with 
history  of  recent  anterior  MI  (November  2003)  and  PTCA  of  the  LAD  artery  during  which  he  was 
reported to have a 40% stenosis of the left main coronary artery, moderate left ventricular dysfunction 
(ejection  fraction  41%)  with  akinesia  in  the  anterior  apex.  The  patient  had  previously  received 
SonoVue without any adverse events. 
On 16 December 2003, 5 ml of SonoVue was administered during an echocardiographic examination 
with  high  mechanical  index  (MI=1.3)  ultrasound  imaging.  Approximately  2  minutes  after  SonoVue 
administration,  the  patient  complained  of  throat  burning  and  back  pain  and  this  was  followed  by 
cardiac  arrest  (asystole).  Cardiopulmonary  reanimation  measures,  including  administration  of 
adrenaline, cortisone and fibrinolytic agents, failed and the patient died. No signs of an anaphylactic 
reaction  were  observed  on  autopsy.  Cardiac  examination  showed  diffuse  lesions  of  the  coronary 
arteries and a severe (95%) stenosis of the left main coronary artery. The histopathology investigation 
of that vessel showed that the 95% stenosis was caused by an eccentric fibrohyaline plaque. No plaque 
rupture nor embolic phenomena were described and only low periadvential inflammatory activity was 
present with maintenance of the media.  
According to the MAH, the cause of death was the underlying 95% stenosis of the main stem of the 
LAD  found  upon  autopsy.  After  reviewing  all  the  data  available  on  this  case,  it  was  noted  in  the 
videoclips from the echographic examination of the day of the event that there was ECG evidence of a 
newly  developed  bundle  branch  block  suggestive  of  electrophysiological  instability.  Therefore  the 
MAH considers that the patient was already in an unstable condition before receiving SonoVue. The 
discrepancy between the preceding coronary angiography result (approx. 1 month before the event) of 
only  a  40%  luminal  narrowing  within  the  same  vessel  compared  with  the  autopsy  finding  of  a  95% 
stenosis  could  be  explained  by  a  fast  progression  of  the  LM  plaque  possibly  due  to  plaque  injury 
caused  by  the  guiding  catheter  during  the  previous  PTCA  which  accompanied  the  rapid  ECG 
deterioration (development of bundle branch block). In these conditions, the spontaneous risk of death 
is very high and not readily quantifiable - no systemic reviews are available in the literature as patients 
with high grade main stem stenosis are candidates for immediate revascularisation.  
28/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
Case  BRO-006772  reported  from  Germany  describes  a  SAE  in  a  49-year-old  male  patient  with  a 
severe 3-vessel CAD, multiple MIs and a severely impaired left ventricular function (ejection fraction 
31%) who experienced an acute anterior MI on 11 January 2003 and underwent coronary angiography. 
Multiple PTCA (3) and stent-implantation (1) were performed on multiple total (100%) and sub-total 
(99%)  occlusions  in  the  LAD  artery  and  its  branches.  Additionally,  severe  coronary  artery  stenoses 
were described  within the right coronary  artery (90%)  and left circumflex artery (80%). The  patient 
was treated with clopidogrel, metoprolol, ramipril, hydrochlorothiazide, and simvastatin.  
The  patient  was  asymptomatic  (denying  angina  or  dyspnoea)  and  haemodynamically  stable  when 
admitted  to  hospital  in  February  2003.  He  underwent  an  echocardiographic  examination  on  17 
February,  during  which  1  ml  of  SonoVue  was  administered  for  improvement  of  endocardial  border 
definition.  No  stressor  agents  were  used.  During  and  after  SonoVue  injection,  the  patient  remained 
asymptomatic  (normal  BP,  heart  rate  and  oxygen  saturation).  Upon  attempting  to  get  up  from  the 
examination  table  at  the  end  of  the  examination,  he  lost  conciousness.  Pulse  and  BP  were  not 
measurable. Immediate resuscitation including electric defibrillation was performed for approximately 
40  minutes  but  was  unsuccessful.  An  ECG  was  not  available  at  the  onset  of  the  event.  During  the 
event  and  resuscitation,  asystole  was  recorded  on  the  ECG,  followed  by  pulseless  electrical  activity 
and ventricular fibrillation. No autopsy was performed. 
The MAH considers that there is insufficient information available to clarify the aetiology of the event 
and  thus  exclude  a  possible  role  of  SonoVue,  but  concludes  that  the  patient  was  in  an  unstable 
condition and at risk of a sudden coronary event since : 
-he had severe coronary lesions still present in the left circumflex and right coronary arteries; 
-he had a severely impaired left ventricular function 
-he was readmitted to hospital 
-he had a high heart rate (92 bpm) before SonoVue administration despite betablocker treatment; 
-he  experienced  hypoxemia  (SaO2  =  92%)  and  required  oxygen  saturation  monitoring  during 
echocardiography,  which  is  usually  not  performed  during  normal  routine  echocardiographic 
examination. 
On the basis of the available data, the CHMP considers that a number of conclusions on the 3 fatalities 
can be drawn from the data provided by the MAH: 
i)  All  3  patients  had  advanced  CAD  with  at  least  1  of  the  following  features:  left  main  coronary 
stenosis, three vessel-disease, past history of myocardial infarction, PCI, left ventricular akinesia and 
low EF. They obviously represent a high risk group for acute coronary events and sudden death.  
ii) An evolving coronary ischaemia at the time of Sonovue administration may confound the clinical 
interpretation of the clinical outcome. In case BRO 005943, an early stent occlusion is considered by 
the  MAH  as  the  cause  of  the  cardiac  arrest  5  minutes  after  Sonovue  administration.  However,  the 
reverse  hypothesis  can  also  be  discussed,  i.e.  the  stent  occlusion  being  the  consequence  of  the 
circulatory  arrest.  The  MAH’s  arguments  to  demonstrate  an  evolving  myocardial  infarction  prior  to 
the contrast echocardiograpy are questionable since:  
• 
A significant rise in serum troponin and CK levels was found 2.5 hours after the contrast echo 
procedure.  According  to  the  MAH,  this  enzymatic  rise  reflected  an  evolving  asymptomatic 
myocardial infarction 6-8 hours prior to Sonovue administration. However, the range of times to 
initial  elevation  of  molecular  markers  of  cardiac  or  muscle  damage  is  1-6  hours  (Braunwald, 
Text  Book  of  Cardiovascular  Medicine,  2001).  In  addition,  cardiopulmonary  resuscitation 
(CPR)  and  defibrillation  are  known  to  increase  cardiac/muscle  markers,  and  this  patient  had 
several  defibrillation  attempts.  Therefore,  the  elevation  of  molecular  markers  at  the  2.5  hour 
time point is more likely related to the CPR and defibrillation.  
It is good clinical practice to perform ECG recordings after a PCI procedure and the following 
day prior to hospital discharge. There is no information on the ECG recordings of this patient, 
who  should  have  had  at  least  one  ECG  prior  to  the  contrast  echo.  An  evolving  early  stent 
occlusion,  even  clinically  asymptomatic,  would  have  induced  ECG  abnormalities.  This 
information  is  critical  to  document  the  evolving  myocardial  ischaemia.  Potentially  useful 
• 
29/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
• 
information on the PCI procedure i.e. success of deployment and post-stent angiographic image 
is not available. 
There  is  a  discrepancy  between  the  first  narrative  of  this  case  and  the  additional  information 
provided by the MAH with regard to the echo findings. A normal left ventricular function with 
regional akinesia (apical, anteroseptal and inferior) was found in the first echo and mentioned in 
the first narrative. In the additional information, a total anteroseptal akinesia is stated. This point 
remains unclear.  
In case BCM 000767, the evolving myocardial ischaemia is documented by a newly developed bundle 
branch block. The timing of this event is unclear. In case BRO 006772, there are no clinically relevant 
arguments  for  an  evolving  myocardial  ischaemia.  Sudden  death  occurred  immediately  after  the 
contrast echo procedure in an apparently clinically stable patient with however advanced CAD.  
iii) Besides a possible evolving coronary ischaemia, the strong temporal relationship between Sonovue 
administration and the fatal events suggests a triggering factor in this high coronary risk patient 
population. The experimental findings should be put into this context. In animal models microbubbles 
are destroyed by high energy ultrasound and cause microvessel rupture with myocardial ischaemia . 
Contrast echo with Sonovue might represent an ischaemic trigger. The level of acoustic power output 
is also a critical factor in the destruction of microbubbles. The level of ultrasound energy (MI) has not 
been provided for 2 of the deaths and for several of the other reported cardiac SAEs, nor has the echo 
technique (i.e. continuous or trigger mode). Hence, the specific role of contrast echo diagnostic 
technique in the occurrence of SAEs in the cardiac indication is still unclear. 
Other serious cases reported post-marketing 
Nineteen other serious ADRs have been reported, 18 of which were anaphylactoid or vasovagal 
reactions as defined by the reporting physician. Of these other 19 SAE, 11 correspond to patients who 
received SonoVue for the echocardiography indication. The cardiac events seen were part of 
(bradycardia (n=4), tachycardia (n=2)) or caused (myocardial ischaemia, transient ST depression or 
rise of troponin (n=3)) by the hypersensitivity reactions. Resuscitation, where needed, was always 
successful. There is no clear evidence of direct cardiac toxicity in any of the serious cases.  
Based on the exposure data provided by the MAH (157,838 patients exposed to SonoVue, 67,832 in 
the cardiac and 90,000 in the non-cardiac indications), the reporting rate of serious ADRs is higher in 
the cardiac indication (13/67,832; 1/5,200) compared to the non-cardiac indication (7/90,000; 
1/12,800). The reporting rate of cardiac events is higher in cardiac imaging (1/9,000) than in non-
cardiac imaging (1/20,000), and the reporting rate of “allergy-like reactions” is also higher in cardiac 
imaging (8/67,832; 1/8,500) than in non-cardiac imaging (5/90,000; 1/18,000). 
Safety data from clinical trials (as of 31 March 2004) 
Further to a request from CHMP, the MAH has provided a comprehensive analysis of safety data from 
the  51  completed  studies  and  the  SAEs  in  the  17  ongoing  studies,  with  a  cut-off  date  of  31  March 
2004. The 51 completed studies included 3,374 subjects, of which 3,212 (122 healthy volunteers and 
3,090 patients) received SonoVue and 162 (30 healthy volunteers and 132 patients) received control 
agents. The 17 ongoing studies include a total of 1109 subjects who have received SonoVue. 
Incidence of AE within completed and ongoing studies  
The  incidence  of  total  AE  (12.8%)  and  AE  related  to  SonoVue  (7.7%),  and  the  incidence  of  SAE 
within  completed  studies  has  been  investigated  by  the  MAH.  Overall  16  SAE  were  reported  in 
completed  trials  in  a  total  of  15  patients,  of  which  15  were  considered  unrelated  (7  had  a  fatal 
outcome)  and  1  case  (“sensory  motor  paresis  of  the  right  arm”)  was  considered  to  be  of  unknown 
relationship to SonoVue. Regarding the 17 ongoing trials, 7 SAEs have been reported in 6 patients, of 
which  6  were  considered  as  unrelated  and  1  (a  cutaneous  eruption)  was  considered  to  be  probably 
30/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
related  to  SonoVue.  The  incidence  of  SAE  related  to  SonoVue  is  0.09%  and  the  incidence  of  SAE 
related or with unknown relationship in all CT (ongoing and completed) is 0.04%.  
A separate analysis of AE in completed trials according to the imaging indication has been performed 
for all SonoVue-treated and for healthy volunteers. The results of this analysis are shown in the table 
below 
Table 1 Analysis of AE in different imaging indications in completed CT 
Number 
of studies 
Number of subjects 
receiving SonoVue 
Cardiac CT 
18 
SonoVue n=1266 
Incidence of 
total AE (n° of 
patients) 
19.6% (248) 
Incidence of AE 
related to SonoVue 
(n° of patients) 
11.2% (142) 
Macrovasculature 
CT 
9 
Control n=126 
555 
26.2% (33) 
13.7% (76) 
12.7% (16) 
8.5% (47) 
Microvasculature 
CT 
Special Patients 
Population CT 
Healthy 
volunteers 
14 
3 
7 
1231 
38 
SonoVue n=122 
Control n=30 
4.7% (58) 
3.2% (40) 
0 
0 
27% (33) 
23.7% (29) 
Number of serious 
AE 
8 unrelated of 
which 1 death 
1 unrelated 
4 of which 3 death 
unrelated and 1 
paresis of right arm 
with unk 
relationship 
3 unrelated (1 
death) 
NA 
0 
0 
As shown in the table above, the highest rate of AE is in cardiac studies, followed by macrovascular 
studies and microvascular studies. The MAH considers this finding most likely reflects differences in 
the frequency of study-protocol specified safety assessments,  based upon the  fact  that  the  frequency 
and  extent of  safety assessment in Phase  II/IIIA studies is  higher  than in Phase  IIIB studies  and the 
proportion  of  patients  from  Phase  II/IIIA  studies  is  larger  in  the  cardiac  and  macrovascular  groups 
than  in  the  microvascular  group.  This  is  further  underlined  by  the  higher  incidence  of  AE  in  the 
Comparator/Control  Group  within  the  cardiac  studies,  the  fact  that  the  higher  AE-rates  affect  both 
related  and  unrelated  AE,  and  the  highest  AE-rates  were  reported  in  the  healthy  volunteer  studies 
(total  rate  of  AE  32.6%,  related  30.3%)  representing  the  studies  with  the  most  extensive  safety 
monitoring.  The  rate  of  total  AE  in  the  cardiac  indication  is  slightly  higher  than  that  reported  for 
Optison  (19.6%  and  16.8,  respectively),  although  the  incidence  is  lower  (15.6%)  when  only 
considering the studies “at rest”. 
The  most frequently reported SonoVue-related AE in cardiac studies were: headache (2.1%), nausea 
(1.3%),  chest  pain  (1.3%),  taste  perversion  (0.9%),  hyperglycaemia  (0.6%),  injection  site  reaction 
(0.6%),  paresthesia (0.6%), and vasodilation (0.6%), and injection site pain (0.5%). All other AEs had  
an incidence of less than 0.5%. The incidence of chest pain was relatively higher in the cardiac studies 
(1.3%  compared  to  0.6%  in  All  Patient  Studies).  This  can  be  expected  because  the  cardiac  studies 
include 4 studies with a total of 338 patients undergoing pharmacological stress, with the majority of 
reported chest pain occurring in these 4 studies during stress testing. 
Analysis of cardiac AE 
Cardiac  events  were  defined  as  signs  and  symptoms  suggestive  for  myocardial  ischemia  (such  as 
angina  pectoris,  retrosternal  pain,  chest  pain,  chest-pain-recurrent  episode,  burning  feeling  in  chest, 
chest  pressure,  epigastric/chest  pain,  jaw  cramp,  jaw  pain,  throat  tightness,  chest  discomfort  (no 
angina), smart behind sternum at injection, heat and discomfort in abdomen/chest) and/or bradycardia 
and/or  tachycardia.  The  total  number  of  subjects  reporting  cardiac  AE  was  44  out  of  3,212  subjects 
(1.4%;) and in the majority the AE were of mild intensity (30 out of 44 patients). Of the 44 cardiac 
events: 
31/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 were classified as SAE. Onset times ranged between 6 hours and 1 day and none were regarded as 
related to SonoVue  
- 40 were classified as non-serious events of which 30 were of mild intensity and 10 were regarded as 
of moderate intensity. Of the 14 AE regarded as of unknown or possible relationship to study agent, 10 
were classified as mild intensity and 4 events as of moderate intensity.  
-  26  patients  (59%)  experienced  cardiac  AE  (majority  chest  pain)  during  administration  of 
pharmacological stressors.  
- The rate of cardiac AE within SonoVue stress-echo studies was 7.7% (26 out of 338 patients). The 
MAH considers that this rate corresponds to the lower range of published rates of non serious cardiac 
AE  during  stress-echocardiography.  Seven  AE  (2%),  all  non-serious,  were  considered  related  to 
SonoVue and 1 AE with a causal relationship unknown.  
Table 2 summarises the 14 AE considered as of unknown or possible relationship to SonoVue 
Study 
Onset times 
Outcome 
AE 
Patient  Gender 
/age  Medical 
history 
Total  dose 
of 
SonoVue 
Relationship 
to SonoVue 
BR1-011 
M/73 y 
Card Study 
Cor.  Art.  bypass 
graft 
Mild 
disconfort 
chest 
6 hours 39 mns 
7.5 ml 
Unknown 
Unknown 
BR1-036 
F/45 y 
Spe  Patient  Pop 
Study 
unknown 
BR1-012 
F/60 y 
Card Study 
1-vessel 
(>70%) 
CAD 
Burning  feeling  in 
the 
chest  mild 
intensity 
6 hours 
18.7 ml 
Resolved 
Unknown 
« smart 
sternum » 
behind 
31 min after 1st inj  2  ml 
(2 
Resolved quickly  Possible 
injections) 
BR1-017 
F/ 60 y 
Chest pressure 
Immediately  after 
1st inj 
4.5 ml 
Resolved  Within 
few minutes 
Possible 
Non-card study 
MI 
BR1-018 
F/ 36 y 
Non-card study 
unknown 
Heat 
discomfort 
in 
abdomen/ chest 
and 
the 
42 minutes 
4.5 ml 
Resolved  after  8 
mns 
Probable 
BR1-021 
M / 60 y 
Card Study 
MI  +  Cor.  Art. 
bypass graft 
Hypotension 
+ 
sinus  bradycardia 
moderate 
48 minutes 
? 
4 infusions 
Resolved  With 
atropine 
Possible 
BR1-063 
M / 54 y 
Mild chest pain 
3 minutes 
91.8 ml 
Resolved 
Possible 
Stress-echo 
Angina 
hypertension 
+ 
Within 2 mns 
BR1-063 
M / 57 y 
Stress-echo 
Angina 
hypertension 
+ 
Mild  chest  pain 
during stress test 
BR1-063 
F / 60 y 
Stress-echo 
Angina 
hypertension 
+ 
Moderate 
pain 
chest 
92  min  after  1st 
injection and 6 min 
after  2nd  inj  during 
stress test 
87  min  after  1st  inj 
and  2  min  before 
2nd 
during 
inj 
stress test 
? 
Resolved 
Possible 
111.3 ml 
Resolved 
immediately  with 
aminophylline 
Possible 
32/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
BR1-063 
F / 59 y 
Mild chest pain 
BR1-063 
F / 60 y 
Stress-echo 
BR1-063 
Stress-echo  
Angina 
hypertension 
+ 
Stent 
implantation 
M / 73 y 
Angina 
exercice 
during 
Stress-echo  
Congestive  heart 
failure 
+ 
hypertension 
BR1-063 
F / 54 y 
Stress-echo 
Angina 
during 
exercice  +  stent 
implantation 
BR1-063 
M / 48 y 
Stress-echo 
Hypertension  + 
stent LAD, NYHA 
class I 
Moderate 
pain 
chest 
69  min  after  1st  inj 
and  6  min  before 
2nd 
during 
inj 
stress test 
119.4 ml 
Resolved  within 
min 
12 
aminophylline 
Possible 
Mild chest pain 
87  min  after  1st  inj 
and  2  min  before 
2nd 
during 
inj 
stress test 
77  min  after  1st  inj 
and  4  min  before 
2nd 
during 
inj 
stress test 
124.9 ml 
Resolved  within 
2 
mns 
spontaneously 
Possible 
97.9 ml 
Resolved  within 
3 
mns 
spontaneously 
Possible 
Moderate 
pain 
chest 
+  new  incomplete 
branch 
bundle 
block 
Vasodilatation  and 
mild tachycardia 
84.0 ml 
89  min  after  1st  inj 
and  3  min  before 
2nd 
during 
inj 
stress test 
50.36 ml 
1  hour  after  1st  inj 
and  9  min  before 
2nd 
during 
inj 
stress test 
Unknown 
Probable 
Resolved 
spontaneously 
within  13  min 
IBBB  still  noted 
at 
the  24-hour 
FU 
Resolved 
spontaneously 
within  20  min 
and 23 min 
Of the 14 cardiac “related” AE, 11 occurred in cardiac studies and 3 in non cardiac studies. Thus, the 
percentage of patients with related cardiac AE is slightly higher in cardiac imaging studies (11/1266, 
0.87%)  compared  to  non-cardiac  imaging  studies  (3/1824,  0.16%),  and  the  severity  of  the  events  is 
higher in the cardiac studies.  
A subgroup analysis was performed in Study BR1-012, where 84 out of the 219 patients enrolled with 
known or suspected ischemic heart disease had also a documented coronary angiography. Nearly half 
(41) of the patients had coronary artery stenosis ≥ 90%. SonoVue was administered at two time points 
(during  rest  and  at  peak  pharmacological  stress  -  dobutamine  or  arbutamine)  using  one  of  four 
different doses (0.5, 1.0, 2.0 or 4.0 ml) in parallel-group comparison. Contrast echocardiography was 
performed under moderate mechanical index (0.6-0.8). Five cardiac AE were reported in 5 patients: 1 
was observed in a patient with no detectable stenosis, 1 in a patient with less than 50% stenosis, 1 in a 
patient  with  >  70%  1-vessel  disease,  and  2  in  patients  with  3-vessel  disease.  The  majority  of  AE 
possibly related to ischaemia occurred during stress 7-38 minutes after the 1st injection of SonoVue. 
All but one event were considered by the investigators not to be related to study drug. All events were 
mild in intensity and resolved spontaneously without sequelae. No meaningful causal relationship was 
observed between cardiac AE and the severity or extent of CAD, the dose SonoVue or the MI setting. 
The CHMP agrees that the safety data on the use of low doses of SonoVue with low MI in patients 
with severe CAD are reassuring but quantitatively very limited (41 patients only). 
Analysis of “allergy-like” AE in CT 
Symptoms/findings considered as potentially indicative for “allergy-like” or anaphylactoid reactions 
were the following: allergic reaction, flu syndrome, flu-like symptoms, chills, fever, cough/dyspnoea, 
pruritus, rash, hypotension, paresthesia/tingling. After reviewing all the relevant AE the incidence of 
allergy-like reaction appears higher in patients in cardiac studies (1%) compared to non-cardiac 
studies (0.16%). 
33/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  acknowledges  the  comprehensive  analysis  of  the  safety  data  collected  in  clinical  trials 
with SonoVue carrried out by the MAH. The main findings of this analysis are: 
i)  an  increased  rate  of  total  and  related  AE  in  cardiac  imaging  studies  compared  to  non-cardiac 
imaging studies;  
ii)  The  higher  incidence  of  “allergy-like”  reactions  and  cardiac  ADRs  reported  in  cardiac  imaging 
patients during post-marketing surveillance is a reflection of the already observed higher risk of AE in 
cardiac  imaging  compared  to  non-cardiac  imaging  clinical  trials.  Indeed,  the  rate  of  “related”  AE 
suggestive  of  “allergy-like”  is  respectively  1%  and  0.16%,  respectively,  and  the  rate  of  “related” 
cardiac  AE  is  0.87%  and  0.16%,  respectively.  There  is  currently  no  explanation  for  this  difference, 
such as a possible difference in the dose, the speed of infusion, etc. 
iii)  a  considerably  higher  frequency  of  cardiac  AE  was  observed  during  stress-echocardiography 
(7.7% vs 1.6% in all patients). However, pharmacological stress alone has a significant rate of AE and 
published  data  report  a  rate  of  non-serious  AE  (chest  pain)  of  6-26%  with  dobutamine,  53%  with 
adenosine  and  30%  with  dipyramidole.  Therefore,  the  cardiac  AE  rate  of  7.7%  with  SonoVue  in 
studies BR1-012 using dobutamine/arbutamine and BR1-027, -041, -063 and –068 using vasodilatator 
stress is not remarkable. The cardiac AE observed in CT during stress test are mainly chest pain, and 
therefore not unexpected.  
Nonetheless,  it  is  recommended  to  reinforce  the  warnings  in  section  4.4  as  follows:  “Stress 
echocardiography,  which  can  mimic  an  ischaemic  episode,  could  potentially  increase  the  risk  of 
SonoVue utilisation”. 
iv) in the same indications i.e. cardiac imaging, the incidence of total AE is somewhat higher with 
SonoVue (19.6%) compared to that with Optison (16.8%), although it would appear that the AE 
incidences are more comparable when the at rest cardiac imaging populations are compared.  
The effect of the imaging technique 
During contrast enhanced ultrasound examination, the microbubbles interact with the scanning process 
and this interaction depends on the scanning parameters, basically the peak negative pressure and the 
scanning frequency. The relationship of these two parameters is expressed by the Mechanical Index 
(MI). Further to a request from CHMP the MAH has investigated the possible impact of the 
mechanical index (MI) and degree of microbubble destruction according to echocardiographic 
techniques, the bubble stability, the impact of shell stiffness and other elements which could have an 
impact on the safety of SonoVue used for cardiac imaging.  
Analyses by Mechanical Index 
As can be seen in the table below, the incidence of AE generally increased for both groups of studies 
as the MI settings increased from < 0.7 to ≥ 1.0. At all MI setting intervals, most AE were of mild 
intensity; no event was of severe intensity. In the Cardiac Studies population, there was an increased 
incidence of AE with increasing MI values (30.8% of patients experienced AE with MI ≥1.0 vs 13.5% 
with MI<0.7). However, the ≥ 1.0 MI group (n=13 patients) is very limited to draw any conclusion of 
a MI-related effect and the higher incidence of AE considered to be related to study drug was observed 
in the < 0.7 MI group. 
34/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
No. (%) of Patients Dosed 
No of AE 
No. (%) of Patients with AE 
No. (%) of Patients with Study Agent- 
related AEs 
No. (%) of Patients with Non-serious 
AE by Intensity 
      Mild 
      Moderate 
      Severe 
No. (%) of Patients with Serious AE 
No. (%) of Deaths 
No. (%) of Patients Dosed 
No. of AE 
No. (%) of Patients with AE 
No. (%) of Patients with Study Agent 
related AEs 
No. (%) of Patients with Non-serious 
AE by Intensityb 
      Mild 
      Moderate 
      Severe 
No. (%) of Patients with Serious AE 
No. (%) of Deaths 
< 0.7 
Mechanical Index 
0.7 to < 1.0 
ALL STUDIES WITH MI 
130 (100) 
23 
18 (13.8) 
13 (10.0) 
18 (13.8) 
17 (13.1) 
1 (0.8) 
0 
0 
0 
255 (100) 
60 
37 (14.5) 
14 (5.5) 
37 (14.5) 
32 (12.5) 
5 (2.0) 
0 
1 (0.4) 
0 
CARDIAC STUDIES WITH MI 
104 (100) 
18 
14 (13.5) 
10 (9.6) 
14 (13.5) 
13 (12.5) 
1 (1.0) 
0 
0 
0 
165 (100) 
53 
33 (20.0) 
12 (7.3) 
33 (20.0) 
28 (17.0) 
5 (3.0) 
0 
1 (0.6) 
0 
≥ 1.0 
97 (100). 
30 
18 (18.6) 
11 (11.3) 
15 (15.5) 
13 (13.4) 
2 (2.1) 
0 
3 (3.1) 
3 (3.1) 
13 (100) 
8 
4 (30.8) 
1 (7.7) 
4 (30.8) 
3 (23.1) 
1 (7.7) 
0 
0 
0 
It  should  be  noted  that  in  current  clinical  practice,  the  majority  of  ultrasound  examinations  are 
performed using low MI (< 0.4). 
Further  to  a  request  from  CHMP,  information  was  obtained  for  8  of  the  14  patients  with  a  SAE 
(including the 3 fatal cases) undergoing cardiac imaging. High MI (1.3) was used in one of the fatal 
cases (case BCM-0767) and low MI (≤ 0.3) was used in the 7 other cases. Despite the use of high MI 
in  the  case  BCM-00767,  no  cardiac  or  vascular  signs  have  been  observed:  no  premature  ventricular 
contractions  were  observed  during  insonation  and  the  pathology  assessment  of  the  plaque  did  not 
show  any  signs  of  endothelial  damage,  periadvential  inflammation  or  plaque  rupture.  For  the  8 
patients with a SAE undergoing non-cardiac imaging, information on the MI was obtained for only 1 
patient and a low MI was used. Therefore, the MAH believes that the high MI did not play any role in 
the genesis of the event. 
Moreover, there is no evidence of any biological interactions of the gas-filled SonoVue microbubbles 
with ultrasound field and there is no evidence of any potentiation of the biomechanical effects of 
ultrasound either from animal studies or clinical data.  
The  main  issue  under  discussion  is  the  combination  of  both  Sonovue  administration  and  the 
echocardiography  technique,  in  particular  the  MI  of  the  ultrasound  beam.  Recent  experimental  data 
indicate that ultrasound-induced destruction of contrast microbubbles can cause immediate rupture of 
the  microvessels  in  which  these  microbubbles  are  located.  The  number  of  microbubble  destruction 
events and the magnitude of bioeffects is proportional to the MI applied. The bioeffects consist of a 
decrease  in  left  ventricular  contractile  performance,  an  increase  in  coronary  perfusion  pressure,  an 
increase  in  lactate  production  and  the  occurrence  of  microvascular  damage.  They  are  probably 
ischaemic in origin, appear to be related to the MI, to be independent of the type of contrast agent and 
35/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to require a threshold MI to occur. The clinical relevance of these experimental findings is debatable, 
since the human heart, which is much larger than isolated animal hearts, is exposed to far less acoustic 
pressure.  In  fact,  only  occurrence  of  premature  ventricular  contractions  have  been  reported  during 
triggered imaging with ultrasound contrast. 
Experimental studies in rats and dogs with Sonovue at high MI have not shown tissue damage. Study 
BR1-113, single blinded, placebo controlled, looked at the cardiac effect (QT interval and PVCs) in 53 
patients with CAD. No difference compared to placebo was found. A soft definition of CAD was used 
to include patients and the study report does not provide any information on the severity of CAD. This 
patient  population  does  not  seem  to  reflect  the  CAD  severity  of  the  3  fatal  cases.  A  retrospective 
analysis  of  the  clinical  database  to  assess  the  effect  of  MI  was  also  performed.  The  information 
provided  in  this  analysis  is  diluted  by  the  non-cardiac  studies  which  have  little  clinical  relevance  in 
this setting. For the cardiac studies, information on only 13 patients with high MI (>1.0) is available. 
There  is  an  increased  incidence  of  reported  AEs  with  increasing  MI  values.  However,  the  limited 
number of patients at high MI does not allow to draw any definitive conclusion . 
Further to all the information assessed, the fact remains that the specific role of imaging technique in 
the occurrence of these SAEs is still unclear. As a precaution, a recommendation for the use of a low 
MI in the light of some of the experimental data above mentioned has been added to the SPC (section 
4.4), in line with existing recommendations for similar products. 
6.1.2.2. Clinical utility and diagnostic benefit of SonoVue in different patient populations 
Cardiac imaging 
the 
improved 
image  quality 
Tissue  Harmonic  Imaging  (THI)  Mode  has  significantly 
in 
echocardiography.  When  used  alone,  it  is  superior  to  Fundamental  Imaging  for  delineating  left 
ventricular endocardial border. The percentage of patients who require contrast despite using THI is 
around 10-15%. In conjunction with SonoVue, the optimal display of the contrast effect is  achieved 
with low transmit energy (MI <0.6). 
In  a  recent  European  multicentre  study  with  120  patients  (Hoffman  R.  and  al,  2004),  with  evenly 
distributed ejection fraction groups (>55%, 35-55%, <35%), unenhanced THI and SonoVue-enhanced 
echocardiography  at  low  MI  were  performed.  For  the  assessment  of  ejection  fraction  (EF), 
unenhanced and SonoVue-enhanced echocardiography were compared to invasive cardioangiography 
(in  all  patients)  and  cardiac  MRI  (in  a  subset  of  55  patients).  Unenhanced  THI  echocardiography 
resulted in an underestimation of ejection fraction with only moderate correlation to the data obtained 
by  cineventriculography  or  MRI,  while  SonoVue-enhanced  echocardiography  resulted  in  more 
accurate EF calculation. 
An  additional  study  performed  on  110  patients  using  SonoVue  and  Definity  (Malm  S.  et  al  2004), 
each in approximately 50% of the patients, in conjunction with the latest stage ultrasound technology, 
confirms that the evaluation of left ventricle volumes and EF is more accurate when performed with 
contrast enhancement. Similar experience is reported by Nahar (Nahar T et al, Am. J. Cardiol. 2000), 
who compared left ventricular EF obtained by 3 different echocardiographic modalities (Fundamental 
B-mode Imaging, THI and Harmonic  with contrast imaging) in 50 patients with technically difficult 
echocardiograms in comparison with radionuclide ventriculography (RNV).  
Rest-Echocardiography 
The  clinical  utility  of  SonoVue  in  rest  echocardiography  through  the  evaluation  of  the  left  ventricle 
opacification and evaluation of  the endocardial border (EBD) and the conversion of non-interpretable 
to  diagnostic  images  has  been  demonstrated.  It  constitutes  a  primary  non-invasive  method  of 
evaluating  regional  and  global  left  ventricular  function.  Conversion  rates  of  80%  (59%  -  97% 
dependent on off-site reader) have been observed within the pivotal SonoVue clinical trials.  
36/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stress-echocardiography 
Excessive  chest  wall  motion  during  hyperventilation  and  cardiac  translational  movement  during 
tachycardia alter image quality during stress, and non-diagnostic echocardiograms have been reported 
in up to 30% of patients. In study BR1-012 a total of 219 patients with suspected or known coronary 
heart disease were investigated using the positive inotropic stressors dobutamine or arbutamine (which 
has  near  to  identical  pharmacodynamic  effect).  SonoVue  was  shown  to  significantly  improve  the 
endocardial border delineation during stress echocardiography.  
6.1.2.3  Safe use of Sonovue contrast echocardiography consistent with the observed clinical 
events and proposed contraindications in the context of Stress echocardiography  
The  controlled  induction  of  cardiac  ischaemia  during  diagnostic  stress  testing  in  an  a  priori  stable 
cardiac  patient  is  not  expected  to  put  the  patient  into  an  unstable  cardiac  or  haemodynamic  state. 
Ischaemic reactions induced during stress testing are the objective and quantifiable representation of 
exertional symptoms which the patient experiences during everyday life. The typical lumen-narrowing 
coronary artery plaque aspect present in patients with positive stress-echo should not be altered by or 
during  the  ischaemic  response.  The  continuous  monitoring  of  patients  undergoing  stress  testing  is 
expected to  lead  to the timely  detection  of  an ischaemic response,  which is the  diagnostic endpoint. 
Stress testing is then discontinued at an early stage of ischaemia.  
In unstable patients or during acute coronary syndromes, the underlying mechanisms causing cardiac 
ischaemia are likely to be fundamentally different e.g. ruptured plaque with thrombotic occlusion and 
distal embolizations. 
The  proposed  contra-indications  do  not  represent  any  significant  limitation  for  the  use  of  SonoVue 
during stress-echocardiography, as they are practically superimposable to contraindications applicable 
for exercise testing and for pharmacological stress agents, which are all excluding patients with acute 
coronary syndromes and with clinically unstable conditions.  
The  frequency,  type  and  seriousness  of  AE  in  Clinical  Trials  during  SonoVue  use  in  stress-
echocardiography appear to be similar to those observed during unenhanced stress echocardiography. 
To  date,  no  serious  AE  have  been  reported  in  patients  undergoing  stress-echo  exams  in  post-
marketing. 
A retrospective analysis of 694 consecutive stress echocardiograms carried out in a single centre, 319 
with no contrast, 299 with SonoVue and 76 with Optison, performed from January 2002 to May 2004 
has  been  provided  by  the  MAH.  A  low  powered  imaging  modality  with  an  MI  of  0.1-0.2  was  used 
throughout the imaging. The incidence of adverse reactions was similar in the 3 groups and no deaths 
were reported. The Optison group had a slightly lower peak diastolic BP compared to the non-contrast 
group (p<0.005) and the SonoVue group had a slightly higher peak HR compared to the non-contrast 
group  (p<0.001).  Patients  receiving  Optison  had  more  supra-ventricular  events  compared  to  the 
SonoVue  group  (p<0.05)  but  there  was  no  difference  in  the  incidence  of  ventricular  tachycardia, 
supraventricular tachycardia or vagal responses. Triggered imaging was performed only at the end of 
the study and did not lead to any AEs. In his conclusion the author states that in this series dobutamine 
combined  with  contrast  (both  SonoVue  and  Optison)  appears  safe  with  similar  side  effects  to  non-
contrast studies. But based on the results of experimental animal studies (Taniyel A. et al, 2001), he 
does  not  exclude  the  fact  that  microbubbles  contrast  could  be  destroyed  in  humans  by  high  MI 
ultrasound and lead to direct myocardial damage. 
Safe use and benefit/risk of Sonovue in the context of compliance with practice guidelines for the 
adequate use of echocardiography in the management of stable angina. 
Taking into account the new proposed contra-indications the target population for the use of Sonovue 
in  the  cardiac  indication  consists  of  patients  with  known  or  suspected  chronic  stable  angina,  which 
represents a large patient population. Stress-echocardiography in this population allows the detection, 
assessment of extent and  follow-up of regional and  global  left  ventricular  dysfunction. The accurate 
determination  of  EF  is  important  for  choosing  appropriate  medical  or  surgical  therapies,  in  making 
recommendations about activity levels and for the long-term prognosis for these patients. 
37/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
The  use  of  SonoVue  during  stress  echocardiography  could  avoid  prolonged  or  extensive  stress-
induced ischaemia, which may potentially affect the patient’s condition and result in side effects. 
The benefit of image quality improvement of echocardiography by using ultrasound contrast agent has 
been acknowledged in the guidelines. 
The CHMP acknowledges that left ventricular systolic function is an important prognostic variable in 
patients with CAD and can be safely assessed by conventional echocardiography at rest or under stress 
conditions.  When  identified,  underlying  left  ventricular  dysfunction  is  important  both  for  prognostic 
assessment  and  clinical  management.  The  administration  of  Sonovue  allows  a  better  delineation  of 
endocardial  border  and  thus  improves  the  accuracy/reliability  of  echocardiography  to  evaluate  left 
ventricular wall kinetics and function, particularly during stress conditions. 
Conventional rest echocardiography is widely performed in the emergency setting of unstable angina 
and acute myocardial infarction. The use of Sonovue in this setting is definitely contraindicated.  
Echocardiography  also  plays  an  important  role  in  the  clinical  management  of  chronic  CAD.  The 
ACC/AHA 2002 guidelines on management of stable angina support the use of echocardiography to 
assess  the  extent  or  severity  of  ischaemia  (left  ventricular  wall  motion  abnormalities)  when  the 
procedure  could  be  obtained  during  pain  or  shortly  after  chest  pain  (within  30  minutes  after  its 
abatement). The guidelines recommend dobutamine stress echo as the initial test for diagnosis and risk 
stratification in patients with chronic stable angina who are unable to exercise. In patients who are able 
to exercise, the guidelines recommend rest or exercise echo in patients with history or ECG evidence 
of  prior  myocardial  infarction,  signs  of  congestive  heart  failure,  baseline  ECG  abnormalities 
(preexcitation  syndrome,  more  than  1  mm  ST  depression  at  rest),  complex  ventricular  arrhythmias,  
prior  coronary  revascularization  procedures  (PCI  or  CABG).  In  addition,  the  guidelines  support 
assessment  of  left  ventricular  function  in  patients  with  new  or  worsening  CHF,  evidence  of 
intervening myocardial infarction by history or ECG. Echocardiography is not useful for assessment 
of  left  ventricular  function  in  patients  with  normal  ECG,  no  history  of  myocardial  infarction,  no 
evidence  of  CHF,  no  change  in  clinical  status.  However  it  is  acknowledged  that  there  is  a  patient 
population  with  known  or  suspected  chronic  stable  angina,  who  may  be  suitable  for  the  use  of 
Sonovue,  especially  during  stress  where  the  assessment  of  the  extent  of  regional  left  ventricular 
dysfunction is sensible to triage patients for further evaluation or treatment. 
Suggested investigations to identify the underlying mechanisms of “allergy-like” reactions. 
The MAH was asked to provide a programme of active investigations in order to identify the possible 
underlying mechanisms of “allergy-like” reactions (i.e. allergy, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, 
histamine  liberation)  to  SonoVue.  The  severe  hypersensitivity  adverse  reactions  reported  during  the 
post-marketing  of  SonoVue  probably  correspond  to  anaphylactoid  reactions  and  not  to  type  I 
anaphylactic  reaction.  These  “pseudoallergic”  reactions  can  be  the  result  of  complement  activation 
similarly to the effects of the liposomal compounds injected intravenously in humans or be due to a 
direct  effect  on  basophils  and  mast  cells  with  release  of  histamine  as  observed  in  dogs  after 
administration of Cremophor. Therefore an experimental programme has been defined by the MAH to 
evaluate  the  possible  underlying  mechanism  of  complement  activation  induced  by  SonoVue.  This 
programme includes in vivo studies in pigs since the pig is the animal species which is most sensitive 
and  closest  to  man  for  evaluating  the  cardio-vascular  effects  of  complement  activation  by  contrast 
media,  liposomes  and  particles.  In  parallel  to  the  pig  model,  an  in  vitro  programme  was  recently 
started on complement activation of human serum.  
The programme of animal studies proposed by the MAH is acceptable to the CHMP, but the role of 
the MI and complement activation induced by SonoVue should also be evaluated. It is well known that 
the final stages of the complement cascade lead to the formation of membrane attack complex (MAC) 
in cell membranes. Nevertheless, complement activation and its consequences could also occur via the 
two  complement  pathways  (classical  or  alternative),  without  the  terminal  formation  of  MAC.  These 
activations  could  lead  to  the  production  of  several  components  such  as  C3a  or  C5a,  which  display 
38/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
anaphylatoxin  properties.  In  this  context,  a  full  evaluation  of  the  potential  complement  activation 
induced by Sonovue should be undertaken.  
As  a  follow-up  measure,  the  CHMP  has  asked  the  MAH  to  undertake  to  provide  the  results  of  the 
above investigations. 
6.1.2.4. Discussion 
The risk of SonoVue 
The very close temporal association between Sonovue administration and the 3 deaths has caused 
concern, leading to the initial USR. Such a precautionary measure was taken as it cannot be ruled out 
that SonoVue played a role in the occurrence of these fatalities by inducing in patients with severe 
CAD serious AE with haemodynamic consequences, such as bradycardia and a drop of BP eventually 
leading to a myocardial infarction. 
Overall 14 patients undergoing cardiac imaging reported SAEs (including the 3 fatal cases) in the post 
marketing phase. Most of these 14 cases suffered reactions categorised as anaphylactoid or vasovagal. 
All 3 fatal cases had advanced CAD as a common denominator and at least 2 of the 3 patients could be 
considered  as  “clinically  unstable”,  representing  a  high  risk  group  for  acute  coronary  events  and 
sudden death. However, according to the clinical practice guidelines, this is the patient population for 
whom  echocardiographic  assessment  is  the  most  valuable.  It  is  recognised  that  the  “clinically 
unstable” status falls within the contra-indication proposed by the MAH. However, besides a possible 
evolving  coronary  ischaemia,  the  strong  temporal  relationship  between  the  SonoVue  contrast 
echocardiography and the fatal events suggests a triggering factor with SonoVue administration in this 
high coronary risk patient population. 
There  is  an  increased  incidence  of  reported  AEs  with  increasing  mechanical  index  values,  although 
information on only 13 patients  with  high MI(>1.0)  is available for the cardiac studies. This limited 
number of patients does not allow to draw any definitive conclusions. MI information was available 
for 8 of the 14 cardiac imaging patients reporting SAEs in the post marketing phase. A high MI was 
used  in  only  1  of  the  8  patients  (death  report  BCM-000767),  and  a  low  MI  was  used  in  all  other  7 
cases.  In  addition,  it  has  to  be  acknowledged  that  there  is  limited  evidence  of  cardiac  toxicity  of 
Sonovue in clinical studies at high doses of the agent and/or during insonation at high MI. The results 
of  two  placebo-controlled  studies,  albeit  with  a  limited  number  of  patients,  did  not  show  any 
differences  between  placebo  and  Sonovue.  The  retrospective  analysis  conducted  in  675  patients  did 
not  evidence  any  significant  effect  of  either  high  MI  and/or  intermittent  insonation  on  the  general 
safety profile of Sonovue. Despite the unclear role of the MI a recommendation to use a low MI has 
been added to the SPC (section 4.4), in line with existing recommendations for similar products. 
Concerning  stress  echocardiography,  it  is  recognised  that  the  induction  of  cardiac  ischaemia  during 
stress  testing  in  a  stable  cardiac  patient  does  not  put  the  patient  in  an  “unstable”  cardiac  or 
haemodynamic  condition  (i.e  the  proposed  contraindication).  Moreover  a  clinical  study  (BR1-012) 
conducted  in  219  patients  and  a  retrospective  analysis  in  299  patients  with  Sonovue  vs  76  patients 
with  Optison  did  not  raise  any  particular  concern.  Nonetheless,  the  fact  remains  that  there  is  a 
potential risk of Sonovue administered during stress. Therefore appropriate precautions for use in this 
condition have been included in the SPC. 
In order to continue to closely monitor the safety of SonoVue, the MAH has undertaken to reduce the 
periodicity of the PSURs to every 6 months. This is endorsed by CHMP. 
The benefit of SonoVue 
The  invention  of  second  harmonic  imaging  has  rendered  the  clinical  usefulness  of  SonoVue  in  rest 
echocardiography relatively limited. However, there is a patient population with known or suspected 
chronic  stable  angina,  who  may  benefit  from  the  use  of  Sonovue,  especially  during  stress  imaging 
39/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
where the assessment of the extent of regional left ventricular dysfunction is sensible to triage patients 
for further evaluation or treatment. 
Benefit/Risk of SonoVue 
On  the  basis  of  spontaneous  reporting,  SonoVue  has  been  associated  with  a  higher  number  of 
cardiovascular  ADRs,  including  3  fatal  cases,  than  other  available  agents  (mainly  Optison  in  the 
echocardiography  indication,  where  no  death  has  been  observed).  The  CHMP  recognises,  however, 
that  the  basis  for  maintenance  of  the  revocation  of  the  “echocardiography”  indication  for  Sonovue 
may  be  currently  insufficient.  Therefore,  the  benefit  risk  balance  of  SonoVue  in  echocardiography 
could  be  maintained  provided  that  reinforced  contraindications  (in  acute  coronary  syndromes  and 
clinically  unstable  patients)  and  warnings  (in  stress  echography)  are  implemented  in  the  SPC,  as 
follows: 
Section 4.1 “Indications” 
• 
Echocardiography 
SonoVue is a transpulmonary echocardiographic contrast agent for use in patients with suspected or 
established cardiovascular disease to provide opacification of cardiac chambers and enhance 
left ventricular endocardial border delineation. 
Section 4.3 “Contra-Indications” 
• 
“SonoVue  is  contraindicated  for  use  in  patients  with  recent  acute  coronary  syndrome  or  clinically 
unstable  ischaemic  cardiac  disease,  including:  evolving  or  ongoing  myocardial  infarction, 
typical angina at rest within last 7 days, significant worsening of cardiac symptoms within last 
7 days, recent coronary artery intervention or other factors suggesting clinical instability (for 
example,  recent  deterioration  of  ECG,  laboratory  or  clinical  findings)  acute  cardiac  failure, 
Class III/IV cardiac failure, or severe rhythm disorders.” 
Section 4.4 “Warnings and precautions for use”: 
• 
It should be emphasised that stress echocardiography, which can mimic an ischaemic episode, could 
potentially  increase  the  risk  of  SonoVue  utilisation.  Therefore,  if  SonoVue  is  to  be  used  in 
conjunction  with  stress  echocardiography  patients  must  have  a  stable  condition  verified  by 
absence of chest pain or ECG modification during the two preceding days. Moreover, ECG and 
blood  pressure  monitoring  should  be  performed  during  SonoVue-enhanced  echocardiography 
with a pharmacological stress (e.g. with dobutamine). ECG monitoring should be performed in 
high-risk patients as clinically indicated. 
Care should be taken in patients with ischaemic cardiac disease because in these patients allergy-like 
and/or  vasodilatory  reactions  may  lead  to  life-threatening  conditions.  Emergency  equipment 
and personnel trained in its use must be readily available. 
It is recommended to keep the patient under close medical supervision during and for at least 30 
minutes following the administration of SonoVue.  
In animal studies, the application of echo-contrast agents revealed biological side effects (e.g. 
endothelial cell injury, capillary rupture) by interaction with the ultrasound beam. Although 
these biological side effects have not been reported in humans, the use of a low mechanical 
index is recommended. 
40/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
