Summary of risk  management plan for  Sorafenib Accord 200  mg 
film-coated tablets (Sorafenib) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated 
tablets.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Sorafenib  Accord  200  mg  film-coated  tablets,  how 
these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Sorafenib Accord 
200 mg film-coated tablets’ risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets’ summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its 
package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how 
Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets should be read in the 
context  of  all  this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Sorafenib 
Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets’ RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Sorafenib Accord is indicated for following indications: 
Hepatocellular carcinoma 
Sorafenib Accord is indicated for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Sorafenib Accord is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who 
have failed prior interferon-alpha or interleukin-2 based therapy or are considered unsuitable for 
such therapy. 
It contains sorafenib as the active substance and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets’ benefits 
can  be  found  in  Sorafenib  Accord  200  mg  film-coated  tablets’  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-
language  summary,  available  on 
the  EMA  website,  under 
the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sorafenib-accord. 
 
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important risks of Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets together with measures to minimise 
such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated 
tablets’ risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the  patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed during signal management activity, so that  immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks  of  Sorafenib  Accord  200  mg  film-coated  tablets  are  risks  that  need  special  risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be  safely  taken.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-
coated tablets. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Important identified risks 
•  Severe skin adverse events 
•  Reversible  posterior  leukoencephalopathy  syndrome 
(RPLS) 
•  Hemorrhage 
including 
lung 
hemorrhage, 
gastroinestinal 
(GI)  hemorrhage 
and 
cerebral 
hemorrhage 
•  Arterial thrombosis (myocardial infarction) 
•  Congestive heart failure (CHF) 
•  Squamous cell cancer of the skin 
•  Gastrointestinal perforation 
•  Renal dysfunction 
• 
Interstitial lung-disease (ILD)-like events 
•  Drug-induced hepatitis 
Important potential risks 
•  Arterial thrombosis (cerebral ischemia) 
•  Wound healing complications 
•  Microangiopathy 
•  Torsade de pointes (TdP) 
•  Pregnancy and exposure through breastfeeding 
Missing information 
•  None 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets. 
 
 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Sorafenib Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets. 
