EMA/781233/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005921 
Sorafenib Accord (sorafenib) 
An overview of Sorafenib Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Sorafenib Accord and what is it used for? 
Sorafenib Accord is a cancer medicine used to treat patients who have the following diseases: 
•  hepatocellular carcinoma (a type of liver cancer); 
• 
advanced renal cell carcinoma (a type of kidney cancer) when cancer treatment with 
interferon alpha or interleukin-2 has failed or cannot be used; 
Sorafenib Accord contains the active substance sorafenib. 
Sorafenib Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Sorafenib Accord contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called 
Nexavar. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Sorafenib Accord used? 
Sorafenib Accord can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment with Sorafenib Accord should be 
supervised by doctors who have experience in using cancer treatments. 
Sorafenib Accord is given as two tablets twice a day, without food or with a meal that has a low or 
moderate fat content. Treatment should continue as long as the patient continues to benefit from it 
without too many side effects. To manage side effects, treatment may be temporarily interrupted or 
the dose may be reduced. 
For more information about using Sorafenib Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Sorafenib Accord work? 
The active substance in Sorafenib Accord, sorafenib, is a protein kinase inhibitor. This means that it 
blocks some specific enzymes known as protein kinases that are involved in the growth and spread of 
cancer cells, as well as in the development of new blood vessels supplying the tumours. By blocking 
these enzymes, Sorafenib Accord can reduce the growth of cancer cells and cut off the blood supply 
that keeps them growing. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Sorafenib Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Nexavar, and do not need to be repeated for Sorafenib 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Sorafenib Accord. The company 
also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Sorafenib Accord? 
Because Sorafenib Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Sorafenib Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Sorafenib Accord 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Nexavar. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Nexavar, the benefits of Sorafenib Accord outweigh the identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sorafenib Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sorafenib Accord have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sorafenib Accord are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Sorafenib Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Other information about Sorafenib Accord 
Sorafenib Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 9 November 2022. 
Further information on Sorafenib Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/sorafenib-accord. 
This overview was last updated on 11-2022. 
Sorafenib Accord (sorafenib)  
EMA/781233/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
