EMA/109564/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005755 
Sotyktu (deucravacitinib) 
An overview of Sotyktu and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Sotyktu and what is it used for? 
Sotyktu is a medicine for treating adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (an inflammatory 
disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin) who are eligible for systemic therapy (treatment with a 
medicine given by mouth or by injection).  
Sotyktu contains the active substance deucravacitinib. 
How is Sotyktu used? 
Sotyktu can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be started by a doctor experienced 
in the diagnosis and treatment of psoriasis. 
Sotyktu is available as tablets, which the patient takes once a day. The doctor should evaluate the 
effect of the treatment regularly and may stop treatment if the condition does not improve after 24 
weeks. 
For more information about using Sotyktu, including dose recommendations, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Sotyktu work? 
The active substance in Sotyktu, deucravacitinib, blocks the action of an enzyme inside cells called 
tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2) which belongs to the Janus kinases (JAK) family of proteins. This enzyme 
plays a role in triggering the production of substances known as cytokines, which are involved in the 
inflammation and other processes that cause psoriasis. By blocking the action of TYK2, deucravacitinib 
prevents the production of cytokines, thereby reducing inflammation and improving the symptoms of 
plaque psoriasis. 
What benefits of Sotyktu have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies involving 1,686 patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis compared Sotyktu 
with placebo (a dummy treatment) and apremilast, another systemic therapy for plaque psoriasis. The 
studies looked at an improvement of patients’ symptoms after 16 weeks of treatment. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Around 55% of patients treated with Sotyktu had a reduction of at least 75% in their PASI score (a 
measure of the severity and extent of skin lesions) compared with around 38% of those treated with 
apremilast and around 11% of those who received placebo. 
Additionally, around 51% of patients treated with Sotyktu achieved a sPGA score (a measure of the 
severity and extent of skin lesions) of 0 or 1 (where 0 and 1 refer to skin clear or almost clear, 
respectively) and had a reduction of 2 points or more in their sPGA score. Around 33% of those treated 
with apremilast and around 8% in those who received placebo had these results. 
Improvement of symptoms were maintained after 52 weeks of treatment with Sotyktu. 
What are the risks associated with Sotyktu? 
The most common side effect with Sotyktu (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is upper 
respiratory infection (nose and throat infection). For the full list of side effects of Sotyktu, see the 
package leaflet. 
Patients who have an important or long-term infection, or an infection that keeps coming back, must 
not take this medicine. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Sotyktu authorised in the EU? 
Studies show that Sotyktu is effective at reducing the symptoms of moderate to severe plaque 
psoriasis. Side effects are mild to moderate and manageable. Sotyktu provides an additional treatment 
option for patients who have not yet been treated with systemic therapy and those who do not benefit 
from other systemic therapies. Therefore, the European Medicines Agency decided that Sotyktu’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sotyktu? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sotyktu have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sotyktu are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Sotyktu are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Sotyktu 
Sotyktu received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 24 March 2023. 
Further information on Sotyktu can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/sotyktu.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2023. 
Sotyktu (deucravacitinib)  
EMA/109564/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
