27 June 2019 
EMA/447250/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): sofosbuvir 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010134/201812 
Period covered by the PSUR: 06 December 2017 to 05 December 2018  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for sofosbuvir, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
1.  Decrease in immunosuppressive therapy concentrations requiring dose modification has been observed 
during  the  course  of  hepatitis  C  treatment  in  patients  taking  tacrolimus,  as  immunosuppressant,  and 
direct-acting antivirals (DAA), such as sofosbuvir. Based on the absorption, distribution, metabolism and 
excretion  profile  of  immunosuppressant  drugs  and  sofosbuvir,  a  significant  pharmacokinetic  interaction 
between  these  agents  is  not  expected,  as  reflected  in  current  SmPC  of  Sovaldi.  However,  the  sustained 
inflammatory  response  associated  with  hepatitis  C  infection  may  lead  to  downregulation  of  certain 
drug-metabolizing  enzymes,  including  CYP3A.  Initiation  of  DAA-based  therapy  leads  to  a  rapid  viral 
clearance,  normalization  of  liver  function  tests  and  a  reduction  in  inflammation,  which  thereby  leads  to 
enhanced metabolism of CYP3A substrates, such as tacrolimus. Owing to the narrow therapeutic index of 
tacrolimus, appropriate clinical monitoring and management of immunosuppression with tacrolimus or other 
drugs with a narrow therapeutic margin that are metabolized by the liver should be carried out.  
2.  The  Product  Information  does  not  make  specific  recommendations  to  dose  adjustment  of 
immunosuppressive  agents  at  initiation  of  co-administration,  but  prescribers  should  be  aware  of  the 
potential  impact  of  direct-acting  antiviral  therapy  on  immunosuppressive  drug  levels  (and  other  drugs 
metabolized  by  the  liver) during  therapy,  so  that  they  are  better  alerted on  the  potential  need  for dose 
adjustment.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for sofosbuvir the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing sofosbuvir is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/447250/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
