EMA/793954/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002661 
EPAR summary for the public 
Spectrila 
asparaginase 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Spectrila. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Spectrila. 
For practical information about using Spectrila, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Spectrila and what is it used for? 
Spectrila is used in adults and children to treat acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), a cancer of white 
blood cells called lymphoblasts, in combination with other cancer medicines. It contains the active 
substance asparaginase. 
How is Spectrila used? 
Spectrila is given every 3 days by infusion (drip) into a vein, with the dose depending on the patient’s 
age and body surface area. 
Only healthcare professionals experienced in cancer treatments should prescribe and give Spectrila. 
The healthcare professional should only give the medicine in a hospital setting where resuscitation 
equipment is available. For further information, see the package leaflet.  
Spectrila can only be obtained with a prescription and is available in a vial as a powder to be made into 
a solution for infusion.  
How does Spectrila work? 
The active substance in Spectrila, asparaginase, is an enzyme that works by breaking up and reducing 
the blood levels of the amino acid asparagine. The cancer cells need this amino acid to grow and 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
multiply, and so its reduction in the blood causes the cells to die. Normal cells, by contrast, can 
produce their own asparagine and are less affected by the medicine. 
What benefits of Spectrila have been shown in studies? 
In a study in 199 children with ALL, Spectrila was as effective as another asparaginase medicine (both 
used in combination with other medicines) in reducing blood asparagine: 95% of patients treated with 
Spectrila and 94% of those treated with the other medicine containing asparaginase had complete 
depletion (reduction) of blood asparagine. 
What are the risks associated with Spectrila? 
The most common side effects with Spectrila (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are allergic 
reactions (including flushing, rash, low blood pressure, hives and difficulty breathing), diarrhoea, 
nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, tiredness, swelling (caused by fluid build-up), high blood sugar, and 
low blood levels of albumin (a protein) and other abnormalities in blood tests. For the full list of side 
effects reported with Spectrila, see the package leaflet. 
The most serious side effects with Spectrila include severe allergic reactions, blood clots, pancreatitis 
(inflammation of the pancreas), and liver problems. 
Spectrila must not be used in patients who are allergic to any asparaginase preparation and those who 
have pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), severe liver disease or blood clotting problems. It 
must also not be used in patients who have ever had pancreatitis, or severe bleeding or blood clots 
following asparaginase treatment. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Spectrila approved? 
Spectrila is effective at reducing blood asparagine that the cancer cells need to survive. Although the 
data in adults are limited, there is substantial clinical experience of asparaginase medicines in adults, 
and the benefits of Spectrila in adults can be expected to be similar.   
As for its risks, the side effects of Spectrila are similar to those of other asparaginase medicines and 
are addressed in the medicine’s risk minimisation plan. 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) therefore concluded that the 
benefits of Spectrila are greater than the risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Spectrila? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Spectrila is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Spectrila, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Spectrila 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Spectrila on 14 January 2016. 
Spectrila  
EMA/793954/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Spectrila can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Spectrila, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2016. 
Spectrila  
EMA/793954/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
