EMA/58674/2015 
EMEA/H/C/002581 
EPAR summary for the public 
Spedra 
avanafil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Spedra. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Spedra. 
For practical information about using Spedra, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Spedra and what is it used for? 
Spedra is a medicine used to treat adult men with erectile dysfunction (sometimes called impotence), 
when they cannot get or keep a hard penis (erection) sufficient for satisfactory sexual activity. For 
Spedra to be effective, sexual stimulation is required. 
Spedra contains the active substance avanafil. 
How is Spedra used? 
Spedra is available as tablets (50, 100 and 200 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription. The 
recommended dose is 100 mg, taken approximately 15 to 30 minutes before sexual activity; patients 
should not take more than one dose a day. Spedra may be taken with or without food. If it is taken 
with food, it may take longer to work. The dose may be adjusted if necessary; lower doses may be 
needed in patients with liver problems or who are taking certain other medicines. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Spedra work? 
The active ingredient in Spedra, avanafil, belongs to a group of medicines called phosphodiesterase-
type-5 (PDE5) inhibitors. It works by blocking the phosphodiesterase enzyme, which normally breaks 
down a substance known as cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). During normal sexual 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
stimulation, cGMP is produced in the penis, where it causes the muscle in the spongy tissue of the 
penis (the corpora cavernosa) to relax. This allows blood to flow into the corpora, producing the 
erection. By blocking the breakdown of cGMP, Spedra enhances its effect on erectile function. Sexual 
stimulation is still needed to produce an erection. 
What benefits of Spedra have been shown in studies? 
Spedra has been studied in three main studies involving over 3,400 men with erectile dysfunction. The 
first study involved men from the general population, but because certain conditions associated with 
erectile dysfunction might affect response to treatment the second study looked mainly at men who 
had erectile dysfunction and diabetes, and the third was in men who had erectile dysfunction after 
surgery on the prostate gland. In these studies, which lasted for 12 weeks, different doses of Spedra 
taken approximately 30 minutes before sexual activity were compared with placebo (a dummy tablet). 
The main measures of effectiveness in all three studies were the percentage of erections that lasted 
long enough for successful intercourse, the percentage of successful vaginal penetrations, and the 
change in an assessment score for erectile function.  
Spedra was more effective than placebo in all studies. The results of the first study showed that 
Spedra taken approximately 30 minutes before sexual activity at a dose of 100 or 200 mg increased 
the percentage of successful attempts at intercourse from about 13% before treatment to about 57%, 
whereas placebo only increased it to 27%. The medicine also produced about 20% more successful 
vaginal penetrations than placebo. The improvement in assessment score was about 5 to 7 points 
more than with placebo. 
An additional study involving 440 adults with erectile dysfunction was also carried out, where Spedra 
was taken approximately 15 minutes before sexual activity. The percentage of successful attempts was 
about 28% with Spedra at a dose of 200 mg and about 25% with a dose of 100 mg, compared with 
14% with placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Spedra? 
The most common side effects with Spedra (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are headache, 
flushing (reddening of the skin) and nasal congestion; back pain has also been reported and may affect 
up to 1 in 100 people. For the full list of all side effects reported with Spedra, see the package leaflet. 
Doctors should consider the potential risks of sexual activity for the heart in men who have heart 
disease before prescribing Spedra. The medicine must not be used by patients with certain serious 
heart or circulatory problems, including those who have had a heart attack, stroke, or serious 
arrhythmia (irregularity of the heart rhythm) in the last six months and those who have unstable 
angina (a severe type of chest pain), angina during sexual intercourse, heart failure, or high or low 
blood pressure. It must also not be used by patients who have severely reduced liver or kidney 
function, or who have had loss of vision because of a problem with blood flow to the nerve in the eye 
(non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy, NAION) that can be triggered by this class of 
medicines.  
Spedra must not be taken with certain other medicines including nitrates (a type of medicine used for 
angina) or medicines that strongly reduce the breakdown of Spedra in the body. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Spedra  
EMA/141995/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Why is Spedra approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) noted that Spedra was more 
effective than placebo in allowing successful intercourse. However, the fact that it was not compared 
directly with other medicines in its class made it hard to evaluate its potential place in treating erectile 
dysfunction. Regarding its safety, side effects were similar to other medicines of its class. The 
Committee therefore considered that Spedra’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended 
that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Spedra? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Spedra is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Spedra, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Spedra 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Spedra on 21 June 2013.  
The full EPAR for Spedra can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Spedra, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2015. 
Spedra  
EMA/141995/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
