EMA/849592/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005874 
Spevigo (spesolimab) 
An overview of Spevigo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Spevigo and what is it used for? 
Spevigo is a medicine that acts on the immune system. It is used in adults to treat flare-ups 
(recurrence or worsening) of generalised pustular psoriasis, an inflammatory skin disease causing 
pustules (pus-filled lesions) to appear over large areas of skin. 
Spevigo contains the active substance spesolimab. 
How is Spevigo used? 
Spevigo can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in managing inflammatory skin diseases. 
The medicine is given once as an infusion (drip) into a vein over 90 minutes; a second dose can be 
given one week later if symptoms are still present. 
For more information about using Spevigo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Spevigo work? 
The active substance in Spevigo, spesolimab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that binds to 
and blocks the receptor (target) for a protein involved in inflammation called interleukin-36 (IL-36). By 
preventing IL-36 from attaching to its receptor, Spevigo reduces inflammation and improves the 
symptoms of generalised pustular psoriasis. 
What benefits of Spevigo have been shown in studies? 
A main study involving 53 adults with generalised pustular psoriasis flare-ups of moderate to severe 
intensity showed that Spevigo was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) at improving 
symptoms of the disease. After one week, 54% (19 out of 35 patients) of those who received a single 
dose of Spevigo had no visible pustules compared with 6% (1 out of 18 patients) of those who were 
given placebo, as measured using the GPPGA pustulation subscore (a measure of the severity of the 
pustules). 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Spevigo? 
The most common side effects with Spevigo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
infections.  
For the full list of side effects of Spevigo, see the package leaflet. 
Spevigo must not be given to patients who have an active infection that the doctor considers important 
or those with severe or life-threatening hypersensitivity (allergy) to any of the medicine’s ingredients. 
Why is Spevigo authorised in the EU? 
The severity of generalised pustular psoriasis flare-ups varies but can lead to organ failure and sepsis 
(blood poisoning). The disease is therefore a considerable burden on patients’ lives. At the time of 
approval, there were no approved treatments for flare-ups of generalised pustular psoriasis and most 
therapies used in clinical practice had limited data on safety and efficacy.  
Spevigo has been shown to be effective in clearing pustules within one week following a flare-up. 
Although safety data are limited, the safety profile is considered manageable.  
Spevigo has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that that the European Medicines 
Agency decided that the benefits of Spevigo are greater than its risks, but the company will have to 
provide additional evidence after authorisation.  
Conditional authorisation is granted on the basis of less comprehensive data than are normally 
required. It is granted for medicines that fulfil an unmet medical need to treat serious diseases and 
when the benefits of having them available earlier outweigh any risks associated with using the 
medicines while waiting for further evidence. Every year, the Agency will review any new information 
that becomes available until data become comprehensive and this overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Spevigo? 
Since Spevigo has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets the medicine will 
provide data from a study of the medicine in the treatment of recurrent flare-ups in patients with 
generalised pustular psoriasis to confirm its safety and effectiveness.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Spevigo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Spevigo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Spevigo are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Spevigo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Spevigo 
Spevigo received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 December 2022. 
Further information on Spevigo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/spevigo.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2022. 
Spevigo (spesolimab)  
EMA/849592/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
