EMA/572648/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Invented name: Spikevax 
Common name: COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine (nucleoside-modified) 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted and personal data anonymised. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status of this report and steps taken for the assessment 
Current 
Description 
step 
Planned date 
Actual Date 
Start of procedure 
13 Sep 2021 
13 Sep 2021 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
23 Sep 2021 
23 Sep 2021 
CHMP members comments 
29 Sep 2021 
29 Sep 2021 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
01 Oct 2021 
01 Oct 2021 
Opinion 
04 Oct 2021 
04 Oct 2021 
. 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 2/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
2. Introduction ............................................................................................ 4 
2.1. List of references .................................................................................................. 5 
2.2. Submitted Data .................................................................................................... 5 
3. Clinical Efficacy aspects ......................................................................... 12 
3.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted ................................................................... 12 
3.2. Results .............................................................................................................. 15 
3.3. Discussion ......................................................................................................... 18 
4. Clinical Safety aspects ........................................................................... 19 
4.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted ................................................................... 19 
4.2. Results .............................................................................................................. 20 
4.3. Discussion ......................................................................................................... 22 
5. Changes to the Product Information...................................................... 23 
6. Request for supplementary information ................................................ 23 
6.1. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 23 
7. Assessment of the responses to the request for supplementary 
information ............................................................................................... 23 
7.1. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 23 
8. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit-risk balance .................... 27 
9. Recommendations ................................................................................. 28 
10. EPAR changes ...................................................................................... 29 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 3/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 20 August 2021 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
To update sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC in order to introduce a third dose of Spikevax in 
the primary vaccination schedule for individuals 18 years of age and older who have undergone a solid 
organ transplantation, or who are diagnosed with conditions that are considered to have an equivalent 
level of immunocompromise, based on updated clinical literature; the Package Leaflet is updated 
accordingly. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet. 
GLP/GCP inspections 
No (non)-clinical/clinical study site inspections are needed. 
2.  Introduction 
On 6 January 2021, a conditional marketing authorisation (cMA) for Spikevax was granted under 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC -complete and independent application. The approved indication is 
‘active immunisation to prevent COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus in individuals 12 years of age 
and older’. The approved posology is a course of two doses administered 28 days apart. One dose (0.5 
mL) contains 100 micrograms of messenger RNA (mRNA), embedded in SM-102 lipid nanoparticles. 
Recent vaccine effectiveness data from the USA show that approximately 44% of breakthrough cases 
with COVID-19 hospitalisation occur in individuals with an immunocompromising condition, including 
active solid organ or hematologic malignancy and prior solid organ transplant (Tenforde et al. 2021, 
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.07.08.21259776v1). Published data indicate that the 
vaccinated immunosuppressed individuals continue to have an increased risk of severe COVID-19. In 
this specific population the standard 2-doses vaccination strategy have been associated with reduced 
immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccines including Spikevax (Boyarsky et al. 2021; Stumpf 
et al. 2021; Greenberger et al. 2021; Stampfer et al. 2021, Rincon-Arevalo et al. 2021, Narasimhan et 
al. 2021, Thakkar et al. 2021, Addeo et al. 2021, Moor et al. 2021). Since optimal protection of this 
high-risk group require an appropriate immune response induced by vaccination to prevent severe 
COVID-19 there is a need to evaluate the benefit and risk of a further dose. 
The MAH submitted the results reported by Hall et al. 2021 to support the implementation of a third 
dose of Spikevax (also referred to as mRNA-1273) for immunocompromised individuals such as 
patients who have undergone a solid organ transplant or who are diagnosed with conditions of 
equivalent immune compromise. Based on this publication, the MAH recommends updating the product 
information accordingly. 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 4/29 
 
 
 
It should be noted that no data are yet available from the post authorisation study initiated by the 
MAH in solid organ transplant recipients and healthy controls to assess the safety and immunogenicity 
of Spikevax in immunocompromised adults aged 18 years and older as agreed during the initial 
approval in the RMP. This study is currently ongoing and data are expected in 2022/2023. 
2.1.  List of references 
Hall et al. 2021, Randomized Trial of a Third Dose of mRNA-1273 Vaccine in Transplant Recipients 
Rincon-Arevalo et al. 2021, Impaired humoral immunity to SARS-CoV-2 BNT162b2 vaccine in kidney 
transplant recipients and dialysis patients 
Boyarsky et al. 2021, Antibody Response to 2-Dose SARS-CoV-2 mRNA Vaccine Series in Solid Organ 
Transplant Recipients 
Stumpf et al. 2021 Humoral and cellular immunity to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination in renal transplant 
versus dialysis patients: A prospective, multicenter observational study using mRNA-1273 or 
BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine 
Greenberger et al. 2021, Antibody response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in patients with hematologic 
malignancies 
Stampfer et al. 2021, Response to mRNA vaccination for COVID-19 among patients with multiple 
myeloma 
Narasimhan et al. 2021, Serological Response in Lung Transplant Recipients after Two Doses of SARS-
CoV-2 mRNA Vaccines 
Thakkar et al. 2021, Seroconversion rates following COVID-19 vaccination among patients with cancer 
Addeo et al. 2021, Immunogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 messenger RNA vaccines in patients with cancer 
Moor et al. 2021, Humoral and cellular responses to mRNA vaccines against SARS-CoV2 in patients 
with a history of CD20-B-cell depleting therapy 
2.2.  Submitted Data 
The MAH submitted the publication of Hall et al. 2021 together with one corresponding appendix and 
the study protocol to support the application. The submitted documents refer to a (randomised) sub-
study of an observational, comparative, cohort study “The PREVent-COVID” Study (CAPCR ID 20-
6069).  
Upon request further data were provided by the investigators of the PREVent-COVID study.  
Study design 
This study was conducted by the University Health Network organ transplant program. It is a 
randomised, placebo-controlled, double blind study of transplant recipients already enrolled in the 
PREVENT-COVID Study. 120 adult solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients who were stable outpatients 
with functioning allograft and who have already received both doses of Spikevax at 0 and 1 months 
have been enrolled in the study. Consented patients were randomised 1:1 to receive a third dose of 
Spikevax (0.5 mL intramuscular injection of Spikevax) or saline placebo (0.5 mL intramuscular 
injection of normal saline) in the deltoid muscle of the arm. Both, participant and healthcare provider 
who administers the vaccine were blinded to intervention versus placebo. The contents of both mRNA-
1273 and placebo vaccine for injection were concealed with opaque tape to ensure blinding. Blood 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 5/29 
 
 
 
work was performed 4-6 weeks after immunisation to determine immunogenicity. A subset of 50 
participants were asked to provide an additional 20 mL of blood for cell-mediated immunity. These 
were the same 50 participants that consented to the PBMC substudy in PREVenT-COVID. 
Follow-up 
Patients were followed every 2 weeks for 3 months after the third Spikevax (or placebo) dose. This is 6 
months after enrolment in the main PREVenT-COVID study. They were to be telephoned every 2 weeks 
to determine whether they were diagnosed with COVID or if they have any COVID-related symptoms 
(fever, cough, myalgias, sore throat, runny nose, diarrhoea, shortness of breath). 
Study population 
Adult patients (aged ≥18 years) who had received an organ transplant (kidney, liver, heart, lung and 
pancreas, or combined organs) and had a functioning allograft. Patients were eligible if they had 
already received both doses of the mRNA-1273 vaccine at the 0,1- month interval. 
Exclusion criteria for the current trial were as follows: 
1.  within 1-month post-transplant 
2.  had a febrile illness within 1-week prior 
3.  previous microbiologically confirmed COVID-19 infection 
4.  active cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection 
5.  received intravenous immunoglobulin in the 4 weeks prior 
6.  received rituximab in the last 6 months 
7.  had treatment for acute rejection in the 30 days prior 
8.  an allergic reaction to the previous mRNA-1273 vaccination 
Patients were enrolled without a-priori knowledge of their antibody response after the second dose. In 
the initial COVID-19 vaccine rollout at transplant centre, since there were limited data on vaccine 
safety, patients who were >6 months post-transplant were initially prioritised. Some of the patients in 
the current trial were enrolled in an observational study (n=84) that analysed antibody and T-cell 
responses after the first and second doses of vaccine. (Hall VG FV, Ierullo M, Ku T, Marinelli T, 
Majchrzak-Kita B, Yousuf A, Kulasingam V, Humar A, Kumar D. Humoral and Cellular immune response 
and Safety of 2-dose SARS-CoV-2 mRNA-1273 (Moderna) vaccine in Solid Organ Transplant 
Recipients. Am J Transplant. 2021 (In press)).  
Study aim and objectives 
Study Aim 
To investigate if a third dose of Spikevax at 3 months post initial vaccination will boost the antibody 
titer and immune response in solid organ transplant recipients. 
Hypothesis 
A third dose of COVID-19 vaccine will provide a greater immune response compared to only two doses. 
Study objectives 
Primary objective 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 6/29 
 
 
 
To determine the immunogenicity of a third dose of Spikevax given at 3 months post-initial vaccination 
in solid organ transplant recipients. 
Secondary objectives 
Vaccine safety and side effects that occur daily up to 7 days after vaccination. Follow-up will occur for 
graft rejection and any health-care contact up to 3 months post-study vaccine. 
Study endpoints 
Primary endpoint 
The primary endpoint was the serologic response, i.e. the percentage of patients that achieve an anti–
receptor-binding domain (RBD) antibody level of ≥100 units/ml at the 4-6 week time-point post 
intervention, measured with an Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 immunoassay (Roche). 
Secondary endpoints 
Secondary immunogenicity endpoints included the percent neutralisation, as measured with a validated 
surrogate virus neutralisation assay (Genscript), and the polyfunctional T-cell response. 
Safety endpoints included local and systemic adverse events recorded until 7 days after injection and 
episodes of acute organ rejection, hospitalisation, other adverse events, and COVID-19 (i.e. 
microbiology proven by PCR from appropriate clinical specimen and compatible clinical syndrome) in 
the 6 months following vaccination. 
Details regarding the immunogenicity and safety endpoints are described in the corresponding efficacy 
and safety sections of this AR. 
Blood take for immunogenicity 
In all participants, pre-third dose blood was obtained 6±2 weeks after the second dose (mean 37±14 
days placebo; 37±15 days mRNA-1273). Only in a subgroup of 84 patients immunogenicity 
evaluations prior to the first and prior to the second dose were performed. 
Statistical methods 
Sample Size  
It was assumed that at least 33% of participants who were to be randomised to receive a third dose of 
Spikevax will have an antibody titer >100 AU/mL when measured at 4-6 weeks post vaccination 
compared to the expected 10% that have received two doses of vaccine. For two independent study 
groups, to achieve a power of 80% with an alpha level 0.05, and 1:1 randomisation a sample size of 
98 patients was required. It was aimed to enrol all 120 patients from the main PREVENT-COVID study 
to account for any loss to follow-up.  
In case it was not possible to enrol all 120 patients from the main PREVENT-COVID study, it was 
planned to contact as many participants as needed from the MOT vaccine clinic to fulfil this sample size 
calculation. 
Safety analyses 
The safety analysis was to be performed in all patients who received the study vaccine regardless of 
whether they returned for follow-up serum (intention-to-treat population). Demographics and safety 
analysis were to be summarised using descriptive statistics.  
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 7/29 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity analyses – Primary endpoint 
The immunogenicity analysis was to be performed in those who received the third vaccine dose and 
returned for follow-up serum (per-protocol population). The primary endpoint was defined as a post-
intervention (4-6 weeks after third dose) anti-RBD titer of ≥ 100 U/ml as a threshold for response. The 
hypothesis of no difference in response rate between placebo and mRNA-1273 groups was to be 
assessed in the primary analysis with a Yates-corrected chi-square test; an unadjusted relative risk 
(RR) was to be calculated and a 95% confidence interval (CI) for the unadjusted RR was to be 
calculated using the normal approximation to the distribution of the log-relative risk. For the primary 
outcome, an adjusted marginal relative risk (RR) was also to be computed, along with a 95% CI. To 
obtain the adjusted RR estimate, a logistic regression model was used with baseline log(anti-RBD) titer 
as a covariate. 
Immunogenicity analyses – Secondary endpoints 
Analyses for the secondary endpoints were defined as follows: 
•  Assess pre-intervention antibody levels (i.e. baseline): absolute level (median; IQR) and 
percentage meeting threshold value (≥100) to ensure groups are balanced pre-intervention. 
Change in pre-post antibody level (paired data; Wilcoxon rank sum test).  
•  Median levels of antibody post-intervention at the 4-6 week time period (median; IQR); 
compare using Mann-Whitney U test assuming non-parametric distribution. 
•  Calculate fold-change in antibody level by using post-antibody divided by pre-antibody. If 
pre-or post-intervention antibody is negative use a value of 1/2 the detection threshold for 
calculation. Compare fold-change difference in two groups (median and mean fold change). 
•  Calculate T-cell response by using the number of SARS-CoV-2 specific CD4 and CD8 T-cells 
that produce both IFN-γ and IL-2 (defined as polyfunctional). The number is expressed as 
number of positive cells per 106 CD4 cells or CD8 cells respectively; (median; IQR with 
comparison between Placebo and Spikevax post-third dose using Mann-Whitney U test). 
Baseline (pre-intervention) median number of positive cells to ensure balance of the groups 
pre-intervention (median; IQR). 
• 
The Genscript SVNT (surrogate virus neutralisation test) provides a neutralisation percentage 
(0-100%). As per test manufacturer’s instructions, a threshold value of greater than 30% is 
considered positive for neutralising antibody. Analysis plan was to compare both the absolute 
SVNT percentage value between Spikevax and placebo (median percent neutralisation) using 
a Mann-Whitney test and the percentage of patients that achieve >30% threshold value in 
the two study arms using a corrected Chi-square test. 
CHMP’s comment 
The description of statistical analyses in the protocol or SAP remains vague in many places and is not 
to the standard of pivotal trials usually submitted to the authorities. 
Details of the adjusted (marginal) RR and for confidence intervals for change from baseline were only 
provided post hoc in the supplement of Hall et al. but not pre-specified in the protocol or SAP. The 
supplement explained the analyses as follows: 
First the responses were predicted using the baseline log(anti-RBD) titer as a covariate and assuming 
everyone was in the vaccinated group. Then the responses were predicted using the baseline log(anti-
RBD) titer as a covariate assuming everyone was in the non-vaccinated group. The ratio of the 
averages of the two sets of probabilities was used as the estimate of the marginal adjusted RR. The 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 8/29 
 
 
 
95% BCa CI for this RR was calculated based on 4000 bootstrap replications of the calculation of this 
model based RR. Confidence intervals for the fold-change from pre-to post, and the absolute values of 
anti-RBD titers were computed using the nonparametric bootstrap with 4000 replicates and the BCa 
method. 
Computation of confidence intervals for secondary endpoints was not pre-specified in either protocol or 
SAP. Only the supplement described the computations post hoc as follows: 
For secondary outcomes, confidence internals for the differences in median, percent virus 
neutralisation, and SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cells were computed using the nonparametric bootstrap with 
4000 replicates and the BCa method. Confidence intervals for the RR for secondary binary outcomes 
were calculated using the normal-based approximation.  
Likewise, treatment of multiple testing was not defined in the SAP or protocol. The supplement stated 
in that regard: 
Statistical significance for the primary outcome was defined as a p value < 0.05. Because no provision 
for correcting for multiplicity when conducting tests for secondary outcomes was pre-specified, all 
secondary results were reported as point estimates and 95% CIs. The widths of the CIs have not been 
adjusted for multiplicity, so the intervals should not be used to infer definitive treatment effects for 
secondary outcomes. 
For safety analyses the protocol and the SAP are contradictory. The protocol states that “Rate of 
biopsy-proven or clinically treated rejection will be compared between the two groups using Chi-
squared or Fisher’s exact test.” The SAP states that “No statistical comparison between placebo and 
Spikevax are planned” and does not give any details on how transplant rejections will be treated. 
Immunogenicity analyses were performed in a “per protocol” population. No imputation for missing 
values was pre-specified or performed. Given that drop-outs only occurred in the placebo group this 
can be considered acceptable in this case as any sensible imputation strategy would increase the 
difference between groups in that case.  
Overall, the conducted analyses seem acceptable. 
Conduct of the study and baseline characteristics 
Participants Flow  
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 9/29 
 
 
 
 
 
Demography 
No patient had a previous diagnosis of COVID-19. The median age of the patients was 66.9 years 
(64.0 – 71.8) in the mRNA-1273 vaccine group and 65.9 years (62.9 – 70.3) in the placebo group. The 
median time from transplantation to the third dose was 3.57 (1.99 – 6.75) and 2.20 (1.44 – 5.55) 
years in the two groups, respectively. One subject each in the two groups had experienced an organ 
rejection within the preceding 3 months. An overview of demography for subjects in the vaccine and 
the placebo group including kind of transplant and the immunosuppressive therapy used is provided in 
Table 1. 
Table 1: Patient characteristics at enrolment, mRNA-1273 vaccine vs placebo groups 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 10/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP`s comment: 
The kind of organ transplants slightly differed in the two groups. The immunosuppressive therapy was 
in general comparable, as well as lymphocyte count at time of intervention. In both groups more males 
than females were enrolled. One subject each in the two groups had experienced an organ rejection 
within the preceding 3 months. 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 11/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Clinical Efficacy aspects 
3.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Assessment of SARS-CoV-2 status 
Although a previous diagnosis of COVID-19 was an exclusion criteria, in order to further confirm that 
measured immune responses were not due to natural infection, post-third dose sera were tested for 
anti-nucleocapsid protein antibody. The nucleocapsid protein is not encoded by the vaccine and thus a 
positive result due to vaccination is not expected. Testing was done using a commercially available 
chemiluminescent microparticle immunoassay (Abbott Laboratories, USA) as per manufacturer’s 
instructions. As recommended by the manufacturer, an index measurement of ≥1.4 was considered 
positive. 
Assessment of the antibody responses 
Antibody levels were determined prior to the intervention as a baseline (preintervention antibody level) 
and following administration of a third dose. Sera were collected 4±1 weeks after the third dose of 
vaccine. The primary endpoint was defined as the percentage of patients that achieve a threshold 
response (i.e. a positive response) following vaccination.  
Anti-spike receptor binding domain antibodies (anti-RBD) were measured using the Roche Elecsys anti-
SARS-CoV-2 S enzyme immunoassay. This assay is a double-antigen sandwich 
electrochemiluminescence immunoassay that quantitatively detects antibodies to RBD of the spike 
protein. It has a lower limit of detection (LOD) of 0.4 U/mL although positive detection is defined as ≥ 
0.8 U/mL. Testing was performed as per manufacturer’s instructions in a certified biochemistry 
laboratory. 
A serologic response characterised by an anti–receptor-binding domain (RBD) antibody level of at least 
100 U/ml at month 4 was prespecified in the protocol as threshold of a positive antibody response. 
This cut-off was based on the protective anti-RBD titer determined in a challenge study involving 
nonhuman primates (McMahan et al. Nature 2021). A anti-RBD ELISA titer of approximately 100 U/ml 
was required for protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection. 
Moreover, use of this threshold was further justified by published data from Khoury et al. (Nature 
2021) that looked at correlates of protection in a large cohort, validating the primary endpoint as the 
upper bound of the estimated 95% CI that correlates with 50% protective neutralisation. They 
estimated a 50% protective neutralisation level equates to approximately an anti-RBD titer of 54 U/ml 
with a 95% CI 30-96 U/ml. This validates our primary endpoint as the upper bound of the estimated 
95% confidence interval that correlates with 50% protective neutralisation. Marinelli et al. in their 
prospective cohort study found a median convalescent anti-RBD antibody titre of 64.3 U/ml 
(interquartile range (IQR) 5.7 – 185) in solid organ transplant patients infected with COVID-19. 
CHMP’s comment: 
As this assay was not employed in the clinical evaluation of the pivotal study for approval of Spikevax 
the study results do not allow to draw any conclusions on the vaccine efficacy of a third dose of 
Spikevax in patients under immune suppression. Moreover, no internationally recognised 
immunological surrogate of protection is yet established.  
Published data by Riester et al, 2021 on independent performance evaluation of the Elecsys anti-SARS-
CoV-2 S enzyme immunoassay using presumed negative samples collected prior October 2019 
(n=7880) and samples from SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR positive individuals (n=240) indicate a high 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 12/29 
 
 
 
sensitivity (97.92%; 95% CI: 95.21–99.32) and specificity (99.95%; 95% CI: 99.87–99.99) for the 
detection of anti-Spike antibodies. The range of anti-RDB antibody responses observed and the decline 
of antibodies in convalescent sera over time (sequential samples) were provided (see below).  
Longitudinal antibody titers of all subjects. Concentration of anti-S SARS-CoV-2 602 antibodies, as measured 
by the Elecsys Anti-S SARS-CoV-2 S immunoassay, over time (days 0 to 78) 603 in sequential samples from all 
study sites. Each grey circle represents a different data point, with 604 darker circles representing overlapping data 
points. The solid blue line represents the combined curve 605 and the blue dashed lines represent the upper and 
lower confidence limits. The red dashed line indicates the assay cut-off limit (0.80 U/mL). 
In conclusion, it was found that the Elecsys anti-SARS-CoV-2 S enzyme immunoassay provides reliable 
results on anti-RDB antibody concentrations. 
During the trial, a surrogate virus neutralisation assay became available in Canada and was added as a 
secondary endpoint before any post-third dose sera was collected. Neutralising antibodies were 
assessed via the SARS-CoV-2 Surrogate Virus Neutralization Test (SVNT) assay (GenScript), according 
to the manufacturer’s specifications. The assay was originally described by Tan et al. in Nature 
Biotechnology and has been used in several peer-reviewed studies to assess neutralising antibodies. 
This assay has received emergency use authorisation from the FDA. Briefly, serum is incubated with 
horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated spike-RBD and transferred to ACE2 coated wells. 
Neutralising antibodies present in serum will inhibit RBD-ACE2 interactions. The assay provides the 
percent neutralisation, with <30% classified as negative; 30-100% represents a range of low-to-high 
neutralisation ability. The negative and positive percent agreement with conventional plaque reduction 
neutralisation test (PRNT)50 and PRNT90 assays is approximately 100%. The manufacturer reported 
sensitivity and specificity for the assay is 93.80% and 99.4%, respectively. 
CHMP’s comment: 
The SARS-CoV-2 surrogate virus neutralisation (SVNT) assay is not a classical cell-based neutralisation 
assay measuring the ability of antibodies to inhibit infection of SARS-CoV-2 or pseudovirions of cells 
but is based on antibody-mediated blockage of the interaction between the angiotensin-converting 
enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor protein and the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein. The read out 
is semi-quantitative and no specific neutralising ab titers were determined. 
An independent evaluation of the robustness, specificity and sensitivity of the SVNT assay was 
performed on a panel of sera from 269 PCR-confirmed COVID-19 cases and 259 unmatched samples 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 13/29 
 
 
 
 
collected before 2020 and compared it to cell-based neutralisation assays (ref to Meyer et al. 2021, 
https://doi.org/10.1080/22221751.2020.1835448). Comparison with cell-based neutralisation assays 
determined an analytical sensitivity of 74.3 (56.4–86.9) and 98.2 (89.4–99.9) for titres ≥10 to <40 
and ≥40 to <160, respectively. While samples with a PNT50/VNT5O neutralising titre of <10 were 
found positive in the SVNT, some samples with a neutralising antibody titre of ≥10-<160 as measured 
by PNT50/VNT50 were determined negative in the SVNT. Only samples with a titre of ≥160 as 
measured in cell-based assays (PNT50/VNT50) were consistently positive in the SVNT.  
In this study, % inhibition measured by the SVNT showed a moderate correlation with the cell-based 
assays PNT50 and VNT50 titres with R2 values of 0.4937 and 0.6548, respectively. This is considerably 
lower than the correlation found in the study by Tan et al. which reported a R2 of 0.8374 for a 
pseudovirus-based assay and 0.8591 for a conventional virus neutralisation assay. It should be noted 
that in the study by Tan et al. the half-maximum inhibitory concentration was determined by the SVNT 
instead of the % inhibition as calculated by Meyer et al. and as determined in the clinical study by Hall 
et al. Furthermore, the SVNT measures only neutralising antibodies directed against the RBD and not 
all neutralising antibodies directed against the full-length spike protein.  
In conclusion, neutralising antibody responses based on the % inhibition as measured by the SVNT are 
of limited value and do not allow any meaningful interpretation of the neutralising antibody results 
reported by Hall et al. 
T-Cell mediated immunity assessment 
As a pre-specified secondary outcome, SARS-CoV-2 specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses were 
assessed pre and post intervention in patients who consented for additional blood. According to the 
authors methods have previously been validated using healthy controls post-vaccine and post-recovery 
from COVID-19 infection samples. Briefly, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated 
from whole blood and cryopreserved for batch testing. For testing, a total of 106 PBMCs were rested for 
two hours and incubated with overlapping peptides encompassing the full SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. 
Peptides consisted mainly of 15-mer sequences with 11 amino acid overlaps (PepTivator, Miltenyi 
Biotec)(final concentration of 5 µg/mL per peptide). Cells were incubated overnight with peptides, a 
CD28/CD49d co-stimulatory antibody cocktail (BD Biosciences) and a protein transport inhibitor to 
prevent cytokine release (ThermoFisher Scientific). Intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) was used to 
measure the frequency of spike-specific T-cells. IFN-γ and IL-2 were used as the markers for this 
study, as has been also reported with other mRNA-1273 vaccine studies. The positive control was 
PMA/ionomycin and the negative (media) control was cells treated with media alone. Following 
overnight incubation at 37°C, PBMCs were stained with a viability dye (Zombie Aqua, Biolegend), Fc 
blocked (BD Biosciences) and incubated with a surface marker antibodies (CD3, CD4, CD8). Cells were 
then fixed, permeabilised and incubated with antibodies for intracellular markers (IFN-γ, and IL-2). 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 14/29 
 
 
 
  
Flow cytometry was performed on an LSR II BGRV (BD Biosciences) instrument. A representative 
gating strategy and a patient with a positive CD4+ and a negative CD8+ response is shown in the 
supplementary information. As a robust, validated, yet conservative measure of vaccine-induced T-cell 
responses, frequencies of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells that expressed two cytokines (IFN-γ and IL-2 
positive; after subtraction of concurrent untreated comparator) were specifically measured. A 
minimum number of 100,000 live, CD3+ T-cells were required for samples to be included in the flow 
analysis. 
3.2.  Results 
At month 4, an anti-RBD antibody level of at least 100 U per millilitre was present in 33 of 60 patients 
(55%) in the mRNA-1273 group and in 10 of 57 patients (18%) in the placebo group (relative risk, 
3.1; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.7 to 5.8; P<0.001) (Figure 1A and Table 2). The changes in anti-
RBD antibody levels from before to after the third dose are shown in Figure 1B. The mean anti-RBD 
antibody concentration was significantly higher in the group of IC patients having received a third dose 
of Spikevax compared to the control group having received placebo (GMC: 3145 U/ml vs 86 U/ml). The 
mean fold change was 75 times as high in the Spikevax group vs. the placebo group (95%CI: 21-220). 
After the third dose, the median percent virus neutralisation was 71% in the mRNA-1273 group and 
13% in the placebo group (95% CI for the between-group difference, 11 to 76 percentage points), and 
the percentage of patients above the 30% threshold for neutralising antibody positivity was 60% and 
25%, respectively (relative risk, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.5 to 4.0) (Figure 1C and Table 2).  
Median severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)–specific T-cell counts were 
greater after the third dose in the mRNA-1273 group than in the placebo group (432 vs. 67 cells per 
106 CD4+ T cells; 95% CI for the between-group difference, 46 to 986) (Figure 1D). There was a 
minimal polyfunctional CD8+ T-cell response in both groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 15/29 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 . Immune Responses in Transplant Recipients Who Received a Third Dose of mRNA-1273 or 
Placebo. 
Panel A shows the anti–receptor-binding domain (RBD) antibody levels in the mRNA-1273 group (60  
patients) and the placebo group (57 patients) after the third dose. Each point represents an individual patient, and 
horizontal lines indicate the median. The dotted line indicates the threshold value of 100 U per millilitre. Values 
below the detection limit are plotted as 0.2 U per millilitre.  
Panel B shows the anti-RBD antibody levels before and after the third dose.  
Panel C shows box-and-whisker plots of the percent neutralisation before and after the third dose. The whiskers 
indicate the range, the top and bottom of the boxes indicate the interquartile range, and the horizontal line within 
each box indicates the median. The dotted line indicates the 30% threshold for neutralising antibody positivity.  
Panel D shows the polyfunctional CD4+ T-cell response (i.e., cells producing both interleukin-2 and interferon-γ) 
before and after the third dose in the mRNA-1273 group (34 patients) and the placebo group (31 patients). 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 16/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Immunogenicity outcomes comparing a third dose of mRNA-1273 vs. placebo 
Outcome 
mRNA-1273 
n=60 
Placebo 
N=57 
Comparison and 95% 
confidence interval* 
Anti-RBD ≥100 U/ml post-dose 3 
33 (55.0%) 
10 (17.5%) 
RR 3.1 (1.7-5.8) unadjusted; 
Absolute anti-RBD titer (U/ml) post 
dose 3; 
mean (SD), median [IQR] 
Anti-nucleocapsid antibody post-
dose 3 positive; 
n (%) 
Positive surrogate virus 
neutralization assay post-dose 3
(threshold ≥30%) 
RR 2.9; (2.0-4.7) adjusted for 
baseline anti-RBD 
Ratio of means: 
3145 (7517) 
86 (231) 
36.5 (12.9-94) 
313.8 [0.2-2191] 
1.19 [0.2-63.4] 
0 (0%) 
1(1.8%)** 
36 (60.0%) 
14 (24.6%) 
RR 2.4 (1.5-4.0) 
*Widths of confidence intervals have not been adjusted for multiplicity and cannot be used to infer treatment 
effects for secondary outcomes. 
**Borderline positive anti-nucleocapsid antibody level (1.56 U/ml); Patient had positive anti-RBD titer (>100 U/ml) 
both pre-and post-dose 3. 
Figure 2 : Fold-change in anti-RBD titer for placebo and mRNA-1273 groups. For calculation of fold-
change, values below the threshold were assigned a value of 0.2 U/ml. The mean fold change was 75 
times as high in the treatment arm vs. the placebo arm (95%CI: 21-220).* Horizontal lines in box 
represent median fold change. *Widths of confidence intervals have not been adjusted for multiplicity 
and cannot be used to infer treatment effects for secondary outcomes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 17/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP’s comment: 
The study authors kindly provided further data on the immunogenicity assessment. Approximately half 
of the subjects having received a third dose of Spikevax did not achieve a titer above 100 U/ml, i.e., 
did not respond to it (27/60), while 10 out of 60 subjects had anti-RDB-titers of ≥100-<1000 U/ml and 
23/60 immunocompromised (IC) patients developed anti-RBD titers of ≥ 1000 U/ml. In the placebo 
group 8/57 IC subjects had anti-RDB titers of ≥100-<1000 U/ml and only 2 IC subjects had still an 
antibody response of ≥1000 U/ml. Of note, one subject in the placebo group had evidence of a prior 
SARS-CoV-2 infection as determined by anti-NC antibodies and for 3 subjects no immunogenicity 
results were available. 
3.3.  Discussion 
Immunogenicity of Spikevax in immunocompromised (IC) patients was assessed in a randomised, 
placebo-controlled trial conducted in Canada by Kumar and colleagues. The study results were 
published by Hall et al, 2021. In this study 243 IC patients were enrolled and of those 120 randomised 
to receive either a third dose of Spikevax or placebo, respectively, within 2 months. No control arm of 
healthy individuals was included.  
The trial was not planned with the usual standards of pivotal trials but was conducted and analysed 
seemingly in an acceptable manner. Although no correlate of protection is yet established the 
immunogenicity data reported by Hall et al. suggest that a third dose of Spikevax is able to elicit a 
pronounced antibody response in a substantial number IC patients at risk for severe COVID-19. IC 
patients having received a third dose of Spikevax were compared to IC patients treated with placebo. 
Prior to the third dose 11.7% in the vaccine group and 8.8% in the placebo group had anti-RBD-
antibody titers ≥100 U/ml, an antibody response considered by the investigators as seropositive. The 
median anti-RBD titre reported for both groups was low with 0.37 U/ml (IQR: 0.2-27.64) for the 
Spikevax group and 0.44 U/ml (IQR: 0.2-18.19) for the placebo group. Following administration of a 
third dose of Spikevax a significant rise in antibodies was observed with 55% of the IC patients 
showing at least an antibody titer of 100 U/ml with a calculated mean anti-RBD titer of 3145 U/ml 
(median: 313.8 U/ml, IQR: 0.2-2191). In the placebo group only 17.5% of IC patients had antibodies 
≥100 U/ml and a GMC of 86 U/ml (median: 1.19 U/ml, IQR: 0.2-63.4) was reported. 
Data from routine vaccination of healthcare workers (HCW) with a standard 2-dose regimen suggest 
that the level of anti-RDB antibody response achieved in IC patients following a third dose of Spikevax 
is in the same range as in the healthy population post-second dose. Steensels et al., 2021 compared 
the humoral immune response following vaccination of 1647 HCW with mRNA vaccines including 
Spikevax. In this prospective study the antibody responses were evaluated 6 to 10 weeks after they 
received a second dose using the Elecsys anti-SARS-CoV-2 S enzyme immunoassay. In total, 688 
individuals were vaccinated with Spikevax (mRNA-1273: mean age, 43.2 years; 76.7% women; 21.8% 
previously infected with SARS-CoV-2). Post-second dose a GMT of 3836 U/mL [95%CI, 3586-4104] 
was determined for individuals having received two doses of Spikevax. Further evaluation according to 
baseline status showed that previously uninfected individuals had lower antibody responses compared 
with previously infected individuals (GMT: 2881 U/mL, 95% CI, 2721-3051 and 10708 U/mL 95% 
CI,9311-12 315, respectively). 
Currently no data are available, however, on the duration of the antibody response in IC patients 
following a third dose or whether it correlates with a higher chance to prevent serious disease.  
As no immune correlate of protection exists to infer vaccine efficacy so far, the interpretation of the 
available immunogenicity results based on anti-RDB antibody responses is limited. The assay does not 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 18/29 
 
 
 
measure the antibody response to the full-length spike protein, nor does it provide information on the 
neutralising capacity of the immune response. Results provided by Hall et al. on the neutralising 
antibody responses in IC patients following a third dose were not determined with a standard cell-
based assay but a semiquantitative surrogate assay. The SNVT assay has various flaws and limitations 
and therefore the data provided should be interpreted with caution. The results provide no additional 
value to conclude on the benefit of a third dose.  
In conclusion, the limited published data on the immunogenicity in solid organ transplant recipients 
cannot provide direct estimates of the protective benefit of a third dose of Spikevax in patients under 
immunosuppressant therapy.  
No immunogenicity data are available on other immunocompromised patients, i.e. due to specific 
therapies or due to hereditary immunodeficiencies. B cell targeted therapies have a strong but 
selective impact on antibody responses that might not be overcome by additional doses for primary 
immunisation. 
Although, in this study the third dose was given 2 months after the second dose, a time interval of at 
least 28 days would be more appropriate considering the high number of no and low responders in 
immunocompromised and their high risk of serious complications following a SARS-CoV-2 infection.  
4.  Clinical Safety aspects 
4.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Data on safety of a third dose of Spikevax in solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients are derived from 
the published placebo controlled trial.  
Pertinent exclusion criteria were: 1) within 1-month post-transplant, 2) had a febrile illness within 1-
week prior, 3) previous microbiologically confirmed COVID-19 infection, 4) active cytomegalovirus 
(CMV) infection, 5) received intravenous immunoglobulin in the 4 weeks prior, 6) received rituximab in 
the last 6 months, 7) had treatment for acute rejection in the 30 days prior, and 8) an allergic reaction 
to the previous mRNA-1273 vaccination.  
Immunosuppressive treatment was adapted according to standard practise also during the trial 
(information by one of the authors in teleconference). 
Safety assessments included reporting of local or systemic AE by the vaccinee via a diary each day for 
7 days after injection. Thereafter patients were followed every 2 weeks for up to 3 months after the 
third Spikevax or placebo dose. They were called by telephone every 2 weeks to determine whether 
they were diagnosed with COVID or if they have any COVID-related symptoms (fever, cough, 
myalgias, sore throat, runny nose, diarrhoea, shortness of breath). Participants were reminded to let 
the study team know immediately if they had been diagnosed with COVID. Non-routine health-care 
contacts including hospitalisation and the reasons for these healthcare visits were recorded every two 
weeks up to 3 months post-vaccination. These were to be judged as related or unrelated to vaccine 
according to investigator judgement. In addition, within the phone calls and chart review episodes of 
acute organ rejection and whether a biopsy was done, and whether rejection treatment was started 
was recorded. Rate of biopsy-proven or clinically treated rejection will be compared between the two 
groups. Passive follow-up was planned to occur from 3 to 9 months after the third dose of Spikevax or 
placebo (i.e. from 6 to 12 months post-first dose). 
Adverse events were categorised by the Food and Drug Administration toxicity grading scale for 
volunteers in vaccine trials: 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 19/29 
 
 
 
•  grade 1 (no interference in daily activities) 
•  grade 2 (some interference in daily activities) 
•  grade 3 (participants unable to perform daily activities) 
•  grade 4 (potentially life threatening) 
CHMP’s Comment 
The reason for the SOT is unknown in the included population. Therefore, any interaction of underlying 
disease (e.g. autoimmune disease) is unknown. From the specified exclusion criteria, it is apparent 
that only a fairly stable population after solid organ transplantation was eligible for the trial. 
4.2.  Results 
Safety data are available for n=60 subjects in the Spikevax group and for n=59 subjects in the placebo 
group. 
Patient characteristics as regards immunosuppressive treatment is shown in the following table (from 
supplement to publication).  
Table 3: Patient characteristics 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 20/29 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP’s comment 
The trial population involves only individuals after solid organ transplantation that are 
immunosuppressed by commonly used immunosuppressive regimen consisting of glucocorticoids, 
calcineurin-inhibitors and antimetabolites. Thus, any conclusions on the safety of a third dose of 
Spikevax in immune-compromised individuals other than the studied populations rely on a full 
extrapolation without support by data. From a safety perspective it is unknown how e.g. hereditary 
immunodeficiencies and medically induced immunodeficiencies using other treatments would behave. 
It is also likely that the underlying disease that is the reason for the medical immuno-suppression is 
important for judging safety. 
Local and systemic adverse events 4 weeks post-third dose are presented in the following table. No 
grade 3 or 4 adverse events were reported. According to the publication, no clinically treated or biopsy 
proven rejection events occurred. 
SAE and deaths 
There is no mentioning of SAE in the publication. On request the authors provided the following 
information: 
“There were medical visits for the following reasons during the 4 weeks post-intervention: patients 
sought outpatient medical attention for diverticulitis (n=1; placebo), blurry vision (n=1; placebo). 
Hospitalisation occurred in three patients in the placebo arm, one each for COVID-19 infection, fall, 
gastrointestinal bleed.” 
CHMP’s comment 
The duration of data collection overall is not entirely clear and the safety database is limited. Strength 
of this dataset is the randomised comparison to placebo. 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 21/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AE overall were grade 1 and 2 of the chosen scale which could be considered acceptable as regards 
severity. No information is available on the duration and reversibility of the AE so it can only be 
assumed that they were fully reversible. As with any medicinal product that relies on unspecific 
elements of immune system stimulation this could lead to rejection in SOT, thus it is important to note 
that no rejection episodes were observed.  
Three SAE (hospitalisation events) were recorded that occurred in the placebo arm. No deaths were 
observed. 
An evaluation of safety in other immune-compromised individuals was not part of this submission. 
4.3.  Discussion 
Given that generally the observed reactogenicity is a function of a working immune system there is a 
priori no specific safety concern related to vaccination of a normally immune-competent individual that 
is medically immune-suppressed. The limited dataset in this application and the observed AE appear to 
support this assumption. 
This reasoning would also apply to the immunisation of individuals with malignancies that cause 
immuno-compromise per se and that is caused in addition by the administered oncologic therapy (with 
the possibly important exception of checkpoint inhibitors). A survey of safety of mRNA vaccines in 
patients with haematological malignancies did not indicate vast differences in the different safety 
profile compared to healthy subjects (https://www.lls.org/news/covid-19-vaccine-safety-among-blood-
cancer-patients). A specific concern in some haematological malignancies is lymphadenopathy 
following vaccination (observed in 5% of the above survey) that either indicate disease or could be an 
AE to vaccination. Only reversibility would indicate that this is more likely related to vaccination.  
The situation is considered to be different in auto-immune or auto-inflammatory diseases that are 
pharmacologically immuno-suppressed. Here the inflammatory stimulus by the vaccine could cause a 
flare of the underlying disease. Since the concept of mRNA vaccination is relatively new, the 
experience in these conditions is clearly limited at the present point in time. One prospective cohort 
study of patients with autoimmune disease under immunosuppressive therapy was conducted (Conolly 
et al. 2021). This study included individuals who reported receipt of a single booster dose of SARS-
CoV-2 mRNA or adenovirus vector vaccine between 10 April and 11 June 2021. The publication 
however does not comment on safety. A recently conducted survey in SLE patients suggests that there 
is no high risk of flare induced by mRNA vaccination 
(https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanrhe/article/PIIS2665-9913%2821%2900221-6/fulltext). 
However, in 3% of the patients AE were observed that were judged to be consistent with a flare. 
Without concomitant control it is difficult to evaluate this finding. A third dose was not used in this 
population and thus no specific information is available. Therefore, any decision on a third dose in 
these populations should factor in type of immunosuppression and severity of underlying disease. 
Other means of pharmacological immune-suppression involve neutralisation of cytokines such as TNF-
alpha, IL-6, IL-1beta, IL-12, IL-23 etc by monoclonal antibodies, depleting antibodies such as 
rituximab, antimetabolites such as methotrexate and inhibitors of the JAK-STAT signalling pathway. No 
information on the safety in patients treated with these types of medicinal products has been 
submitted and as outlined above the underlying disease may be an important modifier that has to be 
considered for safety. It should be noted that e.g. under therapy with TNF-alpha inhibitors paradoxical 
auto-immune phenomena have been observed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 22/29 
 
 
 
Hereditary immunodeficiencies are most often caused by changes to the function of different 
components of adaptive immune system that ultimately lead to impaired immune responses. No 
information on safety of Spikevax in these populations has been submitted. 
Altogether the submitted documentation is severely limited especially with regard to the different 
populations of immunocompromised patients, no new safety signals were observed. The MAH provided 
a high-level overview of the available literature on the safety of a third dose of Spikevax as part of a 
primary series in immunocompromised individuals. All published literature refers to solid organ 
recipients and no safety data for Spikevax in patients with other types of immunocompromise is 
available.  
5.  Changes to the Product Information 
As a result of this variation, sections 4.2 and 4.4 of the SmPC are being updated to introduce a third 
dose of Spikevax in the primary vaccination schedule for individuals 12 years of age and older who are 
severely immunocompromised. The Package Leaflet (PL) is updated accordingly (see Attachment 1). 
6.  Request for supplementary information 
6.1.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
The MAH should provide a high level overview of the available literature for the safety of a third dose 
in immune-compromised individuals to support extrapolation to other types of immune-compromise. 
7.  Assessment of the responses to the request for 
supplementary information 
7.1.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
Question  
The MAH should provide a high level overview of the available literature for the safety of a third dose 
in immune-compromised individuals to support extrapolation to other types of immune-compromise. 
Summary of the MAH’s response 
The MAH conducted a literature search for publications containing safety data for the third dose of 
mRNA SARS CoV-2 vaccine in immunocompromised patients which identified nine articles. Currently, 
there are limited data available from the publications and all publication concern SOT recipients. Four 
publications describe expected reactogenicity, and almost all commented on the acceptable safety 
profile or tolerability at a high level; however, most of the data focused on immunogenicity not safety. 
Four articles were letters to the editor with study data, two were preprint, and one was “Observations: 
case reports”. Four articles presented third dose data for Spikevax, and one study described the third 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 23/29 
 
 
 
dose of Spikevax administered after a primary series of Comirnaty (BNT162b2, Pfizer/BioNTech), and 
another study presented data on mix-and match vaccine administration including the Janssen COVID-
19 vaccine. 
On a monthly basis, the MAH reviews and summarises the literature and the data from the MAH’s 
global safety database for both immunocompromised (defined by medical history and medications) and 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 24/29 
 
 
 
 
autoimmune/inflammatory disease subpopulations. This information is reported in the MSSRs, and the 
MAH presented a cumulative review in the PBRER (provided on 26 August 2021). In MSSR #8 
(provided on 15 September 2021), a subsection was provided for third dose AE reports on both 
subpopulations. 
Assessment of the MAH’s response 
Safety 
The MAH conducted a literature search for publications containing safety data for the third dose of 
mRNA SARS CoV-2 vaccine in immunocompromised patients and submitted the findings subsequently 
after request. All publications refer to SOT recipients and no safety data for Spikevax in patients with 
other types of immunosuppression are available. 
One study evaluates a third dose of Comirnaty in in maintenance haemodialysis patients (Espi et al. 
2021). The objective of this observational study was to evaluate the protection of MHD patients against 
COVID-19 after two doses of BNT162b2, and the safety and impact on immune responses of a third 
dose. A third dose of BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine was offered to all 66 MHD patients with suboptimal 
anti-RBD IgG response and effectively administered to 56 of them. The lowest titer observed in a 
cohort of 30 healthy volunteers was therefore taken as reference for suboptimal immune response and 
to vaccine and immune response in MHD patients was considered optimal or sub-optimal (n=66/106, 
62.3%) depending whether the titer of anti-RBD IgG was respectively superior or equal, or inferior to 
this value. Administration of a third dose was not limited to MHD patients with suboptimal anti-RBD 
IgG titers, and 19 MHD patients with optimal IgG response also accepted a third vaccine dose. The 
authors found, that although, the safety of the third dose of BNT162b2 vaccine was excellent and 
comparable to that of the 2-dose schedule with no critical local or systemic side-effect reported, the 
tolerance was worst in patients with already optimal humoral response, who did not improve 
significantly their immune response against the spike protein of SARS-Cov-2 after this additional 
injection. In contrast, after a third dose, 2/3 of MHD patients with suboptimal response after two doses 
experienced an increase of anti-RBD-IgG titer up to optimal level and/or the appearance of spike-
specific CD8+ T cells. 
One case-series, published by Werbel et al. reported one case of organ rejection. One heart transplant 
recipient had biopsy-proven, antibody-mediated rejection 7 days after the third dose of vaccine in the 
setting of acute volume overload. The patient did not experience an increase in the titer of antibodies 
against the spike protein, heart function remained normal, and immunosuppressive intensification was 
not initiated. The vaccine is not specified in the publication and no further clinical information is 
available. The objective of the trial was to describe antibody responses and vaccine reactions in 
recipients of solid organ transplants who had a suboptimal response to standard vaccination and 
subsequently received a third dose of vaccine. The definition for suboptimal immune response is not 
specified in the publication. Overall, 30 patients reported a third vaccination, but only 3 of them 
received three doses of Spikevax. Taking the risk of poor outcome after COVID-19 infection in the 
severely immunocompromised patients into account this single case of organ rejection with only very 
limited clinical information available would not alter the benefit-risk assessment of a third dose.  
The very limited safety data in the publications do not reveal any safety concern with regard to a third 
dose of mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in severely immunocompromised individuals. 
In MSSR #8 (provided on 15 September 2021), a subsection was provided for third dose of Spikevax. 
Here 2 cases of myocarditis were recorded after a third dose. 
One case occurred in a  30-39-year-old  patient  with  past  medical  history  included recurrent urinary 
infections and Stem cell transplant in 2020. Concurrent medical conditions included chromosomal 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 25/29 
 
 
 
disorder since July  2020  and  Immunodeficiency.  On  Day 0,  the  patient  received  first  dose  of 
Spikevax;  on  Day 28,  received  second  dose of  Spikevax,  and  on  Day 122,  received  third  dose  of 
Spikevax. Five days later the patient was diagnosed with Pericarditis and Myocarditis. Laboratory 
results showed elevated troponin and EKG with diffuse ST elevation  without defined territory. No other 
information was provided. 
The second case was a 50-59 years old with concurrent medical history of  essential  hypertension and 
hyperlipidaemia, and concomitant medications of lisinopril and rosuvastatin, who the same day after 
receiving the third dose of Spikevax experienced left arm tingling, left shoulder pain, then chest pain 
that became severe enough the patient had to pull to the side of the road. Had diaphoresis, dyspnoea, 
pre-syncope. The patient received a first Comirnaty dose on Day 0 then a second Comirnaty dose on 
Day 26 and had a booster dose with Spikevax on Day 220.  The patient had full cardiac workup, d-dimer, 
chest x-ray but results  were not provided, Patient had a cardiac catheterisation which was normal. No 
relief  in  symptoms  with  narcotics,  nitroglycerin,  etc.  Post  catheterisation,  given  ketorolac  with 
significant  relief.  Diagnosed with Pericarditis. No  other  information  was  provided.  This  case  is 
classified  as  Level  4  diagnostic  according to the Brighton Collaboration case classification. 
Considering the time to onset, a myocarditis related to vaccination is unlikely. 
Currently, it is not possible to estimate whether there is an increased risk of developing myocarditis or 
pericarditis after a 3-dose schedule compared with a 2-dose schedule.  
In summary, the subsequently submitted information do not provide safety information for a third dose 
of Spikevax in individuals with immunosuppression not related to SOT. The very limited safety data so 
far do not raise safety concerns with regard to a third dose of mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in severely 
immunocompromised individuals. 
Immunogenicity 
Upon request the MAH referenced four further publications, which report immunogenicity results 
following a third dose of Spikevax in immunocompromised patients or patients with autoimmune and 
inflammatory diseases (Werbel et al. 2021, Benotmane et al. 2021, Westhoff et al. 2021, Connolly et 
al. 2021).  
Werbel et al. 2021 evaluated the immune response in SOT recipients following a third dose of Spikevax 
after completion of the initial 2-dose vaccination regimen. In this case series, however, only three out 
of 30 patients received three doses of Spikevax within 60-101 days, while the others received different 
combinations of COVID-19 vaccines. Two different serological assays were used to determine the 
antibody responses in SOT patients, but no comprehensive information is available, which one was 
used for these subjects. The concentrations given suggest, that one of the two low responders 
developed a strong antibody response, while the other did not respond.  
Benotmane et al. investigated the immune response following a third dose of Spikevax in 159 kidney 
transplant recipients having received mRNA vaccines in the primary vaccination series. This study 
found that a third dose of Spikevax induced a serologic response (anti-RBD-antibodies) in 49% of 
kidney transplant recipients who did not respond after two doses. However, no analysis according to 
the vaccine used for the initial 2-dose vaccination series is provided. Interestingly, it was reported that 
patients taking tacrolimus, mycophenolate, and steroids were less likely to develop anti–SARS-CoV-2 
antibodies than those treated with other regimens.  
Westhoff et al. evaluated the immune response in 10 renal transplant recipients having received a 
heterologous vaccination regimen, i.e. Spikevax was given as a third dose only.  
In the publication of Connolly et al. (case series) 18 patients with autoimmune and inflammatory 
diseases received each a third dose of a COVID-19 vaccine (either heterologous or homologous 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 26/29 
 
 
 
regimens employing mRNA and vector-based vaccines). Out of these 18 patients only 3 patients 
received three doses of Spikevax. One patient had myositis and 2 had autoimmune hepatitis and all of 
them were on immunosuppressant therapy (combination or monotherapy). Anti-spike antibodies, 
evaluated by the Roche Elecsys anti-RBD pan-Ig were found low to high positive (anti-RBD 
concentration: 2.7 U/ml, 260 U/ml and 825.8 U/ml respectively) after completion of the initial vaccine 
series and developed high antibody concentrations of >2500 U/ml after the third dose. The time 
interval between the second and the third dose was 85-96 days. 
In conclusion, information on the immunogenicity following a 3-dose Spikevax vaccination regimen in 
immunocompromised subjects other than solid organ transplant recipients is very scarce and has no 
added value for the benefit-risk assessment. 
Conclusion 
Overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance has/have been updated accordingly 
No need to update overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance  
8.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit-risk balance 
The MAH seeks approval of a third dose of Spikevax (also referred to as mRNA-1273) in the primary 
vaccination schedule for immunocompromised individuals, based on limited published data from one 
clinical trial (PREVent-COVID) conducted in solid organ transplant recipients in Canada. The study 
results were published by Hall et al., 2021.  
No data are currently available from the ongoing post authorisation Phase 3b study initiated by the 
MAH in solid organ transplant recipients and healthy controls to assess the safety and immunogenicity 
of Spikevax in immunocompromised adults aged 18 years and older as agreed during the initial 
approval in the RMP.  
Immunogenicity 
The PREVent-COVID-19 study is a randomised, placebo-controlled, double blind study of transplant 
recipients. 120 adult solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients who were stable outpatients with 
functioning allograft and who have already received both doses of Spikevax at 0 and 1 months have 
been enrolled in the study to either receive a third dose of Spikevax or placebo, respectively. 
Immunogenicity of Spikevax in immunocompromised (IC) patients was assessed by two serological 
assays. Although the trial was not planned with the usual standards of pivotal trials, it was conducted 
and analysed seemingly in an acceptable manner. The data reported suggest that a third dose of 
Spikevax is able to elicit a pronounced antibody response in a substantial number of IC patients at risk 
for severe COVID-19 (a significant rise in antibodies was observed with 55% of the IC patients 
showing at least an antibody titer of 100 U/ml, compared to 17.5% in the placebo group). And data 
from routine vaccination of healthcare workers with a standard 2-dose regimen suggest that the level 
of anti-receptor-binding domain (RBD) antibody response achieved in IC patients following a third dose 
of Spikevax is in the same range as in the healthy population post-second dose. However, as no 
immune correlate of protection exists so far to infer vaccine efficacy, the interpretation of the available 
immunogenicity results based on anti-RBD antibody responses is limited. The assay does not measure 
the antibody response to the full-length spike protein, nor does it provide information on the 
neutralising capacity of the immune response. Results provided on the neutralising antibody responses 
in IC patients following a third dose were not determined with a standard cell-based assay but a 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 27/29 
 
 
 
semiquantitative surrogate assay. This surrogate assay has various flaws and limitations and the 
results provide no additional value to conclude on the benefit of a third dose.  
No data are available on the duration of the antibody response in IC patients following a third dose or 
whether the immune response elicited by a third dose correlates with a higher chance to prevent 
serious disease.  
In conclusion, the limited published data on the immunogenicity in solid organ transplant recipients 
cannot provide direct estimates of the protective benefit of a third dose of Spikevax in patients under 
immunosuppressant therapy.  
No immunogenicity data are available on other cohorts of immunocompromised patients, i.e. with 
specific medical therapies or due to hereditary immunodeficiencies. B cell targeted therapies have a 
strong but selective impact on antibody responses that might not be overcome by additional doses for 
primary immunisation. 
Safety 
The limited dataset in this application do not indicate any specific safety concern. The observed 
reactogenicity and the observed adverse events were comparable to what is reported in healthy 
subjects.  
The MAH provided a high-level overview of the available literature on the safety of a third dose of 
Spikevax as part of a primary series in immunocompromised individuals. All published literature refers 
to solid organ recipients and no safety data for Spikevax in patients with other types of 
immunodeficiency is available. 
Thus, no safety data are available from other immunocompromised populations such as patients with 
auto-immune or auto-inflammatory diseases, or patients under medical treatment other than the 
regimen used in transplant patients, known to result in immune suppression. 
Benefit-risk 
Based on general experience with vaccines, an increased antibody titre induced by a third dose may be 
associated with increased protection from the disease. Based on the very limited immunogenicity data 
the extent of the benefit of a third dose in immunocompromised patients cannot be estimated. For 
some types of immunocompromise, even a third dose within the primary series is unlikely to provide 
any benefit. 
No safety concerns are anticipated. There is uncertainty regarding the safety in different types of 
immunodeficiency. 
Overall, a third dose within a primary series could be justified based on individual benefit-risk 
considerations. A third dose of Spikevax (0.5 mL) may only be given to severely immunocompromised 
individuals, who have a high risk of severe disease due to a diminished antibody response following a 
2-dose regimen. The third dose should be given as part of the primary series and the time interval 
between the second and the third dose should be at least 28 days. 
The benefit-risk balance of Spikevax remains positive. 
9.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 28/29 
 
 
 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
new quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance 
data 
Update of sections 4.2 and 4.4 of the SmPC in order to introduce a third dose of Spikevax in the 
primary vaccination schedule for individuals 12 years of age and older who are severely 
immunocompromised, based on published literature data; the Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. 
The MAH took the opportunity to make minor administrative and editorial corrections throughout the 
product information. 
is recommended for approval. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to Annexes I and IIIB are 
recommended. 
10.  EPAR changes 
The table in Module 8b of the EPAR will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above  
Summary 
SmPC new text 
A third dose may be given at least 28 days after the second dose to individuals who are severely 
immunocompromised. The recommendation to consider a third dose (0.5 mL) is based on limited 
serological evidence with patients who are immunocompromised after solid organ transplantation. 
For more information, please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Please refer to Scientific Discussion ‘Spikevax/H/C/005791/II/31’ 
Assessment report  
EMA/572648/2021  
Page 29/29 
 
 
 
