EMA/578240/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004535 
Spravato (esketamine) 
An overview of Spravato and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Spravato and what is it used for? 
Spravato is a medicine used to treat adults with major depression that is resistant to treatment. It is 
used in combination with an SSRI or SNRI medicine (other antidepressants) when at least two other 
treatments have failed.  
Spravato contains the active substance esketamine. 
How is Spravato used? 
Spravato is available as a nasal spray to be used by the patient in a clinic or doctor’s office, under the 
direct supervision of a healthcare professional.  
The recommended starting dose is one or two sprays in each nostril (depending on the patient’s age) 
on the first day. This is followed by 1, 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril twice a week for 4 weeks. 
Afterwards, if the patient’s depression improves, Spravato should be used once a week for the next 4 
weeks and then once every 1 or 2 weeks for at least 6 months.  
Because Spravato can increase blood pressure, patients’ blood pressure should be measured before 
and after using Spravato. Patients with serious respiratory or heart problems should only use Spravato 
where facilities for resuscitating patients are immediately available.  
Spravato can only be obtained with a prescription and the decision to start treatment should be taken 
by a psychiatrist. For more information about using Spravato, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Spravato work? 
The active substance in Spravato, esketamine, is an antidepressant. It acts on receptors (targets) in 
the brain for a substance called NMDA. NMDA regulates the transmission of signals between cells in 
brain areas involved in the regulation of mood. By acting on these NMDA receptors, esketamine can 
help improve the symptoms of depression. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Spravato have been shown in studies? 
Studies in around 1,800 patients have shown that Spravato taken with an SSRI or SNRI relieves 
symptoms of treatment-resistant depression as measured using a standard scoring system known as 
MADRS. 
In a 4-week study, MADRS symptoms scores improved by 3.5 points more in patients treated with 
Spravato (plus an SSRI or SNRI) than in those treated with placebo (also with an SSRI or SNRI), a 
difference that is considered clinically relevant. Similar improvements were achieved in two other 
short-term studies, although the results were not as robust. The results of the three studies taken 
together convincingly showed that, overall, Spravato was more effective than placebo. 
In a fourth long-term study, Spravato was shown to be effective at preventing relapses of depression. 
The proportion of patients given Spravato (plus an SSRI or SNRI) who relapsed during the study was 
27%, compared with 45% in the placebo group (also given an SSRI or SNRI). A fifth study lasting 
around 1 year showed that the benefits of Spravato (plus an SSRI or SNRI) were maintained long-
term. 
What are the risks associated with Spravato? 
The most common side effects with Spravato (which may affect up to 3 in 10 people) are dizziness, 
nausea (feeling sick), dissociation (feeling of being disconnected from physical surroundings and 
emotions), headache, sleepiness, vertigo (a spinning sensation), dysgeusia (taste disturbances), 
hypoaesthesia (reduced sense of touch) and vomiting. For the full list of side effects of Spravato, see 
the package leaflet. 
Spravato must not be used in patients with weaknesses in blood vessel walls that might rupture if 
blood pressure goes up, patients who have had bleeding in the brain and patients who recently had a 
heart attack. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Spravato authorised in the EU? 
Studies showed that Spravato, added to SSRI or SNRI antidepressants, improves symptoms of major 
depression that have not improved with other treatment, both in the short- and in the long-term. 
Furthermore, the safety of Spravato was considered acceptable and its side effects manageable.  
Because of risk of patients misusing this medicine or becoming addicted to it, Spravato will only be 
available under a special prescription and must be taken under direct supervision of a healthcare 
professional. The European Medicines Agency concluded that with these restrictions in place the 
benefits of Spravato are greater than its risks and that it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Spravato? 
The company that markets Spravato will provide educational material for doctors and a guide for 
patients with important information about Spravato’s side effects, its risks and how to use the 
medicine. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Spravato have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Spravato are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Spravato are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Spravato (esketamine)  
EMA/578240/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Spravato 
Spravato received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 December 2019. 
Further information on Spravato can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/spravato.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2019. 
Spravato (esketamine)  
EMA/578240/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
