31 January 2019  
EMA/227269/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): dasatinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000935/201806 
Period covered by the PSUR: 28 June 2017 – 27 June 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for dasatinib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
A causal relationship between discontinuation of dasatinib therapy and withdrawal syndrome was 
confirmed, based on the musculoskeletal withdrawal symptoms at incidence rate of 9.5% in study 
DASFREE. The PRAC considers that the product information of dasatinib containing products should be 
amended to reflect the risk of musculoskeletal pain associated with discontinuation of dasatinib therapy. 
As the risk has already been identified for imatinib and nilotinib, it is considered a potential subclass effect 
for BCR/ABL targeting tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). 
A causal relationship between thrombotic microangiopathy and dasatinib is considered possible based on 
the evidence from eight cases of thrombotic microangiopathy associated with dasatinib treatment. Given 
the presented evidence, the PRAC considers thrombotic microangiopathy an important potential risk for 
dasatinib and the product information of dasatinib containing products should be amended to reflect this 
risk. Also, based on the evidence in the literature, thrombotic microangiopathy is considered as a 
potential subclass effect for BCR/ABL-targeting TKIs. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for dasatinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing dasatinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/227269/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
