SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Stalevo.  For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Parkinson's disease (PD) is caused by depletion of dopamine in the corpus striatum of the brain. This 
can be corrected by admistration of levodopa that is converted to dopamine through decarboxylation. 
Levodopa is very effective in controlling the cardinal signs of PD, such as rigidity, hypokinesia and 
tremor. Levodopa is always combined with a peripheral dopa decarboxylase (DDC) inhibitor in order 
to avoid the systemic adverse effects of dopamine and to increase the availability of levodopa to the 
brain. During the early stages of the disease, the clinical response following a single levodopa dose is 
stable  and  lasts  for  several  hours.  Unfortunately,  the  majority  of  PD  patients  develop  motor 
complications,  such  as  motor  fluctuations  (ON-OFF  fluctuations,  wearing  off  phenomena)  and 
dyskinesias,  during long-term therapy. Thus, the clinical benefit after a single dose of levodopa will 
become  progressively  diminished.  Entacapone  is  a  selective  peripherally  acting  catechol-O-
methyltransferase  (COMT)  inhibitor.  It  slows  the  clearance  of  levodopa  resulting  in  an  increased 
availability of levodopa to the brain. Consequently, the clinical response to each dose of levodopa is 
enhanced and prolonged. 
Stalevo (Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone,  LCE)  is  a fixed combination  of levodopa, carbidopa,  and 
entacapone.  Of  the  three  components,  levodopa  mediates  the  antiparkinsonian  effect  whereas 
carbidopa  and  entacapone  modify  the  peripheral  metabolism  of  levodopa.  Carbidopa  is  a  DDC 
inhibitor that is routinely combined with levodopa. The goal of Stalevo is to simplify the treatment of 
PD. 
Three different tablet strengths have been developed and investigated; containing 50, 100 or 150 mg of 
levodopa and 12.5, 25 and 37.5 mg of carbidopa respectively. Furthermore, each tablet contains 200 
mg of entacapone.  
The  following  therapeutic  indication  is  proposed:  "Stalevo  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients 
with Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations not stabilised on levodopa/DDC inhibitor 
treatment." 
The  maximum  recommended  daily  dose  provides  1500mg  of  levodopa,  375mg  of  carbidopa,  and 
2000mg of entacapone. Except for carbidopa, these daily doses are within the range recommended for 
current  levodopa/carbidopa  and  entacapone  products.  The  proposed  SmPC  provides  guidance  for 
switching  patients  taking  levodopa/DDC  inhibitor  (carbidopa  or  benserazide)  preparations  and 
entacapone  tablets  to  Stalevo.  In  addition,  it  is  proposed  that  some  patients  taking  levodopa/  DDC 
inhibitor (carbidopa or benserazide) preparations could initiate Stalevo without previous introduction 
of entacapone taken separately. Safety and efficacy has not been demonstrated in children. No special 
dose  adjustments  are  recommended  for  the  elderly  or  for  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  renal 
insufficiency. 
Fixed combination products of levodopa and carbidopa have been used extensively within the EU and 
worldwide  for  approximately  27  years.  The  efficacy  and  safety  of  entacapone  with  levodopa/DDC 
inhibitor (including carbidopa) in the treatment of patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) experiencing 
end-of-dose wearing-off motor fluctuations has been established previously. CPMP granted a positive 
opinion of entacapone (as Comtess / Comtan) in 1998 as an adjunct to levodopa/DDC inhibitor in such 
patients.  
The  application  for  Stalevo  is,  on  one  hand,  based  on  the  Comtess/Comtan  applicant's  own  dossier 
and,  on  the  other  hand,  refers  to  the  well-established  use  (WEU)  of  the  levodopa/carbidopa  fixed 
combination. The applicant has included a WEU-justification document, which covers all the indents 
of Directive 2001/83/EC set out in Annex I Part 3 (I) and Part 4(I).  
1/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  original  data  in  part  IV  of  the  dossier  aim  to  show  the  bioequivalence  of  the  proposed  LCE-
product  to  fixed  combinations  of  levodopa  /  carbidopa  (Sinemet)  and  entacapone.  In  addition,  new 
analyses  of  data  from  previous  clinical  trials  with  Comtess/Comtan  have  been  performed  to  support 
the  feasibility  of  the  fixed  combination.  The  proposed  SPC  is  based  on  the  SPC  of  Comtess  and 
Sinemet (in U.K.), relevant literature as well as on data from the new bioequivalence studies.  
The CPMP issued a scientific advice in November 1999 on preclinical and clinical issues. The CPMP 
acknowledged 
the 
pharmacokinetic  approach 
(Sinemet, 
Comtess/Comtan). 
the  fixed  LCE  combination  and  accepted 
to  demonstrate  bioequivalence 
the  practical  advantage  of 
the  originators 
to 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Stalevo is presented in the form of film-coated tablets and contains three active substances, levodopa, 
carbidopa and entacapone. Three different tablet strengths have been developed, each in 4:1 ratio of 
levodopa  (50,  100  and  150  mg) to  carbidopa (12.5, 25 and  37.5  mg)  and  combined  with  200  mg of 
entacapone.  
The  qualitative  composition  is  the  same  in  all  three  formulations.  Excipients  include  croscarmellose 
sodium, magnesium stearate, maize starch, mannitol, povidone in the tablet core, and glycerol 85 %, 
hypromellose,  magnesium  stearate, polysorbate 80, red iron oxide, sucrose, titanium dioxide, yellow 
iron oxide in the film coating. 
The tablets are packed in a HD-polyethylene container with child-resistant polypropylene closure. 
Active substances 
Levodopa 
Levodopa  complies  with  the  monograph  of  the  Ph  Eur,  and  the  certificate  of  suitability  has  been 
provided. Batch analysis data are provided for three batches and are analyzed in accordance with the 
testing methods of the Ph. Eur. monograph. 
Stability data of four years on three batches stored at 25°C/60% RH are provided. The re-test period 
proposed is compatible with the stability data presented. 
Carbidopa 
Information on carbidopa has been supplied in the form of an EDMF.  
Carbidopa is presented in the  form of  monohydrate and is  described in the Ph Eur. The evidence of 
structure  is  based  on  the  spectroscopic  analysis.  One  asymmetrical  carbon  atom  is  present  in  the 
carbidopa molecule and therefore, two isomers of carbidopa are theoretically possible. Carbidopa used 
in this product is the L-form. Physico-chemical characterization was given, and it was stated that no 
polymorph forms were present in the carbidopa raw material. The synthesis is performed in four steps. 
Carbidopa specifications includes test for description, identity, assay, related substances, heavy metals, 
residual solvents, particle size, specific optical rotation, etc. 
Batch analysis data are provided for three batches and comply with the proposed specifications. 
The process, specifications and control of methods are adequately described in the restricted section of 
the EDMF. 
Stability data covering five batches demonstrate compliance with the Ph Eur monograph for up to the 
proposed re-test period at the storage condition +25°C ± 2°C/60% RH ± 5%. Additional batches were 
incorporated into the study program, comprising eight batches with storage periods of 9 - 48 months. 
2/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability  data  for  three  batches  of  carbidopa  stored  in  the  same  type  of  containers  as  those  used  for 
shipment  of the  product  at the  accelerated  condition  +40°C  ±  2°C/75% RH ±  5%  for  6  months was 
provided. 
The re-test period proposed is acceptable according to the stability data submitted. 
Entacapone 
Information on entacapone has been supplied in the form of an EDMF.  
Entacapone is not described in a EU pharmacopoeia. The synthesis process, specifications and 
analytical methods for entacapone are the same as accepted earlier in an EU authorised product 
containing entacapone alone. 
Batch analysis data are provided for six batches and comply well with the accepted specifications. 
The process, specifications and control of methods are adequately described in the restricted section of 
the EDMF. 
The tests and limits in the specifications are considered appropriate for controlling the quality of the 
active substances. 
The re-test period proposed for entacapone drug substance has been approved in an earlier entacapone 
tablets centralised application, and remains satisfactory. 
Other ingredients 
Other  ingredients  include  croscarmellose  sodium,  magnesium  stearate,  maize  starch,  mannitol, 
povidone in the tablet core, and glycerol 85 %, hypromellose, magnesium stearate, polysorbate 80, red 
iron oxide, sucrose, titanium dioxide, yellow iron oxide in the film coating. All of them except colour 
are  described  in  the  Ph.  Eur.  Colours  meet  the  general  requirement  as  described  in  EC  Directive 
95/45/EC. 
Regarding the TSE compliance of the excipients, there is no TSE risk in polysorbate 80 and glycerol 
85% raw materials, because they are produced from vegetable originThe TSE certificate of Ph Eur for 
magnesium stearate is provided.  
The tablets are packed in a HD-polyethylene container with child-resistant polypropylene closure. The 
specifications and testing standards for the primary packaging components used are presented and are 
acceptable. 
Product development and finished product 
The  aim  of  the  development  work  has  been  to  develop  an  stable  finished  product,  which  is 
bioequivalent with reference products containing entacapone and levodopa/carbidopa combination. In 
addition  tablets  are  developed  to  have  an  appropriate  size  in  order  to  be  easily  swallowed  and  the 
manufacturing process is developed to be robust.  
Solubility, particle size, and polymorphism of the active substances have been taken into consideration 
during development. A number of studies have also been carried out to define the compatibilities of 
the active substances with each other and with the pharmaceutical excipients.  
Different granulation processes were examined during development. The excipients were selected for 
further development studies on  the  basis of  properties of  granules  and tablets. The final formulation 
was selected on the basis of the stability and bioavailability results. 
Granulation  and  solubility  properties  of  the  active  substances  were  considered  during  the  product 
development. 
3/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The manufacturing process is comprised of several steps: the granules are mixed together with filler, 
disintegrant and lubricant, ant the obtained mass is compressed into tablets. The tablets are coated with 
a coating suspension. 
The  process has been validated by a number of studies for the major steps in three production-scale 
batches of each strength. The manufacturing process has adequately been validated and is satisfactory.  
In process controls are adequate. 
The batch analysis data show that the film coated tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according 
to the agree finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation 
The  specifications  of  the  intermediate  product  (release  and  shelf-life)  include  tests  by  validated 
methods for appearance, identification, assay, degradation products and microbial purity tested at the 
end of the shelf-life. Batch analysis data are available for three batches.  
The shelf life of intermediate product proposed can be accepted based on stability data submitted. 
Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identification,  assay, 
degradation  products  of  the  active  substances,  microbial  purity,  dissolution  of  the  active  substances, 
etc.  
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the release and shelf life specification for the finished product are appropriate to 
control the quality of the finished products for their intended purpose.  
Batch  analysis  data  on  three  production-scale  batches  (validation  batches)  for  each  of  three  tablet 
strengths confirm satisfactory uniformity in the product at release.  
Stability of the product 
The  shelf-life  specifications  for  the  finished  product  are  the  same  as  at  release.  The  following 
parameters  are  included  in  the  shelf-life  specifications:  physical  appearance  and  colour  of  tablet, 
average  mass,  disintegration  time  (not  in  release-specifications)  and  dissolution  of  the  active 
substances, assay and degradation products of the active substances and microbiological purity. 
The  stability  data  provided  include  information  gained  from  18/24  month  long  term  (25°C/60%  RH 
and  30°C/60%  RH  during  18/24  months),  and  6  month  accelerate  (40°C/75%  RH  )  and  supportive 
stability studies (36 months, 25°C/60% RH, and 30°C/60% RH, and 6 months, 45°C/75% RH) on the 
finished  product.  In  addition,  the  photostability  of  the  coated  tablets  and  the  sensitivity  to  repeated 
freezing thawing have been tested. Results of consumption study were also available.  
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life stated in the SPC is acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In  general, the quality of Stalevo film  coated tablets  is  adequately  established, satisfactory chemical 
and  pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorization.  Relevant 
ICH/CPMP  guidelines  and Pharmacopoeia requirements have been taken into  account  in the quality 
documentation and there are no major deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
Acceptable  specifications  have  been  presented  for  the  three  active  substances  (levodopa,  carbidopa 
and entacapone). The synthetic pathway is presented for the three active substances and the structure 
and impurity profile are characterized and are in line with current ICH guidelines. The stability data on 
the active substance supports the proposed re-testing period. 
4/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The excipients are of pharmaceutical grade and commonly used in tablet formulation. 
The development and the manufacturing process of the finished products are properly described, the 
results from validation batches show that the manufacturing process is successfully validated, and are 
suitable to ensure consistent quality of the active substance and the finished product. 
Based  on  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  stated  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics can be accepted. 
At  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion,  there  was  an  unresolved  quality  issues  without  impact  on  the 
clinical efficacy or safety of the product, therefore the applicant made a commitment to resolve these 
as post-opinion follow-up measures 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The current application is a bibliographic application with mixed data from the applicant.  
This  non-clinical  documentation  includes  data  on  levodopa/carbidopa  essentially  from  published 
literature as part of its well-established use. Other toxico-pharmacological data on entacapone and the 
levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone (LCE) combination originate from the applicant. 
Pharmacodynamics 
PD is characterised by a progressive degeneration of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurones leading to a 
dopamine deficiency in the striatum. Levodopa is an immediate precursor of dopamine. In contrast to 
dopamine it penetrates the blood-brain barrier and is converted to dopamine in the brain. Consequently 
levodopa  restores  striatal  dopamine  to  more  normal  levels  (“dopamine  replacement  therapy”). 
Virtually  all  patients  respond  favourably  to  levodopa  initially.  Unfortunately,  the  majority  of  PD 
patients develop motor complications, such as motor fluctuations (ON-OFF fluctuations, wearing off 
phenomena) and dyskinesias, during long-term therapy. 
Carbidopa  reversibly  inhibits  the  DDC  enzyme  in  the  periphery.  It  is  a  pharmacologically  inert 
substance  in  the  absence  of  levodopa.  Thus,  the  effect  of  carbidopa  is  purely  pharmacokinetic.  In 
combination  with  carbidopa  the  daily  levodopa  dose  can  be  decreased  by  an  average  75%.  As  the 
peripheral conversion of levodopa to dopamine is reduced by carbidopa the peripheral side effects of 
levodopa,  such  as  nausea,  vomiting,  hypotension  and  cardiac  arrhythmias  are  reduced.  Currently 
levodopa is almost invariably administered as a combination preparation of levodopa/carbidopa (L/C) 
Entacapone  has  been  shown  to  inhibit  selectively  the  COMT  enzyme  in  crude  enzyme  preparations 
from various rat tissues (brain, liver, duodenum and red blood cells) and from human red blood cells 
with  IC50-values  in  the  nanomolar  range  (10-160  nM),  as  compared  to  tyrosine  hydroxylase  and 
Dopamine  β-hydroxylase  (bovine  adrenal  medulla),  Dopa-decarboxylase  and  Monoaminooxidase 
from rat brain. The (Z)-isomer of Entacapone (approximately 5% of total drug in human plasma), has 
also shown COMT inhibitory properties with IC50 values of 20-280 nM. 
The efficacy of the LCE combination has been studied in animal models of Parkinson’s disease  and 
compared to the prevailing treatment with L+C. 
The  models  used  include  the  MPTP-model,  reserpinised  mice  and  turning  behavior  (rats  bearing  a 
unilateral lesion created by 6-OHDA).  
In  these  models,  entacapone  potentiates  the  antiparkinsonian  effects  of  L/C  treatment  and  in  some 
models, significantly delays the reappearance of motor dysfunction. Taken together, the data indicate 
that  entacapone  is  a  potent,  selective  and  reversible  inhibitor  of  COMT.  This  may  lead  to  an 
enhancement  of  the  bioavailability  of  L-dopa  in  the  brain,  as  evidenced  by  changes  in  the 
concentrations of its metabolites. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
5/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The general and safety pharmacology of entacapone alone have been investigated adequately. 
Entacapone seems to be devoid of any marked central effect, at least in single dose experiments, which 
is in agreement with its low penetration into the CNS. Entacapone did not change body temperature in 
rats,  after  single  (400  and  800  mg/kg)  or  repeated  administration  (200  mg/kg  bid  for  7  days)  in 
contrast  to  tolcapone  and  dinitrophenol  indicating  that  in  vivo  conditions  entacapone  does  not 
uncouple oxidative phosphorylation. 
No adverse effects of clinical relevance were observed with respect to the cardiovascular, respiratory, 
renal or gastrointestinal systems.  
Following intravenous administration (0.003-3 mg/kg) to anesthetised normotensive rats, no effect on 
blood pressure, heart rate or ECG was observed. Also, high doses of entacapone (300 mg/kg/day) have 
no effects on ECG in dogs when measured 1 and 24 hours after the last dose in a 51-week oral chronic 
toxicity study. 
Entacapone  administered  in  rats  pre-treated  with  L/C  combination,  slightly  decreased  the  body 
temperature in contrast to entacapone alone. 
No safety pharmacology information is available with the LCE combination. Toxicology studies with 
the  combination  indicate  that  a  detailed  safety  pharmacology  experimentation  would  have  been 
difficult  to  perform  since  at  high  doses  of  the  combination,  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  due  to 
prominent increase in brain DA would cause serious behavioural signs and thus limit the information 
gained from safety pharmacology experiments. 
There  is,  however,  a  large  amount  of  information  collected  on  the  clinical  safety  studies  of  the  L/C 
combination  during  the  quarter  of  century  use  of  this  combination  justifying  the  lack  of  additional 
animal data. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
The pharmacodynamic action and the pharmacology of entacapone and its combination with L/C have 
been well characterised in the literature and by in vitro/in vivo studies performed by the applicant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Levodopa/Carbidopa (L/C) 
Pharmacokinetic data of levodopa and carbidopa are available from the literature.  
Levodopa exhibits a considerable inter- and intra-patient variability in absorption, a rapid elimination 
(t1/2el approximately 1 h) and an extensive metabolism (more than 30 metabolites have been identified 
in urine). However, the main metabolic pathways are decarboxylation by dopa decarboxylase (DDC) 
and O-methylation by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). Due to short half-life levodopa plasma 
concentrations fluctuate considerably throughout the day and contribute to the clinical fluctuations and 
no true accumulation of levodopa occurs when it is administered repeatedly. 
Carbidopa  is  absorbed  more  slowly  than  levodopa  from  the  standard  levodopa/carbidopa  preparations 
(tmax for levodopa is approximately 1 h and for carbidopa 2.2 h). The elimination half-life of carbidopa 
is  approximately  2  h.  Carbidopa  is  partially  metabolised  to  two  main  metabolites  but  unchanged 
carbidopa accounts for 30% of the total urinary excretion. A quite variable absorption is characteristic 
also for carbidopa. 
Carbidopa increases levodopa AUC and Cmax by 2-4 fold. However, carbidopa does not change or only 
moderately  prolongs  the  elimination  half-life  of  levodopa.  As  carbidopa  inhibits  peripheral  DDC  the 
excretion  of  decarboxylated  metabolites  of  levodopa,  such  as  dopamine  and  homovanillic  acid,  are 
decreased while the relative amounts of dopa and 3-O-methyldopa, a COMT metabolite, are increased. 
6/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entacapone 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  entacapone  has  been  investigated  in  rats  and  dogs.  A  few  qualitative  and 
quantitative  differences  across  species  were  found.  The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  entacapone  is 
sufficiently similar in animals and humans to allow the extrapolation of animal data for human safety.  
Absorption  of  unchanged  entacapone  after  single  oral administration is  quite rapid both in  rats  and in 
dogs. In rats and in humans, the absolute bioavailability was dose-dependent and ranged from 20% to 
55%, following  single  dose of  10,  65  and  400  mg/kg, in rats and from  29% to 49%, following single 
dose of 5, 25, 50, 100, 200, 400 and 800 mg, in humans. 
In  vitro,  the  protein  binding  of  entacapone  (5µg/ml)  was  high  with  species  differences:  about  98%  in 
man, rabbit and monkey; 5% in mouse and pig and 10% in dog. 
The overall elimination half-life of entacapone ranged from 30 minutes to 1 hour in dogs and from 1.5 
to 3 hours in man. Following repeated administration in rats and in dogs, no accumulation or retention 
of drug-related material was observed. 
Entacapone is extensively metabolised in the liver in all species including humans, the main metabolic 
pathway being glucuronidation, sulfation and isomerisation from (E)- to (Z)-isomer (active metabolite). 
In  rat  and  dog,  entacapone  metabolites  are  predominantly  excreted  with  the  faeces  (two/third  as 
glucuronide  or  sulphate  conjugates)  and  one/third  in  the  urine  with  less  than  1.5%  of  the  entacapone 
dose  as  unchanged.  After  the  first  hour  30-45%  of  the  dose  was  recovered  in  the  bile,  with  an 
enterohepatic circulation accounting for about 10% of the given radioactivity.  
LCE Combination 
Kinetic  data  with  the  LCE  combination  are  derived  from  toxicokinetic  studies  in  rats  and  monkeys 
treated for up to 13 weeks. 
In the rat after 4 weeks or 13 weeks treatment with the LCE combination, entacapone exposure levels 
followed  a  linear  dose-response  but  were  decreased  at  high  dose  in  the  presence  of  L/C.  As  expected 
from  the  pharmacology,  levodopa  plasma  levels  were  increased  in  parallel  with  a  decrease  of  the  3-
OMD  metabolite  levels,  in  the  presence  of  entacapone.  Carbidopa  plasma  levels  however,  were 
decreased in the presence of entacapone in rats and monkeys probably due to a decreased absorption 
In monkeys, the AUCs of L, C, entacapone and its Z-isomer but not that of other metabolites, were 
proportional to the LCE combination administered. 
Toxicology 
Levodopa/Carbidopa (L/C) 
Single and Repeat-Dose Toxicity 
The  acute  toxicity  of  levodopa/carbidopa,  conducted  by  the  applicant  in  rats  and  mice  is  low  (LD50 
>1.5g/kg). 
A  comprehensive  review  of  toxicological  studies  of  carbidopa  and  a  combination  of  levodopa  and 
carbidopa has been published by Zwickey et al. (1974, Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology, 29:181-
195).  They studied single dose toxicity and repeated dose toxicity of levodopa/carbidopa up to one year 
in monkeys and 96 weeks in rats. 
In  addition, levodopa/carbidopa has  been included to the combination toxicity studies  conducted  for 
the LCE product in the repeated dose studies. 
7/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproductive function, embryo/foetal and perinatal toxicity 
Levodopa alone, and in combination with carbidopa, have caused visceral and skeletal malformations 
in rabbits. Carbidopa is excreted in milk. Levodopa crosses the placenta of humans and the foetus will 
be  exposed  to  both  levodopa  and  its  metabolites.  No  information  regarding  the  effects  of 
levodopa/carbidopa on the reproductive function has been published. 
Mutagenic and carcinogenic potential 
Limited amount of in vitro mutagenicity information for levodopa and carbidopa, studied separately, 
has  been  published.  In  addition,  levodopa/carbidopa  has  been  included  into  the  in  vitro  and  in  vivo 
mutagenicity studies conducted for LCE-product. According to the results reported by Zwickey et al, 
1974 (see above), the combination of levodopa + carbidopa was not carcinogenic in rats. In addition, 
there  is  no  epidemiological  evidence  to  suggest  that  levodopa/carbidopa  has  a  carcinogenic  effect 
although epidemiological studies have not been conducted to support this. 
In  conclusion,  according  to  these  preclinical  data,  levodopa/carbidopa  should  not  be  used  during 
pregnancy and breast-feeding. (see SmPC 4.6) 
Entacapone alone 
Single and repeat-dose toxicity  
Single  dose  studies  were  performed  in  rats  and  mice  with  entacapone  or  the  (Z)-isomer  alone.  The 
acute  toxicity  is  low:  LD50  being  about  2  g/kg  p.o.  in  mice  and  over  2  g/kg  p.o.  in  rats  with  no 
difference between (Z)- and (E)-isomer.  
Repeated  dose  toxicity  of  entacapone  was  studied  orally  for  up  to  12  months  in  rats,  and  up  to  52-
week toxicity in dogs. No clear signs of organ toxicity were found in the chronic toxicity studies. The 
only  consistent  finding  was  that  entacapone  induced  a  slight  anaemia.  This  may  be  due  to  iron 
deficiency, since high doses of entacapone chelate iron. 
Reproductive toxicity  
A full range of reproduction toxicology studies have been performed in rats and a teratology study in 
rabbits. The highest dosing of entacapone in these studies was 700 - 1000 mg/kg/day in rats and 300 
mg/kg/day in rabbits. The exposure factors referring to circulating entacapone levels in humans was in 
the range of 20 to 40 in rats and 1 to 2 in rabbits. 
No effects on fertility and general reproductive performance were observed in the rat. 
Entacapone  administered  to  the  pregnant  rats  during  the  period  of  organogenesis  produced  no 
significant effects upon survival and  development in utero. Entacapone administered to the pregnant 
rabbits  resulted  in  an  abnormal  body  weight  gain  in  mother  and  in  an  increased  incidence  of  small 
foetuses.  Skeletal  examination  of  foetuses  revealed  an  apparent  slight  developmental  delay  in  some 
bones. 
In the peri/post-natal study, gestation length and parturition were unaffected by entacapone. Litter size, 
survival,  sex  ratio,  weight  gain  and  post-natal  development  was  also  normal.  The  fertility  and  litter 
responses of the F1-generation were also unaffected by treatment of F0-generation. 
Genotoxicity  
The genotoxicity potential of entacapone was studied in a battery of in vitro and ex vivo genotoxicity 
tests, performed according to current requirements. Entacapone was found to be mutagenic in two 
mammalian cell tests in vitro, suggestive of chromosome type damage. However, entacapone has not 
shown any genotoxicity in vivo. Toxicokinetic studies in mice have confirmed high exposure of 
entacapone after oral administration. 
8/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity  
Carcinogenicity studies were performed in rodents with up to 600 mg/kg/day (mice) or 400 mg/kg/day 
(rats) entacapone administered orally by gavage. The mouse study did not reveal any treatment-related 
increase  of  neoplastic  findings.  In  the  rat  study  (104  weeks),  the  major  finding  was  an  increased 
number  of  adenomas  and  carcinomas  in  the  kidneys  of  male  rats  receiving  400  mg/kg/day  of 
entacapone.  No  such  tumours  were  observed  in  females.  Additional  mechanistic  studies  provided 
evidence  that  entacapone-induced  tumours  are  related  to  male  rat  specific  alpha2µ-globulin 
nephropathy. 
Environmental risk assessment  
The  applicant  provided  adequate  information  on  ecotoxicity  and  environmental  risk  associated  with 
the use of entacapone.  
LCE Combination 
The toxicity of the LCE combination was studied in repeated dose studies for up to 3 months in rats 
and cynomolgus monkeys, in in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies and embryofetal studies in rats 
and rabbits. The qualification of impurities and degradation products of carbidopa was also performed. 
Toxicokinetic data are available from the main combination toxicology studies. 
Single-dose toxicity  
The  data,  derived  from  range-finding  studies  in  mice  and  cynomolgus  monkeys  show  that  the  acute 
toxicity of the LCE combination appears to be low. 
Repeat-Dose Toxicity 
A 1 month rat study and 3 month rat and cynomolgus monkey studies with the LCE combination were 
performed with a 4/1 ratio of levodopa/carbidopa, which is similar to the intended clinical use. In each 
study, additional high dose groups with entacapone alone and levodopa/carbidopa only were included. 
In the 1 month rat study, reduced weight gain in males and haematological changes (reduced Hb and 
PCV)  were  observed  at  the  highest  dose  of  entacapone  alone,  and  of  the  LCE  combination. 
Behavioural signs were all similar to those known to be related to increased DA concentrations in the 
brain.  Similar  observations  were  made  in  28-day  rat  combination  toxicity  study,  where  a  fixed 
combination of L-DOPA/carbidopa/entacapone/ selegiline was used. Thus MAO-B inhibition did not 
increase the toxicity of the LCE treatment. 
In  the  13-week  rat  and  monkey  studies,  dose-related  behavioural  changes  attributed  to  elevated  DA 
levels  in  the  brain  were  observed.  Entacapone  amplified  the  known  behavioural  effects  of 
levodopa/carbidopa,  due  to  increased  L-DOPA  levels  and  subsequent  increased  formation  of  DA. 
From these data, no unexpected toxicity associated with any of the individual components is apparent. 
In  summary,  the  toxicity  of  entacapone  has  been  adequately  studied.  Chronic  toxicity  of  LCE 
combination  has  not  been  studied.  Keeping  in  mind  that  the  dopamine-related  symptoms  would  be 
very severe when higher doses of the combination are used, the information gained from a one year 
toxicity  study  would  be  limited  due  to  relatively  low  exposures.  Furthermore,  in  current  clinical 
practice, the triple treatment with L-DOPA/carbidopa + entacapone has been well tolerated in a large 
number of parkinsonian patients. 
Genotoxicity 
Entacapone  tested  in  combination  with  L-DOPA  and  carbidopa  was  not  mutagenic  in  bacterial 
mutagenicity test. 
In the in vivo micronucleus test, high doses of entacapone in combination with L-DOPA and carbidopa 
did  not  induce  chromosomal  or  other  damage  which  might  lead  to  micronucleus  formation  in 
polychromatic erythrocytes of treated mice 24, 48 or 72 hours after oral administration.  
9/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproductive toxicity 
The reproductive toxicity of the LCE combination was addressed in two embryo-foetal and perinatal 
toxicity studies in the rat  and in the rabbit  where  the  animals were treated  with 3  dose levels of the 
LCE combination with additional treated groups receiving either L/C only or entacapone alone 
There was no indication of maternal or fetal toxicity or abnormalities of F1in the rat study. 
No maternal toxicity occurred at the doses used in the rabbit study, however low incidence of internal 
malformations  (hydrocephaly)  was  seen  in  the  group  treated  with  L/C  only.  There  is  literature 
evidence that L-DOPA may be teratogenic by inducing abnormal development of internal organs and 
bones  in  rabbits  (Staples  and  Mattis  (1973),  Acta  Universitatis  Carolinae.  Medica.  Monographia; 
8:251-253).  In  addition,  levodopa  crosses  the  placenta  in  humans  and  the  foetus  will  be  exposed  to 
both  L-DOPA  and  its  metabolites  (Merchant  et  al.  (1995)  Journal  of  Neural  Transmission;  9:239-
242). Taken together, the triple therapy is not recommended during pregnancy in humans. 
Carcinogenicity 
No additional carcinogenicity studies have been performed with the LCE combination. 
Impurities/metabolites: 
There  are  three  impurities  and  one  degradation  product  of  carbidopa  in  the  LCE  product  that  are  not 
covered by the Eur. Ph. or the U.S.P.  
In order to qualify the impurities, the applicant performed a 28-day rat study by oral administration of 
carbidopa with or without impurities, and a supportive 5-day toxicokinetics study as well as a standard 
battery of genotoxicity testing (Ames test, mouse lymphoma test and in vivo mouse micronucleus). 
In  the  rat  study,  no  impurity  related  toxicity  was  observed.  The  findings  were  comparable  to  those 
observed in an earlier 13-week repeated dose study.  
However,  the  exposure  of  carbidopa  was  lower  than  expected  from  other  combination  studies. 
According to the applicant who performed a literature review and additional toxicokinetics studies, the 
kidney is the main organ of clearance of carbidopa in the rat, unlike dogs or humans, and levodopa may 
decrease the renal excretion of carbidopa explaining the increased exposures with levodopa/carbidopa. 
In the genotoxicity battery, carbidopa with and without impurities gave similar qualitative results in in 
vitro  or in vivo tests. 
In  conclusion,  the  presence  of  the  degradation  product  does  not  affect  the  benefit/risk  of  the  LCE 
product,  since  it  is  also  a  human  metabolite  and  has  been  detected  in  the  reference  product.  The 
impurities do not seem to change the toxicity profile of the LCE product as judged by the 28 days rat 
subacute  toxicity  study.  In  addition,  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  that  the  other  impurities  are  not 
unique to their product as they are also present in another marketed levodopa/carbidopa product. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  applicant  has  provided  an  adequate  bibliographic  survey  of  the  preclinical  safety  aspects  of  the 
fixed combination of levodopa/carbidopa. The clinical use of carbidopa at doses exceeding 200mg/day 
is supported  by the relatively low toxicity of carbidopa in  animals as well as  a wide  safety  margin  in 
comparison with the human AUC. Further safety data are derived from the results of clinical trials (see 
clinical part). 
The  summary  of  the  applicant  of  the  previously  submitted  preclinical  documentation  concerning  the 
concomitant use of levodopa/carbidopa and entacapone demonstrates that no new preclinical studies of 
the safety of the combined use are necessary.  
10/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The presence of new impurities in the product does not seem to change the toxicity profile of the LCE 
product and therefore do not affect significantly the benefit/risk of the LCE product. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Stalevo (Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone,  LCE)  is  a fixed combination  of levodopa, carbidopa,  and 
entacapone. Three different tablet strengths have been developed and investigated; containing 50, 100 
or 150 mg of levodopa and 12.5, 25 and 37.5 mg of carbidopa respectively. Each tablet contains 200 
mg of entacapone. 
Fixed combination products of levodopa and carbidopa have been used extensively within the EU and 
worldwide  for  approximately  27  years.  The  efficacy  and  safety  of  entacapone  with  levodopa/DDC 
inhibitor (including carbidopa) in the treatment of patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) experiencing 
end-of-dose wearing-off motor fluctuations has been established previously. CPMP granted a positive 
opinion  to  entacapone  (Comtess/Comtan)  in  September  1998  as  an  adjunct  to  levodopa  in  such 
patients. 
The company presented an application with data from the literature to justify the well-established use 
(WEU)  of  the  levodopa/carbidopa  fixed  combination  and  data  from  the  original  entacapone 
(Comtess/Comtan)  application.  New  clinical  data  aim  to  show  the  bioequivalence  of  the  proposed 
LCE-combinations to fixed combination of levodopa and carbidopa (Sinemet) as well as to entacapone 
(Comtess/Comtan). In addition, the Clinical Expert Report contains certain new analyses of data from 
previous clinical trials with Comtess/Comtan to support the feasibility of the fixed combination. Data 
from two phase IIIb studies and post-marketing data were also provided. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Stalevo  is  a  fixed  combination  of  levodopa,  carbidopa,  and  entacapone.  Of  the  three  components, 
levodopa  mediates  the  antiparkinsonian  effect  whereas  carbidopa  and  entacapone  modify  the 
peripheral metabolism of levodopa. Levodopa is a precursor of dopamine. The conversion of levodopa 
to dopamine in the brain is required for the therapeutic effect. Carbidopa is a selective, reversible and 
peripherally  acting  dopa  decarboxylase  (DDC)  inhibitor  that  is  routinely  combined  with  levodopa. 
Entacapone  is  a  reversible  and  peripherally  acting  catechol-O-methyltransferase  (COMT)  inhibitor. 
Both carbidopa and entacapone inhibit the metabolism of levodopa outside the central nervous system. 
The goal is to increase and prolong the availability of levodopa to the CNS from a single dose. 
Entacapone has  been demonstrated to dose-dependently and reversibly inhibit COMT activity in red 
blood  cells  of  healthy  volunteers.  Maximum  inhibition  (approximately  60%)  was  reached  within  60 
min  with  a  single  dose  of  200  mg.  The  activity  returned  to  baseline  within  8  hours.  Reversible 
inhibition  was  also  observed  following  repeated  dosing  for  10  days.  Entacapone  has  no 
antiparkinsonian  effect  per  se.  In  the  treatment  of  PD,  entacapone  is  always  administered  with  a 
levodopa/DDC inhibitor. 
See also below the section on pharmacokinetics (in particular interaction studies). 
Pharmacokinetics 
•  General 
The main pharmacokinetic characteristics of levodopa, carbidopa, and entacapone are displayed in the 
following table. 
11/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variable 
Levodopa 
Carbidopa 
Entacapone 
15 – 33 
40 – 70 
29 – 46 (35 for 200 
mg)  
0.5 – 2.2 
1.5 – 5 
0.4 – 0.9 
Bioavailability 
(%) 
tmax (h) 
Cmax and AUC 
Dose-
proportional, 
non-linear 
? 
t1/2β (h) 
0.6 – 1.3 
2 – 3 
Dose-proportional, 
linear 
0.4 – 0.7 (β-phase) 
2.4 (γ-phase) 
Vd (L/kg) 
Clearance 
(L/kg/h) 
0.36 – 1.6 
not available 
0.55 – 1.38  
not available 
0.27 
0.70 
Levodopa:  the  absorption  of  levodopa  (an  L-isomer  of  dihydroxyphenylalanine)  is  relatively  poor 
(15-33%). Certain types of meals may delay or reduce the absorption of levodopa. However, there is 
no  recommendation  on  the  dosing  and  meals.  Binding  to  plasma  proteins  is  negligible.  No 
accumulation  is  expected  in  the  repeated  administration.  In  the  elderly,  absorption  is  better  and  the 
elimination  is  slower.  The  difference  in  absorption  between  the  elderly  and  the  younger  individuals 
was  not  seen  in  the  co-administration  with  carbidopa.  Levodopa  is  undergoing  an  extensive 
metabolism in which decarboxylation (by dopa decarboxylase, DDC) and O-methylation (by catechol-
O-methyltransferase, COMT) are the most important pathways. 
Carbidopa: the absorption of Carbidopa is somewhat slower than that of levodopa, the Tmax being 
one  hour.  Like  levodopa,  it  exhibits  a  significant  interindividual  variation  in  absorption,  the  oral 
bioavailability  being  40-70%.  There  are  two  main  metabolites  and  approximately  30%  of  carbidopa 
are excreted unchanged in urine. 
Entacapone  pharmacokinetics  are  comparable  with  levodopa.  It  is  absorbed  rapidly  after  oral 
administration (tmax 0.5-1 h), its bioavailability is about 35% and its elimination half-life is short (ß-
phase about 0.5 h, γ-phase 2.4 h). There seems to be no accumulation of entacapone during repeated 
administration.  There  are  substantial  inter-  and  intraindividual  variations  in  the  absorption  of 
entacapone,  particularly  concerning  its  Cmax.  Food  does  not  significantly  affect  the  absorption  of 
entacapone.  Entacapone  is  extensively  bound  to  protein  (approximately  98%),  mainly  to  albumin. 
Entacapone is almost completely metabolised prior to excretion; only about 0.2% of the dose is found 
unchanged  in  urine.  The  main  metabolic  pathways  are  glucuronidation  of  entacapone  and  its  active 
metabolite,  the  cis-isomer,  which  accounts  for  about  5%  of  the  total  amount  in  plasma.  10%  of  the 
entacapone  dose  is  excreted  in  urine,  the  rest  is  eliminated  via  the  faeces  by  biliary  excretion.  Age 
does  not  significantly  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  entacapone.  The  AUC  was  shown  to  be 
approximately two-fold in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment compared with healthy 
subjects. Renal impairment does not essentially affect the pharmacokinetics of entacapone. 
Levodopa  +  carbidopa/benserazide:  Carbidopa  increases  levodopa  AUC  and  Cmax  by  2-4  fold,  on 
average.  Due  to  increased  AUC,  the  daily  levodopa  dose  can  be  decreased  by  an  average  75%. 
Carbidopa  does  not  significantly  change  the  tmax  of  levodopa.  Carbidopa  reduces  the  clearance  of 
levodopa  by  about  50%,  while  the  distribution  volume  either  remains  unchanged  or  is  slightly 
decreased.  In  the  elderly,  the  AUC  increase  is  mainly  due  to  the  reduced  levodopa  clearance  rather 
than  to  the  increased  bioavailability.  In  the  presence  of  carbidopa,  levodopa  follows  linear 
pharmacokinetics.  Carbidopa  treatment  decreases  the  levels  of  the  decarboxylated  metabolites  of 
levodopa,  such  as  dopamine,  DOPAC  and  HVA,  in  urine  by  about  70-80%,  whereas  excretion  of 
unchanged  dopa  is  considerably  increased.  However,  carbidopa  neither  reduces  plasma  levodopa 
fluctuations  markedly  nor  eliminates  the  significant  intra-  and  intersubject  variability  in  levodopa 
absorption. 
12/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Levodopa + carbidopa + entacapone: When peripheral DDC is inhibited, O-methylation becomes the 
major metabolic route for levodopa. This results in an accumulation of 3-OMD, which is an inactive 
and  potentially  adverse  metabolite.  The  aim  of  adding  a  COMT  inhibitor  to  the  levodopa/DDC 
inhibitor  combination  is  to  reduce  the  formation  of  3-OMD  and  to  increase  and  prolong  the  plasma 
level of levodopa. Pharmacokinetic studies have demonstrated that entacapone increases the AUC and 
prolongs the elimination half-life of levodopa, although it does not increase Cmax when used with a 
standard  levodopa/DDC  inhibitor  preparation.  The  plasma  levels  of  3-OMD  are  significantly 
decreased. Thus, with entacapone, more levodopa is available for transport to the brain. The optimum 
dose  of  entacapone  is  200  mg  with  each  dose  of  levodopa/DDC  inhibitor.  A  population 
pharmacodynamic model showed that the concentration-effect curve of levodopa was not affected by 
entacapone. 
In  summary,  the  following  table  describes  the  effects  of  a  DDC  inhibitor  and  a  DDC  inhibitor  plus 
entacapone on the pharmacokinetics of levodopa 
Variable 
Levodopa +  
DDC inhibitora 
Cmax 
AUC 
tmax 
T1/2 
+ 
+ 
0 
0/+ 
a compared to levodopa alone 
b compared to levodopa + DDC inhibitor 
0, no essential change; +, increase 
Levodopa + 
DDC inhibitor + 
entacaponeb 
0 
+ 
0 
+ 
Benserazide:  Entacapone 
standard 
levodopa/benserazide  preparations  slightly  (5-10%)  more  than  from  standard  levodopa/carbidopa 
preparations. 
bioavailability 
increases 
levodopa 
from 
the 
of 
The placebo-controlled pharmacokinetic study 2939083 addressed the concomitant use of entacapone 
with levodopa/carbidopa products with different levodopa/carbidopa ratios.  The effect of concomitant 
entacapone  200  mg  and  placebo  on  AUC  of  6  different  levodopa/carbidopa  doses  with  different 
levodopa/carbidopa  ratios  was  evaluated  in  a  4-way  cross-over  protocol  and  3  parallel  groups.  The 
results show  that,  after addition  of entacapone,  the  exposure  to levodopa from tablets with  10:1 and 
4:1  levodopa/carbidopa ratios will  increase in the same  proportion whereas, in absolute terms,  more 
from tablets with a ratio of 4:1. This result has implications to the posology of Stalevo when initiating 
the fixed combination.  
• 
Bioequivalence studies on the LCE products: 
The bridge from the reference products Sinemet (a fixed combination of levodopa and carbidopa) and 
Comtess/Comtan  (entacapone)  is  based  on  four  new  pharmacokinetic  studies  (Studies  2939085, 
2939093,  2939095,  and  2939096)  that  support  the  bioequivalence  of  the  LCE  product  and  the 
reference products. 
The studies had a randomised single dose replicated cross-over design. The applicant used the 4 period 
-  2  sequence  design  and  not  the  conventional  2  period  –  2  sequence  design.  Following  CPMP’s 
request,  the  applicant  analysed  the  data  on  "2-period-2-sequence  basis"  using  the  first  two  periods 
only.  The  results  of  these  analyses  were  closely  similar  to  the  results  originally  submitted  and 
summarised in the present report. 
The studies involved healthy cucasian adults. In one study (2939085), they were young (< 41 years) 
males, and in three studies middle aged or elderly people (45 - 80 years). 
13/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The analytical methods were sufficiently validated and the statistical methods were in compliance with 
the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence.  
Concentrations  of  levodopa  and  carbidopa  in  plasma  were  analysed  using  reversed-phase  ion-pair 
high-performance  liquid  chromatography  (HPLC)  with  calorimetric  detection.  The  limit  of 
quantification  was  set  at  20  ng/ml  for  levodopa  and  5  ng/ml  for  carbidopa.  Analysis  of  entacapone 
concentration in plasma  was carried out by  reversed-phase  HPLC with amperometric  detection. The 
limit of quantification was set at 10 ng/ml of entacapone. 
In accordance to the previous CPMP scientific advice, the applicant was allowed to establish broader 
limits  for  the  Cmax  values  of  entacapone  in  agreement  with  the  concept  of  highly  variable  drugs, 
provided  that  the  broader  limits  were  pre-specified  in  the  protocols  for  evaluation  of  the 
bioequivalence. This was done but only occasionally these broader limits were needed to consider the 
bioequivalence. For the large majority of the parameters in all studies, bioequivalence was established 
within the usual Confidence Intervals [0.80-1.20]. 
In  general,  the  bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  (see  the  Table  1  for  AUC  and  Table  2  for 
Cmax). 
Table 1:  AUC data (h.ng/ml) for levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone in four bioequivalence 
studies in healthy subjects 
Study 
Substance  Dose 
(mg) 
Test 
product 
Test 
(mean±SD) 
Reference 
(mean±SD) 
2939085  Levodopa 
2939093  Levodopa 
100 
100 
LCE 100 
1757 ± 359 
1756 ± 344 
LCE 100 
2840 ± 697 
2745 ± 708 
2939095  Levodopa 
50 
LCE 50 
998 ± 310 
970 ± 287 
Geom. 
mean 
ratio 
1.00 
1.04 
1.03 
90% 
Log 
CI 
0.97 – 1.04 
1.01 – 1.07 
0.98 – 1.08 
2939096  Levodopa 
150 
LCE 150 
3717 
1101 
± 
3824 
1116 
± 
0.97 
0.94 – 1.01 
2939085  Carbidopa 
2939093  Carbidopa 
2939095  Carbidopa 
2939096  Carbidopa 
25 
25 
12.5 
37.5 
LCE 100 
431 ±169 
420 ± 166 
LCE 100 
633 ± 211 
645 ± 220 
LCE 50 
150 ± 64 
150 ± 56 
LCE 150 
488 ± 180 
551 ± 192 
1.02 
0.98 
0.98 
0.88 
0.94 – 1.11 
0.92 – 1.04 
0.92 – 1.05 
0.82 – 0.93 
2939085  Entacapon
e 
2939093  Entacapon
e 
2939095  Entacapon
e 
2939096  Entacapon
e 
200 
LCE 100 
1234 ± 373 
1228 ± 350 
1.00 
0.95 – 1.05 
200 
LCE 100 
1439 ± 377 
1383 ± 357 
1.05 
1.01 – 1.09 
200 
LCE 50 
1249 ± 522 
1255 ± 424 
0.96 
0.92 – 1.00 
200 
LCE 150 
1233 ± 373 
1216 ± 440 
1.03 
0.98 – 1.08 
AUC0-10h in the studies 2939085, 2939093, 2939095; AUC0-12h in the study 2939096 
14/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2:  Cmax data (ng/ml) for levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone in four bioequivalence 
studies in  healthy subjects 
Study 
Substance  Dose 
(mg) 
Test 
product 
Test 
(mean±SD
) 
Reference 
(mean±SD
) 
Geom. 
mean 
ratio 
Log  90% 
CI 
2939085  Levodopa 
2939093  Levodopa 
100 
100 
LCE 100 
653 ± 165 
704 ± 189 
0.93 
0.88 – 0.98
LCE 100 
975 ± 247 
1036 
308 
± 
0.96 
0.91 – 1.00
2939095  Levodopa 
50 
LCE 50 
473 ± 154 
489 ± 153 
0.96 
0.90 – 1.03
2939096  Levodopa 
150 
LCE 150 
1272 
329 
± 
1384 
445 
± 
0.94 
0.89 – 0.99
2939085  Carbidopa 
2939093  Carbidopa 
25 
25 
LCE 100 
99 ± 39 
98 ± 37 
LCE 100 
125 ± 42 
126 ± 42 
2939095  Carbidopa 
12.5  LCE 50 
39 ± 16 
39 ± 14 
2939096  Carbidopa 
37.5  LCE 150 
107 ± 42 
121 ± 45 
1.00 
0.98 
0.98 
0.88 
0.93 – 1.08
0.92 – 1.04
0.91 – 1.06
0.82 – 0.94
2939085  Entacapon
200 
LCE 100 
e 
2939093  Entacapon
200 
LCE 100 
e 
2939095  Entacapon
200 
LCE 50 
e 
2939096  Entacapon
200 
LCE 150 
e 
1016 
503 
1259 
712 
1199 
884 
1211 
738 
± 
± 
± 
± 
1020 
511 
1070 
460 
1152 
558 
1052 
792 
± 
0.99 
0.88 – 1.11
± 
1.12 
1.00 – 1.26
± 
0.94 
0.84 – 1.06
± 
1.18 
1.03 – 1.35
Pharmacokinetics in the elderly 
After  combination  of  carbidopa  with  levodopa,  the  absorption  of  levodopa  is  similar  between  the 
elderly and the young, but the AUC is 1.5 fold greater in the elderly due to decreased DDC inhibitor 
activity and lower clearance by aging. Entacapone pharmacokinetics are independent of age. 
Three  studies  (2939093,  2939095  and  2939096)  were  carried  out  in  healthy  volunteers  including 
elderly  people.  In  these  studies,  totally  57  out  of  132  volunteers  were  at  least  60  years  of  age,  and 
further 27 at least 65 years of age. Age had a significant effect on the oral bioavailability of levodopa, 
as  expected  according  to  literature.  In  study  2939096  with  the  levodopa  dose  of  150  mg,  this  effect 
was not statistically significant. According to subgroup analysis of data in the elderly, higher AUC0-t 
values  of  levodopa  were  noticed  with  the  LCE  50/12.5/200  mg  tablet  strength  but  not  with  the  two 
other tablet strengths in subjects over the age of 65 years.  Since dosing of levodopa in parkinsonian 
patients  is  individually  adjusted  according  to  clinical  response,  this  finding  is  not  considered  to  be 
clinically  relevant.  Elderly  volunteers  tended  to  have  also  higher  AUC  of  entacapone  after  200  mg 
dose. There was no difference in effect of age between LCE combination and LC + E. 
Effect of gender 
Effect of gender on pharmacokinetics was studied in subgroup analyses. There existed a tendency for 
higher bioavailability of levodopa in women (primarily due to the difference in body weight), but the 
difference  between  the  genders  was  statistically  significant  only  in  study  2939093.  The  weight-
adjusted AUC of levodopa in women was on average 40 % greater than that in men after 100 mg dose 
of  levodopa.  No  statistically  significant  gender-effect  was  observed  in  AUCs  of  two  other  active 
ingredients. 
15/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of food on bioavailability  
When levodopa is taken without any food there is a very fast, but brief increase in plasma levels. All 
PK-studies with LCE combnation tablet were carried out in standardised conditions after an over-night 
fast.    The  effect  of  food  on  the  rate  and  extent  of  absorption  of  fixed  dose  combination  tablets  of 
levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone has not been evaluated.   
Renal and hepatic impairments 
The metabolism of entacapone is slowed in patients with mild to moderate liver insufficiency (Child-
Pugh  Class  A  and  B)  leading  to  an  increased  plasma  concentration  of  entacapone  both  in  the 
absorption  and  elimination  phases.  No  particular  studies  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  carbidopa  and 
levodopa in patients with hepatic impairment are reported. Therefore, Stalevo should be administered 
cautiously  to  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  disease.  Severe  hepatic  impairment  is  a 
contraindication. 
Renal  impairment  does  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  entacapone.  No  particular  studies  are 
reported  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  levodopa  and  carbidopa  in  patients  with  renal  impairment. 
Therefore, Stalevo should be administered cautiously to patients with severe renal impairment. 
Clinical efficacy  
Levodopa/carbidopa 
Standard levodopa was never tested against placebo. However, the symptomatic benefits of levodopa 
are indisputable. Levodopa is generally very effective in controlling the cardinal signs of PD, such as 
rigidity,  hypokinesia  and  tremor.  Virtually  all  patients  respond  favourably  to  levodopa  initially. 
During  the  early  stages,  the  clinical  response  following  a  single  levodopa  dose  is  stable  and  long- 
lasting  (several  hours  or  even  days).  Unfortunately,  the  majority  of  PD  patients  develop  motor 
complications,  such  as  motor  fluctuations  (ON-OFF  fluctuations,  wearing  off  phenomena)  and 
dyskinesias,  during  long-term  therapy.  The  clinical  benefit  after  a  single  dose  of  levodopa 
progressively  shortens.  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  more  constant  plasma  levodopa  levels  are, 
the  less  fluctuation  the  patient  has.  Several  approaches  have  been  used  to  achieve  a  more  constant 
levodopa plasma profile, e.g. by producing controlled-release levodopa preparations or by combining 
entacapone with levodopa/carbidopa treatment. Levodopa may not affect the natural progression of the 
disease.  The  question  whether  levodopa  significantly  prolongs  life  is  controversial.  Levodopa 
continues  to  be  effective  throughout  the  course  of  PD  indicating  that  a  complete  tolerance  will  not 
develop to levodopa in chronic use. 
levodopa/carbidopa 
The  efficacy  of 
the  efficacy  of 
levodopa/carbidopa,  the  applicant  refers  to  the  published  literature,  text  books  of  medicine, 
pharmacology, neurology and to summary of product characteristics for levodopa/carbidopa products, 
e.g. Sinemet. 
is  well  established.  With  regard 
to 
Entacapone 
Efficacy  of  the  triple  association  derives  directly  from  the  data  of  the  clinical  development  of 
entacapone. The clinical documentation of the efficacy of entacapone as an adjunct to levodopa/DDCI 
consists  of  two  pivotal  phase  III  6-month  double-blind  studies,  one  pivotal  phase  II  short-term 
crossover double-blind study and five “supportive” small, short-term phase II studies. In two phase III 
double-blind  studies  in  altogether  376  patients  with  Parkinson’s  disease  and  end-of-dose  motor 
fluctuations, entacapone or placebo was given with each levodopa/dopa decarboxylase inhibitor dose.  
The  results  are  given  in  the  following  table.  In  study  I,  daily  ON  time  (hours)  was  measured  from 
home diaries. In study II, the proportion of daily ON time was measured. There were corresponding 
decreases in OFF time. The % change from baseline in OFF time was –24% in the entacapone group 
and 0% in the placebo group in study I. The corresponding figures in study II were –18% and –5%. 
16/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline* 
Week 8-24* 
Entacapone(n=85) 
Mean (±S.D.) 
9.3±2.2 
10.7±2.2 
Baseline** 
Week 8-24** 
Entacapone(n=103) 
60.0±15.2 
66.8±14.5 
* 
** 
daily ON time (h)  
proportion ON time% 
Study I 
Placebo(n=86) 
Mean (±S.D.) 
9.2±2.5 
9.4±2.6 
Study II 
Placebo(n=102) 
60.8±14.0 
62.8±16.80 
Difference 
1h 20 min 
(8.3%) 
CI95% 45 min, 1 h 56 min 
Difference 
4.5% (0 h 35 min) 
CI95% 0.93%, 7.97% 
These  placebo  controlled  pivotal  studies  support  the  efficacy  of  entacapone  as  an  adjunct  to 
levodopa/DDCI  in  the  treatment  of  idiopathic  Parkinson’s  disease  in  patients  with  end-of-dose 
fluctuations.  The  documentation  does  not  support  efficacy  in  non-fluctuating  patients.  Long-term 
efficacy of entacapone has only been demonstrated up to 6 months in double-blind studies. 
The feasibility of the fixed levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone combination 
As  compared  to  the  approved  dosing  of  the  reference  products  (Sinemet  and  Comtess/Comtan),  the 
proposed  dosing  for  Stalevo  would  provide  the  same  dose  of  entacapone,  a  lower  maximal  dose  of 
levodopa  (1500mg/day  vs.  2000mg/day)  and  a  higher  maximal  dose  of  carbidopa  (375mg/day  vs 
200mg/day). 
The LCE tablet fulfils the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic criteria of a fixed combination asset 
by  the  CPMP  note  for  guidance.  Based  on  an  analysis  of  the  levodopa  doses  in  previous  phase  III 
clinical  trials,  Stalevo  strengths  would  cover  more  than  80%  of  the  need  among  patients  with 
fluctuating PD. The fixed combination seems to cover the levodopa dose range of most patients since 
daily  levodopa  dose  rarely  exceeded  1500mg.  About  ten  percent  of  patients  have  a  carbidopa  dose 
exceeding 250mg. Thus, the fixed combination is a feasible option for most patients with a fluctuating 
disease  that  cannot  be  stabilised  on  the  conventional  levodopa/DDC-inhibitor  combination  products, 
especially when the separate entacapone tablet has already been introduced. Nevertheless, flexibility 
of the LCE fixed combination for dose titration and recommendations for the switch to the LCE fixed 
combination were questioned. 
The CPMP questioned whether the LCE tablets provide the same flexibility for levodopa dose titration 
as  the  current  levodopa/carbidopa  tablets,  in  particular  for  patients  who  would  need  less  than  50mg 
reduction  of  levodopa  per  dose.  Individual  daily  doses  not  covered  by  the  3  dose  strengths  are  very 
rare.  Typically,  these  patients  would  have  a  high  daily  levodopa  dose  and  levodopa-associated  AE 
such as dyskinesia. 
An  uncomplicated  switch  to  the  fixed  combination  Stalevo  tablets  is  expected  in  patients  who  are 
already treated with separate conventional levodopa/carbidopa and entacapone tablets that provide the 
same dose of levodopa. According to the analyses of the applicant, such patients comprise a majority 
of the potential target population. 
risk  of  switching  other  patients 
The  possible 
levodopa/carbidopa  or 
levodopa/benserazide  tablets  to  the  fixed  combination  LCE  tablets  is  an  increase  of  dopaminergic 
adverse  effects.  Thus,  a  careful  titration  of  the  levodopa  dose  may  be  necessary  in  cases  where  an 
increased exposure to levodopa is expected. 
fixed  dose 
from 
To  support  recommendations  in  the  proposed  summary  of  product  characteristics  for  switching 
patients  to  the  treatment  with  fixed  LCE  combination,  the  applicant  presented  data  of  two  clinical 
Phase IIIb multicentre studies. 
17/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
levodopa 
patients.  Their 
Switch from levodopa/DDCI and entacapone to LCE 
The primary objective of STUDY 2939098-SIMCOM was to evaluate the potential patient/physician 
preference  of  LCE  compared  to  previous  treatment  with  separately  administered  levodopa/DDC 
inhibitor and entacapone. The other objectives were to investigate the proportion of patients who could 
be successfully switched to LCE. The study was an open, single group, cross-over study and involved 
52 
or/and 
levodopa/benserazide in a standard release formulation. In addition, only one dose of sustained-release 
levodopa for night was allowed in their previous levodopa treatment regimen. The study consisted of 
three  consecutive  periods.  During  the  first  4-week  period,  each  subject  used  his/her  own 
levodopa/DDC  inhibitor  therapy  concomitantly  with  entacapone  (200  mg).  During  the  following  4-
week  treatment  period,  all  subjects  were  treated  with  LCE  tablets.  After  study  treatment  with  LCE, 
each subject returned to his/her  own previous levodopa/DDC  inhibitor and entacapone  treatment for 
the  2-week  follow-up  period.  The  mean  age  of  the  patients  was  61  years,  the  mean  duration  of  the 
disease 8.2 years, and the mean daily levodopa dose 509mg/day. The other key characteristics of the 
original medication were as follows: 
levodopa/carbidopa 
comprised 
treatment 
either 
DDC inhibitor at baseline 
Carbidopa, (%)   
32 (62)   
Benserazide, (%) 
16 (31) 
Both carbidopa and benserazide, (%) 
  4 (8) 
Sustained –release l-dopa at baseline 
16 (31) 
Other antiparkinsonian medication, (%)   
44 (85) 
Dopamine agonists, (%)  
36 (69) 
Selegiline, (%)   
29 (56) 
Amantadine, (%) 
3  (6) 
Biperiden, (%)   
3  (6) 
The mean daily levodopa dose was 24.6 ± 50.9 mg lower with LCE tablets than the levodopa dose at 
baseline  (p<  0.01).  In  60%  of  subjects,  all  the  levodopa  doses  used  at  baseline  were  directly 
replaceable with a LCE tablet containing the same amount of levodopa. The most common reasons for 
the  need  for  dose  adjustment  were  the  use  of  sustained-release  levodopa  dose  at  baseline  and  a 
mismatch in levodopa dose (mg) to LCE tablets. When only subjects using standard-release levodopa 
formulations were observed, in 86% of subjects all levodopa doses were directly replaceable by a LCE 
tablet. In the majority of cases, the switch was successful (see table below). 
Treatment success rate 4 weeks after the switch 
Clinical condition 
Better or no difference 
Better 
No difference 
Worse 
Investigator rating 
N 
44 
12 
32 
8 
% 
85% 
23% 
62% 
15% 
Patient rating 
N 
39 
16 
23 
13 
% 
75% 
31% 
44% 
25% 
Most  patients  (54%)  preferred  the  LCE  treatment  whereas  only  31  %  preferred  the  treatment  with 
separate  levodopa/carbidopa  and  entacapone  tablets.  No  major  problems  were  encountered  after  the 
switch. This clinical trial has a relative small sample size but the enrolled patients are considered fairly 
representative of the target population. The switch was successful in the majority of cases and more 
patients preferred the fixed combination (LCE) than the original treatment. 
18/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct switch from levodopa/DDCI to LCE  
Direct from a standard levodopa/carbidopa combination to Stalevo was discussed since this may often 
require levodopa dose reduction and since Stalevo provides less flexibility for dose modification than 
the separate levodopa/carbidopa combination. 
A  direct  switch  to  Stalevo  is  not  recommended  for  patients  who  have  dyskinesias  or  whose  daily 
levodopa dose is 800mg or more as they will frequently need dose modification (see Table below). 
The percentage of PD patients decreasing levodopa dose by 4-6 
weeks after entacapone initiation as grouped by baseline 
levodopa dose and presence of dyskinesia (data from previous 
studies [2939033, 2939044, 2939063, 2939065]) 
Levodopa 
< 600 mg/day 
(N=180) 
Levodopa 
600-800 mg/day 
(N=153) 
Levodopa 
> 800 mg/day 
(N=105) 
No 
dyskinesia 
(N=159) 
Dyskinesia  
presence 
(N=279) 
4 % 
31 % 
21 % 
43 % 
28 % 
66 % 
An interim analysis of the other phase IIIb study (Study 2939103 - TCINIT) was presented. This study 
focuses  on  the  direct  switch  from  levodopa/DDC-inhibitor  to  the  fixed  combination  (LCE).  PD 
patients without painful dyskinesia experiencing motor fluctuations not stabilized on levodopa/DDCI 
are  enrolled  in  this  study.  Entacapone  (Comtess/Comtan)  administered  as  an  add-on  to  the  original 
levodopa/DDCI  treament  is  used  as  a  control.  All  data  from  patients  treated  for  at  least  two  weeks 
after the switch were extracted from the database and included in the analysis. The study medications 
were  started  on  the  day  following  the  baseline  visit,  i.e.  day  1.  The  study  visits  during  the  study 
treatment period took place at  weeks 1, 2, 4 and 6 (visits 2-5). Additionally, a  mandatory telephone 
contact was scheduled at day three (± 1 day) to assess any adverse events and need for adjustment of 
levodopa daily dosage. A two-week follow-up period took place after the study treatment period and 
the end-of-study visit two weeks later (visit 6, week 8). At the time of the interim analysis, 111 patient 
had been treated for at least 2 weeks, 72 for at least 6 weeks, and 66 had completed the additional 2 
weeks follow up as well.  
The addition of entacapone was successful in both groups as shown by the results at two weeks . At 
six weeks, most patients were doing better than before adding entacapone. Due to the low number of 
patients treated for longer than two weeks, a comparison of the treatment arms was not possible at this 
stage. 
As expected, the percentage  of patients with positive symptoms (i.e. symptoms of fluctuations often 
present) decreased after adding entacapone, either as a separate tablet (control) or as part of the fixed 
combination  tablet.  The  number  of  patients  with  “negative”  symptoms  (e.g.  dyskinesias)  was 
numerically slightly higher when the fixed combination (LCE) was used. 
The results of this interim analysis as well as the separate analysis of previous clinical trials in which 
entacapone was added as a separate tablet provide support for the safety of a direct switch of patients 
with fluctuating Parkinson’s disease from levodopa/DDCI therapy to the fixed LCE combination in a 
subset of patients. The applicant has justified the direct switch from levodopa/carbidopa to the fixed 
combination  in  patients  who  have  no  dyskinesias  and  whose  daily  levodopa  dose  is  less  than 
800mg/day.  These  patients  are  unlikely  to  need  dose  adjustments.  Other  patients  should  first  be 
stabilised with separate levodopa/carbidopa and entacapone tablets since the fixed combination does 
not offer the same degree of flexibility in levodopa dose modification. 
Transferring a patient from levodopa/carbidopa ratio of 10:1 to a ratio of 4:1 
It  was  pointed  out  that  there  is  a  risk  of  CNS  adverse  effects  when  transferring  a  patient  from 
levodopa/carbidopa with a 10:1 ratio to one with 4:1 ratio plus entacapone. 
19/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The analysis of adverse events in the clinical trials showed that, after adding entacapone to levodopa-
carbidopa there was a higher risk of certain adverse events in the 10:1 ratio group, such as dyskinesia  
(40%  vs.  25.9%),  parkinsonism  aggravated  (30%  vs.  13.4%),  and  nausea  (22%  vs.  15.1%).  The 
applicant has made a separate analysis of patients with a levodopa dose < 800mg/day because in the 
higher  dose  category,  the  mean  levodopa  doses  were  higher  in  the  10:1  ratio  group.  This  analysis 
showed  a  smaller  difference  with  regard  to  the  dyskinesia  (29%  vs.  21.2%)  but  a  more  pronounced 
difference for nausea (29% vs. 15.2%). The analysis suggests that there is no major problem when the 
levodopa daily dose is less than 800mg. Nevertheless, patients with a 10:1 ratio of levodopa/carbidopa 
are usually not suitable for a direct switch without first adding entacapone separately. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
According to the applicant, most patients on levodopa/carbidopa and levodopa/benserazide with end-
of-dose motor fluctuations can be switched to the fixed levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone combination. 
Results  of  study  2939098-SIMCOM  seem  to  confirm  the  favourable  benefit/risk  of  a  switch  from 
separate  levodopa/DDC-inhibitor  and  entacapone  to  the  fixed  LCE  combination.  The  doses  of 
levodopa and entacapone matched in most patients. However, for some patients a dose titration may 
become  necessary.  The  same  is  true  for  patients  on  levodopa/benserazide  and  entacapone  and  for 
patients using levodopa/carbidopa with 10:1 ratio instead of 4:1 ratio. 
The  potential  risk  of  a  direct  switch  is  the  aggravation/triggering  of  levodopa-associated  adverse 
effects.  The  CPMP  expressed  a  concern  that  the  possible  levodopa-related  adverse  effects  would  be 
more difficult to manage by dose modification with the fixed LCE combination. Fortunately, the need 
for  a  dose  modification  can  be  predicted  on  the  basis  of  the  presence  of  dyskinesias  and  the  dose. 
Patients  without  dyskinesias  and  with  a  levodopa  dose  less  than  600mg  will  rarely  need  dose 
modification after addition of entacapone, and patients with a dose between 600mg and 800mg have a 
21%  risk  of  dose  modification.  However,  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  that  the  flexibility  of  the 
fixed LCE combination is sufficient for dose modification in most patients.  
The fact that a direct switch is suitable only for a certain subgroup of PD patients is highlighted in the 
SmPC. Thus, it is stated that usually, patients are switched to the fixed LCE combination only after 
they have been stabilised by using separate levodopa/DDCI and entacapone. The recommendation that 
a  direct  switch  is  feasible  only  in  patients  with  a  daily  levodopa  dose  less  than  800mg  and  without 
dyskinesias  is  supported  by  previous  experience.  For  other  patients  it  is  advisable  to  introduce 
entacapone  treatment  as  a  separate  medication  (entacapone  tablets)  and  adjust  the  levodopa  dose  if 
necessary, before switching to Stalevo. 
Patients who are on modified-release levodopa products and patients who are having a daily levodopa 
dose exceeding 1500 mg should not be switched directly to the fixed LCE combination. 
Clinical safety 
Levodopa/carbidopa 
Levodopa/carbidopa has been in extensive clinical use for long time (>25 years) within the EU. Thus, 
the safety profile of this combination is well known. Carbidopa reduces the peripheral side effects of 
levodopa,  such  as  nausea,  vomiting,  hypotension  and  cardiac  arrhythmias,  but  not  the  central  side 
effects.  Motor  fluctuations  and  dyskinesias  are  the  most  problematic  long-term  adverse  effect  of 
levodopa.  The  most  common  form  is  end-of-dose  deterioration  or  wearing-off  phenomenon. 
Entacapone treatment has reduced these fluctuations, as documented in Comtess/Comtan dossier. The 
most  common  levodopa-related  dyskinesia  is  the  so-called  “peak-dose”  dyskinesia,  occurring  when 
the  plasma  levodopa  levels  are  high.  Another  form  of  levodopa-related  dyskinesia  is  the  so-called 
diphasic  dyskinesia.  It  is  characterised  by  a  sequence  of  parkinsonism-dyskinesia-improvement-
dyskinesia-parkinsonism  following  levodopa  administration.  Other  central  side  effects  of  levodopa 
therapy include psychiatric problems, particularly hallucinations, delusions, and nightmares. The risk 
factors  for  neuropsychiatric  adverse  effects  are  increasing  age,  underlying  dementia,  intercurrent 
disease, polytherapy and a prior history of psychiatric disease. 
20/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entacapone 
The safety profile of entacapone when used as adjunct to levodopa/carbidopa is acceptable. The most 
important  undesirable  effects  due  to  entacapone  itself  are  abdominal  pain  and  diarrhoea.  In  the 
majority of the patients these undesirable effects were graded mild or moderate. By adding entacapone 
to L-dopa the dopaminergic side-effects, especially dyskinesia, are increased during on time. 
Safety of the LCE product 
As  compared  to  the  approved  dosing  of  the  reference  products  (Sinemet  and  Comtess/Comtan),  the 
proposed  dosing  for  Stalevo  would  provide  the  same  dose  of  entacapone,  a  lower  maximal  dose  of 
levodopa  (1500mg/day  vs.  2000mg/day)  and  a  higher  maximal  dose  of  carbidopa  (375mg/day  vs 
200mg/day). 
On the basis of preclinical studies, carbidopa is well tolerated a high dose levels. According to the data 
provided, a large proportion of patients who participated in the previous clinical studies of entacapone 
in  combination  with  levodopa/carbidopa  had  carbidopa  doses  exceeding  200mg/day.  The  company 
performed  an  analysis  of  previous  entacapone  studies  with  respect  to  the  safety  of  conventional 
(i.e.<200mg)  and  high  (i.e.>200mg/day)  carbidopa  doses  in  their  clinical  trial  database.  With  the 
exception  of  dyskinesia  (29.1  vs  18%)  and  hyperkinesias  (14.5  vs.  6.9%),  there  were  no  striking 
increases in the incidence of adverse events in the high carbidopa dose group as compared to the low 
dose group. The same difference was seen in the high and low benserazide groups, suggesting that the 
difference  was  not  due  to  the  DCC-inhibitor  but  rather  due  to  the  higher  mean  levodopa  dose.  The 
incidence of serious adverse events was also higher in the high carbidopa dose group as compared to 
the  low  dose  group.  The  difference  was  seen  in  the  categories  of  gastrointestinal  system  disorders, 
body  as  a  whole  –  general  disorders,  and  musculoskeletal  and  connective  tissue  disorders.  By 
screening the list of SAEs in the high carbidopa dose group, no specific patterns could be observed. 
The  central  nervous  system  effects  were  compatible  with  a  levodopa  effect.  Again,  the  incidence  of 
serious adverse events was also higher for the high dose benserazide groups as compared to the low 
dose group. In conclusion, the differences between the low and high carbidopa dose groups in terms of 
tolerability were apparently due to the effects of concomitant levodopa.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
Bioequivalence  studies  demonstrated  that  the  new  LCE  products  produce  essentially  similar  plasma 
levels of levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone as the separate products. Particularly, no exceptionally 
high levels of entacapone were observed after the test products compared to the reference products. In 
these circumstances, the safety profile and vital signs were comparable between products. 
Apart from the safety profile as established with entacapone (Contess/Contan) dossier, the safety of a 
higher  maximal  carbidopa  dose  was  questioned.  The  analysis  provided  by  the  applicant  provided 
assurance for the safety of carbidopa doses between 200 and 375mg.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no outstanding quality issues, which have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance.  As a follow-
up measure, the applicant will provide data concerning additional analytical methodology, plus further 
stability results when available 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The applicant has included a WEU-justification covering all the indents of Directive 2001/83/EC set 
out  in  Annex  I  Part  3  (I)  and  Part  4(I)  for  the  use  of  levodopa/carbidopa.  Therefore,  the  legal  basis 
under which the application has been submitted (Article 10 (1) ii) of Directive 2001/83/EC) is valid. 
The demonstration of the well-established use of levodopa/carbidopa is also in line with the draft Note 
for  Guidance on  the  Non-clinical  documentation of medicinal  products with  well-established  use  by 
the SWP/CPMP.  
21/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  summary of the  applicant  of the previously  submitted  preclinical  documentation concerning the 
concomitant  use  of levodopa/carbidopa and entacapone  demonstrates that no  new  preclinical studies 
of the safety of the combined use are necessary.  
The presence of new impurities in the product does not seem to change the toxicity profile of the LCE 
product and therefore do not affect significantly the benefit/risk of the LCE product. 
Efficacy 
The  fixed  combination  of  levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone  (LCE)  fulfills  the  requirements  of  the 
CPMP Note for guidance on fixed combination medicinal products in that all components contribute 
to the efficacy and that there are no (unknown) adverse PK or PD interactions. The pharmacokinetics 
of the individual components are also compatible. Bioequivalence has been demonstrated according to 
the CPMP Note for guidance on the investigation of bioavailability and bioequivalence. 
The applicant has shown that the selected strengths will sufficiently cover the doses used in the current 
clinical praxis. 
The clinical benefit of fixed combination products would be, primarily, the simplification of therapy. 
The reduction of the number of tablets to be swallowed is clinically relevant in advanced PD patients, 
who may have difficulties in swallowing and who often have to take multiple medicinal products for 
their  PD  and  for  concomitant  diseases.  Interim  results  of  two  ongoing  small  clinical  studies  support 
the feasibility of the fixed LCE combination. 
The  switch  from  the  fixed  combination  levodopa/carbidopa  tablets  and  entacapone  tablets  taken 
separately to a fixed combination LCE product should be non-problematic when the dose of levodopa 
in  the  fixed  LCE  combination  match  with  the  levodopa  dose  before  the  switch.  For  other  patients 
already on both levodopa/carbidopa and entacapone, a dose titration may become necessary. The same 
is true for patients on levodopa/benserazide and entacapone.  
The  proposed  fixed  combination  does  not  provide  the  same  flexibility  for  the  titration  of  levodopa 
dose as the reference product. However, based on data provided, situations where the levodopa dose 
provided by the fixed LCE combination does not match with the desired levodopa dose are rare. 
The issue of levodopa dose titration is highlighted in the situation when patients with a fluctuating PD 
will  be  transferred  directly  from  a  fixed  combination  levodopa/carbidopa  to  the  fixed  LCE 
combination.  On  the  basis  of  previous  experience,  it  is  expected  that  the  switch  will  be  feasible  in 
patients  who  are  not  likely  to  require  dose  modifications,  i.e.  patients  with  relatively  low  levodopa 
daily  doses  and  without  dyskinesias.  Data  from  previous  clinical 
trials  with  entacapone 
(Comtess/Comtan) as well as preliminary data from ongoing studies with the fixed LCE combination 
suggest that patients with a levodopa dose less than 800mg and without dyskinesias will rarely need 
dose  titration.  For  other  patients,  a  dose  titration  with  levodopa/levodopa  tablets  and  with  separate 
entacapone tablets is recommended.  
Patients who are on modified-release levodopa products and patients who are having a daily levodopa 
dose exceeding 1500mg should not be switched to the fixed LCE combination. 
The SPC has been revised accordingly. (see section 4.2) 
Safety 
Based on available data, the safety of the LCE fixed combination products should be comparable with 
the  data  obtained  from  the  previous  clinical  studies  of  entacapone  with  separate  levodopa/DDC 
inhibitor and from the post-marketing period of entacapone. 
Safety  information  related  to  the  individual  components  have  been  included  in  the  summary  of 
product characteristics. 
The safety of the fixed combination will be monitored in the PSURs. Special emphasis will be placed 
on switch-related AEs. 
22/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the well-established use of levodopa/carbidopa, the efficacy and safety data of entacapone in 
association  with  levodopa/carbidopa,  the  bioequivalence  between  the  LCE  fixed  combination  and 
levodopa/carbidopa plus entacapone, and the practical advantage of the fixed combination, the CPMP 
considered that the benefit-risk of the fixed combination was positive in the following indication: 
“Stalevo  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  Parkinson’s  disease  and  end-of-dose  motor 
fluctuations not stabilised on levodopa/dopa decarboxylase (DDC) inhibitor treatment.” 
”Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Stalevo  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations not stabilised on levodopa/dopa decarboxylase 
(DDC) inhibitor treatment.  
23/23 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
  
