EMA/562295/2011  
EMEA/H/C/000511 
EPAR summary for the public 
Stalevo 
Levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Stalevo. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Stalevo. 
What is Stalevo? 
Stalevo is a medicine that contains three active substances: levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone. It is 
available as a range of tablets in seven strengths, containing 50 to 200 mg levodopa and 12.5 to 
50 mg carbidopa. All of the tablets contain 200 mg entacapone 
What is Stalevo used for? 
Stalevo is used to treat adults with Parkinson’s disease. Parkinson’s disease is a progressive brain 
disorder that causes shaking, slow movement and muscle stiffness. Stalevo is used in patients who are 
being treated with a combination of levodopa and an inhibitor of dopa decarboxylase (two standard 
treatments for Parkinson’s disease) but are having ‘fluctuations’ towards the end of the period between 
two doses of their medication. Fluctuations happen when the effects of the medication wear off and 
symptoms re-emerge. They are linked with a reduction in the effect of levodopa, when the patient 
experiences sudden switches between being ‘on’ and able to move, and being ‘off’ and having difficulty 
moving about. Stalevo is used when these fluctuations cannot be treated with the standard 
combination alone. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription 
How is Stalevo used? 
Each Stalevo tablet contains one complete dose of levodopa, in seven strengths, with corresponding 
amounts of carbidopa and entacapone to improve its effectiveness. The strength of Stalevo that the 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patient should use is based on the amount of levodopa they need to control their symptoms. See the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (also part of the EPAR) for full instructions on how patients should 
be switched to Stalevo, and on how the dose is adjusted during treatment. 
The maximum daily dose of Stalevo is 10 tablets, except for the tablets containing 200 mg levodopa 
and 50 mg carbidopa, for which the maximum daily dose is seven tablets. Stalevo tablets should be 
taken whole, with or without food. They should be used with caution in patients with mild to moderate 
problems with their liver or severe problems with their kidneys. They should not be used in patients 
with severe liver problems. 
How does Stalevo work? 
In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the cells in the brain that produce the neurotransmitter dopamine 
begin to die and the amount of dopamine in the brain decreases. The patients then lose their ability to 
control their movements reliably. All of the active substances in Stalevo work to restore the levels of 
dopamine in the parts of the brain that control movement and co-ordination. 
Levodopa is converted into dopamine in the brain. Both carbidopa and entacapone block some of the 
enzymes that are involved in the breakdown of levodopa in the body: carbidopa blocks the enzyme 
dopa decarboxylase, and entacapone blocks the enzyme catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT). As a 
result, levodopa remains active for longer. This helps to improve the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, 
such as stiffness and slowness of movement. 
Entacapone has been authorised in the European Union (EU) as Comtess/Comtan since 1998. The use 
of combinations of levodopa and carbidopa is well established, having being in use since the 
mid-1970s. Having all three substances in the same tablet can lower the number of tablets the 
patients have to take and help them stick to treatment. 
How has Stalevo been studied? 
The company used some of the data from Comtess/Comtan to support the use of Stalevo and 
presented data from the published literature for levodopa and carbidopa. 
The company carried out ‘bioequivalence’ studies to show that taking Stalevo produces the same levels 
of levodopa, carbidopa and entecapone in the blood as taking separate tablets containing entacapone 
and the combination of levodopa and carbidopa. 
What benefit has Stalevo shown during the studies? 
The studies showed that Stalevo is bioequivalent to the separate tablets. 
What is the risk associated with Stalevo? 
The most common side effects with Stalevo (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are dyskinesia 
(uncontrollable movements), aggravated Parkinsonism (worsening of Parkinson’s disease), nausea 
(feeling sick) and harmless urine discoloration. For the full list of all side effects reported with Stalevo, 
see the package leaflet. 
Stalevo should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to levodopa, carbidopa, 
entacapone or any of the other ingredients. Stalevo must not be used in patients with: 
severe liver disease; 
narrow-angle glaucoma (increased pressure within the eye); 
Stalevo  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
phaeochromocytoma (a tumour of the adrenal gland); 
a history of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (a dangerous nervous system disorder usually caused by 
antipsychotic medicines) or rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of muscle fibres). 
Stalevo must not be used together with other medicines that belong to the group ‘monoamine oxidase 
inhibitors’ (a type of antidepressant). See the summary of product characteristics (also part of the 
EPAR) for full details. 
Why has Stalevo been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Stalevo’s benefits are greater than its risks for the treatment of patients with 
Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations not stabilised on levodopa/dopa decarboxylase 
inhibitor treatment. The Committee recommended that Stalevo be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Stalevo 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Stalevo to on 17 October 2008.  
The full EPAR for Stalevo can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Stalevo, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2011. 
Stalevo  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
 
