Summary of the risk management plan for Steglatro (ertugliflozin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Steglatro. The RMP details 
important risks of Steglatro, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Steglatro's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Steglatro’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Steglatro should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Steglatro should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Steglatro’s RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
Steglatro is authorised for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in adult patients as an 
adjunct to diet and exercise (see SmPC for the full indication).  
It contains ertugliflozin as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Steglatro’s benefits can be found in Steglatro’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/steglatro 
II. 
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Steglatro, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Steglatro's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Steglatro is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Steglatro are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Steglatro. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Table II.A.1: 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
DKA with atypical presentation 
None 
Use in pregnancy and breastfeeding 
Use in patients with CHF Class IV 
 
 
 
 
 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
Table II.B.1: 
Important Identified Risk: DKA with Atypical Presentation 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Review of ertugliflozin clinical trial data regarding DKA with Atypical 
Presentation and recognition of this as an SGLT2 inhibitor class effect 
represents sufficient evidence of a causal association with ertugliflozin 
exposure. 
Factors predisposing patients to DKA include situations of decreased insulin 
and/or increase glucagon such as T1DM, pancreatic insulin deficiency, 
decreased caloric intake, insulin dose reduction, or increased insulin 
requirements due to acute medical illness or surgery, and alcohol abuse. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
SmPC Section 4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
SmPC Section 4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 8835-062/Post-authorization safety study (PASS) to assess the risk of 
diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) among type 2 diabetes mellitus patients treated 
with ertugliflozin compared to patients treated with other antihyperglycaemic 
agents 
Table II.B.2: 
Important Missing Information: Use in Pregnancy and 
Breastfeeding 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6 Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Table II.B.3: 
Important Missing Information: Use in Patients With CHF 
Class IV 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Steglatro. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Study Title: 
Study 8835-062/Post-authorization safety study (PASS) to assess the risk of diabetic 
ketoacidosis (DKA) among type 2 diabetes mellitus patients treated with ertugliflozin 
compared to patients treated with other antihyperglycaemic agents 
Purpose of the study: 
To assess the risk of DKA in new users of ertugliflozin, compared with new users of other 
non-SGLT2-inhibitor antihyperglycaemic agents. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
