EMA/533007/2021EMEA/H/C/004315 
Steglatro (ertugliflozin) 
An overview of Steglatro and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Steglatro and what is it used for? 
Steglatro is a medicine used to treat adults with type 2 diabetes together with diet and exercise. 
Steglatro can be used in combination with other diabetes medicines or on its own in patients who 
cannot take metformin. 
Steglatro contains the active substance ertugliflozin. 
How is Steglatro used? 
Steglatro is available as tablets. The dose depends on how well the patient’s glucose (sugar) levels are 
controlled.  
The doctor will check how well the patient’s kidneys are working before treatment and regularly during 
treatment. The dose of Steglatro may be reduced or it may be stopped if the kidneys are not working 
well enough. Treatment will not be started if the kidney function is too poor. 
For more information about using Steglatro, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. Steglatro can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Steglatro work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The result is a high level of 
glucose in the blood. 
The active substance in Steglatro, ertugliflozin, helps to lower glucose in the blood by making the 
patient pass out glucose in the urine. It does this by blocking a protein in the kidneys (called SGLT2) 
that normally takes glucose back into the blood from the kidneys. 
What benefits of Steglatro have been shown in studies? 
Seven main studies in around 4,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have shown that ertugliflozin helps 
lower glucose levels on its own and in combination with other diabetes medicine. The studies looked 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
mainly at effects on levels of HbA1c (a measure of blood glucose) after six months or one year of 
treatment. At the start of the studies, patients’ HbA1c level was above 7 percentage points. The results 
were as follows: 
•  A study of ertugliflozin on its own, showed that levels of HbA1c fell by between 0.8 points and 1 
point in patients who took the medicine compared with a rise of 0.2 points in patients receiving 
placebo (a dummy treatment). 
•  A second study found that in patients taking a combination of ertugliflozin and metformin, HbA1c 
levels fell by around 0.8 points, compared with a reduction of 0.03 points when placebo was added 
to metformin.  
•  A third study found that a combination of ertugliflozin at a 15 mg dose with metformin was about 
as effective as a combination of metformin with another diabetes medicine, glimepiride. HbA1c 
levels fell by 0.6 points with ertugliflozin and 0.7 points with glimepiride. A lower dose of 
ertugliflozin 5 mg was less effective. 
•  A fourth study found that, in patients taking metformin, adding ertugliflozin was as effective as 
adding sitagliptin (another diabetes medicine), with HbA1c levels falling by around 1 point with 
both treatments. HbA1c levels fell by a further 0.5 points when both medicines were added to 
metformin. 
•  A fifth study found that adding ertugliflozin to a combination of sitagliptin and metformin was more 
effective than placebo. HbA1c levels fell by between 0.8 and 0.9 points when ertugliflozin was 
added, compared with a fall of 0.1 with placebo. 
•  A sixth study found that adding the combination of ertugliflozin and sitagliptin to diet and exercise 
was much more effective than placebo, with HbA1c levels falling by between 1.6 and 1.7 points 
with the combination of ertugliflozin and sitagliptin compared with a fall of 0.4 points with placebo. 
•  A seventh study showed that ertugliflozin was not more effective than placebo in patients with 
moderate kidney impairment. The data from this study showed that the effect of ertugliflozin 
reduces when the kidneys do not work properly. 
In addition to lowering glucose levels, studies showed that ertugliflozin helped reduce patients’ 
bodyweight and risk of heart failure. 
What are the risks associated with Steglatro? 
The most common side effects with Steglatro (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are fungal 
infections of the vagina and other infections of the female reproductive system and urinary tract 
infections.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Steglatro, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Steglatro authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Steglatro‘s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
The Agency considered that Steglatro can treat patients with type 2 diabetes on its own and in 
combination with other diabetes medicines. In addition, Steglatro can help some patients lose weight 
and may reduce the risk of heart failure. Because ertugliflozin has less effect on blood sugar in patients 
whose kidney function is reduced, combining Steglatro with other medicines that lower blood sugar 
may need to be considered in such patients. 
Steglatro (ertugliflozin)  
EMA/533007/20212021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Steglatro? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Steglatro have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Steglatro is continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Steglatro are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Steglatro 
Steglatro received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 March 2018. 
Further information on Steglatro can be found on the Agency’s website:  
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/steglatro  
This overview was last updated in 10-2021. 
Steglatro (ertugliflozin)  
EMA/533007/20212021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
