25 July 2019 
EMA/523745/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ustekinumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003085/201812 
Period covered by the PSUR: 30 December 2017 – 30 December 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for ustekinumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Organising pneumonia 
The MAH was asked to provide a cumulative review of pulmonary fibrotic and remodelling events in the 
current PSUR. Considering the biological plausibility (ustekinumab already causes allergic alveolitis and 
eosinophilic pneumonia), the three cases suggestive of positive dechallenge and the incidence compared to 
the background rate, the PRAC concluded on a causal association between ustekinumab and organising 
pneumonia. The PRAC is also of the view that HCPs should be made aware that ustekinumab can cause 
organising pneumonia, as withdrawal of the drug could help to resolve the condition. Hence, an update to 
the SmPC is warranted in relation to organising pneumoniaas follows:  update of section 4.4 of the SmPC to 
amend the warning on systemic and respiratory hypersensitivity reactions. Update of section 4.8 of the 
SmPC to add the adverse reaction organising pneumonia with a frequency very rare. The Package leaflet is 
updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ustekinumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing ustekinumab is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/523745/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
