15 September 2022 
EMA/884594/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ustekinumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003085/202112 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for ustekinumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows: 
In view of available data on excretion in breastmilk and use in lactation from the literature and 
spontaneous reports, the PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing 
ustekinumab should be amended accordingly. 
In view of the available data on cutaneous lupus erythematosus and lupus-like syndrome from 
spontaneous reports and the literature, including in some cases a close temporal relationship and a 
positive dechallenge, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between ustekinumab and cutaneous lupus 
and lupus-like syndrome is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product 
information of products containing ustekinumab should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on opportunistic infections including reactivation of tuberculosis, opportunistic 
fungal infections and encephalitis caused by herpes simplex 2 from the literature and spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal relationship and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the 
PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing ustekinumab should be amended 
accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ustekinumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing ustekinumab is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/884594/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
