EMA/19731/2020  
EMEA/H/C/000958 
Stelara (ustekinumab) 
An overview of Stelara and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Stelara and what is it used for? 
Stelara is a medicine used to treat: 
•  moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin). It is used 
in adults and children above the age of 6 years whose condition has not improved with, or who 
cannot use, other systemic (whole-body) psoriasis treatments, such as ciclosporin, methotrexate 
or PUVA (psoralen ultraviolet A). PUVA is a type of treatment where the patient receives a 
medicine called psoralen, before being exposed to ultraviolet light; 
• 
active psoriatic arthritis (inflammation of the joints associated with psoriasis) in adults, when the 
condition has not improved enough with other treatments called disease-modifying anti-rheumatic 
drugs (DMARDs). Stelara may be used alone or combined with methotrexate (a DMARD); 
•  moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (a disease-causing inflammation of the gut) in adults 
whose condition has not improved enough with other treatments for Crohn’s disease or who cannot 
receive such treatments; 
•  moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (inflammation of the large intestine causing 
ulceration and bleeding) in adults whose condition has not improved enough with other treatments 
for ulcerative colitis or who cannot receive such treatments. 
Stelara contains the active substance ustekinumab. 
How is Stelara used? 
Stelara can only be obtained with a prescription and should be given under the supervision of a doctor 
who has experience in diagnosing and treating the diseases that Stelara is used for. 
In plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, Stelara is injected under the skin. For adults the usual dose 
is 45 mg, whereas in children with plaque psoriasis the dose depends on their bodyweight. The dose in 
patients weighing over 100 kg is 90 mg for psoriasis, and this dose may also be considered for 
psoriatic arthritis. The first injection is followed by a further injection 4 weeks later, and then an 
injection every 12 weeks.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
In Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, treatment is started with Stelara infusion (drip) into a vein 
over at least 1 hour. The dose depends on the patient’s bodyweight. Eight weeks after the first 
infusion, a dose of 90 mg is injected under the skin. Patients then continue with Stelara injected under 
the skin every 8 or 12 weeks depending on how well the treatment is working. 
Patients or their caregivers may inject Stelara under the skin once they have been trained, if their 
doctor thinks that this is appropriate. For more information about using Stelara, see the package 
leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Stelara work? 
The active substance in Stelara, ustekinumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to a specific target in the body. Ustekinumab attaches to 2 
messenger molecules in the immune system called interleukin 12 and interleukin 23. Both are involved 
in inflammation and other processes that are important in psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease 
and ulcerative colitis. By blocking their activity, ustekinumab reduces the activity of the immune 
system and the symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Stelara have been shown in studies? 
Plaque psoriasis 
In the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, Stelara was more effective than placebo (a 
dummy treatment) in 2 main studies involving a total of 1,996 adult patients. In over half of these 
patients, other treatments for psoriasis had not worked, were not tolerated or could not be taken by 
the patients. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients whose symptom score 
improved by 75% or more after 12 weeks. Taking the results of the 2 main studies in adults together, 
symptoms improved in around 69% of the patients receiving Stelara after 12 weeks, compared with 
around 3% of the patients receiving placebo. 
Longer-term results from these studies showed that with continuous treatment for 5 years, 
improvement of symptoms with Stelara is maintained. A study comparing Stelara with etanercept 
(another medicine used for psoriasis) found that Stelara is more effective than etanercept after 12 
weeks of treatment. 
Two studies were carried out in children with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. The main measure 
of effectiveness for both studies was the number of patients whose symptom score improved after 
treatment for 12 weeks. The first study involved 110 children aged between 12 and 18 years. The 
children received placebo or Stelara. Around 69% of children who received Stelara achieved a score of 
cleared or minimal, compared with 5% of patients receiving placebo. The second study involved 44 
children aged between 6 and 11 years. All children received Stelara and this was not compared to any 
other treatment. Around 77% of children achieved a score of cleared or minimal. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
In the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis, Stelara was compared with placebo in 2 main studies 
involving a total of 927 adult patients whose condition was not controlled well enough with previous 
treatments. In both studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients whose 
symptom score improved after 24 weeks. In the first study, symptom score improved in around 42% 
of those given Stelara 45 mg and 50% of those given 90 mg, compared with around 23% of those 
Stelara (ustekinumab)  
EMA/19731/2020  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
given placebo. In the second study, symptom score improved in around 44% of those given either 
dose of Stelara, compared with around 20% of those given placebo.  
Crohn's disease 
In the treatment of Crohn’s disease, Stelara (given by infusion) was compared with placebo in 2 main 
studies involving 1,369 patients with moderately to severely active disease. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the number of patients whose symptom score improved 6 weeks after the infusion. 
In the first study, symptom score improved in around 34% patients who received Stelara compared 
with 21% of patients receiving placebo. In the second study the figures were 56% for Stelara and 29% 
for placebo. 
Some patients from the 2 main studies went on to receive Stelara (injected under the skin) every 8 or 
12 weeks, or placebo. After 44 weeks of starting treatment by injection under the skin, 53% of 
patients on Stelara every 8 weeks and 49% of patients on Stelara every 12 weeks had a significant 
reduction in symptoms of Crohn’s disease, compared with 36% of patients on placebo.  
Ulcerative colitis 
In the treatment of ulcerative colitis, Stelara (given by infusion) was compared with placebo in 2 main 
studies. The first study involved 961 patients with moderately to severely active disease. The main 
measure of effectiveness was the number of patients whose symptoms were gone or almost gone 8 
weeks after the infusion. Symptoms were gone or almost gone in 16% of patients who received Stelara 
compared with 5% of patients receiving placebo.  
In the second study, a total of 523 patients from the first study whose symptoms had improved with 
Stelara went on to receive the medicine (injected under the skin) every 8 or 12 weeks, or placebo. 
After 44 weeks of starting treatment by injection under the skin, symptoms of ulcerative colitis were 
gone or almost gone in 44% of patients on Stelara every 8 weeks and 38% of patients on Stelara 
every 12 weeks, compared with 24% of patients on placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Stelara? 
The most common side effects with Stelara (seen in more than 1 in 20 during clinical trials) are 
headache and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat). The most serious side effect 
reported with Stelara is serious hypersensitivity (allergic reaction). For the full list of side effects of 
Stelara, see the package leaflet. 
Stelara must not be used in patients who have an active infection that the doctor considers important. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Stelara approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Stelara’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU.  
The Agency considered that studies had shown that Stelara was effective in the treatment of adults 
and children over 6 years of age with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in whom other treatments 
had not worked or could not be used.  
Stelara (ustekinumab)  
EMA/19731/2020  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
For adults with psoriatic arthritis whose condition had not improved enough with DMARDs, the Agency 
noted that limited treatments were available and considered that Stelara would be of benefit in these 
patients. 
In Crohn’s disease, the effects of Stelara in reducing symptoms in patients in whom other treatments 
had not worked or could not be used were considered important, also given the unmet medical need of 
these patients. The side effects of the medicine were considered manageable. 
In ulcerative colitis, studies showed that Stelara was effective in treatment of patients in whom other 
treatments had not worked or could not be used. The side effects were as expected for this medicine. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Stelara? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Stelara have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Stelara are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Stelara are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Stelara 
Stelara received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 January 2009.  
Further information on Stelara can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/stelara.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2020.  
Stelara (ustekinumab)  
EMA/19731/2020  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
