16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/684614/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ustekinumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003085/202012 
Period covered by the PSUR: from 01/01/2020 to 31/12/2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for ustekinumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on opportunistic infections from clinical trials, the literature, spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal relationship and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the 
PRAC Rapporteur concluded that the product information of products containing ustekinumab should be 
amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on bullous pemphigoid from the literature and spontaneous reports including in 
some cases a close temporal relationship, positive de-challenge, and positive re-challenge, the PRAC 
Rapporteur considers a causal relationship between ustekinumab and bullous pemphigoid is at least a 
reasonable possibility. The PRAC Rapporteur concluded that the product information of products containing 
ustekinumab should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data from the literature on excretion of ustekinumab in breastmilk, the PRAC Rapporteur 
concluded that the product information of products containing ustekinumab should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on serious infusion related reactions from spontaneous reports, the PRAC 
Rapporteur concluded that the product information of products containing ustekinumab concentrate for 
solution for infusion should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ustekinumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing ustekinumab is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/684614/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
