EMA/119299/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004780 
Stimufend (pegfilgrastim) 
An overview of Stimufend and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Stimufend and what is it used for? 
Stimufend is a medicine used in patients with cancer to help with neutropenia (low levels of 
neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), which is a common side effect of cancer treatment and can 
leave patients vulnerable to infections. 
It is given specifically to reduce the duration of neutropenia and prevent febrile neutropenia 
(neutropenia accompanied by fever). 
Stimufend is not intended for use in patients with the blood cancer chronic myeloid leukaemia or with 
myelodysplastic syndromes (conditions where large numbers of abnormal blood cells are produced, 
which can develop into leukaemia). 
Stimufend is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Stimufend is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Stimufend is Neulasta. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Stimufend contains the active substance pegfilgrastim. 
How is Stimufend used? 
Stimufend can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by 
a doctor who has experience in the treatment of cancer or blood disorders. 
It is available as a prefilled syringe containing a solution for injection under the skin. Stimufend is 
given as a single dose of 6 mg injected under the skin at least 24 hours after the end of each cycle of 
chemotherapy (treatment with cancer medicines). Patients can inject themselves if they have been 
trained appropriately. 
For more information about using Stimufend, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Stimufend work? 
The active substance in Stimufend, pegfilgrastim, is a form of filgrastim, which is very similar to a 
human protein called granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF). Filgrastim works by encouraging 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the bone marrow to produce more white blood cells, increasing white blood cell counts and so treating 
neutropenia. 
In Stimufend, as in the reference medicine, filgrastim has been ‘pegylated’ (attached to a chemical 
called polyethylene glycol). This slows down the removal of filgrastim from the body, allowing the 
medicine to be given less often. 
What benefits of Stimufend have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Stimufend with Neulasta have shown that the active substance in 
Stimufend is highly similar to that in Neulasta in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. 
Studies have also shown that giving Stimufend produces similar levels of the active substance in the 
body to giving Neulasta. 
Because Stimufend is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of pegfilgrastim 
carried out with Neulasta do not all need to be repeated for Stimufend. 
What are the risks associated with Stimufend? 
The safety of Stimufend has been evaluated and, on the basis of all the studies carried out, the side 
effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Neulasta. 
The most common side effect with Stimufend (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is pain in 
the bones. Pain in muscles is also common. For the full list of side effects and restrictions with 
Stimufend, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Stimufend authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Stimufend has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Neulasta and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Stimufend will behave in the same way as 
Neulasta in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Neulasta, the benefits of Stimufend outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised 
for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Stimufend? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Stimufend have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Stimufend are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Stimufend are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Stimufend 
Stimufend received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 28 March 2022. 
Further information on Stimufend can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/stimufend.  
Stimufend (pegfilgrastim)  
EMA/119299/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 03-2022. 
Stimufend (pegfilgrastim)  
EMA/119299/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
