ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
▼This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick 
identification of new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any 
suspected adverse reactions. See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Stimufend 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim* in 0.6 mL solution for injection. The 
concentration is 10 mg/mL based on protein only**.
* Produced in Escherichia coli cells by recombinant DNA technology followed by conjugation 
with polyethylene glycol (PEG).
** The concentration is 20 mg/mL if the PEG moiety is included.
The potency of this product should not be compared to the potency of another pegylated or non-
pegylated protein of the same therapeutic class. For more information, see section 5.1.
Excipients with known effect
Each pre-filled syringe contains 30 mg sorbitol (E420) (see section 4.4).  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Solution for injection (injection). 
Clear, colourless solution for injection. 
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1
Therapeutic indications
Reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in adult patients 
treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid 
leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Stimufend therapy should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in oncology 
and/or haematology.
Posology
One 6 mg dose (a single pre-filled syringe) of Stimufend is recommended for each chemotherapy 
cycle, given at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Special populations
Patients with renal impairment
No dose change is recommended in patients with renal impairment, including those with end-stage 
2 
renal disease.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim in children has not yet been established. Currently 
available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can 
be made. 
Method of administration
Stimufend is injected subcutaneously. The injections should be given into the thigh, abdomen or 
upper arm. 
For instructions on handling of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Limited clinical data suggest a comparable effect on time to recovery of severe neutropenia for 
pegfilgrastim to filgrastim in patients with de novo acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (see section 
5.1). However, the long-term effects of pegfilgrastim have not been established in AML; 
therefore, it should be used with caution in this patient population.
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) can promote growth of myeloid cells in vitro and 
similar effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim have not been investigated in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndrome, chronic myelogenous leukaemia, and in patients with secondary AML; 
therefore, it should not be used in such patients. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the 
diagnosis of blast transformation of chronic myeloid leukaemia from AML.
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim administration in de novo AML patients aged < 55 years 
with cytogenetics t(15;17) have not been established.
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim have not been investigated in patients receiving high dose 
chemotherapy. This medicinal product should not be used to increase the dose of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy beyond established dosage regimens.
Pulmonary adverse events
Pulmonary adverse reactions, in particular interstitial pneumonia, have been reported after G-CSF 
administration. Patients with a recent history of pulmonary infiltrates or pneumonia may be at 
higher risk (see section 4.8).
The onset of pulmonary signs such as cough, fever, and dyspnoea in association with radiological 
signs of pulmonary infiltrates, and deterioration in pulmonary function along with increased 
neutrophil count may be preliminary signs of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). In 
such circumstances pegfilgrastim should be discontinued at the discretion of the physician and 
the appropriate treatment given (see section 4.8).
3 
Glomerulonephritis
Glomerulonephritis has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim and pegfilgrastim. Generally, 
events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or withdrawal of filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim. Urinalysis monitoring is recommended.
Capillary leak syndrome
Capillary leak syndrome has been reported after G-CSF administration and is characterised by 
hypotension, hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and haemoconcentration. Patients who develop 
symptoms of capillary leak syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard 
symptomatic treatment, which may include a need for intensive care (see section 4.8).
Splenomegaly and splenic rupture
Generally asymptomatic cases of splenomegaly and cases of splenic rupture, including some fatal 
cases, have been reported following administration of pegfilgrastim (see section 4.8). Therefore, 
spleen size should be carefully monitored (e.g. clinical examination, ultrasound). A diagnosis of 
splenic rupture should be considered in patients reporting left upper abdominal pain or shoulder tip 
pain.
Thrombocytopenia and anaemia
Treatment with pegfilgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia because 
full dose myelosuppressive chemotherapy is maintained on the prescribed schedule. Regular 
monitoring of platelet count and haematocrit is recommended. Special care should be taken when 
administering single or combination chemotherapeutic agents which are known to cause severe 
thrombocytopenia. 
Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia in breast and lung cancer patients 
In the post-marketing observational study setting, pegfilgrastim in conjunction with chemotherapy 
and/or radiotherapy has been associated with development of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in breast and lung cancer patients (see section 4.8). Monitor breast 
and lung cancer patients for signs and symptoms of MDS/AML. 
Sickle cell anaemia
Sickle cell crises have been associated with the use of pegfilgrastim in patients with sickle cell trait 
or sickle cell disease (see section 4.8). Therefore, physicians should use caution when prescribing 
pegfilgrastim in patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease, should monitor appropriate 
clinical parameters and laboratory status and be attentive to the possible association of this 
medicinal product with splenic enlargement and vaso-occlusive crisis.
Leukocytosis
White blood cell (WBC) counts of 100 x 109/L or greater have been observed in less than 1% of 
patients receiving pegfilgrastim. No adverse events directly attributable to this degree of 
leukocytosis have been reported. Such elevation in white blood cells is transient, typically seen 24 
to 48 hours after administration and is consistent with the pharmacodynamic effects of this 
medicinal product. Consistent with the clinical effects and the potential for leukocytosis, a WBC 
count should be performed at regular intervals during therapy. If leukocyte counts exceed 50 x 
109/L after the expected nadir, this medicinal product should be discontinued immediately.
Hypersensitivity
Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reactions, occurring on initial or subsequent treatment 
4 
have been reported in patients treated with pegfilgrastim. Permanently discontinue pegfilgrastim in 
patients with clinically significant hypersensitivity. Do not administer pegfilgrastim to patients 
with a history of hypersensitivity to pegfilgrastim or filgrastim. If a serious allergic reaction 
occurs, appropriate therapy should be administered, with close patient follow-up over several 
days.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), which can be life-threatening or fatal, has been reported rarely 
in association with pegfilgrastim treatment. If the patient has developed SJS with the use of 
pegfilgrastim, treatment with pegfilgrastim must not be restarted in this patient at any time. 
Immunogenicity
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Rates of generation of 
antibodies against pegfilgrastim is generally low. Binding antibodies do occur as expected with all 
biologics; however, they have not been associated with neutralising activity at present.
Aortitis
Aortitis has been reported after G-CSF administration in healthy subjects and in cancer patients. 
The symptoms experienced included fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased 
inflammatory markers (e.g. c-reactive protein and white blood cell count). In most cases aortitis 
was diagnosed by CT scan and generally resolved after withdrawal of G-CSF. See also section 
4.8.
Other warnings
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim for the mobilisation of blood progenitor cells in patients or 
healthy donors has not been adequately evaluated.
The needle cap of the pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex), which 
may cause allergic reactions. 
Increased haematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has 
been associated with transient positive bone-imaging findings. This should be considered when 
interpreting bone-imaging results. 
Sorbitol 
The additive effect of concomitantly administered products containing sorbitol (or fructose) and 
dietary intake of sorbitol (or fructose) should be taken into account.
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 6 mg dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Due to the potential sensitivity of rapidly dividing myeloid cells to cytotoxic chemotherapy‚ 
pegfilgrastim should be administered at least 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy. In clinical studies, pegfilgrastim has been safely administered 14 days before 
chemotherapy. Concomitant use of pegfilgrastim with any chemotherapy agent has not been 
evaluated in patients. In animal models concomitant administration of pegfilgrastim and 5-
fluorouracil (5-FU) or other antimetabolites has been shown to potentiate myelosuppression.
5 
Possible interactions with other haematopoietic growth factors and cytokines have not been 
specifically investigated in clinical studies.
The potential for interaction with lithium, which also promotes the release of neutrophils, has not 
been specifically investigated. There is no evidence that such an interaction would be harmful.
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim have not been evaluated in patients receiving chemotherapy 
associated with delayed myelosuppression e.g. nitrosoureas.
Specific interaction or metabolism studies have not been performed, however, clinical studies have 
not indicated an interaction of pegfilgrastim with any other medicinal products.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of pegfilgrastim in pregnant women. Studies 
in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Pegfilgrastim is not recommended 
during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using contraception.
Breast-feeding
There is insufficient information on the excretion of pegfilgrastim/metabolites in human milk, a 
risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue
breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from pegfilgrastim therapy taking into account the benefit 
of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.
Fertility
Pegfilgrastim did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats at 
cumulative weekly doses approximately 6 to 9 times higher than the recommended human dose 
(based on body surface area) (see section 5.3). 
4.7
Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Pegfilgrastim has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were bone pain (very common [≥ 1/10]) and 
musculoskeletal pain (common [≥ 1/100 to < 1/10]). Bone pain was generally of mild to moderate 
severity, transient and could be controlled in most patients with standard analgesics.
Hypersensitivity-type reactions, including skin rash, urticaria, angioedema, dyspnoea, erythaema, 
flushing, and hypotension occurred on initial or subsequent treatment with pegfilgrastim 
(uncommon [≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100]). Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis can occur 
in patients receiving pegfilgrastim (uncommon) (see section 4.4).
Capillary Leak Syndrome, which can be life-threatening if treatment is delayed, has been reported 
as uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100) in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy following 
administration of G-CSFs; see section 4.4 and section “Description of selected adverse reactions” 
below.
Splenomegaly, generally asymptomatic, is uncommon.
6 
Splenic rupture including some fatal cases is uncommonly reported following administration of 
pegfilgrastim (see section 4.4).
Uncommon pulmonary adverse reactions including interstitial pneumonia, pulmonary oedema, 
pulmonary infiltrates and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported. Uncommonly, cases have 
resulted in respiratory failure or ARDS, which may be fatal (see section 4.4).
Isolated cases of sickle cell crises have been reported in patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell 
disease (uncommon in sickle cell patients) (see section 4.4).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The data in the table below describe adverse reactions reported from clinical studies and 
spontaneous reporting. The table is according to the MedDRA system organ classification. 
Frequencies have been evaluated according to the following convention: very common (≥1/10); 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1,000); very rare 
(<1/10 000).Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness.
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Neoplasm benign,
malignant and 
unspecified (incl 
cysts and polyps)
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Nervous system 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Adverse reactions 
Very common (≥ 
1/10) 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Thrombocytopenia
Leukocytosis
1
1
Headache
1
Rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 
to 
< 1/1,000) 
Uncommon (≥ 
1/1,000 to 
< 1/100) 
; 
Myelodysplastic 
syndrome1
Acute myeloid 
leukaemia1
Sickle cell anaemia 
2
with crisis
2
Splenomegaly
; 
2
Splenic rupture
Hypersensitivity 
reactions; 
Anaphylaxis
Elevations in uric 
acid 
Aortitis 
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage
1
2
; 
Capillary leak 
syndrome
Acute Respiratory 
Distress 
Syndrome
Pulmonary adverse 
reactions 
(interstitial 
pneumonia, 
pulmonary oedema, 
pulmonary 
infiltrates and 
pulmonary fibrosis)
Haemoptysis
7 
1
Nausea
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Bone pain 
Musculoskeletal pain 
(myalgia, arthralgia, 
pain in extremity, back 
pain, musculoskeletal 
pain, neck pain) 
Stevens-
Johnson 
syndrome 
Sweet’s syndrome 
(acute febrile 
neutrophilic 
1,2
dermatosis)
Cutaneous 
1,2
vasculitis
Renal and 
urinary disorders
General 
disorders and 
administrative 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Glomerulonephritis
2
1
Injection site pain
Non-cardiac chest pain
Injection site 
reactions
2
Elevations in lactate 
dehydrogenase and 
alkaline 
phosphatase
Transient elevations 
in LFTs for ALT or
1
AST
; 
1
1
2
See section “Description of selected adverse reactions” below. 
This adverse reaction was identified through post-marketing surveillance but not observed in randomised, controlled 
clinical studies in adults. The frequency category was estimated from a statistical calculation based upon 1,576 patients 
receiving pegfilgrastim in nine randomised clinical studies. 
Description of selected adverse reactions
Uncommon cases of Sweet’s syndrome have been reported, although in some cases underlying 
haematological malignancies may play a role.
Uncommon events of cutaneous vasculitis have been reported in patients treated with 
pegfilgrastim. The mechanism of vasculitis in patients receiving pegfilgrastim is unknown.
Injection site reactions, including injection site erythaema (uncommon) as well as injection site 
pain (common) have occurred on initial or subsequent treatment with pegfilgrastim.
Common cases of leukocytosis (white blood count [WBC] > 100 x 109/L) have been reported (see 
section 4.4).
Reversible, mild to moderate elevations in uric acid and alkaline phosphatase, with no associated 
clinical effects, were uncommon; reversible, mild to moderate elevations in lactate 
dehydrogenase, with no associated clinical effects, were uncommon in patients receiving 
pegfilgrastim following cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Nausea and headaches were very commonly observed in patients receiving chemotherapy.
Uncommon elevations in liver function tests (LFTs) for alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or 
aspartate aminotransferase (AST), have been observed in patients after receiving pegfilgrastim 
8 
following cytotoxic chemotherapy. These elevations are transient and return to baseline.
An increased risk of MDS/AML following treatment with pegfilgrastim in conjunction with 
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy has been observed in an epidemiological study in breast and lung 
cancer patients (see section 4.4). 
Common cases of thrombocytopenia have been reported.
Cases of capillary leak syndrome have been reported in the post-marketing setting with G-CSF 
use. These have generally occurred in patients with advanced malignant diseases, sepsis, taking 
multiple chemotherapy medications or undergoing apheresis (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
The experience in children is limited. A higher frequency of serious adverse reactions in younger 
children aged 0-5 years (92%) has been observed compared to older children aged 6-11 and 12-21 
years respectively (80% and 67%) and adults. The most common adverse reaction reported was 
bone pain (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Single doses of 300 mcg/kg have been administered subcutaneously to a limited number of 
healthy volunteers and patients with non-small cell lung cancer without serious adverse reactions. 
The adverse events were similar to those in subjects receiving lower doses of pegfilgrastim.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunostimulants, colony stimulating factors; ATC Code: 
L03AA13 
Stimufend is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a glycoprotein, which regulates the 
production and release of neutrophils from the bone marrow. Pegfilgrastim is a covalent 
conjugate of recombinant human G-CSF (r-metHuG-CSF) with a single 20 kd polyethylene glycol 
(PEG) molecule.
Pegfilgrastim is a sustained duration form of filgrastim due to decreased renal clearance. 
Pegfilgrastim and filgrastim have been shown to have identical modes of action, causing a 
marked increase in peripheral blood neutrophil counts within 24 hours, with minor increases in 
monocytes and/or lymphocytes. Similarly to filgrastim, neutrophils produced in response to 
pegfilgrastim show normal or enhanced function as demonstrated by tests of chemotactic and 
phagocytic function. As with other haematopoietic growth factors, G-CSF has shown in vitro 
stimulating properties on human endothelial cells. G-CSF can promote growth of myeloid cells, 
including malignant cells, in vitro and similar effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in 
vitro.
9 
In two randomised, double-blind, pivotal studies in patients with high-risk stage II-IV breast 
cancer undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin and docetaxel, use 
of pegfilgrastim, as a single once per cycle dose, reduced the duration of neutropenia and the 
incidence of febrile neutropenia similarly to that observed with daily administrations of filgrastim 
(a median of 11 daily administrations). In the absence of growth factor support, this regimen has 
been reported to result in a mean duration of grade 4 neutropenia of 5 to 7 days, and a 30-40% 
incidence of febrile neutropenia. In one study (n = 157), which used a 6 mg fixed dose of 
pegfilgrastim the mean duration of grade 4 neutropenia for the pegfilgrastim group was 1.8 days 
compared with 1.6 days in the filgrastim group (difference 0.23 days, 95% CI -0.15, 0.63). Over 
the entire study, the rate of febrile neutropenia was 13% of pegfilgrastim-treated patients 
compared with 20% of filgrastim-treated patients (difference 7%, 95% CI of -19%, 5%). In a 
second study (n = 310), which used a weight- adjusted dose (100 mcg/kg), the mean duration of 
grade 4 neutropenia for the pegfilgrastim group was 1.7 days, compared with 1.8 days in the 
filgrastim group (difference 0.03 days, 95% CI -0.36, 0.30). The overall rate of febrile neutropenia 
was 9% of patients treated with pegfilgrastim and 18% of patients treated with filgrastim 
(difference 9%, 95% CI of -16.8%, -1.1%).
In a placebo-controlled, double-blind study in patients with breast cancer the effect of 
pegfilgrastim on the incidence of febrile neutropenia was evaluated following administration of a 
chemotherapy regimen associated with a febrile neutropenia rate of 10-20% (docetaxel 100 mg/m2
every 3 weeks for 4 cycles). Nine hundred and twenty-eight patients were randomised to receive 
either a single dose of pegfilgrastim or placebo approximately 24 hours (day 2) after 
chemotherapy in each cycle. The incidence of febrile neutropenia was lower for patients 
randomised to receive pegfilgrastim compared with placebo (1% versus 17%, p < 0.001). The 
incidence of hospitalisations and IV anti-infective use associated with a clinical diagnosis of 
febrile neutropenia was lower in the pegfilgrastim group compared with placebo (1% versus 14%, 
p < 0.001; and 2% versus 10%, p < 0.001).
A small (n = 83), phase II, randomised, double-blind study in patients receiving chemotherapy for 
de novo acute myeloid leukaemia compared pegfilgrastim (single dose of 6 mg) with filgrastim, 
administered during induction chemotherapy. Median time to recovery from severe neutropenia 
was estimated as 22 days in both treatment groups. Long term outcome was not studied (see 
section 4.4).
In a phase II (n = 37) multicentre, randomised, open-label study of paediatric sarcoma patients 
receiving 100 mcg/kg pegfilgrastim following cycle 1 of vincristine, doxorubicin and 
cyclophosphamide (VAdriaC/IE) chemotherapy, a longer duration of severe neutropenia 
(neutrophils < 0.5 x 109/L) was observed in younger children aged 0-5 years (8.9 days) compared 
to older children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (6 days and 3.7 days, respectively) and adults. 
Additionally a higher incidence of febrile neutropenia was observed in younger children aged 0-5 
years (75%) compared to older children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (70% and 33%, 
respectively) and adults (see sections 4.8 and 5.2).
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
After a single subcutaneous dose of pegfilgrastim, the peak serum concentration of pegfilgrastim 
occurs at 16 to 120 hours after dosing and serum concentrations of pegfilgrastim are maintained 
during the period of neutropenia after myelosuppressive chemotherapy. The elimination of 
pegfilgrastim is non-linear with respect to dose; serum clearance of pegfilgrastim decreases with 
increasing dose. Pegfilgrastim appears to be mainly eliminated by neutrophil-mediated clearance, 
which becomes saturated at higher doses. Consistent with a self-regulating clearance mechanism, 
the serum concentration of pegfilgrastim declines rapidly at the onset of neutrophil recovery (see 
figure 1). 
10 
Figure 1. Profile of median pegfilgrastim serum concentration and absolute neutrophil 
count (ANC) in chemotherapy treated patients after a single 6 mg injection
Due to the neutrophil-mediated clearance mechanism, the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim is not 
expected to be affected by renal or hepatic impairment. In an open-label, single dose study (n = 31) 
various stages of renal impairment, including end-stage renal disease, had no impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim.
Elderly
Limited data indicate that the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim in elderly subjects (> 65 years) is 
similar to that in adults.
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim were studied in 37 paediatric patients with sarcoma, who 
received 100 mcg/kg pegfilgrastim after the completion of VAdriaC/IE chemotherapy. The 
youngest age group (0-5 years) had a higher mean exposure to pegfilgrastim (AUC) (± Standard 
Deviation) (47.9 ± 22.5 mcg∙hr/mL) than older children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (22.0 ± 
13.1 mcg∙hr/mL and 29.3 ± 23.2 mcg∙hr/mL, respectively) (see section 5.1). With the exception 
of the youngest age group (0-5 years), the mean AUC in paediatric subjects appeared similar to 
that for adult patients with high-risk stage II-IV breast cancer and receiving 100 mcg/kg 
pegfilgrastim after the completion of doxorubicin/docetaxel (see sections 4.8 and 5.1).
5.3  Preclinical safety data
Preclinical data from conventional studies of repeated dose toxicity revealed the expected 
pharmacological effects including increases in leukocyte count, myeloid hyperplasia in bone 
marrow, extramedullary haematopoiesis and splenic enlargement.
There were no adverse effects observed in offspring from pregnant rats given pegfilgrastim 
subcutaneously, but in rabbits pegfilgrastim has been shown to cause embryo/foetal toxicity 
(embryo loss) at cumulative doses approximately 4 times the recommended human dose, which 
were not seen when pregnant rabbits were exposed to the recommended human dose. In rat studies, 
it was shown that pegfilgrastim may cross the placenta. Studies in rats indicated that reproductive 
performance, fertility, oestrous cycling, days between pairing and coitus, and intrauterine survival 
were unaffected by pegfilgrastim given subcutaneously. The relevance of these findings for 
11 
humans is not known.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1
List of excipients
Sodium acetate  
Sorbitol (E420)  
Polysorbate 20 
Glacial acetic acid  
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products, particularly with sodium 
chloride solutions.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C).
Stimufend may be exposed to room temperature (not above 30°C) for a maximum single period of 
up to 72 hours. Stimufend left at room temperature for more than 72 hours should be discarded. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Pre-filled syringe (Type I glass), with a bromobutyl fluorotec stopper, stainless steel needle, needle 
cap and an automatic needle guard.
The needle cap of the pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex) (see 
section 4.4).
Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.6 mL of solution for injection.
Pack size of one pre-filled syringe, in a blistered packaging. 
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Before use, Stimufend solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter. Only a solution 
that is clear and colourless should be injected.
Excessive shaking may aggregate pegfilgrastim, rendering it biologically inactive.
Allow the pre-filled syringe to come to room temperature for 30 minutes before using the syringe.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
12 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/22/1632/001 
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu
13 
ANNEX II
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
14 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies UK Ltd  
Belasis Avenue 
Billingham TS23 1LH 
United Kingdom 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Fresenius Kabi Austria GmbH 
Hafnerstrasse 36 
8055 Graz 
Austria 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   

Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
15 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
A. LABELLING 
17 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Stimufend 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
pegfilgrastim 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 0.6 mL solution for injection.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: sodium acetate, sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 20, glacial acetic acid, water for injections. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Avoid vigorous shaking. 
Do not use if seal is broken or missing. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
18 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener-Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1632/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER<, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES>
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Stimufend 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC  
SN  
NN  
19 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER PACK FOR SYRINGE WITH AUTOMATIC NEEDLE GUARD  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Stimufend 6 mg injection  
pegfilgrastim 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Subcutaneous use  
0.6 mL 
1 single-dose pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/22/1632/001 
20 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Stimufend 6 mg injection  
pegfilgrastim 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER< 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.6 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
21 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Stimufend 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
pegfilgrastim 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
-
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Stimufend is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Stimufend  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Stimufend  
Possible side effects  
How to store Stimufend 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Stimufend is and what it is used for 
Stimufend contains the active substance pegfilgrastim. Pegfilgrastim is a protein produced by 
biotechnology in bacteria called E. coli. It belongs to a group of proteins called cytokines, and is very 
similar to a natural protein (granulocyte-colony stimulating factor) produced by your own body.  
Stimufend is used to reduce the duration of neutropenia (low white blood cell count) and the 
occurrence of febrile neutropenia (low white blood cell count with a fever) which can be caused by the 
use of cytotoxic chemotherapy (medicines that destroy rapidly growing cells). White blood cells are 
important as they help your body fight infection. These cells are very sensitive to the effects of 
chemotherapy which can cause the number of these cells in your body to decrease. If white blood cells 
fall to a low level there may not be enough left in the body to fight bacteria and you may have an 
increased risk of infection. 
Your doctor has given you Stimufend to encourage your bone marrow (part of the bone which makes 
blood cells) to produce more white blood cells that help your body fight infection. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Stimufend
Do not use Stimufend 

if you are allergic to pegfilgrastim, filgrastim or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6).  
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Stimufend: 

if you experience an allergic reaction including weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty  
23 










breathing, swelling of the face (anaphylaxis), redness and flushing, skin rash and areas of the 
skin that itch. 
if you have an allergy to latex. The needle cap on the pre-filled syringe contains a derivative of  
latex and may cause severe allergic reactions. 
if you experience a cough, fever and difficulty breathing. This can be a sign of Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). 
if you have any of the following or combination of the following side effects: 
-
swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, 
difficulty breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of 
tiredness. 
These could be symptoms of a condition called “Capillary Leak Syndrome” which causes blood 
to leak from the small blood vessels into your body. See section 4. 
if you get left upper abdominal pain or pain at the tip of your shoulder. This may be a sign of a 
problem with your spleen (splenomegaly). 
if you have recently had a serious lung infection (pneumonia), fluid in the lungs (pulmonary 
oedema), inflammation of the lungs (interstitial lung disease) or an abnormal chest x-ray (lung 
infiltration). 
if you are aware of any altered blood cell counts (e.g. increase in white blood cells or anaemia) 
or decreased blood platelet counts, which reduces the ability of your blood to clot 
(thrombocytopenia). Your doctor may want to monitor you more closely. 
if you have sickle cell anaemia. Your doctor may monitor your condition more closely. 
if you are a patient with breast cancer or lung cancer, Stimufend in combination with 
chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy may increase your risk of a precancerous blood 
condition called myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or a blood cancer called acute myeloid 
leukaemia (AML). Symptoms may include tiredness, fever, and easy bruising or bleeding. 
if you have sudden signs of allergy such as rash, itching or hives on the skin, swelling of the 
face, lips, tongue or other parts of the body, shortness of breath, wheezing or trouble breathing 
these could be signs of a severe allergic reaction. 
if you have symptoms of inflammation of aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood 
from the heart to the body), this has been reported rarely in cancer patients and healthy donors. 
The symptoms can include fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased 
inflammatory markers. Tell your doctor if you experience those symptoms. 
Your doctor will check your blood and urine regularly as Stimufend can harm the tiny filters inside 
your kidneys (glomerulonephritis). 
Severe skin reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) have been reported with the use of pegfilgrastim. 
Stop using pegfilgrastim and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the symptoms 
described in section 4. 
You should talk to your doctor about your risks of developing cancers of the blood. If you develop or 
are likely to develop cancers of the blood, you should not use Stimufend, unless instructed by your 
doctor. 
Loss of response to pegfilgrastim 
If you experience a loss of response or failure to maintain a response with pegfilgrastim treatment, 
your doctor will investigate the reasons why including whether you have developed antibodies which 
neutralise pegfilgrastim’s activity. 
Other medicines and Stimufend
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. Stimufend has not been tested in 
pregnant women. It is important to tell your doctor if you: 
24 



are pregnant; 
think you may be pregnant; or 
are planning to have a baby. 
If you become pregnant during Stimufend treatment, please inform your doctor. 
Unless your doctor directs you otherwise, you must stop breast-feeding if you use Stimufend. 
Driving and using machines 
Stimufend has no or negligible effect on the ability to drive or use machines. 
Stimufend contains sorbitol (E420) and sodium acetate 
This medicine contains 30 mg sorbitol in each 6 mg dose, which is equivalent to 50 mg/ml.  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 6 mg dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Stimufend 
Stimufend is for use in adults aged 18 and over. 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is one 6 mg subcutaneous injection (injection under your skin) using a pre-
filled syringe and it should be given at least 24 hours after your last dose of chemotherapy at the end 
of each chemotherapy cycle.  
Injecting Stimufend yourself 
Your doctor may decide that it would be more convenient for you to inject Stimufend yourself. Your 
doctor or nurse will show you how to inject yourself. Do not try to inject yourself if you have not been 
trained. 
For further instructions on how to inject yourself with Stimufend, please read the section at the end of 
this leaflet. 
Do not shake Stimufend vigorously as this may affect its activity. 
If you use more Stimufend than you should 
If you use more Stimufend than you should contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you forget to inject Stimufend
If you are injecting yourself and have forgotten your dose of Stimufend, you should contact your 
doctor to discuss when you should inject the next dose.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Please tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following or combination of the following 
side effects: 

swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, difficulty 
breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of tiredness. These 
symptoms generally develop in a rapid fashion. 
25 
These could be symptoms of an uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) condition called 
“Capillary Leak Syndrome” which causes blood to leak from the small blood vessels into your body 
and needs urgent medical attention. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 


bone pain. Your doctor will tell you what you can take to ease the bone pain. 
nausea and headaches. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):  



pain at the site of injection.  
general aches and pains in the joints and muscles.  
some changes may occur in your blood, but these will be detected by routine blood tests. Your 
white blood cell count may become high for a short period of time. Your platelet count may 
become low which might result in bruising. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):  

allergic-type reactions, including redness and flushing, skin rash, and raised areas of the skin 
that itch.  
serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis (weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty 
breathing, swelling of the face).  
increased spleen size.  
spleen rupture. Some cases of splenic rupture were fatal. It is important that you contact your 
doctor immediately if you experience pain in the upper left side of the abdomen or left shoulder 
pain since this may relate to a problem with your spleen.  
breathing problems. If you have a cough, fever and difficulty breathing please tell your doctor.  
Sweet’s syndrome (plum-coloured, raised, painful lesions on the limbs and sometimes the face 
and neck with fever) has occurred but other factors may play a role.  
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin).  
damage to the tiny filters inside your kidneys (glomerulonephritis).  
redness at the site of injection.  
coughing up blood (haemoptysis) 
blood disorders (myelodysplastic syndrome [MDS] or acute myeloid leukaemia [AML]).  
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 

inflammation of aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the 
body), see section 2. 
bleeding from the lung (pulmonary haemorrhage). 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, which can appear as reddish target-like or circular patches often 
with central blisters on the trunk, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes 
and can be preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms. Stop using Stimufend if you develop these 
symptoms and contact your doctor or seek medical attention immediately. See also section 2. 












Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Stimufend 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
26 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the syringe label 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Stimufend may be exposed to room temperature (not above 30°C) for a maximum single period of up 
to 72 hours. Stimufend left at room temperature for more than 72 hours should be discarded. For all 
questions about storage, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice it is cloudy or there are particles in it. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Stimufend contains  
-
The active substance is pegfilgrastim. Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 
0.6 mL of solution.
The other ingredients are sodium acetate, sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 20, glacial acetic acid and 
water for injections. See section 2 ‘Stimufend contains sorbitol (E420) and sodium acetate’.  
-
What Stimufend looks like and contents of the pack 
Stimufend is a clear, colourless solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe (6 mg/0.6 mL). Each pack 
contains 1 glass pre-filled syringe with an attached stainless steel needle and needle cap. 
The pre-filled syringe is provided with an automatic needle guard. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder   
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroener Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hoehe 
Germany 
Manufacturer
Fresenius Kabi Austria GmbH 
Hafnerstrasse 36 
8055 Graz 
Austria 
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
27 
Instructions for use Stimufend (pegfilgrastim) 
Single-dose pre-filled syringe for subcutaneous injection 
Important:  
Read the package leaflet for important information you need to know about Stimufend before using 
this instructions for use Stimufend.  
Before you use a Stimufend pre-filled syringe, read this important information. 
Storing Stimufend pre-filled syringes:  
 Store Stimufend in the refrigerator between 2°C to 8°C. 
 Do not freeze.  
 Keep the pre-filled syringe in the original carton to protect from light.  
 Throw away (dispose of) any Stimufend that has been left at room temperature, not above 30°C, 
for more than 72 hours.  
 Keep the Stimufend pre-filled syringe out of the reach of children. 
Using the pre-filled syringe: 
 It is important that you do not try to inject Stimufend unless you or your caregiver has received 
training from your healthcare professional.  
 You should not inject Stimufend to children.  
 A dose less than 6 mg/0.6 mL cannot be accurately measured using the Stimufend pre-filled 
syringe.  
 Do not use a pre-filled syringe after the expiry date on the label because it could lead to illness.  
 Do not shake the pre-filled syringe.  
 Do not remove the needle cap from the pre-filled syringe until you are ready to inject.  
 Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the carton is open or damaged.  
 Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface. The pre-filled syringe 
may be broken even if you cannot see the break. Use a new pre-filled syringe.  
 Do not use Stimufend that has been frozen or left in direct sunlight. 
 The needle cover on the pre-filled syringe contains dry natural rubber (latex). Tell your healthcare 
professional if you are allergic to latex. You should not give Stimufend using the pre-filled syringe 
if you have latex allergies. 
 Stimufend pre-filled syringe has clear needle guard that covers the needle after the injection is 
complete.  
 Do not try to activate the clear needle guard before injecting.  
 Do not insert your fingers into the opening of the clear needle guard because the needle could 
injure you.  
 Do not try to reuse the Stimufend pre-filled syringe because it could lead to an infection. 
Call your healthcare professional if you have any questions. 
28 
Step 1: Get ready for your injection 
1.1 Prepare your materials 
 Prepare a clean flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area.  
 You will also need (not included) (Figure C): 
- 1 alcohol pad 
- 1 cotton ball or gauze, and 
- a sharps disposal container. 
 Remove the carton from the refrigerator. 
 Take out the sealed plastic tray from the carton. 
 Put the syringe in its sealed plastic tray on a clean flat surface. 
Figure C 
29 
 Leave the syringe in its sealed plastic tray and let it 
come to room temperature for 30 minutes before 
the injection (Figure D). Injecting cold medicine 
can be painful. 
 Do not warm the syringe any other way, such as in a microwave, hot water, or direct sunlight. 
 Do not remove the needle cap while allowing the syringe to reach room temperature. 
Figure D 
Step 2: Wash your hands
2.1 Wash your hands 
 Wash your hands well with soap and water and dry 
them with a clean towel (Figure E). 
 Wearing gloves does not replace the need to wash 
your hands.  
Step 3: Check your syringe
Figure E 
3.1 Remove pre-filled syringe from the sealed plastic tray 
 Peel off the seal from the sealed plastic tray.
 Place two fingers on either side, in the middle of the 
clear needle guard. Pull the pre-filled syringe 
straight up and out of the tray (Figure F).
Do not pick up the pre-filled syringe by plunger, or 
needle cap. Doing so could damage the syringe or 
activate clear needle guard.
3.2 Check your syringe
 Check that the pre-filled syringe, the clear needle 
guard and the needle cap are not cracked or 
damaged (Figure G). 
30 
Figure F
Figure G 
 Check that the needle cap is securely attached 
(Figure H). 
 Check that the needle guard spring is not extended 
(Figure I). 
Figure H 
Figure I 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it shows any sign of damage. If so, throw away the syringe in 
your sharps disposal container (see Step 6) and contact your healthcare professional or pharmacist 
right away.
3.3 Check liquid
 Check the liquid through the clear window of the 
label to make sure that the medicine is clear, 
colourless, and free of particles and flakes (Figure 
J). 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the medicine is cloudy or coloured or if it has particles or flakes 
in it. If so, throw away the syringe in your sharps disposal container (see Step 6) and call your 
healthcare professional or pharmacist right away.
3.4 Check label
Figure J 
 Check the label on the syringe to make sure that:
- The name on the label says Stimufend (Figure K).  
- The expiry date has not passed (Figure L).  
- The dose strength is 6 mg/0.6 mL 
Figure K 
31 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if:  
 The name on the label is not Stimufend.  
 The expiry date on the label has passed.  
 The dose strength is not 6 mg/0.6 mL.
If so, throw away the syringe in your sharps disposal container (see Step 6) and call your healthcare 
professional or pharmacist right away.
Step 4: Prepare to inject
Figure L 
4.1 Choose an injection site (Figure M ) 
You can use: 
 Top of the thighs, or  
 Stomach area (lower abdomen) except for a 5 
centimetres away from the navel (belly button).  
 If you are injecting into someone else, you may use 
the back of the arm or the upper outer areas of the 
buttocks (Figure N).  
 Only inject into the sites shown. 
Figure M 
Figure N 
Do not inject into an area that is sore (tender), bruised, red, hard, scarred or where you have stretch 
marks or tattoos.
Do not inject through your clothes.
4.2 Clean the injection site 
 Wipe the skin of your injection site with an 
alcohol pad to clean it (Figure O). Let the skin 
dry. 
Do not touch the injection site again before injecting. 
Step 5: Inject medicine
Figure O 
5.1 Remove the needle cap 
32 
 Hold the syringe by the clear needle guard.  
 Use your other hand to remove the needle cap by 
pulling the cap straight off (Figure P).  
 Throw away the needle cap in your sharps 
disposal container. 
Do not touch the needle or let it touch any surface after removal of the needle cap. 
Figure P 
5.2 Pinch the skin 
 Gently pinch skin around the area where you plan 
to inject (without squeezing or touching the 
cleaned area) to avoid injecting into muscle 
(Figure Q). 
5.3 Insert the needle 
 Hold the syringe in the other hand like a pencil. 
 Quickly insert the needle straight into the skin at a 
45 to 90-degree-angle (Figure R). 
5.4 Inject 
 Use your thumb to gently push the plunger all the 
way down to inject the full dose (Figure S). 
 The plunger must be pushed down fully to ensure 
the full dose has been injected (Figure T).  
 Hold the syringe firmly without moving it. 
Figure Q 
Figure R 
Figure S 
Figure T 
Do not remove the needle from the skin when the plunger reaches the end.
5.5 Finish injection 
33 
 Slowly release your thumb upward. This will 
allow the needle to move up into the clear needle 
guard and cover the entire needle (Figure U). 
Figure U 
Important: Call your healthcare professional or pharmacist right away if: 
 you did not inject the full dose or 
 the clear needle guard does not activate after a full injection.
Injecting an incorrect amount of medicine could affect or delay your treatment.
Do not reuse a syringe in case of partial injection.
Do not try to recap the needle as it could lead to needle stick injury.
 If there is blood or liquid on the injection site, 
gently press a cotton ball or gauze on the skin 
(Figure V). You may use an adhesive bandage if 
needed. 
Do not rub the injection site.
Step 6: Throw away your pre-filled syringe
Figure V 
6.1 Put your used pre-filled syringes in a sharps 
disposal container right away after use (Figure W). 
Do not throw away (dispose of) pre-filled syringes in 
your household trash. 
Figure W 
 If you do not have a sharps disposal container, you may use a household container that is: 
- made of a heavy-duty plastic; 
- can be closed with a tight-fitting, puncture-resistant lid; without sharps being able to come out, 
- upright and stable during use, 
- leak-resistant and 
- properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container.
 When your sharps disposal container is almost full, you will need to follow your community 
guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container. There may be local laws 
about how you should throw away used needles and syringes.
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your 
community guidelines permit this.
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container. 
34 
