EMA/451550/2017  
EMEA/H/C/002573 
EPAR summary for the public 
Stivarga 
regorafenib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Stivarga. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Stivarga. 
For practical information about using Stivarga, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Stivarga and what is it used for? 
Stivarga is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance regorafenib. It is used on its own to 
treat the following cancers: 
• 
• 
colorectal cancer (cancer of the bowel and rectum) that has spread to other parts of the body; 
gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST, a cancer of the stomach and bowel) that has spread or 
cannot be surgically removed; 
•  hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC, a cancer of the liver). 
Stivarga is used in patients who have already been treated with, or who cannot be given, other 
available treatments. For colorectal cancer, these include chemotherapy based on medicines called 
fluoropyrimidines and treatment with other cancer medicines known as anti-VEGF and anti-EGFR 
therapies. Patients with GIST should have tried treatment with imatinib and sunitinib and patients with 
HCC should have tried sorafenib before starting treatment with Stivarga. 
How is Stivarga used? 
Treatment with Stivarga must be prescribed by a doctor who is experienced in treating cancer. The 
medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Stivarga is available as tablets (40 mg). It is taken in 4-week treatment cycles at a recommended 
starting dose of 160 mg (4 tablets) once every day for three weeks, followed by a week without taking 
the medicine. Doses should be taken at the same time each day with a light meal. Treatment should 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
continue for as long as the patient benefits from treatment or until the side effects become too severe. 
Treatment may need to be interrupted or stopped, or the dose reduced, if the patient experiences 
certain side effects. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Stivarga work? 
The active substance in Stivarga, regorafenib, is a ‘protein kinase inhibitor’. This means that it blocks 
several enzymes that are important for the development of a blood supply to tumours and the growth 
and development of cancer cells. By blocking the action of these enzymes, Stivarga helps to stop the 
growth and spread of the cancer. 
What benefits of Stivarga have been shown in studies? 
Colorectal cancer  
In a main study involving 760 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer which had progressed after 
standard therapy, Stivarga was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) and the main measure of 
effectiveness was overall survival (the length of time that patients lived). All patients also received 
supportive care, including pain medicines and treatment for infections. The study showed that Stivarga 
improved survival, with treated patients living for 6.4 months on average, compared with 5 months for 
those given placebo.  
GIST 
In another main study, Stivarga was compared with placebo in 199 patients with GIST that had spread 
or was inoperable and who were also given best supportive care. Supportive care included treatments 
like pain relief, antibiotics, and blood transfusions that help the patient but without treating the cancer. 
The study showed that Stivarga with supportive care was effective at prolonging the length of time 
patients lived without their disease getting worse. Patients treated with Stivarga lived on average for 
4.8 months without their disease getting worse compared with 0.9 months for patients taking placebo 
and supportive care.  
HCC 
In a main study involving 573 patients with HCC that had worsened after treatment with sorafenib, 
Stivarga was compared with placebo and the main measure of effectiveness was overall survival. All 
patients also received supportive care. The study showed that Stivarga increased the length of time 
that patients lived overall, with patients treated with Stivarga living for 10.6 months on average, 
compared with 7.8 months for those given placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Stivarga? 
The most common side effects with Stivarga (which may affect more than 3 in 10 people) are pain, 
weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite and eating less, hand-foot syndrome (rash and numbness 
affecting the palms and soles), diarrhoea, infection and hypertension (high blood pressure). The most 
serious side effects are severe liver injury, bleeding, gastrointestinal perforation (development of a 
hole in the wall of the gut) and infection.  
For the full list of all restrictions and side effects with Stivarga, see the package leaflet. 
Stivarga  
EMA/451550/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why is Stivarga approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Stivarga’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The Committee noted that in colorectal cancer the 
benefits in terms of extending patient survival were modest, but considered that they outweighed the 
risks in patients for whom there are no other remaining treatment options. However, given the side 
effects, the CHMP considered it important to find ways to identify any subgroups of patients who are 
more likely to respond to Stivarga. 
With regard to GIST and HCC, the Committee noted that the outlook is poor for patients whose disease 
gets worse despite previous treatment. Stivarga had been shown to delay the worsening of the disease 
in these patients. For patients with HCC, this led to an improvement in the length of time patients 
lived. The side effects of Stivarga are manageable.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Stivarga? 
The company that markets Stivarga will carry out studies to look for ways of identifying patients who 
are more likely to respond to treatment. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Stivarga have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Stivarga 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Stivarga on 26 August 2013.  
The full EPAR for Stivarga can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Stivarga, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017. 
Stivarga  
EMA/451550/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
