26 June 2014 
EMA/CHMP/348464/2014 Corr1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report 
Stivarga 
Procedure no. EMEA/H/C/002573/II/0001 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): Bayer Pharma AG 
Note  
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
1 Information on Paediatric requirements was corrected 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Table of contents  
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 8 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 19 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 39 
2.6. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 52 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 59 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 60 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 2/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADR 
ALP 
AST 
AUC 
BCRP 
BMI 
BSC 
CBR 
CR 
CSR 
DCR 
DILI 
DOR 
ECOG PS 
EMA 
FAS 
FDA 
GGT 
GIST  
HCC 
HCT 
HFSR 
HRQoL 
KM 
INR 
IPE 
ITT 
IVRS 
LLN 
MA 
MedDRA 
MLG 
MPP+ 
MTD 
NCI-CTCAE 
NOAEL 
NYHA 
OCT 
ORR 
OS 
PBMQ 
PD 
PFS 
P-gp 
PND 
PR 
PRO 
PT 
PTT 
RCC 
RECIST 
RPSFT 
RR 
SAF 
SD 
SOC 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Alkaline phosphatease 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
Area under the plasma concentration vs time curve 
Breast Cancer Resistance Protein 
Body Mass Index 
Best Supportive Care 
Clinical Benefit Rate 
Complete Response 
Clinical Study Report 
Disease Control Rate 
Drug-induced Liver Injury 
Duration of response 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status 
European Medicines Agency 
Full Analysis Set 
Food and Drug Administration 
Gammaglutamyl transferase 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumour 
Hepatocellular carcinoma 
Hematocrit 
Hand-Foot Skin Reaction 
Health-Related Quality of Life 
Kaplan-Meier 
International Normalised Ratio   
Iteractive Parameter Estimation 
Intention To Treat 
Interactive Voice Response System 
Lower limit of normal 
Marketing Authorisation 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
MedDRA Labeling Grouping 
Methylphenylpyridinium+ 
Maximum Tolerated Dose 
National Cancer Institute- Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
No Observed Adverse Effect Level 
New York Heart Association 
Organic cation transporter 
Overall Response Rate 
Overall Survival 
Product-Specific Bayer MedDRA Query 
Progressive Disease 
Progression Free Survival 
P-glycoprotein 
Post natal day 
Partial Response 
Patient Reported Outcomes 
Preferred Term 
Partial prothrombin time 
Renal Cell Cancer 
Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumor 
Rank Preserving Structural Failure Time 
Response Rate 
Safety Analysis Set 
Stable Disease 
System Organ Class 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 3/62 
 
 
 
 
 
SMQ 
T3 
T4 
TEAE 
TSH 
TKI 
TTP  
ULN 
VEGFR 
Standardised MedDRA Queries 
Triiodothyronine 
Thyroxin 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event 
Thyroid stimulating hormone, thyrotropin 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitor 
Time To Progression 
Upper limit of normal 
Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 4/62 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 variation of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Bayer Pharma AG 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 4 September 2013 an application for a variation 
including an extension of indication. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
name: 
Stivarga 
REGORAFENIB 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.1.6 a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
The MAH applied for an extension of the indication to include treatment of patients with 
gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) who have been previously treated with 2 tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors. Consequently, the MAH proposed the update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC. 
The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated accordingly. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0258/2012 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). At the time of submission of 
the application, the PIP P/0258/2012 was not yet completed as some measures were deferred.  
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
CW/1/2011 on the granting of a class waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 5/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant’s request for consideration 
Additional data protection/marketing exclusivity 
The applicant requested consideration of its application in accordance with Article 14(11) of Regulation 
(EC) 726/2004 - one year of market protection for a new indication. 
 Scientific advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 22 October 2010. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur:  
Pieter de Graeff      
           Co-Rapporteur: Daniela Melchiorri 
The EMA Product Team Leader: Kyriaki Tzogani  
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
4 September 2013 
20 September 2013 
Rapporteur’s assessment report circulated on: 
14 November 2013 
Co-Rapporteur’s assessment report circulated on: 
12 November 2013 
PRAC Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
18 November 2013 
PRAC Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated on: 
29 November 2013 
PRAC advice on: 
5 December 2013 
Request for supplementary information and extension of timetable 
adopted by the CHMP on: 
19 December 2013 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
21 March 2014 
PRAC Rapporteur’s assessment report circulated on: 
17 April 2014 
Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
18 April 2014 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC : 
8 May 2014 
2nd Request for supplementary information and extension of 
timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses to 2nd RSI submitted to the CHMP on: 
22 May 2014 
28 May 2014 
PRAC Rapporteur’s assessment report circulated on: 
2 June 2014 
Joint Rapporteur’s assessment report on the MAH’s responses 
circulated on: 
5 June 2014 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC : 
12 June 2014 
CHMP Opinion: 
26 June 2014 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 6/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP AR on the request for one-year marketing protection 
adopted on: 
26 June 2014 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Gastrointestinal  stromal  tumours  (GIST)  refers  to  a  group  of  mesenchymal  tumour  of  neurogenic  or 
myogenic differentiation which lacked the immunohistochemical features of Schwann cells and did not 
have  the  ultrastructural  characteristics  of  smooth  muscle  cells  (Mazur  MT,  1983).  Gastrointestinal 
stromal  tumours  (GISTs)  represent  the  most  common  sarcomas  arising  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract, 
with a worldwide incidence reaching 10 cases per million people annually (Joensuu H, 2006). 
Approximately  90%  of  GISTs  express  CD117,  the  antigen  based  on  the  KIT  receptor  tyrosine  kinase 
(RTK)  and  that  belongs  to  type  III  RTK  subfamily,  comprising,  among  the  members,  platelet-derived 
growth  factor  receptors  α  and  β  (PDGFRα  and  PDGFRβ).  Mutations  of  KIT  and  PDGFRa  genes  in 
different  exons  are  of  clinical  importance  as  they  lead  to  a  different  response  to  standard  tyrosine 
kinase inhibitor therapy (Heinrich et al., 2003; 2008; Debiec-Rychter et al., 2006; Van Glabbeke et al., 
2007). 
The most frequent symptoms of GIST at presentation are haemorrhage followed by abdominal pain 
and/or discomfort. Aggressive GISTs metastasize to the liver and other locations in the abdomen, and 
only rarely to the lymph nodes. Small GISTs are often detected during surgery for other conditions. 
Most GIST presents in the stomach (50–70%) or the small intestine (20–30%). 
Surgery represents still the cornerstone of GIST treatment whenever resection is possible. Complete 
removal of a primary tumour is potentially curative, especially when the tumour is small and the risk 
classification is low. In patients with metastatic and /or unresectable GIST, molecular targeted therapy 
has been the focus of the therapeutic approach over the past decade. Attempts to treat GIST with 
systemic chemotherapy have been unsuccessful with responses typically less than 10% and associated 
with significant toxicities. 
Imatinib mesylate, an inhibitor of KIT, PDGFR, ABL kinase, and the chimeric BCRABL, was granted a 
marketing authorisation for treatment of adult patients with Kit (CD 117) positive unresectable and/or 
metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). The effectiveness of imatinib was based on 
objective response rates in GIST. 
Sunitinib has been approved for the treatment of unresectable and/or metastatic malignant 
gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) after failure of imatinib mesylate treatment due to resistance or 
intolerance on the basis of increased time to progression (TTP) and overall survival (OS) compared to 
placebo. 
Regorafenib is an oral inhibitor acting on kinases involved in tumour angiogenesis (VEGFR1, -2, -3, 
TIE2), oncogenesis (KIT, RET, RAF-1, BRAF, BRAFV600E), and the tumour microenvironment (PDGFR, 
FGFR).  
The  MAH  applied  for  the  indication:  ‘‘Stivarga  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
gastrointestinal  stromal  tumours  (GIST)  who  have  been  previously  treated  with  2  tyrosine  kinase 
inhibitors’’. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 7/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  finally  applied  indication  was:  ‘‘Stivarga  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) who progressed on or are intolerant 
to prior treatment with imatinib and sunitinib’’. 
The  recommended  dose  is  160  mg  (4  tablets  of  40  mg)  taken  once  daily  for  3  weeks  followed  by  1 
week off therapy. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
A preclinical pharmacodynamics study has been submitted with this application. The environmental risk 
assessment (ERA) has been updated accordingly. In addition, 8 pharmacokinetic studies and 1 juvenile 
toxicity study were submitted. 
2.2.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
The  efficacy  of  regorafenib  on  human  GIST-derived  cells  was  assessed  in  xenograft  models  in 
immunodeficient mice. Tumours deriving from two cell lines, both bearing a constitutive active form of 
the  c-KIT  receptor  tyrosine  kinase,  were  generated  by  subcutaneous  implantation.  After  tumour 
establishment, mice were treated with regorafenib at 50 mg/kg daily by oral administration. One of the 
cell  lines,  GIST-T1  bearing  a  deletion  affecting  the  juxtamembrane  domain,  readily  induced  the 
formation  of  subcutaneous  tumours  that  disappeared  after  47  days  of  treatment  but  retrieved  the 
initial volume in the following 30 days during which animals received no treatment. A subsequent cycle 
of regorafenib administration for 30 days led to almost complete disappearance of measurable tumours 
but again tumour growth restarted after drug discontinuation. The other cell line, GIST-882 in which c-
KIT carries a K642E mutation, caused measurable tumour onset in about 1/3 of the host mice. Also in 
this  case  tumours  became  undetectable  after  9  days  of  regorafenib  administration  and  the  effect 
remained until the last day of treatment (day 100). Attempts were made to generate cells resistant to 
regorafenib by alternating cycles of treatment and wash-out, also after serial grafting of the tumours in 
different  mice,  but  a  clear  resistance  could  not  be  induced,  however  after  10  months  of  treatment 
some mice developed GIST-T1 tumours that were arrested in their growth but not reduced in volume 
by regorafenib. Imaging evaluation by FDG-PET showed a rapid reduction of metabolic activity already 
in the first days of treatment. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No additional secondary pharmacodynamic studies have been submitted. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No additional safety pharmacology studies have been submitted. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No specific pharmacodynamic drug interactions additional studies have been submitted. 
2.2.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 8/62 
 
 
 
 
 
The in vitro permeability of the regorafenib metabolites M-2 and M-5 were investigated using a Caco-2 
assay (study PH-37022). Comparison with 22 reference compounds (11 high and 11 low permeable) 
revealed M-2 and M-5 to be highly permeable.  
In order to support the clinical development of regorafenib in the paediatric population a toxicological 
investigation in juvenile rats was performed (Study PH-37181).  Toxicokinetic evaluation was 
performed after single dosing and after 20 days of treatment. At start of treatment, the animals were 
15 days old. For toxicokinetic evaluation, the concentrations of regorafenib as well as the two major 
human plasma metabolites M-2 and M-5 were determined in plasma samples at 1.5, 4, 7 and 24 hours 
after administration. Toxicokinetics revealed no evidence of sex-related differences in exposure to 
regorafenib. A markedly more than dose proportional increase in AUC0-24 was observed for the high 
dose group, while Cmax increased only slightly more than dose-proportional. No major changes were 
observed for Cmax in the low and medium dose group between Day 1 and Day 20, while slightly higher 
Cmax values were observed on Day 20 in the high dose group. A slight to moderate decrease in AUC0-24 
between Day 1 and Day 20 was observed in the low and medium dose groups, while a slight increase 
was observed in the high dose group. On Day 20 Cmax of M-2 and M-5 was low compared to exposure 
to regorafenib accounting for less than 1.2% compared to the respective Cmax value of the parent 
compound in the respective dose group.  
Studies on transporters (studies PH-37011 and PH-37006) indicated that the regorafenib metabolites 
M-2 and M-5 are most likely substrates of P-glycoprotein and BCRP.  
M-2 at concentrations of 2 and 10 μM, is not a substrate for BCRP in BCRP-transfected MDCKII cells; 
however, as far as unbound concentrations are considered, an involvement of BCRP in the excretion of 
M-2 and M-5 cannot be excluded, and definitive answers on this interactions will be derived from 
clinical data.  
IV administration of M2 or M5 to rats (studies PH-37018 and PH-37016) indicated that M-2 is not only 
eliminated by biotransformation to M-5 (via M-1) and M-8, but also excreted via bile and extra-biliary 
into the gut. Also M-1 and M-5 are secreted via bile and extra-biliary. In the gut, reduction by 
microbial gut flora results in the formation of regorafenib (out of M-2) and M-3 and M-4 (out of M-2 
and M-5). M-4 was the most prominent component in faeces. These data indicated reduction of M-5 by 
microbial gut flora to M-4. Partly reabsorbed M-4 is further metabolized to M-6, which is finally biliary 
excreted into faeces.  
The potential of regorafenib and its metabolites M-2 and M-5 to induce human CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and 
CYP2B6 mRNA expression was investigated in cultured human hepatocytes from three different human 
donors for 5 days (study PH-37214). The study revealed no inductive effect of regorafenib, M-2 and 
M-5 on human CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 mRNA expression levels after repeated exposure.  
The inhibitory potential of regorafenib and the two main metabolites M-2 and M-5 towards OCT1 and 
OCT3 was investigated in cultured hepatocytes (study PH-37023). The addition of regorafenib, M-2 and 
M-5 in the concentration range from 0.1 μM to 30 μM did not reduce the uptake of MPP+ (reference 
substrate for OCTs).  
2.2.4.  Toxicology 
No additional single or repeated dose toxicity studies, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity, reproduction 
toxicity or local tolerance studies have been submitted. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 9/62 
 
 
 
 
 
Other toxicity studies 
Regorafenib was administered orally (gavage) to groups of 12 male and 12 female Wistar rats per dose 
groups using a coprecipitate formulation with approximately 10 % regorafenib. Daily doses of 1, 2 and 
4 mg/kg of regorafenib were administered over a period of approximately 3 weeks (from post natal 
day 15 to 35) with an application volume of 5 mL/kg. A control group of 12 males and 12 females was 
treated with the same volume of the vehicle only. Additional 12 males and 12 females were treated 
likewise at 0, 1, 2 or 4 mg/kg and were used as recovery groups undergoing necropsy 4 weeks after 
end of treatment (except both sexes of the highest recovery dose group, which were not treated on 
study day 20 and 21). Additional rats (12 per dose group and sex and 3 per control group and sex for 
blood sampling on day 1/2 and 6 animals per dose group and sex and 3 per control group and sex on 
day 20) were treated likewise and used for toxicokinetic evaluation. The major findings of the study 
are presented in the table below. 
Table 1. Findings from Study PH-37181 
Dose 
(mg/kg)  
1 
2 
Cmax 
(μg/mL) 
Day 1: 
427 
Day 20: 
497 
Day 1:  
929 
Day 20: 
1050 
Findings  
No changes in mortality, clinical signs or body weight 
Hematology:  mild  increase  in  hemoglobine    concentration  (HB)  and 
haematocrit (HCT) in F, fully reversible at the end of the recovery period  
Blood chemistry: slight increase in total bilirubin (Bili-t) in M, fully reversible; 
slight decrease of protein in F  
Organ  weights:  reduction  in  absolute  and  relative  liver  weight  in  M,  fully 
reversible at the end of the recovery phase; decrease in absolute and relative 
thymus weight in F, fully reversible 
Histopathology:  diffuse  hyperplasia  with 
inflammation in the cecum; starry sky macrophages in thymus in M  
reduced  goblet  cells  and 
Clinical  Observations:  impaired  general  condition  such  as,  high-stepping 
gait,  piloerection,  findings  in  nose  in  both  sexes;  GI  effects  (changed  feces 
consistency in 1 F and distended abdomen in 1M, at necropsy); Mild to severe 
discoloration of teeth (12M, 2F) and severe findings in teeth, not reversible 
Body  weights: slight to  marked reduction in body weight in both sexes (the 
recovery  groups  were  less  affected  than  the  main  groups).  Completely 
reversible in M and F 
Hematology: mild increase in erythrocyte count (ERY) in F and slight increase 
in neutrophil count (NEUTRO) in M, fully reversible at the end of the recovery 
period 
Blood  Chemistry: minimal increase in Aspartate Aminotransferase (ASAT) in 
F, fully reversible; minimal to slight decrease of creatinine in M in the recovery 
phase;  slight  increase  in Bili-t in  F,  fully  reversible;  slight  decrease  of  protein 
in M  
Necropsy:  thickened  duodenum  in  1M  and  1F;  change  in  small  and  large  in 
testine at the end of the recovery period in 1M 
Organ  weights:  reduction  in  absolute  and  relative  liver  weight  in  F,  fully 
reversible at the end of the recovery phase; decrease in absolute and relative 
thymus  weight  in  M  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  period,  fully  reversible; 
decrease  in  absolute  and  relative  testes  weight  at  the  end  of  the  treatment 
period,  fully  reversible  at  end  of  recovery  phase.  Increase  in  absolute  and 
relative  weights  in  brain,  adrenal  glands,  lungs,  kidneys,  epididymides, 
prostate, seminal vesicles coagulation glands and ovaries 
Histopathology:  slight  or  few  changes  observed  at  terminal  sacrifice: 
hyperkeratosis in the forestomach; additionally gross dilation of duodenum (1 
animal),  minimal  or  slight  inflammation  or  degeneration  of  crypts  or  glands; 
diffuse  hyperplasia  with  reduced  goblet  cells  and  inflammation  in  the  cecum, 
reduced  germinal  centers/lymphoid  hyperplasia  of  peyer’s  patches  in  F; 
increased  adipocyte  content  in  sternal  bone  marrow.  Starry  sky  macrophages 
in  thymus  in  F;  increased  width  of  growth  zones  in  bone  marrow  in  few 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 10/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Day 1:  
1840 
Day 20: 
2610  
animals;  odontoblast  degeneration  and  dentin  alteration  in  teeth;  flattened 
follicular  epithelium  of  thyroid;  degeneration  of  the  germinal  epithelium  of 
testes 
Mortality: 2M killed in moribund state (squatting position, labored breathing, 
emaciation and piloerection, distended abdomen); 1F found dead and 1F killed 
in  moribund  state,  on  dosing  day  20  (findings:  high  stepping  gait,  distended 
abdomen,  emaciation,  decreased  feces  excretion,  decreased  water  intake, 
paleness  and  piloerection);  1F  killed  in  moribund  state  on  recovery  day  25 
(findings:  high-stepping  gait,  sunken  flanks,  distended  abdomen,  emaciation 
and increased teeth grow on the day before death). All of these animals were 
assigned to the recovery group. Effects on the GI tract, adrenal glands, teeth 
and bones, spleen and chest cavity at necropsy 
Clinical  observations:  paleness,  emaciation,  labored  breathing,  squatting 
position  and  a  decreased  food  and  water  intake  in  both  sexes;  effects  on  GI 
tract  (changed  feces  consistency,  distended  abdomen  in  both  sexes;  diffuse 
hyperplasia and inflammation in the small and large intestine; decreased feces 
excretion in 5F) and teeth. During the recovery phase, the number of findings 
on teeth increased and increased urinary excretion 
Body  weights:  slight  to  marked  reduction  in  body  weight  in  both  sexes  (the 
recovery  groups  were  less  affected  than  the  main  groups).  Completely 
reversible in F, still distinctly lower than in controls at the end of recovery in M 
Hematology: mild increase in erythrocyte count (ERY), HB and HCT in M fully 
reversible at the end of the recovery period; slight increase in neutrophil count 
(NEUTRO) in M and F; minimal increase still present at the M and F of the high 
dose  at  the  end  of  recovery;  slight  increase  of  monocyte  count  (MONO)  in  M 
and F; trend towards reversibility 
Blood Chemistry: slight decrease of glucose and creatinine (GLUCOSE, CREA) 
in F 
Necropsy:  Emaciation  of  all  F  and  9  out  of  12  M.  Discoloration  of  spleen  in  
1M and 3F. Reduction of thymus size in 2M, affected stomach areas in 4M and 
7F.  Change  in  small  and  large  intestine  consistency  of  both  sexes  and 
thickened duodenum in 10M and 12F; discoloration of bones in 6M, thickening 
of bones in 11M and discoloration of teeth in 11M and 8F 
Organ  weights: decrease in absolute and relative testes weight at the end of 
the  treatment  period,  fully  reversible  at  end  of  recovery  phase;  decrease  in 
absolute and relative heart weight in both sexes at the high dose at the end of 
treatment  phase,  fully  reversible  and  not  accompanied  by  any  morphological 
change.  Same  alterations  found  in  brain,  lung,  liver,  spleen,  kidney,  thymus, 
testes, and epidymides at the end of the recovery phase 
Histopathology:  Increased  intercurrent  mortality;  Pronounced  atrophy  of 
lymphoid  organs  and  bone  marrow  and  emaciation  (related  to  death  or 
reduced  general  condition  of  the  animals);  emaciation  and  retarded 
development/atrophy of various organs (liver, kidneys, skin, muscle, pituitary, 
male  and  female  genital  organs,  serous  salivary  glands);  hypocellularity  of 
bone marrow (related to reduced extramedullary hematopoietic activity in liver 
and  spleen);  atrophy  in  thymus,  spleen  and  lymph  nodes;  hyperkeratosis  in 
the  pyloric  mucosa,  haemorrhage, 
esophagus; 
inflammation,  necrosis  and  atrophy  in  glandular  stomach;  degeneration  and 
plump  villi  in  the  small  intestine,  hyperplasia  of  duodenum  (secondary 
changes:  inflammation  and  degeneration  of  the  pancreas)  and  inflammation 
(mucosa  and  Brunner’s  glands)  correlating  to  gross  dilation;  inflammation, 
reduced goblet cells and diffuse hyperplasia mainly in the cecum; prominent or 
hyperplastic bile ducts in the liver; starry sky macrophages in thymus in M and 
F  flattened  follicular  epithelium  of  thyroid;  degeneration  of  the  seminiferous 
epithelium in testes; increased atretic follicles in ovaries. Delayed and impaired 
bones  and  teeth  growth,  with  consequent  gross  discolorations  of  femur/knee, 
rib or teeth, and enlargement (femur/knee); increased width of cartilagineous 
growth  zones  in  the  bones,  rarefaction  and  disorganization  of  primary 
spongiosa  in  long  bone  metaphyses,  dentin  alteration  and  rarefaction  in  the 
teeth, odontoblast and ameloblast degeneration. 
Cortical haemorrhage and necrosis in the adrenal glands of several animals, 
secondarily to severe stress/severely reduced general condition. 
increased  height  of 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 11/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The toxicokinetic parameters on Day 1 and Day 20 are shown in the following table.  
Table 2. Study PH-37181: Toxicokinetic parameters on Day 1 and Day 20 
2.2.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The table below summarises the main results from the ERA. 
Table 3. Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): 
CAS-number (if available): 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
Pow 
PBT-assessment 
Parameter 
OECD117  
Result 
3.9 at pH 7.0 
Conclusion 
See below 
Bioaccumulation 
Persistence 
Result relevant 
for conclusion 
log Pow  
3.9 at pH 7.0 
BCF 
DT50 or ready 
> 2000 
DT50 = 181 days 
Conclusion 
see OECD 305 
study 
B 
P 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 12/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicity 
PBT-statement : 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC surfacewater 
biodegradability 
NOEC  
The compound is considered as PBT 
<0.14 µg/L  (Fish toxicity)  T 
Value 
0.0112 (proposed 
by the Applicant) 
Unit 
µg/L 
Other concerns (e.g. chemical 
class) 
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Adsorption-Desorption 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
Aerobic and Anaerobic 
Transformation in Aquatic 
Sediment systems 
Test protocol 
OECD 121 
OECD 301F 
OECD 308 
Results 
K oc = 5.6 
Not Readily biodegradable 
DT50, water < 1 day 
DT50, sediment = infinite 
DT50, whole system = infinite 
% shifting to sediment = 
ca 100% 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold 
Y 
N 
Remarks 
Because of the 
lack of relevant 
biodegradation, 
the test item is 
assumed to 
accumulate in the 
sediment. 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Study type  
Test protocol 
OECD 201 
Endpoint  value  Unit 
NOEC 
Remarks 
µg/L  Desmodesmus 
1.3 
OECD 211 
NOEC 
10.5 
µg/L 
subspicatus 
Algae, Growth Inhibition 
Test/Species  
Daphnia sp. Reproduction 
Test (New study for 
extension) 
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity 
Test/Species  
Activated Sludge, Respiration 
Inhibition Test  
Phase IIb Studies 
Bioaccumulation 
OECD 210 
OECD 209 
NOEC 
EC10 
NOEC 
OECD 305 
BCF 
Aerobic and anaerobic 
transformation in soil 
Soil Micro organisms: 
Nitrogen Transformation Test 
Terrestrial Plants, Growth 
Test/Species 
OECD 307 
DT50 
OECD 216 
OECD 208 
No 
inhibition 
NOEC 
Earthworm, Acute Toxicity 
Tests 
Collembola, Reproduction 
Test 
Sediment dwelling organism   OECD 218 
OECD 232 
OECD 207 
NOEC 
NOEC 
<0.14   µg/L  Pimephales 
0.043 
> 
40000 
promelas 
µg/L 
2653-
4102 
181 
days 
1000  mg/k
100 
100 
100 
g 
mg/k
g 
mg/k
g 
mg/k
g 
%lipids: 6 
> 2000 (B) 
1 sandy loam soil 
Zea mays, 
Rhaphanus 
sativus, Pisum 
sativum 
Eisenia fetida 
Folsomia candida 
NOEC 
1.25  mg/k
g 
Chironomus 
riparius 
2.2.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Treatment with regorafenib resulted in significant reduction of tumour volume. Cessation of treatment 
resulted in regrowth of the tumours, but these were not regorafenib resistant, as subsequent re-
challenge showed similar efficacy as the first round of treatment. The pre-clinical PD study together 
with the previously demonstrated anti-tumour activity indicates that regorafenib may be efficacious in 
the treatment of GIST. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 13/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As shown by in vitro results, regorafenib and its metabolites M-2 and M-5 are not inducers of human 
CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and CYP3A4.  
In humans, it can be postulated that M-5 is eliminated from plasma by biliary and to a smaller extent 
by extra-biliary secretion into the gut, and that pyridine M-4 can be formed by reduction of pyridine N-
oxide M-5 by microbial gut flora. Furthermore, a proportion of M-5 is converted most likely via M-4 into 
the carboxylic acid M-6. 
M-2 and M-5 show a high permeability in in vitro Caco-2 assay. 
Thus, drugs that are inhibitors of P-glycoprotein and BCRP could lead to drug-drug interactions with 
regorafenib (inhibition of the excretion of M-2 and M-5 excretion via P-glycoprotein and BCRP). 
Regorafenib, M-2 and M-5 at clinically relevant concentrations are not inhibitors of OCT1 and OCT3. 
Based on these results, no drug-drug interactions due to the inhibition of OCT1 and OCT3 by 
regorafenib and its two main metabolites are expected. 
The submitted juvenile toxicity study design was described in the Paediatric Investigational Plan as 
suggested and agreed with the PDCO of the EMA. As expected from the previously conducted repeated 
dose toxicity studies in adult animals, dosing with regorafenib resulted in a multitude of adverse 
effects, some of which were not fully reversible. Apart from the known toxicity in adults, the juvenile 
toxicity study indicated that paediatric patients will also be susceptible to adverse effects in bone, teeth 
and development of sexual organs. It should be noted that the major metabolites in rats (M-3 and M-
4) are only present in trace amounts in humans. As the metabolites could be (partially) responsible for 
the adverse effects observed, relevance for humans is uncertain.  
The  MAH’s  proposal  to  refine  the  Fpen  based  on  EU  incidence  data  is  not  in  compliance  with  EMA 
guidelines.  Concerns  about  refinement  of  Fpen  already  expressed  at  the  time  of  the  Stivarga  initial 
marketing  authorization  application  are  still  valid.  In  particular,  the  MAH  should  provide  reasonably 
justified  market  penetration  data  and  therefore  should  consider  to  calculate  differently  refined 
PECsurfacewater.  One  option  to  be  considered  would  be  the  following:  PECsurfacewater  calculation 
(refined according to GLOBOCAN2008 5-years prevalence data):  Fpen = 5-years prevalence/EU2008 
population  =  924,835/497,659,810  =  0.0019  PECsurfacewater  =  DOSEai  x  Fpen 
/ 
WASTEinhab*DILUTION factor = 160mg*0.0019 / 200*10 = 0.000152 mg/L = 0.152 µg/L.  
Accordingly  to  EMA  guidelines,  PECgroundwater  is  PECsurfacewater  *  0.25  =  0.0375  µg/L. 
PECsurfacewater resulting from the extension to GIST cancer (0.00774 µg/L) should then be added to 
this figure and PNECs calculated accordingly. 
A  new  experiment  on  Daphnia  sp.  Reproduction  Test  (PH-37250)  has  been  provided  thus  fixing  the 
deviations from the guidelines identified in the initial Stivarga marketing authorisation application. 
Moreover, as already highlighted at that time, deviations from the guidelines occurred in the exposure 
to the test substance in Earthworm, Acute Toxicity Tests, as a consequence of the poor solubility of the 
test molecule this was directly mixed to soil samples. However, OECD 207 defines a different protocol 
in case a substance is not readily soluble in water: “The test substance is dissolved in water (if soluble 
up to a concentration of 1000 mg/l) or in a suitable organic solvent (e.g. acetone, hexane or 
chloroform), as appropriate, to give a range of known concentrations”.  
An increasing weight effect has been recorded in fish and seedling plant toxicity tests that can be 
referred to the tested substance regorafenib. 
At the time of the initial marketing authorisation, the CHMP recommended the following points to be 
addressed: 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 14/62 
 
 
 
 
 
–  An adsorption/desorption study with 3 soils and 2 sludges (OECD 106) 
–  A toxicity study with a green algal species (OECD 201) 
–  A chronic toxicity study with Daphnia magna (OECD 211) 
–  A chronic toxicity study with fish; early life stage toxicity test (OECD 210). 
The results of these studies are still pending and the MAH committed to submit them by November 
2014. 
2.2.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical studies submitted by the MAH are conducted according to the current scientific 
guidelines and support the sought indication.  
A conclusion on the environmental risk of regorafenib is not possible at present. The requested phase 
II studies OECD 106, OECD 201, OECD 210 and OECD 211 are still pending and the MAH committed to 
submit them by November 2014. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
For the current application in GIST, PK data of regorafenib was obtained in the investigator sponsored 
study 14935 (PK intensive data) and in the pivotal phase 3 study 14874 (sparse PK data). 
Furthermore, the original popPK analysis based on study 14387 in mCRC was updated with data from 
the pivotal study 14874 and an exploratory exposure-response analysis for both efficacy and safety 
was conducted for the Phase 3 study 14874 separately, and in addition, a combined exploratory 
exposure-response analysis for safety was conducted for both Phase 3 studies 14874 and 14387.  
Steady-state pharmacokinetics of regorafenib and metabolites were analysed in a phase 2 study 14935 
in patients with histologically-confirmed metastatic and/or unresectable GIST with progression while 
receiving imatinib, or intolerance to imatinib, and prior failure of sunitinib due to disease progression. 
Blood samples for PK analysis of regorafenib and metabolites M-2, M-4, and M-5 were collected on Day 
15 of cycle 1 at the following times: pre dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 6 and 24 hours post-dose. 16 patients were 
valid for PK analysis. 
Table 4 below summarizes the PK parameters of the parent compound regorafenib and its metabolites 
M-2 and M-5 in plasma determined after multiple doses.  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 15/62 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Study 14935 – Pharmacokinetic parameters of regorafenib and its metabolites M-2 
and M-5 in plasma after multiple oral administration of regorafenib 160 mg once daily (Cycle 
1, Day 15) 
As PK data was collected on Day 15 of Cycle 1, regorafenib and M-2 are expected to be in steady state, 
whereas M-5 steady state concentrations are not yet achieved due to the longer half-life.  
A combined exploratory exposure-response analysis for safety was conducted for both Phase 3 studies 
14874 and 14387.  
Study 14387  was a pivotal  phase III study to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of regorafenib 
in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have progressed after failure of standard therapy. 
Study 14874 was a pivotal  Phase 3 study (efficacy and safety) in patients with metastatic and/or 
unresectable gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) whose disease had progressed despite prior 
treatments with at least imatinib and sunitinib.  
All subjects from the phase III studies 14387 and 14874, being treated with the investigational drug 
(regorafenib was administered at 160 mg od p.o., 3 weeks on therapy followed by 1 week off therapy 
to comprise a cycle of 4 weeks, plus BSC)  and being valid for PK evaluation were included in the 
population PK analysis. The total number of patients used for modelling was 381 from study 14387 and 
80 from study 14874. 
A two-stage approach was applied: first parent regorafenib was described. Subsequently the model 
and individual PK parameters (Empirical Bayes Estimate or EBE) of parent regorafenib were fixed and 
used as input to describe the PK of the metabolites. A covariate analysis was performed investigating a 
set of prespecified covariates by means of forward inclusion and backward deletion and applying 
statistical criteria. The sparse sampling in the phase III studies allowed estimation of interindividual 
variability on only one PK parameter per analyte. All variability was assumed to be on CL, KM-M2 and 
FRM5, which determine the elimination or formation of the analytes and thereby directly influence their 
exposure. Factors affecting the PK of regorafenib, M-2 and M-5 were investigated in Studies 14387 and 
14874. In the analysis, the impact of the variability in the continuous covariates is shown by simulating 
both Cav,md in a typical subject with the median value for a covariate and the exposure in subjects 
with the 5th and 95th percentile of that covariate. For all other covariates, the median covariate values 
are assumed. The results are then compared to the overall variability in exposure.  
The population PK model was used to evaluate intrinsic factors on the PK of regorafenib, M-2 and M-5 
(study, sex, body weight, BMI, body height, age, race, as well as baseline values of the following 
parameters: estimated glomerular filtration rate, plasma albumin, plasma total protein, haematocrit, 
hemoglobin, and liver function parameters [total bilirubin, ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase] and hepatic 
function categories). Of the evaluated covariates, study, BMI and bilirubin significantly influenced 
regorafenib CL. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 16/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These covariates also influenced the PK of the metabolites through their effect on parent regorafenib. 
In addition, study, race (Asian or Caucasian) and body weight were determined to have significant 
effects on the PK parameters KM-M2 (Michaelis constant of M-2) and FRM5 (fraction of total cleared M-
2 transformed to M-5) of the population PK model. Sex had a significant effect on FRM5, whereby it 
only affected the PK of M-5. The median exposure of M2 and M5 was higher in Caucasians than in 
Asians and the median exposure of M5 was higher in females than in males 
Other tested covariates (age, height, glomerular filtration rate, plasma albumin, total plasma protein, 
hepatic function category and hepatic function parameters [ALT, AST and alkaline phosphatase]) were 
not significant. Considerable variability remained in exposure of regorafenib after taking into account 
the effects of the significant categorical covariates (study, race and sex). All covariates with significant 
effect had a relatively minor impact on exposure compared to this remaining variability which could not 
be explained by covariates. As a result, the exposure ranges for the various covariate combinations 
show high overlap. 
An exposure-response efficacy analysis  of regorafenib in phase III study 14874 has been submitted. 
The primary exposure parameter was the population PK model-derived average concentration over a 
24 h dosing interval after 21 daily doses of 160 mg (Cav,md). Cav,md reflects individual differences in 
the pharmacokinetic parameters of regorafenib and its pharmacologically active metabolites M2 and 
M5 without taking into account differences in individual dosing.  The goal of the first part of this 
analysis was to describe the exposure-response relationships of regorafenib and its active metabolites 
in patients of Study 14874 with regard to the following parameters: PFS, OS, and ODC  objective 
disease control rate); patients whose best response was not progressive disease (ie complete 
response, partial response or stable disease), using survival analysis and logistic-regression analysis. 
The goal of the second part of this analysis was to describe the exposure-response relationship of 
regorafenib with the tumour dynamics in patients of Study 14874. 
No evidence was found for an exposure-response relationship for PFS and ODC or tumour dynamics 
with 160 mg regorafenib given in 3 weeks-on / 1 week-off dose regimen in Study 14874. Preliminary 
data for OS suggest that OS was longer for patients with higher total Cav,md  Data for OS were 
preliminary in the sense that data collection for OS was ongoing at the database cut-off date. As a 
result, the dataset used for this analysis contained only 13 uncensored events. Therefore, any 
conclusions from this analysis with regard to OS should be considered as highly tentative and smaller 
baseline sum of tumour diameters. 
2.3.3.  PK/PD modelling 
PH- 37281  Exploratory analysis of relationship between the exposure to regorafenib parent compound, 
regorafenib aggregate, and regorafenib total and relevant safety data for pooled data from GRID 
(Study 14874) study. 
The objectives of the exploratory analyses were to explore a relationship between regorafenib (the 
population pharmacokinetic (Pop PK) model-derived Cav,md exposure estimate) and selected 
commonly occurring adverse events (AEs) in Study 14874. 
For regorafenib parent compound, the only consistent exposure-dependent increase was seen for rash, 
total bilirubin and median indirect bilirubin.  The incidence of rash increased with increasing exposure 
from 15.0% to 60.0%.Total bilirubin increased with increasing parent exposure from 20.0% to 60.0% 
(this trend was observed for grades 1, 2, and 4). Over the course of the study, mean indirect bilirubin 
showed tendencies towards an increase with increasing parent exposure. Regarding the correlation 
between the relevant safety parameters and aggregate exposure (Cav,md; micromol/L) divided into 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 17/62 
 
 
 
 
 
quartiles of aggregate exposure during the study, there was a slight exposure-dependent increase in 
the grade 3 incidence of “any adverse event” category (from 60% in first quartile to 80% in fourth 
quartile). 
Similar to the parent, there was no notable exposure-dependent increase in the overall incidence of all 
grades of analyzed AEs with increasing aggregate exposure except for total bilirubin and mean indirect 
bilirubin. 
The incidence of diarrhea increased with increasing aggregate exposure from 40.0% to 65.0% which 
was mainly due to differences in grade 1 diarrhea. The incidence of rash increased from 15.0% to 
65.0%. There was a slight trend for increased grade 3 hypertension with increasing aggregate 
exposure (from 15 to 40%) although the overall incidence did not show a clear trend towards 
increasing frequency with increasing exposure. Total bilirubin increased with increasing aggregate 
exposure from 20.0% to 60.0% which was mainly driven by an increase in grade 1. Over the course of 
the study, mean indirect bilirubin showed a tendency towards an increase with increasing aggregate 
exposure.Similar to parent, there was an exposure-dependent increase in the grade 3 incidence of 
“any adverse event” category. 
Of note, similar to parent, no increase in AST and ALT was observed with increasing exposure; the 
highest incidence of grade 1 ALT and AST was reported for the lowest quartile of aggregate exposure. 
The incidence of rash increased with increasing total exposure from 5.0% to 50.0%. The incidence 
diarrhea increased with increasing total exposure from 35.0% to 75.0% which is mainly driven by an 
increase in grade 1 and grade 3 diarrhea. The incidence of hypertension increased with increasing total 
exposure from 60.0% to 80.0% which was mainly driven by an increase of grade 3 hypertension. The 
incidence of hemorrhage increased with increasing total exposure from 0% to 25.0% mainly due to 
grade 1 hemorrhage (however, only 6 grade 1 events, and 9 events overall were reported).Total 
bilirubin increased with increasing total exposure from 15.0% to 40.0%. Over the course of the study, 
mean indirect bilirubin showed a tendency towards an increase with increasing total exposure. 
Similar to parent and aggregate, there was a slight exposure-dependent increase in the grade 3 
incidence of “any adverse event” category with increasing total exposure, except for a lower incidence 
in 3rd quartile. Of note, similar to parent and aggregate, no increase in AST and ALT was observed; 
the highest incidence of grade 1 ALT and AST increase was reported for the lowest quartile of total 
exposure. 
PH-37105 Exploratory analysis of relationship between the exposure to regorafenib parent compound, 
regorafenib aggregate, and regorafenib total and relevant safety data for pooled data from CORRECT 
(study 14387) GRID (Study 14874) 
The objectives of the exploratory analyses were to explore a relationship between exposure to 
regorafenib parent compound, aggregate regorafenib (regorafenib parent compound and its two active 
metabolites M-2 and M-5 adjusted for protein-binding), and total regorafenib (regorafenib parent 
compound and its two active metabolites M-2 and M-5 without adjustment of protein binding) and 
relevant safety data.  
The data comparing the exposure to regorafenib parent compound, regorafenib aggregate, and 
regorafenib total and relevant safety data suggest no notable exposure-dependent increase in the total 
incidence of any AE, any SAE, diarrhoea, mucositis, HFSR, hypertension, haemorrhage, elevated ALT, 
elevated AST, platelets, and proteinuria. For regorafenib parent compound, regorafenib aggregate, and 
regorafenib total, there was no consistent exposure-dependent increase in the total incidence of Grade 
4/5 or SAE outcomes. A mild trend toward an increasing frequency of AEs with increasing exposure 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 18/62 
 
 
 
 
 
was noted for indirect bilirubin, total bilirubin, and rash. Causality between elevated bilirubin and 
regorafenib exposure cannot be determined from these data, as total bilirubin at baseline was found to 
influence regorafenib exposure The incidence of elevated total bilirubin and mean and median indirect 
bilirubin values increased with increasing Cav,md quartile for regorafenib parent, regorafenib 
aggregate, and regorafenib total. This observation could be attributed to inhibition of bilirubin 
glucuronidation by regorafenib, as in vitro studies have shown regorafenib (and its metabolites) to be a 
potent inhibitor of UGT1A1 and UGT1A9. However, it should also be noted that increased total bilirubin 
(which could indicate impaired liver function) at baseline in Study 14387 was associated with increased 
regorafenib levels, based on the population PK analysis. 
2.3.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The median exposure of regorafenib, M2 and M5 was higher in study 14387 than in study 14874. The 
median exposure of M2 and M5 was higher in Caucasians than in Asians and the median exposure of 
M5 was higher in females than in males. There was no evidence for any additional intrinsic factors 
impacting the PK of regorafenib, M2 or M5. All significant covariate effects had a relatively minor 
impact on exposure compared to the remaining unexplained variability. Therefore, the clinical 
relevance of the identified covariate effects is limited. The impact of all significant covariates  for 
exposures of regorafenib and two metabolites was small compared to the remaining variability. 
In the phase 3 study 14874, exposure-efficacy analysis indicated that regorafenib, aggregate, or total 
(regorafenib+M-2+M-5) exposure was not predictive for efficacy: no impact of exposure on PFS, OS or 
ODC was observed in the exposure range of study 14847. This suggests that there is little risk of 
underexposure at the proposed dosing. This was further supported that patients in the regorafenib 
group who had dose reduction did not have a shorter PFS than patients without dose reduction. 
The PK of regorafenib, M-2 and M-5 are comparable in GIST patients as PK in the original application in 
mCRC and other cancer patients. 
Consistent with the exposure-toxicity correlations observed in mCRC patients, an exposure-dependent 
increase was seen for rash, total bilirubin and median indirect bilirubin in GIST patients. Newly 
observed in study 14874 was the correlation between grade 3 AEs diarrhea and the total exposure 
regorafenib and metabolites 
2.3.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
In conclusion, no additional intrinsic factors impacting the PK of regorafenib, M2 or M5 nor a clear 
relationship between drug/metabolite exposure and efficacy parameters or safety data have been 
identified from the new pharmacological data submitted. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
2.4.1.  Dose response study 
No dose-response studies were submitted (see discussion on clinical efficacy). 
2.4.2.  Main study 
Study 14874 (GRID) 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 19/62 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 14874 was a pivotal multi-centre, multi-national, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
phase III trial comparing regorafenib plus best supportive care (BSC) versus placebo plus BSC in 
patients with metastatic and/or unresectable GIST who experienced disease progression or intolerance 
to imatinib, as well as disease progression while on sunitinib therapy. 
Methods 
Study participants 
The GRID study population included patients with histologically confirmed metastatic and/or 
unresectable GIST, who experienced disease progression or intolerance to imatinib, as well as disease 
progression while on sunitinib therapy. Additionally disease progression after other therapies was 
allowed, with the exception of prior treatment with any other VEGFR inhibitor. According to the 
inclusion criteria, patients were required to have an ECOG Performance Status score of 0-1, age ≥ 18 
years, measurable disease according by modified RECIST criteria (version 1.1) and adequate bone 
marrow, renal and hepatic functions.  
Patients with symptomatic brain metastases or meningeal tumours were excluded as well as patients 
with pheochromocytoma, or with seizure disorders requiring medication. Other main exclusion criteria 
were presence of uncontrolled hypertension, unstable angina pectoris or new onset of angina within 3 
months, myocardial infarction within 6 months, congestive heart failure ≥ New York Heart Association 
class 2, cardiac arrhythmias requiring anti-arrythmic therapy (except beta blockers or digoxin), venous 
thrombotic events within 3 months before start, any diathesis bleeding or haemorrhage or bleeding ≥ 
CTCAE grade 3 within 4 weeks, healing wound, ulcer or bone fracture, persistent proteinuria of CTCAE 
grade≥3. Patients with interstitial lung disease with ongoing symptoms at the time of screening, with 
left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <50%, with any malabsorption condition, with persistent 
proteinuria of NCI-CTCAE version 4.0 >grade 2, or either pleural effusion or ascites that caused 
respiratory compromise (>NCI-CTCAE version 4.0 grade 2 dyspnoea) were not allowed to participate 
to the study. 
Treatments 
A total of 199 patients were randomised (2:1) to receive either regorafenib or matching placebo 160 
mg (4 x 40 mg tablets) OD orally for 3 weeks followed by 1 week off therapy (cycle of 4 weeks) plus 
BSC. Regorafenib or placebo has to be taken in the morning with approximately 240 ml of water after 
a low-fat breakfast. Up to two regorafenib dose-reductions due to toxicity were allowed (from 160 mg 
to 120 mg to 80 mg). After implementation of a dose reduction, dose re-escalation was permitted 
provided that toxicities were resolved to grade <3 (or <2 in case of hand-foot syndrome [HFS]). 
BSC included any concomitant medications or treatments: antibiotics, analgesics, radiation therapy for 
pain control (limited to bone metastases), corticosteroids, transfusions, psychotherapy, growth factors, 
palliative surgery, or any other symptomatic therapy necessary to provide BSC, except other 
investigational anti-tumour agents or anti-neoplastic chemo/hormonal/immune/radio-therapy. 
Patients were treated until disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 (per blinded central radiology 
review), clinical progression, unacceptable toxicity, and/or consent withdrawal. Tumour assessments 
were performed every 4 weeks for the first 3 months, every 6 weeks for the subsequent 3 months, and 
every 8 weeks until the end of study drug administration. After central review had assessed the 
patients as having progressive disease (PD), patients had the option of entering an open-label phase 
and receiving treatment with regorafenib irrespective of the randomised treatment (regorafenib or 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 20/62 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo) received. Upon discontinuation of study drug patients were followed up for survival every 3 
months, with the exception of patients who specifically withdrew consent. 
During treatment, caution was required in case of concomitant treatment with agents interfering with 
CYP enzymes or glucuronsyl transferases UGT1A1 and 1A9, due to possible drug-drug interactions with 
regorafenib. Use of bisphosphonates or erythropoietin in patients under chronic treatment was allowed. 
Concomitant radiotherapy was not allowed.   
Objectives 
The primary objective of the study was to show superiority of regorafenib plus BSC versus placebo plus 
BSC in terms of Progression Free Survival (PFS) as assessed by independent radiological review (IRC).  
Secondary objectives included comparison between the two study arms of Overall Survival (OS), time 
to progression (TTP), objective tumour response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR, where stable 
disease must be at least 12 weeks in duration) and duration of response.  
Exploratory objectives were evaluation of health related quality of life (according to the EORTC QLQ 
C30 and EQ 5D questionnaires), secondary PFS, exposure-response relationship, safety and 
pharmacokinetics. A biomarker analysis was also included as exploratory.   
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary study endpoint was PFS, defined as the time from randomization to the date of first 
observed radiological progression per blinded central radiology review, or death due to any cause, if 
death occurred before progression. The actual date of radiological assessments was used for the 
calculation. Patients without tumour progression or death at the time of analysis were censored at their 
last date of radiological tumour assessment.  
Secondary endpoints included OS (defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause), 
TTP (defined as the time from randomization to radiological progression), ORR (defined as the 
percentage of patients with complete response [CR] or partial response [PR] according to RECIST 1.1 
criteria), DCR (defined as the percentage of patients with CR, PR or stable disease [SD]) and duration 
of response.  
Exploratory endpoints included evaluation of health related quality of life.  EORTC QLQ-C30 and EQ-5D 
questionnaires were administered at baseline, on Day 1 of Cycles 2-4, and every other cycle thereafter 
and  at  end  of  treatment  visit.  Higher  scores  of  the  EORTC  QLQ-C30  (range  0-100)  and  EQ-5D 
represent a higher level of functioning and better HRQoL. Change of ≥10 points in EORTC QLQ-C30 or, 
0.07  to  0.12  points  on  the  EQ-5D  index  or  of  7-12  points  on  the  visual  analogue  scale  (VAS)  were 
considered as clinically meaningful. 
Other exploratory endpoints included secondary PFS (defined as the time from first progression until 
second progression or death, during or after open-label treatment with regorafenib), exposure-
response relationship, safety and pharmacokinetics.  
All efficacy variables related to tumour response and disease progression were evaluated by central 
radiology evaluation based on RECIST, version 1.1 with the following modifications: no lymphonodes 
and no bone lesions were chosen as target lesions, and PET scan was not considered acceptable for 
radiological evaluation. Moreover, a progressively growing new tumour nodule within a pre-existing 
tumour mass must be expanding on at least two sequential imaging studies or must be at least 2 cm in 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 21/62 
 
 
 
 
 
size and a new active lesion (e.g. enhancing with contrast or other criteria to rule out artifact) in order 
to be considered as evidence of progression. 
Sample size 
The sample size was based on the primary efficacy endpoint of PFS. Assuming a one-sided alpha of 
0.01, a power of 90%, a 100% increase in median time of PFS, and an allocation ratio of 2:1 between 
the experimental and the control arm, approximately 122 events were required. Based on the over-
recruitment of 29 patients to 199 total randomised patients, the target number of PFS events was 
increased to approximately 144 to maintain the grade of maturity of the study. The power to detect an 
improvement in PFS of 100% was increased from 90% to 94%. No interim analyses for efficacy or 
futility were planned for the primary efficacy endpoint PFS. 
At the time of the final PFS analysis, an interim analysis of the secondary efficacy endpoint OS was 
designed. The O'Brien Fleming-type alpha spending approach was used for the determination of the 
significance thresholds, in order to control the overall 1-sided alpha for OS at 0.025 level or less. The 
final analysis of OS was planned when approximately 160 events have been observed which provides 
84% power to detect a 67% increase in median time to death from 6 months in the control arm to 10 
months in the experimental arm. 
Randomisation 
Patients were assigned randomly in a 2:1 ratio to receive either regorafenib plus BSC or placebo plus 
BSC. They were stratified by the following factors: 3rd versus 4th line therapy or beyond and 
geographical region (Asia versus rest of the world). 
Blinding (masking) 
This was a double-blind study. 
Statistical methods 
The primary population for the efficacy analysis is the Full Analysis Set (FAS), which is identical to the 
ITT analysis set and is defined as all randomised patients.  
The PFS of the two treatment groups (regorafenib vs placebo) was compared using a stratified log rank 
test with a one-sided alpha of 0.01 stratified by the same stratification factors as used for 
randomization. The hazard ratio of regorafenib over placebo and its 98% CI was calculated using a 
stratified Cox model by the same stratification factors as used for randomisation.  
Sensitivity analyses were performed as supportive to the primary PFS analysis. These included, a PFS 
comparison considering only the first 122 PFS events as initially planned in the protocol, PFS un-
stratified analyses and PFS analyses based on local investigators assessment. Moreover, the times to 
first, second, etc. tumour evaluations were displayed using Kaplan-Maier curves.  
Subgroup Analyses based on descriptive statistics, log-rank test p-values and hazard ratio estimates 
with 95% and 98% CIs for PFS were performed considering as stratification levels, age, ECOG 
performance status, duration of treatment with imatinib, geographical region and some subgroups with 
defined mutations. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 22/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
l
Assessed for Eligibility 
(n=240) 
Randomised (n=199) 
Excluded (n=41) 
Screening failure n=29 
Adverse event n=3 
Death n=4 
Patient’s withdrawal n=5 
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
regorafenib + BSC (n=133) 
placebo + BSC (n=66) 
Received regorafenib (n=132) 
Did not receive regorafenib (n=1): 
Received placebo (n=66) 
Did not receive placebo (n=0): 
Discontinued double-blind therapy (n=38): 
n=20 Progression (radiological) 
n=1 Progression (clinical) 
n=2 Death 
n=4 Refused therapy 
n=1 Other 
n=2 Protocol violation 
n= 3 AEs without PD 
n= 5 AEs with associated PD 
Discontinued double-blind therapy (n=7): 
n=2 Progression (radiological) 
n=1 Progression (clinical) 
n=0 Death 
n=0 Refused therapy 
n=0 Other 
n=0 Protocol violation 
n=0 AEs without PD 
n=4 AEs with associated PD 
Still on double-blind therapy (n=53) 
Started open-label regorafenib (n=41) 
Still on double-blind therapy (n=3) 
Started open-label regorafenib (n=56) 
Analysed for Efficacy (ITT) (n=133):  
Analysed for Efficacy (ITT) (n=66)  
-  with PFS event (n=81)  
- 
with PFS event (n=63)  
Analysed for Safety (n=132) 
Analysed for Safety (n=66) 
Recruitment 
From January to August 2011, a total of 199 patients were randomised.  A total of 57 centres across 
17 countries enrolled 240 patients: Germany (32 [16%]), USA (26 [13%]), Italy (20 [10%]), France 
(19 [9.5%]), Japan (17 [8.5%]), South Korea (16 [8%]). All other countries had < 12 patients each.  
Conduct of the study 
The original study protocol dated 05 October 2010 was subsequently amended 3 times. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 23/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendment 1 (dated 09 February 2011) essentially implemented modified RECIST version 1.1 for 
evaluation of tumor progression, clarified the maximum of dose reductions allowed (two), permitted 
(or not) concomitant medications, study procedures during follow-up periods.  
Amendment 2 (dated 26 July 2011) essentially included recommendations for monitoring of liver 
function and for rehydration if clinically indicated in case of diarrhea, mucositis anorexia, and 
clarifications regarding adverse events of special interest and hand-foot syndrome. 
Amendment 3 (dated 27 September 2011) increased the number of PFS (form 122 to 144) and OS 
events required for analyses due to the increased current number of randomized patients (199 instead 
of the planned 170). Moreover, the possibility to receive open-label regorafenib after disease 
progression was included. 
Protocol deviation/violations were reported in 80% (107) of patients treated with regorafenib and 74% 
(49) of patients treated with placebo. However, major protocol deviations were reported in 7.5% and 
6% of patients in the regorafenib and placebo arms, respectively. Major procedural protocol deviations 
were primarily a failure to complete Quality of life questionnaires.  
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic and disease characteristics are summarised in the following Table. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 24/62 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Baseline and Demographic Characteristics in 14874 study (FAS) 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 25/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Table 6.  Analysis sets 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint 
The efficacy results in terms of the primary endpoint of PFS (cut-off date January 26, 2012) are 
presented in the table 7 and figures 1 and 2. 
Table 7. Progression-free survival-144 PFS events, double-blind period, central assessment 
(FAS) 
Patients randomised 
Progressive disease or died 
Censored 
Progression free survival (days) 
Placebo + BSC 
Regorafenib + BSC 
66 
63 (95.5%) 
3 (4.5%) 
133 
81 (60.9%) 
52 (39.1%) 
Median (95% CI) 
28 (28, 32) 
147 (122, 173) 
Log-rank p-value (stratified) 
<0.000001 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)  
0.268 (0.185, 0.388) 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 26/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Kaplan–Meier Plot of PFS in 14874 (GRID) study 
Figure 2. Forest Plot PFS study 14874 
Secondary endpoints 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 27/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Overall Survival  
The efficacy results in terms of the secondary endpoint of OS (cut-off date January 26, 2012) are 
presented in the table 8 and figures  3 and 4. 
Table  8.  Overall  Survival  14874  (GRID)  Study  (FAS,  uncorrected  and  corrected  for  cross-
over 
Figure 3. Forest Plot OS study 14874 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 28/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of  note,  at  the  time  of  the  primary  analysis  56  patients  (84%)  enrolled  in  the  placebo  arm  had 
crossed-over to the regorafenib arm after progression was determined. 
According to the updated analysis, based on 139 events (cut-off 31 January 2014, 91 [68.4%] in the 
regorafenib arm and 48 [72.7%] in the placebo arm) no significant difference between the two study 
arms  was  observed:  median  OS  was  17.4  months  in  both  arms,  HR  0.85,  95%  CI  0.597-1.206, 
p=0.180.  
Figure 4. Overall survival updated analysis, Kaplan-Meier curves, data cut-off Jan 31, 2014 
• 
Time to Progression (TTP) 
The percentage of patients with disease progression was 93.9% in the placebo group and 57.1% in the 
regorafenib  group  (cut-off  date  of  26  January  2012).  Median  TTP  was  165  days  in  the  regorafenib 
group  and 28 days in the placebo group (HR 0.248, [95% CI: 0.170-0.364, p<0.000001]). 
The  results  of  an  additional  analysis  where  time  to  progression  was  evaluated  according  to 
investigator’s assessment were consistent with the analysis according to central assessment (HR 0.197, 
p<0.000001, median TTP was 224 days vs 52 days with regorafenib and placebo, respectively.  
•  Overall Response Rate (ORR) and Disease Control Rate (DCR) 
No  cases  of  complete  response  (CR)  were  observed  in  both  arms.  Overall  response  rate  was  not 
statistically significant different between the two treatment arms: 4.5% with regorafenib +BSC versus 
1.5% with placebo plus BSC (p=0.142097).  
Disease  Control  Rate  (DCR:  CR+  PR+  SD)  was  52.6%  (70  patients)  in  regorafenib  group    compared 
with 9.1% (6 patients) in the placebo group.  
•  Duration of response  
The  median  duration  of  response  (central  assessment)  for  regorafenib-treated  patients  was  99  days. 
Only one placebo treated patient reported PR and duration of response duration was 30 days. 
Exploratory endpoints 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 29/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Patient-Reported Outcomes: EORTC QLQ-C30 and EQ-5D  
EORTC QLQ-C30 was completed by 183 (92%) patients at baseline, 168 (84%) patients at cycle 2, and 
128  (64%)  patients  at  cycle  3.  Mean  changes  in  scores  from  baseline  for  the  EORTC  QLQC30  global 
health status and the 5 functional dimensions showed a slight deterioration in patients’ QoL of similar 
magnitude both in the regorafenib and placebo groups. Mean changes from baseline were not clinically 
meaningful  (ie,  ≤10  points),  except  for  the  role  function  subscale  in  the  regorafenib  group.  The 
analysis  of  time-adjusted  AUC  for  the  EORTC  QLQ-C30  showed  that  there  was  no  difference  in  the 
longitudinal  evolution  of  the  least-squares  mean  (LS  Mean)  total  scores  between  placebo  and 
regorafenib.  The  EORTC  QLQ-C30  change  from  baseline  at  Cycles  2,  3,  4  and  EOT  (double-blind 
treatment period (PRO) are presented in the table below. 
Table 9. EORTC QLQ-C30 change from baseline at Cycles 2, 3, 4 and EOT (PRO) 
EQ-5D Questionnaire was completed by 188 (94%) patients at baseline, 163 (82%) patients at cycle 2, 
and  128  (64%)  patients  at  cycle  3.  Mean  changes  in  scores  from  baseline  for  EQ-5D  index  and  VAS 
were,  overall,  similar  between  the  regorafenib  +  BSC  and  placebo  +  BSC  groups.  The  differences  in 
mean scores from baseline reflected a deterioration in health status for both groups. For both the EQ-
5D  and  the  VAS,  only  the  changes  from  baseline  at  EOT  were  clinically  important  (based  on  the 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 30/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
minimum clinically important difference). The analysis of time-adjusted AUC for the EQ-5D index and 
VAS  showed  that  regorafenib  treatment  maintained  patients’  health-related  quality  of  life  (data  not 
shown). 
•  Secondary PFS  
Median  secondary  PFS  for  the  placebo  arm  (56  patients  who  crossed  over  to  regorafenib)  and  the 
regorafenib arm (41 patients who continued on regorafenib) was 151 days and 137 days, respectively.  
Figure 5. PFS during treatment with regorafenib, Kaplan-Meier (FAS) 
•  Biomarkers 
Genetic biomarker analyses for patients with GIST were performed using data collected in the pivotal 
Phase 3 study 14874 (“historical” mutational status at study entry, archival tumor tissue samples and 
prospectively collected plasma samples) and in the Phase 2 study 14935.  
Non-genetic  biomarker  analysis  for  patients  with  GIST  was  performed  using  data  collected  in  the 
pivotal Phase 3 study 14874 (prospectively collected plasma samples, focused on quantification of the 
levels of 11 different proteins associated with angiogenesis, hypoxia, or GIST pathogenesis). 
Biomarker analysis 
•  Genetic biomarkers  
The aim of the genetic analysis of the biomarker sub-study was: 1) to determine the mutational status 
of KIT, PDGFRA, BRAF and KRAS and to evaluate potential correlations between biomarker subgroups 
and  clinical  outcome  (PFS);  2)  as  additional  objective,  to  evaluate  the  degree  of  concordance  among 
mutational  results  obtained  by  two  different  techniques  BEAMing  using  DNA  obtained  from  fresh 
plasma samples and Sanger sequencing using archival tumor tissue specimens. 
Biomarker specimen sampling frequencies and mutational frequencies  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 31/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By BEAMing assay: (163 patients evaluated) 
1)  A KIT mutation  was detected in 58% of the plasma DNA samples analysed, of which: primary KIT-
Exon  9  mutations  in  15%  of  the  samples  and  KIT-Exon  11  mutations  in  12%  of  the  samples; 
secondary KIT mutations were detected in 47% of the samples. 
-Half  of  the  samples  in  which  a  primary  KIT-Exon  9  alteration  was  identified  also  harboured  a 
secondary  KIT  mutation,  and  74%  of  the  samples  in  which  a  primary  KIT-Exon  11  alteration  was 
identified also harboured a secondary KIT mutation. 
-A primary KIT mutation was not identified in 66% of the samples in which  a presumptive secondary 
KIT mutation was detected.  
2)  PDGFRA alterations were detected in 1% of the plasma DNA samples analyzed and BRAF mutations 
were detected in 0 of the samples.  
By sequencing of archival tissue specimens (111 patients of whom 102 acceptable): 
1) A KIT mutation was detected in 66% of the tissue DNA samples analyzed. 
-Primary KIT-Exon 9 mutations were detected in 18% of the samples, and KIT-Exon 11 alterations in 
43%  of  the  samples;  secondary  KIT  mutations  were  detected  in  12%  of  the  samples.  Concordance 
between KIT mutations at exon 9 and 11 detected by both BEAMing in plasma DNA and sequencing in 
archival tumor tissue was 89% for KIT Exon 9 mutations and 79% for KIT exon 11 mutations.  
2)  PDGFRA  mutations  were  detected  in  3%  of  the  tumor  tissue  DNA  samples  analyzed  and  BRAF 
mutations were detected in 0% of the samples. Activating KRAS mutations were detected in 2% of the 
samples.  
The results showed that primary KIT mutations in exon 9 were reported at a similar percentage in the 
two different analysed compartments by the two techniques whereas those reported at exon 11 were 
detected  in  a  different  percentage  of  analyzed  samples  (12%  plasma  and  43%  tumor  tissue, 
respectively).The low number of exon 11 mutations detected by BEAMing technology most likely is due 
to the lack of the mutant specific primers to all reported exon 11 primary alterations, reflecting one of 
the  potential  limitations  of  plasma  DNA  analysis  by  BEAMing  assay.  Secondary  KIT  mutations,  which 
have been associated with the development of resistance to TKI therapy, were more readily detected 
using BEAMing technology (47%) compared with tumor tissue sequencing (12%). In this case, a good 
coverage  of  secondary  KIT  mutations  was  predetermined  in  light  of  the  need  to  detect  potential 
secondary resistance mutations following previous TKIs treatments.  
Correlation between mutational status and clinical outcome  
PFS  values  were  obtained  from  both  primary  PFS  from  central  assessment  and  that  determined  by 
GRID  study  investigators.  Secondary  PFS  values  were  not  used  for  biomarker-related  correlative 
analyses. 
Biomarkers and potential predictive value: the subgroup of GRID patients for whom mutational status 
was  evaluated  on  plasma  DNA    was  representative  of  the  overall  GRID  population.  The  analysed 
biomarker subgroups were not predictive of clinical benefit in terms of PFS.   
On the contrary, the population of GRID patients for whom tumour tissue mutation data was obtained 
is not highly representative of the overall GRID study population. Results regarding other biomarkers 
subgroup did not identified a potential predictive biomarker.  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 32/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biomarkers and prognostic effects:  this evaluation has been conducted in a small number of patients. 
The presence of a secondary KIT mutation appears to be prognostic for poor outcome (comparison of 
patients with a secondary KIT mutation to those without showed a HR of 1.82 when PFS values were 
assessed  from  central  assessment  and  a  HR  of  2.58  using  PFS  values  from  GRID  investigator 
assessment).  Thus,  a  potential  negative  prognostic  effect  seems  to  be  related  to  the  presence  of  a 
secondary  KIT  mutation.  However,  the  analysis  was  conducted  in  a  limited  number  of  samples  and 
results should be interpreted cautiously and further validated. 
Overall  the  results  of  the  genetic  sub-study  showed  that  the  mutational  status,  either  primary  or 
secondary, did not influence PFS.  
Non genetic biomarkers GRID sub-study 
The  aim  of  the  biomarker  non  genetic  sub-study  of  GRID  (61%  of  enrolled  patients)  was  to  evaluate 
the levels of 11 different proteins at baseline and Cycle 2-Day 15 on plasma samples and to evaluate 
potential correlations between protein levels and clinical outcome (PFS). 
The  proteins  evaluated  included  those  associated  with  angiogenesis  (IGFBP-2,  IL-6,  IL-8,  VEGF-A, 
VEGF-C) or hypoxia (CA9), as well others associated with GIST pathogenesis (KIT, L1-CAM, M-CSF, MK, 
SCF). The evaluation was performed using multiplex immunoassay or ELISA.  
Ancillary analyses 
PFS unstratified: median PFS was 4.8 months in the regorafenib arm and 0.9 months in the placebo 
arm (HR 0.255, 95% CI 0.177-0.368).  
PFS per local investigator’s assessment (stratified): By comparison of the central vs investigator 
assessment more assessments of progression were made in central assessment than in the 
investigator’s assessment. In the placebo group, the investigators’ assessment indicated 75.8% of 
patients with progression, compared to 93.9%, central assessment. In the regorafenib group, the 
investigators’ assessment indicated 33.1% of patients with progression, compared to 57.1%, central 
assessment, up to the database cut-off date. The discordance in the placebo arm was 18.2%, caused 
by 12 progressions seen in central reading and not in investigator reading. The discordance in the 
regorafenib arm was 31.6%, caused by 37 progressions seen in central reading and not in investigator 
reading (27.8%) and 5 progressions seen in investigator reading and not in central reading (3.8%). 
Summary of main study 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 10.  Summary of Efficacy for trial 14874 
Title: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase III study of regorafenib plus best 
supportive care versus placebo plus best supportive care for subjects with metastatic and/or 
unresectable gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) whose disease has progressed despite prior 
treatments with at least imatinib and sunitinib 
Study identifier 
2009-017957-37, GRID, 14874 
Design 
Multicenter, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 33/62 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of main phase: 
Until disease progression or serious potential 
adverse reaction or pregnancy or second 
malignancy or treatment interruption longer 
than 28 consecutive days or more than two 
consecutive dose reduction or clinically 
significant drug-related toxicities. 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Regorafenib + BSC 
Regorafenib 160 mg od once daily, for 21 
days every 4 weeks (3 weeks on, 1 week off), 
(N=133 ) 
Placebo + BSC 
Matching placebo od once daily, for 21 days 
every 4 weeks (3 weeks on, 1 week off), 
(N=66 ) 
Endpoints and 
Primary 
Progression-
Time from randomization to radiological 
definitions 
endpoint 
Free Survival 
progression or death whichever occurs first  
(PFS) 
Secondary 
Overall 
Time from randomization to death due to any 
endpoint 
Survival (OS) 
cause  
Secondary 
Time to 
Time from randomization until the date of 
endpoint 
progression 
radiological progression. 
(TTP) 
Secondary 
Response rate  
Proportion of patients with the best overall 
endpoint 
(RR)  
tumor response of partial response (PR) or 
complete response (CR) according to modified 
RECIST criteria (v. 1.1) that was achieved 
during treatment or within 30 days after 
termination of study medication. 
Database lock 
26 January 2012  
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Full Analysis Set 
and time point 
description 
PFS (median, days)  
95% CI 
26 January 2012 (144 events) 
Treatment group 
Placebo +BSC 
Regorafenib +BSC 
Number of subjects 
PFS (median, days)  
95% CI 
OS 
(median; days) 
95% CI 
66 
28 
(28, 32) 
NE 
(NE, NE) 
133 
147 
(122, 173) 
NE 
(NE, NE) 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 34/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TTP 
(median; days) 
95% CI 
RR (%) 
95% CI 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
(PFS) 
Secondary endpoint: 
(OS) 
Secondary endpoint: 
(TTP) 
Secondary endpoint: 
(RR) 
28 
(28,34) 
1.5 % 
165 
(125,174) 
4. 5% 
(0.0 %, 8.2%)  
(1.7%, 9.6 %) 
Comparison groups 
Regorafenib  vs placebo 
HR from stratified 
proportional hazards 
model 
95% CI 
Stratified log-rank P-
value 
Comparison groups 
HR from stratified 
proportional hazards 
model 
95% CI 
Stratified log-rank P-
value 
Comparison groups 
HR from stratified 
Cox Regression  
model 
95% CI 
Stratified log-rank P-
value 
Comparison groups 
0.268 
(0.185, 0.388) 
<0.000001 
Regorafenib  vs placebo 
0.772 
(0.423, 1.408) 
0.199 
Regorafenib  vs placebo 
0.248 
(0.170, 0.364) 
< 0.000001 
Regorafenib  vs placebo 
Difference in 
proportions 
95% CI  
- 2.99 % 
(-7.70%, 1.72) 
P-value  
0.1412097 
Notes 
Stratification factors for the primary analysis : 3rd versus 4th line therapy or 
beyond and geographical region (Asia versus rest of the world) 
Analysis description  Final Analysis 
Analysis population 
Full Analysis Set  
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
31 January 2014 
Treatment group 
Placebo +BSC 
Regorafenib +BSC 
Number of subjects 
OS (median, in days) 
66 
529 
133 
529 
95% CI 
454–614 
373–640  
Effect estimate per 
Overall Survival 
Comparison groups 
Regorafenib  vs 
comparison 
HR 
95% CI 
placebo 
0.85 
(0.597, 1.206) 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 35/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stratified log-rank p-
0.180 
value 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The results of the pivotal phase III study 14874 and the supportive phase II 14935 study are provided 
by individual study without data pooling due to the different designs and settings of the trials. 
Table 11. Summary of Efficacy from clinical trials performed with regorafenib and 
supporting this submission for type II variation extension of indication in GIST  
14874 (GRID) 
14935 
Regorafenib 
Placebo 
Regorafenib 
Pts enrolled, n 
133 
PFS (IRC) 
Median (days) 
147 
66 
28 
34 
NA 
HR 0.268 (95% CI 0.185-0.388) p<0.000001 
PFS (INV) 
Median (days) 
224 
52 
150 
HR 0.221 (95% CI 0.141-0.345) p<0.000001 
OS (cut off 26 Jan 2012) 
Median  
NA 
NA 
NA 
HR 0.772 (95% CI 0.423-1.408) =0.198896 
OS (cut off 31 Jan 2014) 
Median  (months) 
17.4 
17.4 
NA 
HR 0.85 (95% CI 0.597-1.206) p=0.180 
ORR 
CR 
PR 
SD 
DCR 
0 
0 
0 
6 (4.5%) 
1 (1.5%) 
4 (12%) 
64 (48.1%) 
5 (7.6%) 
22 (67%) + 4 (12%) 
70 (52.6%) 
6 (9.1%) 
30 (88%) 
Clinical studies in special populations 
N/A 
Supportive study 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 36/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 14935 
Study 14935 was a multi-center, open-label, non-randomized, single-arm, study designed to evaluate 
efficacy and safety of regorafenib in patients with metastatic and/or unresectable GIST resistant or 
intolerant to at least imatinib and sunitinib. Primary endpoint was clinical benefit rate (CBR) defined s 
objective response (CR, PR, or SD ≥16 weeks) based on investigator assessment using RECIST version 
1.1. Secondary endpoints were ORR, PFS, OS and safety. 
Of 34 patients enrolled, 33 received at least one dose of regorafenib. Patients were treated on an 
intermittent dosing schedule (3 weeks on/1 week off) with 160 mg regorafenib per day administered 
orally. As of 28 July 2011 after a median follow-up of 10.9 months a median of 8 cycles per patient 
(range 2 to 17 cycles) were administered. Twenty-one (64%) patients were still on treatment and 12 
(36%) had discontinued. The most common reason for discontinuation was PD (6, 18%). Other 
reasons for discontinuation included investigator’s decision (3 patients, 9%), unrelated intercurrent 
illness (1 patient, 3%), patient’s decision (1 patient, 3%), and investigator’s decision after an adverse 
event (AE) (1 patient, 3%). 
Clinical benefit was documented in 26 (79%) patients (95% CI: 61%, 91%), including 4 (12%) cases 
of PR and 22 (67%) cases of SD ≥16 weeks. Of the remaining patients, 4 (12%) had SD ≤16 weeks, 2 
(6%) had PD at the first tumour evaluation, and 1 (3%) was not evaluated because of early 
withdrawal. The median PFS was 10.0 months (95% CI, 8.3, 14.9 months). Six (18%) patients died. 
Of these, 5 (15%) patients died due to PD and 1 (3%) patient died due to an unrelated intercurrent 
illness. Median OS could not be evaluated due to the low number of events. 
Based on historical biomarker data, 19 patients had a KIT exon 11 mutation, 3 patients had a KIT exon 
9 mutation and 8 patients had no KIT or PDGFRαmutation. In one patient a BRAF exon 15 mutation 
was observed. 
The trial showed that Kit keeps a central role in the clonal evolution of GIST, even after prolonged 
inhibition with approved agents, imatinib and sunitinib. The detection of activating mutation in the loop 
in four patients for whom matching biopsies were available shows at least two key points: 1) GIST 
growth and survival is still mediated by the oncogenic driver KIT even after sustained inhibition with 
imatinib and sunitinib, 2) the main inhibitory activity of regorafenib in GIST is possibly on Kit, despite 
the potential multikinase inhibitory effect. Only for descriptive purpose the only patient with BRAF exon 
15 mutation progressed rapidly on regorafenib. 
Literature Review 
The  results  of  the  median  OS  observed  in  other  studies  published  in  the  literature  which  were 
performed  in  GIST  patients  after  failure  of  at  least  imatinib  and  sunitinib  are  presented  in  the  below 
table. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 37/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12. Overall survival in GIST patients after treatment with imatinib and sunitinib 
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The proposed regorafenib dose regimen is 160 mg OD administered according to a 3 weeks on/one 
week off schema, in line with the already approved posology in patients with metastatic colorectal 
cancer.  
The two arms design of the pivotal study with placebo plus BSC as comparator is considered 
acceptable, as patients enrolled in the trial had received all the standard treatment options currently 
available. Although it is known that continuous kinase suppression is of utmost importance for the 
control of tumor growth in GIST and that re-challenging a drug to which the disease has been already 
exposed may be better than BSC, the benefit is expected to be marginal. The RIGHT (Rechallenge of 
imatinib in GIST having no effective treatment) trial, is an academically initiated phase III placebo 
controlled study that has been recently published (Kang et al, Lancet Oncol, 2013). The trial randomly 
allocated patients that exhausted available option of treatment to receive imatinib or placebo. The 
primary endpoint PFS favoured the resumption of imatinib compared to BSC, even though the absolute 
advantage benefit is limited. After a median follow-up of 5.2 months, median PFS was 1.8 months 
(95% CI 1.7—3.6) with imatinib compared with 0.9 months (0.9—1.7) with placebo (hazard ratio for 
progression or death 0.46, 95% CI 0.27—0.78; p=0.005).  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 38/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographic and baseline characteristics appeared to be comparable between the two study arms.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The results of the final PFS analysis showed a statistically significant improvement in PFS (centrally 
assessed) for regorafenib compared with placebo (HR 0.268, 95% CI 0.185-0.388, p<0.000001), with 
a gain in median PFS of 119 days in favour of regorafenib. The effect on PFS was observed in most 
subgroups of the population. The robustness of the PFS effect is supported by several sensitivity 
analyses, the results of which are in line with the primary analysis.  
Regarding the secondary endpoints, no significant difference was observed between regorafenib and 
placebo in terms of OS. According to the updated analysis, no significant difference between the two 
study arms was observed: median OS was 17.4 months in both arms (HR 0.85, 95% CI 0.597-1.206, 
p=0.180). The treatment comparison is biased by the large cross-over (84.8%). The observed median 
OS (17.4 months) in the pivotal study was long compared to other studies published in the literature 
performed in GIST patients after failure of at least imatinib and sunitinib, where median OS less than 
12 months is usually reported.  
No difference in ORR is observed between the two treatment arms. Results of exploratory endpoints 
suggest no remarkable difference between the two study arms regarding Quality of life.  
No substantial difference in terms of activity and/or toxicity of regorafenib appears to emerge from the 
comparison of the different subgroups identified by biomarkers. However, the limited sample size and 
the retrospective nature of the analyses do not allow to drawn any firm conclusion over this relevant 
issue. The CHMP requested the MAH to evaluate further biomarkers when performing future studies 
with regorafenib in GIST patients. The MAH has committed to provide post-approval additional 
biomarker analyses employing the samples available. The MAH will submit the results of the additional 
analyses performed as soon as available (expected 1Q 2015). The RMP has been updated to reflect 
this. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The results of the pivotal 14874 trial and the supportive 14935 study are considered of clinical 
relevance. The statistically significant and clinically relevant improvement in PFS together with the OS 
results/analyses support a clinical benefit associated with regorafenib treatment in the target 
population.   
2.5.  Clinical safety 
2.5.1.  Introduction 
Clinical safety of regorafenib was based on relevant safety data derived from the phase 1, 2 and 3 
clinical studies.  
As of February 2013, more than 3500 patients have been treated with regorafenib in clinical trials, 
primarily as a single agent but also in combination with different types of chemotherapy. Additionally, 
more than 500 patients have been treated in Managed Access Programs (MAPs), Expanded Access 
Programs (EAPs) and Compassionate Use Programs (CUPs) as of this date. 
The main safety analyses are based on pooled data from completed (i.e. final or interim databases 
available) company-sponsored monotherapy trials in patients with cancer and by-study descriptions of 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 39/62 
 
 
 
 
 
the Phase 1 studies with cancer patients not included in the pooled analyses, regorafenib combination 
trials in cancer patients and phase 1 studies in healthy volunteers. 
Patient exposure 
In analogy with the initial MAA three data pools were constructed from the clinical studies of 
regorafenib in cancer patients: 
Pool 1 consists of the safety data of all cancer patients treated with regorafenib monotherapy in 
company-sponsored trials from Phase 1 to 3 (13172, 14996, 11726, 14596, 12434, 14814, 11651, 
11650, 14387, and 14874, including safety data from the open-label treatment period of study 
14874). 
Pool 2 consists of placebo-controlled safety data from the double-blind period of the pivotal Phase 3 
study 14874 in patients with GIST. 
Pool 3 consists of the placebo-controlled safety data from the pivotal Phase 3 trials in patients with 
GIST (14874) and patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (14387). 
The overall extent of exposure in all these pools is summarised in the following table. 
Table 13. Extent of exposure to treatment with regorafenib 
The safety population exposed to regorafenib in the Phase 1 to 3 clinical studies (in Pools 1 to3) 
included patients with a wide range of weight (median body mass index approximately 24.8 
kg/m2 ranging from 14.4–55.1 kg/m2). 36- 40% of patients were women.  
The mean age of patients exposed to regorafenib was 58.2 to 60.2 (median 60-61) years (range 18–86 
years) with a sufficient number of elderly patients (32–37% were aged ≥65). With respect to race, the 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 40/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patient population treated with regorafenib was predominantly White (68-76%), followed by Asian 
(17–26%) and Black (0–1.2%). 
Baseline characteristics of patients with GIST were balanced between those regorafenib versus 
placebo. This regarded gender, race as well as age, age groups and BMI. Patients treated for the 
indication mCRC (pool 3) were older than those treated for GIST (pool 2). 
Adverse events 
The AE data presented in the MAA refer to treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs). Numbers of patients in 
the three pools are provided in table 14. 
Table 14.  Overview of treatment-emergent adverse events 
In the designated pool 2 (the Phase 3 study in GIST patients) the most common TEAE in the 
regorafenib group was hand foot skin reaction (HFSR) (65.9% in the regorafenib group vs. 15.2% in 
the placebo group).  
Also hypertension (59.1% vs. 27.3%), diarrhoea (46.2% vs. 9.1%), dysphonia (37.9% vs. 9.1%) and 
fatigue (37.1% vs. 28.8%) were observed as well as decreased appetite (31.1% vs. 21.2%), 
constipation (28.0% vs. 22.7%), rash (25.8% vs. 3.0%) and alopecia (24.2% vs. 1.5%). 
In pool 3 (Phase 3 studies in GIST and CRC patients), the most common TEAEs in the regorafenib 
group were HFSR (regorafenib group 49.5% vs. 8.8% in the placebo group), diarrhoea (43.7% vs. 
15.4%), decreased appetite (43.5% vs. 27.0%), fatigue (39.6% vs. 29.2%), hypertension (36.4% vs. 
11.9%), and dysphonia (31.8% vs. 6.9%). 
Overall, the incidence and pattern of the most common AEs are similar across all 3 pools analysed and 
these AE are considered in resemblance with the incidence of other drugs in this class (Table 15).  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 41/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15. Most common (>10% overall in any treatment group) treatment-emergent 
adverse events by MedDRA 
Hypertension and HFSR were observed at a higher incidence in pool 2 when compared to other pools. 
It was noted that these incidences were also double in frequency in the placebo group of pool 2 
(27.3% and 15.2% respectively) than was noted in pool 3 (8.8% and 11.9% respectively).  
Although there was a notably higher incidence of infections (based on System Organ Class, SOC data) 
in regorafenib-treated patients than patients in placebo arm, none of the respective preferred terms 
(PTs) included in this SOC was observed in more than 10% of regorafenib-treated patients. 
The incidences of CTC grade 3 AEs were similar in the regorafenib-treated patients across pools 
(64.4% in pool 2, 57.8% in pool 3, and 57.5% in pool 1).  
The pattern of the most common grade 3 AEs was also similar between the pools among regorafenib 
treated patients. HFSR, hypertension and diarrhoea as this was noted among the most commonly 
reported events.  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 42/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In pool 2, the higher incidence of grade 3 AEs in regorafenib treated patients (64.4%) compared to 
placebo treated patients (25.8%) was mainly accounted for by hypertension (27.3% in the regorafenib 
group vs. 4.5% in the placebo group), HFSR (22.0% vs. 1.5%), diarrhoea (7.6% vs. 0%) and rash 
(5.3% vs. 0%). 
There were no major differences in the incidence of grade 4 AEs in regorafenib treated patients 
between the pools (6.8% in Pool 2; 8.2% in pool 3; 9.0% in pool 1). The incidence of grade 4 AEs in 
placebo treated patients was 6.1% in Pool 2, and 7.5% in pool 3.  
The vast majority of grade 4 AEs by MedDRA in all pools occurred in single patients.  
In pool 2, the most common grade 4 AE in regorafenib treated patients was pulmonary embolism. It 
was reported for 2 patients (1.5%) in the regorafenib group and none in the placebo group.  
In pool 1, grade 4 pulmonary embolism occurred in 8 (0.7%) patients, and in pool 3 in 6 (0.9%) 
patients in the regorafenib group and in 1 (0.3%) in the placebo group. Increased lipase was the most 
common grade 4 AE in regorafenib-treated patients in pools 1 and 3: 9 (0.8%) and 7 (1.1%) patients, 
respectively. 
Adverse Events of special interest 
AEs of special interest include cardiac safety, renal safety, hepatobiliary events, haemorrhage, skin AE, 
vascular safety, GE safety, infection and wound healing. 
Cardiac safety 
There is overall a small increase in cardiac ischemic events in patients treated with regorafenib as 
compared to patients in placebo arms.  
No difference between regorafenib-treated patients and patients in placebo arms was observed for 
congestive heart failure neither for patients with baseline risk factors or for patients without such risk 
factors at baseline. Events were more commonly reported in patients with baseline risk factors in both 
treatment groups.  
The incidence of cardiac arrhythmia (SMQ) was slightly higher in patients treated with regorafenib as 
compared to patients in placebo groups, but in general the incidence was low, and there appeared no 
difference between the groups with regard to QTc prolongation.  
Patients with baseline risk factors had a higher incidence in both treatment groups. However, there is 
no clear pattern with respect to reported cardiac arrhythmia events in regorafenib treated patients. 
One cardiac arrhythmia event of grade 4 and none of grade 5 have been reported. The effects of 
regorafenib at the time of maximum concentration on the QTc intervals of the ECG were minimal. Even 
the most conservative evaluation, the median maximum change, was modest and unlikely to be of 
clinical significance in the setting of cancer treatment.  
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was assessed by MUGA (multi gated acquisition) scan at 
baseline and at least once under ongoing regorafenib treatment, typically after a minimum 2 cycles of 
regorafenib treatment. The differences in LVEF observed between baseline and regorafenib treatment 
are small, statistically not significant and clinically not relevant, suggesting that regorafenib does not 
have a negative impact on cardiac contractility.  
Renal safety 
The overall incidence of proteinuria was increased in patients treated with regorafenib as compared to 
patients in placebo arms. Proteinuria was mostly of grade 1–2, with a low frequency of grade 3 events. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 43/62 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with cardiovascular risk factors (diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidaemia) did not show an 
increased risk of renal toxicity.  In pool 3, the incidence of renal failure events (including acute renal 
failure) was 2.5% in the regorafenib group and 1.9% in the placebo group. There was no detrimental 
effect of regorafenib on estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), also after analysing subgroups.  
No imbalance in creatinine value increase between patients treated with regorafenib and patients in 
placebo arms were observed in pools 2 (GIST) and 3 (GIST and mCRC). 
Assessment according to Risk Injury Failure criteria showed no increased risk for patients treated with 
regorafenib as compared to patients in placebo arm in pools 2 and 3, neither overall nor for subgroups 
that were analysed.  
Hepatic events 
Hepatotoxicity has been identified as an important ADR in regorafenib clinical trials.  
There is a treatment effect of regorafenib leading to an increase in AST / ALT, mostly grade 1–2. 
Bilirubin increase also occurs, and this can be partly explained by impaired glucuronidation through 
UGT1A1 inhibition. In pool 2, hepatic failure/injury events were observed in patients also without liver 
metastases in both treatment groups. General systematic medical review identified 4 cases of severe 
drug-induced liver injury (DILI). All 4 cases were considered drug related.  Given an overall number of 
over 3500 patients exposed to regorafenib in interventional studies, this number corresponds to an 
incidence of severe DILI of approximately 0.11% (as of 28 FEB 2013).  
Data seem to strongly indicate that regorafenib-induced liver dysfunction predominantly occurs during 
the first 2 months of treatment. Recovery was observed following drug interruption or discontinuation 
in most of the cases of significant transaminases elevations and in cases with mild to moderate liver 
dysfunction suspected to be regorafenib-related. Remedial treatments in 3 out of 4 cases of severe 
DILI did not prevent further deterioration. 
Haemorrhage 
In the two phase III trials in patients with GIST and mCRC the overall incidence of 
haemorrhage/bleeding events was 19.3%. Most cases of bleeding events in patients treated with 
regorafenib were mild to moderate in severity (Grades 1 and 2: 16.9%). 
This AE did not lead to drug discontinuation in the vast majority of patients.  
Skin and subcutaneous disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous AEs were common in patients treated with regorafenib, especially HFSR and 
rash. In pool 2 the incidence of AEs of HFSR was 65.9% in the regorafenib group and 15.2% in the 
placebo group. The incidence of AEs of HFSR overall was 49.7% in pool 1, 49.5% in the regorafenib 
group in pool 2, and 8.8% in the placebo group in pool 3.  
Vascular safety 
Hypertension is common among patients treated with regorafenib: the majority of hypertension occurs 
during the first two cycles of treatment. Hypertension had a high incidence in all treatment groups 
across pool 2. In pool 2 the incidence in the regorafenib group was 59.1%, compared to 36.1% in Pool 
1 and 36.4% in pool 3. In the placebo group the incidence was 27.3% in Pool 2 and 11.9% in pool 3. 
Hypertension (overall incidence in pools 1 and 3) is more common in Asians; however, the incidence of 
grade 3 hypertension in Asians is similar to that in Caucasians. The incidence of hypertension is similar 
irrespective of baseline history of hypertension, except for grade 3 which is more common in those 
with pre-existing history of hypertension. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 44/62 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, there was no indication of a venous thromboembolism signal, as the event rates were low and 
similar between regorafenib and placebo in pool 2 and pool 3. For arterial thromboembolism, the only 
signal seen was for myocardial ischaemia/infarction. For cerebrovascular or other arterial thrombosis 
events, no increased incidence was observed in regorafenib-treated patients. 
Neurological disorders 
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS): One case has been reported in the Phase 
3 GIST trial (14874), and it was considered to provide sufficient evidence for a causal link. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoea and mucositis (primarily mucosal inflammation and stomatitis) are the most common 
gastrointestinal disorders, and the majority of cases are mild to moderate severity. 
Serious gastrointestinal events are mostly reflective of the underlying disease. The data are suggestive 
of a possible increase in the risk of GI perforation/fistula in regorafenib-treated patients.  
Infections 
The data showed an increased risk of infection in regorafenib-treated patients. In the two phase III 
trials in patients with GIST or mCRC infections were more often observed in patients treated with 
regorafenib as compared to patients receiving placebo (all grades: 31.0% vs. 14.4%).  
Most infections were mild to moderate in severity (Grades 1 and 2: 22.9%) and included urinary tract 
infections (6.8%) as well as mucocutaneous and systemic fungal infections (2.4%). There is no 
increased risk of clinically severe infection events with regorafenib treatment. 
Wound healing 
Data from the safety database including more than 3500 cancer patients treated with regorafenib in 
clinical trials did not provide any conclusive evidence for an increased risk of impaired wound healing 
following regorafenib treatment. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) 
The total incidence of SAEs in pool 2 was 28.8% in the regorafenib group and 21.2% in the placebo 
group. In the regorafenib group in pool 1 the incidence of SAEs was 45.3% and in pool 3 regorafenib 
group 40.7% and placebo group 35.7%. 
The most commonly reported SAE in both treatment groups in pool 2 was abdominal pain (3.8% in the 
regorafenib group and 4.5% in the placebo group).  
In pool 1 the most commonly reported SAE was general physical health deterioration (4.1%), this was 
also the most commonly reported SAE in both the regorafenib group (6.0%) and the placebo group 
(7.8%) in pool 3. 
The incidence of drug-related SAEs in pool 2 was 8.3% in the regorafenib group and 3.0% in the 
placebo group.  
In the regorafenib group, the most common drug-related SAEs were dehydration and diarrhoea, each 
reported in 1.5% of patients. All other drug-related SAEs were only reported in individual patients in 
both treatment groups.  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 45/62 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of drug-related SAEs in pool 1 was 14.2%. The most commonly reported drug related 
SAEs in pool 1 were diarrhoea (1.3%), fatigue (0.9%), hypertension, dehydration and pyrexia (each 
reported in 0.7%). 
The most commonly reported drug-related SAEs in the regorafenib group in pool 3 were diarrhoea 
(1.4%) and pyrexia (0.8%). In the placebo group in pool 3, drug-related SAEs were only reported in 
individual patients (0.3%) 
Table 16.  Serious adverse events in ≥1% of patients in any treatment group by MedDRA 
Deaths 
In pool 1 comprising all regorafenib treated patients in company-sponsored studies with an available 
clinical study report (1073 treated patients) including open-label phase for study 14874, there was a 
total of 126 deaths (11.7%) reported during treatment and up to 30 days post permanent treatment 
discontinuation. 
The most commonly reported reason for death in this pool was progressive disease. Otherwise, AE 
associated with progressive disease cased death in 98 patients. One of these patients had additionally 
deep vein thrombosis with fatal outcome, which the investigator reported as related to regorafenib. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 46/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Twelve deaths were reported as due to AEs not associated with clinical disease progression. These 
included bleeding events (5 patients: upper GI haemorrhage [1]; rectal and vaginal haemorrhage [1]; 
pulmonary haemorrhage [1]; and intracranial haemorrhage [1]; thigh hematoma [1]), pneumonia (2 
patients), cardiac arrest (1 patient), intestinal obstruction (1 patient), cerebrovascular accident (1 
patient), sudden death (1 patient), and acute hepatic failure (1 patient).  
Of these 12 deaths, 7 were considered by the investigators as related to regorafenib. 
Four deaths were reported as ‘toxicity due to study treatment’: cardiac arrest (2 patients), pulmonary 
embolism (1 patient) and pneumonia (1 patient). Of these 4 deaths, 3 were considered by the 
investigators as related to regorafenib (the death due to pneumonia was considered unrelated to 
regorafenib). 
Three deaths were reported as due to an unknown cause, however, in 2 of these, renal failure and 
cardiac arrest were additionally reported as events with a fatal outcome. Only one of these 3 deaths 
was considered by the investigator as related to regorafenib. 
For 7 patients, the investigator reported a cause of death “other” in the case report form with the 
following specification: azotaemia and metabolic acidosis (in the same patient), haemoptysis, disease 
progression, worsening of general condition, large bowel perforation, cachexia, and respiratory distress 
syndrome. Of these 7 deaths, 3 were considered by the investigators as related to regorafenib. 
In pool 2 (study 14874, patients with GIST, double-blind phase), 7 patients (5.3%) in the regorafenib 
group and 3 patients (4.5%) in the placebo group died either during treatment or up to 30 days post 
permanent treatment discontinuation.  
Two patients (3.0%) in the placebo group died of progressive disease with the study observation 
phase, and one patient (1.5%) experienced a grade 5 event (asthenia), but the cause of death was 
also reported as progressive disease. In the regorafenib group, 4 patients (3.0%) died of progressive 
disease, 2 patients (1.5%) died of an AE not associated with clinical disease progression (1 due to 
cardiac arrest and 1 due to acute hepatic failure), and 1 patient (0.8%) died of other causes 
(azotaemia and metabolic acidosis). 
Table 17. Overview of deaths during treatment and up to 30 days post permanent treatment 
discontinuation 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 47/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
The treatment-emergent laboratory test abnormalities reported in placebo-controlled phase III trial 
(double-blind phase) in patients with GIST (GRID) are presented in the table below. 
Table 18.  Treatment-emergent laboratory test abnormalities reported in placebo-controlled 
phase III trial (double-blind phase) in patients with GIST (GRID) 
Laboratory parameter,  
(in % of samples 
investigated) 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders   
Haemoglobin decreased 
Platelet count decreased 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Lymphocyte count 
decreased 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Calcium decreased 
Potassium decreased  
Phosphate decreased 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Bilirubin increased  
AST increased 
ALT increased 
Renal and urinary 
disorders  
Proteinuria 
Investigations  
INR increased**  
Lipase increased  
Stivarga plus BSC 
(N=132) 
Placebo plus BSC 
(N=66) 
All 
Grades* 
Grade 
3* 
Grade 
4* 
All 
Grades* 
Grade 
3* 
Grade 
4* 
75.0 
12.9 
15.9 
29.5 
16.7 
20.5 
54.5 
33.3 
58.3 
39.4 
3.0 
0.8 
2.3 
7.6 
1.5 
3.0 
19.7 
3.0 
3.0 
3.8 
38.5 
1.5 
9.3 
14.4 
1.6 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1.5 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
- 
- 
0.8 
72.7 
1.5 
12.1 
24.2 
4.5 
3.0 
3.1 
12.1 
47.0 
39.4 
1.5 
0 
3.0 
3.0 
0 
0 
1.5 
1.5 
3.0 
1.5 
39.0 
1.7 
12.5 
4.6 
4.7 
0 
0 
1.5 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
- 
- 
0 
*   Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 4.0  
**  
-  No Grade 4 denoted in Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 4.0 
International normalized ratio 
Safety in special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Regorafenib is cleared primarily by the liver. In general, no relevant differences in safety issues were 
observed in clinical studies between patients with mild hepatic impairment and normal hepatic 
function. There were few differences seen among subgroups based on hepatic function at baseline, and 
these differences were mostly reflective of events related to the underlying liver pathology. 
Effect on variables related to hepatic function was evaluated in the combined population PK analysis of 
Phase 3 studies 14387 and 14874. Of the evaluated variables (total bilirubin levels at baseline, ALT, 
AST, alkaline phosphatase and hepatic function categories), only the total bilirubin level had shown an 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 48/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
influence on the PK of regorafenib and its metabolites M-2 and M-5. Higher bilirubin level at baseline 
was correlated with increased exposure of parent regorafenib, M-2 and not significantly with M-5.  
The observed effect was not considered clinically relevant in light of the observed high overall 
variability in the exposure of regorafenib, M-2 and M-5.  
Data from the HCC cohort (study 11651) indicated that the exposure of regorafenib and its metabolites 
is comparable in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) and patients with normal 
hepatic function. This is confirmed by multiple dose data from Korean HCC patients (Child-Pugh A) 
receiving 160 mg regorafenib in the intermittent dosing schedule (Study 14596) when comparing 
historically to data in patients with normal hepatic function. Limited data in patients with moderate 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) indicate similar exposure as compared to patients with normal 
hepatic function after a single 100 mg dose of regorafenib (Study 11651).  
The pharmacokinetics of regorafenib has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh C). 
Renal impairment 
Regorafenib is eliminated primarily by the liver, so renal dysfunction per se would not be expected to 
have a direct effect on regorafenib PK. In clinical studies, no relevant differences in safety or efficacy 
were observed between patients with mild or moderate renal impairment and patients with normal 
renal function. 
The steady-state exposure of regorafenib and its metabolites is comparable in patients with mild renal 
impairment and patients with normal renal function (Study 11650). This finding is in line with the 
results of the combined population PK analysis of studies 14387 and 14874. These show no indicating 
of a significant influence of the factor glomerular filtration rate on the PK of regorafenib, M-2 or M-5.  
Limited data from pooled Phase 1 and 2 studies further indicate that the range of exposure in patients 
with moderate renal impairment is comparable to that seen in patients with normal renal function. 
Overall, there was no apparent relationship between regorafenib pharmacokinetics and renal function. 
The pharmacokinetics of regorafenib has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment or 
end-stage renal disease. However, physiology-based pharmacokinetics modelling does not predict any 
relevant change in exposure in these patients (Study 16392). 
Paediatric population 
No studies in paediatric populations have been performed to date with regorafenib, therefore no data 
on safety of regorafenib in paediatric patients are available. 
Age 
In clinical studies, no relevant differences in exposure, safety or efficacy were observed between 
elderly (aged 65 years and above) and younger patients. Of note, HFSR was seen across all pools more 
often in patients below 65 years than in patients of 65 years or older. Across all clinical trials, cardiac 
disorder events (all grades) have been more often (20.5% vs. 10.4%) reported in regorafenib-treated 
patients aged 75 years or older (N=78) as compared to regorafenib-treated patients below 75 years 
(N=995). 
Age did not affect the regorafenib pharmacokinetics over the studied age range of 29 to 85 years. In 
addition, in the combined population PK analysis of studies 14387 and 14874 age had no significant 
influence on the PK of regorafenib, M-2 and M-5. No dose adjustment is necessary in elderly patients. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 49/62 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of regorafenib in patients below 18 years of age have not been established. 
This is mentioned in the Product Information. 
Race 
In the regorafenib treated patients, there was a higher incidence in Asians of HFSR. Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia syndrome was observed in 30 patients of Asian ethnicity (88.2%) whereas 53 
patients (59.6%) were from non-Asian ethnicity.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The incidence of AEs leading to discontinuation of study drug in pool 2 (patients with GIST, study 
14874) was 6.1% (8 patients) in the regorafenib group and 7.6% (5 patients) in the placebo group.  
No TEAE leading to discontinuation from treatment was reported for more than one patient in either 
treatment group. TEAEs leading to discontinuation of study drug for the regorafenib treated patients 
were acute hepatic failure, alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, 
azotaemia, hematemesis, ileus, metastatic pain, pneumonia, posterior reversible encephalopathy 
syndrome and for the placebo group ascites, asthenia, dehydration, gastrointestinal stromal tumour 
and hepatic function abnormal.  
In pool 1, the incidence of AEs leading to discontinuation of study drug was 20.5%. In pool 3 the 
incidence was 11.6% in the placebo group and 15.2% in the regorafenib group.  
General physical health deterioration was the most common AE leading to discontinuation in all 
treatment groups of pool 1 and 3. Its incidence was 1.8% in pool 1, 2.5% in the placebo group in pool 
3, and 2.8% in the regorafenib group in pool 3. Fatigue (1.2% in pool 1 and 0.5% in pool 3) and HFSR 
(1.2% in Pool 1 and 1.1% in Pool 3) were the other TEAEs that led to discontinuation of study drug in ≥
1% of regorafenib-treated patients in pool 1 and pool 3. 
Post marketing experience 
The so far reported SAEs in the post-marketing setting (as of February 28th 2013) are overall in line 
with the known safety profile of regorafenib outlined in current product information. To date, no new 
safety signal for regorafenib has been observed based on the received post-marketing reports. 
2.5.2.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Median  duration  of  the  safety  follow-up  of  patients  was  relatively  short.  An  updated  safety  analysis 
when final overall survival data of the pivotal 14874 study will be available will be provided in order to 
address this safety issue (see RMP). 
The safety profile of regorafenib is considered consistent across studies. The toxicity profile was typical 
for a small molecule that induces inhibition of the VEGFR and other tyrosine kinase-mediated  
pathways:  hypertension, skin (hand-foot syndrome, rash) and gastrointestinal toxicities (diarrhoea, 
mucositis). Hematologic toxicity is comparably limited. 
In the patients treated for GIST (pool 2) remarkably high frequencies of the most common TEAEs with 
regorafenib were observed also in terms of HFSR (65.9% in the regorafenib group versus 15.2% in the 
placebo group) and hypertension (59.1% vs 27.3%). In pool 3 (phase 3 studies in GIST and CRC 
patients), the most common TEAEs in the regorafenib group were also HFSR (49.5% vs 8.8%) and 
hypertension (36.4% vs 11.9%).  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 50/62 
 
 
 
 
 
The most serious adverse drug reactions in patients receiving regorafenib were haemorrhage, severe 
liver injury, and gastrointestinal perforation.  In the two phase III trials on patients with GIST and 
mCRC the overall incidence of haemorrhage events was 19.3%. Haemorrhage does not appear to be 
due to thrombocytopenia or a coagulation disturbance (INR or aPTT increase), hence is more likely to 
be a vascular effect on the endothelium. Risk factors in patients with serious bleeding events treated 
with regorafenib are the same as in the untreated target population (anti-coagulating drugs, presence 
of tumour lesions e.g. primary GI tumours for GI bleeding, lung metastases for pulmonary bleeding). 
Although most cases of bleeding events in patients treated with regorafenib were mild to moderate in 
severity (Grades 1 and 2: 16.9%), this remains a disadvantage however it is an acceptable AE in view 
of the nature of the disease. 
Few cases encountered TEAE drug-induced liver injury (DILI) according to the international DILI 
working group criteria. All 4 were considered drug related. This is reflected in the SmPC. 
Overall, the incidence and pattern of the most common AEs are similar across all 3 pools of patients 
analyzed for toxicity and the pattern was  consistent with the incidence of other drugs in this class.  
Of note, hypertension and HFSR were observed at a higher incidence in pool 2 for regorafenib treated 
patients compared to other pools. It is noted that the incidences were also higher in the placebo group 
of pool 2 than in pool 3. Since the longer exposure (median 22.9 weeks) in patients with GIST versus 
patients with mCRC (10.0 weeks), an explanation can be aggravation of the drug induced toxicity that 
has evolved during the early phase of treatment.  HFSR events are generally mild to moderate in 
severity, easily manageable with dose interruptions and/or dose reductions, and are reversible in 
nature.  
Within the regorafenib safety database on patients treated for GIST one event of hypertensive crisis 
associated with development of reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS or PRES) 
was observed. As this ADR was also observed in the treatment for mCRC the warning on the risk in the 
Product Information is acceptable. Since a main cause for RPLS can be hypertension it is recommended 
to monitor blood pressure and to treat hypertension in accordance with standard medical practice. In 
cases of severe or persistent hypertension despite adequate medical management, treatment should 
be temporarily interrupted and/or the dose reduced at the discretion of the physician. In case of 
hypertensive crisis, treatment should be discontinued. Treatment with certain small molecules is often 
associated with proteinuria. In view of the prognosis of patients with GIST in need for 3rd line 
treatment with regorafenib the hazards to encounter renal failure as an eventual result of proteinuria 
can be considered acceptable (section 4.4 of the SmPC).  
The impact of certain TKIs on the disturbance of haemostatis becomes readily known. Thrombotic 
microangiopathy is included in the RMP as an important potential risk.  
2.5.3.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
The present type II application presents data on the toxicity profile that shows consistency across 
studies.  
Prominent ADR as palmar plantar erythrodysaestesia and hypertension are known for an angiogenic 
and a multi-tyrosine kinase inhibitor. These ADRs were also reported from the treatment with 
regorafenib in patients with mCRC, albeit in particular these ADRs are reported substantially more 
often in patients with GIST. Other ADRs like proteinuria, rash and gastrointestinal toxicities (vomiting, 
diarrhea, mucositis) were also reported frequently, whereas hematologic toxicities were limited.  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 51/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
2.6.1.  PRAC advice 
The CHMP received the following PRAC advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
PRAC Advice 
Based on the PRAC review of the Risk Management Plan version 2.3, the PRAC considers by consensus 
that the risk management system for regorafenib (Stivarga) in the treatment of: 
Unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) who have progressed on or are 
intolerant to prior treatment with imatinib and sunitinib is acceptable. This advice is based on the 
following content of the Risk Management Plan: 
Safety concerns 
The applicant identified the following safety concerns in the RMP: 
 Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
(confirmed by clinical 
data) 
•  Severe drug-induced liver injury (DILI) 
•  Cardiac ischemic events 
•  Hypertension and hypertensive crisis 
•  Hemorrhage 
•  Hand-foot skin reaction (HFSR) 
•  Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
•  Gastroinestinal perforation and fistulae 
•  Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) /Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis (TEN) 
Important potential risks 
(not refuted by clinical 
data or which are of 
unknown significance) 
•  Wound healing complications 
• 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) 
•  Atrial fibrillation 
•  Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
•  Renal failure 
•  Phototoxicity 
•  Thrombotic microangiopathies (TMA) 
Missing information 
•  Safety in severe hepatic impairment 
•  Safety in children 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 52/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 Summary of safety concerns 
•  Safety in patients with a cardiac history 
•  Safety in severe renal impairment 
• 
• 
Interaction with antibiotics 
Interaction with BCRP substrates 
•  Activity in KRAS mutated tumours or other biomarker-
defined tumour subtypes 
•  Long-term safety in GIST patients 
The PRAC agreed to the revised RMP. 
Pharmacovigilance plans 
Table 19.  Ongoing and planned studies in the PhV development plan 
Study/activity 
type, title and 
category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status 
(planned, 
started) 
Final 
protocol 
Version 
2.0, date: 
3 August  
2012 
• To provide 
Stivarga® to subjects 
diagnosed with 
metastatic CRC who 
have failed all 
approved standard 
therapies 
• To assess the safety of 
Stivarga® 
• To assess PFS 
15967 
An open-label 
phase IIIb study of 
regorafenib in 
patients with 
metastatic 
colorectal cancer 
(CRC) who have 
progressed after 
standard therapy. 
Eudra CT No.: 
2011-005836-25 
Category (3) 
Severe DILI 
Cardiac ischemic 
events 
Hypertension and 
hypertensive crisis 
Hemorrhage 
HFSR 
PRES 
GI perforation and 
fistulae 
SJS/TEN 
Wound healing 
complications 
ILD 
Atrial fibrillation 
Phototoxicity 
Renal failure 
Safety in patients 
with a cardiac history 
Atrial fibrillation 
Activity in KRAS 
mutated tumours or 
other biomarker-
defined tumour 
subtypes 
Final 
protocol 
Version 
2.0, date: 
28 Dec 
2012 
15808 
A randomized, 
double-blind, 
placebo-controlled 
phase III study of 
regorafenib plus 
best supportive 
care (BSC) versus 
placebo plus BSC in 
Asian subjects with 
• To provide 
Stivarga® to subjects 
diagnosed with 
metastatic CRC who 
have failed all 
approved standard 
therapies 
• To assess the safety of 
Stivarga® 
• To assess PFS 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Date for 
submission of 
interim or 
final reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
Planned date 
for 
submission of 
interim data  
Not applicable 
Planned date 
for 
submission of 
final data  
March 2015 
Planned date 
for 
submission of 
interim data  
Not applicable 
Planned date 
for 
submission of 
final data 
Page 53/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
type, title and 
category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status 
(planned, 
started) 
metastatic 
colorectal cancer 
(CRC) who have 
progressed after 
standard therapy 
(CONCUR) 
Eudra CT No.: NA 
Category (1) 
15983 
A Randomized, 
Double-blind, 
Placebo-controlled 
Phase-III Study of 
Adjuvant 
Regorafenib Versus 
Placebo for Patients 
with Stage IV 
Colorectal Cancer 
After Curative 
Treatment of Liver 
Metastases 
EudraCT no.: 2012-
004369-42 
Category (1) 
14814 
An open-label, non-
randomized Phase I 
study of 
Regorafenib (BAY 
73-4506) to 
evaluate 
cardiovascular 
safety parameters, 
tolerability, 
pharmacokinetics, 
and anti-tumor 
To further explore 
whether or not KRAS 
mutation status predicts 
regorafenib efficacy 
Activity in KRAS 
mutated tumours or 
other biomarker-
defined tumour 
subtypes 
Final 
Protocol 
Version 1; 
date 08 
August 
2013 
To evaluate the effect of 
regorafenib on 
cardiovascular safety 
parameters, specifically 
QT/QTc intervals and 
LVEF 
Safety in patients 
with a cardiac history 
Final 
protocol 
Version 2; 
date: 4 
August 
2011 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Date for 
submission of 
interim or 
final reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
December 2014 
Planned date 
for submission 
of final data: 
31/12/2020 
Submission of 
results of 
genetic 
(including 
NRAS, KRAS, 
BRAF and 
PIK3CA) and 
non-genetic 
(ANG-2, IL-6, 
IL-8, PlGF, 
VEGFR-1, TIE1, 
VEGF-A, VEGF-
C, VEGF-D, 
VEGF-A-121, 
BMP-7, VWF, 
M-CSF, SDF-1, 
IGFBP2) 
appropriate 
biomarker 
analyses: 
31/12/2020 
In addition an 
annual report 
will be 
submitted 
Planned date 
for 
submission of 
interim data  
Not applicable 
Planned date 
for 
submission of 
final data 
Addendum to 
the CSR 
Page 54/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
type, title and 
category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status 
(planned, 
started) 
Date for 
submission of 
interim or 
final reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
including longer 
term LVEF 
results will be 
generated and 
provided 
approximately 
12 months 
following last 
patient last visit 
or by Dec 
2014, in case 
the last patient 
currently on the 
study continues 
on drug beyond 
December 2013 
Q2/2015 
Interaction with 
anibiotics 
Objectives of the study: 
Comparison of the PK of 
regorafenib in healthy 
volunteers with and 
without concomitant 
antibiotic pre-treatment. 
Final 
protocol 
Version 2; 
date: 20 
Aug 2013 
Compare the PK of the 
selected BCRP substrate 
with and without 
concomitant regorafenib 
Interaction with BCRP 
substrates 
Q4/2015 
Final 
protocol 
Version 2; 
date:17 
Dec 2013 
activity in patients 
with advanced solid 
tumors 
Eudra CT No.: NA 
Category (3) 
16675 
Single-center, 
open-label, non-
randomized, two-
period sequential 
treatment study to 
assess the effect of 
neomycin on the 
pharmacokinetics of 
regorafenib in 
healthy male 
subjects. 
Effect of neomycin 
on the 
pharmacokinetics of 
regorafenib 
Category (3) 
16674 
A Phase I, multi-
center, non-
randomized, open 
label, drug-drug-
interaction study to 
determine the 
effect of multiple 
doses of 
regorafenib (BAY 
73-4506) on the 
pharmacokinetics of 
probe substrates of 
transport proteins 
P-gp (digoxin; 
Group A) and BCRP 
(rosuvastatin; 
Group B) in 
patients with 
advanced solid 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 55/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
type, title and 
category (1-3) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status 
(planned, 
started) 
Activity in other 
biomarker-defined 
tumour subtypes 
Final 
protocol 
Version 
4.0; date:  
27 SEP 
2011 
Date for 
submission of 
interim or 
final reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
Planned date 
for submission 
of 
“Retrospective 
analysis of c-Kit 
Exon 11 status” 
in plasma 
samples and 
IGFBP2 and 
280 known 
Oncogenes 
(Foundation 
Medicine 
FOUNDATION 
ONE panel)  in 
archival tumor 
specimens:  
 Q1 2015 
malignant tumors. 
Category (3) 
14874 
A randomized, 
double-blind, 
placebo-controlled 
phase III study of 
regorafenib plus 
best supportive 
care versus placebo 
plus best 
supportive care for 
subjects with 
metastatic and/or 
unresectable 
gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors 
(GIST) whose 
disease 
has progressed 
despite prior 
treatments with at 
least imatinib and 
sunitinib 
Category (3) 
To retrospectively 
analyze whether c-Kit 
Exon 11 status in plasma 
samples obtained from 
GIST patients at baseline 
within Study 14874 
predicts regorafenib 
efficacy/safety 
To retrospectively 
analyze IGFBP2 using 
immunohistochemistry in 
archival tumor 
specimens from GIST 
patients enrolled in 
Study 14874 
To analyze  280 known 
Oncogenes (Foundation 
Medicine FOUNDATION 
ONE panel, Next 
Generation Sequencing 
approach) in archival 
tumor specimens from 
GIST patients enrolled in 
Study 14874 with 
respect to regorafenib 
efficacy/safety 
Further safety data for 
GIST patients on long-
term treatment with 
Stivarga® will be 
collected in ongoing 
14874 GRID study. 
Missing information: 
Long-term safety 
data in GIST patients 
Planned date 
for submission 
on long-term 
safety data 
from study 
14874: Q2 
2015 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed post-
authorisation PhV development plan is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. 
The PRAC also considered that routine PhV is sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
Important identified risks  
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 56/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
Severe drug-induced liver 
injury (DILI) 
Cardiac ischemic events 
Hypertension and 
hypertensive crisis 
Hemorrhage 
Hand-foot skin reaction 
(HFSR) 
Posterior reversible 
encephalopathy syndrome 
(PRES) 
Gastrointestinal (GI) 
perforation and fistulae 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (SJS)Toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (TEN) 
Important potential risks  
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.2 ‘Dose 
and method of administration’, 
sub-section ‘Dose modification’; 
section 4.4. ‘Warnings and 
precautions for use’ and section 
4.8 ‘Undesirable effects’ 
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.4. 
‘Warnings and precautions for use’ 
and section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ 
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.4. 
‘Warnings and precautions for use’ 
and section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ 
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.4. 
‘Warnings and precautions for use’ 
and section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ 
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.2 ‘Dose 
and method of administration’, 
sub-section ‘Dose modification’; 
section 4.4. ‘Warnings and 
precautions for use’ and section 
4.8 ‘Undesirable effects’ 
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.4. 
‘Warnings and precautions for use’ 
and section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ 
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.4. 
‘ Warnings and precautions for 
use’ and section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.8 
‘Undesirable effects’ 
Not applicable 
Wound healing 
complications 
Labeling: SmPC Section 4.4. 
‘Warnings and precautions for use’ 
Not applicable 
Interstitial lung disease 
(ILD) 
Atrial fibrillation 
None 
None 
Reproductive and 
developmental toxicity 
Labeling: Section 4.6. ‘Fertility, 
pregnancy and lactation’ 
Renal failure 
Phototoxicity 
None 
None 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 57/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
Thrombotic 
microangiopathies (TMA) 
None 
Missing information 
Safety in severe hepatic 
impairment 
Labeling: Section 4.2 (‘Posology 
and method of administration’), 
4.4 (‘Warnings and Precautions’) 
and 5.2 (‘Pharmacokinetic 
Properties’) 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Safety in children 
Labeling: Section 4.2 ‘Posology 
and method of administration’ 
Not applicable 
Safety in patients with a 
cardiac history 
Labeling: Section 4.4 ‘Warnings 
and precautions for use’ 
Not applicable 
Safety in severe renal 
impairment 
Labeling: Section 4.2 ‘Posology 
and method of administration’ 
Not applicable 
Interaction with 
antibiotics 
Interaction with BCRP 
substrates 
Labeling: Section 4.5 
‘Interaction with other 
medicinal products and other 
forms of interaction’ 
Labeling: Section 4.5 
‘Interaction with other 
medicinal products and other 
forms of interaction’ 
Activity in KRAS 
mutated tumours or 
other biomarker-defined 
tumour subtypes 
Labeling: Section 4.4 
‘Warnings and precautions for 
use’, 5.1 ‘Pharmacodynamic 
properties’ 
Long-term safety in 
GIST patients 
None 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed risk 
minimisation measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed indication. 
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
2.7.  Update of the Product information   
As a consequence of this new indication, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.3 of the SmPC have been 
updated. The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Stivarga 40 mg film-coated tablets. The justification for 
not performing neither a full nor a focused user testing is acceptable since the main key elements have 
not changed (including posology instructions) and the same style of language and layout is used.  
The only substantial change affects section “What Stivarga is and what it is used for” and “Possible side 
effects” of the PL; the latter section has changed as follows: “feeling sick (nausea)” and “vomiting” 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 58/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were added as very common side effects, while “hair loss (alopecia)” was moved from common to very 
common side effect; “nail disorder (changes to the nail such as ridges and/or splitting)” was moved 
from common to uncommon side effects. 
These modifications are not expected to alter the ability to understand information and to act upon of 
the user. Moreover, Stivarga is subject to restricted medical prescription by physicians experienced in 
the administration of anticancer therapy, thus the healthcare professional can adequately offer further 
assistance.  
In conclusion, the bridging report submitted by the MAH is acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The  evidence  of  efficacy  of  regorafenib  in  patients  with  GIST  is  based  on  the  results  of  one  pivotal 
phase III study (study 14874), supported by the data of the phase II 14935 study, enrolling patients 
with  unresectable  and/or  metastatic  GIST  who  presented  disease  progression  after  at  least  imatinib 
and sunitinib.  
The results of the final PFS based on 144 events (72.4%) (Cut-off 26 Jan 2012) showed a statistically 
significant  improvement  (centrally  assessed)  for  regorafenib  compared  with  placebo  (HR  0.268,  95% 
CI  0.185-0.388;  p<0.000001),  with  a  gain  in  median  PFS  of  119  days  in  favour  of  regorafenib.  The 
robustness of the PFS effect is supported by several sensitivity analyses, the results of which are in line 
with the primary analysis.  
This  effect  was  further  substantiated  by  results  in  the  secondary  efficacy  endpoints:  Median  time  to 
progression was significantly longer in the regorafenib arm than in the placebo arm (165 days versus 
28  days,  HR  0.248,  p<0.000001).  Disease  control  rate  (CR+PR+SD)  was  significantly  higher  in  the 
regorafenib arm compared with the placebo arm (41% vs 14.9%, respectively). 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
In  the  pivotal  14874  study,  the  collection  of  fresh  biopsies  was  optional,  not  mandatory  and  plasma 
samples  for  genetic  and  non-genetic  biomarkers  were  collected  from  patients  that  consented.  As  a 
result,  no  fresh  samples  are  available  (only  5).  Therefore,  although  no  difference  in  terms  of  activity 
appears to emerge from the comparison of the different subgroups identified by biomarkers, data are 
limited by the small sample size and the retrospective nature of the analyses. The MAH has committed 
to  provide  post-approval  additional  biomolecular  analyses  employing  the  samples  available.  The  MAH 
will submit the results of the additional analyses performed as soon as available (expected 1Q 2015). 
In addition, the MAH has committed to plan adequate biomarker analyses in future studies performed 
with  regorafenib  in  patients  with  GIST.  This  additional  information  to  be  provided  is  included  in  the 
RMP. 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
Overall,  the  safety  profile  of  regorafenib  was  consistent  across  studies  and  was  typical  for  an 
angiogenetic  and  multi-tyrosine  kinase  inhibitor:  hypertension,  skin  (hand-foot  syndrome,  rash)  and 
gastrointestinal  toxicities  (diarrhea,  mucositis)  were  more  common,  whereas  hematologic  toxicities 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 59/62 
 
 
 
 
 
were  less  frequent.  No  new  adverse  reactions  are  reported  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  14874  and  the 
supportive phase II 14935 trial conducted in patients with GIST.  
The  most  serious  adverse  drug  reactions  in  patients  receiving regorafenib  were  haemorrhage,  severe 
liver  injury,  and  gastrointestinal  perforation.    In  the  two  phase  III  trials  on  patients  with  GIST  and 
mCRC  the  overall  incidence  of  haemorrhage  events  was  19.3%.  Although  most  cases  of  bleeding 
events  in  patients  treated  with  regorafenib  were  mild  to  moderate  in  severity  (Grades  1  and  2: 
16.9%),  this  remains  a  disadvantage  however  it  is  an  acceptable  AE  in  view  of  the  nature  of  the 
disease. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
It is noted that median duration of the safety follow-up of patients is relatively short and thus the long 
term  safety  data  are  not available  yet.  An  updated safety  analysis  when  final  overall  survival  data of 
the  pivotal  14874  study  will  be  provided  in  order  to  address  this  safety  issue.  This  additional 
information to be provided is included in the RMP. 
Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Metastatic  and/or  unresectable  GIST,  progressive  after  imatinib  and  sunitinib,  is  a  highly  invalidating 
and  life  threatening  condition  with  an  overall  infaust  prognosis.  Currently  there  are  no  standard  of 
treatment options in the E.U. for this patient population. Therefore, there is an unmet medical need for 
a treatment in such a population. Efficacy of regorafenib for the new proposed indication is based on a 
significant  improvement  in  PFS.  The  observed  HR  for  PFS  favouring  the  treatment  arm  appears 
impressive (0.268), and the gain in median PFS of around 4 months is of clinical relevance.  
The  adverse  events  reported  were  adequately  described  and  were  considered  acceptable.  Fatigue, 
hand-foot  syndrome,  anorexia,  diarrhoea,  weight  loss,  hypertension,  rash,  mucositis,  fever, 
hyperbilirubinemia,  platelet  counts  abnormalities,  haemorrhage  and  infections  were  observed  very 
commonly  in  patients  treated  with  regorafenib,  with  a  significantly  higher  incidence  compared  with 
placebo-treated  patients.  Hypertension  and  hand-foot  syndrome  were  also  observed  at  higher 
frequency in GIST patients when compared with patients with mCRC.  
Benefit-risk balance 
In  view  of  the  poor  prognosis  of  the  metastatic  and/or  unresectable  GIST  population  experiencing 
disease  progression  after  imatinib  and  sunitinib,  the  results  of  the  pivotal  14874  trial  and  the 
supportive  14935  study  are  considered  of  clinical  relevance.  The  statistically  significant  and  clinically 
relevant  improvement  in  PFS  supports  a  clinical  benefit  associated  with  regorafenib  treatment  in  the 
target population.  
The  ADRs  of  regorafenib  are  manageable  and  are  considered  acceptable.  Therefore,  the  benefit-risk 
balance for regorafenib in the target population is positive.  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 60/62 
 
 
 
 
 
Variation accepted 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Extension of indication in the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) who progressed on or are intolerant to prior treatment with 
imatinib and sunitinib. As a consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.3 of the SmPC have 
been updated. The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. The list of local representatives was 
also updated in the package leaflet. 
Additional data exclusivity /market protection 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the data submitted by the MAH, taking into account the provisions of 
Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, and considers that the new therapeutic indication 
brings significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies (see appendix 1). 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 61/62 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
1. Debiec-Rychter M, Sciot R, Le Cesne A, et al. for EORTC Soft Tissue and Bone Sarcoma Group; 
Italian Sarcoma Group; Australasian Gastrointestinal Trials Group. KIT mutations and dose selection 
for imatinib in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours. Eur J Cancer 2006; 42:1093-
103. 
2. Heinrich MC, Corless CL, Demetri GD, Blanke CD, von Mehren M, Joensuu H, McGreevey LS, Chen 
CJ, Van den Abbeele AD, Druker BJ, Kiese B, Eisenberg B, Roberts PJ, Singer S, Fletcher CD, Silberman 
S, Dimitrijevic S, Fletcher JA. Kinase mutations and imatinib response in patients with metastatic 
gastrointestinal stromal tumor. J Clin Oncol. 2003 Dec 1;21(23):4342-9. 
3.  Joensuu H. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST). Ann Oncol 2006;17 Suppl 10:x280-x286. 
4. Mazur MT, Clark HB. Am J Surg Pathol. Gastric stromal tumors. Reappraisal of histogenesis. 1983 
Sep;7(6):507-19. 
5. Van Glabbeke MM, Owzar K, Rankin C, Simes J, Crowley J, for GIST Meta-analysis Group 
(MetaGIST). Comparison of two doses of imatinib for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST): A metaanalysis based on 1,640 patients. J Clin Oncol  2007; 
25:10004. 
CHMP extension of indication variation assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/571871/2014  
Page 62/62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
