EMA/778097/2017  
EMEA/H/C/000250 
EPAR summary for the public 
Stocrin 
efavirenz 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Stocrin. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Stocrin. 
For practical information about using Stocrin, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Stocrin and what is it used for? 
Stocrin is an antiviral medicine that is used together with other antiviral medicines to treat patients 
aged three years or older infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that 
causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
How is Stocrin used? 
Stocrin can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in the management of HIV infection. It is available as capsules, tablets and oral solution 
and must be given in combination with other antiviral medicines. It is recommended that Stocrin be 
taken on an empty stomach and without food, preferably at bedtime. 
The recommended dose of Stocrin for adults is 600 mg once a day. In patients aged 3 to 17 years, the 
dose depends on body weight. For patients who are unable to swallow the capsules or tablets, Stocrin 
can be given using the oral solution. The dose of Stocrin may need to be adjusted in patients taking 
certain other medicines at the same time. 
For full details, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Stocrin work? 
The active substance in Stocrin, efavirenz, is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI). 
It blocks the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV that allows it to reproduce 
itself in the cells it has infected. By blocking this enzyme, Stocrin, taken in combination with other 
antiviral medicines, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Stocrin does 
not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it can hold off damage to the immune system and avoid the 
development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Stocrin have been shown in studies? 
Stocrin has shown benefit in controlling HIV infection in three main studies involving over 1,100 adults. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients with undetectable 
levels of HIV-1 in their blood (viral loads) after 24 or 48 weeks of treatment: 
• 
• 
• 
in the first study, Stocrin in combination with lamivudine and zidovudine or with indinavir (other 
antiviral medicines) was compared with the combination of indinavir, lamivudine and zidovudine. 
67% of the adults treated with Stocrin in combination with zidovudine and lamivudine had viral 
loads below 400 copies/ml after 48 weeks, compared with 54% of the patients treated with Stocrin 
and indinavir, and 45% of the patients treated with indinavir, lamivudine and zidovudine; 
the second study compared Stocrin in combination with nelfinavir and two other antiviral medicines 
with the same combination without Stocrin. The Stocrin combination was more effective than the 
combination without Stocrin: 70% and 30% of the patients, respectively, had viral loads below 500 
copies/ml after 48 weeks; 
the third study compared adding Stocrin or placebo (a dummy treatment) to a combination of 
antiviral medicines that included indinavir and two other antiviral medicines, in patients who had 
already been receiving treatment for HIV infection. More patients receiving Stocrin had viral loads 
below 400 copies/ml than those taking placebo after 24 weeks 
Similar results were seen in a study in 57 children aged between 3 and 16 years, given Stocrin in 
combination with nelfinavir and other antiviral medicines. 
What are the risks associated with Stocrin? 
The most common side effect with Stocrin (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is rash. Stocrin is also 
commonly associated with dizziness, headache, nausea (feeling sick) and tiredness. Taking Stocrin 
with food may lead to an increase in the frequency of side effects. For the full list of side effects 
reported with Stocrin, see the package leaflet. 
Stocrin must not be used in patients with severe liver disease. Stocrin can affect the electrical activity 
of the heart and so must also not be used in patients with heart problems such as changes in heart 
rhythm and activity, slow heart rate or heart failure or other conditions that can affect the heart’s 
electrical activity, or who have close relatives that have died suddenly from a heart condition or were 
born with heart problems. Similarly, it must not be used in patients with altered levels of salts 
(electrolytes) such as potassium or magnesium in their blood. 
Stocrin must be avoided if patients are taking certain medicines because it can increase their side 
effects or reduce their effectiveness, or because the combination may increase effects on the heart. 
See the package leaflet for further details. 
Stocrin  
EMA/778097/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Stocrin approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Stocrin’s benefits are greater than its risks in antiviral 
combination treatment of HIV-infected adults, adolescents, and children three years of age and older 
and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The Agency noted that Stocrin has not been 
studied adequately in patients with advanced disease (CD4 cell counts below 50 cells/mm3) or after 
treatment with protease inhibitors (another type of antiviral medicine) that was not working. It also 
noted that there is little information on the benefits of treatment that includes a protease inhibitor in 
patients who have been treated with Stocrin in the past but which stopped working, although there is 
no evidence to suggest that protease inhibitors may not work in these patients.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Stocrin? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Stocrin have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Stocrin 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Stocrin on 28 May 1999.  
The full EPAR for Stocrin can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Stocrin, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2017. 
Stocrin  
EMA/778097/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
