MK-0831
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 9.1
PAGE 44
EFAVIRENZ
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT
Summary of risk management plan for STOCRIN
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for STOCRIN. The RMP details 
important risks of STOCRIN, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about STOCRIN's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
STOCRIN's EU summary of product characteristics (EU-SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how STOCRIN should be 
used.
This summary of the RMP for STOCRIN should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR)]. 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
efavirenz´s RMP.
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used for
STOCRIN is authorised for use in antiviral combination treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infected adults, adolescents and children 3 years of age 
and older. It contains efavirenz as the active substance and it is given by mouth.
Further information about the evaluation of STOCRIN ’s benefits can be found in 
STOCRIN´s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/Stocrin
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further
Characterise the Risks
Important risks of STOCRIN, together with measures to minimise such risks and the
proposed studies for learning more about STOCRIN 's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
• Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
MK-0831
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 9.1
PAGE 45
EFAVIRENZ
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of STOCRIN are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of STOCRIN. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None 
None 
None 
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
Not applicable. There are no important identified risks, important potential risks, or missing 
information.
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of STOCRIN.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
Not applicable
