26 June 2015 
EMA/386551/2015 
EMA recommends measures to ensure safe and effective 
use of Strensiq 
Colour coding of different presentations and booklet for patients to ensure 
correct use and avoid medication errors  
Several measures have been put in place to ensure the safe and effective use of Strensiq (asfotase 
alfa) and to reduce the risk of medication errors. Strensiq is used for the treatment of a rare inherited 
bone disease called hypophosphatasia. It is given by injection under the skin either six times a week or 
three times a week and will be available in vials of different strengths and volumes. Before Strensiq is 
given the required dose needs to be drawn up into a syringe. As the medicine is for use in growing 
children and the dose depends on the child’s bodyweight, the doctor will need to adjust the dose 
frequently. Medicines such as Strensiq that require frequent dose adjustments and are available in 
different strengths and volumes are more likely to lead to medication errors. These could be due to 
mistakes in calculating the dose and confusion between the different presentations, which could lead to 
over- or under-dosing. The medicine’s carton and label will therefore be colour-coded to better 
distinguish between presentations. In addition, booklets and animated injection guides with detailed 
information on the correct use of the medicine will be available to patients and carers. 
Further information on the measures that have been introduced to ensure the safe use of Strensiq are 
described below. 
Information for patients and carers 
•  Strensiq’s dose depends on bodyweight. As the child grows and gains weight, the dose will need to 
be adjusted.  
• 
• 
• 
To facilitate adjustment, Strensiq is available in different strengths and volumes. 
To help differentiate between them, the carton and the labels on the vials are colour-coded as 
follows: 
80mg/0.8ml 
 Unless your doctor changes your dose, you should always use the same coloured presentation (or 
combination of presentations). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● Unitsed Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
If you give the medicine to yourself or to your child, your doctor will tell you which vial (or 
combination of vials) to use and train you on how to withdraw and inject the correct dose from the 
vial(s). 
You will be given a patient information booklet, which you should read carefully. An animated 
injection guide will also be available. 
If you have any questions about the treatment, speak to your doctor or pharmacist. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
•  Strensiq is available in vials in two strengths and five volumes to meet the different dosing 
requirements: 
−  The 40 mg/ml strength is available in the following volumes: 0.3 ml (containing 12 mg 
asfotase alfa); 0.45 ml (18 mg); 0.7 ml (28 mg) and 1 ml (40 mg); 
−  The 100 mg/ml strength is available in one volume: 0.8 ml (containing 80 mg asfotase alfa). 
• 
To help differentiate between the different presentations, the cartons and the labels on the vials 
will be colour-coded as follows: 
80mg/0.8ml 
•  Always ensure that the prescription includes the dose in miligrams. Prescribing the dose in 
millilitres only may lead to medication errors as two different strengths are available.  
• 
The product information contains a dosing chart that should be used when converting the dose  
into the volume needed to be injected.  
•  Before patients and carers can administer the medicine at home, you need to explain to them how 
many millilitres they need to withdraw from the vial(s), how to withdraw the dose from the vial(s) 
and how to inject it.  
•  A booklet and an animated injection guide will also be available to facilitate the training. 
More about the medicine 
Strensiq is a medicine used to treat patients with hypophosphatasia that started in childhood. 
Hypophosphatasia is a rare inherited disease caused by defects in the gene responsible for producing 
‘alkaline phosphatase (ALP)’, an enzyme that plays a key role in creating and maintaining healthy 
bones, and managing calcium and phosphate in the body. Patients with hypophosphatasia do not have 
enough normal functioning ALP, which leads to weak bones. Asfotase alfa, the active substance of 
Strensiq, is a modified copy of the human enzyme ALP and serves as a replacement for the defective 
enzyme, thereby increasing blood levels of normal functioning ALP. 
More information on Strensiq can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/ 
EMA recommends measures to ensure safe and effective use of Strensiq  
EMA/386551/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
