EMA/716209/2018  
EMEA/H/C/003794 
Strensiq (asfotase alfa) 
An overview of Strensiq and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Strensiq and what is it used for? 
Strensiq is a medicine used long-term to treat patients with hypophosphatasia that started in 
childhood. Hypophosphatasia is a rare inherited disease of the bones which can lead to early loss of 
teeth, malformed bones, frequent bone fractures, and difficulty breathing.  
Strensiq contains the active substance asfotase alfa.  
Hypophosphatasia is rare, and Strensiq was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 3 December 2008. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu308594.  
How is Strensiq used? 
Strensiq can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who is 
experienced in managing metabolic or bone disorders. 
The medicine is available as a solution for injection. It is given by injection under the skin either six 
times a week (in a dose of 1 mg per kilogram bodyweight) or three times a week (in a dose of 2 
mg/kg). As the amount given depends on the patient’s bodyweight, the doctor will need to adjust the 
dose as the patient’s weight changes, particularly in growing children.  
For more information about using Strensiq, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Strensiq work? 
The enzyme ‘tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase’ (ALP) plays a key role in creating and 
maintaining healthy bones, and managing calcium and phosphate in the body. Patients with 
hypophosphatasia cannot make enough working ALP, which leads to weak bones. Asfotase alfa, the 
active substance in Strensiq, is a version of the human ALP enzyme and serves as a replacement, 
thereby increasing levels of working ALP. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Strensiq have been shown in studies? 
Strensiq has been studied in one main study in 13 children between 6 and 12 years of age. Patients 
were given either 2 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg Strensiq three times a week for 24 weeks. The main measure of 
effectiveness of the medicine was the improvement in x-ray appearance of the wrists and knee joints 
before and after treatment with Strensiq. X-rays of children given Strensiq were also compared with 
similar x-rays available from 16 children who had not received Strensiq (‘historical controls’). The 
study also looked at other measures of effectiveness such as growth in height. This study showed that 
children given Strensiq had an improvement in their joint structure as demonstrated by x-rays and 
most of them seemed to gain in height. In the historical controls, most children did not experience 
similar improvements in their joints or gain in height over a comparable period of time. Additional data 
from an extension of this study in children aged 13 to 18 years confirmed the initial results.  
The effectiveness of Strensiq was also generally supported by several additional small studies. Some of 
the studies also looked at the dose of 1 mg/kg Strensiq given six times a week. 
What are the risks associated with Strensiq? 
The most common side effects with Strensiq (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, erythema (reddening of the skin), pain in arms and legs, fever, irritability, injection site 
reactions (such as pain, rash and itching) and contusion (bruising). For the full list of side effects and 
restrictions with Strensiq, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Strensiq authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Strensiq’s benefits are greater than its risks and it be 
authorised for use in the EU.  
The Agency noted that hypophosphatasia is a serious and life-threatening disease for which no 
treatment is authorised. Although the main study was small and did not directly compare Strensiq with 
another treatment or with untreated patients, the Agency considered that the improvement seen in the 
bones and the apparent growth was relevant. Given that hypophosphatasia is an extremely rare 
disease, data in this population will likely remain limited. Regarding safety, injection site reactions and 
other side effects were considered manageable with the recommendations in place. 
Strensiq has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about Strensiq due to the rarity of the disease. Every year, the 
Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Strensiq? 
Since Strensiq has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Strensiq will set up a registry of patients with hypophosphatasia to collect information on the disease 
and on the long-term safety and effectiveness of Strensiq. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Strensiq? 
The company that markets Strensiq will provide patients and carers with educational materials to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly and to minimise the risk of medication errors. This material 
Strensiq (asfotase alfa)  
EMA/716209/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
will include a self-injection guide for patients, as well as an injection guide for parents or caregivers of 
children with the condition.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Strensiq have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Strensiq is continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Strensiq are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Strensiq 
Strensiq received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 28 August 2015. 
Further information on Strensiq can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Strensiq  
This overview was last updated in 10-2018. 
Strensiq (asfotase alfa)  
EMA/716209/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
