EMA/617078/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Strensiq  
International non-proprietary name: asfotase alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003794/II/0047 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status of this report and steps taken for the assessment 
Current 
Description 
Planned date  Actual Date  Need for 
step¹ 
discussion² 
Start of procedure 
17 Aug 2020 
17 Aug 2020 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
21 Sep 2020 
21 Sep 2020 
CHMP members comments 
05 Oct 2020 
02 Oct 2020 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment 
08 Oct 2020 
n/a 
Report 
Opinion 
15 Oct 2020 
15 Oct 2020 
¹Tick the box corresponding to the applicable step – do not delete any of the steps. If not applicable, add 
n/a instead of the date. 
² Criteria for CHMP plenary discussion: substantial disagreement between the Rapporteur and other 
CHMP members and/or at the request of the Rapporteur or the Chair 
Procedure resources 
Rapporteur  
Armando Genazzani 
Declarations 
 The assessor confirms that reference to ongoing assessments or development plans for other products 
is not included in this assessment report, including in the Product Information, if any. 
Whenever the above box is un-ticked please indicate section and page where confidential information is 
located here:  
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 2/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ..................... 4 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 5 
4. Introduction ............................................................................................ 6 
5. Clinical Pharmacology aspects ................................................................. 6 
6. Changes to the Product Information...................................................... 13 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 3/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Alexion Europe SAS submitted to 
the European Medicines Agency on 29 July 2020 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new 
Type II 
I 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Update of section 5.1 of the SmPC in order to remove the Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) compliance 
statement as per Article 28(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, following submission of the results and 
reports  of  all  the  PIP  measures,  including  results  of  the  Extrapolation  Study  AXN100107PIP 
(“Extrapolation of Efficacy to Asfotase Alfa Treatment in Paediatric Patients Ages 6 months to <3 years 
with Juvenile-Onset Hypophosphatasia”). 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0176/2019 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
PIP P/0176/2019 is completed. The PDCO issued an opinion on compliance for the PIP P/0176/2019.  
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
In support of this application the MAH submitted the results of the Extrapolation Study AXN100107PIP 
aimed to evaluate the impact on the benefit-risk profile of asfotase alfa (STRENSIQ) for patients aged 6 
months to <3 years with Juvenile-Onset HPP.  
Strensiq  is  indicated  for  long-term  enzyme  replacement  therapy  in  patients  with  paediatric-onset 
hypophosphatasia to treat the bone manifestations of the disease. The recommended dose regimen of 
asfotase alfa is 2 mg/kg of body weight administered subcutaneously three times per week, or a dosage 
regimen  of  1mg/kg  of  body  weight  administered  subcutaneously  six  times  per  week.  The  maximum 
recommended dose is 6 mg/kg/week. The SmPC section 4.2 reports details on dose to be administered 
for patients from 3 kg to 100 kg body weight. 
The extrapolation submitted in the contest of this variation concerns the population from 6 months to <3 
years of age with Juvenile onset HPP (target population). The aim of this extrapolation was to compare 
the exposure, PLP and PPi response in the target population with those of the comparator groups (3 years 
of  age  <  18  years  of  age  with  Juvenile  onset  HPP  and  6  months  to  <  18  years  of  age  with 
perinatal/infantile  onset  HPP).  The  results  of  this  extrapolation  support  the  already  known  profile  of 
asfotase alfa medicinal product and no additional information is needed in the SmPC. The statement in 
SmPC  section  5.1  regarding  the  PIP  compliance  can  be  removed  as  the  results  and  reports  of  all  PIP 
measures  have  now  been  provided  by  the  MAH  and  these  results  are  reflected  in  the  SmPC  and,  as 
appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
The benefit-risk balance of Strensiq, remains positive. 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 4/13 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new 
Type II 
I 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Update of section 5.1 of the SmPC in order to remove the Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) compliance 
statement as per Article 28(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, following submission of the results and 
reports  of  all  the  PIP  measures,  including  results  of  the  Extrapolation  Study  AXN100107PIP 
(“Extrapolation of Efficacy to Asfotase Alfa Treatment in Paediatric Patients Ages 6 months to <3 years 
with Juvenile-Onset Hypophosphatasia”). 
 is recommended for approval. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics 
are recommended. 
Paediatric data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed Paediatric 
Investigation Plan P/0176/2019 and the results of these studies are reflected in the SmPC and, as 
appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 5/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex: Rapporteur’s assessment comments on the type II 
variation 
4.  Introduction 
The scope of this type II application is to remove the PIP compliance statement from section 5.1 of the 
SmPC as per Article 28(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006. 
In support of this application the MAH submitted the results of the Extrapolation Study AXN100107PIP 
aimed to evaluate the impact on the benefit-risk profile of asfotase alfa (STRENSIQ) for patients aged 6 
months to <3 years with Juvenile-Onset HPP. 
5.  Clinical Pharmacology aspects 
In the initial PIP approved by the PDCO on 01 Mar 2013 (EMEA-000987-PIP01-10), the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder (MAH) committed to address the unstudied population of children from 6 months to 
<3 years of age with Juvenile-Onset HPP. 
A final Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) compliance check was agreed by the Paediatric Committee 
(PDCO) on 18 Oct 2019 for asfotase alfa in the treatment of hypophosphatasia (HPP) 
(EMEA-000987-PIP01-10-M04), in accordance with Article 23 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
(“paediatric regulation”).  
The results of all PIP measures have already been submitted to the Agency, apart from the results of the 
Extrapolation Study AXN100107PIP. This extrapolation is developed on the basis of the initial popPK/PD 
modelling and simulation analysis (“Population Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Modeling and 
Simulation of Asfotase Alfa in Patients with Hypophosphatasia” included data from 60 patients) submitted 
withinthe initial MAA to establish a basis for asfotase alfa dose and regimen selection for treatment of 
patients with HPP. 
The purpose of AXN100107PIP report was to present data supporting the assumption that the 
safety/efficacy of asfotase alfa treatment is likely to be similar in paediatric patients 6 months to <3 years 
of age with Juvenile-Onset HPP by any relevant characteristics compared to children aged 3 to <18 years 
with Juvenile-Onset and to children aged 6 months to 18 years with Infantile Onset HPP (also referred to 
as Perinatal/Infantile Onset HPP).  
5.1.  Methods  –  analysis  of  data  submitted  within  AXN100107PIP  report 
(Extrapolation of Efficacy to Asfotase Alfa Treatment in Paediatric Patients 
Ages 6 months to <3 years with Juvenile-Onset Hypophosphatasia) 
The purpose of this analysis was to present data supporting the assumption that the safety/efficacy of 
asfotase alfa treatment is likely to be similar in paediatric patients 6 months to <3 years of age with 
Juvenile-Onset  HPP  by  any  relevant  characteristics  compared  to  children  aged  3  to  <18  years  with 
Juvenile-Onset and to children aged 6 months to 18 years with Infantile Onset HPP (also referred to as 
Perinatal/Infantile Onset HPP). 
The objectives of AXN100107PIP extrapolation  report are: 
• to summarize available pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) data in children ages 3 to 
<18 years with Juvenile-Onset hypophosphatasia (HPP) (comparator group 1, N=11) and children ages 6 
months to <18 years with Perinatal/Infantile-Onset HPP (comparator group 2, N=32).  
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 6/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  to  compare  the  previously-developed  PK,  PK-inorganic  pyrophosphate  (PPi),  and  PK-pyridoxal-5’- 
phosphate  (PLP)  model  fits  in  the  comparator  groups  to  demonstrate  that  the  models  provide  an 
adequate fit to the data in these specific patient sub-populations.  
• to compare predicted exposure-response (ER) characteristics in the comparator patient sub-populations 
to support the assumption that the outcome of asfotase alfa treatment in the unstudied target population 
is expected to be similar to the comparator sub-populations by any relevant characteristics.  
•  to  compare  predicted  exposure  of  patients  ages  6  months  to  <3  years  with  Juvenile-Onset  HPP  to 
previously  summarized  exposure/safety  relationships  for  ectopic  calcification,  injection/infusion 
associated reactions, and injection site reactions to bridge exposure/safety relationships to this unstudied 
patient population.  
The extrapolation analysis relied on a previously pooled dataset from 7 Phase I/II studies conducted  in 
paediatric  and  adult  patients  with  HPP  and  the  final  PK/PD  models  developed  for  PK-PPi  and  PK-PLP 
response endpoints used in the Pop-PK/PD report, that was submitted during the initial MAA. 
The  final  population  PK  model  analysed  the  IV  and  SC  data  simultaneously  from  the  entire  patient 
population  and  included  first-order  absorption  following  SC  administration  and  a  two-compartment 
disposition with elimination from the central compartment. 
The  final  population  PK  model  accounted  for  factors  responsible  for  altering  drug  disposition  (body 
weight,  sialic  acid  content  for  lot  of  asfotase  alfa  administered,  asfotase  alfa  batch  size,  and 
immunogenicity effects). Linking PK with PD data provided model-based characterization of asfotase alfa 
to response data from plasma biomarkers (inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) and pyridoxal-5’-phosphate 
(PLP)), functional endpoints (Bruininks-Iserestsky Test of Motor Proficiency, Second Edition (BOT-2) and 
Six-Minute Walk Test(6MWT), and radiographic-based measures Rickets Severity Scale (RSS) for wrist 
and knee and Radiographic Global Impression of Change (RGI-C)).Once developed, the models were used 
to perform simulations exploring ER relationships for each response endpoint. Additionally, relationships 
between quartiles of average concentration since first dose and the incidence rate of adverse events were 
examined  for  ectopic  calcification,  injection/infusion associated  reactions,  and injection  site  reactions. 
These safety summaries revealed no dependence on exposure. These relationships were used together to 
inform the dose selection for asfotase alfa in HPP patients.  
The results of the prior analyses were used in this current analysis to predict the ER relationship in a 
currently unstudied paediatric subset of HPP patients 6 months up to 3 years of age with Juvenile-Onset 
HPP. The dataset used in this analysis contains a greater number of patients in this age range (N=12), 
than  was  previously  available  in  the  EMA  submission  (N=6),  though  all  of  these  patients  are  of  the 
Infantile-Onset HPP phenotype and not the Juvenile-Onset phenotype of interest.  
The current analysis includes a total of 11 patients with both PK and PPi data and 10 patients with PLP 
data for the Juvenile comparator group 1. For the Infantile comparator group 2, the dataset included 32 
patients with PK data, 31 patients with PPi data and 27 patients with PLP data. 
The purpose of this analysis is to compare the ER relationships across two comparator groups that share 
relevant  characteristics  of  the  target  population.  Specifically,  and  where  applicable,  asfotase  alfa 
treatment  outcome  measures  was  compared  between  paediatric  patients  aged  3  to  <18  years  with 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 7/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Juvenile-Onset  HPP  (N=11)  and  paediatric  patients  aged  6  months  to  <18  years  with 
Perinatal/Infantile-Onset HPP (N=32). This comparison bridges the gaps in ages and phenotypes of the 
un-studied target population. Predicted exposure in the un-studied target population was also compared 
to the safety quartile summaries from the prior analysis to bridge the safety/exposure relationships for 
ectopic calcification, injection/infusion associated reactions, and injection site reactions.  
The extrapolation includes a graphical and tabular summary of observed (Comparator groups only) and 
simulated data of the Target and Comparator populations. 
Previously developed population PK and PD model results were evaluated specifically in the comparator 
groups to assess how well the models described the subset data. Diagnostic plots for the PK , PLP, and PPi 
models  suggest  a  good  fit  to  the  comparator  group  data.  Additionally,  previously  simulated  visual 
predictive check (VPC) results were also subset on the comparator group data and showed a reasonable 
fit with all three endpoints (PK,PLP and PPi). 
5.2.  Results 
Patient body weight is an important predictor of the PK of asfotase alfa. Due to the strong correlation 
between  age  and  weight  in  the  HPP  paediatric  patients,  weight  acts  as  a  surrogate  for  age  in  the 
population PK model. Though not included in the model, comparison groups for this analysis were subset 
by age for ease of reference.  
Exposure/response 
Final PK/PD models for PPi and PLP response endpoints were used to simulate the expected (median) 
exposure-response relationships across several asfotase alfa dosing regimens.  
Simulations of both biomarker endpoints resulted in responses which improved with rising exposures in 
all groups and neared or established a plateau in the exposure-response relationships (Figures 18, 20, 
and 22). The median exposure-responses were higher in the Infantile phenotype for both biomarkers. 
Hence,  at  similar  average  concentration  during  the  dosing  interval  at  steady-state  (Cavg,ss) 
concentration, the median responses would be expected to be greater in Infantile patients as compared 
with Juvenile patients. For PLP, relatively large standard errors of the PD response parameter estimates 
resulted in wide, overlapping confidence interval (CI)s in the expected exposure-response relationships 
for  the  comparator  groups  (Fig.18).  For  PPi,  the  median  and  90%  CIs  of  the  exposure-response 
relationships at Weeks 7 and 24 showed some separation between the Juvenile and Infantile comparison 
groups (Fig. 20 and 22). 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 8/13 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 9/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For both PLP and PPi, the exposure-response relationship for the target population (red) most closely 
resembled that of the Juvenile 3 to <18 years population (comparator group 1, Figures 18, 20, and 22). 
Since the age and, therefore, weight ranges between comparison groups 1 and 2 differ, the expected 
Cavg,ss values at this dose also differ, as do the ERs. When comparing groups of similar ages (6 months 
to <3 years) but with differing phenotypes for the approved 2 mg/kg x 3/week asfotase alfa dose only, 
the  similar  expected  exposures  resulted  in  lower  median  PLP  and  PPi  responses  in  patients  with  the 
Juvenile-Onset phenotype as compared to patients with the Infantile-Onset phenotype. 
In summary, exposure is expected to be similar between patients in the same age range independent of 
the disease onset, while the biomarker ER relationships of the unstudied population of children aged 6 
months to <3 years with Juvenile-Onset HPP is expected to be similar to that of other Juvenile patients 
(Figure 1 below). 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 10/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables show the simulated Cavg,ss for the currently approved dose regimens and the PLP 
and PPi responses.  
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 11/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure/safety 
An  exploratory  evaluation  of  population  exposure-response  relationships  for  specific  adverse 
event(ectopic  calcification,  injection/infusion  associated  reactions,  and  injection  site  reaction  events 
during the entire treatment duration for all relevant patients in the comparator groups in the dataset) was 
implemented. When viewed as a function of exposure quartiles, AE summaries revealed no dependence 
on exposure. 
The median (90% CI) of the expected Cavg,ss for a 2mg/kg x 3/week asfotase alfa dose in Juvenile HPP 
patients 6 months to <3 years of age was 1800 (1710, 1930) U/L after 24 weeks. This range falls within 
the  range  of  the  Infantile  comparator  group  and  is  at  the  upper  end  of  the  range  of  the  Juvenile 
comparator group Cavg,study values from this exposure/safety analysis. The simulated Cavg,ss of the 
target population, therefore, is not expected to be predictive of ectopic calcification, injection/infusion 
associated reactions, or injection site reaction events when viewed as a function of exposure quartiles. 
MAH’s conclusion 
Based on the data included in this submission, and in line with the above discussion, no changes are 
proposed to the Pharmacological properties section of the asfotase alfa SmPC in light of results of the 
Extrapolation Study AXN100107PIP. 
Considering that the other completed PIP measures have already been assessed as part of the procedure 
EMEA/H/C/003794/II/0035/G, the MAH proposes removal of the following paragraph from Section 5.1 of 
the SmPC: 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with Strensiq 
in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in hypophosphatasia (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use). 
5.3.  Discussion 
A  Paediatric  Investigation  Plan  (PIP)  was  agreed  with 
the  PDCO  on  01  March  2013 
(EMEA-000987-PIP01-10) for  asfotase  alfa  in  the treatment  of  HPP  and  a  final  compliance  check  was 
approved in October 2019 (EMEA-C-000987-PIP01-10-M04) including all agreed measures. Among other 
measures already submitted, the MAH was committed to address the unstudied population of children 
from  6  months  to  <  3  years  of  age  with  Juvenile-onset  HPP.  To  address  the  PDCO  request,  an 
extrapolation study ANX100107PIP was submitted aiming to compare the safety/efficacy of asfotase alfa 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment in paediatric patients 6 months to <3 years of age with Juvenile-onset HPP (target population) 
with children aged 3 to <18 years with Juvenile-onset HPP (comparator group 1) and children aged 6 
months to 18 years with Infantile-onset HPP (comparator group 2). The extrapolation was performed on 
the basis of a final PK/PD model developed at the time of the initial submission. The dataset was enriched 
with data from additional 6 patients in the age range considered (6 months < 3 years of age), but all these 
patients belong to the Infantile-onset phenotype. In the current analysis, the Juvenile comparator group 
1 included 11 patients with PK and PPi data and10 patients with PLP data. For the Infantile comparator 
group 2, the dataset included 32 patients with PK data, 31 patients with PPi data and 27 patients with PLP 
data. It can also be noted that the dataset contained 12 patients with PK data, 11 patients with PPi data 
and 8 patients with PLP data from the Infantile group with ages 6 months to <3 years. The final PKPD 
models for PPL and PPi endpoints was used to simulate the Cavg,ss and responses for several asfotase 
alfa  dose  regimes  in  the  comparator  and  target  groups  and  both  models  also  estimate  the  effect  of 
phenotypes on response. Data provided showed that the exposure in the target population is similar to 
that in infantile patients in the same age range and this is due to the fact that patient body weight, and 
consequently age, is a predictor of asfotase alfa exposure. In terms of efficacy, data showed that the 
estimated  PLP  and  PPi  responses  in  the  target  population  are  more  similar  to  that  expected  in  the 
comparator group 1 (3 to < 18 years of age with Juvenile-onset HPP). 
Regarding  safety,  no  relationship  is  identified  between  exposure  and  safety  endpoints,  therefore  the 
exposure  reached  in  the  target  population  is  no  expected  to  have  impact  on  ectopic  calcification, 
injection/infusion associated reactions, or injection site reaction events. 
Taken together, the results of this extrapolation support the already known knowledge about asfotase 
alfa medicinal product and no additional information is needed to be added in the SmPC. The statement 
in section 5.1 regarding the PIP can be removed. 
6.  Changes to the Product Information 
As a result of this variation, section 5.1 of the SmPC is being updated in order to remove the Paediatric 
Investigation Plan (PIP) compliance statement as requested by the MAH. 
Assessment report  
EMA/617078/2020  
Page 13/13 
 
 
 
 
