25 June 2015 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015   
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Strensiq  
International non-proprietary name: asfotase alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003794/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 7 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 7 
1.2. Manufacturers ...................................................................................................... 8 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 9 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 10 
2.1. Introduction....................................................................................................... 10 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 12 
2.2.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 12 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 12 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 17 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................. 20 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 22 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 22 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 22 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 22 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 22 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 24 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 27 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 30 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 30 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 31 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 31 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 31 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 34 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 35 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 38 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 39 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 39 
2.5.1. Main studies ................................................................................................... 40 
2.5.2. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 48 
2.5.3. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 52 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 54 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 71 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ....................................................................... 72 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 72 
2.8. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 72 
2.9. Product information ............................................................................................ 85 
2.9.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 85 
2.9.2. Labelling exemptions ....................................................................................... 85 
2.9.3. Quick Response (QR) Code ............................................................................... 85 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 85 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 90 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 2/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
25-OH vitamin  
25-hydroxy vitamin D 
6MWT 
ADA  
AE  
AESI  
Six-Minute Walk Test 
Antidrug antibody 
Adverse event 
Age groups defined by the Sponsor that align more closely with the 
Alexion-defined age groups  
enrolment criteria of the clinical studies 
ALP 
ALPL 
ALT  
Alkaline phosphatase 
Alkaline phosphatase, liver/bone/kidney         
Alanine aminotransferase 
ANCOVA 
Analysis of covariance         
ATS 
BiPAP 
BMC 
BMI  
BOT-2 
BPI-SF 
American Thoracic Society         
Biphasic positive airway pressure        
Bone mineral content         
Body mass index 
Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency, Second Edition     
Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form        
BSID-III 
Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development, Third Edition   
BUN  
CDC 
CFB 
CHAQ 
CI 
CLIA  
CNS  
CPAP 
CSR 
DBil  
DEXA 
DMD 
EMA  
ERT  
ETP 
EU 
FA 
FDA  
FIH 
FVC  
GLP 
Hct  
Blood urea nitrose 
Centers for Disease Control        
Change from baseline         
Child Health Assessment Questionnaire        
Confidence interval          
Chemical Laboratory Improvement Amendments 
Central nervous system 
Continuous positive airway pressure        
Clinical Study Report         
Direct bilirubin 
Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry        
Duchenne muscular dystrophy         
European Medicines Agency 
Enzyme replacement therapy 
Extension treatment period         
European Union          
set Full analysis set        
Food and Drug Administration (US) 
First-in-human           
Forced vital capacity 
Good laboratory practice         
Hematocrit 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 3/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
HEENT 
Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat 
Hgb  
HHD 
HPP 
IAR 
IAR  
IBil  
Ig 
Haemoglobin 
Hand-held dynamometry          
Hypophosphatasia           
Injection-associated reaction          
Injection- or infusion-associated reaction 
Indirect bilirubin 
Immunoglobulin           
Infantile-onset HPP 
A subgroup of patients with paediatric-onset HPP; patients in this subgroup 
subgroup  
experienced their first symptoms of HPP at <6 months of age 
ISR 
IV 
Injection site reaction 
Intravenous           
Juvenile-onset HPP 
A subgroup of patients with paediatric-onset HPP; patients in this subgroup 
subgroup  
experienced their first symptoms of HPP at ≥6 months but <18 years of age 
KM 
LEFS 
max 
MCID 
Kaplan-Meier           
Lower Extremity Functional Scale        
Maximum           
Minimum clinically important difference        
MedDRA  
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
min 
Mo 
NAb  
NOAEL 
O2 
PD 
PDMS-2 
PEA 
Minimum           
Month           
Neutralizing antibody 
No observed adverse effect level       
Oxygen           
Pharmacodynamics           
Peabody Developmental Motor Scales, Second Edition      
Phosphoethanolamine           
Pediatric-onset HPP 
Patients whose first symptoms of HPP occurred at <18 years of age 
Pi 
PK  
PL 
PLP 
POSNA 
PP 
PPi 
PTH  
PTP 
PY  
QD  
QoL 
RGI-C 
Inorganic phosphate          
Pharmacokinetic(s) 
Pyridoxal           
Pyridoxal-5’-phosphate 
PODCI  Paediatric  Orthopaedic  Society  of  North  America’s  Paediatric 
Outcomes Data  
set Per Protocol set        
Inorganic pyrophosphate          
Parathyroid hormone 
Primary treatment period         
Patient-year 
Once daily 
Quality of life         
Radiographic Global Impression of Change       
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 4/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
ROW  
RSS 
SAE  
SC  
SD  
SEM 
SOC  
Tbil 
TEAE  
TIW  
Rest of the world (geographically, not Asia, Europe, or the US/Canada) 
Rickets Severity Scale         
Serious adverse event 
Subcutaneous(ly) 
Standard deviation 
Standard error of the mean       
System organ class (MedDRA) 
Total bilirubin 
Treatment-emergent adverse event 
Three times weekly 
TNSALP  
Tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase 
UAE 
UK 
ULN  
US 
wk(s) 
United Arab Emirates         
United Kingdom          
Upper limit of the normal range 
United States 
Week(s)           
yr 
AEX-HPLC  
Year           
Anion-Exchange Chromatography 
AS  
CHMP  
CHO 
CPP  
CQA  
CVMP 
DP  
EC  
ELISA  
EU  
GMP  
HA 
ICH  
KPA 
KPP 
LIVCA  
Active Substance/ DS drug substance 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use  
Chinese Hamster Ovary  
Critical process parameter 
Critical Quality Attribute 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary use 
Drug Product/ FP finished product 
European Commission 
Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay 
European Union 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
Hydroxyapatite  
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
Key Process Attribute 
Key Process Parameter  
Limit of In Vitro Cell Age 
MALDI-TOF analysis 
Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Ionisation Time-Of-Flight analysis 
MCB 
MMV  
MuLV  
PDL  
Master Cell Bank 
Minute Virus of Mice 
Murine Leukaemia Virus 
Population Doubling Level 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 5/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Ph. Eur.  
European Pharmacopoeia 
pNPP  
PPi  
PRV  
QbD  
qRCR  
Reo  
RVLPs  
SEC-HPLC 
SmPC  
SV40 
TSE 
USP 
WCB 
p-nitrophenyl phosphate  
inorganic pyrophosphate 
Pseudorabies Virus 
Quality by Design 
quantitative 
Reovirus  
retrovirus-like particles  
Size Exclusion Chromatography 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Simian virus 40 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Working Cell Bank  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 6/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Alexion Europe SAS submitted on 1 June 2014 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Strensiq, through the centralised procedure falling within 
the Article 3(1) and point 4 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 30 May 2013. 
Strensiq was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/08/594 on 03/12/2008. Strensiq was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: Treatment of hypophosphatasia. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients 
with paediatric-onset hypophosphatasia. 
Following the CHMP positive opinion on this marketing authorisation, the Committee for Orphan 
Medicinal Products (COMP) reviewed the designation of Strensiq as an orphan medicinal product in the 
approved indication. The outcome of the COMP review can be found on the Agency's website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/orphans/2009/11/human_or
phan_000491.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d12b 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated 
that asfotase alfa was considered to be a new active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0306/2013 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0306/2013 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Applicant’s requests for consideration 
Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances 
The applicant requested consideration of its application for a Marketing Authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances in accordance with Article 14(8) of the above mentioned Regulation based on the 
following claims: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 7/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  Hypophosphatasia is a rare, serious, and life-threatening metabolic disorder. The incidence of 
the most severe forms of the disease is thought to be about 1:100,000 live births, although it 
is markedly higher in a small Canadian Mennonite population. The incidence of the most severe 
forms of HPP in Europe was recently estimated to be approximately 1:300,000. 
  Given the extreme rarity of the disease, comprehensive data on the efficacy and safety under 
normal conditions of use cannot be provided at this point of time. The overall analysis set 
included in the submitted Marketing Authorization Application included a total of 71 patients 
who were treated with asfotase alfa. The efficacy and safety data in patients with HPP aged 
≥18 years are limited. As requested by the CHMP, the Sponsor committed to conduct a study 
in the adult population in order to obtain (i) pharmacokinetic (PK) data on plasma levels of the 
enzyme in adults following administration of the dose advised in children, (ii) a dose response 
study in adults limited on biomarkers, and (iii) evidence of clinically significant benefit. 
However, based on the rarity of the disease, the sample size of this study is expecting to be 
small and data in this population will likely remain limited. 
  Hypophosphatasia is a seriously debilitating and life-threatening metabolic disease. No product 
has been approved for this indication. There is a high unmet medical need to provide 
hypophosphatasia patients with a safe and effective therapy. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance asfotase alfa contained in the above medicinal product to 
be considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of 
a product previously authorised within the Union. 
Protocol Assistance 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 22/04/2010 and received Protocol 
Assistance from the CHMP on 17/03/2011, 19/09/2013 and 24/10/2013. The Scientific Advice and 
Protocol Assistance pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer of bliological active substance 
Lonza Biologics 
101 International Drive 
Pease International Tradeport 
03801 Portsmouth 
Unites States 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Alexion Pharma International Trading 
Park West, Block 10A, Nangor Road 
Dublin 12 
Ireland 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 8/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP: 
Rapporteur: Greg Markey 
Co-Rapporteur: Daniela Melchiorri 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 1 June 2014. 
•  The procedure started on 23 July 2014.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 October 
2014. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 
October 2014.  
  During the meeting on 6 November 2015 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC) adopted the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
•  During the meeting on 20 November 2014, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 November 2014. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 January 
2015. 
•  The summary report of the inspection carried out at the Ajinomoto Althea Inc. site between 2 to 6 
February 2015 was issued on 9th April 2015. 
 
The summary report of the inspection carried out at the Lonza Biologics site between 23rd and 
27th March 2015 was issued on 9th June 2015.  
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 2 March 2015. 
  During the meeting on 12 March 2015 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
adopted the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 26 March 2015, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding Issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 17 April 2015. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 28 April 2015. 
  During the meeting on 7 May 2015 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
adopted the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
  During the meeting on 21 May 2015, the CHMP agreed on a second List of Outstanding Issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the second CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 26 May 
2015. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
second List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 9 June 2015. 
  During the meeting on 11 June 2015 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
adopted the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 9/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
•  During the meeting on 25 June 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation under exceptional circumstances to Strensiq.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Hypophosphatasia 
Hypophosphatasia is a rare and sometimes fatal metabolic bone disease caused by a defect in the gene 
encoding tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase. Tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase is found on 
the outer surface of osteoblasts and chondrocytes and in the matrix vesicles released by these cells: it 
hydrolyses several substances including inorganic pyrophosphate and pyridoxal 5’-phosphate (a form 
of vitamin B6). In the presence of low enzyme activity: 
 
inorganic pyrophosphate accumulates and inhibits formation of bone mineralization so causing 
rickets in infants and children and osteomalacia in adults.  
 
pyridoxal 5’-phosphate cannot be dephosphorylated to let it cross into the cell: intracellular 
deficiency in the brain leads to seizures. 
The presenting signs and symptoms of hypophosphatasia depend upon the age of presentation and 
vary from death in utero to relatively simple problems with dentition in adult life. Disease severity in 
hypophosphatasia is inversely related to the age at onset. The applicant did apply for a marketing 
authorisation for the treatment of the most severe form of the disease, i.e. paediatric-onset 
hypophosphatasia (see below). 
Perinatal hypophosphatasia is the most clinically severe form of hypophosphatasia and presents in 
utero or at birth with profound hypo-mineralization of bone, deformed or shortened limbs and rapid 
death owing to respiratory failure caused by rachitic chest disease and hypoplastic lungs. Stillbirth is 
common. Epilepsy may occur. Excessive osteoid may encroach on the marrow space and result in 
anaemia. X-rays show marked under-mineralization of bones and severe rachitic changes. Long-term 
survival is unusual. 
Infantile hypophosphatasia presents in the first 6 months of life. Postnatal development often appears 
normal until the onset of poor feeding, inadequate weight gain and rickets leading rib fractures, a flail 
chest, respiratory compromise and pneumonia. Defective mineralisation is associated with a 
‘functional’ craniosynostosis. Hypercalcaemia, nephrocalcinosis and renal impairment may occur and 
present with recurrent vomiting. Radiographic features are generally less pronounced than those found 
in the perinatal form. Mortality is up to 50% in the first year of life. 
Hypophosphatasia in childhood has variable clinical expression. Loss of deciduous teeth before the age 
of 5yrs occurs in association with characteristic dental x-ray findings. 
Patients complain of stiffness and pain along with delayed walking and / or a waddling gait. Growth 
retardation and frequent fractures are common. A ‘functional synostosis’ of cranial sutures may occur 
leading to elevation of intracranial pressure. 
X-rays show rachitic deformities and osteopenia. 
Adult hypophosphatasia is associated with rickets / osteomalacia and premature loss of teeth. Dental 
disease may be the only clinical abnormality where radiographic and / or histologic studies show no 
evidence of rickets or osteomalacia. Some patients present with pseudogout consequent to raised 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 10/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
inorganic pyrophosphate concentrations. The applicant did only apply for a marketing authorisation for 
the treatment of paediatric-onset hypophosphatasia. 
X-rays may show pseudofractures (typically of the proximal femora), stress fractures, 
chondrocalcinosis and osteopenia. 
Inheritance 
Perinatal and infantile hypophosphatasia are inherited as autosomal recessive traits. 
The mode of inheritance for childhood and adult forms of hypophosphatasia can be either autosomal 
dominant or recessive. 
The prevalence of perinatal and infantile hypophosphatasia is uncertain but is reckoned to be about 
1:100,000. The prevalence of later-onset hypophosphatasia is even less certain because symptoms 
may escape notice. 
The highest incidence of hypophosphatasia has been reported in the Mennonite community in 
Manitoba, Canada where one in every 25 people is a carrier and one in every 2,500 newborn infants 
has severe disease. 
Diagnosis 
A clinical diagnosis is made by a combination of clinical presentation, laboratory tests (low serum 
activity of alkaline phosphatase in association with raised concentrations of inorganic pyrophosphate, 
pyridoxal 5’-phosphate and phosphoethanolamine) and x-ray findings. 
All clinical sub-types of hypophosphatasia are associated with mutations in the gene encoding tissue 
non-specific alkaline phosphatase, found on chromosome 1p36.1-34 in humans. Over 200 mutations 
have been described and about 80% are missense mutations. There is no clear correlation between 
genotype and phenotype in hypophosphatasia. 
Treatment options 
At time of review of this marketing authorisation application, no approved therapies for 
hypophosphatasia were available. Current management consists of maintaining calcium balance (by a 
combination of diet and calciuretics) and palliation of symptoms by use of analgesia, occupational 
therapy and dental and orthopaedic interventions as needed. 
About the product 
Asfotase alfa is a human recombinant tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase-Fc-deca-aspartate fusion 
protein. It is intended as an enzyme replacement therapy for the treatment of patients with paediatric-
onset hypophosphatasia. Patients with hypophosphatasia have reduced activity of tissue-nonspecific 
alkaline phosphatase leading to impaired skeletal integrity. Previous attempts to treat patients with 
infusions of tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase did not correct the signs and symptoms of 
hypophosphatasia. It is thought that binding to cell membranes is needed for the enzyme to fulfil its 
functions and that previous products did not bear a domain to allow binding to cells. The current 
product has a deca-aspartate peptide domain that, according to the applicant, may promote 
attachment to cell membranes. 
Asfotase alfa is intended for subcutaneous administration and is administered to patients with 
hypophosphatasia with a view to cleaving inorganic pyrophosphate, releasing inorganic phosphate to 
combine with calcium to form hydroxyapatite crystals that mineralise bone and so restore skeletal 
integrity. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 11/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Asfotase alfa is a human recombinant tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase-Fc-deca-aspartate fusion 
protein. It is a soluble glycoprotein of 1452 amino acids made from the catalytic domain of human 
tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase, the human immunoglobulin G1 Fc domain and a deca-
aspartate peptide domain. 
Asfotase alfa is expressed in an engineered Chinese hamster ovary cell line that maintains endogenous 
folding, sorting, disulfide bridging and N-linked glycosylation. The current product has a deca-aspartate 
peptide domain that is intended to promote attachment to cell membranes, which may enhance the 
effectiveness of the enzyme to fulfil its functions. 
Asfotase alfa is administered to patients with hypophosphatasia with a view to cleaving inorganic 
pyrophosphate, releasing inorganic phosphate to combine with calcium to form hydroxyapatite crystals 
that mineralise bone and so restore skeletal integrity. Enzyme activity also permits pyridoxal to enter 
cells to act as a cofactor for many enzymatic reactions. 
The finished product is intended for subcutaneous administration. 
The product is presented as a sterile aqueous solution for injection, at two strengths: 100 mg/mL in a 
single presentation (80 mg in 0.8 mL) and 40 mg/mL in four presentations (12 mg in 0.3 mL, 18 mg in 
0.45 mL, 28 mg in 0.7 mL and 40 mg in 1 mL) in single use Type I glass vials, for subcutaneous 
administration. The vials are stoppered with siliconised rubber stoppers and sealed with aluminium 
seals with polypropylene flip-off caps.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
The active substance, asfotase alfa is a soluble IgG1 Fc fusion glycoprotein comprised of two identical 
polypeptide chains, each with a length of 726 amino acids, covalently linked by two disulfide bonds. 
See Figure 1 below. Each polypeptide chain is comprised of a soluble catalytic domain of human tissue-
nonspecific alkaline phosphatase, a human immunoglobulin IgG1 Fc domain and a deca-aspartate 
peptide domain intended to target bone. There are 6 N-glycosylation sites on each polypeptide chain; 
adequate details of the rationale for the fusion protein design have been presented.  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 12/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Representation of the Asfotase Alfa Structure 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The active substance is manufactured by Lonza Biologics Inc., at their Portsmouth, New Hampshire 
facility in USA. It is produced by a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) suspension cell line, which has been 
engineered for asfotase alfa expression. A flow chart for the manufacturing process is shown in Figure 
2.  
The upstream process is a conventional fermentation process, starting from the thawing of one vial of 
the Working Cell Bank (WCB). Cultures are progressively expanded using growth medium through a 
series of cell culture steps, and seed expansion bioreactors prior to inoculation into the production 
bioreactor. Upon completion of the cell culture, cells and cell debris are removed. Centrifugation and 
diafiltration steps follow. 
The downstream asfotase alfa active substance manufacturing process includes a series of 
chromatography steps, a solvent/detergent viral inactivation step, virus filtration and sterile filtration 
steps prior to shipment to the finished product manufacturing facility. Each active substance batch will 
typically result in asfotase alfa at a concentration of approximately 100 mg/mL. 
Control of materials 
Sufficient information on raw materials used in the active substance manufacturing process has been 
submitted. Compendial raw materials are tested in accordance with the corresponding monograph, 
while specifications for non-compendial raw materials are presented. Acceptable documents have been 
provided for raw materials of biological origin used in the manufacturing process. Ovine and fish 
derived raw materials are used as media components for cell culture. 
The host cell line chosen for production of asfotase alfa is the Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line 
DG44, a non-secreting cell line. Production of asfotase alfa is achieved by insertion of a cDNA sequence 
encoding for a fusion protein of the soluble catalytic domain of human tissue-nonspecific alkaline 
phosphatase, the human immunoglobulin Fc domain terminated by a deca-aspartate peptide, along 
with regulatory sequences and a marker gene for drug selection into the genomic DNA of a CHO cell 
line. The insertion occurs as a result of integration of the transfected DNA fragment into the genome 
and results in the expression of asfotase alfa. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 13/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Translation of the asfotase alfa mRNA results in the synthesis of the asfotase alfa protein including a 
17 amino acid signal peptide. The signal peptide is removed and a soluble, fully functional recombinant 
protein is secreted from the cell. 
A two-tiered cell banking system is employed, consisting of a Master Cell Bank (MCB) from which a 
WCB is derived. Cell banks are stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen. These cell banks are 
produced according to current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) regulations, and have been well 
characterised, including at the limit of in vitro age, to evaluate their ability to consistently produce the 
asfotase alfa active substance. A stability programme is in place for ongoing monitoring. However, 
discrepancies were observed with the establishment of gene copy number, which has been attributed 
to the test performance at different sites. Data obtained from the site that made the initial 
characterisation of cell banks are considered adequate, while there is a need to qualify the method 
used for gene copy number determination for the site listed in the dossier as a future characterisation 
and testing site. This is of particular importance in case further characterisation of cells will be needed 
in the future (i.e. a new cell bank will need to be established and compared to the original). The 
applicant has therefore been requested to provide new qualification data with respect to gene copy 
number to ensure that this procedure is appropriately established for the testing of future cell banks. 
The protocol as it has been presented for establishment and testing of new WCBs is acceptable, 
provided that the method for gene copy number is appropriately qualified i.e. there is a positive 
outcome following the review of the data requested in the relevant post-approval recommendation.   
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
A major objection had been raised on the control strategy. In responding to the major objection, the 
Applicant revised the control strategy, such that it is considered that the definition of critical/non-
critical control steps, process controls in place and proposed actions in event of failure to comply with 
process parameters, are sufficient to provide assurance of the quality of the active substance. The 
Applicant also confirmed that it does not seek registration of a design space as defined by ICH Q8. The 
major objection has therefore been resolved (see discussion section for further details). Certain non-
ICH terms are used for example, key process parameter (KPP) and key process attribute (KPA). A KPP 
is an input parameter that is controlled within an acceptable range and is essential for process 
performance. Maintenance of a KPP within its acceptable range is not known to impact critical quality 
attributes. Failure to maintain a KPP within its operating range will be investigated through the 
deviation process. A KPA is an output variable related to process repeatability and reliability that 
cannot be directly controlled but is an indicator that the process performs as expected. Failure to 
maintain a KPA within its output ranges will be investigated through the deviation process 
Acceptable manufacturing process controls, key operating parameters and the respective acceptance 
criteria and ranges have been provided for the cell culture, primary recovery and purification stages. 
Points raised regarding the manufacturing process during the review process (including on starting 
materials, fermentation conditions, holding times, specification limits for intermediates and filters) 
have also been satisfactorily resolved.  Steps at which reprocessing is permitted have been specified, 
as have lifetimes for chromatography resins. The active substance is processed continuously from cell 
vial thaw through to bulk fill with short term holding times of specified intermediates. These holding 
times have been presented (hold time and storage temperature) and validated. In summary, the 
measures in place can satisfactorily provide assurance of the control of the manufacturing process. 
Process validation 
Process validation studies were performed on four consecutive bulk active substance batches 
manufactured. The asfotase alfa commercial- scale manufacturing process was evaluated as a whole - 
from initial thaw through bulk fill - for the qualification of the entire process. Eleven operation units, 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 14/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
covering the entire manufacturing process, were evaluated individually and holistically to validate the 
asfotase alfa bulk active substance manufacturing process.  
It was recommended that a preapproval inspection be conducted at the active substance 
manufacturing site (Lonza Biologics, Portsmouth, USA) with focus on fermentation, purification steps, 
process validation (PQR) and traceability with regard to the proposed batch numbering system. At 
inspection, the inspectors did specifically investigate issues arising. These were deemed to have 
eventually been appropriately addressed by the manufacturing facility. The outcome of the inspection 
of this site has been positive. 
The shipping of the active substance from its manufacturing site to the site of manufacture of the 
finished product has been adequately validated. 
The asfotase alfa active substance manufacturing process has been validated adequately 
demonstrating that the purification process can consistently produce active substance of reproducible 
quality that complies with the predetermined specification and in-process acceptance criteria. 
Manufacturing process development 
Initial active substance batches intended for clinical studies were manufactured at pilot cell-culture 
scale. The manufacturing process was scaled up to the commercial-scale cell culture process and 
transferred to Lonza Biologics to meet expected demand. Genealogy of batches used for non-clinical 
and clinical studies has been provided. A number of studies to support the changes in development 
have been provided and the comparability of the two process scales has been appropriately 
demonstrated. Of note, active substance from the final process at the commercial-scale has also been 
used in clinical studies. The history of the development of the manufacturing process has therefore 
been adequately described, with changes to the process during the clinical development clearly 
indicated and supported by relevant investigational work.  
Characterisation 
The biological function of asfotase alfa is provided by the soluble part of recombinant human TNSALP 
(a metallo-enzyme that catalyses the hydrolysis of phosphomonoesters with release of inorganic 
phosphate and alcohol). Asfotase alfa enzymatic activity is determined by using a synthetic substrate, 
p-nitrophenyl phosphate (pNPP), and the natural substrate, inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi). The ability 
of asfotase alfa to maintain its enzymatic activity once bound to bone is determined by an asfotase alfa 
and hydroxyapatite (HA) complex using pNPP as a substrate. 
Characterisation of asfotase alfa was performed to provide a comprehensive understanding of the 
chemical structure and the biochemical, biophysical, and biological properties of the protein allowing a 
precise description of its quality attributes (the identity, purity, size, structure, glycosylation, charge 
profile, biological activity and immunochemical properties). The studies included investigation of a 
batch from the commercial-scale process. The rationale for the design of the fusion protein has been 
adequately described- the Fc domain is stated to be included primarily for purification purposes rather 
than for any influence on pharmacokinetics. Three different assays (pNPP-based alkaline phosphatase 
enzymatic assay, hydroxyapatite (HA)-bound asfotase alfa activity, and PPi hydrolysis assay) were 
used to test the ability of asfotase alfa to maintain target enzymatic activity in vitro. Several 
appropriate methods were used to evaluate the properties of asfotase alfa that relate to its primary, 
secondary, tertiary and quaternary protein structure. In addition, post-translational modifications 
related to glycosylation, cysteine bonding, putative oxidation and additional mass were included in the 
evaluation. The analytical results are consistent with the proposed structure. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 15/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
An intact Fc region, as contained in asfotase alfa, could potentially bind to Fc receptors and activate 
the complement system. The activation of the complement system via the classical pathway occurs 
when complement factor C1q binds to the Fc fragment of antibodies bound to an antigen. 
The potential of asfotase alfa to activate the complement in serum samples was evaluated using an 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) which determined the concentration of CH50 (total 
complement activity) in human serum samples. This study demonstrated that the Fc domain does not 
trigger an immunochemical response at the concentration intended in clinical settings. In summary, 
the characterisation is considered appropriate for this type of molecule. 
Specification 
The release and stability specifications for the active substance include tests for physical description, 
general characteristics, quantity, identity, purity and impurities (both product- and process-related), 
potency, and safety.  
Three different assays are used to test the ability of asfotase alfa to maintain enzymatic activity in 
vitro (pNPP, HA binding and PPi).  
pNPP-based alkaline phosphatase enzymatic assay - This method is used for the determination of 
asfotase alfa enzymatic activity to catalyse the hydrolysis of phosphomonoesters with a release of 
inorganic phosphate and alcohol. 
HA-bound asfotase alfa activity - The ability of asfotase alfa to localize in bone tissue due to the C-
terminus deca-aspartate high affinity for HA and maintain its enzymatic activity once bound to bone is 
determined by an asfotase alfa and HA complex using pNPP as a substrate. With regard to the HA 
binding assay, the Applicant states that the difference in activity between bound enzyme and control is 
expressed as a percentage of asfotase alfa bound to HA.  
PPi hydrolysis assay - PPi, a natural alkaline phosphatase substrate is used to determine kinetic 
constants of asfotase alfa under physiological conditions (37°C, pH 7.4). 
In some instances, a variety of tests are used to cover a single category such as purity. The analytical 
methods employed in the testing of the active substance have been adequately described and (non-
compendial methods) appropriately validated in accordance with ICH guidelines.  
The information provided in support of the justification of specification for both active substance and 
finished product is considered acceptable (see discussion). However, it is considered that for a number 
of active substance release parameters, although the proposed specifications are now acceptable based 
upon the data available and clinical justification, a greater control of the process/consistency may be 
needed to provide greater dose-to-dose consistency. Therefore, the Applicant has been requested to 
evaluate these specifications at a later stage, when further batch data are available. Alexion has 
committed to continuous monitoring of all active substance attributes in accordance with internal 
procedures and has implemented a long term process monitoring program for asfotase alfa active 
substance manufacturing to ensure the process is performing consistently. The Applicant has also 
committed to re-assess the release specification based on data generated under the process 
monitoring program and provide an update to the Agency at that time.  
Process-related impurities were identified following the evaluation of the asfotase alfa manufacturing 
process in terms of process additives and substances generated during manufacturing. These include 
residual DNA and host cell proteins (HCP) from the CHO cells; materials used during early seed culture 
and fermentation; reagents used in viral inactivation and reagents used in purification. Studies 
demonstrated consistent reduction of process-related impurities for selected steps in the asfotase alfa 
bulk active substance manufacturing process to acceptable levels. The effective clearance of these 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 16/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
impurities was also confirmed during process validation. Residual HCP and DNA are also included in the 
active substance release specification. In summary, the capability of downstream processing 
operations in removal of process-related impurities has therefore been satisfactorily evaluated. 
Product-related impurities are molecular variants that do not have the properties comparable to the 
desired product which include variants of the active substance with molecular weight other than the 
main band, aggregates and truncated molecule. SEC-HPLC is used as a purity assay by separating high 
molecular weight species (aggregate), asfotase alfa dimer and low molecular weight species 
(fragments). AEX basic peaks contain mainly asfotase alfa and possibly a small percentage of high 
molecular weight species. The AEX acidic peak contains asfotase alfa high molecular weight species. 
Basic and acidic species are product-related as confirmed by peptide finger printing by matrix-assisted 
laser desorption ionisation time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) analysis. Studies have demonstrated consistent 
levels of product related impurities for selected steps in the asfotase alfa bulk active substance 
manufacturing process. This was demonstrated by measuring levels of selected impurities in samples 
collected from the process intermediate steps. The results demonstrate that these impurities are 
consistent and at low levels and will be continuously monitored at bulk active substance release, 
whereby the limits set are clinically justified. 
Analytical results for several commercial batches manufactured during 2013 at the commercial- scale 
are demonstrated as complying fully with the proposed active substance specification. These include 
clinical, process validation and commercial lots. Data have been provided regarding the container 
closure system and satisfactory data clarifying the extractable / leachable data submitted. 
Stability 
A shelf-life for asfotase alfa active substance stored at 2 – 8°C protected from light was proposed.  
Stability studies conducted in accordance with ICH Q5C, for active substance include long-term (2 - 
8°C) storage and accelerated (23 - 27°C) storage, protected from light. All stability samples are placed 
into small volume (50 mL) bags of the same type and construction as the proposed container closure 
system. 
All commercial-scale active substance batches were pooled (>10 batches) to support expiry which the 
Applicant justifies since there have been no significant changes during active substance manufacture at 
the commercial-scale. This is acceptable. 
The documents submitted by the Applicant for the stability studies, to support the requested shelf-life 
are satisfactory. All the inspected quantitative attributes remain within specifications up to the 
proposed shelf-life and therefore the limit is approvable. Indeed, the Applicant has committed to 
continue the stress-stability study on three lots of active substance, mirroring the design of the 
finished product study. This commitment is acknowledged. However, in accordance with EU GMP 
guidelines,1 the study results need only be reported to the authorities in case of out-of-specification 
results/ significant negative trend.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Overall, the development, manufacture, characterisation and control of the finished product have been 
sufficiently described. The major objection related to the setting of specification, shared with the active 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal products in the European Union 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 17/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                
 
substance, has been resolved. The specification is now acceptable, however it should be re-evaluated 
after accumulation of further data, as specified for active substance.  
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The product is presented as a sterile aqueous solution for injection, prepared by aseptic filtration, at 
two strengths: 100 mg/mL in a single presentation (80 mg in 0.8 mL) and 40 mg/mL in four 
presentations (12 mg in 0.3 mL, 18 mg in 0.45 mL, 28 mg in 0.7 mL and 40 mg in 1 mL) in single use 
Type I glass vials, for subcutaneous administration. There is an overfill of 0.13 mL per vial for all 
presentations. The vials are stoppered with siliconised rubber stoppers and sealed with aluminium 
seals with polypropylene flip-off caps.  
Excipients are well-known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph.Eur. 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The excipients used 
are: sodium chloride (tonicity agent), dibasic sodium phosphate heptahydrate (buffering agent), 
monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate (buffering agent) and water for injection (solvent). 
The physiochemical and biological properties of the finished product are identical to the physiochemical 
and biological properties of the active substance except for concentration. The formulation buffer 
composition has remained unchanged during non-clinical and clinical development. 
Consideration has been given to the product properties, formulation development, manufacturing 
process development, suitability of the container closure system, microbiological attributes of the 
product and manufacturing process and compatibility of the product with commonly used 
administration devices. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The physiochemical and biological properties of the asfotase alfa finished product are identical to the 
physiochemical and biological properties of the active substance except for concentration.  
Asfotase alfa 100 mg/mL finished product is manufactured by filtration of the active substance with 
sterilising grade filters, followed by filling into a prepared container closure system using an automatic 
filling machine, then sealing the filled and stoppered vials. Due to the sensitivity of proteins to heat, 
terminal sterilisation of asfotase alfa finished product is not feasible. Therefore, the active substance is 
sterile filtered prior to vial filling. All manufacturing steps are performed using aseptic techniques. Each 
finished product batch consists of one active substance batch. A single active substance batch may be 
used to produce multiple finished product batches. 
In-process controls are considered to be appropriate for the manufacturing operations carried out.  
The asfotase alfa finished product manufacturing process had undergone two notable changes 
throughout clinical development. The first of these was a change in the finished product manufacturing 
facility. Comparability of material from the two sites has been effectively shown. The second change 
was adding a dilution process step for the formulation of 40 mg/mL asfotase alfa finished product 
concentration prior to filling.  
The active substance was formulated at either 40 mg/mL or 100 mg/mL and filled without further 
formulation. In 2010, the active substance manufacturing was transferred to Lonza biologics and 
finished product manufacturing was also transferred to another manufacturer. Active substance is 
formulated at the 100 mg/mL concentration and filling of this concentration occurs without further 
formulation steps. The 100 mg/mL concentration is diluted with additional formulation buffer, to 
formulate the 40 mg/mL finished product presentation, prior to filling. 
The manufacturing process has been successfully validated on the manufacture of several batches of 
100 mg/mL product and several batches of 40 mg/mL product, to demonstrate the suitability and 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 18/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
robustness of the process. All major equipment such as the vial washer, autoclaves and 
depyrogenation oven were successfully qualified for cleaning, sterilisation of the container closure 
components and supportive materials for filling and cleaning.  
The primary container closure system for both the 40 mg/mL and 100 mg/mL asfotase alfa 
concentrations consists of a 2 mL Ph. Eur. Type I glass vial, a 13 mm butyl rubber stopper (plug face 
laminated with Flurotec, entire stopper coated with B2-40 silicone) and an aluminium seal with a 
polypropylene flip-off cap. Data to demonstrate container suitability, chemical resistance and container 
closure integrity and investigations of extractable/ leachables have been submitted. 
Product specification 
The release and stability specifications for the finished product include tests for physical description, 
general characteristics, quantity, identity, purity and impurities (both product- and process-related), 
potency and safety. These specifications proposed for release and shelf-life of the finished product are 
similar to that applied to the active substance, with additional product specific tests including sterility, 
particulates and extractable volume. 
The analytical methodology used for testing of the finished product is largely identical to that employed 
for testing of the active substance; some further validation to cover the analytical transfer to additional 
testing sites has been performed. Overall, the choice of the testing parameters for finished product is 
considered satisfactory. Adequate information on reference standards has been provided. 
All release data from asfotase alfa finished product batches, including data from all batches used in 
non-clinical and clinical studies, process validation and commercial batches at both the 40 mg/mL and 
100 mg/ mL concentrations have been presented in full against the specification that was in effect at 
the time of testing. Presented batch data include several commercial-scale, process validation batches 
of 100 mg/mL product and commercial-scale, process validation batches of 40 mg/mL product. These 
batches were used in clinical studies and complied with the specification in force at the time of testing. 
Furthermore, some finished product specification limits have subsequently been tightened to provide 
even further control of batch to batch consistency. The impurity profile is discussed in the active 
substance section of this report. No additional impurities are introduced during finished product 
manufacture. A recommendation has been made to review the finished product specification after 
manufacturing experience has been gained.  
Stability of the product 
Asfotase alfa finished product (40 mg/mL and 100 mg/ml concentrations) is stored at 2 – 8°C. 
Stability studies conducted for finished product include stress studies, long-term (2 - 8°C) storage and 
accelerated (23 - 27°C) storage. A photostability study was performed on three finished product lots 
which included the two finished product concentrations (40 mg/mL and 100 mg/mL). In response to 
questions, further evidence has been provided to show that product-related impurities approaching the 
proposed specification limits were present in stability samples at time-points corresponding with the 
use of the same batches in clinical studies. 
Stability data from earlier batches stored for 24 months show compliance to specifications, although no 
data for this time point have been presented for any of the validation batches that correspond to the 
proposed commercial fill volumes. 
Finished product lots representing the clinical and commercial manufacturing process including several 
process validation lots for each finished product concentration have been placed on long term stability 
at 2 – 8°C and accelerated stability at 23 - 27°C, protected from light. These studies were conducted 
in containers representative of the commercial formulation.  The statement in the SmPC that chemical 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 19/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for up to 1 hour at temperatures between 23°C to 
27°C is justified based upon the data from the accelerated stability studies.  
Many of the real-time test results from the 40 mg/ mL and the 100 mg/ mL lots do show compliance to 
the specification, however for a few key stability attributes, testing has not been performed up to the 
18-month time-point and extrapolation is necessary. Furthermore, taken together with the fact that 
although specifications are clinically justified, they require review upon analysis of further batch data to 
provide greater assurance of dose-to-dose consistency, the finished product shelf-life is restricted to 15 
months at this stage (See Discussion section and recommendations). This may be changed upon the 
availability of further data in a future variation procedure. Indeed, the commitment of the Applicant to 
monitor finished product stability in on-going studies is acknowledged, however in accordance with EU 
GMP guidelines2 the study results need only be reported to the authorities in case of out-of-
specification results/ significant negative trend. 
Adventitious agents 
Information regarding the raw materials of biological origin used in the manufacturing process of 
asfotase alfa active substance is deemed acceptable. A plant derived substance is used in the active 
substance manufacturing process. CHO cells originate from hamsters. Ovine and fish derived 
substances are used as media components for cell culture. The relevant certification has been 
presented. Compliance with the TSE Guideline (EMEA/410/01 – rev. 3) is considered sufficiently 
demonstrated. 
The testing programme of cell banks and un-processed bulk harvest for virus contamination is 
considered adequate and in compliance with ICH Q5A. No adventitious viruses have been detected, 
while retrovirus-like particles (RVLPs) were observed. The retrovirus-like particles present are non-
infectious and typical of the parental CHO cell line. 
The manufacturing steps considered for virus validation studies are acceptable. Viral titrations were 
performed with the application of standard infectivity and qPCR methods. Viral removal/inactivation 
capacity by the asfotase alfa manufacturing process was evaluated for MuLV, PRV, Reo and MMV and 
SV40. The selected model viruses are appropriate, as enveloped and non-enveloped viruses are 
included.  
Overall reduction factors are satisfactory and demonstrate the efficacy of the asfotase alfa 
manufacturing process to remove/inactivate possible viral contaminants. New resins as well as aged 
resins show a similar capability in removing viral particles.  
The bulk harvest is routinely tested for mycoplasma and viruses. Bioburden and endotoxin testing are 
monitored throughout active substance and finished product manufacture. Detailed validation reports 
for the viral validation studies have been reviewed and found acceptable.  
No materials of animal origin are used in the finished product manufacturing process. There are not 
considered to be any risks from adventitious agents resulting from the limited use of animal derived 
raw materials in the manufacturing processes of the active substance or finished product.  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The information presented in the dossier in relation to the manufacture of the active substance has 
followed the guidance laid down in ICH Q11. A major objection had been raised related to the control 
strategy for active substance manufacture. The Applicant has now adequately described the control 
strategy applied to the manufacture of the active substance, with definitions for Critical Quality 
Attributes (CQA), Critical Process Parameters (CPP) and the (non-ICH) terms of Key Process Attribute 
and Key Process Parameter (KPP).  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 20/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
A review of the process controls in place during inoculum expansion and fermentation has been 
performed that has resulted in the redefinition of two further process parameters  
Furthermore, the process description has been amended to reflect tightening of cell culture process 
controls, in that any deviation from the target range is to be investigated for potential impact on 
product quality via the normal deviations procedure. The current in-process control defining the limit of 
in vitro cell age (LIVCA) with a limit for population doubling level (PDL) at inoculation of the production 
fermenter is not fully accepted, since it is considered that the in vitro cell age should cover the whole 
culture age including harvest. Therefore the Applicant has committed to ensure (by process controls or 
appropriate process characterisation data) that a LIVCA of population doublings is not exceeded at the 
end of each production run (at harvest). 
Sections 3.2.S.2.2, 3.2.S.2.4 and 3.2.S.2.6 have been updated to reflect the clarification and 
amendments made in line with this tightening of the control strategy. 
Justification is provided for the process controls applied during active substance manufacture. Target 
ranges or acceptance criteria applied are based on prior experience, work performed during 
manufacturing process development and during process validation.  
In responding to the major objection, the Applicant has tightened the control strategy, such that it is 
considered that the process controls in place and proposed actions in event of failure to comply with 
process parameters are sufficient to provide assurance of the quality of the active substance. The 
major objection has therefore been resolved. 
The active substance has been satisfactorily characterised employing a suite of orthogonal techniques, 
which have also been used to adequately demonstrate comparability between development, clinical 
study and commercial scale batches.  
Manufacture of the finished product is straightforward, consisting of dilution with buffer (if required), 
sterile filtration and filling. 
The active substance and finished product specifications are similar and are considered to cover 
appropriate parameters, employing orthogonal techniques. A major objection was however raised 
regarding the justification of specification and a complete reassessment in line with ICH Q6B was 
requested. The Applicant subsequently provided all the requested data to permit assessment of the 
justification of specification for quantitative attributes. The proposed rationale is now considered in 
agreement with the ICH Q6B. In particular: 
• 
The requested tabulated summary has been provided and the concerns about the data used 
have been acceptably clarified. 
• 
The Applicant clarified that the information about the PpK Index (statistical method) is not 
intended to support the setting of the acceptance criteria for the specification ranges.  
Moreover, the Applicant presented 99%/95% Tolerance Intervals results; although they are not used 
as the main basis for setting the acceptance criteria for specifications; this is considered acceptable as 
Tolerance Intervals calculated on a limited number of batches (in general less than 20) are not 
endorsed as they would result in acceptance criteria ranges which are too large, to ensure desired 
quality. The Applicant should therefore re-evaluate specifications after further data (both for active 
substance and for finished product) are available.  
Therefore, the major objection raised during initial assessment, for both active substance and finished 
product specifications, relating to the justification of specification, has been addressed. Specifications 
are supported by clinical studies and may be approved with the commitment from the Applicant to re-
evaluate them after accumulation of data from active substance and finished product respectively.  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 21/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Additionally, a point had been raised regarding expression of finished product potency. The Applicant 
was asked to investigate the feasibility of adapting the product presentation and posology in terms of 
determined potency units, rather than by product weight. However justification has been provided to 
continue to employ posology based on weight, with regard to patient compliance issues. In order to 
provide greater clarity regarding product administration, a dosing table has been included in the SmPC. 
Another point for clarification was raised with regard to this, concerning feasibility of accurate dose 
measurement. The Applicant has subsequently provided adequate reassurance with regard to the 
accuracy of dose measurement using widely available syringes for both proposed dosing regimens. 
Stability data indicate that the active substance and finished product are fairly robust, not being overly 
susceptible to degradation.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Approval of this product from a Quality perspective is recommended. The quality of this product is 
considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined in the SmPC. 
Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product have 
been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented to give 
reassurance on viral/TSE safety. Recommendations for future quality development are given below. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP has recommended points for investigation as detailed in the report. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Asfotase alfa is a soluble glycoprotein of 726 amino acids that contains a human tissue non-specific 
alkaline phosphatase (TNSALP) catalytic domain, a human immunoglobulin G1 Fc domain and a deca-
aspartate peptide. The aspartate component is reported to bind directly to growing hydroxyapatite 
crystals in bone. In appropriate tissues, asfotase alfa is proposed to allow the TNSALP moiety to 
efficiently degrade excess local inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) and restore normal mineralisation. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
In vitro, asfotase alfa was shown to have a 32-fold greater affinity to purified hydroxyapatite than 
kidney TNSALP lacking the deca-aspartate peptide. While the asfotase alfa’s deca-aspartate peptide 
(D10) domain was intended to target the molecule/enzymatic activity to the bone tissue, there is a 
limited amount of non-clinical data to support this. In addition, although asfotase alfa was retained in 
bone tissues for longer periods than in other tissues examined, the D10-induced targeting of tissues 
was not conclusively demonstrated. 
Following 5 days of ascorbic acid and β-GP-induced extracellular matrix deposition and mineralisation, 
MC3T3-E1 cell cultures were exposed to various treatments of PPi (± 5 μM) in the presence or absence 
of asfotase alfa (132 U/L) for one week. In MC3T3-E1 cell cultures, asfotase alfa abolished the PPi-
induced reduction of calcium concentrations. None of the treatments affected collagen matrix 
deposition. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 22/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
In vivo, preclinical efficacy studies with asfotase alfa were conducted in a murine knockout model 
(designated Akp2-/-) of human HPP. The Akp2-/- mice were characterised by a number of features 
including endogenous accumulation of the alkaline phosphatase (ALP) substrates PPi and pyridoxal-5’ 
phosphate (PLP) in the plasma, excess of unmineralised bone matrix and impaired growth. They also 
exhibit a mineralisation deficit at the Achilles tendon enthesis, and abnormalities in skull development 
and morphology. Episodes of apnoea and epileptic seizures were also evident and reportedly 
contributed to early death. The clinical features of the Akp2-/- mouse were similar to those of the 
infantile form of human HPP. The Akp2-/- mouse was therefore reported to be a relevant model to 
evaluate asfotase alfa for the treatment of HPP. However, the Applicant states that the analyses of the 
effects of asfotase alfa on the craniofacial defects observed in the model Akp2-/- mouse model are still 
ongoing. The Applicant’s responded to the request of additional data, by submitting the abstract of a 
study presented at the Association of Bone and Mineral Research 2014 Annual Meeting (Liu, 2014). It 
was indeed demonstrated that TNAP enzyme replacement starting in neonates rescues all craniofacial 
skeletal abnormalities seen in Alpl-/- mice. Micro-CT, histologic and digital caliper based analyses show 
that the skulls of treated P15 Alpl-/- mice (n=44) are significantly different than those of untreated 
Alpl-/- mice (n=44), but not significantly different than those of wild type mice (n=45). These findings 
suggest that post-natal TNAP enzyme replacement therapy is efficacious for preventing HPP-associated 
craniofacial skeletal abnormalities when initiated shortly after birth. 
Results presented also indicate that the influence of TNAP on craniofacial skeletal development extends 
beyond that of promoting hydroxyapatite crystal growth, and includes both osteoblastic and 
chondrocytic differentiation mechanisms. Overall, the data are deemed to be acceptable. 
In Akp2-/- mice, subcutaneous (SC) prophylactic treatment with asfotase alfa at doses of 0.5 to 
8.2 mg/kg/day (corresponding to 303 to 8241 Units of alkaline phosphatase activity/kg/day) prevents 
hindpaw bone mineralisation-associated defects in a dose-dependent manner. In vehicle-treated Akp2-
/- mice, the median survival time was reported to be 19.5 days. Prophylactic treatment of Akp2-/- 
mice with asfotase alfa significantly increased survival at all doses tested. A dose-response relationship 
was observed between the normalised daily dose of asfotase alfa (0.5 to 8.2 mg/kg/day) and survival. 
Prophylactic treatment of Akp2-/- mice also demonstrated that asfotase alfa prevented accumulation of 
PPi and PLP in plasma, reduced enthesis mineralisation defects and reversed suppression of weight 
gain and bone growth. The lengths of the left tibiae and femurs from Akp2-/- mice treated with 8.2 
mg/kg/day asfotase alfa for 43 days were similar to WT in one study but shorter than WT (by up to 
6%) in another study. The differences in bone length observed between the two studies may represent 
a more sensitive parameter for efficacy evaluation at higher doses. Cessation of dosing reversed the 
effects of asfotase alfa prophylactic treatment on weight gain and survival, suggesting that continuous 
therapy with asfotase alfa was required for sustained benefit. Concerning the effects of asfotase alfa on 
PLP levels, the study ALP-PT-25.1 was conducted using a certified commercial laboratory rodent diet 
with no vitamin B6 supplementation. This way PLP (the primary vitamin B6 coenzymic form) 
measurements would not be affected by dietary intake. The evaluation was carried out as a pilot to a 
planned study ALP-PT-26, which confirmed the previously submitted results. It has been shown that 
continuous treatment of Akp2-/- mice with asfotase alfa for the full duration of the study (47 days), 
partially improved the reduced grip strength in the forelimbs, completely prevented the increase in 
both plasma PLP and liver glycogen levels, partially reversed the decreased bone length, and 
completely reversed the suppression of weight gain, in comparison to the 35-day asfotase alfa 
administration followed by 12 days vehicle injection. 
In therapeutic preclinical studies, treatment with asfotase alfa was initiated 12 or 15 days after birth, a 
time point at which significant mineralisation-associated defects are observed in Akp2-/- mice. 
Treatment of Akp2-/- mice with asfotase alfa reduced mineralisation defects of bones and reversed 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 23/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
suppression of body weight gain. Therapeutic treatment with asfotase alfa significantly increased 
survival in the Akp2-/- mouse using various doses and SC dosing regimen. The daily dosing regimen 
was generally the most efficacious. These therapeutic effects were similar to those observed following 
prophylactic treatment. 
Some differences were observed in AUC0-24 and Cmax in studies 902480 versus 902238, and 902236 
versus 902237 employing batches 169466 (2000L) and 259248 (20000L scale process), respectively, 
therefore the Applicant is asked to provide a tabular overview of all the available exposure data (Cmax 
and AUC) derived by studies employing DS batches produced with 200, 2000 and 2000 L scale 
processes. There is no difference in scale process among studies 902480, 902238, 902236 and 
902237. Drug substance batches 259248 and 169466 used in these studies have a same scale process 
of 20,000L, not 2,000L as noted by the Applicant. This is accepted. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No secondary pharmacology studies with asfotase alfa were reported. This is acceptable. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
In a study in Akp2-/- mice administered either 1 or 4 SC doses of asfotase alfa at 8.2 mg/kg/day 
beginning on day 12, there was no induction of hypocalcaemia or hypophosphatemia.  
The bolus intravenous (IV) administration of 180 mg/kg asfotase alfa produced acute reactions in rats. 
The administration of asfotase alfa by slow IV infusion or pre-treatments of diphenhydramine or 
dexamethasone SC reduced the reactions but did not completely alleviate the acute response. There 
was no evidence detected of a complement-based aetiology. 
A single IV injection of asfotase alfa at dose levels of 30 and 88 mg/kg produced immediate but 
transient and reversible effects (abnormal gait and reduced mobility, reduced extensor thrust reflex, 
altered landing foot splay and lower grip strength) on the general behaviour of male rats. Paw swelling 
and redness, decreased body temperature, and irregular/laboured breathing were also seen in the 
30 and 88 mg/kg dose groups. An IV dose of asfotase alfa at 3 mg/kg did not result in any measurable 
behavioural effects. 
In a respiratory study in rats, asfotase alfa induced dose-dependent depressive effects on respiratory 
function. These effects were most notable during the first 2 hours after dosing. These effects coincided 
with the transient, acute infusion reactions observed in other rat IV toxicity studies and were not 
observed in rats administered asfotase alfa by SC administration. 
No significant effects on ECG were seen in juvenile monkeys administered SC doses of up to 10 
mg/kg/day asfotase alfa for 6 months. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No specific pharmacodynamics drug interaction studies were conducted. This is acceptable. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of asfotase alfa have been studied in mice, rats, rabbits, and 
monkeys. The methods of analysis to determine levels of asfotase alfa from mouse, rat, rabbit, and 
monkey blood/serum and various tissues have been provided. Validation reports for the serum assays 
used in the GLP studies in rat, rabbit and monkey are considered adequate. The methods used are 
considered to be suitably validated. However, three assay parameters, i.e., calibration range, 
background subtraction and MRD, presented some variations. This was considered to potentially affect 
the quantitative enzyme determination. The Applicant adequately discussed the points related to the 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 24/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
differences encountered in the analytical assays developed for PK evaluations. It was clarified that all 
the three parameters evaluated (calibration range, background subtraction and MRD) do not present 
variations which could impact on the asfotase alfa PK parameters analysed in the GLP toxicology 
studies. 
Absorption:  Following a single IV administration, clearance (CL) of asfotase alfa ranged from 
0.00504-0.0540 L/h/kg in mice, rats, rabbits and monkeys with apparent terminal t½ raging from 
~30-40 hours. Vdss observed in these species suggest distribution of asfotase alfa into peripheral 
tissues. Linear kinetics, with an approximately constant CL over a dose range of 5-180 mg/kg, was 
observed in adult monkeys, while kinetic linearity was not assessed in mice, rats and rabbits because 
only one dose level was evaluated in the single dose PK studies. 
Following repeated IV or SC administration of asfotase alfa for either 4 weeks or 26 weeks, AUC and/or 
Cmax values increased either proportionately (suggesting linear kinetics) or disproportionately (higher 
or lower, suggesting nonlinear kinetics) with increasing dose across the studies. Multiple factors, such 
as study design, drug lot, immunogenicity profile and/or age of animal may have affected the dose 
proportionality assessment, particularly between studies. Based on the estimated half-life values, the 
extent of drug accumulation in juvenile rats and monkeys were dependent on dosing frequency. At a 
weekly dosing schedule, no drug accumulation was observed. With a daily dosing regimen, drug 
accumulation was apparent. Sex differences in TK parameters were not observed in juvenile rats or 
juvenile monkeys. 
A study was conducted where pregnant (CD-1) and non-pregnant (C57BL/6) mice were administered 
daily SC doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.5, 2 or 8.2 mg/kg/day asfotase alfa for 5 days on gestation days 13-17 
(ALP-PT-15). Asfotase alfa concentrations were reported to be higher in non-pregnant mice. However, 
this could be due to strain differences. After repeated SC administration to pregnant mice at a dose 
range of 0.5-8.2 mg/kg, asfotase alfa levels were quantifiable in foetuses at all doses tested, 
suggesting cross-placental transport of asfotase alfa. 
As asfotase alfa contains human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) Fc domain, an immunogenic response in 
animals was expected. Development of anti-drug antibody (ADA) was observed in 4 out of the 5 
repeated dose studies. The incidence rate of ADA per time point per group was 0-100% in both rats 
and monkeys. The impact of ADA on systemic exposures in rats and monkeys varied from negligible to 
~85% reduction in AUCs (relative to the corresponding group mean AUC values).  
A toxicokinetic study of asfotase alfa was conducted in juvenile rats administered IV doses of 1, 3 or 
13 mg/kg/day asfotase alfa for 26 weeks. Systemic exposures in Week 26 increased in a greater than 
dose proportional manner, suggesting non-linear kinetics. It was noted that drug lots of asfotase alfa 
with different TSAC levels (1.9 and 1.0) were used at weeks 1 to 19 and 20 to 26. Although some drug 
lots were expected to show a higher drug exposure, the reported exposure for week-26 was expected 
to be conservative compared to the exposures attained in the earlier phase of the study, i.e. week 1 
through week 19. Therefore, the Week 26 exposure data was considered to be valid. 
In a local tolerance study using male juvenile rats administered SC doses of 0, 0.84, 8.4 or 25.2 
mg/kg/day asfotase alpha, ADA was detected in the blood samples from all dose groups including 
control animals. 
In an embryo-foetal development study in pregnant rats administered daily IV doses of asfotase alfa at 
13, 25 or 50 mg/kg on gestation days 6-19, Cmax increased in a greater than dose proportional 
manner, suggesting non-linear kinetics. In contrast to other studies, drug accumulation was not 
observed. The reason for this remained unclear. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 25/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
In a pre and postnatal toxicology study of asfotase alfa in which pregnant rats were administered daily 
IV doses of asfotase alfa at 10, 25 or 50 mg/kg/day from gestation Days 6-19, the increase in 
systemic exposure was greater than dose proportional. The AUC values in this study were higher than 
those detected in pregnant rats of another study. 
In an embryo-foetal development study in which pregnant rabbits were administered IV doses of 
asfotase alfa (with a TSAC of 2.7) at 10, 25 or 50 mg/kg/day from postcoitum days 7-19, systemic 
exposure increased in an equal to or greater than dose proportional manner. The AUC values in this 
study were higher than those detected in pregnant rabbits of a dose-range study. There was high 
inter-animal variability in serum concentrations of asfotase alfa and this was attributed to the possible 
development of ADAs. In pregnant rabbits administered IV doses of asfotase alfa at 10, 25 or 50 
mg/kg/day, ADAs were detected in 70, 65 and 75% of animals, respectively. 
In juvenile cynomolgus monkeys administered once weekly IV doses of 0, 5, 15 or 45 mg/kg/dose for 
4 weeks, the increase in systemic exposure was equal to or greater than dose proportional. ADA was 
observed in all dose groups. However, the incidence was higher in the 45 mg/kg dose group. 
In juvenile cynomolgus monkeys administered SC doses of 0.43, 2.14 or 10 mg/kg/day for 6 months, 
the increase in systemic exposure was equal to or slightly greater than dose proportional. Exposures 
were low in the 2.14 mg/kg/day dose group at Weeks 4 and 26 and the reason for this was unclear. 
Drug accumulation was seen at all doses. At Week 30, ADAs were detected in the 0.43 and 2.14 
mg/kg/day dose groups (in 25 and 75% of animals tested, respectively) but not in the 10 mg/kg/day 
dose group. The reason for this remained unclear. 
Distribution:  Tissue distribution of asfotase alfa was characterised in juvenile mice administered a 
single IV dose of 5 mg/kg 125I-asfotase alfa and newborn mice that received repeated SC doses of 
4.3 mg/kg 125I asfotase alfa for 14 days. 
The distribution of 125I-asfotase alfa to long bones was observed. AUC and Cmax were higher in bone 
tissue, femur, than that in soft tissue, such as kidney, liver, lung and muscle. Radioactivity remained in 
the long bones for at least 64 hours without a noticeable decline over the 96-168 hours of study 
period, suggesting bone retention. The radioactivity in blood/serum was eliminated more rapidly than 
that in bone tissues. 
In the distribution study (ALP-PD-01), the protracted presence of 125I-asfotase alfa in calvaria, tibia 
and femur, claimed by the Applicant, might indicate accumulation, retention or slow clearance of the 
component from these tissues. The Applicant regards this as bone targeting. However, this is 
considered to be drug retention in bone tissue as bone targeting was not conclusively demonstrated. 
Metabolism and excretion:  No specific non-clinical metabolism and/or excretion studies were 
performed with asfotase alfa. Such studies are not considered necessary for a biotechnology-derived 
product as the expected consequence of metabolism is the normal catabolic degradation to small 
peptides and amino acids. 
No evidence of any unique clearance pathway for asfotase alfa was identified. The disposition of 
asfotase alfa is likely to be governed by the general mechanisms that are thought to play a role in the 
disposition of other Fc-fusion proteins. 
Drug interaction:  Non-clinical pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies were not conducted with 
asfotase alfa as the clearance pathways of therapeutic proteins differ from those of small molecules. 
Therefore, drug interactions between co-administered asfotase alfa and small molecules are unlikely to 
affect their pharmacokinetic profiles. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 26/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Other pharmacokinetic studies:  Neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) binding affinity of asfotase alfa was 
reported to be similar to two other positive controls, abatacept and etanercept (Fc domain-containing 
fusion proteins). The correlation analysis between FcRn binding affinity and clinical half-life showed 
that clinical half-life of asfotase alfa was comparable to abatacept and etanercept. These data were 
considered to suggest that the contribution of FcRn-mediated recycling to asfotase alfa clearance is 
similar to other Fc-fusion proteins. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
A range of nonclinical studies was performed in support of the asfotase alfa development programme. 
These studies include single- and repeated-dose toxicology studies, reproductive and developmental 
toxicity studies. Toxicokinetic evaluations were performed in most of the repeated-dose studies. Anti-
drug antibody (ADA) assessments were also conducted. In addition, local tolerance was also evaluated 
as part of the repeated dose studies.  
The juvenile Sprague Dawley rat and juvenile cynomolgus monkey were selected as the appropriate 
rodent and non-rodent species, respectively, to evaluate the nonclinical safety of asfotase alfa. 
Single dose toxicity:  In a single dose study in juvenile cynomolgus monkeys, the IV administration 
of up to 180 mg/kg was considered to be well-tolerated. A marked dose-proportional increase in ALP 
activity was observed in all animals throughout the study due to the presence of circulating test article. 
Transient increases in serum ALT and AST activities were observed in three animals. These findings 
were not clinically or biologically relevant as they were not associated with any clinical sign or adverse 
findings. 
Repeated dose toxicity:  Weekly administration of asfotase alfa by the IV route to juvenile rats for 
4 weeks at nominal doses of 0, 2.6, 26, 77 mg/kg was associated with a limited number of effects. The 
most consistent effect noted was a transient injection reaction (partially closed eyes, decreased muscle 
tone, lying on the side, hunched posture, cool to touch, uncoordinated movements, decreased activity, 
abnormal gait and/or blue, red and/or firm swollen hindpaws and/or forepaws) observed up to 
60 minutes post dose. A reduction in the appendicular skeleton (femur and tibia) was also detected. 
However, no consistent effect on the axial skeleton and no effect in the crown to rump length was 
noted. Although the Applicant states that the small recovery group size, high variability and lack of 
consistency (with respect to gender) confounded these results. 
Increased levels of serum phosphorus and total serum calcium, and decreased C-telopeptide values 
were observed in juvenile rats administered 77 mg/kg/week for 4 weeks. There were no effects 
observed on bone architecture. 
The daily IV injection of 1, 3 or 13 mg/kg/day of asfotase alfa to juvenile rat for 26 weeks was 
associated with transient clinical signs including red and sometimes swollen muzzles, fore- and hind-
paws for up to 1 hour post-dose throughout the dosing period and most consistently in the 13 
mg/kg/day group. No toxicologically meaningful changes were seen in most of the parameters 
assessed during the study. 
The increased serum ALP activities observed were attributed to circulating levels of asfotase alfa. 
Based on observations of transient clinical signs during the treatment period which were completely 
reversible, and did not result in any effect on the parameters used to assess toxicity at dose levels of 
1, 3 or 13 mg/kg/day, the no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) was considered to be 
13 mg/kg/day. 
A study was conducted to investigate the effects of asfotase alfa administered once weekly by slow IV 
injection to juvenile cynomolgus monkeys for 4 weeks followed by a 28-day recovery period. The only 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 27/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
affect seen was a dose-related increase in ALP activity. The Applicant attributed this to the presence of 
circulating recombinant ALP test article in the animals after each dose administration. The levels of ALP 
were generally similar to control values by the end of the recovery period. No effect on bone 
development was observed. No other toxicologically significant effects were reported. 
Based on the results of this study, weekly IV injection of asfotase alfa to male and female cynomolgus 
monkeys for 4 weeks , at dose levels of 0, 5, 15 and 45 mg/kg, and followed by a 4-week recovery 
period, was without evidence of toxicity at any dose level. Therefore, the high dose level tested, 45 
mg/kg/week, was considered to be the NOAEL. 
The daily SC injection of asfotase alfa in juvenile monkeys for 6 months at 0.43, 2.14 or 10 mg/kg 
resulted in injection site observations, including skin scabs, skin dryness and/or skin redness. Asfotase 
alfa was not associated with any biologically relevant changes in body weight, food consumption, 
ophthalmology (including any evidence of ectopic calcification in the eyes), electrocardiography, 
haematology, clinical chemistry, urinalysis, biochemical markers of bone turnover, bone densitometry 
or bone geometry parameters, organ weights, macroscopic changes or microscopic findings during the 
study. 
Increased serum alkaline phosphatase activity levels were attributed to circulating levels of asfotase 
alfa. There were trends for increased bone mass (at the tibia metaphysis and/or lumbar spine) and 
cortical thickness (at the tibia diaphysis) but no clear treatment-related effects. There was no 
indication that bone growth was slowed or in any way adversely affected by treatment, or any 
evidence of ectopic calcification in any tissue. The calvarium was examined from two sites containing 
the coronal and lambdoidal sutures. There were no abnormalities (e.g. premature suture closure) 
noted for the age of juvenile monkey used. Focal granulomatous inflammation with mineralisation 
(ectopic calcification) and mononuclear cell infiltration of the injection site was observed in animals 
from all treated groups and was partially to completely reversed following 4-weeks of recovery; focal 
minimal persistent inflammation remained in some injection sites from the high dose group. As the 
clinical signs at the injection sites (characterised as ectopic calcification or mineralisation) during the 
treatment period were partially to completely reversible and the injection was well tolerated, the 
NOAEL level was considered to be 10 mg/kg/day. 
Although the rats (21 days) and monkeys (1 year) used in studies 670314 (rats) and 670388 
(monkeys) cover the paediatric population aged >0.1 month to approximately 24 months, the animals 
used of both species had not reached the age at which the fusion of 2° ossification centres was 
complete (15-162 weeks in the rat and 3-6 years in the monkeys) (Zoetis 2003). 
The Applicant discussed the relevance of ossification center fusion also in those animals covering 
paediatric patients aged 2-18, by clarifying that this aspect was taken into consideration in the 26 
week study in rats (670315), although the ossification was not examined in the two repeat dose 
monkey studies. Taken together, these data are considered acceptable. 
Toxicokinetics:  The toxicokinetics of asfotase alfa have been investigated in a series of repeated 
dose IV and SC toxicity studies of up to 26 weeks duration in the rat, rabbit, and monkey. Following 
repeated IV or SC administration of asfotase alfa for either 4 weeks or 26 weeks, AUC and/or Cmax 
values increased either proportionately (suggesting linear kinetics) or disproportionately (higher or 
lower, suggesting nonlinear kinetics) with increasing dose across the studies. Multiple factors, such as 
study design, drug lot, immunogenicity profile and/or age of animal may have affected the dose 
proportionality assessment, particularly between studies. Based on the estimated half-life values, the 
extent of drug accumulation in juvenile rats and monkeys were dependent on dosing frequency. At a 
weekly dosing schedule, no drug accumulation was observed. With a daily dosing regimen, drug 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 28/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
accumulation was apparent. Sex differences in TK parameters were not observed in juvenile rats or 
juvenile monkeys. 
The implications of the toxicological findings identified in preclinical studies for the risk of toxicity in 
man is unclear due an incomplete understanding of the asfotase alfa toxicokinetics, the great 
variability of ADA measurements in animals, and inconsistences among the AUC and Cmax values 
found in the study reports, PK written and toxicology written summaries, that do not allow firm 
conclusions to be made on the AUC values achieved at NOAELS and consequently on the safety 
margins.  
For safety margin estimations, no extrapolation was used during AUC calculations since observed data 
were employed. Also, it was specified that safety margin calculations were appropriately conducted on 
the basis of both exposure and enzymatic activity data at 26 weeks. The Applicant acknowledged that 
sound conclusions about the impact of ADA on the non-clinical asfotase alfa PK cannot be made. 
However, an acceptable explanation was given about ADA impact on asfotase alfa clearance at the 
D150 step of the procedure, using the accumulation factor (AF) as an appropriate monitoring approach 
in relation to the drug half-life, where the AF is calculated as a ratio of AUC at the end of treatment 
(where ADA has been developed) to the AUC at the beginning of treatment (where the ADA is 
presumably close to zero).  
Genotoxicity:  No genotoxicity studies have been performed as asfotase alfa. This is acceptable. 
Carcinogenicity:  No carcinogenicity studies have been performed as asfotase alfa. This is acceptable. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity: In a fertility and early embryonic development study in 
rats, the administration of asfotase alfa at 10, 25 or 50 mg/kg/day by once daily IV injection was 
associated with acute injection reactions typical of those observed after previous studies utilising IV 
administration of asfotase alfa in rats. Males administered 50 mg/kg/day had slightly decreased body 
weights. Fertility and early embryofoetal development at doses ≤50 mg/kg/day were not different 
compared to vehicle-treated rats. Based on these results, the NOAEL was considered to be 25 
mg/kg/day for males and 50 mg/kg/day for females. The NOAEL for the fertility and early 
embryofoetal development was considered to be 50 mg/kg/day. 
In an embryofoetal development study in rats, the administration of asfotase alfa once daily by IV 
injection at dose levels of 13, 25 or 50 mg/kg/day from gestation Day 6 to 19 was associated with 
transient clinical signs. These clinical signs were typical of those seen in rats after IV administration of 
asfotase alfa. 
There was no evidence of ectopic calcification in any fetal samples examined. Based on these results, 
the maternal NOAEL was considered to be 13 mg/kg/day (AUC=167 and 104 at gestation days 6 and 
19, respectively mg.h/L). There was no evidence of foetotoxicity, embryolethality or teratogenicity 
associated with asfotase alfa in this study, therefore the NOAEL for embryofoetal development was 
considered to be 50 mg/kg/day (AUC=1096 and 1146 mg.h/L at gestation days 6 and 19, 
respectively). 
In an embryofoetal development study in pregnant New Zealand white female rabbits administered IV 
doses of 10, 25, or 50 mg/kg/day asfotase alfa from gestation Days 7 to 19, inclusive, there was no 
evidence of foetal toxicity, teratogenicity or embryolethality; therefore, the NOAEL for embryofoetal 
development was considered to be 50 mg/kg/day. Renal tubular mineralisation was detected in2 
pregnant animals administered 50 mg/kg/day. The maternal NOAEL was considered to be 25 
mg/kg/day. As there was no evidence of foetal toxicity, teratogenicity or embryolethality, the NOAEL 
for embryofoetal development was considered to be 50 mg/kg/day. Renal tubular mineralisation was 
detected in 2 pregnant animals administered 50 mg/kg/day. The maternal NOAEL was considered to be 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 29/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
25 mg/kg/day (AUC=1978 and 1573 at gestation days 7 and 19 mg.h/L, respectively). In pregnant 
rabbits administered IV doses of asfotase alfa at 10, 25 or 50 mg/kg/day from gestation Days 7 to 19, 
anti-drug antibodies were detected in 70, 65 and 75% of animals, respectively. This could affect the 
detection of any embryofoetal toxicity. 
A pre and postnatal development study was conducted in female rats administered 10, 25, or 50 
mg/kg/day asfotase alfa by IV injection from Day 6 of gestation to Day 21 postpartum. For the F0 
generation dams, transient clinical signs typically observed following IV injections of asfotase alfa were 
noted in all treated groups within 4 hours of dosing. A low incidence of pup cannibalism was noted for 
F0 dams in the mid and high dose groups. It is uncertain whether the cannibalism was treatment-
related and its clinical relevance unclear. For the F1 generation adult males at 50 mg/kg/day, there 
were slightly lower body weight and food consumption values noted during the post weaning period. 
For offspring (F1 and F2 generation) there were no effects on survival, physical development, 
behaviour or reproductive performance. There was no evidence of treatment-related ectopic 
calcification. Based on these results, the NOAEL for the F0, F1 and F2 generations was considered to 
be 50 mg/kg/day (AUC 1339 mg.h/L). 
Local tolerance:  In most studies, mild local irritation was noted after SC injection, however these 
findings were generally reversible. In a local tolerance study, the IV injection of asfotase alfa to 
juvenile rats once weekly for 28 days caused transient adverse clinical signs at ≥30 mg/kg that 
reversed within 24 hours. The SC injection of asfotase alfa in juvenile rats once daily for 4 weeks was 
generally well-tolerated. Treatment-related findings included focal minimal to mild 
perivascular/subcutaneous mononuclear cell infiltrate at the injection sites at doses of ≥ 0.84 
mg/kg/day, and axillary lymph node enlargement, that correlated with axillary lymph node minimal 
lymphoid hyperplasia in animals administered ≥ 8.4 mg/kg/day. As this study did not include a 
recovery period and the reversibility of these effects was not examined. 
Impurities:  There are no impurities in the drug product or drug substance that required further 
evaluation. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Asfotase alfa is a recombinant protein. The applicant provided justification that therefore asfotase alfa 
is not considered to provide a risk to the environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Asfotase alfa is a soluble IgG1 Fc fusion glycoprotein comprised of two identical polypeptide chains, 
each with a length of 726 amino acids. Each polypeptide chain is comprised of a soluble catalytic 
domain of human TNSALP and a human immunoglobulin IgG1 Fc domain, a deca-aspartate peptide 
(D10).  
The non-clinical development programme for asfotase alfa consisted of a range of pharmacodynamic, 
pharmacokinetic and toxicology studies, in which the activity of asfotase alfa was investigated in vitro 
and in vivo. Pharmacokinetic studies examined the absorption and distribution profile of asfotase alfa. 
In the single and repeated dose toxicity studies, asfotase alfa was given intravenously and 
subcutaneously (which is the same route of administration used clinically). A local tolerance study was 
also conducted with asfotase alfa. 
Asfotase alfa demonstrated preclinical efficacy in both prophylactic and therapeutic paradigms in a 
murine gene knockout model of hypophosphatasia, the Akp2-/- mouse model. In the prophylactic 
studies, asfotase alfa prevented the accumulation of circulating inorganic pyrophosphate and 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 30/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
pyridoxal-5’ phosphate, reduced mineralisation defects of bones and had a beneficial effect on bone 
length and weight gain suppression. Survival time was also increased. 
The positive effects of asfotase alfa on growth and survival were lost after dosing was discontinued 
suggesting that continuous therapy with asfotase alfa is required for sustained benefit. Therapeutic 
treatment with asfotase alfa promoted bone mineralisation, improved survival and reversed the weight 
gain suppression observed in Akp2-/- mice. 
Safety pharmacology and toxicity studies were conducted in rats, rabbits and cynomolgus monkeys. 
Toxicokinetic and supportive ADA evaluations were conducted in several studies by measuring dose-
proportional and transient IV infusion-associated reaction in rats. These reactions included depressed 
respiration, decreased motor activity, and swelling in the extremities. The injection response was not 
observed in monkeys (dosed either IV or SC), rabbits (dosed IV or SC) or in rats treated with 
equivalent SC doses. Injection site irritation was observed in the monkeys dosed by SC injection. 
These changes were mild and largely reversible. As these injection-related reactions were considered 
to be non-adverse and the NOAEL for each of the longer-term studies was generally considered to be 
the highest dose tested in each of the studies, the combined results from the toxicology studies 
provide some support to the clinical use of asfotase alfa. 
There are no major objections or other concerns on non-clinical grounds.  
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Overall from a non-clinical perspective, no major objections or other unaddressed concerns remained 
in the view of the CHMP. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 31/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: 
Completed and Ongoing Clinical Studies with Asfotase Alfa  
Descriptor 
Study Design 
ENB-001-08 
Multicenter, 
multinational, 
open-label, 
dose-escalation, 
safety & efficacy, PK, 
PD 
Countries 
Canada, USA 
Study Status 
Completed 
ENB-002-08/ 
ENB-003-08 
Multicenter, 
multinational, 
open-label, 
single-group 
assignment, safety & 
efficacy, PK, with 
extension 
Canada, UAE, UK, 
USA 
Completed/ 
Ongoing 
11/10 
10/9(1) 
0.5 to 35 months 
Study Number 
ENB-010-10 
Multicenter, 
multinational, 
open-label, safety & 
efficacy, PK 
Canada, Germany, 
Japan, Taiwan, 
Turkey, USA 
Currently enrolling 
and ongoing 
28 
24(1),(2) 
0 to 72 months 
Number of Patients Enrolled  
6 
Number of Patients Completed(1) 
6 
Age at Inclusion 
24 to 58 years 
Number of Patients by Age at Disease Onset (age at onset of first signs and/or symptoms of HPP)   
28 
Pediatric-onset 
4  
28 
1 
0 
3 
0 
0 
0 
2 
yes 
yes 
Perinatal/Infantile (<6 months) 
Juvenile (6 months <18 years) 
11 
11 
0 
0 
0 
yes 
Adult-onset (≥18 Years) 
Unknown-onset 
Included in Clinical 
Pharmacology Analysis 
Included in Integrated Efficacy 
Analysis (n=52) 
Included in Integrated Safety 
Analysis (n=71) 
no 
no 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
ENB-006-09/ 
ENB-008-10 
Multicenter, 
multinational, 
open-label, 
dose-comparison, 
parallel-assignment, 
historical control, 
safety & efficacy, PK, 
PD, with extension 
Canada, USA 
Completed/ 
Ongoing 
13/12 
12/12(1) 
5 to 12 years 
ENB-009-10 
Randomized, 
multicenter, 
multinational, 
open-label, 
dose-ranging, 
concurrent control, 
safety & efficacy, PK 
Canada, USA 
Ongoing 
19 
18(1) 
13 to 66 years 
13 
5 
8 
0 
0 
yes 
yes 
yes 
16  
4 
12 
2 
1 
yes 
no 
yes 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 32/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 1: 
Completed and Ongoing Clinical Studies with Asfotase Alfa (Continued) 
Descriptor 
Dosing Regimen 
Analysis cutoff Date for CSR 
Analysis cutoff Date for 
Integrated Analyses 
ENB-001-08  
Cohort 1: Single 
3 mg/kg IV dose 
followed by 1 mg/kg 
SC dose once weekly 
for 3 weeks 
Cohort 2: Single 
3 mg/kg IV dose 
followed by 2 mg/kg 
SC dose once weekly 
for 3 weeks 
NA 
NA 
ENB-002-08/ 
ENB-003-08  
Single 2 mg/kg IV 
dose followed 
by1 mg/kg SC TIW, 
with dose adjustments 
per protocol 
Study Number 
ENB-010-10 
2 mg/kg SC TIW or 
1 mg/kg SC 6×/week, 
with dose adjustments 
per protocol 
ENB-006-09/ 
ENB-008-10  
2 mg/kg SC TIW or 
3 mg/kg SC TIW, 
with dose adjustments 
/1 mg/kg SC TIW 
later changed to 
2 mg/kg SC TIW or 
1 mg/kg SC 6×/week, 
with dose adjustments 
per protocol 
ENB-009-10 
No treatment (control) 
or 0.3 mg/kg SC QD 
or 0.5 mg/kg SC QD 
Extension 1: 
0.5 mg/kg SC QD 
starting at Week 24 
Extension 2: 
1.0 mg/kg SC 
6×/week 
16 NOV 2012 
22 NOV 2013 
22 NOV 2013 
22 NOV 2013 
22 JAN 2013 
05 NOV 2013 
29 JAN 2013 
30 OCT 2013 
 Study ENB-001-08 is not included in the pooled efficacy and safety analyses. Four of the 6 patients who enrolled in ENB-001-08 also enrolled in ENB-009-10 and are only 
counted once. 
 Study ENB-003-08 is the extension study for Study ENB-002-08. Patients who rolled over from the parent study to the extension study were only counted once. 
 Study ENB-008-10 is the extension study for Study ENB-006-09. Patients who rolled over from the parent study to the extension study were only counted once. 
 Study ENB-010-10 is continuing to enroll patients. 
(1) 
For ongoing studies, the number of completed patients is reflective of the number of patients that were continuing asfotase alfa treatment as of the analysis cutoff date for 
the integrated analyses. 
. 
Abbreviations: CSR = clinical study report; HPP = hypophosphatasia; IV = intravenous; NA = not applicable; PD = pharmacodynamic; PK = pharmacokinetic; QD = once daily; 
SC = subcutaneous; TIW = 3 times weekly; UAE = United Arab Emirates; UK = United Kingdom; USA = United States of America. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 33/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption  
ENB-0040 bioavailability after s/c dosing ranged from 62.9% to 98.4% after the first dose of ENB-0040 
1 mg/kg and 54.2% to 71.3% after the first dose of ENB-0040 2 mg/kg.  
Distribution 
n/a 
Elimination 
n/a 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
After s/c dosing, median Tmax was 24 to 48 hours with dose-proportional increases in mean Cmax and 
AUC0-168h between cohorts. 
Within the limits of variability and the small patient number, Cmax was comparable after first and third 
SC doses for both cohorts, as was AUC0-168h for Cohort 2. Since AUC0-168h could be estimated at 
Week 4 only for 1 patient in Cohort 1, no comparison can be made.  
Mean t½ after s/c dosing was relatively consistent between cohorts and between Weeks 2 and 4; 
individual patient values ranged from 111 to 166 hours. The longer t½ after s/c dosing is most likely a 
consequence of slower absorption from the s/c injection site. 
Pharmacokinetic studies 
Pharmacokinetics of asfotase alfa were evaluated in a 1-month, multi-centre, open-label, dose-
escalating study in adults with hypophosphatasia. 
  Cohort 1 (n=3) of the study received asfotase alfa 3 mg/kg intravenously the first week 
followed by 3 doses at 1 mg/kg subcutaneous at weekly intervals from weeks 2 to 4. 
  Cohort 2 (n=3) received asfotase alfa 3 mg/kg IV the first week followed by 3 doses at 2 
mg/kg subcutaneous at weekly intervals from weeks 2 to 4. 
  After the 3 mg/kg for 1.08 hours intravenous infusion, the median time (Tmax) ranged 
between 1.25 to 1.50 hours, and the mean (SD) Cmax ranged between 42694 (8443) and 
46890 (6635) U/L over the studied cohorts. 
 
The absolute bioavailability after the first and third subcutaneous administration ranged from 
45.8 to 98.4%, with median Tmax ranging between 24.2 to 48.1 hours. 
  After the 1 mg/kg weekly subcutaneous administration in Cohort 1 the mean (SD) AUC over 
the dosing interval (AUC) was 66034 (19241) and 40444 (N=1) U*h/L following the first and 
the third dose, respectively. 
  After the 2 mg/kg weekly subcutaneous administration in Cohort 2 the mean (SD) AUC was 
138595 (6958) and 136109 (41875) following the first and the third dose, respectively.   
Population pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic data from all asfotase alfa clinical trials were analysed using population PK methods.  
The pharmacokinetic variables characterized by population PK analysis represent the overall 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 34/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
hypophosphatasia patient population with age range from 1 day to 66 years and subcutaneous doses 
of up to 28 mg/kg/week. 
Based on the results of population pharmacokinetic analysis it was concluded that asfotase alfa exhibits 
linear pharmacokinetics up to subcutaneous doses of 28 mg/kg/week.  
The model identified body weight to affect asfotase alfa clearance and volume of distribution 
parameters.  It is expected that PK exposures will increase with body weight. 
The impact of immunogenicity on asfotase alfa PK overall was estimated to decrease PK exposures by 
less than 20%. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Asfotase alfa is an enzyme supplement therapy for the treatment of paediatric-onset 
hypophosphatasia. Deficiency in tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase activity leads to raised blood 
concentrations of substrates such as inorganic pyrophosphate and pyridoxal-5’-phosphate. 
Asfotase alfa is a human recombinant tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase-Fc-deca-aspartate fusion 
protein. It is a soluble glycoprotein of 726 amino acids made from the catalytic domain of human 
tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase, the human immunoglobulin G1 Fc domain (to facilitate 
purification) and a deca-aspartate peptide domain. 
Administration of asfotase alfa to patients with paediatric-onset hypophosphatasia is proposed to 
promote bone mineralization and so improve skeletal structure. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics were evaluated in the following clinical studies: 
Study 06-09/08-10 
Study 06-09/08-10 was an open-label, non-randomised study. 13 patients were enrolled and 12 
patients are on-going in the study. 5 patients presented with hypophosphatasia at under 6 months age 
and 8 patients presented between 6 months and 18yrs age. Age at inclusion in the study was between 
5 and 12 years old. The study employed historical controls from the same centre as patients who 
received asfotase alfa and who had been subject to a similar protocol of clinical management. 
The effects of asfotase alfa on x-ray appearance 
Trained radiologists evaluated pre- and post-baseline x-rays of wrists and knees of patients for the 
following signs: apparent physeal widening, metaphyseal flaring, irregularity of provisional zone of 
calcification, metaphyseal radiolucencies, metadiaphyseal sclerosis, osteopenia, ‘popcorn’ calcification 
in metadiaphysis, demineralization of distal metaphysis, transverse subphyseal band of lucency and 
tongues of radiolucency. X-ray changes from baseline were then rated using the Radiographic Global 
Impression of Change rating scale as follows: -3=severe worsening, -2=moderate worsening, -
1=minimal worsening, 0=no change, +1=minimal healing, +2=substantial healing, +3= near-
complete or complete healing. Patients who received asfotase alfa moved to scores of +2 and +3 over 
the first 6 months of exposure and this was sustained with on-going treatment. Historical controls did 
not show change over time. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 35/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Bone biopsy 
Tetracycline for bone-labelling was administered in two 3-day courses (separated by a 14-day interval) 
prior to acquisition of the bone biopsy. Trans-iliac crest bone biopsies were obtained by standard 
procedure. Histological analysis of biopsies used Osteomeasure software (Osteometrics, USA). 
Nomenclature, symbols and units followed recommendations of the American Society for Bone and 
Mineral Research. For 10 patients in the per-protocol set (excludes those patients who received oral 
vitamin D between baseline and week 24) who underwent biopsy of the trans-iliac bone crest before 
and after receiving asfotase alfa: 
• 
• 
• 
Mean (SD) osteoid thickness was 12.8(3.5)µm at baseline and 9.5(5.1)µm at week 24 
Mean (SD) osteoid volume / bone volume was 11.8(5.9)% at baseline and 8.6(7.2)% at week 24 
Mean (SD) mineralisation lag-time was 93 (70) days at baseline and 119 (225) days at week 24 
Growth 
Height, weight and head circumference were plotted on growth charts (series of percentile curves that 
illustrate distribution) available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USA. These 
reference data were drawn from a representative sample of healthy children and are not specific for 
children with special health care needs: they have been used in the absence of growth charts for 
children with hypophosphatasia. 
For those patients who received asfotase alfa: 9/13 patients displayed persistent apparent catch-up 
height-gain as shown by movement over time to a higher percentile on CDC growth charts. 3/13 
patients did not display apparent catch-up height-gain and 1 patient did not have enough data to 
permit judgement. Progress through Tanner stages appeared appropriate. 
For the time period of observation of historical controls: 1/16 patients displayed apparent catch-up 
height-gain, 12/16 patients did not display apparent catch-up height-gain and data were inconclusive 
in 3/16 patients. 
Study 02-08/03-08  
Study 02-08/03-08 was an open-label, non-randomised, non-controlled study. 11 patients were 
enrolled and 9 patients are on-going in the study. Onset of hypophosphatasia was under 6 months in 
all patients. Age at inclusion in the study was between 0.5 to 35 months. 
The effects of asfotase alfa on x-ray appearance 
7/11 patients in the full analysis set achieved Radiographic Global Impression of Change scores of +2 
at Week 24 compared to baseline radiographs. 
Growth 
5/11 subjects displayed apparent catch-up height-gain. Fluctuation in height-gain was apparent and 
may reflect the more severe disease and higher rate of morbidity in these younger patients. 
Study 09-10 
Study 09-10 was an open-label, randomised study. 19 patients were enrolled and 18 patients are on-
going in the study. Onset of hypophosphatasia was under 6 months in 16 patients, between 6 months 
and 18yrs in 4 patients and over 18yrs in 2 patients. Age of onset was not known for 1 patient. Age at 
inclusion was from 13 to 66yrs. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 36/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Growth 
The adolescent (and adult) patients in this study did not display apparent height-gain. 
Bone biopsy 
Patients underwent biopsy of the trans-iliac bone crest either as part of a control group or before and 
after exposure to asfotase alfa: 
Control group 
0.3mg/kg/day 
0.5mg/kg/day 
5 evaluable patients 
asfotase alfa group 
asfotase alfa group 
4 evaluable patients 
5 evaluable patients 
baseline 
Week 24 
baseline 
Week 48 
baseline 
Week 48 
Osteoid thickness 
13µm 
11.9µm 
7.6µm 
8.5µm 
7.1µm 
6.3µm 
mean (SD) 
(1.6) 
(7.6) 
(2.2) 
(4.1) 
(2.5) 
(2.0) 
Osteoid volume per 
11.1% 
11.6% 
6.6% 
8.9% 
5.3% 
3.2% 
bone volume 
mean (SD) 
(5.0) 
(8.7) 
(3.7) 
(3.3) 
(2.0) 
(1.9) 
Mineralisation lag-time  
226 (248) 
304 (211) 
1236 
328 (200) 
257 (146) 
130 (142) 
mean (SD) 
days 
days 
(1468) 
days 
days 
days8 
days 
 
For the 9 evaluable patients who received asfotase alfa, mean (SD) mineralisation lag-time 
was 692 (1041) days at baseline and 218 (189) days at week 48 
Modelling exercise 
Clinical pharmacology data (pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic and immunogenicity data) collected 
up to 28th Jan 2013 were analysed.  
The final Pop-PK model analysed the iv and s/c data simultaneously producing a final pharmacokinetic 
model with first-order absorption following s/c administration and a two-compartment disposition with 
elimination from the central compartment. 
Dose proportionality was inferred up to the studied s/c dose of 28.0 mg/kg/wk based on the Pop-PK 
model analysis. 
Covariate Effects 
The model was used to investigate effects of (i) formulation factors on bioavailability, (ii) demographics 
on clearance and volume of distribution and (iii) immunogenicity effects on clearance. 
A model-based assessment of the impact of assay on estimated Pop- PK model parameters was made. 
The model shows minimum impact of assay in all cases. 
Monte Carlo simulations using final Pop-PK model and variable estimates were conducted to evaluate 
the covariate effects on asfotase alfa PK. Simulations by varying parameters such as batch size, 
immunogenicity and body weight content were carried out. Covariates such as age, sex, renal function 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 37/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
and liver function tests (AST and ALT) along with bioanalytical method for measuring PK of asfotase 
alfa as activity were not found to be significant. 
Population-pharmacokinetic and pooled pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analyses were conducted 
to characterise independent exposure vs. response relationships for change in biomarkers such as 
plasma pyridoxal phosphate and inorganic pyrophosphate, radiologic pharmacodynamic endpoints such 
as the Radiographic Global Impression of Change, Rickets Severity Scale and functional efficacy 
endpoints such as the Bruininks-Oserestsky Test of Motor Proficiency and the 6-minute walk test. 
An evaluation of population exposure-response relationships for the adverse events of ectopic 
calcification, injection / infusion associated reactions and injection site reaction events during the 
entire treatment duration for all studies in the PK-PD analysis data set. 552 events occurred across the 
3 endpoints. 
Given the subject specific Cavg over the entire study, rate of adverse event incidence (number of 
events/time) vs. quartiles of exposure were constructed. When viewed as a function of exposure 
quartiles, adverse event summaries revealed no dependence on exposure. 
Justification of product specifications 
One of the product specifications for the manufacture of asfotase alfa that impact the exposure - 
response relationship are specific activity (U/mg, drug potency). 
Based on a covariate sensitivity analysis performed using the developed Pop-PK  one parameter was 
identified as having a impact on exposure in hypophosphatasia patients. 
Since this parameter and specific activity differs from lot to lot within the set formulation specifications, 
a model based simulation analysis was conducted to assess the magnitude of pharmacokinetic 
exposure changes and its subsequent impact on efficacy as a result of formulation factors. 
From the modelling exercise: 
 
The to-be-marketed product’s CMC specification should provide sufficient exposure at 6 
mg/kg/week dose to see efficacy 
 
The maximum exposure of ~4000 U/L predicted using the maximum specific activity values 
specified for the to-be-marketed product’s CMC specification is well below the >5000 U/L 
exposure resulting from the NOAEL dose from the 26 week GLP toxicology study in monkey. 
The specifications proposed were questioned, as there was a limited number of subjects who achieved 
drug exposures represented by the upper limits.  Nevertheless, it is viewed as important to achieve 
sufficient drug exposure.  For this reason and because the proposed specification is supported by 
batches used in clinical studies, the specification is agreed.  To provide additional supportive data, the 
Applicant will record batch numbers in the planned study ALX-HPP-501 (registry).  
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
It is acknowledged that hypophosphatasia is a rare condition and that the company has had a limited 
pool of patients upon which to conduct studies of clinical pharmacology. 
Overall, pharmacokinetic characteristics of asfotase alfa presented do not give rise to concerns.  
The modelling exercise carried out by the company supports a drug exposure of 6mg/kg/week for 
clinical efficacy. Higher exposures were likely to be associated with the clinical safety issue of ectopic 
calcification. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 38/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The pharmacodynamic results suggest that exposure to asfotase alfa results in improvement of x-ray 
appearances of wrists and knees associated with a reduced mineralisation time-lag on bone biopsy. 
Many patients display apparent catch-up height-gain.  
There is considered to be a differential pharmacodynamics response to exposure to asfotase alfa. Thus, 
patients with long-standing hypophosphatasia have osteoarthritis superimposed on the underlying 
osteomalacia condition. The physes are "closed" and so metaphyseal changes are absent or minimal. 
For these reasons, it is considered that the RGI-C score will be confounded in adults with 
hypophosphatasia i.e. the RGI-C score is not informative in the adult population. Interpretation of bone 
biopsy in an adult population with hypophosphatasia may be hampered by previous exposure to 
medications such as bisphosphonates and by co-existing morbidities that have been acquired during 
life and that affect bone histology. There may be large error from one biopsy to the next in the same 
person. Change in bone architecture may take years to achieve, not weeks. Further, the natural history 
of bone histology in patients with hypophosphatasia has not been established (and may be different to 
those with vitamin D sensitive osteomalacia). It may be considered that the more informative 
measurement in the adult population is mineralisation lag time because the measurement is a dynamic 
measure of cellular activity and does not require conversion to a 3-dimensional unit (i.e. it is not 
needed to assume isotropy of the iliac bone crest). 
Data on blood concentrations of pyridoxal phosphate and inorganic pyrophosphate, the Rickets 
Severity Scale, the Bruininks-Oserestsky Test of Motor Proficiency and the 6-minute walk test were 
provided by the company: However, the data were found to not meet standards required to make 
claims on clinical efficacy, and were therefore considered as supportive only by CHMP. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Overall, results of the clinical pharmacology exercise did not show any particular concerns, and were 
found to be acceptable by CHMP. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
The clinical studies in the asfotase alfa development program include: 
 
Pivotal (according to the company) open-label studies include ENB-002-08 and its extension, 
ENB-003-08 (ongoing); ENB-010-10 (ongoing); and ENB-006-09 and its extension ENB-008-10 
(ongoing). 
  A controlled, open-label supportive study ENB-009-10 (ongoing). 
  A retrospective, non-interventional, epidemiological study ENB-011-10 (complete). 
  Additional studies include ENB-001-08, a short-term 30-day safety & tolerability and PK study 
(complete). 
The overall analysis set included a total of 71 patients who were treated with asfotase alfa (68 with 
paediatric-onset hypophosphatasia [48 with perinatal/infantile-onset hypophosphatasia, 20 with 
juvenile-onset hypophosphatasia], 2 with adult-onset, and 1 patient with an unknown form of 
hypophosphatasia). 
Patients ranged from 1 day to 66 years of age at initiation of treatment. For integrated efficacy 
analyses by age of hypophosphatasia onset, the population included 44 patients with 
perinatal/infantile-onset hypophosphatasia and 8 patients with juvenile-onset hypophosphatasia. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 39/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Untreated historical controls were used for evaluating selected endpoints in studies ENB-002-08/ENB-
003-08, ENB-010-10, and ENB-006-09. 
2.5.1.  Main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Main studies ENB-006-09 / ENB-008-10 
  Table A: Summary of efficacy for trial ENB-006-09 / ENB-008-10 
Title: A Randomised, Open-Label, Multicentre, Multinational, Dose-Ranging, Historical Control Study 
of the Safety, Efficacy, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of ENB-0040 (Human Recombinant 
Tissue-Nonspecific Alkaline Phosphatase Fusion Protein) in Children with Hypophosphatasia (HPP) 
Study identifier 
ENB-006-09 
. 
. 
Extension study title: Extension Study of Protocol ENB-006-09 Evaluating the Long-Term Safety 
and Efficacy of ENB-0040 (Human Recombinant Tissue-Nonspecific Alkaline Phosphatase Fusion 
Protein) in Children with Hypophosphatasia (HPP) 
Extension study 
ENB-008-10 
identifier 
. 
Design 
The extension study is on-going 
. 
a randomised, open-label, multicentre, multinational, dose-ranging study 
using historical controls. 
The open-label extension study ENB-008-10 used a fixed dose. 
Duration of main phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  On-going 
Hypothesis 
That exposure to asfotase alfa will improve the skeletal manifestations of 
hypophosphatasia as compared to historical controls. A phase 2 study 
The ages of patients ranged from 5 to 12yrs. 
Treatments groups 
Study ENB-006-09 
13 patients were randomised to asfotase alfa 
treatment in ENB-006-09 at a dose of either 
2 mg/kg 3 times a week (n=6) or 3 mg/kg 3 
times a week (n=7). 
Study ENB-008-10 
(extension study) 
Patients initially received a total of 3 
mg/kg/week of asfotase alfa. 
Upon analysis of emerging data, the dose of 
asfotase alfa was increased to 6 mg/kg/week. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 40/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Historical control group 
16 historical control patients. These patients 
are in the Full Analysis set for skeletal 
radiographic assessments. 
Endpoints and 
Main efficacy 
RGI-C 
Changes in rickets severity from Baseline to 
definitions 
evaluation 
Week 24, based on skeletal radiographs 
measured by the Radiographic Global 
Impression of Change (a company-produced 
rating scale). Radiographs were assessed by 
3 separate readers. 
Other 
. 
Changes in bone mineralization assessed by 
evaluations 
DEXA and bone biopsy, growth 
measurements, walking ability, muscle 
strength, motor function, pain and disability 
over time and forced vital capacity by 
pulmonary function tests. The Rickets 
Severity Score was recorded. 
Analysis Cut-off Date  22nd January 2013 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population  
Full analysis set 
Descriptive statistics  
Treatment group  ENB-006-09 
ENB-008-10 
Historical control 
Number of 
subjects 
13 
(extension 
group 
study) 
12 
16 
RGI-C 
Radiographic Global Impression of Change rating 
scale 
X-ray changes at wrists and knees from baseline were 
rated using the Radiographic Global Impression of 
Change rating scale as follows: -3=severe worsening, -
2=moderate worsening, -1=minimal worsening, 0=no 
change, +1=minimal healing, +2=substantial healing, 
+3= near-complete or complete healing. 
Patients who received asfotase alfa moved to scores of 
+2 and +3 over the first 6 months of exposure and this 
was sustained with on-going treatment. Historical 
controls did not show change over time. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 41/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis description 
Other analysis 
Biopsy of trans-iliac crest bone 
For 10 patients in the per-protocol set (excludes those patients who 
received oral vitamin D between baseline and week 24) who underwent 
biopsy of the trans-iliac bone crest: 
• 
Mean (SD) osteoid thickness was 12.8(3.5)µm at baseline and 
9.5(5.1)µm at week 24 
• 
Mean (SD) osteoid volume / bone volume was 11.8(5.9)% at 
baseline and 8.6(7.2)% at week 24 
• 
Mean (SD) mineralisation lag-time was 93 (70) days at baseline and 
119 (225) days at week 24 
Growth 
For those patients who received asfotase alfa: 9/13 patients displayed 
persistent apparent catch-up height-gain as shown by movement over time 
to a higher percentile on CDC growth charts. 3/13 patients did not display 
apparent catch-up height-gain and 1 patient did not have enough data to 
permit judgement. Progress through Tanner stages appeared appropriate. 
For the time period of observation of historical controls: 1/16 patients 
displayed apparent catch-up height-gain, 12/16 patients did not display 
apparent catch-up height-gain and data were inconclusive in 3/16 patients. 
In addition: 
Changes in bone mineralization assessed by DEXA, the Rickets Severity 
Score and results of tests of quality of life / physical activity are considered 
to be generally supportive. 
Supportive studies ENB-002-08 / ENB-003-08, ENB-009-10, ENB-010-10, ENB-011-10 
Table B. Summary of efficacy for trial ENB-002-08 / ENB-003-08 
Title: A multicenter, open-label study of the safety, tolerability, and pharmacology of ENB-0040 
(Enobia’s human recombinant tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase fusion protein) in up to 10 
severely affected patients with infantile hypophosphatasia 
Study identifier 
ENB-002-08  
. 
. 
Extension study title: Extension study of ENB-0040 (human recombinant tissue-nonspecific alkaline 
phosphatase fusion protein) in severely affected infants and young children with hypophosphatasia 
Study identifier 
ENB-003-08 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 42/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. 
Design 
. 
an open-label, multi-centre, non-randomised, non-controlled multinational 
study 
Duration of main phase: 
6 months 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  Up to 60 months (study is on-going) 
Hypothesis 
That exposure to asfotase alfa will improve the skeletal manifestations of 
hypophosphatasia in patients with infantile onset. A phase 2 study. 
There were 11 subjects in study ENB-002-08 
The age of patients ranged from 2.9 to 158.1 weeks, onset of symptoms 
before 6 months age. 
Treatments 
Study ENB-02-08 
Patients received an initial single iv infusion 
of 2 mg/kg asfotase alfa followed 1 week 
later by regular administration of s/c 
injections of 1 mg/kg asfotase alfa 3 
times/week (total 3 mg/kg per week). 
Dose adjustments could be made for changes 
in weight and / or for safety concerns or for 
lack of efficacy. 
Study ENB-003-08 
The initial asfotase alfa dose was the same 
dose being administered at the patient’s 
Week 24 visit in Study ENB-002-08. Dose is 
adjusted for weight every 6 months. 
Endpoints and 
Main efficacy 
RGI-C 
Changes in rickets severity from Baseline to 
definitions 
evaluation 
Week 24, based on skeletal radiographs 
measured by the Radiographic Global 
Impression of Change (a company-produced 
rating scale). Radiographs were assessed by 
3 separate readers. 
Other 
.. 
Other assessments were of the Rickets 
evaluations 
Severity Score (a company-produced rating 
scale), growth, tests / questionnaires of 
physical ability, assessment of respiratory 
support and overall survival. 
.. 
.. 
.. 
Analysis Cut-off Date  16th November 2012 
Results and Analysis  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 43/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population  
Full analysis set 
Descriptive statistics   Number of subjects 
11 in study ENB-002-08  
RGI-C 
10 in extension study ENB-003-08 
7/11 patients in the full analysis set 
achieved Radiographic Global 
Impression of Change scores of +2 
at Week 24 compared to baseline 
radiographs. 
Analysis description  Other analyses 
Growth 
5/11 subjects displayed apparent catch-up height-gain 
In addition: 
Other analyses of overall survival, need for respiratory support and results 
of tests of quality of life / physical activity are considered to be generally 
supportive. 
Table C. Summary of efficacy for trial ENB-009-10 
Title: A randomised, open-label, multicentre, multinational, dose-ranging, concurrent control study 
of the safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of ENB-0040 (Human Recombinant Tissue-Nonspecific 
Alkaline Phosphatase Fusion Protein) in adolescents and adults with Hypophosphatasia 
Study identifier 
ENB-009-10 
Design 
randomised, open-label, concurrent control, multi-centre, multinational 
study. 
Duration of main phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  On-going 
Hypothesis 
That exposure of patients to asfotase alfa will reduce plasma concentrations 
of inorganic pyrophosphate and pryidoxal phosphate 
Treatments groups 
Patient age ranged from 13 to 66 years 
22 patients were planned, 19 have enrolled 
Group 1 
Group 2 
Asfotase alfa 2.1mg/kg/week for 24 weeks 
Asfotase alfa 3.5mg/kg/week for 24 weeks 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 44/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concurrent control 
24 weeks 
Upon completion of the 24-week primary treatment period, all patients were 
eligible to continue in the open-label Extension Treatment Period of this 
study. 
Amendment 5 (20th October 2011) increased the permitted dosage to 
6mg/kg/week after the first 6 months of the extension period. 
The study is on-going. 
Endpoints and 
Co-primary evaluation 
Reduction in plasma concentrations of 
definitions 
inorganic pyrophosphate and pryidoxal 
phosphate 
Secondary evaluations 
Change in osteoid content of bone biopsy, 
change in bone mineral content as measured 
by DEXA, change in walking distance over 6 
minutes. 
Analysis Cut-off Date  29th January 2013 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population  
Full analysis set 
Descriptive statistics  
Treatment group  Group 1 
Group 2 
concurrent 
control 
Number of 
subjects 
6 
7 
6 
plasma 
Data submitted by the company do not convince of 
concentrations of 
significant reductions in plasma concentrations of either 
inorganic 
inorganic pyrophosphate or pryidoxal phosphate 
pyrophosphate 
and pryidoxal 
phosphate 
Analysis description  Other analyses 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 45/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biopsy of trans-iliac crest bone 
Patients underwent biopsy of the trans-iliac bone crest either as part of a 
control group or before and after exposure to asfotase alfa: 
  Control group, standard of care (5 evaluable patients): mean (SD) 
mineralisation lag-time was 226 (248) days at baseline and 304 
(211) days at week 24 
  0.3mg/kg/week asfotase alfa group (4 evaluable patients): mean 
(SD) mineralisation lag-time was 1236 (1468) days at baseline and 
328 (200) days at week 48 
  0.5mg/kg/week asfotase alfa group (5 evaluable patients): mean 
(SD) mineralisation lag-time was 257 (146) days at baseline and 
130 (142) days at week 48 
In addition: 
Data submitted by the company for DEXA scans are inconclusive. 
Data submitted by the company do not convince of significant changes in 
walking distance over 6 minutes. 
Table D. Summary of efficacy for trial ENB-010-10 
Title: An Open-Label, Multicenter, Multinational Study of the Safety, Efficacy, and Pharmacokinetics 
of Asfotase Alfa (human recombinant tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase fusion protein) in 
Infants and Children ≤5 Years of Age with Hypophosphatasia 
Study identifier 
ENB-010-10 
Design 
a non-randomised, open-label, multicentre, multinational study 
28 patients reported (60 planned, study is on-going). 
A study of children ≤5yrs age. 
Duration of main phase: 
24 weeks 
An interim report is submitted for subjects 
who have completed 3 months. 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 46/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
That exposure to asfotase alfa will improve the skeletal manifestations of 
hypophosphatasia in patients with infantile onset. A phase 2 study. 
Treatment 
6 mg/kg/week of asfotase alfa given s/c  
Endpoints and 
Main efficacy evaluation 
Changes in rickets severity from Baseline to 
definitions 
Week 24, based on skeletal radiographs 
measured by the Radiographic Global 
Impression of Change (RGI-C, a company-
produced rating scale). Radiographs were 
assessed by 3 separate readers. 
Secondary evaluations 
Rickets Severity Scale (a company-produced 
rating scale), overall survival, need for 
respiratory support, growth 
Analysis Cut-off Date  22nd November 2013 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Full Analysis Set 
Descriptive statistics   Number of subjects 
28 patients reported (60 planned). 
RGI-C 
At Week 24, 21/28 patients achieved 
Radiographic Global Impression of 
Change scores of 1 or greater. 
Analysis description  Other analyses 
Other analyses are considered to be generally supportive towards the main 
efficacy evaluation. 
Safety evaluations contributed towards understanding of product clinical 
safety. 
Table E. Summary of efficacy for trial ENB-011-10 
Title: A Retrospective, Non-Interventional Epidemiologic Study of the Natural History of Patients with 
Severe Perinatal and Infantile Hypophosphatasia 
Study identifier 
ENB-011-10 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 47/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design 
Multi-centre, multinational, retrospective, chart review study. 
127 subjects were identified, 48 patients were enrolled. 
Patients had presented with symptoms at <6 months age 
Endpoints  
Primary 
endpoint 
overall survival defined as time from birth to death 
Secondary 
invasive ventilator-free survival time 
endpoint 
First patient data abstracted 25th Sept 2012, last patient data abstracted 18th April 2013. 
Results 
Median overall survival = 270.5 days 
Median invasive ventilator free survival = 236 days 
. 
Comparative survival analysis: data collected 
Advances in supportive clinical care and 
from ENB-011-10 served as the non-concurrent 
technologies (in particular for respiratory 
control group for the combined analysis of 
support) prevent acceptance of claims made by 
patients from study ENB-002-08 and its 
the company on the basis of the submitted 
extension study ENB-003-08 and study ENB-010-
historical comparison. 
10 that matched the inclusion criteria for Study 
ENB-011-10. 
25 patients from studies ENB-002-08/ENB-003-
those subjects exposed to Strensiq in the clinical 
08 and ENB-010-10 met inclusion criteria. 
studies submitted by the company. 
Data of clinical safety of study 11-10 have 
contributed towards analysis of adverse events in 
Data cutoff for studies ENB-002-08/ENB-003-08 
and ENB-010-10 was November 2012. 
A comparison of overall survival and invasive-
ventilator-free survival is made 
2.5.2.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
  Design and conduct of clinical studies 
71 patients with hypophosphatasia have taken part in the following clinical studies submitted by the 
company: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 48/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pivotal (according to the company) open-label studies include ENB-002-08 and its extension, 
ENB-003-08 (ongoing); ENB-010-10 (ongoing); and ENB-006-09 and its extension ENB-008-10 
(ongoing). 
  A controlled, open-label supportive study ENB-009-10 (ongoing). 
  A retrospective, non-interventional, epidemiological study ENB-011-10 (complete). 
  Additional studies include ENB-001-08, a short-term 30-day safety & tolerability and PK study 
(complete). 
The company’s pivotal studies are described as “phase 2” and are open-label, non-controlled, non-
randomised. The rationale put forward for study design is that hypophosphatasia: 
 
 
 
 
 
is rare 
has high unmet medical need 
is associated with serious morbidity and mortality risk 
bears potential for irrevocable harm 
does not have any alternative treatments 
CHMP acknowledged that the prevalence of the severe forms of hypophosphatasia is low (about 
1/100,000) although in some communities the severe form occurs more frequently such as the 
Mennonite population in Canada where the prevalence of the severe forms in newborn infants is 
(about) 1/2,500 (Mornet E. Hypophosphatasia. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2007;2:40-7). Many of the 
participants in the studies submitted by the company were from the Manitoba region in Canada and it 
is presumed that they came from the local Mennonite community. 
The prevalence of the less severe or moderate forms of hypophosphatasia is not established but has 
been estimated to be (about) 1/5000 in the European population (Mornet E et al. A molecular-based 
estimation of the prevalence of hypophosphatasia in the European population. Ann Hum Genet. 
2011;75:439-45). The prevalence is likely to be higher in the Mennonite community where all forms 
are known to be over-represented. 
It has been noted that, during the course of clinical studies, the main objectives were variously 
changed with regard to the primary endpoint, and how the primary endpoint was interpreted. In 
addition, based on the basis of emerging data, changes were made to the dosage of study drug and 
the inclusion / exclusion criteria of study subjects. For these reasons, cautious interpretation of data 
submitted is required. 
Interpretation of submitted data was further hampered by use of baseline-comparison (in the absence 
of a suitable control group). Only one study (study 09-10) has had a concurrent control albeit non-
treated as opposed to placebo. There was concern that the open-label, non-controlled, non-
randomised, baseline-comparison nature of the studies is associated with high bias towards favouring 
the study drug. There were additional concerns that (i) studies have been carried out with the 
presumption of therapeutic competence and that (ii) studies have employed an ambitious array of test 
strategies. Therefore it would have been preferred if study designs had been concurrent, blinded, 
randomised controls and had been focussed on only a few significant outcomes of interest. 
The use of historical control data in study 11-10 was considered generally supportive for the purposes 
of illustration but it was considered that improvements in supportive care and technologies (especially 
those of respiratory support) hamper comparison with clinical efficacy data generated by the studies 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 49/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
submitted by the company (information from study 11-10 has informed assessment of adverse events 
occurring in response to exposure to asfotase alfa). The company has observed that some subjects 
exposed to Strensiq in studies 02-08/03-08 and 10-10 were successfully weaned off ventilation (when 
ventilation has been needed): a comparison has been made with the natural history of untreated 
subjects in study 11-10 where there was a high mortality if ventilation was clinically required, however 
this comparison exercise must be interpreted with caution because of the potential of bias and 
confounding elements to interfere. 
The above discussion is informed by: 
ICH E8 General Considerations for Clinical Trials, CPMP/ICH/291/95, March 1998 
ICH E9 Statistical Principles for Clinical Trials, CPMP/ICH/363/96, September 1998, January 2001 
ICH E10 Choice of Control Group and Related Issues in Clinical Trials, CPMP/ICH/364/96, January 2001 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The patient population studied is acceptable as representative of subjects with hypophosphatasia. The 
main clinical efficacy outcomes submitted by the company are (i) the Radiographic Clinical Impression 
of Change, a technique to assess change in x-ray appearance over time, (ii) growth as assessed by 
serial measurements of height, weight and head circumference and (iii) change over time in bone 
histology.  
The Radiographic Clinical Impression of Change tool 
Trained radiologists evaluated pre- and post-baseline x-rays of wrists and knees of patients for the 
following signs: apparent physeal widening, metaphyseal flaring, irregularity of provisional zone of 
calcification, metaphyseal radiolucencies, metadiaphyseal sclerosis, osteopenia, ‘popcorn’ calcification 
in metadiaphysis, demineralization of distal metaphysis, transverse subphyseal band of lucency and 
tongues of radiolucency. X-ray changes from baseline were then rated using the Radiographic Global 
Impression of Change (RGI-C) rating scale as follows: -3=severe worsening, -2=moderate worsening, 
-1=minimal worsening, 0=no change, +1=minimal healing, +2=substantial healing, +3= near-
complete or complete healing.  
Study 06-09/08-10 
Study 06-09/08-10 is considered to be the most informative study. This was an open-label study of 24 
weeks duration with an on-going extension. 13 patients aged 5 to 12yrs were enrolled and, on the 
basis of emerging data, were exposed to 6mg/kg/week study drug. This study also enrolled 16 
historical controls.  
The use of historical controls within study 06-09/08-10 has been accepted in the analysis of the 
Radiographic Clinical Impression of Change tool and in growth measurement on the grounds that: 
  Historical patient have received precisely defined standard treatment that is the same for the 
trial patients 
 
The method of treatment evaluation is the same 
  Historical patient characteristics are sufficiently comparable to the trial patients 
  Management has been done by same organisation and (largely the) same investigators 
  No other issues making one expect differing results compared to current trial group are 
apparent at this time. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 50/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Regarding use of historical controls in study 06-09/08-10, the company has submitted a statement 
signed and dated by the main investigator physician that patients have been subject to the same core 
protocol in place at the one institution over the last (about) 30yrs. 
X-ray appearances of wrists and knees assessed by the RGI-C tool 
Data for study 06-09 suggest that subjects display improvement in the x-ray appearances of wrists 
and knees (as assessed by the Radiographic Impression of Change tool). Patients who received 
asfotase alfa moved to scores of +2 and +3 over the first 6 months of exposure and this was sustained 
with on-going treatment. By contrast, a change in the RGI-C score over a comparable time period was 
not apparent in historical controls. 
Bone biopsies 
The following results were obtained for 10 patients in the per-protocol set (excludes those patients who 
received oral vitamin D between baseline and week 24) who underwent biopsy of the trans-iliac bone 
crest before and after receiving asfotase alfa: 
• 
• 
• 
Mean (SD) osteoid thickness was 12.8(3.5)µm at baseline and 9.5(5.1)µm at week 24 
Mean (SD) osteoid volume / bone volume was 11.8(5.9)% at baseline and 8.6(7.2)% at week 24 
Mean (SD) mineralisation lag-time was 93 (70) days at baseline and 119 (225) days at week 24 
Apparent “catch-up growth” in response to exposure to study drug 
For those patients who received asfotase alfa: 9/13 patients displayed persistent apparent catch-up 
height-gain as shown by movement over time to a higher percentile on CDC growth charts. 3/13 
patients did not display apparent catch-up height-gain and 1 patient did not have enough data to 
permit judgement. Progress through Tanner stages appeared appropriate. 
By contrast, for the time period of observation of historical controls: 1/16 patients displayed apparent 
catch-up height-gain, 12/16 patients did not display apparent catch-up height-gain and data were 
inconclusive in 3/16 patients. 
Studies 02-08/03-08 and 10/10 
The company has submitted the following observations on the need for ventilation support in studies 
02-08/03-08 and 10/10 (patients aged 0.1 to 270 weeks at baseline): 
21 patients required ventilation support: 
  14 patients required invasive ventilation support (intubation or tracheostomy) at baseline (one 
had a brief period of non-invasive ventilation at baseline before transfer). 
  7 patients were weaned off ventilation (time on ventilation from 24 to 168 weeks), all had 
achieved an RGI-C score ≥2 
  3 patients continued with ventilation support, RGI-C score ≤2 
  3 patients died whilst on ventilation support 
  1 patient withdrew consent 
  7 patients started non-invasive ventilation (BiPAP or CPAP) after baseline (2 patients required 
brief support with invasive ventilation). 
  5 patients were weaned off ventilation (time on ventilation from 4 weeks to 48 weeks) 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 51/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  2 patients died 
The natural history of untreated infant hypophosphatasia patients described in study 11-10 suggests a 
high mortality if ventilation is required. 
Study 09-10 
Results of clinical efficacy from study 09-10 are generally supportive though highlight that data are 
very limited in adult subjects. Further data on adult subjects will be generated by the applicant as a 
post-authorisation commitment. 
Further information from the studies 
Patients / parents / guardians report mainly positive effects on physical activity within the first 6 
months of exposure (with the caveat that there are concerns over the high potential for the open-label, 
non-controlled nature of the phase 2 studies submitted by the company to be associated with bias in 
favour of the current product). 
The company measured serum concentrations of inorganic pyrophosphate and pyridoxal phosphate in 
response to exposure to asfotase alfa, but due to issues with the collection and measurement of those 
data these could not be taken into account by CHMP.  
2.5.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
It is acknowledged that hypophosphatasia is a rare condition and that the company has had a limited 
pool of patients upon which to make claims of clinical efficacy.  
Hypophosphatasia is characterised by failure to mineralise bone. The Radiographic Global Impression 
of Change tool was developed to assess change over time in skeletal mineralization in patients with 
hypophosphatasia in response to asfotase alfa treatment and was chosen by the company as the 
primary endpoint for the main clinical studies of asfotase alfa in paediatric-onset hypophosphatasia. 
The tool was developed by an expert panel that identified the most important radiographic features for 
evaluating the skeletal manifestations of hypophosphatasia. The ability of the tool to assess 
mineralisation of bone would make it clinically relevant in the assessment of response of patients with 
hypophosphatasia to exposure to asfotase alfa. 
Validation of the Radiographic Global Impression of Change tool is considered to be an essential 
component of the current application. Thus: 
  Results obtained using the RGI-C tool have demonstrated an acceptable level of agreement in 
inter-rater and intra-rater scores. 
  Sensitivity to change of the Radiographic Global Impression of Change tool may be inferred 
(internal to the tool) from the pattern of response of subjects to Strensiq who move from a 
score of "0" to between "+2" and "+3" over the first 6 months of exposure and then fluctuate 
between "+2" and "+3" thereafter upon continued exposure. 
  Sensitivity to change of the Radiographic Global Impression of Change tool may be inferred 
(external to the tool) by the concomitant display of (i) apparent catch-up height gain and (ii) 
the apparent improvement in histological appearance of bone biopsies over the first 6 months 
of exposure. 
It is recognised that the company encountered difficulties conducting clinical studies on such a rare 
condition with multiple, serious morbidities that may blunt demonstration of clinical efficacy.  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 52/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The CHMP considered that with regard to 1) the improvement in x-ray appearance as assessed by the 
Radiographic Clinical Impression of Change tool, 2) the histological appearance of bone biopsy material 
and 3) the apparent catch-up height-gain demonstrated by patients, these clinical effects showed: 
Biological plausibility: supplementing a deficient enzyme that is involved in bone mineralisation is likely 
to lead to improved appearance of bone histology and improved x-ray appearances of bones and 
joints. It was therefore found to be plausible that there would be consequent gain in height and may 
have improved respiratory ability. 
Biological coherence: pre-clinical studies submitted by the company further supported the claims for 
clinical efficacy. 
A temporal relationship: the effects became evident subsequent to exposure and persisted with 
continuing exposure. 
Direction of effect: the changes in x-ray appearance and bone histology were in the direction 
anticipated. 
Consistency: the effects did occur in most (though not all) patients and were found in more than one 
study under similar circumstances. 
Specificity of outcome: it was not apparent that organs other than bone were affected. There may be 
an indirect effect on muscle strength but the studies (such as the 6-minute walk test) were not able to 
show this conclusively.  
The bulk of evidence submitted in support of clinical efficacy is in subjects under 13 yrs of age 
(between 0.5 months and 12 yrs of age at time of inclusion in the studies).  
The data for subjects between 13 to 18 yrs of age is very limited, and the applicant has not been able 
to provide a robust presentation of this population in its studies.  Therefore, the CHMP considered the 
following measure necessary to address the issue of limited efficacy data in this specific sub-population 
age-range: 
Extension of studies ENB-008-10 and ENB-009-10 is expected to provide more data (such as, but not 
limited to RGI-C scores, height and weight change, biomarkers measurement) in patients 13 to 18 
year-old of age, although data in this population will likely remain limited. 
The applicant should submit these data to the CHMP to substantiate evidence of efficacy in this age 
group no later than March 2017. 
Concerns over the limited amount of clinical data are particularly pronounced for subjects ≥18yrs. For 
treatment of patients ≥18 years, as key data on both optimal dose and schedule of administration in 
this specific patient sub-population are limited. Therefore, the CHMP considered the following measure 
necessary to address this issue: 
Multicentre, randomized, open-label, Phase 2a study of Strensiq in adult patients with 
hypophosphatasia (HPP) to:  
(i) evaluate pharmacokinetics (PK) of Strensiq in adults following administration of the dose advised in 
children;  
(ii) provide dose response data on plasma inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) and pyridoxal-5` -phosphate 
(PLP) and to explore evidence of clinical benefit. In order to ensure that the data are reliable, the MAH 
should submit a study protocol including acceptable techniques for blood collection, storage and assay 
for the PPi and PLP biomarkers, to be agreed by CHMP before the start of the study. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 53/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The applicant should submit these data to the CHMP no later than March 2017. 
The CHMP agreed with the applicant’s argumentation that the patient population of paediatric onset 
hypophosphatasia is encountered so rarely that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to 
provide comprehensive clinical data on the safety and efficacy of this medicinal product. The incidence 
of the most severe forms of the disease is very low and thought to be about 1:100,000 live births, 
although markedly higher in some small populations, and recently estimated to be approximately 
1:300,000 in Europe. As a consequence, the applicant will be obliged to set up a registry in order to 
provide, on an ongoing bases, further evidence as specific obligations relating in particular to efficacy 
and safety as follows: 
Observational, Longitudinal, Prospective, Long-Term Registry of Patients with HPP to collect 
information on the epidemiology of the disease, including clinical outcomes and quality of life, and to 
evaluate safety and effectiveness data in patients treated with Strensiq. Specifically, more information 
is to be collected on the variability, progression and natural history of the disease in all age groups, the 
disease burden, clinical outcomes, and quality of life, and to collect and evaluate safety and 
effectiveness data specific to the use of asfotase alfa. 
These specific obligations shall be reassessed annually.  
Based on 1) the improvement in x-ray appearance as assessed by the Radiographic Clinical Impression 
of Change tool, 2) the histological appearance of bone biopsy material and 3) the apparent catch-up 
height-gain demonstrated in some patients, CHMP considered, although the data is very limited, that 
the totality of evidence submitted supports a specific and limited claim for clinical efficacy. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The asfotase alfa clinical programme includes 7 ongoing or completed clinical studies of 71 patients as 
shown in the following diagram: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 54/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The safety data from ENB-001-08 study are presented separately (4 patients of study ENB-001-08 
were enrolled in study ENB-009-10 and so contribute towards the Pooled Safety Set). 
Additionally, 11 patients have been treated under compassionate use programmes. 
The 71 patients make up the Pooled Safety Set. Evaluable patients (those who received at least 1 dose 
of asfotase alfa) were pooled across studies and then grouped according to age at onset of first signs 
and / or symptoms of hypophosphatasia as shown in the following table: 
Demographics 
Pooled Safety Set  
Demographics for the Pooled Safety Set overall and by age at disease onset are summarised in the 
following table: 
There were 34 (47.9%) males and 37 (52.1%) females. Most patients were White (61 patients; 
85.9%), 2 (2.8%) patients were Hispanic or Latino and there were 6 (8.5%) Asian patients.  
The median age at the time of the first dose was 5.17 years 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 55/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ENB-001-08 
The 6 patients who enrolled in Study ENB-001-08 were 24 to 58 years of age. All patients (2 male and 
4 female) were Caucasian. 
Cohort 1 (1 mg/kg/wk s/c): mean and median age of patients was 40 and 38 years, respectively. 
Cohort 2 (2 mg/kg/wk s/c): mean and median age of patients was 50 and 52 years, respectively. 
Baseline Disease Characteristics 
[Baseline disease characteristics were not collected in Studies ENB-002-08/ENB-003-08]. 
Medical / surgical histories reported for patients included in the integrated safety analyses were 
consistent with the manifestations and complications of hypophosphatasia and reflected the spectrum 
of comorbidities seen in patients with this disease. 
The more commonly reported medical / surgical histories reported included: 
 
 
 
skeletal deformities e.g. craniosynostosis, limb asymmetry, deformed thorax, talipes 
fractures and treatment for fractures, internal fixation 
developmental and neurological conditions e.g. developmental delay, failure to thrive, gross 
motor delay, speech disorder, convulsion 
  musculo-skeletal conditions e.g. gait disturbance, arthralgia, arthritis, muscular weakness, 
myalgia, bone pain, use of orthosis, hypotonia, hypermobility, rickets 
  Dental conditions e.g. dental caries, tooth development disorder, tooth loss, endodontic 
procedure, tooth abscess 
  Gastrointestinal events and conditions e.g. constipation, gastro-oesophageal reflux disease, 
dysphagia 
  Renal conditions e.g. nephrocalcinosis, renal failure, nephrolithiasis 
  Abnormal clinical laboratory values e.g. anaemia, blood calcium abnormal, blood calcium 
increased, blood phosphorus increased, hypokalaemia 
Other conditions noted in the overall medical history included dyspnoea, pneumonia, chronic sinusitis, 
hypertension, hypothyroidism, seasonal allergy, hypersensitivity, depression and anxiety, history of 
respiratory compromise, the need for respiratory support and vitamin B6-responsive seizures. 
At Baseline, mean and median alkaline phosphatase activities were below the lower limit of normal, 
mean and median inorganic pyrophosphate concentrations tended to be towards the upper limits of 
normal, mean and median pyridoxal phosphate concentrations were highly variable and towards the 
upper limits of normal and mean and median parathyroid hormone concentrations were variable. 
The age at onset of the first symptoms of hypophosphatasia, age when the first fracture occurred and 
the number of fractures per patient are presented in the following table: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 56/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
47 (66.2%) patients in the Pooled Safety Set reported taking medications between the time their 
informed consent was signed and the administration of the first dose of asfotase alfa. 
In general, prior medications taken by patients in the Pooled Safety Set were unremarkable and 
reflected those substances that would be taken for pain management (eg opioids, analgesics), 
neurologic disorders (eg antiepileptics) and procedures related to the management or assessment of 
hypophosphatasia (eg anaesthetics, iv solutions, tetracycline [for bone labelling]). 
Patient exposure 
71 patients were in the Pooled Safety Set and 64 of these are involved in on-going studies. 
A summary of exposure (overall and by age of onset) is shown in the following table: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 57/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure to asfotase alfa ranged from 0.1 to 260.9 weeks with a median exposure for all patients of 
2.53 patient-years. 49/71 patients were exposed for ≥96 weeks. 
The following table provides a summary of the patient years of asfotase alfa exposure by total weekly 
dose: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 58/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
There has been a total of 169.17 patient years of asfotase alfa exposure. 
155.64 patient years of asfotase alfa exposure were in patients who received weekly doses <9 mg/kg.  
Most asfotase alfa exposure experience was at total weekly doses ≥3 mg/kg and <9 mg/kg per week 
(147.40 patient years, mainly arising from those studies where patients received 3mg/kg/week for the 
first 24 weeks before increasing to 6mg/kg/week).  
Exposure at higher weekly doses has been limited, with about 13.5 patient years exposure at total 
weekly doses ≥9 mg/kg, and <6 patient years exposure at total weekly doses ≥12 mg/kg. Treatment 
at higher total weekly doses primarily occurred in the infantile-onset hypophosphatasia subgroup. 
Adverse events 
Investigators were instructed to monitor patients for potential signs of asfotase alfa-related reactions, 
both systemic and localised. Clinical studies also included routine renal ultrasounds and eye 
examinations, including fundoscopy, to monitor for ectopic calcification. 
2706 treatment-emergent adverse events were reported for the 71 patients included in the integrated 
safety analyses, as summarised in the following table: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 59/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Treatment-emergent adverse events observed were largely consistent with the manifestations and 
complications of underlying hypophosphatasia or were injection-related reactions. Treatment-emergent 
adverse events reported by ≥25% of patients in the integrated safety analyses) included: 
 
Injection site erythema (53.5%) 
  Upper respiratory tract infection (39.4%) 
 
 
Pyrexia (29.6%) 
Pain in extremity (28.2%) 
  Vomiting (26.8%) 
Related to Asfotase Alfa 
Pooled Safety Set 
A summary of the most frequently reported (in ≥3 patients in the Pooled Safety Set) treatment 
emergent adverse events considered by the Investigator to be related to asfotase alfa treatment is 
provided in the following table: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 60/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Of the 2706 treatment emergent adverse events reported for the 71 patient included in the integrated 
safety analyses, there were 906 treatment emergent adverse events experienced by 60 (84.5%) 
patients assessed as related to asfotase alfa by the Investigator. The most common were localised 
injection site reactions. 
When injection site reactions were excluded from the analysis, there were a total of 50 treatment 
emergent adverse events assessed as treatment-related experienced by 29 (40.8%) patients. Events 
among these (reported by ≥3 patients) included: 
  Deposit eye (7 patients; 9.9%) 
  Conjunctival deposit (6 patients; 8.5%) 
  Nephrolithiasis (3 patients; 4.2%) 
 
Pain in extremity (3 patients; 4.2%) 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 61/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Although assessed as asfotase alfa treatment related, deposit eye, conjunctival deposit and 
nephrolithiasis are known features of hypophosphatasia. 
Adverse events of special interest 
Injection site reactions and lipohypertrophy 
Most injection-site reactions were mild and self-limiting and none was assessed as serious. 
Events reported included pyrexia (5.6%), injection site erythema (5.6%), chills (4.2%), irritability 
(4.2%) and vomiting (4.2%). 
Cases of anaphylaxis were not identified. 
Two patients experienced injection-site reactions that led to asfotase alfa dose reduction. 
There were 12 treatment-emergent adverse events of lipohypertrophy experienced by 5 patients, 
mostly at injection sites on the arm and abdomen, and were all assessed as non-serious and mild or 
moderate in intensity by the Investigator. Analysis by age at first dose of asfotase alfa revealed 
lipohypertrophy was generally reported in patients 5 to 17 years of age. 
One patient who experienced multiple injection-site reactions for which asfotase alfa was reduced, 
subsequently withdrew consent for clinical trial participation and discontinued treatment. Histological 
examination of a biopsy specimen from the injection site of this patient showed the presence of large 
adipocytes of normal morphology without evidence of lipoblasts, increased cellularity or other 
pathology. 
As part of the risk management plan, patient education materials have been developed for asfotase 
alfa administration that instruct patients to rotate injection sites, considered part of standard clinical 
care for management of injection site reactions in patients receiving chronic treatment with injectables 
and carefully monitor these for signs of potential injection site reactions. 
Craniosynostosis 
11 patients (all in the infantile-onset hypophosphatasia subgroup, mostly in patients <2 years of age) 
experienced 16 treatment-emergent adverse events of craniosynostosis. One such event was 
considered serious and possibly related to asfotase alfa treatment by the Investigator and was 
associated with conductive deafness as described above. 
Based on known natural history of the condition, the occurrence of craniosynostosis is known to occur 
in hypophosphatasia patients. 
Ectopic Calcification 
22 patients included in the integrated safety analyses experienced a total of 25 events included as 
potential events of ectopic calcification.  
Events reported in ≥2 patients included: 
 
 
 
deposit eye (11.3%) 
conjunctival deposit and nephrocalcinosis (8.5% each) 
corneal deposit (2.8%) 
All events were mild or moderate in intensity. One event of nephrocalcinosis (in the juvenile-onset 
hypophosphatasia subgroup) was considered to be related to asfotase alfa by the Investigator; most of 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 62/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
the ophthalmic calcifications were considered to be related to asfotase alfa. Visual disturbances were 
not reported in conjunction with the ophthalmic calcifications. 
Based on known natural history of the condition, the occurrence of ectopic calcification is not 
uncommon in hypophosphatasia patients. 
Summary of events of craniosynostosis and ectopic calcification according to clinical studies submitted 
by the company: 
Study 02-08 / 03-08 
3 patients had a history of craniosynostosis at baseline. 1 of these patients had a further episode at 
128 days after starting study drug. 
4 patients without a history of craniosynostosis at baseline went on to develop one or more episodes of 
craniosynostosis at or beyond 142 days after exposure to study drug. Craniosynostosis was managed 
medically and surgically. 
None of the patients was found to develop ectopic calcification during the clinical study. 
Study 06-09 / 08-10 
3 patients at baseline had a history of craniosynostosis treated surgically. None of the subjects 
reported new craniosynostosis during the clinical study. 
Ectopic calcification was observed in 4 patients; all 4 events were conjunctival deposits found on eye 
examination (slit lab examination). 
Study 09-10 
3 patients at baseline had a history at baseline of craniosynostosis managed surgically. None of the 
subjects reported new craniosynostosis during the clinical study. 
6 patients developed ectopic calcification. All cases were identified during an eye examination and were 
located either at the conjunctiva or cornea. 1 occurred at week 24 and the others were detected 
beyond week 72.  
Study 10-10 
There were 5 new events of craniosynostosis at 8 weeks of study drug exposure or beyond.  
2 events of ectopic calcification of the eye were reported as treatment-emergent. There were also 3 
events of nephrocalcinosis reported as treatment emergent. 
The company reports on cases of craniosynostosis that have been detected after starting asfotase alfa 
or that have progressed in spite of exposure to asfotase alfa. The association between craniosynostosis 
and asfotase alfa may be real or be coincidental: there are not enough cases to distinguish. Similarly, 
the association between ectopic calcification and asfotase alfa may be real or be coincidental: there are 
not enough cases to distinguish. It is considered, therefore, that there are insufficient data at present 
to establish a causal role of asfotase alfa in the development / progression of craniosynostosis or 
ectopic calcification. 
Craniosynostosis and ectopic calcification are identified as potential risks in the RMP. 
Conductive Deafness 
One patient in the infantile-onset hypophosphatasia subgroup was reported to have a treatment-
emergent adverse event of conductive deafness, which was reported in association with a treatment-
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 63/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
emergent adverse event of craniosynostosis. Both events were assessed as serious and possibly 
related to asfotase alfa treatment by the Investigator. 
Based on known natural history of the condition, the occurrence of conductive deafness is known to 
occur in hypophosphatasia patients. 
Pneumonia / Respiratory Distress 
24 patients included in the integrated safety analyses experienced a total of 137 events broadly 
included as potential events of pneumonia / respiratory distress.  
Events reported in ≥5 patients included 
 
 
 
pneumonia (13 patients) 
respiratory distress (6 patients) 
respiratory disorder (5 patients). 
Of the 137 events reported, 133 occurred in 20 (41.7%) patients in the infantile-onset 
hypophosphatasia subgroup and were more common in patients <2 years of age. 
Based on known natural history of the condition, the occurrence of pneumonia / respiratory distress is 
known to occur in hypophosphatasia patients. 
Chronic Hepatitis and Pancreatitis 
There was one event of chronic hepatitis (occurring in infantile-onset hypophosphatasia patient 
receiving concomitant treatment with montelukast sodium, known to be associated with hepatitis) 
assessed as serious and possibly related to asfotase alfa by the Investigator. 
One patient in the infantile-onset hypophosphatasia subgroup experienced pancreatitis assessed as 
serious and unlikely related to asfotase alfa by the Investigator for which asfotase alfa dosing was 
interrupted. The patient recovered and asfotase alfa dosing was resumed without recurrence of 
pancreatitis. 
Chronic hepatitis is not considered to be an adverse reaction to asfotase alfa. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Serious Adverse Events 
183 non-fatal serious adverse events were experienced by 32 (45.1%) patients included in the 
integrated safety analyses and were generally consistent with the manifestations and complications of 
hypophosphatasia. 
Non-fatal serious adverse events reported by >5% of patients in the integrated safety analyses 
included: 
  Craniosynostosis (11.3%) 
 
Pneumonia (7.0%) 
  Respiratory disorder (5.6%) 
By patient age at first dose of asfotase alfa, about 84% of non-fatal serious adverse events were 
reported by 19 patients <2 years of age, and over 92% of non-fatal serious adverse events were 
reported by 25 patients ≤4 years of age in the infantile-onset hypophosphatasia subgroup, a subgroup 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 64/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
of hypophosphatasia patients that is generally characterised as having more severe disease-related 
manifestations and life-threatening complications. 
11 non-fatal serious adverse events in 3 infantile-onset patients and 1 juvenile-onset 
hypophosphatasia patient were assessed as related to asfotase alfa treatment by the Investigator: 
  2 patients had infusion-associated reactions (considered important medical events by the 
Investigator),  
  1 patient developed craniosynostosis and conductive deafness  
 
The fourth patient experienced chronic hepatitis while receiving concomitant treatment with 
montelukast sodium at the time of onset of the event. Treatment with montelukast sodium was 
discontinued with eventual normalization of liver function tests without interruption of asfotase 
alfa treatment. Hepatobiliary disorders have been reported in patients treated with 
montelukast sodium. 
Deaths 
Five patients died during participation in clinical trials of asfotase alfa prior to the analysis cut-off dates 
for the integrated analyses.  
All deaths occurred in patients who were <1 year of age at enrolment, were in the infantile-onset 
hypophosphatasia subgroup and had 1 or more prognostic factors for poor outcome i.e. rachitic chest 
deformity, respiratory compromise and / or vitamin B6-responsive seizures. 
Death for 1 patient occurred prior to administration of asfotase alfa. Death for 1 patient occurred 
within 3 weeks of treatment initiation. 3 further patients died within 60 weeks of treatment initiation. 
One death due to pneumonia was assessed by the Investigator as being possibly related to asfotase 
alfa. 
Narratives of patients are provided. 
After the analysis cut-off date for the integrated analyses, the Sponsor received reports of 2 additional 
deaths in Study ENB-010-10, as described below: 
Patient, a female patient who was approximately 7 months old at the time of her first dose of asfotase 
alfa, had a medical history significant for rachitic rosary, dysphagia, developmental delay with poor 
head control, hypercalcaemia, nephrocalcinosis and bulging fontanelle. The patient was found 
unresponsive in her car seat en route to the Week 6 study visit; attempts at resuscitation were 
unsuccessful. An autopsy confirmed the death was due to complications of hypophosphatasia. 
Patient, a female patient who was approximately 20.5 months old at the time of her first dose of 
asfotase alfa, was admitted to the hospital approximately 10.5 months after her first dose of asfotase 
alfa with an serious adverse event of pneumonia which was accompanied by pyrexia and respiratory 
failure. Several days later, the Sponsor received a report that the patient died due to respiratory 
failure on an unknown date; the respiratory failure was considered by the Investigator to have an 
unlikely relationship to asfotase alfa. 
A summary of deaths occurring up to the original cut-off point is provided in the following table: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 65/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Summary of deaths (n=5): 
Laboratory findings 
Overall, baseline clinical laboratory measurements of interest such as alkaline phosphatase, serum 
calcium and parathyroid hormone were consistent with the underlying manifestations of 
hypophosphatasia. 
Clinical chemistry 
Parathyroid hormone concentration increased, most notably over the first 12 weeks of treatment, likely 
associated with the bone mineralization process. 
Urinalysis 
There were no consistent changes in urinalysis over the course of asfotase alfa treatment.  
Haematology 
A summary of treatment-emergent adverse events potentially associated with abnormal haematology 
laboratory results experienced by patients in the Pooled Safety Set overall and by age at disease onset 
is provided in the following table: 
Of the events listed in, only the event of neutropenia was considered by the Investigator to be related 
to asfotase alfa. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 66/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
By Age at First Dose 
Safety analyses were performed using the age groups defined in ICH Guideline E11 and also by groups 
defined by the company (infants / toddlers <2 years of age; children 2 to 4 years of age; children 5 to 
12 years of age; adolescents 13 to 17 years of age and adults ≥18 years of age) to align more closely 
with the enrolment criteria in the clinical studies. 
It was noted that some types of events tended to occur in higher proportions of younger patients, 
particularly patients <2 years of age compared with older patients, such as: respiratory, renal, cardiac 
and central nervous system events that are known features of hypophosphatasia. Also more common 
were gastro-intestinal and skin events that are more common in children than adults. 
Children and adolescents were more likely to report injection site reactions and lipohypertrophy. 
Older patients were more likely to report pain and eye deposits / calcifications. 
By Gender 
Overall, there appeared to be no clinically meaningful differences in the safety profile of male and 
female patients treated with asfotase alfa. 
By Race 
Patients in Japan had a disproportionately high number of injection site reactions. Otherwise, overall, 
the types and rates of events noted in White patients and patients of “Other” races, including severe 
and nonfatal serious adverse events, followed the same general patterns observed in the overall 
Pooled Safety Set. 
Immunological events 
Pooled Safety Set 
Of the 69 patients for whom post-Baseline antibody data were available, 56 (81.2%) tested positive for 
anti-drug antibodies at some point post Baseline. 
Anti-drug antibodies titres ranged from 0 to 2048 (median peak titre of 64.0). 
The median time to first anti-drug antibody positive result was 37.0 days (range of 14 to 1072 days). 
Not all patients who tested positive for anti-drug antibodies post Baseline remained consistently 
positive for these antibodies after the initial positive result. 
Continuously Positive or Not Continuously Positive Antidrug Antibody Status 
In order to be categorised as continuously positive for anti-drug antibodies, a patient must have 
achieved and sustained uninterrupted positive results for anti-drug antibodies during and through the 
end of their series of anti-drug antibody measurements while receiving treatment. At a minimum, a 
patient must have been positive for the last 2 anti-drug antibody measurements while on treatment. 
More patients categorized as continuously anti-drug antibody positive reported treatment emergent 
adverse events than patients categorised as not continuously anti-drug antibody positive as follows:  
 
 
 
injection site erythema (64.3% vs. 37.0%) 
injection site pain (31.0% vs. 11.1%) 
injection site pruritus (26.2% vs. 11.1%); 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 67/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
injection site macule and injection site swelling (21.4% vs. 7.4%, each). 
The incidence rates for these events were: 
 
 
 
 
 
Injection site erythema (174.6 vs. 139.6 events/100 patient years) 
Injection site pain (44.7 vs. 10.9 events/100 patient years) 
Injection site pruritus (37.4 vs. 13.7 events/100 patient years) 
Injection site macule (40.5 vs 49.3 events/100 patient years) 
Injection site swelling (27.0 vs. 10.9 events/100 patient years) 
The incidence rates of the events commonly associated with injection site reactions were generally not 
greater in patients categorised as continuously anti-drug antibody positive compared with patients 
categorised as not continuously anti-drug antibody positive, even though a greater proportion of 
patients categorised as continuously anti-drug antibody positive reported these types of events. 
Overall, the incidence rate for treatment emergent adverse events experienced by patients before 
becoming continuously anti-drug antibody positive (1938.8 events/100 patient-years of exposure to 
asfotase alfa) was greater than the incidence rate for treatment emergent adverse events experienced 
by patients after becoming continuously anti-drug antibody positive (1144.1 events/100 patient-
years). 
Ever Positive or Always Negative for Antidrug Antibodies 
Proportionally more patients who ever had a positive anti-drug antibody result experienced treatment 
emergent adverse events considered by the Investigator to be related to asfotase alfa (89.3%) 
compared with patients who were always negative for anti-drug antibody (69.2%). This observation 
was mainly influenced by the greater proportion of patients who were ever positive for anti-drug 
antibody who experienced an injection site reaction. 
The incidence rates for treatment emergent adverse events were generally greater before patients had 
a positive anti-drug antibody result compared to the rates after patients had a positive anti-drug 
antibody result. Incidence rates in the SOC of General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions, in 
which many of the preferred terms for injection site reactions are coded, were 856.5 events/100 
patient years of exposure to asfotase alfa before patients had any positive anti-drug antibody results 
(which includes patients who were always negative for anti-drug antibody), and 387.9 events/100 
patient years after patients had any positive anti-drug antibody results. 
By Peak Antibody Titre Category 
Overall, more patients who ever had an anti-drug antibody titre >128 experienced injection site 
reactions compared to patients who had anti-drug antibody titres ≤128 (91.7% vs 75.0%); however, 
the number of patients who ever had an anti-drug antibody titre >128 was small (n=12). In the SOC 
of General Disorders and Administration Site Condition, wherein many of the preferred terms for 
injection site reactions are coded, the proportions of patients who experienced events were comparable 
between patients who ever had an anti-drug antibody titre >128 and those who always had anti-drug 
antibody titres ≤128 (91.7% vs. 90.9%) 
Neutralising Antibody Analyses 
Of the 69 patients in the Pooled Safety Set for whom antibody data were available, 56 (81.2%) tested 
positive for anti-drug antibody at some time point post Baseline and were included in the analyses for 
neutralising antibodies. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 68/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
25 of these patients were positive for neutralising antibodies at some time point post Baseline i.e. had 
a neutralising antibodies inhibition result >4.478%.  
As with anti-drug antibodies, patients who tested positive for neutralising antibodies at some point 
post Baseline were not consistently positive for neutralising antibodies after the first positive result.  
The median peak inhibition values for neutralising antibodies in the 56 patients who were ever positive 
for anti-drug antibody was 3.870% with a range of 5.696% to 16.868%. 
A greater proportion of patients who were ever positive for neutralising antibodies experienced 
treatment emergent adverse events considered by the investigator to be related to asfotase alfa 
compared with patients who were always negative for neutralising antibodies (92.0% vs. 81.8%). This 
was mainly influenced by the proportions of patients who experienced injection-associated reactions. 
The incidence rate for overall treatment emergent adverse events  experienced by patients after they 
experienced their first positive neutralising antibody result (1198.4 events/100 patient years of 
exposure to asfotase alfa) was lower than that for patients before their first positive neutralising 
antibody result (1691.5 events/100 patient years). 
Overall 
Overall, the magnitude of the immunogenicity response was considered small and time-variant in 
patients. 
Results of analyses performed for patients who had continuously positive anti-drug antibody results 
(defined as positive results for at least the last 2 available post-Baseline assessments, regardless of 
length of exposure to asfotase alfa), patients who ever had any positive post-Baseline anti-drug 
antibody result (“ever positive”), and patients with at least 1 post-Baseline anti-drug antibody 
titre >128 did not suggest there was an appreciable impact of anti-drug antibodies on the safety 
profile of asfotase alfa. 
There were not any indications of anaphylaxis with s/c administration of asfotase alfa. 
While no consistent pattern between antibody titre and any of the pharmacodynamic measurements or 
radiographic assessments could be discerned, no firm conclusions can be drawn from this informal 
analysis given the small sample size. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
  Drug Interactions 
  No interaction studies have been performed with asfotase alfa. Based on its structure and 
pharmacokinetics, asfotase alfa is an unlikely candidate for cytochrome P450-mediated 
interactions. 
 
Interactions with Food 
  Asfotase alfa is administered s/c. Studies designed to investigate the effect of food on asfotase alfa 
have not been conducted. Given the s/c route of administration, food effects are not anticipated. 
By Geographic Region 
There are 71 patients in the Pooled Safety Set. 54 patients were treated at sites in the USA / Canada, 
9 patients were treated at sites in Europe, 5 patients were treated at sites in Japan and 3 patients 
were treated at sites throughout the rest of the world. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 69/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5 patients treated in Japan were all in the infantile-onset hypophosphatasia subgroup and had a 
disproportionate number of injection-site reactions compared with the other geographic regions. For 
example, the incidence rate for injection site erythema for patients in Japan was more than 27 times 
greater than what was observed in patients treated in Europe. 
Overall, the types and rates of events noted in patients treated at sites in Europe, including severe and 
nonfatal serious adverse events, followed the same general patterns observed in the overall Pooled 
Safety Set. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
Discontinuations 
  Excluding deaths, 2 patients discontinued asfotase alfa in association with treatment-emergent 
adverse events: 
  One patient in the infantile-onset subgroup experienced non-serious infusion associated 
reactions of pyrexia, chills, pilo-erection and irritability in association with the single iv infusion 
of asfotase alfa (in study ENB-002-08/ENB-003-08). 
 
The second patient (in study ENB-009-10, in the juvenile-onset subgroup) experienced 
multiple injection site reactions (including injection site discolouration assessed as severe by 
the Investigator) and subsequently withdrew consent for clinical trial participation and 
discontinued treatment. 
Temporary interruptions 
Four patients (all in the infantile-onset hypophosphatasia subgroup) had temporary interruptions in 
asfotase alfa dosing due to treatment-emergent adverse events during clinical trial participation. None 
of these treatment-emergent adverse events (cases of change in neurological status, haematuria, false 
positive pregnancy test and pneumonia) was assessed as asfotase alfa treatment-related. 
In addition, 7 patients (4 in the infantile-onset and 3 in the juvenile-onset hypophosphatasia subgroup) 
had 1 or more dose modifications as a result of treatment-emergent adverse events (mostly injection 
site events) or because of signs / symptoms associated with the underlying hypophosphatasia (cases 
of bone fracture, pneumonia, muscular weakness). 
In addition: 
Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
Asfotase alfa has not been studied in pregnant or lactating women. 
Overdose 
Patients have received asfotase alfa at doses up to 28 mg/kg/wk s/c. No dose-related toxicity has been 
observed in clinical studies to date. 
No change in the safety profile has been seen with higher doses by mg/kg, absolute dose, or by serum 
concentration. 
Drug Abuse 
The potential for drug abuse was not investigated or reported in human trials of asfotase alfa. 
Withdrawal and Rebound 
The possibility of withdrawal and rebound has not been studied (life-long treatment is anticipated). 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 70/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Effects on Ability to Drive or Operate Machinery or Impairment of Mental Ability 
The effects of asfotase alfa treatment on the ability to drive or operate machinery or whether 
treatment with asfotase alfa may impair mental ability have not been studied. 
Post marketing experience 
n/a 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The total patient exposure to study drug is limited: allowance for this has been made in the 
assessment process, however, because of the rarity of the hypophosphatasia condition. 
Each study submitted in the current application included collection of data on safety, as required. The 
company has reported on 2706 treatment-emergent adverse events in the 71 patients included in the 
integrated safety analyses. A relatedness exercise carried out by the company has identified “injection 
site reactions” and “injection associated reactions” as the most common adverse events and these 
were recorded in all studies. Anaphylaxis was not recorded. There was broad agreement on the nature 
of the adverse events found in both infantile-onset and juvenile-onset hypophosphatasia. 
When injection site reactions were excluded from the analysis, there were 50 treatment emergent 
adverse events assessed as treatment-related experienced by 29/71 patients. Events among these 
included: deposit eye, conjunctival deposit, nephrolithiasis and pain in extremity. 
Ectopic calcification may be a feature of hypophosphatasia. Modelling studies submitted by the 
company suggest that ectopic calcification may also be more likely if asfotase alfa is administered at a 
dosage higher than 6mg/kg/week (which would be higher than the recommended dose). Information 
on ectopic calcification is included in the SmPC section 4.4. 
The issue of low vitamin D status, and a possible need for vitamin D supplementation, consequent to 
exposure to asfotase alfa, is addressed in sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC. 
The issue of some patients displaying a rise in weight out of proportion to the increase in height is 
addressed in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
The analysis of immunogenicity has not given rise to any particular concern (with the caveat that 
antibody status after a study-drug free period of 4-5 half-lives has not been tested, but instead the 
dissociation technique described was employed). 
Hypophosphatasia is known to be associated with appreciable morbidity and mortality at a young age. 
Those serious adverse events and deaths recorded during studies conducted by the company have 
been described in detail by the company: the relatedness exercise carried out by the company has 
found that such events were (mainly) owing to the underlying hypophosphatasia; there was insufficient 
evidence to establish whether or not there is a causal relationship between exposure to Strensiq and 
craniosynostosis or ectopic calcification. The explanations of the company were found to be acceptable 
by CHMP. Craniosynostosis and ectopic calcification are both identified in the Risk Management Plan as 
important potential risks and are also described appropriately in the SmPC.  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 71/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The total patient exposure to study drug was very limited with 71 patients included in the integrated 
safety analyses. Taken that limitation into account, aspects of clinical safety reported by the company 
did not give rise to any particular, serious concern and were considered to be clinically manageable. 
The issue of low vitamin D status, and a possible need for vitamin D supplementation, consequent to 
exposure to asfotase alfa is addressed in sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC. 
The issue of some patients displaying a rise in weight out of proportion to the increase in height is 
addressed in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
There was insufficient evidence to establish whether or not there is a causal relationship between 
exposure to Strensiq and craniosynostosis or ectopic calcification. 
The CHMP agreed with the applicant’s argumentation that the patient population of paediatric onset 
hypophosphatasia is encountered so rarely that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to 
provide comprehensive clinical data on the safety and efficacy of this medicinal product. The incidence 
of the most severe forms of the disease is very low and thought to be about 1:100,000 live births, 
although markedly higher in some small populations, and recently estimated to be approximately 
1:300,000 in Europe. As a consequence, the applicant will be obliged to set up a registry in order to 
provide, on an ongoing bases, further evidence as specific obligations relating in particular to efficacy 
and safety as follows: 
Observational, Longitudinal, Prospective, Long-Term Registry of Patients with HPP to collect 
information on the epidemiology of the disease, including clinical outcomes and quality of life, and to 
evaluate safety and effectiveness data in patients treated with Strensiq. Specifically, more information 
is to be collected on the variability, progression and natural history of the disease in all age groups, the 
disease burden, clinical outcomes, and quality of life, and to collect and evaluate safety and 
effectiveness data specific to the use of asfotase alfa. 
These specific obligations shall be reassessed annually. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils 
the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC.  
2.8.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.3 is acceptable. In addition, minor 
revisions were recommended to be taken into account with the next RMP update. The PRAC endorsed 
PRAC Rapporteur assessment report is attached. 
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 1.3 with the following content: 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 72/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety concerns 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 73/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 74/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 75/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 76/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 77/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 78/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 79/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 80/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 81/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 82/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 83/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 84/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.9.2.  Labelling exemptions 
A request of partial translation exemption of the labelling (outer carton and vial label) and package 
leaflet as per Article.63(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC has been submitted by the applicant and has been 
found unacceptable by the QRD Group. 
The request was rejected due the fact that the product can be self-administered by the patient at 
home and the applicant has been asked to attempt multilingual combinations first for the outer carton 
and vial label.  
The applicant has also been offered the option of using Art. 63(3) on the basis of severe availability 
issues and, therefore, could approach each Member State at national level.  
2.9.3.  Quick Response (QR) Code 
A QR code linking to educational materials has been included in the package leaflet, as requested by 
PRAC. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
The company has recruited patients with hypophosphatasia to take part in 3 open-label, non 
controlled, non-randomised phase 2 clinical studies of exposure to asfotase alfa. Studies ENB-002-08 
and ENB-006-09 are complete (their extensions are on-going). Study ENB-010-10 is on-going. 
Also submitted were studies ENB-009-10 (concurrent non-treated control, open label), a retrospective, 
non-interventional, epidemiological study ENB-011-10 (complete) and study ENB-001-08, a short-term 
30-day safety & tolerability and PK study (complete). 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 85/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
71 patients have been recruited to the above studies in addition to historical controls. 
The main endpoint of all studies was the outcome of the Radiographic Impression of Change (RGI-C) 
score, a radiographic assessment tool devised by the company to emulate the practice of radiologists 
in assessing changes in x-rays of the wrists, hands and knees. X-ray changes from baseline were then 
rated as follows: -3=severe worsening, -2=moderate worsening, -1=minimal worsening, 0=no change, 
+1=minimal healing, +2=substantial healing, +3= near-complete or complete healing. 
Study 06-09/08-10  
It is considered that study 06-09/08-10 is the most informative study submitted by the company. 
Patients who received asfotase alfa moved to RGI-C scores of +2 and +3 over the first 6 months of 
exposure and this was sustained with on-going treatment. By contrast, historical controls did not show 
change over time. 
For 10 patients in the per-protocol set of study 06-09/08-10 (excludes those patients who received 
oral vitamin D between baseline and week 24) who underwent biopsy of the trans-iliac bone crest 
before and after receiving asfotase alfa: 
 
 
 
Mean (SD) osteoid thickness was 13.3(3.6)µm at baseline and 9.7(5.0)µm at week 24 
Mean (SD) osteoid volume / bone volume was 13.9(7.9)% at baseline and 8.4(7.3)% at week 24 
Mean (SD) mineralisation lag-time was 163 (269) days at baseline and 114 (225) days at week 
24 
The improvements in both static and dynamic measurements of bone pathophysiology shown by 
histological analysis are considered to be clinically relevant. 
Height, weight and head circumference were plotted on growth charts (series of percentile curves that 
illustrate distribution) available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USA. These 
reference data were drawn from a representative sample of healthy children and are not specific for 
children with special health care needs: they have been used in the absence of growth charts for 
children with hypophosphatasia. For those patients who received asfotase alfa: 9/13 patients displayed 
persistent apparent catch-up height-gain as shown by movement over time to a higher percentile on 
CDC growth charts. 3/13 patients did not display apparent catch-up height-gain and 1 patient did not 
have enough data to permit judgement. Progress through Tanner stages appeared appropriate. 
By contrast, for the time period of observation of historical controls: 1/16 patients displayed apparent 
catch-up height-gain, 12/16 patients did not display apparent catch-up height-gain and data were 
inconclusive in 3/16 patients. 
Studies 02-08/03-08, 09-10, 10-10 and 11-10 
Observation analysis of studies 02-08/03-08 and 10/10 has described 12/21 patients who were 
exposed to Strensiq and who were successfully weaned off ventilation support (when ventilation 
support has been needed). By contrast, the natural history of untreated infant hypophosphatasia 
patients in study 11-10 suggests a high mortality if ventilation is required. 
Results of clinical efficacy from study 09-10 were generally supportive of clinical benefit, though 
highlight that data are very limited in adult subjects. The company will provide further data on adult 
subjects as a post-marketing commitment. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 86/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
‘Heterogeneity of clinical effect’ 
The bulk of evidence submitted to support claims of clinical efficacy was from subjects under 13 yrs of 
age. 
On the basis of the RGI-C score change, bone histology change (osteoid thickness, osteoid volume and 
mineralisation lag time) and apparent catch-up height-gain over time, efficacy was most convincingly 
demonstrated in the 5 to 12 yrs age group of study 06-09/08-10.  
There was evidence of a positive clinical efficacy outcome, though less strong, also in the population 
age group 0.5 to 35 months that took part in study 02-08/03-08: "only" 7/11 patients achieved an 
RGI-C score of +2 at week 24 whilst height-gain appears to fluctuate, probably reflecting the more 
severe disease and higher rate of co-existing morbidity in these younger patients.  
There was a lack of sufficient evidence of clinical efficacy for patients aged 13 to 66 yrs of age taking 
part in study 09-10. Results of bone biopsies in this age group suggest that there may be a decrease in 
mineralisation lag time of bone consequent to exposure to asfotase alfa. Interpretation of results is 
hampered, however, by the inherent difficulties associated with the technique of serial bone biopsy, 
the small number of patients involved in this exercise and because subjects were exposed to doses of 
asfotase alfa below that currently recommended [it is noted that osteoid thickness and volume did not 
change, unlike subjects in study 06-09 who were <13yrs age]. Furthermore, there was also a lack of 
data that convince of a clinically significant consequence of possible improvement in bone 
pathophysiology in the age group of 13 to 66 yrs of age in study 09-10. Concerns over lack of 
convincing clinical data are most pronounced for subjects ≥18 yrs (in particular those who initiate 
treatment when ≥18yrs age).  
It is considered that the apparently differential response based on age may be a manifestation of 
'heterogeneity of clinical effect'.  
The data for subjects between 13 to 18 yrs of age is very limited, and the applicant has not been able 
to provide a robust presentation of this population in its studies. Therefore, the CHMP considered it 
necessary that the applicant will obtain further data to substantiate evidence of efficacy in this age 
group. Concerns over the limited amount of clinical data are particularly pronounced for subjects 
≥18yrs. For treatment of patients ≥18 years, key data on both optimal dose and schedule of 
administration are missing. Therefore, the applicant is required to generate data in a dedicated 
pharmacokinetics (PK) study of Strensiq in adults following administration of the dose advised in 
children and to provide dose response data and to explore evidence of clinical benefit in this patient 
population. (see section 2.5.3: Conclusion on clinical efficacy) 
It has been noted that, during the course of clinical studies, the main objectives were variously 
changed with regard to the primary endpoint, how the primary endpoint was interpreted. In addition, 
on the basis of emerging data, changes were made to the dosage of study drug and inclusion / 
exclusion criteria of study subjects. Cautious interpretation of data submitted is therefore required. 
Interpretation of submitted data was further hampered by use of baseline-comparison (in the absence 
of a suitable control group). Only one study (study 09-10) has had a concurrent control albeit non-
treated as opposed to placebo. There was concern that the open-label, non-controlled, non-
randomised, baseline-comparison nature of the studies is associated with high bias towards favouring 
the study drug. There were additional concerns that (i) studies have been carried out with the 
presumption of therapeutic competence and that (ii) studies have employed an ambitious array of test 
strategies.  
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 87/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Of concern is that apparent catch-up height-gain over time shown with the use of asfotase alfa may be 
a non-specific effect of more attention being paid to patients during the studies. However, as previous 
management strategies (e.g. plasma replacement, teriparatide, bone marrow transplant) have not 
shown similar clinical efficacy with regard to catch-up height-gain it seems plausible that the clinical 
efficacy claimed for asfotase alfa is not non-specific. 
The use of historical control data in study 11-10 was considered generally supportive for the purposes 
of illustration but it was considered that improvements in supportive care and technologies (especially 
those of respiratory support) hamper direct comparison with clinical efficacy data generated by the 
studies. Study 11-10 has informed overall analysis of clinical safety of the current product. The 
company has observed that some subjects exposed to Strensiq in studies 02-08/03-08 and 10-10 were 
successfully weaned off ventilation (when ventilation has been needed): a comparison has been made 
with the natural history of untreated subjects in study 11-10 where there was a high mortality if 
ventilation was clinically required, however this comparison exercise must be interpreted with caution 
because of the potential of bias and confounding elements to interfere. 
Output data from the modelling exercise carried out by the company has to be interpreted with caution 
due to the limitations of the quality of data put in to the model. 
The CHMP did not accept results of serum concentrations of inorganic pyrophosphate and pyridoxal 
phosphate in response to exposure to asfotase alfa because of concerns over sample collection and 
analysis. Irrespective, results of inorganic pyrophosphate and pyridoxal phosphate were not considered 
to be crucial by CHMP to the application from the overall clinical perspective. 
The applicant has committed to use acceptable techniques for blood collection, storage and assay for 
those biomarkers in future studies. 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
Each study submitted in the current application included collection of data on safety, as required. The 
company has reported on 2706 treatment-emergent adverse events in the 71 patients included in the 
integrated safety analyses. A relatedness exercise carried out by the company has identified “injection 
site reactions” and “injection associated reactions” as the most common adverse events. These events 
were clinically manageable and were overall found to be acceptable by CHMP. 
There is concern that the metabolic stress consequent to exposure to asfotase alfa leads to a relative 
vitamin D deficiency and secondary hyperparathyroidism. This concern is addressed by advice and 
information given in sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC. 
Disproportionate weight gain has occurred consequent to exposure to asfotase alfa. This concern is 
addressed by information in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Uncertainty about unfavourable effects did arise because of the small population studied (there were 
only 71 patients exposed in all studies) thereby making it difficult to detect adverse events other than 
those that may be regarded as ‘common’ or striking in nature. Uncertainty also did arise because a 
high background morbidity associated with the hypophosphatasia condition may mask adverse events 
caused by asfotase alfa. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 88/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
It is considered that there are insufficient data to establish a causal association between Strensiq and 
either development or progression of craniosynostosis or ectopic calcification [both of which may occur 
during the natural history of hypophosphatasia]. 
Overall, the total patient exposure to study drug was very limited with 71 patients included in the 
integrated safety analyses and uncertainty regarding unfavourable effects remain. Continuous 
collection of further data on clinical efficacy and safety is required as a specific obligation in the context 
of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances: 
Observational, Longitudinal, Prospective, Long-Term Registry of Patients with HPP to collect 
information on the epidemiology of the disease, including clinical outcomes and quality of life, and to 
evaluate safety and effectiveness data in patients treated with Strensiq. 
The specific obligation shall be reassessed annually. 
Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The commonly encountered unfavourable effects of injection site reactions are considered to be 
tolerable by patients and clinically manageable. Other unfavourable effects described were also 
considered to be manageable by the agreed risk management plan and pharmacovigilance activities. 
The clinical benefit of exposure to asfotase alfa for patients with hypophosphatasia was considered 
positive by CHMP from the clinical perspective [with caveats consequent to the open-label, non-
controlled nature of the phase 2 studies submitted in support of the current product]. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Although based on a very limited set of data due to the rarity of the underlying disease, the potential 
improvement in bone health and growth were considered by CHMP to outweigh the unfavourable 
effects of injection reactions and other adverse events which are considered to be either tolerable or 
clinically manageable. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk assessment 
Whilst the CHMP had concerns over the open-label, non-controlled nature of the phase 2 studies 
submitted leading to possible bias in favour of the current product, the apparent improvements in x-
ray appearance of knees and hands and wrists were relevant (along with the apparent “catch up” in 
growth) and are further supported by a patient population that reports mainly positive physical effects 
within the first 6 months of exposure. 
The company has submitted arguments in favour of granting a marketing authorisation under 
exceptional circumstances in accord with EU regulation 726/2004 and EU directive 2001/83/EC, as 
amended. The CHMP agreed with the justification, considering that: 
  Hypophosphatasia is a rare, serious, and life-threatening metabolic disorder. The incidence of 
the most severe forms of the disease is thought to be about 1:100,000 live births, although it 
is markedly higher in a small Canadian Mennonite population. The incidence of the most severe 
forms of HPP in Europe was recently estimated to be approximately 1:300,000. 
Given the extreme rarity of the disease, comprehensive data on the efficacy and safety cannot be 
provided and data in this population will likely remain limited. Besides, Hypophosphatasia is a 
seriously debilitating and life-threatening metabolic disease. No product has been approved for this 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 89/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
indication. There is a high unmet medical need to provide hypophosphatasia patients with a safe 
and effective therapy. 
The overall benefit / risk of asfotase alfa is considered to be positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Strensiq in the indication for long-term enzyme replacement therapy in 
patients with paediatric-onset hypophosphatasia to treat the bone manifestations of the disease is 
favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures  
 
Prior to launch of Strensiq in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must agree 
about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The educational programme is aimed to provide instruction to patients and carers for proper 
administration techniques to address the risks of medication errors and injection site reactions. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 90/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Strensiq is marketed all patients/parents or 
caregivers who are expected to use Strensiq have access are provided with the following educational 
package: 
  Patient information leaflet 
  Self-injection guide for patients 
  Injection guide for parents or caregivers with infant patients 
The Patient/parents or caregivers guides shall contain the following key messages: 
  Warning and precautions on the potential risk of medication errors and injection site reactions 
associated with the use of Strensiq 
  Instructions on the correct dose to be administered 
  Instruction on how the injection site is chosen and how the injection is carried out and recorded 
  Detailed description on how Strensiq is injected using aseptic techniques  
  Information on cold chain management for Strensiq during storage and travel 
  Information on reporting side effect 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Due date 
The MAH should conduct a multicentre, randomized, open-label, Phase 2a study of 
31 March 2017 
Strensiq in patients with hypophosphatasia (HPP) to:  
(i) evaluate pharmacokinetics (PK) of Strensiq in adults following administration of the 
dose advised in children;  
(ii) provide dose response data on plasma inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) and 
pyridoxal-5` -phosphate (PLP) and to explore evidence of clinical benefit.  
In order to ensure that the data are reliable, the MAH should submit a study protocol 
including acceptable techniques for blood collection, storage and assay for the PPi and 
PLP biomarkers, to be agreed by CHMP before the start of the study. 
The MAH should extend the studies ENB-008-10 and ENB-009-10 to provide efficacy 
31 March 2017 
data (such as, but not limited to RGI-C scores, height and weight change, biomarkers 
measurement) in patients 13 to 18 year-old of age. 
Specific Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures for the marketing authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances 
This being a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following 
measures: 
Description 
Due date 
The MAH should set up an observational, longitudinal, prospective, long-term registry 
Annually within 
of patients with HPP to collect information on the epidemiology of the disease, 
annual 
including clinical outcomes and quality of life, and to evaluate safety and effectiveness 
reassessment 
data in patients treated with Strensiq.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 91/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that asfotase alfa is qualified as a new active substance. 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan P/0306/2013 and the results of these studies are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
EMA/CHMP/383178/2015 
Page 92/92 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
