EMA/448614/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Strensiq (asfotase alfa) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Strensiq, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Strensiq is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Strensiq, which can be found on Strensiq’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Strensiq is a medicine used to treat hypophosphatasia (HPP), a rare genetic disease of the bones. It 
can affect men and women of any age, from infancy through adulthood. Strensiq is used in HPP that 
started in childhood. The incidence (number of newly diagnosed cases) of severe forms is estimated at 
1 per 100,000 live births. People with HPP have low levels of an enzyme called alkaline phosphatase 
that is necessary for normal bone development and the hardening of the bones. Patients with both 
childhood- and adult-onset HPP have complications which may include deformity of bones, abnormal 
growth and decreased muscle performance. These can rapidly lead to progressive damage to multiple 
vital organs, for example lungs, bone muscle, brain and kidney, leading to respiratory failure, 
fractures, weakness, developmental delays, seizures and kidney stones.  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Strensiq contains the active substance asfotase alfa and is available as a solution for injection under 
the skin.  
Strensiq has been studied in one main study in 13 children between 6 and 12 years of age. Patients 
were given either 2 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg Strensiq three times a week for 24 weeks. The main measure to 
indicate effectiveness of the medicine was the improvement in x-ray appearance of the wrists and knee 
joints of patients before and after treatment with Strensiq. X-rays of children given Strensiq were also 
compared with similar x-rays available from 16 children who had not received Strensiq (‘historical 
controls’). The study also looked at other measures of effectiveness such as growth in height. This 
study showed that children given Strensiq had an improvement in their joint structure as demonstrated 
by x-rays and most of them seemed to gain in height. In the historical controls, most children did not 
experience similar improvements in their joints or gain in height over a comparable period of time. 
The effectiveness of Strensiq was also generally supported by several additional small studies. Some of 
the studies also looked at the dose of 1 mg/kg Strensiq given six times a week. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Strensiq has not been studied in the following groups of patients: 
• 
patients over 65 years of age; 
Page 1/6 
 
 
•  non-Caucasian (non-white) patients;  
• 
• 
• 
pregnant women;  
patients with severe liver or kidney disorders; 
patients who use the medicine long-term.  
The effect of Strensiq on other HPP disease characteristics like seizure, craniosynostosis (early fusion 
of the bones of the head in children below 5 years of age) and ectopic calcification (calcium deposit in 
inner membrane of the eyelid and kidney) is not known. 
There is limited information on the treatment benefit in patients above 13 years of age. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Reactions at the 
In clinical studies of Strensiq at least 
Reactions at the injection site can be 
site of injection 
1 out of 2 patients experienced 
prevented by injecting the medicine 
(injection site 
reactions) 
reactions at the site of the injection. 
correctly, in line with the instructions of 
The most common reactions are: 
the product information. Rotating the 
rash, redness, discolouration and 
site of these injections will also help 
thinning of the skin, inflammation, 
reduce reactions at a particular injection 
bumps, hives, pain and itching of the 
site.  
injection site 
Not all patients experienced all 
reactions: These reactions were 
usually mild in nature and resolved 
over time.  
Development of 
Because Strensiq contains a protein, 
Patients who experience any symptom of 
antibodies against 
it could potentially be detected as 
an allergic reaction, should inform their 
the medicine 
‘foreign’ by the immune system, 
doctor immediately. If symptoms of a 
(immunogenicity) 
which could then produce antibodies 
severe allergic reaction occur, Strensiq 
against Strensiq.  
should be discontinued immediately and 
appropriate medical treatment initiated. 
Antibodies to the medicine have been 
observed in patients in the clinical 
studies. These antibodies could 
potentially cause side effects such as 
allergic reactions. Symptoms of such 
reactions include low blood pressure, 
vomiting, difficulty breathing, fast 
heart rate, hives or rash. In the 
clinical studies with Strensiq, patients 
who developed antibodies against 
Strensiq did not show signs of allergic 
reactions. 
In addition, antibodies against the 
Page 2/6 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
medicine could potentially reduce the 
effect of the medicine. 
Reactions 
Reactions associated with the 
These reactions are not preventable. 
associated with 
injection, such as shaking, chills, 
Patients who experience such reactions 
the injection, but 
headache, fever, nausea and 
should tell their doctor immediately. The 
which do not occur 
numbness of the lips have been 
patients may need to be given additional 
at the injection 
experienced by patients in the clinical 
medicines (antihistamines or 
corticosteroids) along with the injection 
of Strensiq to treat these reactions. 
site 
studies. 
(injection 
associated 
reactions) 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Calcium deposit in 
Cases of deposits of calcium salts in the kidney, on the inner membrane of the 
inner membrane of 
eyelid and surface of the eye have been reported during clinical studies with 
the eyelid, surface of 
Strensiq, but it is not known if those events are associated with Strensiq or 
the eye and kidney  
with the patients’ disease. 
(ectopic calcification) 
Early fusion of the 
Cases of early fusion of the bones of the head have been reported during 
bones of the head in 
clinical studies with Strensiq in young children (below 5 years of age), but it is 
children below 5 
not known if those events are associated with Strensiq or with the patients’ 
years of age 
disease. 
(craniosynostosis) 
Improper use of 
There are a few cases where the incorrect dose was administered to a patient 
medication 
during clinical studies. No side effects were reported in these patients. The 
(medication errors) 
medicine’s carton and label will therefore be colour-coded to better distinguish 
between presentations. In addition, booklets and animated injection guides 
with detailed information on the correct use and administration of the 
medicine will be available to patients and carers. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Limited information 
Strensiq has not been specifically studied in patients with liver and kidney 
on use in patients 
impairment. 
with kidney and liver 
impairment 
Limited information 
Experience on the use of Strensiq during pregnancy in humans is limited. 
on Strensiq’s use in 
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
pregnant and 
Strensiq is not recommended during pregnancy and in women who can have 
breastfeeding women 
children and who are not using contraception. Breastfeeding should be 
discontinued during treatment with Strensiq. Women who are pregnant or 
breastfeeding, think they may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
should ask their doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Limited information 
Strensiq has not been specifically studied in older patients. 
on use in older 
patients 
Long-term safety and 
The experience regarding long term use of Strensiq in HPP patients is limited. 
effectiveness 
Limited information in 
The experience regarding the long term use of Strensiq in non-Caucasian 
non-Caucasian 
patients is limited. 
patients 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Strensiq can be found on Strensiq’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Strensiq’s EPAR 
page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement between the 
marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
Injection site reactions; Medication errors  
Risk minimisation measure: Educational material 
Objective and rationale: To provide advice on the management of injection site reactions; to reduce 
the risk of medication errors. 
Description: Educational material will be provided to patients and caregivers by the physician. These 
will include separate Injection Guides for Patients who self-inject and for parents/caregivers who inject 
infant patients. An animated Injection Guide will also be made available. The guides include 
information such as how to choose the injection site; how to inject using aseptic techniques; how to 
carry out and record the injection; how to maintain the cold chain during storage and travel; how to 
administer the correct dose and how to report side effects  
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
Interim data 
analysis yearly 
Final report to be 
submitted 18 
months after EC 
decision (February 
2017) 
Final report to be 
submitted 18 
months after EC 
decision (February 
2017) 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
ALX-HPP-501: An 
To collect and 
Effectiveness data 
Planned 
observational, 
evaluate data on 
on the use of 
longitudinal, 
safety and 
Strensiq in HPP 
prospective, long-
effectiveness of 
patients. 
term registry of 
the use of 
patients with 
Strensiq in HPP 
hypophosphatasia 
patients. 
Efficacy data from 
RGI-C scores, 
Limited efficacy 
Planned 
patients 13-18 
height, weight 
data in patient 
years of age 
change, and 
aged 13 to 18 
enrolled in 
biomarker 
years of age. 
ongoing clinical 
measurement in 
studies (ENB-008-
patients 13 to 18 
10 and ENB-009-
years of age. 
10) 
Study in patents 
Pharmacokinetic 
Limited efficacy 
Planned 
>18 years of age 
data on plasma 
data in patients 
levels of Strensiq 
above 18 years of 
following 
age. 
administration of 
the dose proven 
to be effective in 
children (6.0 
mg/kg/week). 
Dose response 
data on the 
biomarkers 
inorganic 
pyrophosphate 
(PPi) and 
pyridoxal-5′-
phosphate (PLP) 
in approximately 
27 patients. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
The company has the obligation to carry out all the three studies listed in the table above. 
Page 5/6 
 
 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
This summary was last updated in 07-2015. 
Page 6/6 
 
 
