EMA/410451/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004745 
Striascan (ioflupane (123I)) 
An overview of Striascan and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Striascan and what is it used for? 
Striascan is a diagnostic medicine. It is used to detect the loss of nerve cells in an area of the brain 
called the striatum, specifically the cells that release dopamine, a chemical messenger. 
The medicine is used to help in the diagnosis of the following conditions in adults (aged 18 years or 
over): 
  movement disorders such as those in Parkinson’s disease and other related diseases, where a loss 
of nerve cells leads to tremor (shaking), gait disturbance (problems with the way the patient 
walks) and stiffness of the muscles. Because tremor can also occur in ‘essential tremor’ (tremor 
whose cause is unknown), Striascan can help distinguish between essential tremor and diseases 
related to Parkinson’s disease; 
 
dementia (loss of intellectual function). Striascan is used to help distinguish between a type of 
dementia known as ‘dementia with Lewy bodies’ and Alzheimer’s disease. 
Striascan contains the active substance ioflupane (123I) and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Striascan contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the EU called DaTSCAN. For more information on generic medicines, see the 
question-and-answer document here. 
How is Striascan used? 
Striascan can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be used in patients who have been 
referred by a doctor with experience in the management of movement disorders or dementia. 
Striascan is only handled and given by people who have experience in the safe handling of radioactive 
materials. 
Striascan is given by slow injection lasting at least 15 to 20 seconds into an arm vein. A scan is taken 
3 to 6 hours after the injection. Between 1 to 4 hours before receiving Striascan, patients must also 
take another medicine, such as iodine tablets, to prevent the radioactive iodine in Striascan from 
getting into the thyroid gland.  
Resuscitation equipment should be available before Striascan is given, in case the patient has an 
allergic reaction. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Striascan, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Striascan work? 
The active substance in Striascan, ioflupane (123I), is a radiopharmaceutical. It contains a substance 
called ioflupane, which is labelled with 123I (iodine-123), a radioactive form of iodine. Ioflupane 
attaches specifically to structures on nerve cell endings that are responsible for the transport of 
dopamine. 
When Striascan is injected, ioflupane (123I) is distributed by the blood and builds up in the striatum, 
where it attaches to the structures that transport dopamine. This build-up can be seen using an 
imaging technique called single-photon-emission computed tomography (SPECT), which detects the 
radioactive iodine-123. 
In patients with Parkinson’s disease and related diseases, and in patients with dementia with Lewy 
bodies, there is typically a loss of the dopamine-containing nerve cells in the striatum. If this happens, 
the amount of Striascan attaching to these nerve cells is greatly reduced, which can be seen on the 
scan. This enables diseases related to Parkinson’s disease to be distinguished from essential tremor, 
and for Lewy body dementia to be distinguished from Alzheimer’s disease. 
How has Striascan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, DaTSCAN, and do not need to be repeated for Striascan.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Striascan. There was no need 
for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Striascan is absorbed similarly to the reference 
medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because Striascan is 
given by injection into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Striascan? 
Because Striascan is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the 
reference medicine’s. 
Why is Striascan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Striascan has 
been shown to be comparable to DaTSCAN. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for DaTSCAN, 
the benefit of Striascan outweighs the identified risk and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Striascan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Striascan have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Striascan are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Striascan are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Striascan (ioflupane (123I))  
EMA/410451/20199  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Striascan 
Striascan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 June 2019.  
Further information on Striascan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/striascan. Information on the reference medicine can also be 
found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 06-2019. 
Striascan (ioflupane (123I))  
EMA/410451/20199  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
