26 April 2019 
EMA/280752/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Striascan  
International non-proprietary name: ioflupane (123I) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004745/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Striascan 
Applicant: 
CIS BIO International 
Route Nationale 306 
Saclay BP 32 
91192 Gif-Sur-Yvette 
FRANCE 
Active substance: 
IOFLUPANE (123I) 
International non-proprietary 
ioflupane (123I) 
name/Common name: 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
central nervous system, iodine (123I) 
(ATC Code): 
compounds 
(V09AB03) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use 
only. 
Striascan is indicated for detecting loss of 
functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in 
the striatum: 
 
In adult patients with clinically 
uncertain parkinsonian syndromes, for 
example those with early symptoms, in 
order to help differentiate essential 
tremor from parkinsonian syndromes 
related to idiopathic Parkinson’s 
disease, multiple system atrophy and 
progressive supranuclear palsy. 
Striascan is unable to discriminate 
between Parkinson's disease, multiple 
system atrophy and progressive 
supranuclear palsy. 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable 
dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s 
disease. Striascan is unable to discriminate 
between dementia with Lewy bodies and 
Parkinson’s disease dementia. 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Solution for injection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strength(s): 
74 MBq/ml 
Route(s) of administration: 
Intravenous use 
Packaging: 
vial (glass) 
Package size(s): 
1 vial 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance: Ioflupane (123l) ........................................................................ 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 12 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 14 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 15 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 16 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 16 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 17 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 17 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 17 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 17 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 18 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 18 
2.6. Product information ............................................................................................ 19 
2.6.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 19 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 19 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 19 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant CIS BIO International submitted on 2 May 2018 an application for marketing authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Striascan, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 
(3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 26 January 2017. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(30) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Striascan is indicated for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum: 
 
In adult patients with clinically uncertain Parkinsonian Syndromes, for example those with early 
symptoms, in order to help differentiate Essential Tremor from Parkinsonian Syndromes related 
to idiopathic Parkinson’s Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. 
Striascan is unable to discriminate between Parkinson's Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and 
Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. 
 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s 
disease. Striascan is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson’s 
disease dementia. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and the 
reference medicinal product DaTSCAN instead of non-clinical and clinical data. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: DaTSCAN, 74 MBq/ml, solution for injection 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: GE Healthcare Limited 
  Date of authorisation: (27-07-2000) 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Union 
  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/135/001 and EU/1/00/135/002 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: DaTSCAN, 74 MBq/ml, solution for injection 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: GE Healthcare Limited 
  Date of authorisation: (27-07-2000) 
 
 
 
 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Union 
  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/135/001 and EU/1/00/135/002 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
  N/A (this medicinal product is a parenteral preparation. Therefore a bioequivalence study is not 
applicable according to CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Ewa Balkowiec Iskra  Co-Rapporteur: Simona Badoi 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
2 May 2018 
24 May 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
14 August 2018 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
24 August 2018 
members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
20 September 2018 
applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
21 December 2018 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
4 February 2019 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
 
 
 
 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
14 February 2019 
during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
28 February 2019 
applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
27 March 2019 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
10 April 2019 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
26 April 2019 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
marketing authorisation to Striascan on  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application for a marketing authorisation for Striascan solution for injection is submitted under 
Article 10(1) (generic of a reference medicinal product) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended. The 
reference product is DaTSCAN, 74 MBq/ml, solution for injection (GE Healthcare Limited), authorised in 
EU since 27 July 2000 through the centralised procedure. For DaTSCAN two presentations were 
developed for single and total use i.e. 2.5 ml and 5 ml vials, providing 185 MBq per vial and 370 MBq per 
vial respectively, at the reference time (EU/1/00/135/001-002). 
DaTSCAN is indicated for diagnostic use only. DaTSCAN is indicated for detecting loss of functional 
dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum:  
 In adult patients with clinically uncertain Parkinsonian Syndromes, for example those with early 
symptoms, in order to help differentiate Essential Tremor from Parkinsonian Syndromes related to 
idiopathic Parkinson’s Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. DaTSCAN is 
unable to discriminate between Parkinson's Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and Progressive 
Supranuclear Palsy.  
 In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s disease. 
DaTSCAN is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson’s disease 
dementia.  
Ioflupane  (123I),  the  active  ingredient  of  Striascan  is  a  radioiodinated  cocaine  analogue.  This  cocaine 
analogue is a ligand with high affinity to dopamine transporter (DaT) located on the presynaptic nerve 
endings (axon terminals) in the striatum. The axon terminals are projections of the dopamine neurones in 
the substantia nigra. Therefore, binding of ioflupane (123I) in the striatum is claimed to reflect the number 
of  dopaminergic  neurones  in  the  substantia  nigra.  It  has  been  developed  as  a  dopamine  transporter 
imaging agent for single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The technique is claimed to be 
sensitive  enough  to  differentiate  changes  in  the  nigrostriatal  dopaminergic  system  in  patients  with 
Parkinsonism and healthy controls. 
Parkinson's  disease  is  characterised  by  akinesia,  rigidity  and  abnormal  involuntary  movements.  True 
Parkinsonian  syndrome  includes  conditions  like  multiple  system  atrophy  (MSA)  and  progressive 
 
 
supranuclear palsy (PSP), in addition to Parkinson's disease. This syndrome is characterised by the loss of 
dopaminergic cells and the resultant decrease in striatal dopamine. The prevalence in the community of 
Parkinson's disease, MSA and PSP are approximately 82%, 10% and 8% respectively. Essential tremor 
(ET) is often confused clinically with Parkinson's disease and related syndromes but is not associated with 
nigrostriatal degeneration. DaTSCAN is presented as a sterile 5% (v/v) ethanolic solution for intravenous 
injection  and  should  be  used  without  dilution.  The  recommended  dose  for  adults  and  the  elderly  is 
111-185 MBq. DaTSCAN is not recommended for use in children or adolescents, as data are not available 
for these age groups. Patients must undergo appropriate thyroid blocking treatment prior to injection to 
minimise thyroid uptake of radioactive iodine.  SPECT imaging should take place  between three to six 
hours post injection. 
Ioflupane (123I) also binds to the serotonin transporter on 5-Hydroxytryptamin (5-HT) neurons but with 
approximately  10-fold  lower  binding  affinity.  There  is  no  experience  in  types  of  tremor  other  than 
essential tremor. 
The applicant is seeking all of the indications and dosing regimens for which DaTSCAN is registered in the 
EU. 
The dosage form and route of administration is identical to DaTSCAN.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as solution for injection containing 74 MBq/mL of ioflupane (123I) at 
reference time (0.07 to 0.13 μg/mL of ioflupane) as active substance. 
Each 2.5 mL single dose vial contains 185 MBq ioflupane (123I) (specific activity range 2.5 to 4.5 x 1014 
Bq/mmol) at reference time. 
Each 5 mL single dose vial contains 370 MBq ioflupane (123I) (specific activity range 2.5 to 4.5 x 1014 
Bq/mmol) at reference time. 
Other ingredients are: acetic acid, glacial (E 260), sodium acetate, trihydrate (E 262), ethanol, anhydrous 
(E 1510), phosphoric acid, concentrated (E 338), and water for injections. 
The product is available in amber glass vial sealed with a rubber closure and metal overseal, the vial is 
placed into a lead container for protective shielding and packed in a metal box as described in section 6.5 
of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active substance: Ioflupane (123l) 
General information (Active substance) 
The chemical name of the active substance is [I-123] 8-Azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane-2-carboxylic acid, 
8-(3-fluoropropyl)-3-(4-iodophenyl)-, methyl ester, (1R,2S,3S,5S) corresponding to the molecular 
formula C18H23F123INO2. It has a relative molecular mass of 427.285 g/mol and the following structure: 
 
Figure 1: Active substance structure 
As the final steps of the active substance manufacture involve a continuous process leading to the finished 
product, the final active substance is not isolated. Therefore, no formal structure elucidation of the final 
active substance has been performed. 
As the final active substance is not isolated during the manufacturing process, no information regarding 
its general properties can be provided. 
The active substance is soluble in water and ethanol. The carbon bearing the methyl ester function is a 
chiral centre. The product used is the enantiomer β form. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls (Active substance) 
The active substance is an iodinated cocaine analogue. The manufacturing process consists of preparing 
the labelled product by electrophilic radioiodination from a Sn-FP-CT precursor. The active substance is 
synthesised in 3 main stages: 
1.  Manufacture of precursor  
2.  Manufacture of intermediate (Sodium Iodide (123I) solution (Na123I)) 
3.  Manufacture of final active substance (Ioflupane (123I); 
1. Precursor:  
General information (Precursor) 
The chemical name of the precursor Sn-FP-CT is 8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane-2-carboxylic acid, 
8-(3-fluoropropyl)-3-[4-(trialkylstannyl)phenyl]-, methyl ester, (1R,2S,3S,5S)-. It has a relative 
molecular mass of 594.43 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: Precursor (Sn-FP-CT) structure 
 
 
The chemical structure of Sn-FP-CT was elucidated by a combination of IR spectrometry, 1H-NMR, 
13C-NMR, 119Sn-NMR, 19F-NMR, mass spectrometry.  
The precursor is a colourless to yellowish droplets, soluble in ethanol, chloroform, acetone and 
acetonitrile, not soluble in water.  
Sn-FP-CT exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of 1 chiral centre. The precursor used is the 
enantiomer β form. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls (Precursor) 
The precursor is synthesised in 5 main steps using well defined starting materials with acceptable 
specifications 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the precursor and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Specification (Precursor) 
The precursor specification includes tests for appearance (visual), Sn-FP-CT identification (IR, LC), 
residual solvents (GC), organic impurities content (LC), residues of catalysts or metal residues (atomic 
absorption spectrometry), microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.), and purity 
(LC). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for testing has 
been presented. 
Batch analysis data of the precursor are provided. The results are within the specifications and consistent 
from batch to batch. 
Stability (Precursor) 
Stability data from 3 commercial scale batches of the precursor from the proposed manufacturer stored 
in the intended commercial package for up to 6 months under long term conditions (-20°C, 5°C) and for 
up to 6 months under accelerated conditions ( 25 °C / 60% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were 
provided. A stress study was conducted on one batch stored at 40oC ± 2oC/ 75 % ± 5% RH over a period 
of 5 days, for shipping condition. 
The parameters tested are the same as for release.  The analytical methods used were the same as for 
release and were stability indicating. 
All the stability results reported comply with the specification. Moreover, the stability data collected for 
the accelerated storage conditions (25 °C / 60% RH) did not demonstrate any critical degradation. The 
result for shipping conditions confirms the overall stability of the precursor. The stability results indicate 
that the precursor manufactured by the proposed supplier is sufficiently stable. The stability results justify 
the proposed retest period of 6 months stored at 5 °C ± 3oC in the proposed container. 
2. Intermediate: Sodium Iodide (123I) solution (Na123I) 
General information (Intermediate) 
Sodium iodide (123I) is supplied by several manufacturers and separated information is provided for each 
manufacturer.   
The chemical name of sodium iodide is sodium iodide (123I) corresponding to the molecular formula 
Na123I. It has a relative molecular mass of 146 g/mol.  
123I isotope is identified by gamma spectrometry  
The sodium iodide is supplied as a clear and colourless solution.  
Sodium iodide (123I) has a non - chiral molecular structure and polymorphism has not been observed.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls (Intermediate) 
Sodium iodide (123I) is manufactured by several manufacturers.  
All manufacturers prepare Iodine (123I) by irradiation, with 30 MeV protons in a cyclotron, of the xenon 
(124Xe) gas target . 
Adequate in-process control is applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
other intermediate products are not applicable in this case The characterisation of the intermediate 
(sodium iodide (123I) solution) and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on chemistry of 
new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Specification (Intermediate) 
The  intermediate  (sodium  iodide  (123I)  solution  (Na123I))  specification  complies  with  Ph.  Eur.  2314 
(sodium  iodide  (123I)  solution  for  radiolabelling),  current  edition.  It  includes  tests  for  appearance, 
identification (Ph. Eur.), alkalinity (Ph. Eur.), radionuclidic purity (Ph. Eur), radioactive concentration (Ph. 
Eur).   
The control tests were carried out to comply with the specifications and test methods of the Ph. Eur. 
monograph. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for testing has been 
presented. 
Batch analysis data of the intermediate (sodium iodide (123I) solution) are provided. The results are within 
the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability (Intermediate) 
Stability data from 3 commercial batches from the suppliers stored in the intended commercial package 
for up to 3 days in the production area at a temperature ≤ 25 °C are provided. The end of the production 
corresponds to the distribution of the solution in the flask at the end of the purification process.  
The parameters tested are the same as for release.  The analytical methods used were the same as for 
release and were stability indicating. All tested parameters were within the specifications. 
The stability results indicate that the intermediate manufactured by the proposed suppliers is sufficiently 
stable.    The  stability  results  demonstrate  that  the  3  suppliers  for  intermediate  (sodium  iodide  (123I) 
solution) have provided batches compliant with the specifications. When stored in the production area at 
a  temperature  ≤  25°C,  the  shelf-life  is  set  from  29  to  54  hours  after  manufacturing  depending  the 
manufacturer.   
3. Final active substance (Ioflupane (123I)) 
The final active substance (Ioflupane (123I)) is synthesised from a key starting material Sn-FP-CT via 
oxidative iododestannylation with sodium (123I)-iodide.  
This manufacturing process is continuous; thus, the final active substance is not isolated and is directly 
processed to finished product manufacture. Consequently, no control is performed on synthesis 
intermediates or on the final active substance and consequently, there is no specific active substance 
container. The active substance impurities are assessed in the finished product. For a radioactive active 
substance this approach is acceptable 
Specification (Active substance) 
The final active substance (Ioflupane-I-123) is manufactured through a continuous process leading to the 
finished product without isolation of the active substance. Therefore, the complete description of 
specification, analytical procedures, validation of analytical procedures, batch analysis and justification of 
specification are described for the finished product only. For radioactive active substance this approach is 
acceptable. 
Stability (Active substance) 
The final active substance (Ioflupane-I-123) is manufactured through a continuous process leading to the 
finished product without isolation of the active substance. Therefore, no data is presented on stability of 
the final active substance. For radioactive active substance this approach is acceptable. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product (Striascan) is a solution for injection containing 123I-ioflupane in acetic acid / acetate 
buffer (containing 5.0 % of ethanol) having a radioactive concentration of 74 MBq/mL at reference time. 
Striascan is packaged in monodose vials. The minimum and maximum volumes dispensed per vial are 
respectively 2.5 mL and 5 mL. Considering that the radioactive concentration at reference date and time 
is 74 MBq/mL, the total activity per vial is respectively 185 MBq (2.5 mL vial) and 370 MBq (5 mL vial) at 
reference date and time.  
Striascan is a generic medicinal product. The reference medicinal product is DaTSCAN 74 MBq/mL, 
solution for injection, authorised in the European Union on 27 July 2000. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
The objective of the formulation development was to produce a generic product showing the same 
qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance and excipients as DaTSCAN and also with the 
same physicochemical characteristics in terms of radioactive concentration, specific activity at reference 
time and impurity profile. It was shown that the generic medicinal product is identical to the reference 
medicinal product with regards to: pharmaceutical form, nature and amount of the active substance, the 
specific activity at reference time , radioactivity, to ioflupane content, the radioactive concentration at 
reference time, 74 MBq/mL,  the nature and amount of solvent,  the nature of the buffer, the amount of 
acetate buffer (based on analytical results), the pH of the solution (based on analytical results), the 
impurity profile (based on analytical results), and the decay product (physical process inherent to 
 
radioactivity). Therefore, no bioequivalence study is needed according to the guideline on the 
investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98Rev.1/ Corr**) for parenteral solutions. 
The process initially developed led to the manufacture of a finished product complying to the specification 
of the reference medicinal product, with one impurity contained in the precursor. The current process has 
been upgraded to remove this impurity from the finished product. 
Ioflupane is known to be sensitive to heat. Therefore, the process was adapted to include a sterilising 
filtration. The ioflupane (123I) solution is dispensed in an aseptic environment after sterilising filtration 
process with relevant control of sterility and bubble point testing and subsequent filling of the product into 
pre-sterilized vials under EU grade A environment. 
Extraction experiments have been performed by the applicant without any deviation from the protocol. 
Extractable analyses are currently on going and results will be provided through a Post Authorisation 
Measure procedure. From the study report a risk analysis on potential toxicity of extractables will be 
performed to define the leachable study protocol if applicable. The CHMP recommends implementing data 
on the leachable test, if applicable, when the results from extractable study will be available. 
The primary packaging is amber glass vial sealed with a rubber closure and metal overseal. The material 
complies  with  Ph.Eur.  and  EC  requirements.  The  choice  of  the  container  closure  system  has  been 
validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The finished product manufacturing process consists of 3 main steps: dilution, sterilisation by filtration, 
dispensing and packaging. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
The major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated in three commercial scale batches by 
a number of studies. It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing 
the finished product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate 
for this type of manufacturing process.  
Product specification  
The finished product specifications include  appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form; appearance 
(visual  examination),  radionuclidic  identification  (gamma-ray  spectrometry),  ioflupane  identification 
(LC),  radionuclidic  purity  (gamma-ray  spectrometry),  pH,  specific  activity  (LC),  acetaldehyde  (GC), 
sterility  (Ph.  Eur.),  bacterial  endotoxins  (Ph.  Eur.),  radioactive  concentration  (Ionization  chamber), 
radiochemical purity (LC), and ethanol content (GC). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for testing has 
been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through 
traditional final product release testing. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 3 commercial scale batches of finished product stored for up to 35 h for the 2.5 mL vial 
and up to 48 h for the 5.0 mL-vial, after manufacture under long term conditions (25 ºC ± 2°C) and under 
accelerated  conditions  (40  ºC  ±  2°C)  according  to  the  ICH  guidelines  were  provided.  The  batches  of 
medicinal  product  are  identical  to  those  proposed  for  marketing  and  were  packed  in  the  primary 
packaging proposed for marketing.  
The parameters tested are the same as for release. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating. 
All the stability results comply with the specifications. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of EOS (end of synthesis) + 35h for the 2.5 mL 
presentation and EOS  (end of synthesis)+ 48 h for the 5.0 mL presentation as stated in the SmPC 
(section 6.3) are acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
 No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a one minor unresolved quality issue having no impact on the 
benefit/risk ratio of the product. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following point for investigation: 
- To implement data on the leachable test, if applicable, when the results from extractable study will be 
available. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
At start of this procedure several ERA-related concerns were raised. Main issues were related to PEC 
calculation and lacking Kow data. PEC calculation was based on a refined Fpen according to the sales 
forecast of the product (DaTSCAN and STRIASCAN) in the 8 countries where the product will be registered 
or is already marketed (Spain, Italy, Germany, UK, France, The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg). This 
was not considered acceptable. In accordance with the Questions and answers on 'Guideline on the 
environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use' (EMA/CHMP/SWP/44609/2010 Rev. 
1), prevalence data for the sought indication(s) (independent data bases or literature) which are not 
linked to consumption data, but to case numbers are needed for a correction of the market penetration 
factor. Later in the procedure the Applicant  presented an updated PEC calculation as well as Kow 
literature data. The concerns related to PEC calculations were considered resolved, although, according to 
Question 6, Q&A on Guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use 
(EMA/CHMP/SWP/44609/2010 Rev.˚ 1.) the Applicant was asked to provide the study report of an 
experimentally determined n-octanol/ water partition coefficient (log Kow) for ioflupane (123I). The 
provided response was considered to be in agreement with Question 6, Q&A on Guideline on the 
environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use and the determined Log Dow was 
well below 4.5., thus allowing the CHMP to consider all of the concerns regarding ERA, resolved.  
It was concluded that introduction of Striascan manufactured by CIS BIO International is considered 
unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all ioflupane (123I) 
containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is 
expected to be similar. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of ioflupane are known. As ioflupane is a 
widely used, well-known active substance, the applicant has not conducted additional nonclinical 
pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetics, toxicology, reproductive toxicology, genotoxicity or 
carcinogenicity studies. Overview based on literature review is, thus, appropriate. 
Ioflupane has been used in neuro-imaging diagnostic of Parkinson's disease and the differential diagnosis 
of Parkinson's disease over other disorders presenting similar symptoms and to help distinguish between 
dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer’s disease, since 2000 and has been approved by EMA as 
DaTSCAN solution for injection. The biowaiver has been requested since the proposed medicinal product 
has an identical qualitative and quantitative composition in the active substance available at the reference 
time compared to the approved reference medicinal product 74 MBq/mL of ioflupane (123I) and the same 
pharmaceutical form and route of administration as an aqueous solution for injection for intravenous use. 
Therefore, in this submission, the non-clinical information was based on the literature review and 
non-clinical data from DaTSCAN development.  
The present nonclinical literature review does not bring any additional data that from the regulatory point 
of view would change the safety profile of ioflupane in its present clinical use.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview has been provided and was based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature 
and environmental risk assessment. The CHMP is of the opinion that the applicant has justified the lack of 
non-clinical studies based on the literature review and the claim that Striascan is a generic of the 
reference product DaTSCAN.  
The CHMP considered this application acceptable from non-clinical point of view. 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for solution for injection containing ioflupane (123I).  
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well 
as efficacy and safety of ioflupane (123I) based on published literature. The relevant SmPC sections are 
in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP has been requested for this medicinal product. 
GCP 
The Applicant did not submit clinical trials in this application. 
Exemption  
Striascan has been developed as a pharmaceutical equivalent of DaTSCAN solution for injection. 
Striascan is essentially similar to the approved reference product, DaTSCAN; it is qualitatively and 
quantitatively identical in composition to that of DaTSCAN. The active ingredient, dosage form, route of 
administration and strength of are identical to those of the reference medicinal product. Striascan is 
presented in packs of 1 vial containing 2.5 mL or 5 mL of solution, which is the same as registered 
presentations of reference product. 
The biowaiver was requested by the Applicant. 
According to the guideline on the investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr 
**): “Bioequivalence studies are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as 
aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved product”. 
As the route of administration is intravenous, the qualitative and quantitative composition in active 
substance is identical and no excipient interaction occurs with the drug substance, bioequivalence studies 
are not required. 
Therefore for Striascan the essential similarity with the reference medicinal product was only based on 
pharmaceutical equivalence. 
Striascan has the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance as the reference 
medicinal product DaTSCAN 74 MBq/mL solution for injection (GE Healthcare Limited) and the same 
pharmaceutical form and route of administration. 
The excipients of the proposed drug product are identical to the reference product DaTSCAN, with the 
exception of phosphoric acid, that is presented in the composition of the claimed generic medicinal 
product Striascan and it is used in the elution solution of HPLC purification of the reaction mixture. 
Data concerning the proportion between the radioactive and non-radioactive forms of ioflupane (ratio of 
“hot” - I-123 and “cold” - I-127 forms) confirms the similarity between both products. 
Specification of the specific activity of ioflupane is 2.5 to 4.5x1014 Bq/mmol at the reference time for both 
Striascan and DaTSCAN. For the two products, the reference time is equally set at 28 hours and 35 hours 
from the end of the manufacturing process for the 2.5-mL single-dose vial and the 5-mL single-dose vial 
respectively. 
Striascan composition is identical to that of DaTSCAN with regard to the nature and amount of the active 
substance, the specific activity, the radioactivity concentration, the nature and amount of solubiliser, with 
only minor differences in excipient composition. These minor differences have no effect on biodistribution 
of the tracer. 
Therefore, general biowaiver-criteria are fulfilled according to the Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1). 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No new pharmacokinetic studies were submitted. In view of the i.v. injection, 100% availability can be 
assumed.  The physical half-life of 123I is 13.2 hours. 
No bioequivalence study was submitted and no study is required according to the Guideline on the 
Investigation of Bioequivalence biowaiver-criteria are fulfilled. The company has presented literature 
review in support of this application which was accepted by the CHMP. 
According to literature data at 1 hour post-injection of 100 MBq ioflupane (123I), the total blood activity 
was on average 53% IA, and slowly decreased thereafter. The levels of radioactivity were highest in the 
lungs, liver and brain. The images showed rapid lung uptake and hepatobiliary excretion. The highest 
absorbed doses were in the urinary bladder wall and lungs. Brain uptake was approximately 7% of the 
injected activity, with 30% of this concentrated in the striatum (2.1% IA). The mean urinary excretion at 
48 hours post-injection was 60% ± 9% and mean predicted fecal excretion was 14% ± 1%. Radiation 
dose estimates confirmed an effective dose of 0.024 mSv/MBq 10,75. The self-dose to the striatum was 
estimated to be 0.23 mGy/MBq. 
Only one metabolite has been identified in human plasma, which was believed to be free carboxylic acid 
form of FP CIT formed by enzymatic hydrolysis of the methyl ester group. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
No new pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic studies were submitted. A summary of the literature with 
regard to clinical data of Striascan and justifications that the active substance does not differ significantly 
in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product was provided and was accepted 
by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were not 
considered necessary.  
Striascan is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous injection and contains the same active 
ingredient in the same concentration and pharmaceutical formulation using the same route of 
administration as for the reference product. It has an identical qualitative and quantitative composition in 
terms of the active substance as its reference medicinal product and also contains the same excipients. As 
it is indicated for intravenous administration and in accordance to CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1, 
Appendix II, Parenteral solutions, bioequivalence can be concluded without the need for further studies. 
There are no differences in non-clinical or clinical effects that are expected. Safety profile is comparable 
to that of reference product.  
 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the applicant has justified the lack of clinical studies based on the claim 
that Striascan is a generic of the reference product DaTSCAN. As the product contains the same active 
ingredient in the same concentration and pharmaceutical formulation using the same route of 
administration as for the reference product, the lack of bioequivalence studies is considered acceptable. 
The literature data and the publicly available information presented in the dossier are considered 
acceptable and sufficient for the assessment of clinical aspects of Striascan in the applied indications. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
Increased risk of radiation exposure in patients with renal and hepatic 
impairment 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Not applicable 
Risk minimisation measures 
Summary table of pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation activities by safety 
concern 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Increased risk of radiation 
exposure in patients with renal 
and hepatic impairment 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures: 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 
PL section 2 
This medicinal product is for use 
in hospitals or in designated 
nuclear medicine facilities only 
and should be handled by 
persons experienced in 
radioisotope diagnostic imaging. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: None 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection:  
Not applicable 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: Not applicable 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.4 is acceptable.  
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.6.  Product information 
2.6.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of ioflupane (123I) solution for injection. The reference 
product DaTSCAN is indicated for for diagnostic use only for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic 
neuron terminals in the striatum: 
 
In adult patients with clinically uncertain Parkinsonian Syndromes, for example those with early 
symptoms, in order to help differentiate Essential Tremor from Parkinsonian Syndromes related to 
idiopathic Parkinson’s Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy.  
DaTSCAN is unable to discriminate between Parkinson's Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and 
Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. 
 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s 
disease. 
DaTSCAN is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson’s disease 
dementia. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
A bioequivalence study was not submitted and this was considered acceptable as Striascan contains the 
same active ingredient in the same concentration and pharmaceutical formulation using the same route 
of administration (parenteral) as for the reference product. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond 
those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Striascan is favourable in the following indication: 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Striascan is indicated for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum: 
 
In adult patients with clinically uncertain parkinsonian syndromes, for example those with early 
symptoms, in order to help differentiate essential tremor from parkinsonian syndromes related to 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy. 
Striascan is unable to discriminate between Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy and 
progressive supranuclear palsy. 
 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s 
disease. Striascan is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson’s 
disease dementia. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
 
