EMA/CHMP/249031/2016  
EMEA/H/C/003854 
EPAR summary for the public 
Strimvelis 
Autologous CD34+ enriched cell fraction that contains CD34+ cells 
transduced with retroviral vector that encodes for the human ADA cDNA 
sequence 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Strimvelis. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Strimvelis. 
For practical information about using Strimvelis, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Strimvelis and what is it used for? 
Strimvelis is a medicine used to treat severe combined immunodeficiency due to adenosine deaminase 
deficiency (ADA-SCID). ADA-SCID is a rare inherited condition in which there is a change (mutation) in 
the gene needed to make an enzyme called adenosine deaminase (ADA). As a result, patients lack the 
ADA enzyme. Because ADA is essential for maintaining healthy lymphocytes (white blood cells that 
fight off infections), the immune system of patients with ADA-SCID does not work properly and without 
effective treatment they rarely survive more than 2 years.  
Strimvelis is used in patients with ADA-SCID who cannot be treated by a bone-marrow transplant 
because they do not have a suitable, matched, related donor. 
Strimvelis contains cells derived from the patient’s own bone marrow. Some of the cells (called CD34+ 
cells) have been genetically modified to contain a working gene for ADA. Strimvelis is a type of 
advanced therapy medicine called a ‘gene therapy product’. This type of medicine works by delivering 
genes into the body. 
Because the number of patients with ADA-SCID is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and Strimvelis 
was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 26 August 2005. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Strimvelis used? 
Strimvelis can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should only be given in a specialist 
transplant centre by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of ADA-SCID and the use of this 
type of medicine. 
To prepare Strimvelis, two samples of the patient’s bone marrow are collected, one to make Strimvelis 
and one that is kept as a back-up in case Strimvelis cannot be given or does not work. Strimvelis can 
only be used to treat the same patient whose bone marrow was used to make the medicine. Strimvelis 
is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein over about 20 minutes. The dose depends on the bodyweight 
of the patient. 
Before Strimvelis is given, patients receive conditioning (preparatory) treatment with another 
medicine, busulfan, to get rid of their abnormal bone marrow cells. Patients are also given an 
antihistamine injection just before treatment to reduce the risk of allergic reactions. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Strimvelis work? 
To make Strimvelis, a sample of the patient’s bone marrow is collected. Then, CD34+ cells (cells that 
can make lymphocytes) are extracted from the bone marrow cells. A working gene for ADA is inserted 
into the CD34+ cells using a type of virus called a retrovirus, which has been altered genetically so 
that it can carry the ADA gene into cells and does not cause viral disease in humans. 
Once given back to the patient into a vein, Strimvelis is transported in the bloodstream to the bone 
marrow where the CD34+ cells start to grow and make normal lymphocytes that can produce ADA. 
These lymphocytes improve the patient’s ability to fight infection, and so overcome the symptoms of 
the condition related to the immune system. The effects are expected to last for the patient’s lifetime. 
What benefits of Strimvelis have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Strimvelis have been shown in one main study involving 12 patients from 6 months to 
around 6 years old with ADA-SCID. Patients in the study had no appropriate bone marrow donor and 
alternative treatment had not worked or was not available. All patients were treated with Strimvelis 
and were still alive 3 years after treatment. The rate of severe infections declined after treatment and 
continued to decline with longer-term follow-up beyond 3 years. 
What are the risks associated with Strimvelis? 
The most common side effect with Strimvelis (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) is pyrexia 
(fever). Serious side effects with Strimvelis may include effects linked to autoimmunity (when the 
immune system attacks the body’s own cells) such as haemolytic anaemia (low red blood cell counts 
due to their too rapid breakdown), aplastic anaemia (low blood cell counts due to damaged bone 
marrow), hepatitis (liver inflammation), thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet count) and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome (damage to nerves that can result in pain, numbness, muscle weakness and difficulty 
walking).  
Strimvelis must not be used in patients who have leukaemia (cancer of white blood cells) or 
myelodysplasia (a type of bone marrow disorder) or have had these conditions in the past. It must not 
be used in patients who have tested positive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV, the virus that 
causes AIDS) or some other infections, or in patients who have previously had gene therapy 
treatment. 
Strimvelis  
EMA/CHMP/249031/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
For the full list of restrictions and side effects reported with Strimvelis, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Strimvelis approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Strimvelis’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. Strimvelis 
provides the opportunity of a cure that improves the working of the immune system for patients with 
ADA-SCID, which is a life-threatening condition. Results from the main study show that Strimvelis is 
effective at improving survival of ADA-SCID patients. Regarding safety, Strimvelis was relatively well 
tolerated although data are limited due to the small number of patients studied. Because Strimvelis is 
produced using a retrovirus, there could be a potential risk of cancer caused by unintended changes in 
the genetic material, although no such cases have been seen so far. There is also a potential risk of 
autoimmune disease. However, measures are in place to monitor such events once the medicine is in 
use by using a registry of patients to study their long-term progress. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Strimvelis? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Strimvelis is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Strimvelis, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that makes Strimvelis will provide educational materials for patients and 
healthcare professionals with information on the medicine, and patients will have to sign a consent 
form before treatment is started. The company will also maintain a registry of patients treated with 
Strimvelis and monitor their progress regularly after treatment to study the long-term safety of the 
medicine. 
Other information about Strimvelis 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Strimvelis on 26 May 2016. 
The full EPAR for Strimvelis can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Strimvelis, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Strimvelis can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designation. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2016. 
Strimvelis  
EMA/CHMP/249031/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
