ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See section 
4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Strimvelis 1-10 x 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
2.1  General description 
An autologous CD34+ enriched cell fraction that contains CD34+ cells transduced with retroviral vector that 
encodes for the human adenosine deaminase (ADA) cDNA sequence from human haematopoietic 
stem/progenitor (CD34+) cells. 
2.2  Qualitative and quantitative composition 
The medicinal product is packaged in one or more infusion bags. Each patient-specific infusion bag of 
Strimvelis contains an autologous CD34+ enriched cell fraction that contains CD34+ cells transduced with 
retroviral vector that encodes for the human ADA cDNA sequence. 
The quantitative information regarding CD34+ cells/kg and total cells in the product is presented in the 
labelling for each batch. The concentration is 1-10 x 106 CD34+ cells/mL.  
Excipient with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 0.15 mmol sodium per mL.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Dispersion for infusion. 
A cloudy to clear, colourless to pink dispersion of cells.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Strimvelis is indicated for the treatment of patients with severe combined immunodeficiency due to 
adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID), for whom no suitable human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-
matched related stem cell donor is available (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Strimvelis must be administered in a specialist transplant centre, by a physician with previous experience in 
the treatment and management of patients with ADA-SCID and in the use of autologous CD34+ ex vivo gene 
therapy products. It should only be administered after consultation with the patient and/or family. Patients 
are expected to enrol in a post-treatment registry and will be followed-up long term. 
Strimvelis is intended for autologous use only (see section 4.4). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A CD34+ stem cell back-up containing at least 1 x 106 CD34+ cells per kg is required. This should be 
harvested from the patient at least 3 weeks prior to treatment with Strimvelis. The stem cell back-up is 
collected for use as rescue treatment should there be a failure during product manufacture, transplant failure, 
or prolonged bone marrow aplasia after treatment. 
The patient must be able to donate sufficient CD34+ cells to deliver a minimum of 4 x 106 purified 
CD34+ cells/kg, required for manufacture of Strimvelis. 
Before infusion, it must be confirmed that the patient’s identity matches the essential unique patient 
information on the medicinal product infusion bag(s) and/or container (see sections 4.4 and 6.6).  
Pre-treatment conditioning 
It is recommended that 0.5 mg/kg intravenous busulfan be administered every 6 hours on two consecutive 
days starting three days before administration of Strimvelis. The total busulfan dose is 4 mg/kg, divided into 
8 doses of 0.5 mg/kg.  Busulfan plasma levels should be measured after the first dose of each day by serial 
blood sampling using an appropriate method.  If busulfan AUC exceeds 4000 nanograms/mL*h 
(974 µmol/L*minute), the dose should be appropriately reduced based on the AUC. 
Pre-medication 
It is recommended that an intravenous antihistamine be administered 15-30 minutes before the infusion of 
Strimvelis. 
Posology 
The recommended dose range of Strimvelis is between 2 and 20 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg. 
If the product contains less than 2 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg, the treating physician should decide whether to 
proceed with administration, based on an individual benefit risk assessment. Treatment failure was observed 
in a patient treated in the clinical trials with <2 x 106 CD34+cell/kg. 
Strimvelis should be administered once only. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
This medicinal product is not intended for use in patients >65 years of age and has not been studied in this 
age group. 
Renal impairment 
This medicinal product has not been studied in patients with renal impairment. No dose adjustment is 
expected to be required. 
Hepatic impairment 
This medicinal product has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. No dose adjustment is 
expected to be required. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Strimvelis in children less than six months or over 6 years and 7 months of age 
has not been established (see section 4.4). No data are available.  
Method of administration  
Strimvelis is for intravenous infusion only. 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Healthcare professionals should take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves and glasses) to avoid potential 
transmission of infectious diseases when handling the product. 
For instructions on preparation, accidental exposure and disposal of Strimvelis, see section 6.6. 
A transfusion administration set with filter should be used. Only filters intended for use with transfusion sets 
should be used to prevent inadvertent removal of cells from the product.  
The infusion rate should not exceed 5 mL/kg/h. The period of administration is approximately 20 minutes 
(see section 6.6).  Following administration, a 50 mL syringe filled with a sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection should be used to flush the bag through. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the product or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Current or previous history of leukaemia or myelodysplasia. 
Positive test for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or presence of any other transmissible infectious 
agent listed in the current EU Cell and Tissue Directive prior to bone marrow harvest. 
History of previous gene therapy. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
The traceability requirements of cell-based advanced therapy medicinal products must apply. To ensure 
traceability the name of the product, the batch number and the name of the treated patient should be kept for 
a period of 30 years. 
Autologous use 
Strimvelis is intended solely for autologous use and should never be administered to any patient other than 
the original CD34+ cell donor. 
Risk of insertional oncogenesis  
One case of Lymphoid T cell leukaemia has been reported in a child with ADA-SCID 4.7 years after 
treatment with Strimvelis (see section 4.8). 
It is recommended that patients be monitored long term with at least annual visits for the first eleven years 
and then at 13 and 15 years post treatment with Strimvelis, to include a complete blood count with 
differential, biochemistry and thyroid stimulating hormone. 
General 
The long-term effects and durability of response to Strimvelis on ADA-SCID have not been systematically 
assessed beyond 8 years after treatment (see section 5.1).  
Non-immunological manifestations of ADA-SCID may not respond to Strimvelis.  
Cases of skin papillomas, abnormal serum protein electrophoresis and one case each of lipofibroma, 
pulmonary mass and decreased T-cell V beta repertoire were reported. No evidence of causality of the 
product has been established.  
In some cases, the patient may be unable to receive treatment because of manufacturing issues. After 
notification, the treating physician may need to modify the treatment program of the patient accordingly (i.e. 
terminating the busulfan conditioning and/or administration of the stem cell back up treatment if 
appropriate). 
Warnings and precautions of the myeloablative conditioning medicinal products must be considered.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune reconstitution 
During the clinical studies, T-lymphocyte (CD3+) and NK (CD56+) cell counts improved following 
treatment.  Median values at 3-years post gene therapy were below the normal range. Continued follow-up is 
recommended.   
Central venous catheter (CVC) complications including infections and thromboses 
Adverse events related to the use of central venous catheters (CVCs) have been reported (e.g., serious CVC 
infections and thrombosis in the device). Patients should be closely monitored for potential catheter-related 
events. 
Hypersensitivity and infusion-related reactions 
This medicinal product should be used with caution in patients with hypersensitivity to aminoglycosides or 
bovine serum albumin. 
Engraftment failure 
There have been cases where treatment has been unsuccessful. Some patients have had to resume long-term 
enzyme replacement therapy and/or receive a stem cell transplant (see section 5.1). 
Patients should be closely monitored for the occurrence of severe and opportunistic infections, immune 
reconstitution parameters and the need for replacement intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG); in case of lack 
of response, it is recommended to introduce other ADA-SCID treatments under the supervision of a 
physician.  
Transmission of an infectious agent 
A small risk of transmission of infectious agents exists. Healthcare professionals administering Strimvelis 
should therefore monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infections after treatment and treat 
appropriately, if needed.  
Autoimmunity and immunogenicity 
Patients with ADA-SCID can develop autoimmunity. In clinical studies, 67% (12 of 18) of treated patients 
had either autoimmune antibodies or other manifestations (e.g. autoimmune thrombocytopenia, autoimmune 
aplastic anaemia, autoimmune hepatitis and Guillain-Barré syndrome) (see section 4.8). Regular monitoring 
for clinical autoimmunity is recommended. 
No immunogenicity testing has been conducted with Strimvelis. 
Treatment of patients younger than 6 months and older than 6 years and 7 months  
The treatment should be used with caution in patients younger than 6 months and older than 6 years and 
7 months as there are no clinical data in these age ranges. Older patients are typically less able to donate high 
numbers of CD34+ cells which may mean that older patients cannot be treated.  Successful generation of T 
cells after treatment is also likely to be affected by residual thymic function which can become impaired in 
older children. Use of this medicinal product in patients older than those previously studied should be 
carefully considered and reserved only for occasions where all other reasonable treatment options have been 
exhausted. 
Serological testing 
All patients should be tested for HIV-1/2, HTLV-1/2, HBV, HCV and mycoplasma prior to bone marrow 
harvest to ensure acceptance of the cellular source material for Strimvelis manufacturing.  
Patients who have previously tested positive for hepatitis C can be treated with Strimvelis, provided they 
demonstrate absence of ongoing infection using a nucleic acid test with a limit of quantification of ≤15 
international units/mL. Negative test results are required on at least 3 sequential occasions over a period of at 
least 4 weeks, after completion of treatment for hepatitis C, with the final test conducted no more than 3 days 
prior to cell harvest. 
Blood, organ, tissue and cell donation 
Patients treated with Strimvelis should not donate blood, organs, tissues and cells for transplantation, at any 
time in the future. This information is provided in the Patient Alert Card.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After Strimvelis administration 
Stage two quality control results will only be available after the product has been infused.  If clinically 
relevant quality issues, such as out of specification results, are identified after the medicinal product has been 
infused, the treating physician will be notified. The physician should monitor and/or treat the patient as 
appropriate.  
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains 42 to 137 mg sodium per dose, which is equivalent to 2 to 7% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. Strimvelis is not expected to interact with the hepatic 
cytochrome P-450 family of enzymes or drug transporters.  
Live vaccines 
The safety of immunisation with live viral vaccines following Strimvelis treatment has not been studied. 
Vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended during the 6 weeks preceding the start of non-
myeloablative conditioning, and until haematological and immunological recovery following treatment with 
Strimvelis. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
As Strimvelis is not intended for use in adults, human data on use during pregnancy or lactation and animal 
reproduction studies are not available.  
With regard to fertility, consult the SmPC of the conditioning medicinal product. It should be noted that the 
treating physician should inform the patient’s parents/carers about options for cryopreservation of 
spermatogonial stem cells or ovarian tissue. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Strimvelis has no or negligible long-term influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of Strimvelis was evaluated in 33 subjects i.e. 22 patients treated in the clinical development 
program and 11 patients treated in the commercial setting, with a median duration of follow-up of 12 years 
for patients treated in clinical studies and 1.5 years for patients treated in the commercial setting. 
Given the small patient population and size of the cohorts, adverse reactions in the table below may not 
provide a complete perspective on the nature and frequency of these events.  Serious adverse reactions 
include T-cell type acute leukaemia and autoimmunity (e.g. autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, autoimmune 
aplastic anaemia, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune thrombocytopenia and Guillain-Barré syndrome). The 
most commonly reported adverse reaction was pyrexia.   
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed below by MedDRA body system organ class and by frequency. The frequency 
categories used are: very common (>1/10), and common (≥1/100 to <1/10). Within each frequency grouping, 
adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Very common 
Anaemiaa, neutropeniaa 
Common 
Autoimmune haemolytic 
anaemia, autoimmune 
aplastic anaemia, 
autoimmune 
thrombocytopenia 
Endocrine disorders 
Hypothyroidism 
Autoimmune thyroiditis 
Neoplasms, benign, malignant 
and unspecified 
Nervous system disorders 
T-cell type acute 
leukaemia 
Guillain-Barré syndrome 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertensiona 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Asthma, rhinitis allergic 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Autoimmune hepatitis 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Dermatitis atopic, 
eczema 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Pyrexia 
Investigations 
Hepatic enzyme 
increaseda, antinuclear 
antibody (ANA) 
positive, smooth muscle 
antibody positive 
Antineutrophil 
cytoplasmic antibody 
positive  
aAdverse reactions considered potentially related to busulfan conditioning 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Lymphoid T cells leukaemia due to insertional oncogenesis 
Out of 33 patients with ADA-SCID treated with Strimvelis, one case of Lymphoid T cell leukaemia has been 
reported in one child (frequency: 3%). This event occurred 4.7 years after treatment with Strimvelis. 
Retroviral insertion site (RIS) analysis identified a single dominant clone located approximately 40 kb 
upstream of the LMO2 gene, a known oncogene, with an abundance ≥ 98%.  
Immune reconstitution 
All the identified adverse reactions in the table (apart from those potentially related to busulfan) are 
considered to be related to immune reconstitution, due to their nature and timing.  These autoimmune 
adverse reactions were reported for subjects post-gene therapy. The majority were reported during the 
3-month to 3-year follow-up period and resolved, with the exception of hypothyroidism and positive ANA 
tests. In addition, the allergy related adverse reactions in the table were reported mostly during the 3-month 
to 3-year follow-up period. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No data from clinical studies are available regarding overdose of Strimvelis. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunostimulants, other immunostimulants, ATC code:  L03AX. 
Mechanism of action 
After infusion, CD34+ cells engraft in the bone marrow where they repopulate the haematopoetic system 
with a proportion of cells that express pharmacologically active levels of the ADA enzyme. 
Following successful engraftment in the patient, the effects of the product are expected to be life-long. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The median percentages of genetically modified cells in peripheral blood at one year and 3 years after 
treatment, for the patients enrolled in the pivotal study, were 28% (range 6%-92%) and 30% (range 8%-
101%) of CD19+, and 73% (range 20%-100%) and 67% (range 39%-82%) of CD3+ cells, respectively. The 
median percentages of genetically modified cells in peripheral blood at year 8 for the patients enrolled in the 
long-term follow-up were 97% (range 1%-101%) of CD19+, and 101% (range 1%-101%) of CD3+ cells. 
The presence of the transgene leads to increased expression of ADA. One-year post treatment, median ADA 
activity (mononuclear cells adenosine deaminase) in peripheral blood lymphocytes was 181.2 (range 42.1-
1678.2) nmol/h/mg protein, compared to a baseline median (range) of 80.6 (30.5-92.3) nmol/h/mg protein.  
ADA activity remained increased throughout the duration of the 8 year follow up. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
A total of 18 patients with ADA-SCID were treated with Strimvelis as part of one open-label pivotal trial 
(AD1115611; N=12), two early open-label pilot studies (AD1117054/AD1117056; N=3), and a 
compassionate use program (AD1117064; N=3). Studies evaluated the use of Strimvelis with a range of 
0.9 x 106 – 18.2 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg. All patients received busulfan conditioning prior to gene therapy, with 
most receiving a total dose of 4 mg/kg intravenously over 2 consecutive days prior to CD34+ infusion. Four 
subjects had previously received an unsuccessful stem cell transplant from a haploidentical donor and 15 of 
18 subjects had previously received prior enzyme replacement therapy with polyethylene-glycol-modified 
bovine adenosine deaminase (PEG-ADA). Patients who previously received PEG-ADA had this treatment 
withdrawn 10 to 22 days prior to Strimvelis therapy. The median age across the program was 1.7 years 
(range 0.5 to 6.1) and 61% were males. Eighty three percent were white (56% Caucasian/European heritage 
and 28% Arabic/North African heritage), 11% African American/African, and 6% Asian. 
Patients treated within the pivotal study 
The efficacy of Strimvelis was evaluated in a 3-year open-label, prospective study in children who lacked a 
sibling HLA matched stem cell donor and were either failing to respond adequately to PEG-ADA, were 
intolerant or did not have access to it. 
Results at 3 years for patients treated within the pivotal study are presented in Table 1. Treatment with 
Strimvelis resulted in a 100% survival rate at 3 years post therapy, a decrease in the severe infection rate, an 
increase in T-lymphocytes (CD3+) and all subjects having post-baseline venous red blood cell 
deoxyadenosine nucleotide (RBC dAXP) levels below pathological levels (>100 nmol/mL). 
Table 1. Results at 3 years for the ITT population in the pivotal study* 
Endpoint 
Baseline/ 
Year 3/ 3 Years 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Treatmenta 
Post-Treatmentb 
12 
100% 
Not applicable 
11 
88.0 (19-2718) 
12 
1.01 (0.68-1.46) 
12 
0.38c (0.21-0.65) 
Survival  
n 
% 
Severe infections  
n 
Rate of severe infections per person-year of 
observation (95% confidence interval) 
T-lymphocyte (x106/L)  
n 
median (range) 
% subjects with venous RBC dAXP 
<100 nmol/mL after Strimvelisd 
n 
% 
* Including data from one patient collected post intervention with PEG-ADA (>3 months treatment) or hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation 
a Based on the entire pre-treatment period for severe infections (retrospectively collected), and the data collected at the 
baseline visit for T-lymphocytes. Patient 10 had no baseline value for T-lymphocytes. 
b Based on the 3-year post-treatment period for survival and severe infections, and the data collected at the 3-year visit 
for T-lymphocytes and dAXP. Patient 8 withdrew from the study before 3-year visit, and thus had no data for 
T-lymphocytes and dAXP. 
c Severe infections are those requiring or prolonging hospitalisation. The 3-month hospitalisation period immediately 
post gene therapy was excluded from the calculation 
d dAXP=dAMP+dADP+dATP. dAXP results are based on a responder analysis of the percentage of patients following 
gene therapy who met the definition of adequate metabolic detoxification, therefore baseline value is not applicable. 
e At baseline 9 of 11 (82%) patients had dAXP <100 nmol/mL. All these patients had previously taken PEG-ADA.  
11 
828.0 (309-2458) 
Not applicablee 
11 
100% 
T cell function: In the patients treated in the pivotal study, T cell proliferation was demonstrated in response 
to stimulation with anti-CD3 antibodies (median 62629 cpm, range 4531 to 252173) and phytohemaglutinin 
(median 140642 cpm, range 11119 to 505607) at 1 year post gene therapy, and these responses were 
sustained through Year 3. Findings that TREC (T cell receptor excision circles) in peripheral blood 
lymphocytes were increased above baseline (median 141, range 56 to 1542 copies/100ng DNA) at Years 1 
and maintained to 3 post-treatment and that all subjects had evidence of polyclonal V-beta chains at one or 
more time points following gene therapy provides further supportive evidence of functional T cell 
development. 
B cell function: All 12 subjects treated in the pivotal study were receiving IVIG therapy at the time of 
screening, and 7 subjects (58%) had discontinued IVIG use during 0-3 years follow-up after gene therapy. 
Long-term follow-up 
A 100% survival rate was observed for all 12 subjects treated within the pivotal study and also for the 
18 subjects in the integrated analysis, with a median follow up duration of approximately 12 years. 
Intervention-free survival in this pivotal population (defined as survival without the requirement for 
long-term (≥3 month) re-introduction of PEG-ADA, or stem cell transplant) was 92% (11/12 subjects) (82% 
(14/17 subjects) for integrated population). One subject treated in a pilot study did not have PEG-ADA re-
introduction data, and thus was excluded from the intervention-free survival in the integrated population. 
Long-term PEG-ADA (exceeding 3 months of continuous duration) was used by three subjects; two of these 
subjects subsequently received a sibling-matched stem cell transplant and one subject remained on chronic 
PEG-ADA treatment. Another subject needed transient PEG-ADA administration due to an autoimmune 
event (see section 4.4). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In those patients treated in the pivotal and long-term follow-up (LTFU) study, the rate of severe infections 
declined throughout the follow-up period (Table 2). 
Table 2 Cumulative rate of severe infections per person year of exposure (combined pivotal and LTFU 
ITT population)* 
Pre 
treatment 
n/a 
Post treatment 
17 
11 
18 
40 
Up to  
6 years 
15 
Up to 
7 years 
15 
Up to  
4 years 
16 
Up to  
3 years 
17 
Up to  
2 years 
17 
Up to  
5 years 
15 
3 mths 
- 1 year 
17 
Time 
period  
No. of 
subjects 
No. of 
severe 
infections 
Rate of 
severe 
infections 
per person 
year 
* Excluding data from one patient from the Pilot 1 study who was not followed up until year 13 after gene therapy.               
n/a: not applicable. 
Up to  
8 years 
15 
1.08 
0.19 
0.22 
0.56 
0.35 
0.73 
0.30 
0.24 
0.17 
20 
21 
21 
18 
20 
21 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Strimvelis is an autologous cellular therapy. The nature of Strimvelis is such that conventional studies on 
pharmacokinetics, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination are not applicable. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Reproductive and developmental studies have not been conducted. 
A 4-month biodistribution study was performed in mice. CD34+ cells derived from healthy human umbilical 
cord blood, transduced with the vector used for the production of Strimvelis, were administered 
intravenously to busulfan-conditioned mice. The majority of mice showed reconstitution of the 
haematopoietic system by the end of the study. Low levels of human cells and vector sequences were also 
detected in non-haematopoietic organs consistent with the presence of blood containing transduced human 
cells. There were no adverse reactions on survival, haematological parameters or histopathology of major 
organs, apart from body weight loss and atrophy in the testes and ovaries consistent with administration of 
busulfan. 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted as no adequate animal model was available to evaluate the 
tumourigenic potential of Strimvelis due to the inability to achieve long-term engraftment of transduced cells 
in mice. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
6 hours 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store at 15-30 °C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
50 mL ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) infusion bag, with a luer spike interconnector closed with a luer lock 
cap, packed in a re-usable outer container. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Precautions to be taken when handling or administering the medicinal product  
Healthcare professionals handling Strimvelis should take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves, protective 
clothing and eye protection) to avoid potential transmission of infectious diseases. 
Strimvelis is transported directly to the medical facility where the infusion will be administered. The infusion 
bag(s) is/are placed inside a closed outer container. The bags must be kept in the outer container until ready 
to use. 
Strimvelis is intended solely for autologous use. The identity of the patient must be matched with the 
essential unique patient information on the primary and/or outer container prior to infusion. 
Gently agitate the infusion bag to re-disperse any cellular aggregates, administer using a transfusion 
administration set with filter to remove any remaining cellular aggregates. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product  
Local guidelines on handling human-derived material should be followed for unused medicinal product or 
waste material. All material that has been in contact with Strimvelis (solid and liquid waste) should be 
handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local guidelines on handling 
human-derived material. 
Accidental exposure 
Accidental exposure to Strimvelis must be avoided. Local guidelines on handling of human derived materials 
should be followed in case of accidental exposure, which may include washing of the contaminated skin and 
removal of contaminated clothes. Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with 
Strimvelis must be decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fondazione Telethon ETS 
Via Varese 16/B 
00185 Rome 
Italy 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1097/001 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 26 May 2016 
Date of latest renewal: 30 April 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
MM/YYYY 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER 
RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance  
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
58 Via Olgettina 
20132 
Milan 
Italy 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
58 Via Olgettina 
20132 
Milan 
Italy 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Strimvelis in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must agree 
about the content and format of the educational materials for parents/carers and health professionals, 
restricted prescription details and controlled access/product consent form, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strimvelis will be administered at a specialist transplant centre, and by physicians with previous experience 
in the treatment and management of patients with ADA-SCID and the use of autologous CD34+ ex vivo gene 
therapy products. A completed product consent form is required prior to initiating treatment. 
The educational materials should address the following safety concerns/key elements: Autoimmunity, 
Unsuccessful response to gene therapy, and Malignancy due to insertional oncogenesis (e.g. leukaemia, 
myelodysplasia). 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measure: 
Description 
Non-interventional PASS: In order to investigate the long term safety 
and efficacy of Strimvelis gene therapy, the MAH should conduct and 
submit the results of a long term prospective, non-interventional 
follow up study using data from a registry of patients with adenosine 
deaminase severe combined immunodeficiency (ADA-SCID) treated 
with Strimvelis. The MAH will follow up on the risk of 
immunogenicity, insertional mutagenesis and oncogenesis as well as 
hepatic toxicity. The MAH will review the occurrence of angioedema, 
anaphylactic reactions, systemic allergic events and severe cutaneous 
adverse reactions during the FU period, particularly in those patients 
who had unsuccessful response and received ERT or SCT. The MAH 
will also evaluate intervention-free survival. 
Due date 
The MAH shall plan to include 
regular progress reports of the 
registry in the PSUR and 
provide interim study reports 
every 2 years until the registry 
finishes. Interim registry 
reports shall be submitted 
every 2 years. 
The final clinical study report 
should be submitted after the 
50th patient has 15 year follow-
up visit; Q4 2037. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CONTAINER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Strimvelis 1-10 x 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion. 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
An autologous CD34+ enriched cell fraction that contains CD34+ cells transduced with retroviral vector that 
encodes for the human ADA cDNA sequence with a concentration of 1-10 x 106 CD34+ cells/mL. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains sodium chloride. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for infusion. 
No. of infusion bags: 
Total cell number: 
CD34+ cells/kg:  
x 106 
x 106 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For autologous use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
Exp.: {DD MMM YY} {hh:mm} 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store at 15-30 °C 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains genetically-modified human cells.  
Local guidelines on handling human-derived material should be followed for unused medicinal product or 
waste material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fondazione Telethon ETS 
Via Varese 16/B 
00185 Rome 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1097/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Lot:   
Patient ID: 
DIN:  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable.  
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
INFUSION BAG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Strimvelis 1-10 x 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion. 
For intravenous use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
Exp.: {DD MMM YY} {hh:mm} 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Lot:   
Bag No.: 
Patient ID: 
DIN:  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
Total cell number: 
CD34+ cells/kg:  
x 106 
x 106 
6. 
OTHER 
For autologous use only. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient or carer 
Strimvelis 1–10 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
Autologous CD34+ enriched cell fraction that contains CD34+ cells transduced with retroviral vector that 
encodes for the human ADA cDNA sequence 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects your child may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before your child is given this medicine because it contains important 
information for your child. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your child’s doctor or nurse. 
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your child’s doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
Your child’s doctor will give you a Patient Alert Card which contains important safety information 
about your child’s treatment with Strimvelis. Read it carefully and follow the instructions on it. 
Carry the Patient Alert Card with you at all times and always show it to the doctor or nurse when your 
child sees them or if your child goes to hospital. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Strimvelis is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before your child is given Strimvelis 
3.  How Strimvelis is given 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Strimvelis 
6.  Contents of the pack and further information 
1.  What Strimvelis is and what it is used for 
Strimvelis is a type of medicine called a gene therapy. It is made specially for each patient. 
Strimvelis is used in children to treat a serious condition called ADA-SCID (adenosine deaminase-severe 
combined immune deficiency). It is used when your child cannot receive a bone marrow transplant from a 
family donor because the match is not close enough. 
ADA-SCID occurs because of a faulty gene in the blood cells of your child’s immune system. As a result, 
the cells do not produce enough of an enzyme called adenosine deaminase (ADA) and your child’s immune 
system does not work properly to defend the body against infections.  
To make Strimvelis, stem cells from your child’s bone marrow are modified in the laboratory to insert a gene 
that produces ADA. When these modified stem cells are given back to your child, they can divide to produce 
different types of blood cells, including cells involved in your child’s immune system.  
2.  What you need to know before you (or your child) are given Strimvelis 
Strimvelis is not suitable for some people 
Strimvelis must not be given if your child: 
- 
is allergic to any of the ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
has or has had a type of cancer called leukaemia or myelodysplasia 
has tested positive for HIV or some other infections (your doctor will advise you about this) 
has already been treated with gene therapy 
Warnings and precautions  
Information about cell-based medicinal products, like Strimvelis, must be kept for 30 years at the hospital. 
The information kept about your child will be your child’s name and the batch number of Strimvelis your 
child received. 
Strimvelis is made specially from the patient’s own cells. It must never be given to anyone else. 
Inserting a new gene into the DNA could cause blood cancer. There has been a case of blood cancer, called 
leukaemia in one patient several years after treatment with Strimvelis. It is therefore important to monitor 
your child for the symptoms of leukaemia.  
These include fever, shortness of breath, paleness, night sweats, tiredness, swollen lymph glands, frequent 
infections, a tendency to bleed and/or bruise easily, or tiny red or purple spots under the skin. If your child 
develops any of these symptoms you should contact your doctor immediately.  
Before treatment with Strimvelis, your child will be given other medicines (see sections 3 and 4 for more 
information on these medicines, including possible side effects). 
If your child has previously tested positive for hepatitis C, your child can still be treated under certain 
conditions. Your doctor will discuss this with you if needed. 
Central venous catheters are thin, flexible tubes, that are inserted by a doctor into a large vein to access the 
bloodstream of your child. The risks of these lines are infections and the formation of blood clots. The doctor 
and nurses will monitor your child for any central venous catheter complications. 
Treatment with Strimvelis has been unsuccessful in some patients. These patients received alternative 
treatment options.  
There is a small risk of infection as a result of the treatment. Your child’s doctors and nurses will monitor 
them throughout the infusion for signs of infection and provide treatment if needed. 
Some patients can develop autoimmunity i.e. trigger an immune response against their own cells or tissues 
(see section 4). Your child’s doctor will discuss this with you if needed. 
After the treatment, your child must not donate blood, organs, tissues or cells at any time in future. This is 
because Strimvelis is a gene therapy product.  
When Strimvelis treatment cannot be completed 
In some cases, it might not be possible to go ahead with the planned treatment with Strimvelis for reasons 
such as: 
• 
•  not enough of the right type of cells in the tissue taken from your child’s body to make the medicine 
• 
• 
the medicine not meeting all the quality tests  
a delay in the medicine reaching the clinic where your child is being treated. 
a problem taking the cells from your child’s bone marrow to make the medicine 
Before receiving Strimvelis your child will be given chemotherapy in order to remove their existing bone 
marrow. If Strimvelis cannot be administered after chemotherapy or if the modified stem cells do not take 
hold (engraft) in your child’s body, the doctor will give your child replacement stem cells, using the backup 
sample that was collected and stored before treatment started (see also section 3, How Strimvelis is given). 
You may need other treatment 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Strimvelis goes through a range of tests before it is used.  Because it is given soon after it is made, the final 
results of some of these tests will not be ready before the medicine is given. If the tests show anything that 
might affect your child, the doctor will treat your child as appropriate. 
Other medicines and Strimvelis  
Tell your doctor if your child is taking, has recently taken or might take any other medicines.  
Your child must not be given vaccines called live vaccines for 6 weeks before they are given the 
conditioning medicine to prepare for Strimvelis treatment, nor after treatment while your child’s immune 
system is recovering. 
Strimvelis contains sodium 
This medicine contains 42 to 137 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each dose. This is 
equivalent to 2 to 7% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. 
How Strimvelis is given 
Strimvelis is given by a drip (infusion) into a vein (intravenously). It must be given in a specialised hospital, 
and by a doctor who is experienced in treating patients with ADA-SCID and in using this type of medicine. 
Before Strimvelis is made, the doctor will do tests to make sure that your child is not carrying certain 
infections (see section 2). 
Two samples are collected 
The doctor will collect two samples of bone marrow cells before the planned treatment: 
• 
• 
the backup sample, collected at least 3 weeks before Strimvelis treatment.  It will be stored, to be 
given as replacement cells if Strimvelis cannot be given or does not work (see ‘When Strimvelis 
treatment cannot be completed’ in section 2) 
the treatment sample, collected 4 to 5 days before Strimvelis treatment. It will be used to make 
Strimvelis, by inserting a new gene into the cells. 
Before and during Strimvelis treatment 
When 
What is done 
Why 
At least 3 weeks before 
treatment 
Backup sample of stem cells 
collected 
to be stored as a backup (see 
above) 
About 4 to 5 days before 
treatment 
Treatment sample of stem cells 
collected 
to make Strimvelis (see above) 
3 days and 2 days before 
treatment 
A medicine called busulfan is 
given 4 times a day for 2 days 
(total of 8 doses) 
to prepare the bone marrow for 
Strimvelis treatment and clear 
existing stem cells 
About 15 to 30 minutes 
before treatment 
An antihistamine medicine may be 
given 
to make it less likely that you will 
react to the infusion 
Strimvelis is given… 
by a drip into a vein. 
This will take about 20 minutes 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The side-effects linked to Strimvelis are caused by the immune system becoming over-active and attacking 
the body’s own tissues. Some side effects may also be related to the busulfan medicine used to prepare your 
child’s bone marrow for treatment; these are marked with an asterisk (*) in the list below. 
inflamed itchy skin (atopic dermatitis, eczema) 
raised temperature (pyrexia) 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
runny or blocked nose (allergic rhinitis) 
•  wheezing, difficulty breathing (asthma) 
• 
• 
•  underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) 
•  high blood pressure (hypertension)* 
•  decreases in the number of red or white blood cells (anaemia, neutropenia)* 
• 
•     blood test results positive for antinuclear antibody and smooth muscle antibody (which might 
increases in liver enzymes (which indicate stress on the liver)* 
suggest possible autoimmunity) 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people.  
red or purple dots on the skin, bleeding under the skin (autoimmune thrombocytopenia) 
inflamed thyroid gland (autoimmune thyroiditis) 
• 
• 
•  weakness and pain in the feet and hands caused by damage to nerves (Guillain-Barré syndrome) 
• 
inflamed liver (autoimmune hepatitis) 
• 
reduced numbers of blood cells (autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, autoimmune aplastic anaemia) 
•  blood test results positive for antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (which could lead to autoimmune 
inflammation and swelling of the blood vessels and possibly increased level of infections) 
a type of blood cancer called leukaemia 
• 
If you have any questions about symptoms or side effects, or if any symptoms concern you, talk to your 
child’s doctor or nurse. 
Reporting of side effects 
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Strimvelis 
The following information is intended for doctors only. 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date and time (EXP) which is stated on the container label and 
infusion bag label. 
Store at 15–30 °C. 
This medicine contains genetically-modified human cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be 
disposed of in compliance with the local guidelines on handling human-derived material. As this medicine 
will be given by a qualified doctor, they are responsible for correct disposal of the product. These measures 
will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Strimvelis contains  
- 
The active substance is an autologous (the patient’s own) CD34+ enriched cell fraction that contains 
CD34+ cells transduced with retroviral vector that encodes for the human ADA cDNA sequence. The 
concentration is 1–10 × 106 CD34+ cells/mL. 
The other ingredient is sodium chloride (see section 2, “Strimvelis contains sodium”). 
- 
What Strimvelis looks like and contents of the pack 
Strimvelis is a cloudy to clear, colourless to pink dispersion of cells for infusion, which is supplied in one or 
more infusion bags. The infusion bags are provided in a closed container. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Fondazione Telethon ETS 
Via Varese 16/B 
00185 Rome 
Italy  
Manufacturer 
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
58 Via Olgettina 
20132 
Milan 
ITALY 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments.  
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Precautions to be taken when handling or administering the medicinal product  
Healthcare professionals handling Strimvelis should take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves, protective 
clothing and eye protection) to avoid potential transmission of infectious diseases. 
Strimvelis is transported directly to the medical facility where the infusion will be administered. The infusion 
bag(s) is/are placed inside a closed outer container. The bags must be kept in the outer container until ready 
to use. 
Strimvelis is intended solely for autologous use. The identity of the patient must be matched with the 
essential unique patient information on the primary and/or outer container prior to infusion. 
Gently agitate the infusion bag to re-disperse any cellular aggregates, administer using a transfusion 
administration set with filter to remove any remaining cellular aggregates. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product  
Local guidelines on handling human-derived material should be followed for unused medicinal product or 
waste material. All material that has been in contact with Strimvelis (solid and liquid waste) should be 
handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local guidelines on handling 
human-derived material. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accidental exposure 
Accidental exposure to Strimvelis must be avoided. Local guidelines on handling of human derived materials 
should be followed in case of accidental exposure, which may include washing of the contaminated skin and 
removal of contaminated clothes. Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with 
Strimvelis must be decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
27 
 
 
 
