EMA/643935/2017  
EMEA/H/C/002574 
EPAR summary for the public 
Stribild 
elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Stribild. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Stribild. 
For practical information about using Stribild, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Stribild and what is it used for? 
Stribild is a medicine that contains the active substances elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and 
tenofovir disoproxil. It is used to treat patients from 12 years of age and weighing at least 35 kg who 
are infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (AIDS). It is used only in patients who have not received HIV medicines before or 
whose disease is not expected to be resistant to any of the antiviral agents in Stribild; it should only be 
used in patients under 18 years if other HIV medicines not including tenofovir disoproxil cannot be 
used because of side effects.  
How is Stribild used? 
Stribild can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should only be started by a doctor who 
is experienced in managing HIV infection. Stribild is available as tablets (150 mg elvitegravir/150 mg 
cobicistat /200 mg emtricitabine/245 mg tenofovir disoproxil). The recommended dose is one tablet a 
day, taken with food. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Stribild work? 
Stribild contains four active substances. Elvitegravir is a type of antiviral agent called an ‘integrase 
inhibitor’. It blocks an HIV-1 enzyme called integrase, which is involved in thevirus’s replication, 
thereby reducing the virus’s ability to replicate normally and slowing down its spread. Cobicistat 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
enhances the effects of elvitegravir, by prolonging the time for which elvitegravir continues to work. 
Tenofovir disoproxil is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning that it is converted into the active substance 
tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir and emtricitabine are closely related types of antiviral agent called 
reverse transcriptase inhibitors. They block the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced 
by HIV-1 that allows the virus to replicate  itself in the body. By blocking reverse transcriptase as well 
as integrase, Stribild reduces the amount of HIV-1 in the blood and keeps it at a low level.  
Stribild does not cure HIV-1 infection or AIDS, but it may hold off damage to the immune system and 
the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Stribild have been shown in studies? 
Stribild was investigated in two main studies involving 1,422 adult patients with HIV-1 who had not 
been treated before, where Stribild was compared with other HIV medicines. The main measure of 
effectiveness was based on the reduction in viral load (the amount of HIV-1 virus in the blood). 
Patients whose viral load was reduced to less than 50 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml after 48 weeks of 
treatment were considered to have responded to treatment.  
In the first study, involving 715 patients, Stribild was compared with the combination of ritonavir, 
atazanavir plus a medicine containing emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil (which are also contained 
in Stribild). After 48 weeks, around 90% of patients treated with Stribild (316 out of 353) responded to 
treatment compared with around 87% of patients treated with the comparator treatment (308 out of 
355).  
In the second study, involving 707 patients, Stribild was compared with a medicine containing efavirenz, 
emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil. After 48 weeks, around 88% of patients treated with Stribild 
(305 out of 348) responded to treatment compared with around 84% of patients treated with the 
comparator medicine (296 out of 352).  
A third study involving 50 adolescents aged 12 to 18 years who had not been previously treated for 
HIV-1 showed that Stribild was also effective in reducing viral load in this age group; 88% (44 of 50 
patients) responded to treatment after 24 weeks, and the response persisted after 48 weeks. 
What are the risks associated with Stribild? 
The most common side effects with Stribild are nausea (feeling sick) and diarrhoea, which can affect 
more than 1 in 10 people. In patients taking some of the components of Stribild, certain rare but 
serious side effects have been seen including lactic acidosis (excess lactic acid in the blood) and severe 
kidney problems that may also affect bones. For the full list of all side effects reported with Stribild, 
see the package leaflet. 
Stribild must not be used in patients who have previously stopped treatment with tenofovir disoproxil 
due to kidney toxicity. Stribild must not be used with several other medicines as it may interact with 
them, thereby reducing the effectiveness of treatment or increasing the risk of side effects. For the full 
list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Stribild approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Stribild’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. In particular, the Agency concluded that the 
benefits of Stribild in reducing HIV viral load had been clearly shown in studies, and noted that it has 
Stribild  
EMA/643935/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
the advantage of being taken once per day. The Agency also noted the risk of side effects affecting the 
kidneys, and recommended that kidney function should be carefully assessed before patients start 
taking Stribild and should be monitored during treatment.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Stribild? 
The company that markets Stribild will ensure that all doctors who are expected to prescribe Stribild 
are provided with educational materials containing important safety information. This will cover 
information on the risk of kidney disease in adults and adolescents and the measures to reduce this 
risk, including appropriate screening and monitoring of patients.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Stribild have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Stribild 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Stribild on 24/05/2013 
The full EPAR for Stribild can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Stribild, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10/2017. 
Stribild  
EMA/643935/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
