SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Drug  addiction  is  a  worldwide  problem  of  which  opioid  dependence,  notably  heroin  addiction,  is  a 
major component. Most addicts inject drugs, quite often with dirty or shared syringes and needles and 
this  behaviour  is  linked directly with the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and 
the  hepatitis  viruses.  A  key  aim  of  treatment  programs  for  opioid  drug  dependence  is  to  stop  the 
subjects from injecting drugs. Substitution is the treatment approach for opioid dependence in which 
street  heroin  of  unknown  strength  and  purity  is  replaced  with  a  pharmaceutical  grade  opioid  with  a 
longer duration of action, such as buprenorphine. 
Buprenorphine is a well-known substance available in several European countries for the treatment of 
severe  pain.  For  the  treatment  of  opioid  dependence  it  was  first  approved  in  1995  (France)  and  is 
currently  available  in  most  European  countries.  Buprenorphine  has  lower  intrinsic  activity  than 
methadone and other full agonists, produces less sedation and cognitive impairment, and has a ceiling 
on  potential  depressant  effects,  even  if  injected,  particularly  on  cardiac  and  respiratory  functions. 
Sublingual buprenorphine (marketed as Buprenorphine alone) is an established substitution treatment 
for  opiate  abuse,  but  there  has  been  some  diversion  to  the  intravenous  route  because  buprenorphine 
produces a moderate opiate agonist effect. Thus, in the opinion of the applicant, there is a need for a 
formulation of buprenorphine that has low potential for intravenous misuse.  
SUBOXONE  is  a  fixed  combination  product  for  chronic  substitution  therapy  in  opiate  dependence 
consisting  of  buprenorphine  and  naloxone  formulated 
tablet  containing 
buprenorphine and naloxone in the ratio 4:1 of the bases. 
The  claimed  indication  for  SUBOXONE  is  substitution  treatment  for  opioid  drug  dependence, 
within  a  framework  of  medical,  social  and  psychological  treatment.  The  intention  of  the 
naloxone  component  is  to  deter  intravenous  misuse.  As  requested  by  the  CHMP,  treatment  is 
intended for use in adults and adolescents over 15 years of age who have agreed to be treated for 
addiction. 
into  a  sublingual 
The product is intended as a “take home” medication presented in two strengths: 
1.  Buprenorphine 8 mg + naloxone 2 mg sublingual tablet 
2.  Buprenorphine 2 mg + naloxone 0.5 mg sublingual tablet. 
The combination of an opioid antagonist with a potent µ-opioid analgesic is an established strategy for 
reducing  the  potential  for  intravenous  misuse.  Naloxone  is  a  well-known  opioid  antagonist.  As  a 
mono-substance  it  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  opioid-overdosage  or  –intoxication.  When 
administered in usual doses to patients who have not recently received opioids, naloxone exerts little 
or  no  pharmacologic  effect.  In  patients  who  have  received  large  doses  of  opioids,  naloxone 
antagonises most of the effects of the opioid. The addition of naloxone to buprenorphine is intended to 
render the product less abusable by deterring intravenous injection. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Suboxone  is  presented  as  sublingual  tablets  containing  a  fixed  dose  combination  of  buprenorphine 
hydrochloride and naloxone hydrochloride dihydrate, at a ratio of 4:1, with respect to the free bases. 
Suboxone is available in two strengths:  
•  2  mg  /  0.5  mg  tablets  containing  2.16  mg  buprenorphine  hydrochloride  (equivalent  to  2  mg 
buprenorphine  base)  and  0.61  mg  naloxone  hydrochloride  dihydrate  (equivalent  to  0.5 mg 
naloxone base).   
©EMEA 2006 
1/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  8  mg  /  2  mg  containing  8.64  mg  buprenorphine  hydrochloride  (equivalent  to  8  mg 
buprenorphine  base)  and  2.44  mg  naloxone  hydrochloride  dihydrate  (equivalent  to  2 mg 
naloxone base).  
The  excipients  used  in  this  formulation  are  lactose  monohydrate,  mannitol,  maize  starch,  povidone 
K30,  citric  acid  anhydrous  granular,  sodium  citrate,  natural  lemon  and  lime  flavour,  acesulfame 
potassium and magnesium stearate. Suboxone is administered via the sublingual route and is packed in 
nylon/aluminium/PVC blister packs containing either 7 or 28 tablets.  
Active Substance 1. (Buprenorphine hydrochloride)  
Buprenorphine hydrochloride is an established active substance and the subject of a monograph in the 
Ph. Eur.  
Buprenorphine hydrochloride is designated chemically as (2S)-2-[17-Cyclopropylmethyl-4,5α-epoxy-
3-hydroxy-6-methoxy-6α,14-ethano-14α-morphinan-7α-yl]-3,3-dimethylbutan-2-ol 
hydrochloride 
and its chemical structure is as follows: 
Buprenorphine  hydrochloride  is  a  white  or  almost  white,  crystalline  powder,  sparingly  soluble  in 
water, freely soluble in methanol, soluble in alcohol, practically insoluble in cyclohexane.  
Buprenorphine has several chiral centres and it is therefore optically active.  
The  potential  for  polymorphism  was  investigated  using  powder  X-Ray  diffraction  and  Differential 
Scanning  Calorimetry  (DSC)  techniques.  The  results  showed  that  there  is  no  evidence  for 
polymorphism. 
•  Manufacture 
Buprenorphine  hydrochloride  is  synthesized  from  thebaine.  The  structure  has  been  confirmed  by 
elemental  analysis,  spectroscopic  analysis  (UV,  IR,  NMR  and  MS)  and  X-Ray  crystallography.  The 
stereochemistry  of  the  intermediates  and  the  final  active  substance  was  investigated  using  X-ray 
crystallography and NMR spectroscopy. The absolute configuration was confirmed at different stages 
during the synthesis. 
•  Specification 
The  specification  of  the  active  substance  includes  physical  description,  visual  inspection  of  the 
appearance in solution, assay by titration and by HPLC, specific optical rotation, acidity or alkalinity 
and  related  substances  (HPLC).  Additional  tests  performed  are  as  follows:  control  for  water content 
using the Karl Fisher method and residue on ignition, residual solvent, ionic chloride and particle size.  
The  analytical  methods  used  were  those  described  in  the  PhEur.  Monograph,  one  major  exception 
being  the  determination  of  related  substances.  The  HPLC  method  for  determination  of  related 
impurities  uses  specific  impurity  markers.  It  allows  detection  and  quantitation  of  the  five  major 
impurities specified, whereas using the method described in the Ph. Eur. only two of the impurities can 
be detected. In addition, the acceptance criteria set for each specified impurity is more stringent than 
the  limits  mentioned  in  Ph.  Eur.  monograph.  The  maximum  limit  for  total  related  impurities  is  also 
©EMEA 2006 
2/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
more  stringent  than  that  mentioned  in  the  current  Ph.  Eur.  Monograph.  All  analytical  methods  have 
been validated according to the ICH guideline on “Validation of Analytical methods”.  
Batch  analysis  data  was  provided  for  23  batches  of  buprenorphine  hydrochloride  manufactured 
following  the  proposed  synthetic  method.  The  results  showed  that  the  active  substance  can  be 
reproducibly manufactured. 
•  Stability 
The stability of buprenorphine hydrochloride was investigated in 3-production scale batches stored in 
the proposed packaging according to the ICH guideline. Stability studies were performed under long 
term  and  intermediate  ICH  conditions for 156 weeks, and accelerated ICH conditions for 52 weeks. 
An  additional  study  was  performed  using  a  larger  scale  production  batch.  In  this  study  the  stability 
studies  were  performed  under  long-term  and  intermediate  conditions  for  52  weeks  and  accelerated 
conditions for 39 weeks. The results obtained demonstrate that buprenorphine hydrochloride remains 
physically and chemically stable for 52 week at long-term and intermediate conditions and 26 weeks 
at accelerated conditions. 
The data provided is sufficient to confirm the proposed re-test period.  
Active Substance 2. (Naloxone hydrochloride dihydrate)  
Naloxone hydrochloride dihydrate is an established active substance and the subject of a monograph 
in the Ph. Eur. Naloxone hydrochloride dihydrate is designated chemically as Morphinan-6-one, 4,5-
epoxy-3,  14-dihydroxy-17-(2-propenyl)-,  hydrochloride,  (5α)-dihydrate.  Its  chemical  structure  is  as 
follows: 
2
HO
3
1
11
4
O
5
12
15
10
16
18
19
13
14
N
9
OH
17
6
O
7
8
Naloxone hydrochloride dihydrate is a white or almost white crystalline powder, hygroscopic, soluble 
in water and alcohol, practically insoluble in ether. The pKa of Naloxone hydrochloride dihydrate is 
7.94 at 20oC and the melting point is 200-205oC. 
•  Manufacture 
Naloxone  hydrochloride  is  synthesised  from  noroxymorphone.  The  assigned  structure  of  naloxone 
hydrochloride dihydrate is supported by the evidence of IR spectrophotometry, and by  1H-NMR and 
13C-NMR spectrometry.  
Naloxone hydrochloride dihydrate contains four chiral centres, all of which are already present in the 
starting material of the synthesis, noroxymorphone, which is derived from natural opiates.  
The possibility of polymorphism was investigated by standard techniques. The results showed that all 
batches exhibited the same morphic form.  
•  Specification 
Naloxone hydrochloride dihydrate is tested for compliance with both PhEur. and USP monographs by 
the active substance manufacturer. These tests include physical description, identification by IR, TLC 
and  chloride,  specific  optical  rotation,  loss  on  drying,  Noroxymorphone  hydrochloride  and  other 
impurities by TLC, chloride content, appearance of solution, acidity or alkalinity, related substances 
by  HPLC,  water  content,  sulphated  ash  and  assay  by  titration.  The  specification  also  includes  some 
additional  non-pharmacopoeial  tests  (a  stability-indicating  HPLC  method  for  assay  and  related 
©EMEA 2006 
3/42 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substances, UV identification, sieve analysis and the melting range of naloxone base). The stability-
indicating  HPLC  assay  has  been  fully  validated  and  was  shown  to  have  satisfactory  linearity, 
precision, accuracy and ruggedness. The peak area of naloxone decreases and degradation products are 
observed in samples exposed to stress conditions, confirming that the assay is stability-indicating. 
Five batches of naloxone hydrochloride were manufactured using the proposed synthetic method. The 
results indicate that every batch complied with the limits for related substances.  
•  Stability 
The  stability  of  naloxone  hydrochloride  was  investigated  in  12  batches  stored  in  the  proposed 
packaging  according  to  the  ICH  guideline.  Stability  studies  were  performed  under  long  term, 
intermediate and accelerated ICH conditions for up to 60 months.  No marked evidence of instability 
was  revealed  under  any  of  the  storage  conditions  and  the  proposed  re-test  period  appears  to  be 
justified on the basis of the stability data presented. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Suboxone  was  developed  in  order  to  deliver  a  similar  dose  of  buprenorphine  compared  to 
buprenorphine alone tablets (medicinal product containing buprenorphine that is authorised in the EU 
for the treatment of opioid addiction), but reducing the potential for intravenous abuse. Naloxone, an 
opiate  antagonist,  has  poor  bioavailability  when  administered  by  the  sublingual  route  and 
consequently  when  Suboxone  is  taken  sublingually  it  shows  only  the  required  effects  of 
buprenorphine  and  delivers  the  same  performance  as  an  equivalent  dose  of  buprenorphine  alone 
tablets.  However,  if  abused  intravenously  by  an  opiate-dependent  subject,  the  antagonist  effects  of 
naloxone  become  apparent  first  as  intense  withdrawal  symptoms  followed  by  the  attenuated  agonist 
effects of buprenorphine. 
Therefore  the  Suboxone  formulation  is  closely  based  on  the  formulation  of  buprenorphine  alone 
sublingual tablets but with naloxone added to reduce the potential for abuse by the intravenous route. 
A  buprenorphine  to  naloxone  ratio  of  4:1  contains  sufficient  naloxone  to  produce  opiate  antagonist 
effects following intra-venous administration, but does not impair the effectiveness of buprenorphine 
when the mixture is taken by the sublingual route.  
The  excipients  used  in  Suboxone  are  qualitatively  and  quantitatively  identical  to  those  used  in  the 
existing  buprenorphine  alone  sublingual  tablets,  i.e.,  lactose  monohydrate,  mannitol,  maize  starch, 
povidone K30, citric acid anhydrous, sodium citrate and magnesium stearate. Acesulfame potassium 
and natural lemon and lime flavour (sweetener and flavouring agents, respectively) were included to 
disguise the bitter taste of naloxone. The content of lactose monohydrate was reduced slightly in order 
to  maintain  identical  compression  weights.  All  excipients  have  been  widely  used  in  commercial 
pharmaceutical dosage forms or as food additives. Except for the natural lemon and lime flavour all 
excipients comply with the specification of the Ph. Eur. Natural lemon and lime flavour is a natural 
flavouring, which complies the requirements of directive 88/388/EEC (as amended) on flavourings for 
use in food. Certificates of analysis have been provided for all excipients. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Lactose monohydrate is the only excipient of animal origin. However, it is prepared from bovine milk 
suitable  for  human  consumption,  which  is  sourced  from  healthy  animals.  Magnesium  stearate  is  of 
vegetable origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product  comprises  standard  mixing,  wet  granulation  and 
compression techniques. Process parameter ranges (sieve sizes, mixing times and speed, drying time 
and  temperature)  were  described  for  each  step  of  the  manufacturing  process.  Validation  studies 
involved the preparation of 3 full-scale batches of the tablet blend. Each of the batches was then sub-
divided into two sub-lots for the preparation of tablets of both strengths, i.e., 2 mg/0.5 mg tablets and 
8 mg/2 mg tablets. An additional full-scale batch of each tablet strength was manufactured. All eight 
batches complied with final product specification. From the evidence of the process validation studies 
©EMEA 2006 
4/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  process  is  capable  of  consistently  producing  batches  of  the 
required quality. 
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  methods  for  appearance,  identification  (buprenorphine  and 
naloxone) by HPLC and TLC, assay and content uniformity (buprenorphine and naloxone) by HPLC, 
dissolution  of  buprenorphine  and  dissolution  of  naloxone,  disintegration  time,  buprenorphine 
degradation products, naloxone degradation products, water content and microbiological integrity.  
The drug product specifications have been justified and all methods of analysis have been described 
and adequately validated.  
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability data on three batches of each strength of Suboxone sublingual tablets (8 mg / 2 mg and 2 mg 
/  0.5 mg)  packaged  under  a  nitrogen  atmosphere  was  provided.  The  studies  were  performed  under 
long-term,  intermediate,  and  accelerated  conditions.  The  parameters  evaluated  during  these  studies 
were  those  mentioned  in  the  shelf-life  specification,  except  for  two  minor  deviations.  Analytical 
results  up  to  156  weeks  were  presented.    All  tests  remained  within  specification  for  156  weeks  at 
25°C/60%  RH.  The  key  shelf-life  limiting  parameter  appeared  to  be  disintegration  time.  There  is 
evidence  of  a  time-dependent  increase  but  all  samples  stored  at  complied  with  the  specification  for 
156 weeks. 
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions,  as  stated  in  the 
SPC, are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substances  and  drug  product  has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of test carried out indicate satisfactory consistency 
and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
• 
Most  of  the  preclinical  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  good  laboratory  practice 
regulations. Some studies have been performed prior to the introduction of GLP regulation and are not 
GLP-compliant. Since both of the active ingredients are established substances the documentation for 
pharmacology  consists  of  published  literature  plus  study  reports  with  the  combination  of  the  active 
ingredients. 
•  Pharmacology 
Buprenorphine is a semisynthetic, highly lipophilic opioid derived from thebaine with a 25 -30 fold 
higher analgesic potency as compared to morphine and a longer lasting effect. It is a partial agonist at 
the  µ-  and  an  antagonist  at  the  κ-opioid  receptor  subtype.  It  dissociates  very  slowly  from  opioid 
receptors  (t½  166  min  vs.  7  min  for  fentanyl)  and  is,  once  bound,  hardly  displaced  by  naloxone, 
however, prior treatment with naloxone can prevent e.g. respiratory depression. It is able to substitute 
for other opioids such as heroin but provides only moderate opiate agonist effects and a low degree of 
physical  dependence.  Being  a  partial  µ-receptor  agonist  it  may  cause  symptoms  of  abstinence  in 
patients treated with µ-receptor agonists (e.g. morphine) and restricts its own analgesic effects once a 
maximum  is  reached,  resulting  in  a  bell-shaped  dose  response  curve.  When  treatment  with 
buprenorphine is discontinued withdrawal signs are generally mild due to slow dissociation from the 
µ-receptor and concomitant adaptive processes.  
Naloxone  is  the  N-allyl  derivative  of  oxymorphone.  It  has  antagonistic  effects  at  µ,  δ-  and  κ-opioid 
receptors  and  is  currently  marketed  in  injectable  form  for  the  complete  or  partial  reversal  of  opiate 
effects  or  for  the  suspected  acute  opiate  overdose.  When  given  alone,  hardly  any  effect  is  observed 
©EMEA 2006 
5/42 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hinting at a low endogenous opioidergic tonus. Because of its almost complete first pass metabolism, 
naloxone  administered  orally  or  sublingually  is  not  expected  to  exert  antagonistic  activity.  No 
documents dealing with the pharmacodynamics of naloxone were submitted. 
Receptor Binding: 
In  the  review  presented  in  association  with  this  application  the  receptor  binding  affinities  of 
buprenorphine and naloxone for narcotic receptors are outline in the following table.  
Table:  In vitro receptor-binding affinities for Buprenorphine and Naloxone. 
Drug 
Buprenorphine 
Naloxone 
Mu (µ) 
0.77 
1.2 
Delta (δ) 
2.2 
19 
Ki (nM) 
Kappa (κ) 
1.1 
12 
Sigma (σ) 
>100000 
>1000000 
Ratio (σ/κ) 
>91000 
>83000 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vivo studies have been carried out in order to examine the interaction of both substances as regards 
effects (antinociception), precipitation of withdrawal in morphine dependent rats, drug discrimination 
in rats and avoidance behaviour in monkeys.  
Antinociceptive effects of buprenorphine and morphine given alone or in combination with naloxone 
(subcutaneous  route)  were  measured  in  the  rat  tail  pressure  test:  the  results  provided  some  evidence 
that buprenorphine is antagonised by naloxone, although less readily than morphine. 
Buprenorphine  and  naloxone  administered  intraperitoneally  to  precipitate  withdrawal  signs  in 
morphine-dependent  rats  suggest  that  buprenorphine  did  not  affect  the  ability  of  naloxone  to 
precipitate signs of opiate withdrawal. 
To test whether buprenorphine plus naloxone mixtures are still perceived like buprenorphine alone, a 
drug discrimination study was performed. Male rats with about 300 g b.w. were trained to discriminate 
between  subcutaneous  (s.c.)  injection  of  buprenorphine  0.03 mg/kg in an operant chamber with two 
levers, where repeated pressure of the correct lever (10x) resulted in the delivery of a food pellet. 30 
min  after  application  the  pattern  of  lever  pressing  was  recorded.  No  food  reward  was  given  during 
generalisation trials. Generalisation was considered to have occurred, if the percent responding on the 
relevant  lever  was  70  %  or  more.  Responding  to  the  buprenorphine-appropriate  lever  was  97  % 
following  buprenorphine,  2  %  following  saline  and  8  %  following  naloxone.  Addition  of  naloxone 
0.002, 0.01 and 0.02 mg/kg to buprenorphine resulted in 93 %, 59 % and 23 % buprenorphine lever 
pressing, respectively. It is concluded that buprenorphine combined with naloxone in a ratio 3:2 is not 
probable to be a narcotic cue to support opiate misuse. 
Negative  reinforcing  properties  of  naloxone  were  studied  in  the  non-dependent  rhesus  monkey: 
scheduled  infusions  of naloxone (1-100 µg/kg/inf.) and of buprenorphine (250 µg/kg/inf.) generated 
drug  avoidance  behavior  in  the  non-dependent  rhesus  monkey  under  a  continuous  avoidance-escape 
paradigm. Pentazocine (1-100 µg/kg/inf.) codeine, (1-100  µg/kg/inf. and tilidine (1-250  µg/kg/inf.) 
were  ineffective.  Addition  of  varying  doses  of  naloxone  to  scheduled  infusions  of  codeine,  tilidine, 
and pentazocine generated avoidance behavior not present with scheduled infusions of these opioids 
alone. The naloxone doses necessary for generation of avoidance behavior were low with the agonists 
codeine  and  tilidine,  higher  with  the  weak  antagonist  pentazocine,  and  highest  with  the  strong 
antagonist buprenorphine.  
Monkeys were trained to avoid conditioned noxious stimuli. Subsequently, avoidance behaviour was 
extinguished and scheduled intravenous infusions of drugs were tested for their ability to re-introduce 
avoidance  behaviour.  Comparable  to  nalorphine,  the  opioid  antagonist  naloxone  exerted  negative 
reinforcing properties. The agonists codeine and tilidine had no effects on the behaviour of their own, 
as had the mixed agonist/antagonist pentazocine, while buprenorphine had a weak negative reinforcing 
effect  only  in  the  highest  dose  tested.  Naloxone  was  added  to  equi-analgesic  doses  of  the  test 
compounds. Low doses were needed to induce negative reinforcement in the presence of codeine and 
tilidine,  somewhat  higher  doses  in  the  presence  of  pentazocine  and  high  doses  in  the  presence  of 
buprenorphine.  
©EMEA 2006 
6/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  where  interaction  between  buprenorphine  and  naloxone  was  shown,  the  routes  of 
administration used in the pharmacology studies may have limited relevance to the proposed clinical 
route  of  administration  (sublingual)  and  the  ratios  chosen  in  these  studies  (3:1)  do  not  reflect  the 
proposed clinical ratio of 4:1. Thus ‘proof of principle’ that co-administration of naloxone will prevent 
intravenous  misuse  of  buprenorphine  has  further  to  be  derived  from  clinical  studies  and  clinical 
evidence. 
Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine did not displace peripheral [3H]PK 11195 binding and central 
[3H]flunitrazepam binding, indicating lack of interaction with the GABAA-receptors. 
Diazepam and flunitrazepam have no significant affinity to human µ- and
affinity to human κ-opioid receptors. 
 δ- opioid receptors and poor 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
In  order  to  look  for  blood  compatibility  (protein  precipitating  and  haemolytic  effects)  of  the 
combination of buprenorphine and naloxone 3: 2, the powdered product was dissolved in 5 % aqueous 
glucose  or  was  diluted  from  a  pre-prepared  solution  and  added  to  citrated  blood  withdrawn  from 
beagle  dogs.  The  slight  haemolysis  observed  with  therapeutic  concentration  is  not  likely  to  be  of 
clinical significance in the case that intravenous abuse of the product should occur. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No  new  studies  were  submitted.  Due  to  the  well-known  pharmacology  of  the  single  substances  and 
since no adverse interactions between these to substances are expected this procedure is acceptable. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No unexpected pharmacodynamic drug interactions have been identified. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics of both buprenorphine and naloxone are well known. Buprenorphine is sufficiently 
absorbed following sublingual administration and is eliminated with a long half-life. Naloxone has a 
low oral bioavailability and and is rapidly eliminated when given parenterally.  
In a preclinical study it is shown, that co-administration of buprenorphine and naloxone had little or 
no effect on their individual pharmacokinetic profiles following administration by i.v. or i.m or by oral 
dosing. 
©EMEA 2006 
7/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3H-Naloxone + 
Buprenorphine 
AUC 
(0-8 hr) 
ng/g h 
Cmax 
Plasm
a ng/g 
Cmax 
Brain 
ng/ 
equiv 
Table. Results of single dose pharmacokinetic studies in rats and dogs with 3H-buprenorphine and 3H-naloxone 
alone or in combination with non-radiolabelled naloxone or buprenorphine respectively. 
3H-Buprenorphine 
3H-Naloxone 
S 
P 
E 
C 
I 
E 
S 
Rat 
Dog 
R 
O 
U 
T 
E 
Cmax 
Plasm
a ng/g 
AUC (0-8 
hr) 
ng/g h 
i.v. 
i.m. 
p.o. 
1442 
892 
571 
i.v. 
788 
1799 
2248 
188 
Auc (0-24 
hr) ng/g 
h 
65 
Auc (0-
96 hr) 
ng/g h 
Cmax 
Brain 
ng/ 
equiv 
4763 
1051 
1456 
Cmax 
Plas
ma 
ng/g 
1306 
839 
915 
* 
739 
3H Buprenorphine + 
Naloxone 
AUC (0-8 
hr) 
ng/g h 
Cmax 
Brain 
ng/ 
equivs 
Cmax 
Plasm
a ng/g 
3626 
760 
1564 
761 
865 
313 
* 
349 
1653 
1453 
243 
Auc (0-24 
hr) ng/g 
h 
67 
Auc (0-
96 hr) 
ng/g h 
i.m 
p.o. 
103 
ND 
68.5 
ND 
* 
* 
129 
ND 
64 
ND 
* 
* 
258 
ND 
AUC 
(0-8 hr) 
Ng/g 
h 
726 
908 
48 
Auc (0-
24 hr) 
ng/g h 
18 
Auc 
(0-96 
hr) 
ng/g h 
26 
8 
Cmax 
Brain 
ng/ 
equiv 
2141 
1756 
8518 
574 
833 
134 
* 
357 
* 
* 
258 
ND 
690 
760 
26 
Auc (0-
24 hr) 
ng/g h 
20 
Auc 
(0-96 
hr) 
ng/g h 
25.5 
5.5 
1736 
1850 
5853 
* 
* 
* 
The only clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction detected is confined to inhibitors of CYP3A 
resulting in enhanced bioavailability of buprenorphine. Based on these studies inhibitors of CYP 3A 
enzyme  can  potentially  increase  the  hepatic  toxicity  of  buprenorphine.  Patients  concomitantly 
administered inhibitors of CYP 3A should be closely monitored for markers of liver toxicity. 
This is reflected in the clinical pharmacokinetics and is taken into account in the SPC. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Extensive acute toxicity studies employing different routes of administration (i.v., s.c. i.m. and oral) 
are presented in which the toxicity of buprenorphine and naloxone are compared with the toxicity of 
mixtures of these components.  These studies demonstrate that there is no synergistic enhancement of 
toxicity when buprenorphine and naloxone are co-administered.   
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Dietary toxicity studies of 28 days and 13 weeks duration in rats were conducted using buprenorphine: 
naloxone at a ratio of 4:1 in terms of the bases (i.e. the ratio intended for human use).  
The dietary route was selected for repeated dose toxicity evaluation of Suboxone since this route was 
relevant  to  the  proposed  sublingual  route  of  human  exposure.    In  addition  to  data  on  the  dietary 
toxicity  of  Suboxone  in  rats,  data  on  the  toxicity  of  development  formulations  containing  ratios  of 
buprenorphine and naloxone of 1:1 and 3:2 for periods of up to 28 days in both the rat and the dog by 
a variety of enteral and parenteral routes of administration are presented. 
Clinical  observations  were  aggressive  behaviour  and  excessive  grooming.  An  analgesic  effect 
(prolonged time to tail flick) has been observed in females of the 2000 ppm group. Bodyweight was 
significant  lower  throughout  the  study  for  males  only.  Food  consumption  and  food  utilisation  was 
decreased in males also. A treatment-related increase in adrenal weight adjusted for body weight was 
recorded  for  males  receiving  Suboxone.    The  adrenals  were  histologically  normal  and  this  apparent 
weight change was not considered to be of toxicological importance.  No other organ weight changes 
were apparent that were considered to be related to treatment and no treatment-related abnormalities 
were observed at autopsy.  Histological examination revealed an increased incidence and severity of 
mononuclear cell infiltration of the Harderian gland in females of all groups receiving Suboxone and 
in males receiving ≥500 ppm.  However, as there is no known clinical effect of insult to the Harderian 
gland, the toxicological importance of these findings remains unclear. No toxicological relevant target 
©EMEA 2006 
8/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
organ  toxicity  was  apparent  apart  from  weight  changes  of  the  liver  and  histological  effects  on  the 
kidneys, probably adaptive effects due to the high doses administered. 
Safety margins based on AUC were calculated based on human data from Clinical Study CR97/007: 
Table 7  
Rat : human buprenorphine ratios based on AUC (ng·h/ml) 
Dietary concentration 
of Suboxone  (ppm) 
Buprenorphine dose (mg) 
100 
500 
1500 
2000 
4 
7.3 
28.2 
73.6 
93.9 
8 
4.4 
17.1 
44.7 
57.0 
16 
2.5 
9.7 
25.4 
32.4 
 Table 8 
Rat : human naloxone ratios based on AUC (ng·h/ml) 
Dietary concentration 
of Suboxone (ppm) 
Naloxone dose (mg) 
100 
500 
1500 
2000 
1 
NC 
15.1 
231.8 
244.5 
2 
NC 
8.5 
130.8 
137.9 
4 
NC 
5.0 
76.1 
80.3 
NC = Not calculated.  Plasma concentration less than LLOQ (0.5 ng/ml). 
24 
2.0 
7.6 
20.0 
25.5 
6 
NC 
4.4 
68.0 
71.7 
The toxicokinetic data obtained in rats following dietary administration of buprenorphine: naloxone at 
a  ratio  of  4:1  also  suggests  that  both  rats  and  dogs  receiving  development  formulations  of 
buprenorphine:  naloxone  at  a  ratio  of  1:1  by  the  oral  route  would  have  received  toxicologically 
significant exposures to both of the active ingredients.  
No  novel  toxicological  aspects  rose  from  the  studies  with  a  mixture  of  buprenorphine/naloxone  in 
comparison with knowledge about the compounds alone. Based on toxicokinetic data raised from the 
dietary  study  with  Suboxone,  an  exposure  of  animals  sufficiently  above  the  maximum  therapeutic 
dose  in  humans  has  been  reached.  Clinical  signs  reflected  the  pharmacodynamics  of  the  active 
ingredients.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Standard  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genotoxicity  tests  with  buprenorphine  and  naloxone  were  negative 
indicating that both compounds are devoid of genotoxic properties.  
A  7-day  dietary  palatability  study  in  rats,  a  subacute  28  day  dietary  toxicity  study  in  rats  and 
associated mutagenicity studies have also been completed in order to investigate the potential toxicity 
and genotoxicity of synthesis impurities and degradants of Suboxone. 
Synthesis  impurity  D  (7,8-didehydronaloxone)  present  in  naloxone  was  found  clastogenic  in  vitro 
studies  with  human  lymphocytes.  The  proposed  specification  limit  of  7,8-didehydronaloxone  will 
result  in    exposure  below  the  Threshold  of  Toxicological  Concern  (TTC)  of  1.5  µg/day  which  is 
recommended  for  setting  acceptable  daily  intake  limits  of  genotoxic  impurities  by  the  EU  Draft 
Guideline on the Limits of Genotoxic Impurities (CHMP/SWP/5199/02).   
A series of other synthesis impurities and degradants was reviewed for structure-activity relationship 
and were reported to be devoid of structural alerts. However, the process used to determine alerting 
structures was not fully clear and needed further clarification. The applicant further provided sufficient 
information about the approaches used (in house and at FDA) in assessing structural alerts as part of 
©EMEA 2006 
9/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the toxicological qualification of impurities and degradants. The applied approach for qualifying the 
impurities/degradants is acceptable.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
A  2-year  dietary  carcinogenicity  study  with  Suboxone  was  conducted  in  rats  at  doses  of  7,  30  and 
120 mg/kg/day, with estimated exposure multiples of 3 to 75 times, based on a human daily sublingual 
dose  of  16 mg  calculated  on  a  mg/m²  basis.  Statistically  significant  increases  in  the  incidence  of 
benign testicular interstitial (Leydig's) cell adenomas were observed in all dosage groups. 
A dose-related reduction in the incidence of adenomas in the pars distalis (male and female rats) and a 
decreased  incidence  of  mammary  hyperplasia  were  also  observed.  The  reduced  incidence  of  these 
finding  were  below  internal  as  well  as  historical  controls.  Similar  findings  had  been  reported  for 
Buprenorphine alone but at a lower incidence. 
The Applicant supplied a number of possible explanations for the discrepancy between Suboxone and 
Buprenorphine alone regarding Leydig cell adenoma formation and proposed a mechanism for tumour 
formation, the modification of GnRH release could results in downstream effects on sexual hormone 
levels due to interference at the opiate receptors this would be responsible for the induction of Leydig 
cell adenomas in male rats and the accompanying hyperplasia. However, the mechanistic hypothesis 
was not accompanied by hormonal determinations. 
To further elucidate the mechanism of induction of the Leydig cell tumours, the Applicant was asked 
to  provide  acceptable  historical  control  data  on  the  same  strain  of  rat  and,  information  on  sexual 
hormone  levels  and  buprenorphine  and  bupernorphine/naloxone  administration  and/or  conducting  a 
new study.  
After consideration of new made available published data, an additional study in rats to investigate the 
hormonal effects of Suboxone appeared not longer justified. 
This issue is taken into account in section 5.3 of the SPC. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Suboxone was evaluated in a fertility and early embryonic development study in the rat with dietary 
admixture  of  the  test  substance.  Toxicokinetic  data  were  obtained  concomitantly  with  the  fertility 
study.  Embryotoxicity  studies  of  development  formulations  (buprenorphine:naloxone  1:1  for  oral  or 
3:2  for  intramuscular  administration,  in  terms  of  bases)  were  conducted  in  rats  and  rabbits  by  both, 
oral  and intramuscular application. Studies were conducted according to GLP. No study on prenatal 
and  postnatal  development  was  performed.  However,  the  applicant  appropriately  discussed  and 
evaluated  different  studies,  which  investigated  effects  of  buprenorphine  or  naloxone  on  the  prenatal 
and postnatal development in the ARD. 
In the fertility study, suboxone induced toxicity in the parental generation at all dose groups. At dose 
levels of 100 ppm or greater an increase in the incidence of non-pregnant females was observed. High 
pre-implantation losses were noticed at doses of 500 ppm or greater.  
No teratogenic effects of the development formulations of buprenorphine and naloxone were noted in 
the embryotoxicty studies in rats and rabbits. However, treatment of pregnant rats and rabbits caused 
maternal  toxicity.  Reduced  body  weight  gain,  reduced  food  consumption  and  adverse  clinical  signs 
were frequently observed. In the rat, dose-related increases in the number of resorptions and decreases 
in the number of live fetuses were noticed after oral application of 10 mg/kg/day or greater. After i.m. 
administration in the rat, high post-implantation-losses, and consequently a reduced number of fetuses 
occurred  at  30  mg/kg/day.  In  the  rabbit,  two  dams  receiving  the  highest  oral  dose  (40  mg/kg/day) 
aborted and one dam receiving the highest i.m. dose (30 mg/kg/day) showed a total resorption of litter. 
Despite the availability of toxicokinetic data in the fertility study in the rat, as part of the total package 
of reproductive and developmental toxicity studies, the applicant failed to discuss NOAEL levels and 
did  not  calculate  any  exposure  margins  in  relation  to  human  exposure.  In  the  anwers  the  applicant 
identified  NOAEL  levels  for  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity.  Exposure  margins  were 
©EMEA 2006 
10/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
calculated in an adequate manner. As far as toxicokinetic data were available, exposure margins were 
based  on  AUC  otherwise  exposure  multiples  were  based  on  mg/m2  comparisons.  The  calculated 
exposure margins replaced the mg/kg –details in section 5.3 of the SPC. 
•  Local tolerance  
No  specific  local  tolerance  studies  were  conducted  with  Suboxone  in  animal  models.    The  intended 
human sublingual route is not a practical route of administration in common laboratory animal species.  
Extensive data from human clinical trials indicate that Suboxone is well tolerated when administered 
by the sublingual route in man. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
N.A. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The predicted environmental concentration (PEC) calculation initially provided by the applicant was 
incorrect.  
The  applicant  has  not  provided  an  environmental  risk  assessment  according  to  Phase  II  of  the 
for  human  use 
guideline  on 
(CHMP/SWP/4447/00).  This  would  have  been  necessary  because  the  concentration  in  the  aquatic 
environment predicted according to Phase I of the guideline exceeds the trigger of 10 ng/l. 
risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products 
the  environmental 
As  the  marketing  authorization  procedure  for  Suboxone  started  in  October  2005,  before  the 
publication of the adopted guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for 
human  use  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00),  it  would  be  accepted  an  environmental  risk  assessment 
according to the draft of the guideline published in January 2005.  
According  to  the  draft  of  2005  the  trigger  of  10  ng/l  is  exceeded  and  a  phase  II  environmental  risk 
assessment following this draft would be necessary.  
In  his  response  to  the  Day  180  LoOI,  the  applicant  uses  the  guideline  adopted  in  June  2006  for  the 
environmental  risk  assessment  of  Suboxone.  The  default  Fpen  for  the  calculation  of  the  predicted 
environmental concentration in surface water in Phase I of the guideline is 1 %. It is possible to refine 
the factor based on reasonably justified published data. The PEC-refinement based on published UN 
data  on  the  prevalence  of  the  abuse  of  opiates  is  agreed.  However,  the  further  refinement  of  Fpen 
conducted  by  the  applicant  is  not  acceptable.  No  valid  data  have  been  presented  to  justify  the 
refinement based on market share and according to the guideline; the maximum daily dose is used for 
PEC-calculations in Phase I for all products. Using the Fpen of 0.43 %, the trigger of 10 ng/l is still 
exceeded. Therefore, a phase II environmental risk assessment is required. Besides that, the guideline 
of 2006 demands a Phase I pbt assessment for substances with a log Kow >4.5 like Buprenorphine. 
This has been taken into account in the FUM, non- clinical.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Where  suboxone  has  been  developed  for  long-term  use  in  humans,  the  duration  of  repeated  dose 
toxicity  studies  with  the  combination  of  the  active  ingredients  does  not  meet  the  criteria  of  current 
guidelines.  
However, taking into account that both sufficient chronic toxicity studies with buprenorphine alone, 
and data about naloxone from a 6- month repeated dose combination study with tilidine/naloxone are 
available,  the  non  clinical  programme  on  repeated  dose  toxicity  is  considered  sufficient  for  the 
combination of the two substances which are established in clinical use. 
©EMEA 2006 
11/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
This is an application for a fixed combination. The new product is containing known active substances 
not used previously in combination (Article 10.1.(b)). 
The  Note  for  Guidance  on  fixed  combination  medicinal  products  describes  some  general  rules  for 
fixed  combinations.  Each  substance  of  the  fixed  combination  must  have  documented  contribution 
within the combination and it will be necessary to show therapeutic advantages of the combination in 
the  clinical  situation  against  possible  disadvantages.  A  simplification  of  therapy  as  the  only 
justification will be acceptable in particular situations only. 
The applicant justifies the development of Suboxone with the objective of having a similar sublingual 
effectiveness  and  safety  profile  as  buprenorphine  tablets,  but  with  a  lower  intravenous  misuse 
potential.  From  a  regulatory  point  of  view  and  after  application  of  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  fixed 
combination medicinal products the reduction of misuse potential is not a convincing justification for 
the application of a fixed combination with buprenorphine and naloxone.  
However,  in  clinical  view  the  advantages  result,  that  on  the  one  hand  the  medicinal  product  is  not 
practical for misuse and on the other hand could be made available as take home medication. This fact 
contributes to a higher acceptance of the substitution therapy. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Suboxone  is  a  fixed  dose  combination  tablet  of  buprenorphine  and  naloxone  in  a  4:1  ratio.  Most  of 
pharmacokinetic  studies  of  Suboxone  and  buprenorphine  (as  a  reference)  were  undertaken  in 
volunteers experienced in opiate use but not dependent on opiates.  
The sublingual bioavailability of buprenorphine and naloxone from Suboxone was examined in five 
studies.  In  all  studies  a  LC/MS/MS  analysis  was  used  for  the  determination  of  buprenorphine, 
norbuprenorphine and naloxone in human plasma and urine samples. 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  buprenorphine  and  naloxone  were  determined  from  plasma 
concentration-time  profiles.  Statistical  analyses  were  performed  using  the  SAS  Statistical  analysis 
system program to compare treatments by analysis of variance (ANOVA). 
•  Absorption  
The  CR97/07  study  was  an  open-label,  dose-ascending,  four-way  crossover  study  to  evaluate  the 
pharmacokinetics  and  dose  proportionality  of  buprenorphine,  in  the  range  of  4  to  24mg,  when 
administered in sublingual tablets in combination with naloxone (at 4:1 dose ratio) in non-dependent 
opiate users. 
The  data  from  the  analysis  of  14  subjects  indicated  that  both  buprenorphine  and  naloxone  were 
quickly absorbed following sublingual administration of the combination tablet of buprenorphine and 
naloxone.  Mean  peak  plasma  levels  of  buprenorphine  (Cmax  2.33,  3.53,  5.83  and  6.44  ng/ml)  and 
naloxone (0.12, 0.25, 0.44 and 0.47 ng/ml) increased following 4 mg + 1 mg, 8 mg + 2 mg, 16 mg + 4 
mg and 24 mg + 6 mg sublingual doses of Suboxone. Mean AUC0-t values of buprenorphine (13.09, 
23.23, 39.38 and 47.55 h.ng/ml) and naloxone (0.12, 0.30, 0.53 and 0.60 h.ng/ml) also increased with 
the  sublingual  dose  of  Suboxone.    The  mean  elimination  half-life  of  buprenorphine  following 
sublingual  dosing  was  34  (14-116,  N=53)  hours,  and  that  for  naloxone  was  1.24  (0.33-3.14,  N=48) 
hours.  Although linear, the increases in buprenorphine AUC were not proportional to the dose.  There 
was a wide inter-patient variability in the sublingual absorption of buprenorphine. 
The study results demonstrate a non-dose proportional increase of buprenorphine AUC. 
©EMEA 2006 
12/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  CR96/023  had  two  objectives:  to  assess  the  relative  and  absolute  bioavailability  of  a 
buprenorphine  (8mg)  and  naloxone  (2  mg)  tablet  when  administered  orally  and  sublingually,  and  to 
evaluate the subjective and physiologic effects of orally and sublingually administered buprenorphine 
and  naloxone  tablets.  The  study  was  an  open  label,  balanced  3x3  Latin  square  crossover  design. 
Results shoed that absolute bioavailability of buprenorphine from the sublingually administered tablet 
was  significantly  greater  than  the  bioavailability  from  the tablet administered orally (13.6 +/- 6.6 % 
compared  to  6  .0  +/-  4.1%).  Naloxone  was  approximately  3%  bioavailable  sublingually  while  its 
bioavailability from the tablet taken orally was practically zero. Therefore, the AUC data indicate that 
sublingual  administration  yields  2.5  times  more  buprenorphine  than  oral  and  the  bioavailability  of 
naloxone after sublingual or oral administration is very low. 
Study NIDA #01-1 was conducted to compare simultaneous administration of 4 tablets comprising a 
20mg  Suboxone  dose  (2  x  2  mg  tablets  plus  2  x  8  mg)  with  sequential  administration  of  2  x  8  mg 
tablets  followed  later  by  2  x  2  mg  tablets,  after  the  first  tablets  had  disintegrated.  These  were 
considered  as  supportive  data.  No  absorption  differences  were  observed  between  simultaneous  or 
sequential administration of 4 Suboxone tablets. 
Study  CR96/012  was  an  open-label,  single  dose,  four-period,  dose-escalation  study  to  evaluate 
whether plasma concentrations of buprenorphine increase proportionally to buprenorphine dose in the 
range  of  4  to  24  mg  administered  as  Buprenorphine  alone  sublingual  tablets,  and  to  evaluate  the 
safety,  and  dose-response  of  subjective  and  physiological  effects  of  buprenorphine.    The  study 
comprised four 3-day treatment periods separated by a washout period of at least ten days.   
Examination  of  individual  patient  dose−response  curves  following  4  mg,  8  mg,  16  mg  and  24  mg 
Buprenorphine alone showed that mean values of buprenorphine Cmax were 1.99, 2.65, 4.42, and 5.41 
ng/ml.  Mean AUC0-72h values were 9.37, 19.92, 34.94 and 48.81 h.ng/ml from the lowest to highest 
dose  level  respectively.  Although  linear,  the  increases  in  AUC  were  not  proportional  to  the  dose.  
There was a wide inter-patient variability in the sublingual absorption of buprenorphine. 
In  accordance  with  the  above  mentioned  Suboxone  study  (CR97/07)  the  study  results  of  CR96/012 
demonstrate  a  non  dose  proportional  pharmacokinetic  of  buprenorphine  after  administration  of 
Buprenorphine  alone.    AUC,  tmax,  and  Cmax  are  comparable  regarding  different  dose  strengths  in 
both studies. This results support the assumption that buprenorphine bioavailability is not influenced 
by sublingual administration of naloxone. 
Study  CR92/111  was  designed  to  assess  the  treatment  potential  of  sublingual  buprenorphine  (8mg) 
and naloxone (4mg and 8mg) combinations in subjects maintained on 8mg sublingual buprenorphine 
for 7 days. This was a double blind, double-placebo, 3x3 Latin square, within-subject study in which 
subjects were stabilised on 8mg buprenorphine sublingual solution and then challenged sublingually 
with three ratios of buprenorphine / naloxone.   
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  8  mg  sublingual  buprenorphine  when  given  alone  or  in  combination 
with  4  mg  or  8  mg  of  naloxone  was  42  ±  9%,  42  ±  12%  and  40  ±  7%,  respectively.    The  absolute 
bioavailability of 4 mg and 8 mg sublingual naloxone was 9 ± 6% and 7 ± 4% respectively.  The mean 
elimination half-life of buprenorphine following intravenous dosing was 32 (16-55) hours, and that for 
naloxone was 1.0 (0.63-1.94) hours. The absolute bioavailability of buprenorphine was not influenced 
by  simultaneous  administration  of  naloxone,  both  given  as  sublingual  solution.  Therefore  the 
bioavailability  of  buprenorphine  in  Buprenorphine  alone  or  Suboxone  is  comparable  and  is  not 
influenced by the presence of naloxone. 
©EMEA 2006 
13/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Bioequivalence 
The proof of bioequivalence for Buprenorphine in Suboxone and Buprenorphine alone was based on a 
crossover  study  (CR95/001).  According  to  results  analysis,  bioequivalence  in  the  sense  of  statistical 
significance could not be established. In fact, knowing that intra- and interindividual variability is high 
the planned number of subjects was too low and T-last interval at 48 hours was also too short. Then an 
extrapolation of AUC data is not recommended.  
However,  in  connection  with  the  data  of  the  above  mentioned  bioavailability  studies  it  can  be 
concluded  that  the  bioavailability  of  buprenorphine  in  Buprenorphine  alone  or  Suboxone  is 
comparable and is not influenced by the presence of naloxone. 
Because  of  sublingual  administration  of  Suboxone  no  additional  studies  were  conducted  regarding 
influence of food. This is acceptable. 
•  Distribution 
Buprenorphine 
Following sublingual absorption of buprenorphine, there is a rapid distribution phase. Buprenorphine 
is  widely  distributed  within  the  body.    The  mean  volume  of  distribution  obtained  following 
intravenous  administration  was  2,828  litres.    Buprenorphine  is  also  highly  protein  bound  (96%), 
primarily  to  alpha  and  beta  globulins.    The  long  terminal  elimination  phase  may  be  due  in  part  to 
reappearance of buprenorphine from deep compartments, and in part due to enterohepatic cycling of 
the buprenorphine glucuronide metabolite. 
Naloxone 
In contrast, following sublingual administration, naloxone is rapidly eliminated (median terminal half-
life  1.26  hours,  54  values).  The  mean  (range)  volume  of  distribution  of  naloxone  following 
intravenous  administration  was  370  (133-770)  litres,  which  agrees  with  the  value  of  375  (151-619) 
litres found by Aitkenhead et al (1984).  Naloxone is 45% protein bound, primarily to albumin. 
•  Metabolism and elimination 
Following sublingual administration of buprenorphine there is a very long terminal elimination phase: 
the  median  terminal  half-life  values  of  buprenorphine  following  Suboxone  (27.41  from  113  values) 
and  Buprenorphine  alone  (27.09  from  182  values)  were  similar  (Table  below).  Naloxone  is  rapidly 
eliminated.  
Table:   Terminal elimination half-life values for buprenorphine and naloxone 
Buprenorphine alone 
Buprenorphine Half-Life 
All data (3 studies) 
182 
28.67h 
11.27 
27.09h 
2.7h 
69.3h 
Suboxone 
Buprenorphine Half-Life 
All data (4 studies) 
113 
32.49h 
19.98 
27.41h 
8.98h 
161.16h 
Suboxone 
Naloxone Half-Life 
All data (2 studies) 
54 
1.22h 
0.63 
1.26h 
0.33h 
3.14h 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
Buprenorphine  
The  metabolism  of  buprenorphine  in  humans  is  by  14-N-dealkylation  and  by  conjugation  of  parent 
drug  and  the  N-dealkyl  metabolite,  norbuprenorphine,  to  glucuronides.  The  principal  route  of 
excretion is via the faeces. This was demonstrated in a study in 6 subjects dosed intravenously with 
3H-buprenorphine (CR94/006).   Radioactivity was completely recovered over a 9-day period, 69% ± 
11%  in  the  faeces  and  30%  ±  7%  in  the  urine.    Most  of  the  radioactivity  was  attributed  to  free and 
conjugated  buprenorphine  and  norbuprenorphine.    Two  unidentified  minor  metabolites  in  urine 
accounted for 0.72% and 0.9% of the dose, respectively.   
©EMEA 2006 
14/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Naloxone 
Two metabolites of naloxone, identified after hydrolysis and extraction of urine were 7,8-dihydro-14-
hydroxy-normorphinone and N-allyl-7,8-dihydro-14-hydroxy-normorphinone (Weinstein et al, 1974).  
These results indicate that N-dealkylation, reduction of the 6-oxo group and glucuronidation occurs in 
man.  The mean elimination half-life of naloxone following single sublingual doses of Suboxone was 
found to be 1.26 hours (54 values). 
It  can  be  concluded  that  the  metabolism  of  buprenorphine  is  not  influenced  by  the  simultaneous 
administration of naloxone. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  results  of  CR97/07  und  CR96/12  regarding  dose  proportionality  are  presented  above:  dose 
proportionality could not be established. This is in accordance with the results of Buprenorphine alone 
studies. 
As mentioned above additional multiple dose studies with Suboxone were not conducted. The kinetic 
data  of  the  long  term  study  CR96/014  demonstrate  that  accumulation  will  not  occur.  This  is  in 
accordance with Buprenorphine alone data. 
•  Special populations 
Kinetic  data  of  the  target  population  was  determined  in  study  CR96/014  only.  Different  results 
between  the  target  population  and  subjects  in  the  short-term  pharmacokinetic  studies  (subjects 
experienced in opiate use but not dependent) are not expected. 
Renal elimination plays a relatively small role (less than 30% after IV administration) in the overall 
clearance  of  buprenorphine.    No  difference  was  observed  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  intravenous 
buprenorphine  in  nine  subjects  with  end-stage  renal  failure  compared  with  control  subjects  with 
normal  renal  function. 
  However,  plasma  concentrations  of  the  two  inactive  metabolites, 
norbuprenorphine and buprenorphine-3-glucuronide, were increased by 4 and 15 times, respectively in 
subjects  with  renal  failure.    No  dose  modification  based  on  renal  function  is  required.  Based  on the 
fact that the effects have been studied only under short-term dosing of buprenorphine, it is accepted to 
mention a precaution for use in subjects with severe renal impairment in the SPC. 
Impaired  hepatic  function:  buprenorphine  is  metabolised  by  both  oxidation  and  glucuronidation  and 
most  of  the  elimination  is  biliary.    The  clearance  of  buprenorphine  approaches  hepatic  blood  flow.  
Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  indicated  that  clearance  was  reduced  in  subjects  who  had 
elevated  ALT  or  elevated  bilirubin.    Therefore,  the  actions  of  buprenorphine  may  be  prolonged  in 
subjects with impaired hepatic function.  
Buprenorphine  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment.  This  is  also  stated  in 
section 4.3 of the SPC. 
Gender,  race  and  weight:  A  population  pharmacokinetic  assessment  was  undertaken  using 
buprenorphine plasma concentration data from the Suboxone study (CR96/013 + CR96/014) and three 
other studies (CR94/001, CR95/001, CR97/007).  The analysis showed that the pharmacokinetics of 
buprenorphine are described by either a one- or two-compartment disposition model with first-order 
absorption and an absorption lag time.  The clearance of buprenorphine (>60 litres/hour) approached 
hepatic  blood  flow.    The  one-compartment  NONMEM  model  predicted  that  increasing  age  and 
increasing AST or ALT levels were associated with at least a 20% decrease in clearance rate relative 
to  the  population  standard  value.    Similarly,  in  the  two-compartment  model,  the  clearance  rate  of 
buprenorphine appeared to decrease with increased bilirubin, increased ALT and female gender. 
The  influence  of  gender,  ethnicity,  age  and  weight  on  buprenorphine  Cmax  and  AUC  values  were 
examined  in  the  meta-analysis  of  PK  parameters  from  single  dose  studies  of  Suboxone  and 
Buprenorphine  alone.    With  the  exception  of  ‘race’  in  the  model  results  for  AUC(0-72)  of 
buprenorphine  following  the  dosing  of  “volunteers,  naltrexone  block”  subjects  with  Buprenorphine 
alone, no analysis found a statistically significant effect of the four demographic variables of gender, 
race weight and age.  The statistical significance of ‘race’ may have been due to the large imbalance 
between the numbers of Caucasians in the analysis group, compared with other races. 
©EMEA 2006 
15/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly:  No  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  designed  to  be  conducted  with  Suboxone  in  the  elderly 
populations. 
Children: No pharmacokinetic studies were designed to be conducted with Suboxone in children. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  special  population  was  evaluated  in  the  development  program  of 
Buprenorphine alone. The results can be carried forward to Suboxone. No difference was observed in 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  buprenorphine  in  subjects  with  normal  renal  function.  Even  if  the 
concentration  of  metabolites  were  increased  the  dose  may  not  be  adjusted  in  patients  with  renal 
impairment.  However,  the  company  decided  to include a statement of precaution for use in subjects 
with severe renal impairment in the SPC.  
Suboxone should be contraindicated in subjects with severe impaired hepatic function. The influence 
of  gender,  ethnicity  and  weight  was  also  evaluated  in  the  Suboxone  pharmacokinetic  trials.  No 
additional warnings regarding special populations are necessary. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Cytochrome  P450  specificity  studies  have  shown  that  CYP3A4  is  responsible  for  the  metabolic 
conversion  of  buprenorphine  to  norbuprenorphine.    Therefore,  potent  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4  (e.g., 
protease inhibitors like ritonavir, nelfinavir, or indinavir, or azole antifungals such as ketoconazole or 
itraconazole)  have  the  potential  to  increase  plasma  concentrations  of  buprenorphine.    Similarly, 
inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampicin) have the potential to 
reduce  buprenorphine  plasma  concentrations  because  of  increased  metabolism  of  buprenorphine  to 
norbuprenorphine.  
An  interaction  study  of  buprenorphine  with  ketoconazole,  has  been  undertaken  (P01242).  Subjects 
received  8 mg,  12 mg,  or  16 mg  Buprenorphine  alone  per  day  for  two  weeks,  and  ketoconazole 
400 mg/day was added for six days.  Ketoconazole administration resulted in clinically significant, 2-
fold  increases  in  both  Cmax  and  AUC  of  buprenorphine  after  sublingual  administration  of 
Buprenorphine  alone.    The  SPC  contains  statements  in  Section  4.4  ‘Special  warnings  and  special 
precautions  for  use’,  and  Section  4.5  ‘Interaction  with  other  medicinal  products  and  other  forms  of 
interaction’ relating to this interaction. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  rationale  for  developing  Suboxone  for  use  in  treating  opioid  dependency  is  that  it  should  be 
similar  in  efficacy  to  buprenorphine  alone  when  taken  sublingually,  but  should  produce  opiate 
withdrawal  effects  if  misused  intravenously  by  an  opioid-dependent  subject.  This  rationale  is 
grounded on the fact that sublingual bioavailability of naloxone is poor. Naloxone is not expected to 
exert  any  pharmacological  effect  after  sublingual  administration  of  Suboxone.  Therefore, 
pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  using  the  parenteral  route  and/or 
sublingual route of administration to investigate whether Suboxone complies with this rationale 
•  Mechanism of action 
Buprenorphine  is  a  potent  opioid  analgesic.  It  acts  as  a  partial  agonist  at  the  µ-opiate  receptor  with 
high affinity to this receptor type and as an antagonist at the k-receptor. Agonistic effects at µ-opiate 
receptors lead to euphoria, sedation, constipation, analgesia and respiratory depression. However as a 
partial agonist, buprenorphine has maximal opioid effects lower than those of full agonists, providing 
a wider safety margin. The analgesic potency of buprenorphine is 25-50 times higher (on a weight by 
weight  basis)  than  that  of  morphine.  Buprenorphine  has  been  widely  used  for  two  decades  and  has 
proved to be a strong analgesic in relieving moderate to severe acute and chronic pain.  
Naloxone  hydrochloride  is  a  semisynthetic  opioid  antagonist.  When  administered  in  usual  doses  to 
patients who have not recently received opioides, naloxone exerts little or no pharmacologic effect. In 
patients  who  have  received  large  doses  of  opioides,  naloxone  antagonises  most  of  the  effects  of  the 
opioid.  Because  the  duration  of  action  of  naloxone  is  generally  shorter  than  that  of  the  opioid,  the 
effects of the opioid may return as the effects of naloxone dissipates. 
However,  0.4  mg  of  naloxone  administered  iv  or  sc  will  precipitate  potentially  severe  withdrawal 
symptoms  in  patients  physically  dependent  on  opioides  or  pentazocine.  The  precise  mechanism  of 
©EMEA 2006 
16/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
action  of  the  opioid  antagonist  effects  of  naloxone  is  not  known.  Naloxone  is  thought  to  act  as  a 
competitive antagonist at µ, K or σ opioid receptors in the central nervous system.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  following  studies  provide  information  about  the  acute  effects  of  buprenorphine  +  naloxone 
combinations  on  physiological  parameters,  and  were  all  conducted  in  opioid-dependent  subjects. 
Different  subgroups  were  evaluated:  heroin  dependent  subjects;  subjects  stabilized  with  morphine; 
patients in controlled methadone programs. 
CR93/005  Study  (Low  Dose  Buprenorphine  and  Naloxone  Interactions  in  Opioid  Dependent 
Volunteers) was an inpatient, double blind, double-placebo, within subject, 4x4 Latin square study to 
evaluate the physiological and subjective effects of intravenous buprenorphine (0.4mg) and naloxone 
(0.4mg), alone and in combination, in opiate-dependent subjects On four separate occasions, at least 
five days apart, subjects were randomly administered: 0.4mg buprenorphine + 0.4mg naloxone, 0.4mg 
buprenorphine + placebo, placebo + 0.4mg naloxone, and placebo. 
The opiate agonist effects of 0.4mg intravenous buprenorphine in heroin dependent subjects, measured 
by subjective and objective assessment, were very mild, and had a similar agonist profile to placebo at 
this  dose.  None  of  the  subjects  indicated  they  would  pay  money  for  this  buprenorphine  dose.  The 
combination  formulation  acted  more  like  an  opiate  antagonist  than  an  opiate  agonist  on  all 
physiological and subjective variables examined; intravenous administration of 0.4mg buprenorphine 
+ 0.4mg naloxone gave similar pharmacological effects to 0.4mg naloxone. All the heroin dependent 
subjects perceived both treatments as dysphoric and unpleasant.   
CR93/004  Study  (Intravenous  Buprenorphine  and  Naloxone  Interactions  in  Opiate-Dependent 
Volunteers) was a double blind, placebo controlled, crossover study to evaluate the physiological and 
subjective effects of intravenous buprenorphine (2mg) and naloxone (2mg) alone and in combination 
in opiate-dependent subjects. Intravenous buprenorphine at a dose of 2mg gave typical opiate agonist 
effects  in  the  heroin  dependent  subjects.    Significant  increases  were  noted  in  subjective  ratings  of 
global intoxication, on the opiate agonist scale and visual analogue scales for ‘high’, ‘drug liking’ and 
‘good  drug’  effect.    However,  as  judged  by  the  subjects'  spontaneous  comments,  intravenous 
buprenorphine did not produce the same intense, immediate effect as intravenous heroin.   
Intravenous injection of 2mg buprenorphine + 2mg naloxone produced short-lived but intense opiate 
withdrawal  which  was  indistinguishable  from  the  effects  of  naloxone  alone.  The  combination 
significantly  attenuated  subjects'  rating  of  global  intoxication,  ‘drug  liking’  and  ‘good  drug’.  
Qualitatively,  naloxone  effects  were  attenuated  by  buprenorphine.    However  during  the  antagonist 
phase immediately following injection, the buprenorphine + naloxone combination was perceived to 
be  as  dysphoric  and  unpleasant  as  naloxone  alone.  Therefore  the  buprenorphine  and  naloxone 
combination has a low abuse potential in opiate-dependent daily heroin users. 
CR94/003  Study  (Buprenorphine  and  Naloxone  Interactions  in  Morphine-Stabilised  Opiate-
Dependent  Volunteers)  was  a  double  blind,  placebo-controlled,  partially  balanced,  cross-over  study.  
Subjects  were  admitted  to  an  inpatient  unit  and  for  the  first  five  days  were  stabilised  on  a  dose  of 
60mg  morphine  per  day  given  as  four  intramuscular  doses  of  15mg.  Opiate  agonist  effects  were 
substantial  and  similar  in  magnitude  following  15  mg  intramuscular  morphine  and  2mg  intravenous 
buprenorphine  administration.    Combining  naloxone  with  buprenorphine  attenuated  some  of  the 
pleasurable  opiate  agonist  effects  seen  with  buprenorphine  alone:  the  2:1  ratio  diminished  all  opiate 
agonist  measures  as  compared  to  buprenorphine  alone;  the  4:1  and  8:1  ratios  decreased  global 
intoxication and opiate agonist scale indices, but did not alter ‘drug liking’. 
Each of the three intravenously administered buprenorphine + naloxone combinations had measurable 
short-term opiate antagonist effects.  All measures of opiate withdrawal were significantly increased 
by the 2:1 and 4:1 ratio combinations compared with buprenorphine alone, whereas only self-reports 
of global withdrawal were significantly increased with the 8:1 ratio.  Antagonist effects peaked at five 
minutes then dissipated allowing opiate agonist effects to emerge but in a dose-dependent manner with 
the longest duration of antagonism produced by the 2:1 ratio. 
All combination ratios significantly diminished the subject’s estimated street value of buprenorphine 
and were generally reported by subjects as unattractive as agents for intoxication.  Subjects were asked 
to  estimate  the  US  dollar  value  they  would  pay for  the challenge dose if it were sold illicitly.  Five 
minutes after the intramuscular challenge, subjects rated 15mg morphine the highest ($12), followed 
©EMEA 2006 
17/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by  2mg  buprenorphine  ($8).    In  contrast,  the  8:1,  4:1  and  2:1  ratios  of  buprenorphine/naloxone  had 
markedly lower peak dollar values of $2, $2 and $0. The dollar value of the placebo was $1.  
Intravenous  administration  of  2:1  and  4:1  buprenorphine/naloxone  combinations  reliably  produced 
brief  opiate  withdrawal  symptoms  and  was  judged  sufficiently  unpleasant  by  opiate-dependent 
individuals  to  suggest  a  relatively  low  parenteral  abuse  liability  by  people  using  opiates  regularly.  
Based  on  observations  from  this  study,  a  4:1  ratio  of  buprenorphine  to  naloxone  was  chosen  for 
Suboxone tablet formulation development. 
Bupp 4243 Study (Effects of Buprenorphine and Naloxone in Morphine-Stabilised Opioid Addicts) 
This was a double blind, placebo-controlled randomised five-period crossover (two 5 x 5 Latin square) 
study,  designed  to  evaluate  the  individual  and  combined  effects  of  intravenously  administered 
buprenorphine  and  naloxone  This  dosage  was  continued  throughout  the  study.    Over  a  14-18  day 
period following stabilisation, subjects received single intravenous challenge doses of placebo, 15mg 
morphine, 2mg buprenorphine, 2mg buprenorphine + 0.5mg naloxone (4:1 ratio), and 0.5mg naloxone 
challenges in random order at 48h to 72h intervals.  Morphine produced significant ‘good’ effects as 
assessed  on  the  VAS-G  scale  whereas  2mg  buprenorphine  in  these  patients  was  not  significantly 
different  from  placebo.    Similarly  the  2mg  buprenorphine  +  0.5mg  naloxone  combination  was  no 
different  from  placebo  on  this  scale.    On  the  agonist  effects  checklist  none  of  the  challenges  was 
associated with typical opioid-like effects.  
Both  naloxone  and  buprenorphine  +  naloxone  were  associated  with  significant  withdrawal  effects 
compared  to  placebo  as  assessed  by  the  CINA  scale  measured  during  the  first  25min  and  60min 
periods.  The  effects  produced  by  the  buprenorphine  +  naloxone  combination  were  not  significantly 
different from those produced by naloxone.  
A  combination  of  buprenorphine  +  naloxone  in  a  4:1  ratio  produced  significant  intravenous  opiate 
antagonist  effects  similar  to  those  produced  by  naloxone.    This  should  limit  its  potential  for 
intravenous abuse by opioid addicts.   
This study supports the results of study CR94/03 described above. 
CR92/110 Study (Buprenorphine and Naloxone Interactions in Methadone Maintained Subject)s  was 
a  double  blind,  placebo-controlled,  randomised  4x4  Latin  square  crossover  study  to  evaluate  the 
physiological  and  subjective  effects  of  intravenous  buprenorphine  (0.2mg)  and  naloxone  (0.1mg), 
alone and in combination in opiate-dependent subjects.  Subjects were randomly challenged on four 
separate occasions at least one day apart with intravenously administered 0.2mg buprenorphine, 0.1mg 
naloxone,  0.2mg  buprenorphine  +  0.1mg  naloxone  and  placebo.    The  subjects  were  physically 
dependent  opiate  users  who  had  been  receiving  40-60  mg  daily  methadone  maintenance  for  at  least 
three months.Intravenous buprenorphine at a dose of 0.2mg generally produced only minimal opiate 
agonist effects that were no different from placebo.  This was not surprising since the subjects were 
maintained on moderate doses of methadone.   
The combination of buprenorphine + naloxone produced withdrawal as great or greater than naloxone 
alone and resulted in one subject precipitously leaving the study.  Similarly buprenorphine + naloxone 
and naloxone alone produced opiate antagonist effects on heart rate and systolic and diastolic blood 
pressure.   
Therfore  the  combination  of  buprenorphine  0.2mg  +  naloxone  0.1mg  has  a  low  abuse  liability  in 
methadone  maintained  subjects  as  it  produces  significant  withdrawal  symptoms  in  methadone- 
stabilized subjects after intravenous low dose administration.  
subjects 
received  5  dose 
Bupp  5257  Study  (Buprenorphine/naloxone  Combination  Tablet:  effects  in  Opioid  Dependent 
Volunteers)  was  undertaken  to  assess  the  subjective,  objective  and  physiological  effects  of 
buprenorphine/naloxone  combinations  and  buprenorphine  in  opioid-dependent  volunteers.    On 
separate  occasions, 
tablets 
(buprenorphine/naloxone:  1/0.25mg,  2/0.5mg,  4/1mg,  8/2mg,  and  16/4mg),  8mg  taste-matched 
buprenorphine  tablet,  intramuscular  4:1  buprenorphine  /  naloxone  injections  (1/0.25mg,  2/0.5mg, 
4/1mg, 8/2mg, and 16/4mg), 8mg intramuscular buprenorphine, 10mg intramuscular hydromorphone, 
  Intramuscular  administration  of  4:1  combinations  of 
and  0.25mg  intramuscular  naloxone. 
buprenorphine + naloxone (1/0.25mg, 2/0.5mg, 4/1mg, 8/2mg and 16/4mg) to 8 subjects stabilised on 
40mg oral hydromorphone per day produced dose-related antagonist responses for observer rating of 
withdrawal,  and  subjective  ‘bad  effects’.  Significant  withdrawal  effects  were  observed  only  for 
intramuscular  buprenorphine/naloxone  16/4mg.  In  contrast,  intramuscular  buprenorphine  gave  only 
levels  of  Suboxone 
sublingual 
©EMEA 2006 
18/42 
 
 
 
 
 
opioid agonist effects.  Sublingual buprenorphine/naloxone was well tolerated in the opioid dependent 
subjects and neither precipitated withdrawal nor showed opioid agonist effects. 
The  study  results  demonstrate  that  different  sublingual  doses  of  the  buprenorphine/naloxone  4:1 
produce opioid agonistic effects only. The intramuscular administration causes antagonistic effects as 
expected. 
Bupp 3712 Study (Buprenorphine's physical dependence potential: antagonist-precipitated withdrawal 
in  humans)  had  the  primary  purpose  to  determine  whether  any  physical  dependence  resulting  from 
chronic buprenorphine maintenance could be demonstrated using a precipitated withdrawal procedure 
with  naloxone  or  naltrexone.    After  a  2-week  outpatient  buprenorphine  induction  and  stabilisation 
period  subjects  were  admitted  onto  a  closed  14-bed  behavioural  pharmacology  research  unit  for 
approximately 6 weeks.  Subjects received 2, and 4 mg buprenorphine sublingual solution on Days 1 
and 2, and 8 mg/day for the rest of the two-week stabilisation period.  In the experimental unit they 
were maintained on 8 mg/day given at 08:00h each day. On challenge days they were given one of the 
following at 10:00h, ordered by Latin square and presented double blind and double-dummy: placebo, 
naloxone 0.3, 1, 3 and 10 mg /70kg i.m. and naltrexone 0.3, 1 and 3 mg /70kg orally separated by a 
least 72 hours.  Behavioural and physiologic responses were measured over the following 12 hours.  
After  the  final  challenge  session  the  buprenorphine  dose  was  tapered  to  zero  over  4  days  and  the 
subjects received placebo for a further 5 days.   
Both  naloxone  and  naltrexone  produced  orderly  dose-related  and  time-related  effects  on  multiple 
variables assessing withdrawal.  Generally, intramuscular doses of 3mg produced withdrawal effects. 
High  doses  of  intramuscular  naloxone  produce  withdrawal  effects  in  subjects  stabilized  on 
buprenorphine.  The  dose  was  10  times  greater  than  doses  that  precipitate  withdrawal  in  subjects 
maintained on 30mg methadone. The applicant came to the conclusion that the need for higher doses 
is  consistent  with  the  presence  of  only  a  low  level  of  physical  dependence  in  buprenorphine 
maintained subjects.  
The observed effect could be explained by the high affinity of buprenorphine (higher than the affinity 
of  naloxone)  to  µ-receptors.  Therefore  naloxone  is  not  suitable  for  the  treatment  of  buprenorphine 
intoxication.  
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
The  efficacy  in  relation  to  plasma  concentration  was  evaluated  in  the  Buprenorphine  alone  studies. 
The effects were not influenced by simultaneous sublingual administration of naloxone in doses up to 
32/8mg Suboxone.  
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicinal products or substances  
Pharmacodynamic  interactions  were  not  evaluated  for  the  fixed  combination.  Post  marketing 
information regarding pharmacodynamic interactions will be provided.  
Overall conclusions on pharmacodynamics 
The  rationale  for  developing  Suboxone  for  use  in  treating  opioid  dependency  is  that  it  should  be 
similar  in  efficacy  to  buprenorphine  alone  when  taken  sublingually,  but  should  produce  opiate 
withdrawal effects if misused intravenously by an opioid-dependent subject.  
The intravenous or intramuscular administration of buprenorphine/naloxone causes withdrawal effects 
in  heroin  dependent  subjects,  and  also  in  morphine-  or  methadone-  stabilized  subjects.  Sublingual 
administration of the buprenorphine/naloxone 4:1 combination produces opioid agonistic effects only.  
High  doses  of  intramuscular  naloxone  produce  withdrawal  effects  in  subjects  stabilized  on 
buprenorphine.  The  dose  was  10  times  greater  than  doses  that  precipitate  withdrawal  in  subjects 
maintained on 30mg methadone. The applicant came to the conclusion that the need for higher doses 
is  consistent  with  the  presence  of  only  a  low  level  of  physical  dependence  in  buprenorphine 
maintained subjects.  
It  can  be  concluded  from  the  results  of  the  pharmacodynamic  studies  that  the  intravenous  misuse 
potential  for  Suboxone  is  very  low  in  comparison  with  buprenorphine  alone.  The  intravenous  or 
©EMEA 2006 
19/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intramuscular administration produces withdrawal effects in all opiate dependent subjects. Sublingual 
or oral administration of naloxone in doses up to 8mg has no pharmacodynamic effects. 
Clinical efficacy  
This  Section  reviews  the  studies  that  show  the  efficacy  of  Suboxone  for  the  clinical  indication  of 
“Substitution  treatment  for  major  opioid  drug  dependence,  within  a  comprehensive  therapeutic 
monitoring  framework  of  medical,  social  and  psychological  treatment”.  Of  the  fully  reported  trials, 
one  was  conducted  with  Suboxone  (CR96/013+CR96/014),  and  one  with  Buprenorphine  alone 
(CR96/013). Three 52-week studies of Suboxone provide evidence for the long-term effectiveness of 
Suboxone (CR96/013+CR96/014, NIDA #1018, US08). Three double blind pilot studies of Suboxone 
provided  dose-finding  information  prior  to  commencing  study  CR96/013+CR96/014,  or  provide 
information about less than daily dosing of Suboxone (CR95/002, Bupp 4729, Bupp 5113). 
The main Suboxone efficacy studies are CR96/013 and CR96/014. All the other studies presented in 
the  table  are  pilot  efficacy  studies  ore  long  term  studies  in  different  settings.  Of  those  only 
NIDA#1018 and US08 will be presented and discussed as supportive studies. 
©EMEA 2006 
20/42 
 
 
 
 
 
Design 
Study Posology 
Duratio
n 
Diagnosis 
Incl. criteria 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Study 
ID 
CR96
/013 
CR96
/014 
NID
A#10
18 
randomised, 
placebo-
controlled, 
double blind, 
parallel group 
open label, 
subjects from 
study 96/013 
and patients 
from 4 new 
centres  
open label with 
no 
randomisation 
Subjs by arm 
entred/ 
compl. 
109 
Bupr/nalox 
105 Bupr 
109 Placebo 
472 
sublingual 
buprenorphine/ 
naloxone 16/4mg 
or buprenorphine 
16mg  
or placebo 
flexible with 
buprenorphine/ 
naloxone doses of 
up to 24/6mg 
Suboxone 8/2mg 
up to 24/6mg 
582 
9-52 
weeks 
4 
weeks 
48-52 
weeks 
Opiate 
dependence 
seeking for 
substitution 
therapy 
Opiate 
dependence 
seeking for 
substitution 
therapy 
Opiate 
dependence 
seeking for 
substitution 
therapy 
Opiate 
dependence 
seeking for 
substitution 
therapy 
Opiate 
dependence 
dependence 
12-52 
weeks 
up to 
21 
weeks 
37 days  Opiate 
opiate 
craving 
illicit drug 
use 
illicit drug 
use 
illicit drug 
use 
illicit drug 
use 
illicit drug 
use 
illicit drug 
use 
11 
weeks 
Opiate 
dependence 
illicit drug 
use 
US08  multi center 
randomized 
open parallel 
group study 
Suboxone up to 
24/6mg 
CR95
/002 
Bupp
4729 
randomised 
double blind 
parallel group 
double blind 
triple cross over 
Suboxone up to 
16/4mg 
Suboxone up to 
16/4mg 
Bupp
5113 
double blind 
triple cross over 
Suboxone up to 
24/6mg 
93 
randomised 
28 
completed 
52 weeks 
25 
only seven 
completed 
47 
only 14 
completed 
46 enrolled 
only 13 
completed 
•  Dose response studies 
See Clinical Pharmacodynamics. 
•  Main studies  
CR96/013  (and  CR96/014):  Phase  III  Multicenter  Efficacy/Safety  Study  of  Suboxone  for  the 
Treatment of Opiate Dependence 
METHODS 
CR96/013  was  a  randomised,  placebo  controlled,  double  blind  study  intended  to  demonstrate  the 
safety and efficacy of four weeks treatment with Suboxone sublingual tablets.  
Matched  Buprenorphine  alone  (mono  buprenorphine)  tablets  were  included  as  an  active  control  and 
matched  placebo  tablets  as  a  non-active  control.    The  study  was  designed  to  compare  each  active 
buprenorphine treatment against placebo.   The 4-week study was the first part of a larger safety study 
that  offered  continued  open  label  treatment  of  Suboxone  for  up  to  a  total  of  52 weeks,  including 
at-home  use.    All  subjects  who  completed  the  efficacy  phase  (CR96/013)  were  offered  continued 
treatment  in  the  safety  phase,  and  additional  subjects  were  recruited  directly  into  the  safety  study 
(CR96/014). 
©EMEA 2006 
21/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study Participants  
All participants were opiate–dependent and had used heroin for a median duration of 84 months and 
about half of them had previously been treated with methadone or LAAM while the others were naive 
to treatment. 64.7% were men and 35.3% were women; mean age was 37.6 years. 
Treatments 
A total of 451 subjects were screened from which 326 were randomised to treatment: 110 subjects to 
Suboxone  16/4mg,  106 to  taste-matched  Buprenorphine  alone  16mg,  and  110 to  taste-matched 
placebo.  Three  subjects,  one  in  each  group  were  not  dosed.    Therefore  the  intent-to-treat  efficacy 
sample comprised 323 subjects, 109 receiving Suboxone, 105 receiving Buprenorphine alone, and 109 
receiving placebo tablets. 
It  was  decided  not  to use Suboxone for induction but to use the taste-matched Buprenorphine alone 
tablets, with the objective of achieving a rapid attainment of the target 16mg dose of buprenorphine, 
without  the  complication  of  withdrawal  symptoms,  which  might  have  occurred  during  induction. 
Placebo  group  patients  were  inducted  with  matching  placebo  tablets  and  remained  on  this  study 
medication throughout the 4-week trial. 
Objectives 
The  main  objective  of  the  sudy  was  to  demonstrate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  four  weeks  treatment 
with Suboxone sublingual tablets versus placebo in reducing opiates misuse.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
There were two primary efficacy parameters: the number of opiate negative urine samples provided by 
the subjects, and opiate craving score values.  It was hypothesized that buprenorphine treatment with 
Suboxone or Buprenorphine alone tablets would give rise to an increased number of opiate negative 
urine samples and would reduce opiate craving scores.  
Secondary outcomes: Subject’s global impression of his/her own status was reported using a 100-point 
scale where a score of 50 represented ‘no change’ and a score of 100 represented ‘much better’.   
Clinicians  provided  global  impressions  of  their  subjects’  status  from  the  perspective  of  the  entire 
4-week study period and relative to the previous clinic visit using a similar scale  
Sample size 
A target sample size of 128 subjects per treatment group was chosen based on power calculations for 
the  two  primary  efficacy  variables,  urine  tests  negative  for  opiates  and  opiate  craving  score,  taking 
into consideration a potential 33% attrition rate.  
In order to detect a difference of 10% in urine tests negative for opiates between the buprenorphine 
and placebo groups, with a Type I error of 0.05 an a power of 0.90, 84 subjects per treatment group 
would be required. 
A  sample  size  of  86  subjects  per  group  would  be  sufficient  to  detect  a  10-point  difference  between 
treatment groups in opiate craving with a Type  I error rate of 0.05 and a power of 0.80. 
Randomisation 
A total of 451 subjects were screened from which 326 were randomised to treatment: 110 subjects to 
Suboxone,  106 to  taste-matched  Buprenorphine  alone,  and  110 to  taste-matched  placebo.  Three 
subjects, one in each group were not dosed.  Therefore the intent-to-treat efficacy sample comprised 
323 subjects, 109 receiving Suboxone, 105 receiving Buprenorphine alone, and 109 receiving placebo 
tablets.   
Blinding (masking) 
Blinding  was  accomplished  by  using  identically  appearing  and  tasting  tablets  for  all  three  treatment 
groups.  Flavour  was  added  to  placebo  and  buprenorphine  tablets  to  match  the  flavour  of  the 
combination of buprenorphine/naloxone tablet. 
©EMEA 2006 
22/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Statistical methods 
In  the  protocol,  pairwise  normal  approximation  to  the  binomial  (Z-test)  was  the  proposed  statistical 
test for analyzing the percentage of urine samples negative for opiates. In fact, the distribution of the 
percentage  of  urine  samples  negative  for  opiates  was  analyzed  with  the  two-way  ANOVA  model 
containing the fixed effects of center and treatment and included a center by treatment interaction. The 
least squares means of the treatment groups were compared in pairs. The 95% confidence interval for 
the difference between combination therapy and monotherapy was calculated. The two-way ANOVA 
model was adjusted for center effect. Since the distribution of the percentage of clean urine samples 
was  severely  skewed,  the  data  were  also  analyzed  with  the  Wilcoxon  test  to  compare  each  pair  of 
treatment groups. 
All  statistical  tests  were  performed  as  two-sided  tests  at  the  5%  level  of  significance.  The  baseline 
characteristics and primary efficacy variables in the efficacy study were to be analyzed using “intend-
to-Treat  methodology.  For  some  of  the  efficacy  parameters,  some  subsets  of  this  sample  were  also 
planned, such as those subjects with complete data sets, however, these were not performed. 
RESULTS 
Recruitment 
A total of 451 subjects were screened from which 326 were randomised to treatment: 110 subjects to 
Suboxone,  106 to  taste-matched  Buprenorphine  alone,  and  110 to  taste-matched  placebo.  Three 
subjects, one in each group were not dosed.  Therefore the intent-to-treat efficacy sample comprised 
323 subjects, 109 receiving Suboxone, 105 receiving Buprenorphine alone, and 109 receiving placebo 
tablets.  All subjects enrolled in the efficacy study were opiate–dependent and had used heroin for a 
median duration of 84 months (range 3 to 468 months) at the time of entry into the study. About half 
of the subjects had previously been treated with methadone or LAAM while the others were naive to 
treatment. The majority of subjects were white men in their mid-thirties.  Of the 323 subjects in the 
efficacy study, 64.7% were men and 35.3% were women; mean age was 37.6 years.  There were no 
statistically significant differences in any baseline characteristic between treatment groups.  
Conduct of the study 
The  study  terminated  after  significant  statistical  effects  were  shown  between  treatment  and  placebo 
groups. For the 296 subjects who were not affected by the early closure of the study, retention in the 
study  was  high;  243 subjects  (82%)  completed  and  53  (18%)  discontinued.    Five  of  these  subjects 
discontinued  due  to  adverse  events.    Three  of  them  had  received  Suboxone;  their  adverse  events 
included  nausea,  vomiting,  and  withdrawal  symptoms  (1  subject);  withdrawal  symptoms  alone  (1 
subject);  and  irritability,  headache,  and  decreased  appetite  (1  subject).    The  remaining  two  subjects 
had received Buprenorphine alone and experienced nausea (1 subject) and sedation and dizziness (1 
subject).   
Baseline data 
The  study  was  conducted  in  the  target  population.  Baseline  data  were  comparable  fort  he  three 
treatment groups. 
Numbers analysed 
Of the 296 subjects who entered the dosing phase 243 completed the study.This is acceptable, as the 
retention in study was high. 85% combination therapy; 84% monotherapy, and 77% placebo. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Negative urine samples: Statistical analysis of the results showed that patients treated with Suboxone 
or  Buprenorphine  alone  tablets  had  a  significantly  higher  percentage  of  urine  samples  that  were 
negative  for  opiates  than  patients  treated  with  placebo  tablets.  There  was  a  statistically  significant 
effect of centre but the treatment-by-centre interaction was not significant.  There was no significant 
effect  of  age,  gender  or  ethnicity  on  the  percentage  of  clean  urine  samples,  and  there  was  no 
significant interaction between these variables and treatment. 
©EMEA 2006 
23/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Craving  score:  Upon  entry  into  the  efficacy  study,  opiate  craving  was  moderate  (mean  scores 
62.4 to 65.6)  and  reflect  no  apparent  differences  between  treatment  groups.    Over  the  4-week  study 
period there was a steady decline in mean craving scores following treatment with both Suboxone and 
Buprenorphine alone: at Week 4 the mean score in the Suboxone group was 29.8, and was 33.0 in the 
Buprenorphine alone group and both were significantly lower than the change in opiate craving in the 
placebo-treated  group,  that  had  a  mean  Week 4  craving  score  of 55.1.    Also,  at  each  week  after 
baseline, the craving scores in the Suboxone and Buprenorphine alone groups were significantly lower 
than  in  the  placebo group.  No significant interactions between treatment and centre, age, gender or 
ethnicity on craving scores were detected.  
Secondary outcomes: Subject’s global impression improved over the 4-week study period: the mean 
score for subjects treated with Suboxone increased from 64.1 to 75.7 and the mean score for subjects 
treated with Buprenorphine alone increased from 65.8 to 74.7.  At each week, subjects who received 
Suboxone or Buprenorphine alone had significantly higher scores than those who received placebo.  
At Week 4, mean clinician’s global impression scores were 69.2 and 66.5 for the Suboxone and 
Buprenorphine alone groups, respectively, compared to the placebo group mean score of 57.9.    The 
scores in the Suboxone and Buprenorphine alone groups were statistically significantly higher than the 
placebo score at each week.  
The chosen primary and secondary efficacy endpoints were acceptable and in accordance with those 
chosen for studies that lead to approval of Buprenorphine alone. 
Compared  with  placebo  treated  subjects,  those  treated  with  Suboxone  ore  Buprenorphine  alone  had 
statistical  significant  reduced  heroin  use,  as  judged  by  the  higher  percentages  of  urine  samples  that 
were negative for opiates.  Subjects also had a marked reduction in craving for heroin.  
There was no effect of age on the efficacy results and there were no meaningful differences between 
the genders or the different ethnic groups. 
The study also showed that Buprenorphine alone treatment was similarly effective, and there were no 
obvious  differences  between  Suboxone  and  Buprenorphine  alone:  16  mg  doses  of  both  products 
produced similar mean increases in the numbers of opioid negative urine samples, and reduced opioid 
craving  by  similar  amounts.  A  post-hoc  statistical  analysis  of  non-inferiority  of  Suboxone  and 
Buprenorphine alone was undertaken but the study was found to be underpowered to provide a firm 
©EMEA 2006 
24/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conclusion, but it was not the intention to show non-inferiority of Suboxone to Buprenorphine alone in 
the context of this study. Although statistical significance was not established, the results indicate that 
Suboxone is as effective as Buprenorphine alone in the treatment of opiate dependency.   
Ancillary analyses 
NA 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
NA 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
All relevant studies were conducted in the target population. Studies in children, in the elderly or in 
patients with renal or hepatic impairment were not conducted with Suboxone. 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
NIDA#1018  
Open study of Suboxone tablets to investigate ‘Best Practice’ for use in an office-based setting 
NIDA #1018 was an open study of Suboxone tablets to investigate ‘Best Practice’ for use in an office-
based setting.  The study was conducted in the USA. Physicians could each recruit up to ten opioid-
dependent subjects.  Treatment was for up to one year.  A total of 582 (386 males) were enrolled in the 
study.   
Suboxone  was  successfully  used  to  initiate  treatment.    On  the  first  day  of  treatment,  most  patients 
received 8 mg (190, 32.6%), 4 mg (126, 21.6%) or 16 mg (102, 17.5%) Suboxone.    
During the remainder of the study, the doses of Suboxone were adjusted to meet individual patient’s 
needs; the most frequent average daily doses were between 8 mg and 16 mg.  A total of 189 patients 
completed  the  study  protocol  representing  a  retention  rate  of  32%.  Overall  retention  rates  (27-35%) 
were  similar  across  all  the  treatment  settings.  Of  the189  patients,  162  (112  male  and  50  female) 
received at least 47 weeks of Suboxone treatment.   
Suboxone treatment was associated with reductions in the percentage of opiate-positive urine samples 
during the study.  Overall after 3, 6 and 12 months of treatment, 29.6%, 23.65% and 19.0% of urine 
samples were positive for opiates compared with 90.5% at the start of treatment.  Similar results were 
found  for  self-reporting  of  opiate  use  by  patients.    Non-opiate  drug  use  was  also  reduced  during 
treatment.    Improvements  were  also noted in the Clinical Global Impression Scores recorded during 
treatment.    Overall  there  was  a  good  level  of  agreement  between  patients’  and  physicians’ 
assessments, with most patients being scored as ‘much improved’.  Risk Assessment Battery (RAB) 
results showed marked and statistically significant reductions in ‘Drug Risk’ and ‘RAB Scaled’ scores 
following  treatment.    Addiction  Severity  Index  results  showed  highly  statistically  significant 
reductions in severity of ‘Drug-related Impairment’ and ‘Legal Status’ scores and a smaller reduction 
in ‘Family/Social (Interpersonal Functioning)’ scores. 
Overall  there  were  112,851  patient  days  of  Suboxone  dosing.    The  overall  average  daily  dose  of 
Suboxone was 15.8 mg, although there was significant use of higher and lower doses.  
This  study  confirms  the  results  of  the  randomised  study  CR96/013.  Subjects  who  remained  in  the 
study exert reduced misuse of opiates. The low retention rate is typical for this patient group.  
US08  Study (Randomized comparison of the use of Suboxone for opioid dependence in three office 
based settings in the USA) A 52-week study compared the use of Suboxone for opioid dependence in 
three  office-based  settings  in  the  USA  (US08).    The  study  aims  were:  to  document  physicians’ 
preferred  prescribing  practices,  including  induction,  dose  adjustment,  maintenance,  and  take-home 
dosing;  to  document  the  ease  or  difficulty  they  encounter  in  delivering  Suboxone  in  the  three 
treatment settings; and to document the acceptance, compliance, response and necessary adjustments 
from  the  patients’  perspective.    The  three  treatment  settings  were:  an  office-based  psychosocial 
treatment setting, using the Matrix Recovery / Relapse Prevention Model, within which buprenorphine 
treatment was introduced by making available the service of a physician; a private physician’s office 
within which buprenorphine is prescribed and supplemented with relapse prevention delivered by an 
appropriately  trained  medical  assistant;  and  a  research  clinic  housed  in  a  traditional  opiate 
©EMEA 2006 
25/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maintenance  treatment  (methadone)  clinic  but  with  personnel  experienced  in  the  clinical  use  of 
buprenorphine.  
A total of 128 patients were screened for participation in the study.  Of these, 16 failed the screening 
process, two others who passed the screening process failed to show for randomization.  The efficacy 
evaluable  (EE)  population  comprised  93  patients  and  the  intent  to  treat  (ITT)  population  comprised 
103  patients  (EE  population  +  10  partners).    The  safety  population  comprised  104  patients  (ITT 
population + a subject treated at two settings).  
On  the  first  day  of  treatment,  patients  saw  the  physician  and  received  a  2,  4  or  8mg  first  dose  of 
Suboxone taken sublingually at the clinic.  Most (97) of the 103 patients were given 4mg Suboxone as 
their first dose of Suboxone. Of the other 6 patients, 4 received 2mg and 2 received 8mg Suboxone as 
their first dose. On the first day, patients could receive an additional Suboxone dose up to 8mg at the 
treating  physician’s  discretion.    Most  patients  were  recorded  as  having  taken  8mg  Suboxone  (50 
patients) or were prescribed 8mg Suboxone (35 patients) as their total dose on Day 1. Twelve patients 
received just 4mg total dose of Suboxone on Day 1.  The other patients received a higher total dose of 
Suboxone  on  Day  1.    Patients  were  prescribed  or  dispensed  enough  medication  to  continue  dosing 
until the next office visit.  Patients made contact with the study physician on the following day and 
were seen by the physician at least one more time during the first study week for follow-up evaluation 
to  include  drug  use,  signs  and  symptoms  of  opiate  withdrawal  or  over-medication,  and  any  adverse 
effects.    At  that  time,  dosage  could  be  adjusted  by  8  mg/day  increments,  to  a  maximum  of  24  mg 
buprenorphine.   
During weeks 2-6 patients saw the study physician once weekly for evaluation of treatment progress, 
medication effects and side effects.  A urine sample was obtained at each visit to screen for drugs of 
abuse.    Additional  visits  were  to  be  scheduled  as  medically  indicated.    After  Week  6  the  study 
physician  reviewed  and  discussed  treatment  progress  and  options  with  the  subject  to  determine 
whether  to  begin  detoxification,  continue  further  maintenance,  or  explore  other  treatment  options.  
Buprenorphine treatment could continue for up to 52 weeks.   
Urinary opiate results are not available from the study. 
Retention of patients in treatment is an important indicator of treatment efficacy.  Of the 104 patients, 
28 completed the study, 26 of who completed at least 47 weeks of Suboxone treatment.    Of the 76 
patients  who  discontinued  early,  47  failed  to  return  to  the  clinic  at  some  point  in  the  study,  and  14 
patients  requested  early  termination  from  the  study.    Three  patients  discontinued  due  to  unwanted 
effects of the medication. 
This study report provides limited efficacy information since urinary opiate results are not available. 
Studies CR95/002, Bupp4729, and Bupp5113 were pilot studies. Only a few subjects completed the 
studies. No additional results were obtained to demonstrate efficacy. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Study  CR96/013  demonstrates  statistical  significant  superiority  of  Suboxone  compared  to  placebo 
regarding all primary and secondary efficacy endpoints. The results also indicate that Suboxone is as 
effective as Buprenorphine alone in the treatment of opiate dependency.  
This conclusion is endorsed by the results of the open Suboxone studies CR96/014, NIDA#018 and 
US08 including more than 1000 patients. 
Successful detoxification can be obtained with Suboxone titrated downward to 2mg before termination 
of the therapy. However, in some patients it is necessary to titrate downward from 2mg in small steps 
of 0.4mg before termination of the therapy.  
The CHMP was concerned, as for these patients a titration would be possible only with Buprenorphine 
alone.  As  Suboxone  is  indicated  for  substitution  treatment  for  opioid  dependence,  be  it  acute 
detoxification or maintenance treatment, is clinically justified to have 0.4mg/0.1mg Suboxone tablets.  
The Applicant argued that the efficacy and safety of Suboxone and Buprenorphine alone when used as 
directed  are  comparable.  Therefore,  it  should  be  acceptable  to  patients  to  use  the  0.4  mg 
Buprenorphine  alone  tablet  for  those  exceptional  circumstances  when  doses  below  2  mg 
buprenorphine are required and, since detoxification of patients who are continuing to inject opioids is 
©EMEA 2006 
26/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not likely to be considered an appropriate course of treatment, the lack of a combination tablet in this 
dose range should not present a significant clinical issue. 
Where it is not desirable to switch detoxification therapy from Suboxone to Buprenorphine alone (or 
any other buprenorphine that might be available for the treatment of opioid addiction in the future), 
the CHMP agreed with the applicant’s position that the lack of a combination tablet in this dose range 
should not present a significant clinical issue. Therefore a follow up measure is adequate.  
In conclusion detoxification with a switch from Suboxone to Buprenorphine alone will be monitored, 
as a part of the risk management plan. 
Clinical safety 
Suboxone is proposed for the treatment of opiate dependence.  Buprenorphine alone (buprenorphine) 
is  a  well-established  substitution  treatment  for  opiate  dependency  as  an  alternative  to  methadone 
treatment. Buprenorphine has equal efficacy to other substitution treatments but has the added benefit 
of being safer in overdose as there is a ceiling effect on respiratory depression. Buprenorphine alone 
(buprenorphine  alone)  has  been  licensed  in  France  since  1996.  It  became  clear  however  that  the 
diversion  of  Buprenorphine  alone  to  the  black-market  and  inappropriate  use  was  occurring.    There 
were  deaths,  due  to  respiratory  depression  and  cardiovascular  collapse  in  addicts  who  misused 
buprenorphine,  especially  with  the  concomitant  use  of  benzodiazepines.    The  concept  of  combining 
buprenorphine and naloxone in a single tablet stemmed from the goal of deterring intravenous misuse 
of buprenorphine by opiate addicts.  
•  Patient exposure 
The total exposure to Suboxone is 1631 patients.  The total long-term exposure is 1158 patients. In 
CR96/013 and CR96/014 the 16mg and the 20mg/day doses were the most frequently administered. 
The 16 mg dose had the highest exposure 
Study 
Product 
CR95/002 
CR96/013+CR96/014 
US08 
NIDA #1018 
0600201 
Bupp 4729 
Bupp 5113 
Bupp 6683 
Australian Study 
RC050175 
Finnish Study 
10.CTN-001 and CTN 
002 
Suboxone 
Suboxone 4mg-24mg 
Suboxone 4mg-24mg 
Suboxone 4mg-24mg 
Suboxone 4mg 
Suboxone 8mg 
Suboxone 8mg  
Suboxone 2mg-32mg 
Suboxone 2mg-32mg 
64 
Suboxone 1mg – 8mg 
234 
N. 
subjects 
25 
472 
104 
582 
40 
47 
46 
17 
Men 
16 
327 
66 
386 
31 
33 
30 
11 
52 
161 
Wome
n 
9 
145 
38 
196 
9 
14 
16 
6 
12 
73 
Duration 
6-20 wks 
52 weeks 
52 weeks 
52 weeks 
12 weeks 
11 weeks 
11 weeks 
26 weeks 
Up to 75 
weeks 
2 weeks 
©EMEA 2006 
27/42 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Demographic characteristics of Patients in the long term Suboxone studies 
Race 
White 
Black 
Hispanic 
Other Hispanic 
Asian/Pacific Islander 
Native American 
Asian 
Other 
Total 
Age range  Women Age range Men 
502 
126 
113 
19 
8 
4 
5 
2 
778 
(15-61) 
(18-65) 
(21-66) 
(33-65) 
(21-56) 
(24-60) 
(19-39) 
(24-42) 
(15-66) 
(15-61) 
(18-60) 
(21-52) 
(33-45) 
(23-41) 
(24-47) 
(19-36) 
24 
(15-61) 
Total 
754 
202 
138 
29 
12 
11 
9 
3 
1158 
252 
76 
25 
10 
4 
7 
4 
1 
379 
Age range  % Male
(16-61) 
(22-65) 
(21-66) 
(34-65) 
(21-56) 
(36-60) 
(28-39) 
(24-42) 
(16-66) 
66.6 
62.4 
81.9 
65.5 
66.7 
36.4 
55.6 
66.7 
67.3 
Suboxone Doses used in Clinical Trials 
When the number of dose levels to which each subject was exposed was counted, including induction 
and  titration  doses,  the  16 mg/day  and  the  20 mg/day  doses  of  Suboxone  were  the  most  frequently 
administered.    The  minimum  and  maximum  Suboxone  doses  used  for  maintenance  treatment  were 
4 mg/day and 24 mg/day, respectively.  A 2 mg/day dose was used during dose-reduction at the end of 
the study.  
Individual subjects attained a stable dose level of buprenorphine/naloxone and tended not to deviate 
from this dose during the study. 
Overall,  there  was  a  total  of  92,930  person-days  exposure  (average  of  197 person-days  per  subject) 
among  the  472 subjects  in  the  safety  study.    The  16  mg  Suboxone  dose  had  the  highest  exposure 
(32,448 person-days), with an average of 82 person-days per subject  
•  Adverse events  
A profile of adverse events relating to clinical use of Suboxone is obtained from the 52-week pivotal 
efficacy/safety study (CR96/013 + CR96/014) and from the 52-week Suboxone Safety/Best Practice 
study (NIDA #1018).  Comparison of Suboxone, Buprenorphine alone and placebo is made from the 
4-week efficacy study (CR96/013). 
Common Adverse Events 
Adverse  Events  Following  Treatment  with  Suboxone,  Buprenorphine  alone  and  Placebo  in  Study 
CR96/013 
Overall Adverse Events 
Buprenorphine, whether administered alone or in combination with naloxone, was well tolerated. The 
most frequently reported events during the efficacy study (reported by at least 10% of subjects) were 
headache, withdrawal syndrome, pain, insomnia, nausea, and sweating.  Of the more common events, 
headache, abdominal pain, and constipation were reported somewhat more frequently by the subjects 
in  the  buprenorphine  groups  compared  to  the  placebo  group.    Placebo  subjects  reported  a  higher 
incidence  of  back  pain,  withdrawal  syndrome,  diarrhoea,  and  rhinitis  than  buprenorphine-treated 
subjects.   
When  adverse  events  most  frequently  reported  by  subjects  treated  with  either  buprenorphine 
formulation were examined, the frequency of adverse events was similar between the treatment groups 
in the vast majority of cases.  Amongst events that were reported by fewer than 5% of the subjects, 
somnolence  was  somewhat  more  common  amongst  buprenorphine-treated  subjects;  no  other  trends 
were observed. 
©EMEA 2006 
28/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
CR96/013: Adverse Events Reported by at Least 5% of Subjects Overall by Body System and Treatment Group 
Adverse Event 
(COSTART Coded Term) 
Suboxone 
(N = 107) 
Placebo 
(N = 107) 
All  
(N = 317) 
Buprenorphine 
alone 
(N = 103) 
Body As A Whole 
Asthenia 
Chills 
Headache 
Infection 
Pain 
Pain Abdomen 
Pain Back 
Withdrawal syndrome 
7 (6.5%) 
8 (7.5%) 
39 (36.4%) 
6 (5.6%) 
24 (22.4%) 
12 (11.2%) 
4 (3.7%) 
27 (25.2%) 
5 (4.9%) 
8 (7.8%) 
30 (29.1%) 
12 (11.7%) 
19 (18.4%) 
12 (11.7%) 
8 (7.8%) 
19 (18.4%) 
7 (6.5%) 
8 (7.5%) 
24 (22.4%) 
7 (6.5%) 
20 (18.7%) 
7 (6.5%) 
12 (11.2%) 
40 (37.4%) 
19 (6.0%) 
24 (7.6%) 
93 (29.3%) 
25 (7.9%) 
63 (19.9%) 
31 (9.8%) 
24 (7.6%) 
86 (27.1%) 
Cardiovascular System 
Vasodilatation 
10 (9.3%) 
4 (3.9%) 
7 (6.5%) 
21 (6.6%) 
Digestive System 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Nervous System 
Insomnia 
Respiratory System 
Rhinitis 
Skin And Appendages 
13 (12.1%) 
4 (3.7%) 
16 (15.0%) 
8 (7.5%) 
8 (7.8%) 
5 (4.9%) 
14 (13.6%) 
8 (7.8%) 
3 (2.8%) 
16 (15.0%) 
12 (11.2%) 
5 (4.7%) 
24 (7.6%) 
25 (7.9%) 
42 (13.2%) 
21 (6.6%) 
15 (14.0%) 
22 (21.4%) 
17 (15.9%) 
54 (17.0%) 
5 (4.7%) 
10 (9.7%) 
14 (13.1%) 
29 (9.1%) 
Sweating 
39 (12.3%) 
Source data: Table 40 of CR96/013 + CR96/014 study report. Report located in Module 5, Section 5.3.5.1.1 
13 (12.6%) 
11 (10.3%) 
15 (14.0%) 
Treatment Relationship and Severity 
The most common adverse events that were judged by the investigators to have been at least possibly 
related to either of the buprenorphine treatments were headache (26.2% of Suboxone subjects, 18.4% 
of Buprenorphine alone subjects), insomnia (10.3%, 17.5%), nausea (13.1%, 9.7%), sweating (11.2%, 
9.7%),  and  constipation  (11.2%,  6.8%).    The  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  comparable  when 
buprenorphine was administered as monotherapy as compared to administration in combination with 
naloxone.   
The majority of adverse events reported were either mild or moderate in severity.  Headache, pain, and 
withdrawal syndrome were the most frequent events reported as being severe in intensity.   
CR96/013: Adverse Events Classified as Severe in Intensity  
Adverse Event 
(COSTART Coded Term) 
Suboxone 
(N=107) 
Buprenorphine 
alone 
(N=103) 
Placebo 
(N=107) 
All  
(N=317) 
Body As A Whole 
Asthenia 
Fever 
Headache 
Accidental Injury  
Pain 
Pain, Abdomen 
Pain, Back 
Withdrawal Syndrome 
Cardiovascular System 
Syncope 
Digestive System 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
5 (4.7%) 
0 
2 (1.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
0 
2 (1.9%) 
0 
2 (1.9%) 
0 
1 (1.0%) 
1 (1.0%) 
0 
0 
2 (1.9%) 
2 (1.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
2 (1.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
3 (2.8%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
9 (2.8%) 
2 (0.6%) 
5 (1.6%) 
3 (0.9%) 
2 (0.6%) 
5 (1.6%) 
0 
0 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.3%) 
Constipation 
Gastrointestinal Disorder 
Nausea 
Nausea/Vomiting 
Stomatitis 
2 (1.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
0 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
0 
1 (1.0%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
2 (0.6%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
©EMEA 2006 
29/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Event 
(COSTART Coded Term) 
Suboxone 
(N=107) 
Tooth Disorder 
Musculoskeletal System 
Myalgia 
Nervous System 
Convulsions 
Depression 
Drug Dependence 
Emotional Lability 
Insomnia 
Paresthesia 
Respiratory System 
Rhinitis 
Special Senses 
Conjunctivitis 
Urogenital System 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
0 
Buprenorphine 
alone 
(N=103) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Placebo 
(N=107) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
2 (1.9%) 
0 
All  
(N=317) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
2 (0.6%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (1.0%) 
0 
1 (0.3%) 
Dysmenorrhea 
Urinary Tract Disorder 
2 (0.6%) 
1 (0.3%) 
Source data: Table 42 of CR96/013 + CR96/014 study report. Report located in Module 5, Section 5.3.5.1.1 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
0 
0 
0 
In  study  CR96/013,  the  more  commonly  reported  adverse  events  (reported  by  5%  or  more  of  the 
subjects overall) were reviewed for possible difference by gender, ethnicity, duration of heroin abuse, 
and baseline liver function. 
Adverse Events Reported During Long-term Treatment with Suboxone 
Adverse  events  following  two  52-week  studies  of  Suboxone  have  been  reported  from  studies: 
CR96/013 /014 and NIDA #1018.   
Adverse Effects 
Of 472 subjects in Study CR96/014, 446 (94.5%) experienced a treatment-emergent adverse event at 
some  time  while  on-treatment.    Most  of  these  reported  events  appear  to  be  either  events  that  are 
common in the general population, or would be expected in a population of illicit drug users.  Among 
all  subjects  receiving  the  buprenorphine/naloxone  tablet,  the  most  frequently  reported  events  were 
headache, pain, withdrawal syndrome, infection, insomnia, back pain, and constipation, each reported 
by more than 20% of subjects.  Additionally, flu syndrome, abdominal pain, nausea, rhinitis, sweating, 
accidental  injury,  depression,  anxiety,  pharyngitis,  vomiting,  diarrhoea,  and  asthenia  were  each 
reported by more than 10% of subjects.   
The incidence of adverse events appeared to increase with dose level; 89 of the 131 subjects (67.9%) 
taking the lowest dose (4mg Suboxone) reported adverse events whereas 46 of the 48 subjects (95.8%) 
taking the highest dose (24mg Suboxone) reported adverse events.  At the most commonly prescribed 
dose  level  (16mg  Suboxone),  339  of  the  394 subjects  (86.0%)  reported  adverse  events.    There  were 
some events that appeared to occur with higher incidence as the dose increased.  However, since the 
design of the study was titration with low doses and progressively increasing doses, there was also an 
increase in duration of exposure as the dose increased.   
Adverse events reported by at least 5% of subjects in study CR96/013 + CR96/014 are summarized by 
body system in the Table below.  
©EMEA 2006 
30/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CR96/013+CR96/014: Adverse Events Reported by at Least 5% of Subjects 
Adverse Event 
(COSTART Coded Term) 
Body as a Whole 
Asthenia 
Chills 
Fever 
Flu Syndrome 
Headache 
Infection 
Accidental Injury 
Pain 
Pain Abdomen 
Pain, Back 
Withdrawal Syndrome 
Cardiovascular System 
Vasodilatation 
Digestive System 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
Nausea 
Tooth Disorder 
Vomiting 
Metabolic and Nutritional 
Peripheral Oedema 
Musculoskeletal System 
Myalgia 
Nervous System 
Anxiety 
Depression 
Dizziness 
Insomnia 
Nervousness 
Paresthesia 
Somnolence 
Respiratory System 
Cough Increased 
Pharyngitis 
Rhinitis 
Skin and Appendages 
Sweating 
All Subjects 
(N = 472) 
48 (10.2%) 
44 (9.3%) 
36 (7.6%) 
89 (18.9%) 
202 (42.8%) 
149 (31.6%) 
72 (15.3%) 
197 (41.7%) 
77 (16.3%) 
132 (28.0%) 
194 (41.1%) 
29 (6.1%) 
115 (24.4%) 
50 (10.6%) 
45 (9.5%) 
76 (16.1%) 
37 (7.8%) 
61 (12.9%) 
24 (5.1%) 
31 (6.6%) 
65 (13.8%) 
70 (14.8%) 
33 (7.0%) 
138 (29.2%) 
42 (8.9%) 
28 (5.9%) 
40 (8.5%) 
36 (7.6%) 
64 (13.6%) 
75 (15.9%) 
74 (15.7%) 
Source data: Table 66 of CR96/013 + CR96/014 study report. Report located in Module 5, Section 5.3.5.1.1 
A subset of 261 subjects in the safety study were exposed to Suboxone for at least 6 months.  There 
were no clear differences in the frequency of adverse events in this sample compared with the overall 
safety  sample;  frequently  reported  adverse  events  (reported  by  at  least  20%  of  the  subjects)  had  a 
somewhat  higher  incidence  in  subjects  exposed  for  at  least  6  months  and  included  pain,  headache, 
infection,  withdrawal  symptoms,  back  pain,  insomnia,  constipation,  flu  syndrome,  depression, 
accidental  injury,  rhinitis,  and  pharyngitis.    Anxiety,  abdominal  pain,  nausea,  vomiting,  asthenia, 
sweating,  diarrhoea,  dyspepsia,  tooth  disorder,  chills,  fever,  and  paraesthesia  were  each  reported  by 
10% or more of the subjects.  In terms of evaluation by dose, the observations for subjects exposed to 
Suboxone  for  6  months  or  more  are  similar  to  those  observed  for  all  subjects,  where  the  apparent 
increase with dose level may equally relate to the increased duration of exposure. 
©EMEA 2006 
31/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment Relationship and Severity 
The most frequently reported adverse events that were judged by the investigator to have been at least 
possibly related to the study drug (Suboxone) were headache (30.3% of subjects), constipation (21.6% 
of  subjects),  insomnia  (20.3%  of  subjects),  withdrawal  syndrome  (15.7%  of  subjects),  sweating 
(12.1% of subjects), and nausea (11.2% of subjects) Most of the adverse events reported in the study 
were mild or moderate in severity.  For the treatment-related adverse events most frequently reported 
by  all  subjects,  pain  and  back  pain  were  the  most  frequently  reported  as  being  severe  in  3.6%  and 
3.2% of subjects, respectively.  Severe withdrawal syndrome was reported by 2.3% of subjects.  For 
subjects exposed for at least 6 months, the same general trends were apparent; severe pain and severe 
back  pain  were  reported  for  5.4%  and  5.0%  of  subjects,  respectively.    When  looking  at  the  dose 
distribution of severe adverse events, they tended to occur with the most frequently prescribed doses, 
16mg and 20mg Suboxone per day.   
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In  total,  367  non-fatal  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  during  clinical  trials  of 
buprenorphine in the treatment of opioid dependence: 175 in subjects treated with Suboxone, 28 with 
Buprenorphine alone, 115 with buprenorphine solution, 25 with methadone, 12 with placebo, 7 with 
clonidine, 4 in undosed subjects and 1 not stated. 
Body system 
Cases 
 All Trials: Serious Adverse Event Counts by Body System 
Application Site  
Benign and Malignant Neoplasms  
Body as a Whole  
Cardiovascular  
Central and Peripheral NS  
Gastrointestinal  
Immune System  
Infection and infestation  
Injury and Poisoning  
Liver and Biliary  
Metabolic and Nutritional  
Musculo-Skeletal  
Psychiatric  
Renal and Urinary  
Reproductive  
Respiratory  
Skin and Subcutaneous  
TOTAL 
3 
3 
11 
18 
11 
19 
4 
41 
31 
52 
2 
11 
129 
5 
3 
17 
7 
367 
The serious adverse event preferred term most commonly reported was Elevated Liver Function Tests 
(47  cases  in  the  Liver  and  Biliary  Body  System);  The  next  most  commonly  reported  events  were: 
depression  (34),  overdose  (25),  detoxification  request  leading  to  hospitalisation  (23),  abscess  (17), 
chest pain (14), pneumonia (13), automobile accident (13), infection (9), suicide attempt (9), asthma 
(8),  seizure  (8),  cellulitis  (7),  suicide  ideation  (7),  anxiety  (6),  surgery  (6),  obstructive  pulmonary 
disease (5), and fracture (4).  The cases of overdose, depression, suicide attempt, and suicide ideation 
show  the  instability  of  the  addict  patient  population  and  point  to  the  need  to  regularly  monitor 
progress during treatment.   
Of  the  other  less  frequently  reported  serious  adverse  events  reported  in  clinical  trials,  two  cases  of 
allergic  reaction  occurred  just  hours  following  the  sublingual  administration  of  the  first  dose  of 
Buprenorphine  alone.    In  one  case  the  reaction  was  severe  and  life  threatening  while  the  other  case 
was  of  moderate  severity.    Two  cases  of  myocardial  infarction  occurred,  both  in  46-year-old  male 
subjects being treated with Suboxone.  One had a history of pulmonary disease, secondary to smoking 
and grain dust inhalation at work; this event was judged unrelated to study drug.  The other subject 
had a history of smoking and hypertension; the Principal Investigator judged this event to be possibly 
©EMEA 2006 
32/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
related to the study drug.  Both cases were mild in severity.  Other serious adverse events were those 
that would be expected in this patient group or the general population over the study periods. 
Serious Adverse Events in Subjects Receiving Suboxone in Clinical Trials of Opioid Dependence 
A  total  of  175  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  in  patients  receiving  Suboxone  in  five  clinical 
trials.  
Apart from detoxification requests that led to hospitalisation (34 subjects), the most common serious 
adverse  events  reported  for  Suboxone  treated  subjects  were  depression  (14),  elevations  in  liver 
function  tests  (protocol  reports,  11),  overdose  (11),  pneumonia  (9),  abscess  (8),  and  chest  pain  (7 
subjects).   
Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation from Treatment in Clinical Trials 
Adverse Event Preferred Term 
Suboxone 
Withdrawal syndrome  
Nausea 
Nausea and vomiting  
Abdominal Pain  
Dizziness  
Vomiting  
Anxiety  
Headache  
Hypertension  
Suicide attempt  
Accidental injury  
Alcoholism  
Allergic reaction  
Depression  
Hepatitis  
Rash  
Abscess  
Agitation  
AIDS  
Anorexia  
Arthralgia  
Asthenia  
Back pain  
Chest pain  
Confusion  
Constipation 
Cramps, leg  
Edema, peripheral  
Edema, peripheral and rash  
Fatigue 
Hair loss  
Herniated disc  
Hostility  
Libido decreased  
Malaise  
Nervousness  
Obstructive pulmonary disease  
Overdose  
Pain 
Paresthesia  
Peri-oral eczema 
Pneumonia  
Strangulated intestine  
Suicide ideation  
Sweating increased 
13 
9 
2 
1 
2 
3 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
Buprenorphi
ne alone 
4 
2 
1 
4 
2 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
Bup Sol  Methadone 
Total 
5 
1 
3 
2 
3 
1 
3 
1 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
22 
12 
8 
7 
7 
5 
4 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
©EMEA 2006 
33/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Event Preferred Term 
Suboxone 
Weight loss  
 TOTAL 
1 
42 
Buprenorphi
ne alone 
Bup Sol  Methadone 
Total 
22 
42 
10 
1 
116 
Analysis of Adverse Events by Organ System or Syndrome 
The  serious  adverse  event  preferred  term  most  commonly  reported  was  elevated  liver  function  tests 
(47 cases in the Liver and Biliary Body System). A few serious cases of acute hepatic injury have been 
reported in subjects misusing buprenorphine by the intravenous route, and increases in liver enzymes 
have been reported in other patients receiving buprenorphine.  This prompted a retrospective analysis 
of  hepatic  cases  from  clinical  trials  and  from  the  marketing  of  Buprenorphine  alone  (Report 
RC020117). This analysis was undertaken on data from 1615 patients who took part in five clinical 
trials  where  there  was  a  baseline  measurement  of  hepatic  parameters  plus  regular  on-treatment 
measurements. Of these, 252 patients (15.6%) had liver function parameter levels greater than or equal 
to  three  times  the  higher  limit  of  normal  at  some  point  during  the  studies.  Generally,  continued 
treatment  with  buprenorphine  was  not  associated  with  a  worsening  of  the  condition  and  often  was 
associated with a reduction or normalization of hepatic function parameters.  
A large number of the serious adverse events related to the ‘Psychiatric’ body system: depression (34), 
overdose  (25),  detoxification  request  leading  to  hospitalisation  (23),  suicide  attempt  (9),  suicide 
ideation (7), anxiety (6).  
Another large group of adverse events, often resulting in discontinuation from treatment, relate to the 
‘Gastrointestinal’ System and include nausea, nausea with vomiting and vomiting. 
Withdrawal  symptoms  are  the  other  main  group  of  adverse  events  seen  in  clinical  trials  of 
buprenorphine, and are common to addicts undergoing transition from street opiate to pharmacological 
treatment. 
Deaths in Clinical Studies 
There have been 13 deaths that occurred in clinical trials of buprenorphine for the treatment of opioid 
dependence. Deaths Occurring in Buprenorphine Clinical Trials of Opioid Dependence, by Body 
System 
©EMEA 2006 
34/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Study 
Treatment 
Dose 
CTN-001 
Suboxone 
NIDA #1018 Suboxone 
NIDA #1018 Suboxone 
OASIS 
Suboxone 
NEPOD #10 Buprenorphine 
alone 
CR88/130  Buprenorphine 
solution 
2-16 mg schedule 
over 13 days 
24 mg 
6 mg 
20 mg 
32 mg on 
alternate days 
8 mg 
Preferred 
term 
Study 
day - 
onset 
~122  Vomiting and 
dehydration 
Infection 
~110 
~383  Overdose 
Infection 
191 
Suicide 
Adverse event leading to death 
Verbatim term 
Relationship  Action 
indicated 
Acetaminophen  poisoning., 
respiratory failure and MI 
Necrotizing fascitis IV heroin 
Temazepam Overdose 
Infection 
Carbon monoxide poisoning 
Unrelated 
Hospitalization 
Unrelated 
Unknown 
Possible 
Unrelated 
Hospitalization 
None 
Hospitalization 
None 
Study 
day -
death
~123 
~122 
~383 
? 
37 
Overdose 
Drug Overdose 
Unrelated 
None 
37 
CR92/100  Buprenorphine 
8 mg 
147  Coronary 
Coronary thrombosis  
Unrelated 
Hospitalization 
147 
solution 
CR92/100  Buprenorphine 
32 mg 
thrombosis  
Infection 
265 
Dehydration and sepsis 
Unrelated 
Hospitalization 
265 
CTN-001 
solution 
Clonidine 
CR88/130  Methadone 
~0.4 mg per day 
by patch for 3 
days 
20 mg 
Bupp 3773  Methadone 
CR96/005  Methadone 
30 mg 
35 mg 
Bupp 3773  Not known 
~127  Endocarditis  Endocarditis secondary to 
Unrelated 
Hospitalization 
~127 
staphylococcus aureus infection 
7 
18 
Multiple injuries 
Accidental 
injury 
Stab wound  Multiple stab wounds 
Unrelated 
Slipped and fell from a window  Unrelated 
None 
None 
Unrelated 
None 
~548  Accidental 
injury 
Cancer 
Post 
study 
Unknown 
Hospitalization 
7 
18 
~548 
Post 
study 
•  Laboratory findings 
No  remarkable  laboratory  findings.  The  hepatic  vulnerability  will  be  discussed  in  the  following 
section. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Patients with Hepatic Vulnerability 
A retrospective evaluation of the potential for buprenorphine-induced hepatotoxicity was undertaken 
in  2002;  this  also  examined  the  role  of  viral  hepatitis  in  increasing  vulnerability  to  hepatotoxicity 
(Report  RC020117).    With  regard  to  in  vitro  and  preclinical  work,  this  showed  that  very  high 
concentrations of buprenorphine are toxic to hepatic mitochondria.  However, the concentrations used 
in these experiments far exceed tissue concentrations likely from therapeutic use of buprenorphine.  In 
clinical  trials,  elevations  in  hepatic  enzymes  were  observed  in  12.3%  of  patients  being  treated.    An 
elevation  of  liver  enzyme  levels  was  not  unique  to  buprenorphine  since  similar  rises  were  also 
observed  following  treatment  with  methadone  and  LAAM.    Generally,  continued  treatment  with 
buprenorphine was not associated with a worsening of the condition and often was associated with a 
reduction  or  normalization  of  hepatic  function  parameters.  In  81.7%  of  hepatic  cases  treatment  was 
associated  with  rises  in  liver  enzymes.    However,  in  8.0%  of  cases  there  was  a  reduction  of  liver 
enzymes,  and  in  the  other  10.3%  of  cases  there  was  no  obvious  change  in  already  elevated  hepatic 
parameters.   
The  more  confounding  /  contributory  factors  a  patient  has,  the  more  likely  he  or  she  is  to  have  an 
exaggerated hepatic enzymes response to treatment with buprenorphine.  Thus, patients with existing 
HCV and / or who are taking anti-AIDS drugs are more vulnerable when treated with buprenorphine 
(or  methadone  and  LAAM).    In  a  few  cases,  introduction  of  buprenorphine  to  patients  with  no 
previous  history  of  hepatitis  was  associated  with  a  large  elevation  of  liver  enzyme  levels,  and 
withdrawal  of  the  drug  was  associated  with  an  improvement.    However,  since  most  addict  subjects 
have other confounding factors, not least chaotic life-style of intravenous misuse of drugs, and their 
pre-treatment  hepatitis  status  is  usually  not  laboratory  based,  it  could  not  be  concluded  that 
buprenorphine, per se, causes hepatitis, but it still remained a possibility.  
It can be concluded that patients with existing hepatitis and/or HCV infection are probably more likely 
to have greater increases in hepatic enzymes during treatment with buprenorphine (or methadone and 
LAAM) than others without these complications.   
©EMEA 2006 
35/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Differences  in  baseline  liver  functions  (232  subjects  in  study  CR96/013  had  normal  baseline  liver 
function  and  85  had  abnormal  baseline  liver  function)  did  not  appear  to  be  associated  with  any 
consistent trend in the incidence of adverse events. 
Use of Suboxone in Pregnancy 
Currently  clinical  information  on  the  use  of  Suboxone  tablets  in  pregnancy  is  from  four  women 
receiving  the  product  who  became  pregnant  during  study  CR96/013+CR96/014.  Three  of  the 
pregnancies  were  aborted,  one  spontaneous  and  the  other  two  elective;  the  other  pregnancy  went  to 
term.    The  latter  case  was  a  29-year-old  woman  with  no  noteworthy  active  medical  problems  aside 
from drug abuse; she was using a barrier contraceptive as her only form of birth control.  She had a 
negative pregnancy test recorded at Week 12 and the next recorded test at Week 20 was positive, then 
reporting not using any form of birth control.  She was terminated from the study at that time.  The 
subject  delivered  a  ‘drug  addicted’  baby  girl  who  had  respiratory  difficulties,  and  weighed  slightly 
over 4 pounds.  The baby recovered from the drug addiction and respiratory difficulties, and no birth 
defects  or  permanent  abnormalities  were  noted.  The  baby  was  reported  as  doing  well  and  gaining 
weight. Later she was placed in foster care.   
Use of Buprenorphine alone in pregnant women 
It  is  clear  from  post  marketing  adverse  event  reports  that  Buprenorphine  alone  is  being  used  in 
pregnant  women  because  a  number  of  the  most  frequently  reported  events  related  to  this  use:  Drug 
Exposure  during  Pregnancy  (300  cases),  Drug  Withdrawal  Syndrome  Neonatal  (212)  and  Tremor 
Neonatal (21). A number of foetal abnormalities and foetal deaths also were reported.   
In  some  markets  Buprenorphine  alone  is  contraindicated  in  pregnancy  and  in  others  Buprenorphine 
alone  use  is  based  on  evaluation  by  the  physician  of  the  risk  of  Buprenorphine  alone  use  versus 
continued  illicit  heroin  use.  The  cases  of  foetal  death  and  deformities  did  not  display  any  unusual 
pattern and were not specific to the use of buprenorphine. In neonates of opioid dependent mothers the 
following problems occur more often: small for gestational age, reduced weight and length, premature 
delivery, small head circumference, neonatal withdrawal, and later mental, emotional or behavioural 
problems.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Drug  interaction  profile  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  was  described  for  buprenorphine  alone  and  not  for  the 
fixed combination.  
No  information  to  interactions  is  present  in  the  post  marketing  database.  The  SPC  includes 
information regarding the interactions and the monosubstances in section 4.5 and 4.9. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In clinical trials of opioid dependence with buprenorphine there have been 116 cases of adverse events 
leading  to  discontinuation  from  treatment. Of the 1715 subjects who were treated with Suboxone in 
clinical studies, 42 (2.4%) discontinued due to adverse events.  This percentage compares favourably 
with patients who discontinued due to adverse events being treated with Buprenorphine alone (5.9%), 
buprenorphine solution (4.4%), and methadone (1.8%). 
Treatment 
Suboxone 
Buprenorphine alone 
Buprenorphine Solution 
Methadone 
TOTAL 
  Discontinuations from Treatment due to Adverse Events 
Total Patients  Number discontinuing due to adverse events  % 
1715 
370 
949 
567 
42 
22 
42 
10 
116 
2.4% 
5.9% 
4.4% 
1.8% 
Most  of  the  discontinuations  were  due  to  a  withdrawal  syndrome  (19)  or  individual  withdrawal 
symptoms,  which  are  not  unexpected  in  patients  being  stabilised  from  street  opiates.    Nausea  (12), 
nausea  with  vomiting  (8),  and  vomiting  (5)  are  known  side  effects  of  buprenorphine  treatment  that 
affect some patients more than others.  Dizziness (7) is a known side effect of buprenorphine. 
©EMEA 2006 
36/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The discontinuation rates of Suboxone or Buprenorphine alone treated subjects are comparable.   
•  Post marketing experience 
Post marketing exposure to Suboxone 
For Suboxone, in the period from launch in the USA in April 2003 until March 31, 2005, 21.1 million 
tablets (6.52 million 2mg, and 14.58 million 8mg tablets) were distributed for the treatment of opioid 
dependent patients. This is equivalent to 16.21 million doses of 8mg Suboxone or 8.11 million doses 
of 16mg Suboxone taken over the 23-month period, or 23,190 or 11,595 patients treated with 8mg or 
16mg Suboxone per day, respectively.   
  Post Marketing Exposure to Suboxone and Buprenorphine alone 
Suboxone 
Launch (April 2003) to March 2005 
Millions of tablets 
Product not available 
6.52 
14.58 
21.32 
Dosage form 
0.4 mg tablet 
2 mg tablet 
8 mg tablet 
Total tablets 
Number of daily doses  8.11 million 16mg doses over 23 months 
11,595 patients (based on 16mg per day) 
Patients per year 
Buprenorphine alone 
Launch (February 1996) to March 2005 
Millions of tablets 
70.22 
307.99 
198.99 
577.2 
279.5 million 8mg doses over 10 years 
76,575 patients (based on 8mg per day) 
Source data: 2005 PSUR (Report RC050324). Report located in Module 5, Section 5.3.6.2 
Suboxone Post Marketing Adverse Events 
In  the  period  since  the  launch  in  the  USA  in  April  2003  to  March  31,  2005,  there  were  89  post 
marketing adverse events reported for Suboxone.  The types of adverse events were similar to those 
reported for Buprenorphine alone. 
Buprenorphine alone Post Marketing Adverse Events 
Safety  data  pertaining  to  the  buprenorphine  tablet  are  available  from  marketed  use  in  France  since 
February 1996. 
The  profile  of  adverse  events  relating  to  Buprenorphine  alone  use  has  been  similar  year  on  year.  
Overdose deaths in addicts using Buprenorphine alone in combination with other psychoactive agents 
continue to be the most serious events.  Neonatal withdrawal symptoms, usual not serious but frequent 
in  number,  relate  to  the  continued  safe  use  of  Buprenorphine  alone  in  pregnant  opioid  dependent 
women.    Reports  of  hepatitis  and  elevations  of  hepatic  enzymes  continue  to  be  reported  at  a  low 
incidence.    Usually,  these  occur  in  subjects  already  compromised  with  HCV  infection,  or  who  are 
taking other drugs know to have hepatic effects.  Intravenous misuse is also a contributory risk factor 
for hepatic adverse events. 
The  adverse  event  profiles  of  Suboxone  and  Buprenorphine  alone  are  comparable  regarding  post 
marketing exposure. 
Retrospective  collection  of  patient  data  in  study  RC050175  in  Finland  regarding  patients 
switched from Buprenorphine alone to Suboxone treatment. 
Data were collected from the records of 64 patients, 52 male and 12 female. Twenty of the patients 
had been treated with Suboxone for over a year at follow up. 
During  the  4  week  observation  period,  there  were  approximately  1714  patient  days  of  dosing  with 
Suboxone, either alone or in combination with Buprenorphine alone. There were approximately 17883 
patient days of dosing with Suboxone during both the 4 week study period and the follow up period. 
An average daily dose during the 4 week study period was calculated by each patient by summing the 
doses prescribed and dividing by the number of days the patient remains in the study. The estimated 
©EMEA 2006 
37/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overall  average  daily  dose  of  Suboxone  when  not  in  combination  with  Buprenorphine  alone  was 
22.9mg. Half of the patients were taking Suboxone at doses between 20mg and 28mg. 
There were no deaths ore other serious adverse events reported for patients in the study. 
During  the  4-week  period  32  of  64  patients  reported  adverse  events.  During the follow up 19 of 61 
patients reported adverse events.  
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Suboxone  doses  in  clinical  trials  ranged  from  2mg  to  32mg.  Sufficient  safety  data  is  available  for 
doses up to 24mg daily in different age and ethnic groups. 
In  the  European  Union,  Buprenorphine  alone  (Buprenorphine)  was  first  approved  for  substitution 
treatment of opioid dependence in 1995 and has been marketed since 1996.  
Suboxone (Buprenorphine+Naloxone) have been marketed in the USA since April 2003 and therefore 
safety data could be presented over a period of more than two years. 
In Finland, Suboxone was made available in late 2003 under special license, which made it possible 
for  a  retrospective  study  to  be  conducted  on  subjects  who  switch  from  Buprenorphine  alone  to 
Suboxone, thereby allowing the evaluation of safety resulting from such a switch. 
The three 52-week clinical trials of Suboxone (CR96/013+CR96/014, NIDA#1018, US08) provide the 
main safety database for Suboxone, supported by a number of smaller Suboxone studies and the above 
mentioned post marketing data. A second safety database is from Buprenorphine alone clinical trials, 
buprenorphine sublingual solution clinical trials, and from clinical pharmacology studies. 
3034 patients (2054 male, 980 female) were exposed to buprenorphine in clinical trials.   
The most frequently reported events during the efficacy study were headache, withdrawal syndrome, 
pain,  insomnia,  nausea  and  sweating.  The  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  comparable  when 
buprenorphine was administered as monotherapy as compared to administration in combination with 
naloxone.  The  majority  of  adverse  events  reported  were  either  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  
Headache, pain, and withdrawal syndrome were the most frequent events reported as being severe in 
intensity. When looking at the dose distribution of severe adverse events, they tended to occur with the 
most frequently prescribed doses, 16mg and 20mg Suboxone per day.   
The serious event preferred term most commonly reported was elevated liver function test. This is not 
a normal category of serious adverse events reporting but was designated as such in the protocols of 
studies CR96/013+CR96/014. The large number of serious adverse events related to psychiatric body 
system is explainable by the instability of the addict patient population and lead to the conclusion that 
a  regularly  monitoring  during  treatment  is  needed.  Adverse  events  relating  to  the  gastrointestinal 
system  occur  very  often  after  induction  of an opioid treatment, particularly in opioid naïve patients. 
Therefore  it’s  not  surprising  that  these  adverse  events  are  common  reasons  for  discontinuation.  The 
number of deaths is not increased in Suboxone treated subjects. 
It can be concluded that patients with existing hepatitis and/or HCV infection are probably more likely 
to have greater increases in hepatic enzymes during treatment with buprenorphine (or methadone and 
LAAM) than others without these complications.   
Differences  in  baseline  liver  functions  (232  subjects  in  study  CR96/013  had  normal  baseline  liver 
function  and  85  had  abnormal  baseline  liver  function)  did  not  appear  to  be  associated  with  any 
consistent trend in the incidence of adverse events. 
In  some  markets  Buprenorphine  alone  is  contraindicated  in  pregnancy  and  in  others  Buprenorphine 
alone  use  is  based  on  evaluation  by  the  physician  of  the  risk  of  Buprenorphine  alone  use  versus 
continued  illicit  heroin  use.  The  cases  of  foetal  death  and  deformities  did  not  display  any  unusual 
pattern and were not specific to the use of buprenorphine. In neonates of opioid dependent mothers the 
following problems occur more often: small for gestational age, reduced weight and length, premature 
delivery, small head circumference, neonatal withdrawal, and later mental, emotional or behavioural 
problems. This will be discussed in the preclinical assessment report in more detail.  
©EMEA 2006 
38/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  adverse  event  profiles  of  Suboxone  and  Buprenorphine  alone  are  comparable.  This  conclusion 
results from more than 3000 subjects in clinical trials and from post marketing data in the USA. No 
safety issues arise from switching the therapy from Buprenorphine alone to Suboxone. 
The CHMP was concerned about spontaneous abortion with the use of Suboxone.  
The  applicant’s  deletion  of  this  term  was  not  agreed,  as  in  the  applicant’s  response  there  are  no 
unequivocal  data  supporting  causality.  Pregnancy  data  of  patients  under  Buprenorphine  alone 
treatment from the literature are scarce. The applicant states that all spontaneous abortion cases in the 
latest  PSUR  covering  the  period  05  May  2005  to  04  Nov  2005  were  from  EU  countries  in  which 
pregnancy is not an absolute contraindication.  This would suggest a possible link with buprenorphine 
substitution treatment.  It is accepted  that polyabuse is a factor and this can be reflected in the SPC.  
Also in this period there were 6 cases of spontaneous abortion, 5 foetal deaths and 4 premature deaths 
in  93  pregnancy  cases  (Results  of  the  Cumulative  Prospective  Pregnancy  data).  In  the  Cumulative 
Retrospective Pregnancy Data (119 Pregnancy Cases with 294 Pregnancies Reported) there were 11 
spontaneous abortion in 10 mothers. 
Neonatal drug withdrawal syndrome will be mentioned in section 4.8 of the SPC.  In fact the use of 
Buprenorphine alone and Suboxone, whether by inappropriate diversion to pregnancy women or not, 
has  occurred  and  results  in  a  neonatal  withdrawal  syndrome  that  should  be  addressed  appropriately. 
The  most  recently  submitted  PSUR  describes  38  cases  as  the  most  common  newborn  event  with 
symptoms compatible with drug withdrawal syndrome. 
The  applicant  had  no  further  information  with  which  to  address  concerns  relating  to  the  use  of 
Suboxone in pregnancy at the time of the procedure and proposed to address this issue within the Risk 
Management Plan.   
The section 4.8 of the SPC has been adapted accordingly. 
“Spontaneous abortion has been reported with both buprenorphine and buprenorphine-naloxone. It is 
not  possible  to  establish  a  causal  relationship  since  cases  typically  involve  other  drug  use  or  risk 
factors for spontaneous abortion (see Section 4.6). 
A  neonatal  abstinence  syndrome  has  been  reported  among  newborns  of  women  who  have  received 
buprenorphine during pregnancy.  The syndrome may be milder and more protracted than that from 
short  acting  full  mu-opioid  agonists.    The  nature  of  the  syndrome  may  vary  depending  upon  the 
mother’s drug use history (see Section 4.6).” 
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
A detailed description of the company´s pharmacovigilance system as required by the new legislation 
&  provisions  with  this  consolidated  response  documentation  was  presented,  which  included  the 
statements  of  the  MAH  and  the  qualified  person  regarding  their  availability  of  means  for  the 
notifications  of  adverse 
the  organisation  and  procedural  aspects  of  global 
pharmacovigilance and European safety department activities within Shering-Plough. 
reactions, 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table: Summary of the risk management plan 
©EMEA 2006 
39/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Induction with 
Suboxone 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
The applicant commits to 
performing a prospective study 
Switch from 
Buprenorphine alone 
to Suboxone 
Switch from 
Suboxone to 
Buprenorphine alone 
during detoxification  
Spontaneous 
abortion 
The applicant commits to 
conducting a prospective 
controlled study  
The therapy will be monitored. 
and reported with regard to the 
development of a low dose 
(0.4/0.1) tablet of Suboxone . 
Annual Safety Reports and 
Periodic Safety Update 
Neonatal withdrawal 
syndrome, other 
newborn conditions 
Hepatitis, other liver 
abnormalities 
Intravenous misuse 
Annual Safety Reports and 
Periodic Safety Update 
Annual Safety Reports and 
Periodic Safety Update 
Annual Safety Reports and 
Periodic Safety Update 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Physician/pharmacist awareness and 
patient information. Also outlined in the 
SPC section 4.2 
Physician/pharmacist awareness and 
patient information. Also outlined in the 
SPC section 4.4 
Physician/pharmacist awareness and 
patient information. Also outlined in the 
SPC section 4.2 
Physician/pharmacist awareness and 
patient information. Also outlined in the 
SPC section 4.6. 
Physician/pharmacist awareness and 
patient information. Also outlined in the 
SPC section 4.6. 
Physician/pharmacist awareness and 
patient information. Also outlined in the 
SPC section 4.4. 
Physician/pharmacist awareness and 
patient information. Also outlined in the 
SPC section 4.4. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: 
The pharmacovigilance plan included signalling reviews on events of interest: spontaneous abortion, 
neonatal  withdrawal  syndrome  and  other  newborn  conditions,  hepatitis  and  other  hepatic 
abnormalities,  misuse,  intravenous  misuse,  death,  overdose,  drug  interaction,  infections,  psychiatric 
disorders, from Schering Plough and from WHO Adverse event database.  
The risk minimization plan included sales force training to ensure safe and effective use and minimize 
the potential for diversion and misuse. Additional information packages for physicians, pharmacists, 
and  patients  should  increase  the  awareness  on  the  risks  of  drug  abuse  and  should  emphasize  the 
importance of reporting the cases of abuse and AE’s. 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of test carried out indicate satisfactory consistency 
and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
No  novel  toxicological  aspects  rose  from  the  studies  with  a  mixture  of  buprenorphine/naloxone  in 
comparison with knowledge about the compounds alone. Based on toxicokinetic data raised from the 
dietary  study  with  Suboxone,  an  exposure  of  animals  sufficiently  above  the  maximum  therapeutic 
dose  in  humans  has  been  reached.  Clinical  signs  reflected  the  pharmacodynamics  of  the  active 
ingredients.  
Statistically  significant  increases  in  the  incidence  of  benign  testicular  interstitial  (Leydig's)  cell 
adenomas  were  observed  in  all  dosage  groups  during  a  2-year  dietary  carcinogenicity  study  in  rats. 
©EMEA 2006 
40/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the estimated exposure multiples of 3 to 75 times, based on a human daily sublingual dose of 
16 mg calculated on a mg/m² basis, the clinical relevance of this findings remains limited.  
Efficacy 
The combination of an opioid antagonist with a potent µ-opioid analgesic is an established strategy for 
reducing the potential for intravenous misuse.  
Concerning  the  pharmacokinetic  programme,  individual  studies  were  not  powered  to  demonstrate 
statistically  comparable  bioavailability  of  buprenorphine  from  Suboxone  or  Buprenorphine  alone 
(buprenorfine  alone).  Nevertheless  all  the  presented  studies  lead  to  consistently  comparable 
pharmacokinetic  results.  The  conclusion  of  comparable  bioavailability  of  buprenorphine  from 
Suboxone or Buprenorphine alone is therefore endorsed. 
Based on the results of the pharmacodynamic studies the intravenous misuse potential for Suboxone is 
very low in comparison with buprenorphine alone.  
The intravenous or intramuscular administration produces withdrawal effects in all opiate dependent 
subjects. At the same time, sublingual or oral administration of naloxone in doses up to 8 mg has no 
pharmacodynamic effects. 
After 4 week of treatment patients treated with Suboxone had statisticallly significant reduced heroin 
use  versus  placebo,  as  judged  by  the  higher  percentages  of  urine  samples  that  were  negative  for 
opiates  (17.8%  versus  5.8%).  Patients  on  Suboxone  also  had  a  significant  reduction  in  craving  for 
heroin.  
Results  also indicate that Suboxone is as effective as Buprenorphine alone (buprenorphine alone) in 
the treatment of opiate dependency.  
Finally, successful detoxification can be obtained with Suboxone titrated downward to 2 mg per/day 
before termination of the therapy. The switch to 0.4 mg of buprenorphine alone may be considered. 
Safety 
The  adverse  event  profiles  of  Suboxone  and  Buprenorphine  alone  are  comparable.  This  conclusion 
results  from  data  of  more  than  3000  subjects  in  clinical  trials  and  from  post  marketing  data  in  the 
USA. 
The most frequently reported events during the efficacy study (reported by at least 10% of subjects) 
were  headache,  withdrawal  syndrome,  pain,  insomnia,  nausea,  and  sweating.  No  safety  issues  arise 
from switching the therapy from Buprenorphine alone to Suboxone. 
Patients  with  existing  hepatitis  and/or  HCV  infection  are  probably  more  likely  to  have  greater 
increases  in  hepatic  enzymes  during  treatment  with  buprenorphine  than  others  without  these 
complications.   
Spontaneous  abortion  and  neonatal  withdrawal  syndrome  have  consistently  been  reported  in  case  of 
exposure during pregnancy, 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
It was ongoing at the time of assessment. It will be provided post-authorisation (see 2.7).  
Risk-benefit assessment 
SUBOXONE  is  a  fixed  combination  product  for  chronic  substitution  therapy  in  opiate  dependence 
consisting  of  buprenorphine  and  naloxone  formulated 
tablet  containing 
buprenorphine and naloxone in the ratio 4:1 of the bases. 
The  claimed  indication  is  substitution  treatment  for  opioid  drug  dependence,  within  a  framework  of 
medical,  social  and  psychological  treatment.  The  intention  of  the  naloxone  component  is  to  deter 
intravenous misuse. 
into  a  sublingual 
Suboxone is intended as a “take home” medication and treatment is intended for use in adults and, as 
requested by the CHMP, adolescents over 15 years of age who have agreed to be treated for addiction. 
©EMEA 2006 
41/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concerning efficacy, the clinical studies programme consistently demonstrated Suboxone is effective 
as  substitution  treatment  for  opioid  drug  dependence  within  a  framework  of  medical,  social  and 
psychological treatment for addiction. 
Concerning  safety,  Suboxone  was  studied  over  short  and  long  term  repeated  administration  and 
followed across substantial post marketing experience The safety profile of Suboxone does not raise 
concerns with respect to the risk already known for buprenorphine alone. 
 A risk management plan was submitted.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  in  addition  to  the  use  of 
routine pharmacovigilance, the following follow-up measures were needed:   
• 
• 
• 
to performing both a prospective study of induction with Suboxone, and  a prospective controlled 
study of the switch from buprenorphine alone to Suboxone,  
the Applicant will provide all safety information from ongoing or planned studies  
the switch from Suboxone to buprenorphine alone in detoxification therapy will be monitored and 
should problems occur they will reported and discussed with regard to the development of a low 
dose (0.4/0.1) tablet of Suboxone 
(cid:131)  the following additional risk minimisation activities were required physician awareness on the risk 
of  spontaneous  abortion,  neonatal  withdrawal  syndrome  and  other  neonatal  conditions,  hepatitis 
and other liver abnormalities, (intravenous) misuse and related severe adverse events  
Buprenorphine  is  a  substance  scheduled  in  Schedule  III  of  the  UN  convention  on  Psychotropic 
substances, which requires it to be classified as special medical prescription. 
It  is  proposed  that  Suboxone  is  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  treatment  of 
addiction /opiate dependence. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Suboxone  in  the  treatment  is  substitution  treatment  for 
opioid  drug  dependence,  within  a  framework  of  medical,  social  and  psychological  treatment.  The 
intention  of  the  naloxone  component  is  to  deter  intravenous  misuse.  As  requested  by  the  CHMP, 
treatment  is  intended  for  use  in  adults  and  adolescents  over  15  years  of  age  who  have  agreed  to  be 
treated  for  addiction  -  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation  
©EMEA 2006 
42/42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
