Summary of risk management plan for SUBOXONE 
(buprenorphine / naloxone) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for SUBOXONE. The RMP details important 
risks of SUBOXONE, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about SUBOXONE’s risks. 
SUBOXONE’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how SUBOXONE should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for SUBOXONE should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of SUBOXONE’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
SUBOXONE is authorised for substitution treatment for opioid drug dependence, within a framework 
of medical, social and psychological treatment. The intention of the naloxone component is to deter 
intravenous misuse. Treatment is intended for use in adults and adolescents over 15 years of age 
who have agreed to be treated for addiction (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
buprenorphine / naloxone as the active substance and it is given by sublingual route (tablet or film) 
or by buccal route (film). 
Further information about the evaluation of SUBOXONE’s benefits can be found in SUBOXONE’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/suboxone. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of SUBOXONE, together with measures to minimise such risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of SUBOXONE are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of SUBOXONE. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Abuse, misuse and diversion 
Use in patients with hepatic impairment 
Hepatic disorders 
Drug withdrawal syndrome 
Use during pregnancy and lactation leading to opioid toxicity or 
withdrawal in the child 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Abuse, misuse and diversion 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Sublingual buprenorphine can be misused or abused in a 
to the medicine 
manner similar to other opioids and can lead to 
dependence in previously non-dependent individuals, 
overdose and potentially fatal respiratory depression. 
Combining buprenorphine with naloxone in SUBOXONE is 
intended to deter misuse and abuse of buprenorphine. 
Intravenous or intranasal misuse of SUBOXONE is expected 
to be less likely than with buprenorphine alone since the 
naloxone component can antagonise the opioid effect of 
buprenorphine and precipitate withdrawal in individuals 
physically dependent on opioids. 
Abuse of a medicinal product is defined as persistent or 
sporadic, intentional excessive use of medicinal products 
which is accompanied by harmful physical or psychological 
effects [Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices 
(GVP), Annex I - Definitions]. 
Misuse of a medicinal product is defined as situations where 
a medicinal product is intentionally and inappropriately 
used not in accordance with the terms of the marketing 
 
 
Important identified risk: Abuse, misuse and diversion 
authorisation [Guideline on good pharmacovigilance 
practices (GVP), Annex I - Definitions]. 
Misuse of a medicinal product for illegal purposes 
(diversion) is defined as misuse with the additional 
connation of an intention of misusing the medicinal product 
to cause an effect in another person. This includes, 
amongst others: the sale, to other people, of medicines for 
recreational purposes and use of a medicinal product to 
facilitate assault [Guideline on good pharmacovigilance 
practices (GVP), Annex I - Definitions]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Illicit opioid and polysubstance abusers are at risk of IV and 
intranasal abuse of SUBOXONE.  
Sub-optimal treatment with SUBOXONE may prompt 
medication misuse by the patient, leading to overdose or 
treatment dropout. A patient who is under-dosed with 
SUBOXONE may continue responding to uncontrolled 
withdrawal symptoms by self-medicating with opioids, 
alcohol or other sedative-hypnotics such as 
benzodiazepines. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 6.5, and 6.6 
PL section 3 
Legal status:  
The product is being submitted under special and restricted 
medical prescription  
Pack size:  
SUBOXONE sublingual tablets available in 7- or 28-tablet 
blister packs 
SUBOXONE sublingual films available in packs of 7, 14, 28 
or 30 individual sachets  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Important identified risk: Use in patients with hepatic impairment 
Evidence for linking the risk 
The effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics 
to the medicine 
of buprenorphine and naloxone were evaluated in a post-
marketing study. Both buprenorphine and naloxone are 
extensively metabolised, and plasma levels were found to 
be higher for both buprenorphine and naloxone in patients 
with moderate and severe hepatic impairment. 
 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment could 
be at increased risk. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 
PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Important identified risk: Hepatic disorders 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Cases of acute hepatic injury have been reported in opioid-
to the medicine 
dependent patients both in clinical trials and in post-
marketing adverse event reports for buprenorphine. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with viral hepatitis or existing liver dysfunction are 
at greater risk of liver injury. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Important identified risk: Drug withdrawal syndrome 
Evidence for linking the risk 
In patients presenting with marked drug dependence, initial 
to the medicine 
administration of buprenorphine can produce a drug 
withdrawal syndrome similar to that associated with 
naloxone. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Withdrawal can occur upon abrupt discontinuation or rapid 
taper, dose omission, sub-optimal dosing and treatment 
initiation before objective and clear signs of withdrawal are 
evident. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4 
PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Use during pregnancy and lactation leading to opioid 
toxicity or withdrawal in the child 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Use during pregnancy may lead to opioid toxicity and 
to the medicine 
withdrawal symptoms in the newborn. Buprenorphine is 
excreted in human breast milk and may lead to opioid 
toxicity in the child. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding while being 
treated with buprenorphine. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.6 
PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
SUBOXONE. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for SUBOXONE. 
 
 
 
