Summary of risk management plan for Sugammadex Adroiq (Sugammadex) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/mL 
solution  for  injection.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Sugammadex,  risk  minimisation 
measures needed to minimise these risks and routine pharmacovigilance activities needed to 
obtain more information  about Sugammadex  Adroiq  100mg/mL  solution  for  injection risks 
and uncertainties (missing information). 
Sugammadex  Adroiq  100mg/ml  solution  for  injection  summary  of  product  characteristics 
(SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and 
patients on how Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/mL solution for injection should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/mL solution for injection should 
be read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation 
and its plain- language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/ml solution for injection 's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/ml solution for injection is authorised for the routine reversal of 
neuromuscular blockade (NMB) in adults, children and adolescents. Refer to the SmPC for 
the full indication. 
It  contains sugammadex  as the active substance  and  it  is available  as  solution for  injection 
(100 mg/mL) for  administration as  a single  IV bolus at doses  of  2 mg/kg, 4  mg/kg  and 16 
mg/kg. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Sugammadex  Adroiq  100mg/ml  solution  for 
injection s benefits can be found in Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/ml solution for injection s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage. (https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sugammadex-
adroiq). 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important  risks  of  Sugammadex  Adroiq  100mg/ml  solution  for  injection  together  with 
measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about 
Sugammadex  Adroiq 100mg/ml solution for injection risks, are outlined below. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in 
the  SmPC addressed to healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The  authorised  pack  size  -  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to 
ensure  that  the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the HCP can help to 
minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and  regularly  analysed,  including  periodic  safety  update  report  assessment  so  that  prompt 
action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/ml solution for injection are risks that need 
special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the 
medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified 
or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the 
use of Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/ml solution for injection Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and 
needs to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B. Summary of Important Risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product. 
II.C. Post-authorisation Development Plan 
No post authorisation study is planned for this product. 
II.C.1 Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/ml solution for injection. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other Studies in post-authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Sugammadex Adroiq 100mg/ml solution for injection. 
3 
 
 
 
