EMA/931083/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005935 
Sugammadex Amomed (sugammadex) 
An overview of Sugammadex Amomed and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Sugammadex Amomed and what is it used for? 
Sugammadex Amomed is a medicine used to reverse the effect of the muscle relaxants rocuronium 
and vecuronium. Muscle relaxants are medicines used during some types of operation to make the 
muscles relax, including the muscles that help the patient to breathe. Muscle relaxants make it easier 
for the surgeon to do the operation. Sugammadex Amomed is used to speed up the recovery from the 
muscle relaxant, usually at the end of the operation.  
Sugammadex Amomed can be used in adults who have received rocuronium and vecuronium, and in 
children aged 2 years or older who have received rocuronium. 
Sugammadex Amomed contains the active substance sugammadex and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that Sugammadex Amomed contains the same active substance and works in the same way as 
a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for Sugammadex Amomed 
is called Bridion. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
How is Sugammadex Amomed used? 
Sugammadex Amomed can only be obtained with a prescription. It is given by or under the supervision 
of an anaesthetist (a doctor specialised in anaesthesia). Sugammadex Amomed is given into a vein as 
a single bolus injection (given all at once). The dose depends on the patient’s age and body weight and 
on how much the muscle relaxant is affecting the muscles. 
For more information about using Sugammadex Amomed, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Sugammadex Amomed work? 
The active substance in Sugammadex Amomed, sugammadex, is a selective relaxant binding agent. 
This means that it attaches to the muscle relaxants rocuronium and vecuronium, forming a complex 
that inactivates the muscle relaxants and stops them having an effect. As a result, the muscles 
contract and begin to work normally again, including the muscles that help the patient to breathe. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Sugammadex Amomed been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Bridion, and do not need to be repeated for Sugammadex 
Amomed.  
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Sugammadex Amomed. There was 
no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Sugammadex Amomed is absorbed 
similarly to the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This 
is because Sugammadex Amomed is given by injection into a vein, so the active substance is delivered 
straight into the bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Sugammadex Amomed? 
Because Sugammadex Amomed is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the 
same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Sugammadex Amomed authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Sugammadex 
Amomed has been shown to be comparable to Bridion. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Bridion, the benefits of Sugammadex Amomed outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised 
for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sugammadex Amomed? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sugammadex Amomed have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sugammadex Amomed are continuously monitored. Suspected 
side effects reported with Sugammadex Amomed are carefully evaluated and any necessary action 
taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Sugammadex Amomed 
Sugammadex Amomed received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 10 January 
2023. 
Further information on Sugammadex Amomed can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Sugammadex-Amomed. Information on the reference 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 01-2023. 
Sugammadex Amomed (sugammadex)  
EMA/931083/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
