EMA/535318/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005403 
Sugammadex Mylan (sugammadex) 
An overview of Sugammadex Mylan and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Sugammadex Mylan and what is it used for? 
Sugammadex Mylan is a medicine used to reverse the effect of the muscle relaxants rocuronium and 
vecuronium. Muscle relaxants are medicines used during some types of operation to make the muscles 
relax, including the muscles that help the patient to breathe. Muscle relaxants make it easier for the 
surgeon to do the operation. Sugammadex Mylan is used to speed up the recovery from the muscle 
relaxant, usually at the end of the operation.  
Sugammadex Mylan can be used in adults who have received rocuronium and vecuronium, and in 
children aged 2 years or older who have received rocuronium. 
Sugammadex Mylan contains the active substance sugammadex and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that Sugammadex Mylan contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Bridion. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Sugammadex Mylan used? 
Sugammadex Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription. It is given by or under the supervision of 
an anaesthetist (a doctor specialised in anaesthesia). Sugammadex Mylan is given into a vein as a 
single ‘bolus’ injection (given all at once). The dose depends on the patient’s age and body weight and 
on how much the muscle relaxant is affecting the muscles. 
Sugammadex Mylan is not recommended for use in children and adolescents for recovery after 
vecuronium, or for rapid recovery after any muscle relaxant.  
For more information about using Sugammadex Mylan, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
How does Sugammadex Mylan work? 
The active substance in Sugammadex Mylan, sugammadex, is a ‘selective relaxant binding agent’. This 
means that it attaches to the muscle relaxants rocuronium and vecuronium forming a ‘complex’ that 
inactivates the muscle relaxants and stops them having an effect. As a result, the effect of blockade of 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the muscles due to rocuronium and vecuronium on the muscles is reversed, and the muscles begin to 
work normally again, including the muscles that help the patient to breathe. 
How has Sugammadex Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Bridion, and do not need to be repeated for Sugammadex 
Mylan. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Sugammadex Mylan. There was 
no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Sugammadex Mylan is absorbed similarly to 
the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Sugammadex Mylan is given by injection into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into 
the bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Sugammadex Mylan? 
Because Sugammadex Mylan is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Sugammadex Mylan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Sugammadex 
Mylan has been shown to be comparable to Bridion. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Bridion, the benefits of Sugammadex Mylan outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sugammadex Mylan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sugammadex Mylan have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sugammadex Mylan are continuously monitored. Suspected 
side effects reported with Sugammadex Mylan are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken 
to protect patients. 
Other information about Sugammadex Mylan 
Sugammadex Mylan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 November 
2021. 
Further information on Sugammadex Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/sugammadex-mylan. Information on the reference medicine 
can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2021. 
Sugammadex Mylan (sugammadex)  
EMA/535318/2021  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
