Summary of risk management plan for Sugammadex Piramal Injection 100 mg/mL 
(sugammadex) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Sugammadex Piramal 100 mg/mL Solution 
for Injection (sugammadex). The RMP details important risks of Sugammadex 100 mg/mL Solution 
for Injection, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Sugammadex  Piramal  100  mg/mL  Solution  for  Injection  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Sugammadex Piramal 100 mg/mL Solution for Injection summary of product characteristics (SmPC) 
and its package leaflet (PL) give essential information to healthcare  professionals and patients on 
how Sugammadex Piramal 100 mg/mL Solution for Injection should be used. 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Sugammadex 
Piramal 100 mg/mL Solution for Injection RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Sugammadex  Piramal  100  mg/mL  Solution  for  Injection  is  used  for  Reversal  of  neuromuscular 
blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium in adults. For the paediatric population: sugammadex 
is only recommended for routine reversal of rocuronium induced blockade in children and adolescents 
aged 2 to 17 years. It contains sugammadex as the active substance and it is given by intravenous 
route as a single bolus injection. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Sugammadex  Piramal  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Sugammadex-Piramal’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/sugammadex-piramal 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important risks of Sugammadex Piramal 100 mg/mL Solution for Injection, together with measures 
to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Sugammadex Piramal 100 
mg/mL Solution for Injection risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal product can be: 
Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
The  medicine’s  legal  status  –  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
\ 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Sugammadex Piramal 100 mg/mL Solution for Injection are risks that need special 
risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Sugammadex Piramal 100 mg/mL 
Solution  for  Injection.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal 
product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  product  information  is  aligned  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Sugammadex Piramal 100 mg/mL Solution for Injection. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
There are no studies required for Sugammadex Piramal 100 mg/mL Solution for Injection. 
 
 
 
 
