ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 33 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 microgram/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 300 units of insulin glargine* and 150 micrograms lixisenatide in 3 ml 
solution. 
Each ml contains 100 units of insulin glargine and 50 micrograms of lixisenatide. 
Each dose step contains 1 unit of insulin glargine and 0.5 micrograms of lixisenatide 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 33 microgram/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 300 units of insulin glargine and 100 micrograms of lixisenatide in 3 ml 
solution. 
Each ml contains 100 units of insulin glargine and 33 micrograms of lixisenatide. 
Each dose step contains 1 unit of insulin glargine and 0.33 micrograms of lixisenatide 
*Insulin glargine is produced by recombinant DNA technology in Escherichia coli. 
The dose window on the pen shows the number of dose steps. 
Excipient(s) with known effects  
Each ml contains 2.7 milligrams of metacresol. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen (SoloStar) 
Clear colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Suliqua is indicated for the treatment of adults with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus to 
improve glycaemic control as an adjunct to diet and exercise in addition to metformin with or without 
sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors.  
For study results with respect to effect on glycaemic control, and the populations studied, see section 
4.4 and 5.1. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Suliqua is available in two pre-filled pens, providing different dosing options, i.e., Suliqua 
(10-40) pen, Suliqua (30-60) pen respectively. The differentiation between the pen strengths is based 
on the dose range of the pen. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 micrograms/ml pre-filled pen delivers dose steps from 10-40 units of 
insulin glargine in combination with 5-20 mcg of lixisenatide (Suliqua (10-40) pen). 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 33 micrograms/ml pre-filled pen delivers dose steps from 30-60 units of 
insulin glargine in combination with 10-20 mcg of lixisenatide (Suliqua (30-60) pen). 
To avoid medication errors, the prescriber must make sure that the correct strength and number of dose 
steps is stated in the prescription (see section 4.4). 
Posology  
The dose must be individualised based on clinical response and is titrated based on the patient’s need 
for insulin. The lixisenatide dose is increased or decreased along with insulin glargine dose and also 
depends on which pen is used. 
Starting dose  
Therapy with basal insulin or glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist or oral glucose 
lowering medicinal product other than metformin and SGLT-2 inhibitors should be discontinued prior 
to initiation of Suliqua.  
The starting dose of Suliqua is based on previous anti-diabetic treatment, and in order not to exceed 
the recommended lixisenatide starting dose of 10 mcg: 
Insulin naïve 
patients (oral 
anti-diabetic 
treatment or 
GLP-1 receptor 
agonist) 
10 dose steps 
(10 units/5 mcg)* 
Previous therapy 
Insulin glargine 
(100 units/ml)** 
≥20 to <30 units 
Insulin glargine 
(100 units/ml)** 
≥30 to ≤60 units 
20 dose steps 
(20 units/10 mcg)* 
30 dose steps 
(30 units/10 mcg)* 
Starting 
dose 
and pen 
Suliqua 
(10-40) pen 
Suliqua 
(30-60) pen 
* Units insulin glargine (100 units/ml)/mcg lixisenatide 
Patients on less than 20 units of insulin glargine may be considered similar to insulin naive patients.  
** If a different basal insulin was used: 
• 
For twice daily basal insulin or insulin glargine (300 units/ml), the total daily dose previously 
used should be reduced by 20% to choose the Suliqua starting dose. 
For any other basal insulin, the same rule as for insulin glargine (100 units/ml) should be applied 
• 
The maximum daily dose is 60 units insulin glargine and 20 mcg lixisenatide corresponding to 60 dose 
steps.  
Suliqua should be injected once a day within one hour prior to a meal. It is preferable that the prandial 
injection is performed before the same meal every day, when the most convenient meal has been chosen.  
Dose titration  
Suliqua is to be dosed in accordance with the individual patient's need for insulin. It is recommended 
to optimise glycaemic control via dose adjustment based on fasting plasma glucose (see section 5.1). 
Close glucose monitoring is recommended during the transfer and in the following weeks. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If the patient starts with the Suliqua (10-40) pen, the dose may be titrated up to 40 dose steps with 
this pen. 
For doses >40 dose steps/day titration must be continued with Suliqua (30-60) pen. 
If the patient starts with the Suliqua (30-60) pen, the dose may be titrated up to 60 dose steps with 
this pen.  
For total daily doses >60 dose steps/day, Suliqua must not be used. 
Patients adjusting the amount or timing of dosing should only do so under medical supervision with 
appropriate glucose monitoring (see section 4.4).  
Missed dose 
If a dose of Suliqua is missed, it should be injected within the hour prior to the next meal. 
Special population  
Elderly  
Suliqua can be used in elderly patients. The dose should be adjusted on an individual basis, based on 
glucose monitoring. In the elderly, progressive deterioration of renal function may lead to a steady 
decrease in insulin requirements. For lixisenatide no dose adjustment is required based on age. The 
therapeutic experience of Suliqua in patients ≥75 years of age is limited. 
Renal impairment 
Suliqua is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment and end-stage renal disease as 
there is no sufficient therapeutic experience with use of lixisenatide.  
No dose adjustment is required for lixisenatide in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment.  
In patients with renal impairment, insulin requirements may be diminished due to reduced insulin 
metabolism.  
In patients with mild to moderate renal impairment using Suliqua, frequent glucose monitoring and 
dose adjustment may be necessary. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment of lixisenatide is needed in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). In 
patients with hepatic impairment, insulin requirements may be diminished due to reduced capacity for 
gluconeogenesis and reduced insulin metabolism. Frequent glucose monitoring and dose adjustment 
may be necessary for Suliqua in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Suliqua in the paediatric population. 
Method of administration  
Suliqua is to be injected subcutaneously in the abdomen, deltoid, or thigh.  
The injection sites should be rotated within the same region (abdomen, deltoid, or thigh) from one 
injection to the next in order to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and cutaneous amyloidosis (see 
section 4.4 and 4.8). 
Patients should be instructed to always use a new needle. The re-use of insulin pen needles increases 
the risk of blocked needles, which may cause under- or overdosing. In the event of blocked needles, 
patients must follow the instructions described in the Instructions for Use accompanying the package 
leaflet (see section 6.6). 
Suliqua must not be drawn from the cartridge of the pre-filled pen into a syringe to avoid dosing errors 
and potential overdose (see section 4.4). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Suliqua should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus or for the treatment of diabetic 
ketoacidosis. 
Rotation of the injection site 
Patients must be instructed to perform continuous rotation of the injection site to reduce the risk of 
developing lipodystrophy and cutaneous amyloidosis. There is a potential risk of delayed insulin 
absorption and worsened glycaemic control following insulin injections at sites with these reactions. A 
sudden change in the injection site to an unaffected area has been reported to result in hypoglycaemia. 
Blood glucose monitoring is recommended after the change in the injection site, and dose adjustment 
of antidiabetic medicinal product may be considered. 
Hypoglycaemia  
Hypoglycaemia was the most frequently reported observed adverse reaction during treatment with 
Suliqua (see section 4.8). Hypoglycaemia may occur if the dose of Suliqua is higher than required.  
Factors increasing the susceptibility to hypoglycaemia require particularly close monitoring and may 
necessitate dose adjustment. These factors include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
change in the injection area 
improved insulin sensitivity (e.g., by removal of stress factors) 
unaccustomed, increased or prolonged physical activity 
intercurrent illness (e.g., vomiting, diarrhoea) 
inadequate food intake 
missed meals 
alcohol consumption 
certain uncompensated endocrine disorders, (e.g., in hypothyroidism and in anterior pituitary or 
adrenocortical insufficiency) 
concomitant treatment with certain other medicinal products (see section 4.5). 
lixisenatide and/or insulin in combination with a sulfonylurea may result in an increased risk of 
hypoglycaemia. Therefore, Suliqua should not be given in combination with a sulfonylurea.  
- 
- 
The dose of Suliqua must be individualised based on clinical response and is titrated based on the 
patient’s need for insulin (see section 4.2). 
Acute pancreatitis  
Use of GLP-1 receptor agonists has been associated with a risk of developing acute pancreatitis. There 
have been few reported events of acute pancreatitis with lixisenatide although a causal relationship has 
not been established. Patients should be informed of the characteristic symptoms of acute pancreatitis: 
persistent, severe abdominal pain. If pancreatitis is suspected, Suliqua should be discontinued; if acute 
pancreatitis is confirmed, lixisenatide should not be restarted. Caution should be exercised in patients 
with a history of pancreatitis. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Severe gastrointestinal disease  
Use of GLP-1 receptor agonists may be associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions (see 
section 4.8). Suliqua has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including 
severe gastroparesis and therefore, the use of Suliqua is not recommended in these patients.   
Severe renal impairment  
There is no therapeutic experience in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less 
than 30 ml/min) or end-stage renal disease. Use is not recommended in patients with severe renal 
impairment or end-stage renal disease (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Concomitant medicinal products  
The delay of gastric emptying with lixisenatide may reduce the rate of absorption of orally 
administered medicinal products. Suliqua should be used with caution in patients receiving oral 
medicinal products that require rapid gastrointestinal absorption, require careful clinical monitoring or 
have a narrow therapeutic ratio. Specific recommendations regarding intake of such medicinal 
products are given in section 4.5. 
Dehydration  
Patients treated with Suliqua should be advised of the potential risk of dehydration in relation to 
gastrointestinal adverse reactions and take precautions to avoid fluid depletion. 
Antibody formation  
Administration of Suliqua may cause formation of antibodies against insulin glargine and/or 
lixisenatide. In rare cases, the presence of such antibodies may necessitate adjustment of the Suliqua 
dose in order to correct a tendency for hyperglycaemia or hypoglycaemia. 
Avoidance of medication errors  
Patients must be instructed to always check the pen label before each injection to avoid accidental 
mix-ups between the two different strengths of Suliqua and mix-ups with other injectable diabetes 
medicinal products. 
To avoid dosing errors and potential overdose, neither the patients nor healthcare professionals should 
ever use a syringe to draw the medicinal product from the cartridge in the pre-filled pen into a syringe. 
Antidiabetic medicinal products not studied in combination with Suliqua   
Suliqua has not been studied in combination with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors, 
sulfonylureas, glinides, and pioglitazone. 
Travel 
To avoid dosing errors and potential overdoses with changing to different time zones, the patient 
should seek the doctor’s advice before travelling. 
Excipients  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
'sodium-free'. 
This medicinal product contains metacresol, which may cause allergic reactions. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies with Suliqua have been performed. The information given below is based on 
studies with the monocomponents.  
Pharmacodynamic interactions  
A number of substances affect glucose metabolism and may require dose adjustment of Suliqua. 
Substances that may enhance the blood-glucose-lowering effect and increase susceptibility to 
hypoglycaemia include anti-hyperglycaemic medicinal products, angiotensin converting enzyme 
(ACE) inhibitors, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, 
pentoxifylline, propoxyphene, salicylates and sulphonamide antibiotics. 
Substances that may reduce the blood-glucose-lowering effect include corticosteroids, danazol, 
diazoxide, diuretics, glucagon, isoniazid, oestrogens and progestogens, phenothiazine derivatives, 
somatropin, sympathomimetic medicinal products (e.g., epinephrine [adrenaline], salbutamol, 
terbutaline), thyroid hormones, atypical antipsychotic medicinal products (e.g., clozapine and 
olanzapine) and protease inhibitors. 
Beta-blockers, clonidine, lithium salts or alcohol may either potentiate or weaken the 
blood-glucose-lowering effect of insulin. Pentamidine may cause hypoglycaemia, which may 
sometimes be followed by hyperglycaemia. 
In addition, under the influence of sympatholytic medicinal products such as beta-blockers, clonidine, 
guanethidine and reserpine, the signs of adrenergic counter-regulation may be reduced or absent. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions  
Lixisenatide is a peptide and is not metabolised by cytochrome P450. In in vitro studies, lixisenatide 
did not affect the activity of cytochrome P450 isozymes or human transporters tested. 
No pharmacokinetic interactions are known for insulin glargine. 
Effect of gastric emptying on oral medicinal products 
The delay of gastric emptying with lixisenatide may reduce the rate of absorption of orally 
administered medicinal products. Patients receiving medicinal products of either a narrow therapeutic 
ratio or medicinal products that require careful clinical monitoring should be followed closely, 
especially at the time of initiation of lixisenatide treatment. These medicinal products should be taken 
in a standardised way in relation to lixisenatide. If such medicinal products are to be administered with 
food, patients should be advised to, if possible, take them with a meal when lixisenatide is not 
administered. 
For oral medicinal products that are particularly dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy, 
such as antibiotics, patients should be advised to take those medicinal products at least 1 hour before 
or 4 hours after lixisenatide injection. 
Gastro-resistant formulations containing substances sensitive to stomach degradation, should be 
administered 1 hour before or 4 hours after lixisenatide injection.  
Paracetamol 
Paracetamol was used as a model medicinal product to evaluate the effect of lixisenatide on gastric 
emptying. Following administration of a single dose of paracetamol 1000 mg, paracetamol AUC and 
t1/2 were unchanged whatever the timing of its administration (before or after the lixisenatide 
injection). When administered 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, Cmax of paracetamol was 
decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median tmax was delayed by 2.0 and 1.75 hours, 
respectively. A further delay in tmax and a reduced Cmax of paracetamol have been predicted with the 
20 mcg maintenance dose. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No effects on paracetamol Cmax and tmax were observed when paracetamol was administered 1 hour 
before lixisenatide. 
Based on these results, no dose adjustment for paracetamol is required but the delayed tmax observed 
when paracetamol is administered 1-4 hours after lixisenatide should be taken into account when a 
rapid onset of action is required for efficacy. 
Oral contraceptives 
Following administration of a single dose of an oral contraceptive medicinal product (ethinylestradiol 
0.03 mg/levonorgestrel 0.15 mg) 1 hour before or 11 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the Cmax, AUC, 
t1/2 and tmax of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel were unchanged. 
Administration of the oral contraceptive 1 hour before or 4 hours after lixisenatide did not affect AUC 
and t1/2 of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel, whereas Cmax of ethinylestradiol was decreased by 52% 
and 39%, respectively and Cmax of levonorgestrel was decreased by 46% and 20%, respectively and 
median tmax was delayed by 1 to 3 hours. 
The reduction in Cmax is of limited clinical relevance and no dose adjustment for oral contraceptives is 
required. 
Atorvastatin 
When lixisenatide 20 mcg and atorvastatin 40 mg were co-administered in the morning for 6 days, the 
exposure to atorvastatin was not affected, while Cmax was decreased by 31% and tmax was delayed by 
3.25 hours. 
No such increase for tmax was observed when atorvastatin was administered in the evening and 
lixisenatide in the morning but the AUC and Cmax of atorvastatin were increased by 27% and 66%, 
respectively. 
These changes are not clinically relevant and, therefore, no dose adjustment for atorvastatin is required 
when co-administered with lixisenatide. 
Warfarin and other coumarin derivatives 
After concomitant administration of warfarin 25 mg with repeated dosing of lixisenatide 20 mcg, there 
were no effects on AUC or INR (International Normalised Ratio) while Cmax was reduced by 19% and 
tmax was delayed by 7 hours. 
Based on these results, no dose adjustment for warfarin is required when co-administered with 
lixisenatide; however, frequent monitoring of INR in patients on warfarin and/or coumarin derivatives 
is recommended at the time of initiation or ending of lixisenatide treatment. 
Digoxin 
After concomitant administration of lixisenatide 20 mcg and digoxin 0.25 mg at steady state, the AUC 
of digoxin was not affected. The tmax of digoxin was delayed by 1.5 hour and the Cmax was reduced by 
26%. 
Based on these results, no dose adjustment for digoxin is required when co-administered with 
lixisenatide. 
Ramipril 
After concomitant administration of lixisenatide 20 mcg and ramipril 5 mg during 6 days, the AUC of 
ramipril was increased by 21% while the Cmax was decreased by 63%. The AUC and Cmax of the active 
metabolite (ramiprilat) were not affected. The tmax of ramipril and ramiprilat were delayed by 
approximately 2.5 hours. 
Based on these results, no dose adjustment for ramipril is required when co-administered with 
lixisenatide. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suliqua is not recommended in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Pregnancy  
There is no clinical data on exposed pregnancies from controlled clinical studies with use of Suliqua, 
insulin glargine, or lixisenatide.  
A large amount of data on pregnant women (more than 1,000 pregnancy outcomes) with insulin 
glargine indicate no malformative nor feto/neonatal toxicity of insulin glargine. Animal data do not 
indicate reproductive toxicity with insulin glargine.  
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of lixisenatide in pregnant women. Studies with 
lixisenatide in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Suliqua is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding  
It is unknown whether insulin glargine or lixisenatide are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with 
Suliqua. 
Fertility  
Animal studies with lixisenatide or insulin glargine do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect 
to fertility.  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Suliqua has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive or use machines. However, the patient's 
ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycaemia or hyperglycaemia or, 
for example, as a result of visual impairment. This may constitute a risk in situations where these 
abilities are of special importance (e.g., driving a car or using machines). 
Patients should be advised to take precautions to avoid hypoglycaemia while driving and using 
machines. This is particularly important in those who have reduced or absent awareness of the warning 
symptoms of hypoglycaemia or have frequent episodes of hypoglycaemia. It should be considered 
whether it is advisable to drive or use machines in these circumstances. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile  
The most frequently reported adverse reactions during treatment with Suliqua were hypoglycaemia 
and gastrointestinal adverse reactions (see section 'Description of selected adverse reactions' below). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions  
The following related adverse reactions from clinical investigations are listed below by system organ 
class and in order of decreasing frequency (very common: ≥1/10; common: ≥1/100 to <1/10; 
uncommon: ≥1/1 000 to <1/100; rare: ≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000; very rare: <1/10 000; not known: cannot 
be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented 
in order of decreasing seriousness. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Adverse drug reactions reported  
System organ 
class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Nasopharyngitis 
Upper respiratory 
tract infection 
Urticaria  
Very common  Common 
Hypoglycaemia  
Rare 
Not Known 
Dizziness 
Headache  
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting  
Dyspepsia 
Abdominal pain 
Delayed gastric 
emptying 
Cholelithiasis 
Cholecystitis 
Injection site 
reactions 
Fatigue 
Cutaneous 
amyloidosis 
Lipodystrophy 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Hypoglycaemia  
The following table describes the rate of documented symptomatic hypoglycaemia (≤ 3.9 mmol/L) and 
severe hypoglycaemia for both Suliqua and the comparator***. 
Table 2: Documented symptomatic or severe hypoglycaemic adverse reactions  
Insulin naïve patients 
Switch from 
basal insulin 
Switch from GLP-1 
receptor agonist*** 
Suliqua 
Insulin 
glargine 
Lixisenatide  Suliqua 
Insulin 
glargine 
Suliqua 
GLP-1 
receptor 
agonist*** 
N 
469 
467 
233 
365 
365 
255 
256 
Documented 
symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia* 
Patients with event, 
120  
110  
15  
146  
155  
71 
6 
 n (%) 
(25.6%) 
(23.6%) 
(6.4%) 
(40.0%) 
(42.5%) 
(27.8%) 
(2.3%) 
1.44 
1.22 
0.34 
3.03 
4.22 
1.54 
0.08 
Events per patient-
year,  
n 
Severe 
hypoglycaemia**  
10 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Events per patient-
year,  
n 
0 
<0.01 
0 
0.02 
<0.01 
<0.01 
0 
* Documented symptomatic hypoglycaemia was an event during which typical symptoms of 
hypoglycaemia were accompanied by a measured plasma glucose concentration of ≤3.9 mmol/L. 
** Severe symptomatic hypoglycaemia was an event requiring assistance of another person to actively 
administer carbohydrate, glucagon, or other resuscitative actions. 
*** Liraglutide, exenatide BID (twice in a day) or extended release, dulaglutide or albiglutide 
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions (nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea) were frequently reported adverse 
reactions during the treatment period. In patients treated with Suliqua, the incidence of related nausea, 
diarrhoea and vomiting was 8.4%, 2.2% and 2.2%, respectively. Gastrointestinal adverse reactions 
were mostly mild and transient in nature.  
Immune system disorders 
Allergic reactions (urticaria) possibly related with Suliqua have been reported in 0.3% of patients. 
Cases of generalised allergic reaction including anaphylactic reaction and angioedema have been 
reported during marketed use of insulin glargine and lixisenatide.  
Immunogenicity  
Administration of Suliqua may cause formation of antibodies against insulin glargine and/or 
lixisenatide. 
The incidence of formation of anti-insulin glargine antibodies was 21% and 26.2%. In approximately 
93% of the patients, anti-insulin glargine antibodies showed cross-reactivity to human insulin. The 
incidence of formation of anti-lixisenatide antibodies was approximately 43%. Neither status for anti-
insulin glargine antibodies nor for anti-lixisenatide antibodies had a clinically relevant impact on 
safety or efficacy. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  
Lipodystrophy and cutaneous amyloidosis may occur at the injection site of insulins and delay local 
insulin absorption. Continuous rotation of the injection site within the given injection area may help to 
reduce or prevent these reactions (see section 4.4).  
Injection site reactions 
Some (1.7%) patients using insulin containing therapy, including Suliqua have experienced erythema, 
local oedema, and pruritus at the site of injection.  
Heart rate 
Increase in heart rate has been reported with GLP-1 receptor agonist use and a transient increase was 
also observed in some studies with lixisenatide. No increase in mean heart rate was seen in all phase 3 
studies with Suliqua. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
Hypoglycaemia and gastrointestinal adverse reactions may develop if a patient is dosed with more 
Suliqua than required. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mild episodes of hypoglycaemia can usually be treated with oral carbohydrates. Adjustments in dose 
of the medicinal product, meal patterns, or physical activity may be needed. 
More severe episodes of hypoglycaemia with coma, seizure, or neurologic impairment may be treated 
with glucagon or concentrated intravenous glucose. Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation 
may be necessary because hypoglycaemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery. 
In case of gastrointestinal adverse reactions, appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated 
according to the patient’s clinical signs and symptoms. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs used in diabetes, insulins and analogues for injection, long-acting. 
ATC Code: A10AE54. 
Mechanism of action  
Suliqua combines two active substances with complementary mechanisms of action to improve 
glycaemic control: insulin glargine, a basal insulin analogue (mainly targeting fasting plasma glucose), 
and lixisenatide, a GLP-1 receptor agonist (mainly targeting postprandial glucose). 
Insulin glargine  
The primary activity of insulin, including insulin glargine, is regulation of glucose metabolism. Insulin 
and its analogues lower blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake, especially by skeletal 
muscle and fat, and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production. Insulin inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis 
and enhances protein synthesis.  
Lixisenatide  
Lixisenatide is a GLP-1 receptor agonist. The GLP-1 receptor is the target for native GLP-1, an 
endogenous incretin hormone that potentiates glucose-dependent insulin secretion from beta cells and 
suppresses glucagon from alpha cells in the pancreas.  
Lixisenatide stimulates insulin secretion when blood glucose is increased but not at normoglycaemia, 
which limits the risk of hypoglycaemia. In parallel, glucagon secretion is suppressed. In case of 
hypoglycaemia, the rescue mechanism of glucagon secretion is preserved. A preprandial injection of 
Lixisenatide also slows gastric emptying thereby reducing the rate at which meal-derived glucose is 
absorbed and appears in the circulation. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Suliqua 
The combination of insulin glargine and lixisenatide has no impact on the pharmacodynamics of 
insulin glargine. The impact of the combination of insulin glargine and lixisenatide on the 
pharmacodynamics of lixisenatide has not been studied in phase 1 studies.  
Consistent with a relatively constant concentration/time profile of insulin glargine over 24 hours with 
no pronounced peak when administered alone, the glucose utilisation rate/time profile was similar 
when given in the insulin glargine/lixisenatide combination.  
The time course of action of insulins, including Suliqua, may vary between individuals and within the 
same individual.  
Insulin glargine  
In clinical studies with insulin glargine (100 units/ml) the glucose-lowering effect on a molar basis 
(i.e., when given at the same doses) of intravenous insulin glargine is approximately the same as that 
for human insulin.  
Lixisenatide  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a 28-day placebo-controlled study in patients with type 2 diabetes 5 to 20 mcg lixisenatide resulted 
in a statistically significant decreases in postprandial blood glucose after breakfast, lunch and dinner. 
Gastric emptying  
Following a standardised labelled test meal, in the study referred to above, it was confirmed that 
lixisenatide slows gastric emptying, thereby reducing the rate of postprandial glucose absorption. The 
slowing effect of gastric emptying was maintained at the end of the study.  
Clinical efficacy and safety  
The safety and effectiveness of Suliqua on glycaemic control were evaluated in three randomised 
clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus:  
• 
• 
• 
Add-on to metformin [insulin naïve] 
Switch from basal insulin 
Switch from GLP-1 receptor agonist  
In each of the active-controlled clinical studies, treatment with Suliqua produced clinically and 
statistically significant improvements in haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c). 
Reaching lower HbA1c levels and achieving greater HbA1c reduction did not increase rates of 
hypoglycaemia with combination treatment versus insulin glargine alone (see section 4.8). 
In the Add-on to metformin clinical study the treatment was started at 10 dose steps (10 units insulin 
glargine and 5 mcg lixisenatide). In the switch from basal insulin clinical study the starting dose was 
20 dose steps (20 units insulin glargine and 10 mcg lixisenatide) or 30 dose steps, (30 units insulin 
glargine and 10 mcg lixisenatide), see section 4.2, depending on the previous insulin dose. In both 
studies the dose was titrated once weekly, based on fasting self-measured plasma glucose values. 
Add-on to metformin [insulin naïve]  
Clinical study in patients with Type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled on an oral anti-diabetic (OAD) 
treatment 
A total of 1170 patients with type 2 diabetes were randomised in an open label, 30-week, active-
controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Suliqua compared to the individual components, 
insulin glargine (100 units/ml) and lixisenatide (20 mcg).  
Patients with type 2 diabetes, treated with metformin alone or metformin and a second OAD treatment 
that could be a sulfonylurea or a glinide or a SGLT-2 inhibitor or a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) 
inhibitor, and who were not adequately controlled with this treatment (HbA1c range 7.5% to 10% for 
patients previously treated with metformin alone and 7% to 9% for patients previously treated with 
metformin and a second oral anti-diabetic treatment) entered a run-in period for 4 weeks. During this 
run-in phase metformin treatment was optimised and any other OADs were discontinued. At the end 
of the run-in period, patients who remained inadequately controlled (HbA1c between 7% and 10%) 
were randomised to either Suliqua, insulin glargine or lixisenatide. Of the 1479 patients who started 
the run-in phase, 1170 were randomised. The main reasons for not entering the randomised phase were 
FPG value >13.9 mmol/L and HbA1c value <7% or >10% at the end of the run-in phase 
The randomised type 2 diabetes population had the following characteristics: Mean age was 58.4 years 
with the majority (57.1%) being aged of 50 to 64 years, and 50.6 percent were male. The mean BMI at 
baseline was 31.7 kg/m2 with 63.4% of patients having a BMI ≥30 kg/m2. The mean duration of 
diabetes was approximately 9 years. Metformin was a mandatory background therapy and 58% of 
patients received a second OAD at screening, being a sulfonylurea in 54% of patients. 
At week 30, Suliqua provided statistically significant improvement in HbA1c (p-value <0.0001) 
compared to the individual components. In a pre-specified analysis of this primary endpoint, the 
differences observed were consistent with regard to baseline HbA1c (<8% or ≥8%) or baseline OAD 
use (metformin alone or metformin plus second OAD). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See table and figure below for the other endpoints in the study.  
Table 3: Results at 30 weeks - Add-on to metformin clinical study (mITT population) 
Number of subjects (mITT)  
HbA1c (%)  
Baseline (mean; post run-in phase)  
End of study (mean)  
 LS change from baseline (mean) 
Difference vs. insulin glargine 
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Difference vs. lixisenatide  
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Number of patients (%) reaching 
HbA1c <7% at week 30*  
Fasting plasma glucose (mmol/L)  
Baseline (mean) 
End of study (mean) 
LS change from baseline (mean)  
LS difference versus glargine (mean) 
[95% confidence interval] 
(p-value) 
LS difference versus lixisenatide 
(mean)  
[95% confidence interval] 
(p-value) 
2 hour PPG (mmol/L)** 
Baseline (mean) 
End of study (mean) 
LS change from baseline  
LS difference versus glargine (mean) 
[95% confidence interval] 
LS difference versus lixisenatide 
(mean)  
[95% confidence interval] 
Mean body weight (kg)  
Baseline (mean)  
LS change from baseline (mean) 
Comparison versus insulin glargine  
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Comparison versus lixisenatide  
[95% confidence interval]*  
Number (%) of patients achieving 
HbA1c <7% with no body weight 
gain at week 30  
Suliqua 
Insulin glargine 
Lixisenatide 
468 
8.1 
6.5 
-1.6 
466 
8.1 
6.8 
-1.3 
-0.3 
[-0.4, -0.2] 
(<0.0001) 
345 (74%) 
277 (59%) 
9.88 
6.32 
-3.46 
9.75 
6.53  
-3.27 
-0.19 
[-0.420 to 0.038] 
(0.1017) 
233 
8.1 
7.3 
-0.9 
-0.8 
[-0.9, -0.7] 
(<0.0001) 
77 (33%) 
9.79 
8.27  
-1.50 
-1.96 
[-2.246 to -1.682] 
(<0.0001) 
15.19  
9.15  
-5.68  
14.61 
11.35  
-3.31 
14.72  
9.99  
-4.58 
-2.38 
(-2.79 to -1.96) 
-1.10   
(-1.63 to -0.57) 
90.8 
-2.3 
2.01 
[1.4 to 2.6] 
65  
(27.9%) 
89.4 
-0.3 
89.8 
1.1 
-1.4 
[-1.9 to -0.9] 
(<0.0001) 
202  
(43.2%) 
117  
(25.1%) 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportion difference vs. insulin 
glargine  
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Proportion difference vs. lixisenatide 
[95% confidence interval]*  
Insulin glargine daily dose 
LS insulin dose at week 30 (mean)  
*Not included in the pre-specified step-down testing procedure 
**2 hour PPG minus the pre-meal glucose value 
39.8 
18.1 
[12.2 to 24.0] 
(<0.0001) 
15.2 
[8.1 to 22.4] 
40.5 
NA 
Figure 1: Mean HbA1c (%) by visit during 30-week randomised treatment period - mITT 
population 
Patients in the Suliqua group reported a statistically significantly greater decrease in the average 
7-point self-monitored plasma glucose (SMPG) profile from baseline to Week 30 (-3.35 mmol/L) 
compared to patients in the insulin glargine group (-2.66 mmol/L; difference -0.69 mmol/L) and 
patients in the lixisenatide group (-1.95 mmol/L; difference -1.40 mmol/L) (p<0.0001 for both 
comparisons). At all time points, 30-week mean plasma glucose values were lower in the Suliqua 
group than in both the insulin glargine group and the lixisenatide group, with the only exception of the 
pre-breakfast value which was similar between the Suliqua group and the insulin glargine group.   
Switch from basal insulin  
Clinical study in patients with Type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled on basal insulin 
A total of 736 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in a randomised, 30-week, active-controlled, 
open-label, 2-treatment arm, parallel-group, multicentre study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
Suliqua compared to insulin glargine (100 units/ml).  
Patients screened had type 2 diabetes were treated with basal insulin for at least 6 months, receiving a 
stable daily dose of between 15 and 40 U alone or combined with 1 or 2 OADs (metformin or a 
sulfonylurea or a glinide or a SGLT-2 inhibitor or a DPP-4 inhibitor), had an HbA1c between 7.5% 
and 10% (mean HbA1c of 8.5% at screening) and a FPG less than or equal to 10.0 mmol/L or 
11.1 mmol/L depending on their previous anti-diabetic treatment. 
After screening, eligible patients (n=1018) entered a 6 week run-in phase where patients remained on 
or switched to insulin glargine, in case they took another basal insulin, and had their insulin dose 
titrated/stabilised while continuing metformin (if previously taken). Any other OADs were 
discontinued.  
At the end of the run-in period, patients with an HbA1c between 7 and 10%, FPG ≤7.77 mmol/L and 
insulin glargine daily dose of 20 to 50 units, were randomised to either Suliqua (n=367) or insulin 
glargine (n=369). 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This type 2 diabetes population had the following characteristics: mean age was 60.0 years with the 
majority (56.3%) being aged of 50 to 64 years, and 53.3 percent were female. The mean BMI at 
baseline was 31.1 kg/m2 with 57.3% of patients having a BMI ≥30 kg/m2. The mean diabetes duration 
was approximately 12 years and the mean duration of previous basal insulin treatment was 
approximately 3 years. At screening 64.4% of patients were receiving insulin glargine as basal insulin 
and 95% received at least 1 concomitant OAD.  
At week 30, Suliqua provided statistically significant improvement in HbA1c (p-value <0.0001) 
compared to insulin glargine.  
See table and figure below for the other endpoints in the study. 
Table 4: Results at 30 weeks - Study Type 2 diabetes uncontrolled on basal insulin mITT 
population 
Number of subjects (mITT) 
HbA1c (%) 
Baseline (mean; post run-in phase)   
End of treatment (mean)  
LS change from baseline (mean)   
Difference versus insulin glargine 
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Patients [n (%)] reaching HbA1c <7% at 
week 30*  
Fasting plasma glucose (mmol/L)  
Baseline (mean) 
End of study (mean) 
LS change from baseline (mean) 
Difference versus insulin glargine 
[95% confidence interval] 
2 hour PPG (mmol/L)** 
Baseline (mean) 
End of study (mean) 
LS change from baseline (mean) 
LS difference versus glargine (mean) 
[95% confidence interval] 
Mean body weight (kg)  
Baseline (mean)  
LS change from baseline (mean) 
Comparison versus insulin glargine  
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Suliqua 
Insulin glargine 
366 
8.1 
6.9 
-1.1 
365 
8.1 
7.5 
-0.6 
-0.5 
[-0.6, -0.4] 
(<0.0001) 
201 (54.9%) 
108 (29.6%) 
7.33 
6.78 
-0.35 
14.85 
9.91  
-4.72  
87.8 
-0.7 
0.11 
(-0.21 to 0.43) 
7.32 
6.69 
-0.46 
14.97  
13.41  
-1.39 
-3.33 
(-3.89 to -2.77) 
87.1 
0.7 
-1.4 
[-1.8 to -0.9] 
(<0.0001) 
Number (%) of patients achieving HbA1c< 
7% with no body weight gain at week 30 
125  
(34.2%) 
49  
(13.4%) 
Proportion difference versus insulin glargine  
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Insulin glargine daily dose 
20.8 
[15.0 to 26.7] 
(<0.0001) 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline (mean)  
Endpoint (mean)  
LS insulin dose change at week 30 (mean) 
*Not included in the pre-specified step-down testing procedure 
**2 hour PPG minus the pre-meal glucose value 
35.0 
46.7 
10.6 
35.2 
46.7 
10.9 
Figure 2:  Mean HbA1c (%) by visit during 30-week randomised treatment period - mITT 
population  
Switch from GLP-1 receptor agonist 
Clinical study in patients with Type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled on GLP-1 receptor agonist 
The efficacy and safety of Suliqua compared to unchanged pre-trial GLP-1 receptor agonist treatment 
were studied in a 26-week, randomised, open-label trial. The trial included 514 patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled (HbA1c level of 7% to 9% both inclusive) while treated for 
at least 4 months with liraglutide or exenatide or for at least 6 months with dulaglutide, albiglutide or 
exenatide extended release, all at maximal tolerated dose, and metformin alone or in combination with 
pioglitazone, a SGLT-2 inhibitor or both. Eligible patients were randomised to either receive Suliqua 
or to continue their previous GLP-1 receptor agonist both on top of their previous oral anti-diabetic 
treatment.  
At screening, 59.7% of the subjects received a once or twice-daily GLP-1 receptor agonist and 40.3% 
received a once weekly GLP-1 receptor agonist. At screening, 6.6% of the subjects received 
pioglitazone, and 10.1% a SGLT-2 inhibitor in combination with metformin. The study population had 
the following characteristics: mean age was 59.6 years, 52.5% of the subjects were male. The mean 
duration of diabetes was 11 years, the mean duration of previous GLP-1 receptor agonist treatment 
was 1.9 years, the mean BMI was approximately 32.9 kg/m2, mean eGFR was 87.3 ml/min/1.73 m2 
and 90.7% of patients had an eGFR ≥60 ml/min.  
At week 26, Suliqua provided statistically significant improvement in HbA1c (p <0.0001). A pre-
specified analysis by GLP-1 receptor agonist subtype (once/twice daily or weekly formulation) used at 
screening showed that HbA1c change at week 26 was similar for each subgroup and consistent with 
the primary analysis for the overall population. The mean daily dose of Suliqua at Week 26 was 43.5 
dose steps. 
See table and figure below for the other endpoints in the study.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Results at 26 weeks - Study Type 2 diabetes uncontrolled on GLP-1 receptor agonist 
mITT population  
Number of subjects (mITT)   
HbA1c (%)  
Baseline (mean; post run-in phase) 
End of treatment (mean)                    
LS change from baseline (mean) 
Difference versus GLP-1 receptor agonist   
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Patients [n (%)] reaching HbA1c <7% at 
week 26  
Proportion difference (95% confidence 
interval) vs GLP-1 receptor agonist  
p-value 
Fasting plasma glucose (mmol/L)  
Baseline (mean) 
End of study (mean) 
LS change from baseline (mean) 
Difference versus GLP-1 receptor agonist   
[95% confidence interval] 
(p-value) 
2 hour PPG (mmol/L)**    
Baseline (mean) 
End of study (mean) 
LS change from baseline (mean) 
LS difference versus GLP-1 receptor agonist 
(mean)  
[95% confidence interval]                                  
(p-value)  
Mean body weight (kg) 
Baseline (mean) 
LS change from baseline (mean) 
Comparison versus GLP-1 receptor agonist 
[95% confidence interval]  
(p-value) 
Suliqua 
252 
7.8 
6.7 
-1.0 
GLP-1 receptor 
agonist*  
253 
7.8 
7.4 
-0.4 
-0.6 [-0.8, -0.5] 
 (<0.0001) 
156 (61.9%) 
65 (25.7%) 
36.1% (28.1% to 44%) 
<.0001 
9.06 
6.86 
-2.28 
13.60 
9.68 
-4.0 
93.01 
1.89 
9.45 
8.66 
-0.60 
-1.67 
(-2.00 to -1.34) 
(<0.0001) 
13.78 
12.59 
-1.11 
-2.9 
(-3.42 to -2.28) 
(<0.0001)  
95.49 
-1.14 
-3.03 
(2.417 to 3.643) 
(<0.0001) 
* Liraglutide, exenatide BID or extended release, dulaglutide or albiglutide 
**2 hour PPG minus the pre-meal glucose value 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Mean HbA1c (%) by visit during 26-week randomised treatment period- mITT 
population  
Concomitant use of Suliqua with SGLT-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i)  
The concomitant use of Suliqua with SGLT2i is supported by subgroup analyses from three phase 3 
randomised clinical studies (119 patients on the insulin glargine/lixisenatide fixed ratio combination 
(FRC) who also received SGLT2i).  
One study conducted in Europe and North America included data from 26 patients (10.1%) who 
concomitantly received insulin glargine/lixisenatide FRC, metformin and an SGLT2i. Two more phase 
3 studies from the dedicated Japanese clinical development program performed in patients not 
reaching sufficient glycaemic control on OADs provided data for 59 patients (22.7%) and 34 patients 
(21.1%), respectively, who concomitantly received SGLT2i and insulin glargine/lixisenatide FRC. 
The data from these 3 studies show that initiation of Suliqua in patients inadequately controlled with a 
treatment including SGLT2i leads to improved change in HbA1c versus the comparators (insulin 
glargine, lixisenatide, liraglutide, exenatide BID or extended release, dulaglutide or albiglutide). There 
was no increased risk of hypoglycaemia and no relevant differences in the overall safety profile in 
SGLT2i users compared to non-users. 
Cardiovascular outcome studies  
The cardiovascular safety of insulin glargine and lixisenatide has been established in the ORIGIN and 
ELIXA clinical studies, respectively. No dedicated cardiovascular outcome trial has been conducted 
with Suliqua. 
Insulin glargine  
The Outcome Reduction with Initial Glargine Intervention trial (i.e., ORIGIN) was an open-label, 
randomised, 12,537 patient study that compared insulin glargine 100 Units to standard care on the time 
to first occurrence of a major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE). MACE was defined as the 
composite of cardiovascular (CV) death, nonfatal myocardial infarction and nonfatal stroke. The 
median duration of study follow-up was 6.2 years. The incidence of MACE was similar between 
insulin glargine 100 Units and standard care in ORIGIN [Hazard Ratio (95% CI) for MACE; 1.02 
(0.94, 1.11)].  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lixisenatide  
The ELIXA study was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational study that 
evaluated CV outcomes during treatment with lixisenatide in patients (n=6068) with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus after a recent Acute Coronary Syndrome. The primary composite efficacy endpoint was the 
time to the first occurrence of any of the following events: CV death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, 
non-fatal stroke, or hospitalisation for unstable angina.  The median duration of study follow-up was 
25.8 and 25.7 months in the lixisenatide group and the placebo group, respectively.  
The incidence of the primary endpoint was similar in the lixisenatide (13.4%) and placebo (13.2%) 
groups: the hazard ratio (HR) for lixisenatide versus placebo was 1.017, with an associated 2-sided 
95% confidence interval (CI) of 0.886 to 1.168.  
Paediatric population  
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Suliqua in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The insulin glargine/lixisenatide ratio has no relevant impact on the PK of insulin glargine and 
lixisenatide in Suliqua.  
After subcutaneous administration of insulin glargine/lixisenatide combinations to patients with type 1 
diabetes, insulin glargine showed no pronounced peak. Exposure to insulin glargine following 
administration of the insulin glargine/lixisenatide combination was 86-88 % compared to 
administration of separate simultaneous injections of insulin glargine and lixisenatide. This difference 
is not considered clinically relevant. 
After subcutaneous administration of insulin glargine/lixisenatide combinations to patients with type 1 
diabetes, the median tmax of lixisenatide was in the range of 2.5 to 3.0 hours. AUC was comparable 
while there was a small decrease in Cmax of lixisenatide of 22-34% compared with separate 
simultaneous administration of insulin glargine and lixisenatide, which is not likely to be clinically 
significant.  
There are no clinically relevant differences in the rate of absorption when lixisenatide as monotherapy 
is administered subcutaneously in the abdomen, deltoid, or thigh.  
Distribution  
The apparent volume of distribution of insulin glargine after subcutaneous administration of the 
insulin glargine/lixisenatide combinations (Vss/F) is approximately 1700 L. 
Lixisenatide has a low level (55%) of binding to human proteins. The apparent volume of distribution 
of lixisenatide after subcutaneous administration of insulin glargine/lixisenatide combinations (Vz/F) 
is approximately 100 L.  
Biotransformation  
A metabolism study in diabetic patients who received insulin glargine alone indicates that insulin 
glargine is rapidly metabolised at the carboxyl terminus of the B chain to form two active metabolites, 
M1 (21A-Gly-insulin) and M2 (21A-Gly-des-30B-Thr-insulin). In plasma, the principal circulating 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compound is the metabolite M1. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic findings indicate that the 
effect of the subcutaneous injection with insulin glargine is principally based on exposure to M1.  
As a peptide, lixisenatide is eliminated through glomerular filtration, followed by tubular reabsorption 
and subsequent metabolic degradation, resulting in smaller peptides and amino acids, which are 
reintroduced in the protein metabolism. 
Elimination 
After single subcutaneous administration of the insulin glargine/lixisenatide combination, the mean 
apparent clearance (CL/F) of insulin glargine was approximately 120 L/h. 
After multiple-dose subcutaneous administration of Lixisenatide in patients with type 2 diabetes, mean 
terminal half-life was approximately 3 hours and the mean apparent clearance (CL/F) about 35 L/h. 
Special populations  
Renal impairment  
In subjects with mild (creatinine clearance calculated by the Cockcroft-Gault formula 60-90 ml/min), 
moderate (creatinine clearance 30-60 ml/min) and severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
15-30 ml/min) AUC of lixisenatide was increased by 46%, 51% and 87%, respectively.  
Insulin glargine has not been studied in patients with renal impairment. In patients with renal 
impairment, however, insulin requirements may be diminished due to reduced insulin metabolism.  
Hepatic impairment  
As lixisenatide is cleared primarily by the kidney, no pharmacokinetic study has been performed in 
patients with acute or chronic hepatic impairment. Hepatic dysfunction is not expected to affect the 
pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide. 
Insulin glargine has not been studied in diabetes patients with hepatic impairment. In patients with 
hepatic impairment, insulin requirements may be diminished due to reduced capacity for 
gluconeogenesis and reduced insulin metabolism. 
Age, race, gender and body weight  
Insulin glargine  
Effect of age, race, and gender on the pharmacokinetics of insulin glargine has not been evaluated. In 
controlled clinical studies in adults with insulin glargine (100 units/ml), subgroup analyses based on 
age, race, and gender did not show differences in safety and efficacy.  
Lixisenatide  
Age has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide. In a pharmacokinetic 
study in elderly non-diabetic subjects, administration of lixisenatide 20 mcg resulted in a mean 
increase of lixisenatide AUC by 29% in the elderly population (11 subjects aged 65 to 74 years and 
7 subjects aged ≥75 years) compared to 18 subjects aged 18 to 45 years, likely related to reduced renal 
function in the older age group.  
Ethnic origin had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide based on the 
results of pharmacokinetic studies in Caucasian, Japanese and Chinese subjects. 
Gender has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide  
Body weight has no clinically relevant effect on lixisenatide AUC.  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity  
In the presence of anti-lixisenatide antibodies, lixisenatide exposure and variability in exposure are 
markedly increased regardless of the dose level. 
Paediatric population  
No studies have been performed with Suliqua in children and adolescents below 18 years of age. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
No  animal studies  have  been  conducted  with the  combination  of  insulin  glargine  and lixisenatide  to 
evaluate repeated dose toxicity, carcinogenesis, genotoxicity, or toxicity to reproduction. 
Insulin glargine  
Non-clinical data for insulin glargine reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional 
studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, toxicity to 
reproduction. 
Lixisenatide 
In 2-year subcutaneous carcinogenicity studies, non-lethal C-cell thyroid tumours were seen in rats 
and mice and are considered to be caused by a non-genotoxic GLP-1 receptor-mediated mechanism to 
which rodents are particularly sensitive. C-cell hyperplasia and adenoma were seen at all doses in rats 
and a no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) could be not defined. In mice, these effects occurred 
at exposure ratio above 9.3-fold when compared to human exposure at the therapeutic dose. No C-cell 
carcinoma was observed in mice and C-cell carcinoma occurred in rats with an exposure ratio relative 
to exposure at human therapeutic dose of about 900-fold.  
In 2-year subcutaneous carcinogenicity study in mice, 3 cases of adenocarcinoma in the endometrium 
were seen in the mid dose group with a statistically significant increase, corresponding to an exposure 
ratio of 97-fold. No treatment-related effect was demonstrated. 
Animal studies did not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to male and female fertility in rats. 
Reversible testicular and epididymal lesions were seen in dogs treated with lixisenatide. No related 
effect on spermatogenesis was seen in healthy men. 
In embryo-foetal development studies, malformations, growth retardation, ossification retardation and 
skeletal effects were observed in rats at all doses (5-fold exposure ratio compared to human exposure) 
and in rabbits at high doses (32-fold exposure ratio compared to human exposure) of lixisenatide. In 
both species, there was a slight maternal toxicity consisting of low food consumption and reduced 
body weight. Neonatal growth was reduced in male rats exposed to high doses of lixisenatide during 
late gestation and lactation, with a slightly increased pup mortality observed. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Glycerol 85% 
Methionine 
Metacresol 
Zinc chloride 
Concentrated hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products.  
6.3  Shelf-life 
Before first use  
3 years.  
After first use  
28 days. 
After first use: Store below 25°C. Do not refrigerate. Do not freeze. 
Do not store with attached needle. 
Store pen away from direct heat or direct light. The pen cap must be put back on the pen after each 
injection in order to protect from light.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).  
Do not freeze or place next to the freezer compartment or a freezer pack.  
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I colourless glass cartridge with a black plunger (bromobutyl rubber) and a flanged cap 
(aluminium) with inserted laminated sealing disks (bromobutyl rubber on the medicinal product side 
and polyisoprene on the outside) containing 3 ml of solution. Each cartridge is assembled into a 
disposable pen.  
Packs of 3, 5 and 10 pre-filled pens. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Before first use, the pen must be taken out of the refrigerator and stored below 25°C for 1 to 2 hours.  
The cartridge should be inspected before use. It must only be used if the solution is clear, colourless, 
with no solid particles visible, and if it is of water-like consistency.  
Suliqua must not be mixed with any other insulin or diluted. Mixing or diluting can change its 
time/action profile and mixing can cause precipitation.  
A new needle must always be attached before each use. Needles must not be re-used. The patient 
should discard the needle after each injection. Needles are not included in the pack. 
In the event of blocked needles patients must follow the instructions described in the “Instructions for 
Use” accompanying the package leaflet. 
Empty pens must never be reused and must be properly discarded.  
To prevent the possible transmission of disease, each pen must be used by one patient only.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The label must always be checked before each injection to avoid medication errors between Suliqua 
and other injectable anti-diabetic medicinal products, including the 2 different pens of Suliqua (see 
section 4.4).  
Before using Suliqua, the instructions for use included in the package leaflet must be read carefully.  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
82 avenue Raspail 
94250 Gentilly 
France 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/16/1157/001 
EU/1/16/1157/002 
EU/1/16/1157/003 
EU/1/16/1157/004 
EU/1/16/1157/005 
EU/1/16/1157/006 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/ RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 January 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 22 November 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCES AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCES AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substances  
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Brueningstrasse 50 
Industriepark Höchst 
65926 Frankfurt am Main 
GERMANY 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Brueningstrasse 50 
Industriepark Höchst 
65926 Frankfurt am Main 
GERMANY 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Suliqua in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree the content and format of the educational materials for Suliqua, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The educational materials are aimed at increasing awareness about the two available strengths of 
the product and at minimising the risk of medication errors including mix-ups between the 
different strengths of the product. 
The MAH shall ensure that, in each Member State where Suliqua is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals who are expected to prescribe, dispense and patients who are expected to use Suliqua, 
have access to/are provided with the following educational package: 
•  Healthcare Professional Guide; 
•  Patient Guide. 
The Healthcare Professional Guide shall contain the following key messages: 
•  Provide patients with the patient guide prior to prescribing or dispensing Suliqua. 
•  Ensure that your patients and their caretakers are adequately informed on how to use insulin 
glargine/lixisenatide. 
•  Suliqua is supplied in pre-filled pen and must only be used with this device; healthcare 
professionals must never use a syringe to withdraw insulin glargine/lixisenatide from pre-
filled pen or dosing errors and serious harm can result. 
•  Suliqua is available in two pre-filled pens containing different strengths of lixisenatide, and 
different dose ranges: 
  Both pre-filled pens contain insulin glargine in a strength of 100 units/ml 
  Suliqua 10-40 pen allows daily doses between 10 and 40 dose steps of Suliqua to be 
given (strength: insulin glargine 100 units/ml and lixisenatide 50 mcg/ml; dose range: 
10 to 40 units of insulin glargine in combination with 5 to 20 mcg lixisenatide) 
  Suliqua 30-60 pen allows daily doses between 30 and 60 dose steps of Suliqua to be 
given (strength: insulin glargine 100 units/ml and lixisenatide 33 mcg/ml; dose range: 
30 to 60 units insulin glargine in combination with 10 to 20 mcg lixisenatide) 
•  The prescription must state the dose range and strength of the Suliqua pre-filled pen and the 
number of dose steps to be administered.  
•  The pharmacist should clarify with the prescriber any incomplete prescription. 
•  Explain to your patient that: 
  You are prescribing a number of dose steps which corresponds to a set number of 
units of insulin plus a fixed amount lixisenatide 
  For Suliqua, one dose step always contains one unit of insulin, regardless of the 
Suliqua pre-filled pen being used (10-40 pen or 30-60 pen) 
  The dose counter of the pen device shows the number of dose steps to be injected, 
• 
If the patient has been transferred from a different pre-filled pen device, highlight the 
differences in design between the two devices (focus on colour differentiation, warning 
statements on carton/label and other safety design features such as tactile elements on the pre-
filled pen).  
•  Explain what the patient should anticipate regarding dysglycaemia and potential adverse 
reactions. 
•  Pharmacists are encouraged to check that patients and caretakers are able to read the strength 
of Suliqua, the dose range of the pre-filled pen and the dose counter of the pre-filled pen 
before dispensing insulin glargine/lixisenatide. Pharmacists should also check that patients 
have been trained on how to use the pen.  
•  Patients who are blind or with poor vision must be instructed to always get assistance from 
another person who has good vision and is trained in using insulin glargine/lixisenatide pen 
device. 
•  Tell patients to closely monitor their blood sugar levels when starting insulin 
glargine/lixisenatide which contains insulin glargine and a non-insulin active substance 
(lixisenatide).  
•  A reminder on the need to report all medication errors with Suliqua will be part of the 
healthcare professional guide. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
The Patient Guide shall contain the following key messages: 
•  Read the instructions in your package leaflet carefully before using Suliqua. 
•  Suliqua is supplied in pre-filled pen and must only be used with this device; patients, carers 
and healthcare professionals must never use a syringe to withdraw insulin glargine/lixisenatide 
from pre-filled pen or dosing errors and serious harm can result. 
•  Suliqua is available in two pre-filled pens containing two different strengths of lixisenatide, 
and different dose ranges: 
  Both pre-filled pens contain insulin glargine in a strength of 100 units/ml  
  Suliqua 10-40 pen allows daily doses between 10 and 40 dose steps of Suliqua to be 
given (strength: insulin glargine 100 units/ml and lixisenatide 50 mcg/ml; dose range: 
10 to 40 units of insulin glargine in combination with 5 to 20 mcg lixisenatide) 
  Suliqua 30-60 pen allows daily doses between 30 and 60 dose steps of Suliqua to be 
given (strength: insulin glargine 100 units/ml and lixisenatide 33 mcg/ml; dose range: 
30 to 60 units insulin glargine in combination with 10 to 20 mcg lixisenatide) 
•  The prescription should mention the pre-filled pen type you need (Suliqua 10-40 pen or 
30-60 pen) and the number of dose steps to be injected. 
•  The Pharmacist should clarify with the prescriber any incomplete prescription. 
•  One dose step contains one unit of insulin glargine plus a fixed amount of lixisenatide. Before 
you use insulin glargine/lixisenatide, be clear on how many dose steps you require. Your 
healthcare professional will give you this information. 
•  For Suliqua, one dose step always contains one unit of insulin, regardless of the Suliqua 
pre-filled pen being used (10-40 pen or 30-60 pen). 
•  Your healthcare professional will explain the design and features of your Suliqua pen, 
including how the dose counter of the pre-filled pen device shows the number of dose steps to 
be injected. 
•  During the switch to this type of combination medicine and in the weeks after the switch you 
should measure your blood sugar levels more frequently.  
• 
If you have any questions about your treatment speak to your healthcare professional.  
•  A reminder on the need to report all medication errors with Suliqua will be part of patient 
guide. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
insulin glargine + lixisenatide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pen contains 300 units of insulin glargine and 150 micrograms lixisenatide in 3 ml solution. 
Each ml contains 100 units of insulin glargine and 50 micrograms lixisenatide. 
Each dose step contains 1 unit of insulin glargine and 0.5 micrograms of lixisenatide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
glycerol 85%, methionine, metacresol, zinc chloride, concentrated hydrochloric acid and sodium 
hydroxide (for pH adjustment), water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen (SoloStar) 
3 x 3 ml pens 
5 x 3 ml pens 
10 x 3 ml pens 
10-40 dose steps (1 dose step = 1 unit of insulin glargine + 0.5 micrograms of lixisenatide) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Open here 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Use only clear, colourless solution. 
For single patient use only. 
Use only in this pen. 
Always use a new needle. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP 
After first use: use within 28 days 
First use on:    /    /    /     
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Before first use: 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze or place next to the freezer compartment or a freezer pack.  
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
After first use: 
Store below 25°C. Do not refrigerate. Do not freeze. 
Do not store with attached needle. 
Store pen away from direct heat or direct light. The pen cap must be put back on the pen after each 
injection in order to protect from light.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
82 avenue Raspail 
94250 Gentilly 
France 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1157/001 
EU/1/16/1157/002 
EU/1/16/1157/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Suliqua 10 - 40 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PEN LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 mcg/ml solution for injection 
insulin glargine + lixisenatide 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
3 ml  
6. 
OTHER  
10-40 dose steps  
SoloStar 
Always use a new needle 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 33 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
insulin glargine + lixisenatide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pen contains 300 units of insulin glargine and 100 micrograms lixisenatide in 3 ml solution. 
Each ml contains 100 units of insulin glargine and 33 micrograms lixisenatide. 
Each dose step contains 1 unit of insulin glargine and 0.33 micrograms of lixisenatide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
glycerol 85%, methionine, metacresol, zinc chloride, concentrated hydrochloric acid and sodium 
hydroxide (for pH adjustment), water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled pen (SoloStar) 
3 x 3 ml pens 
5 x 3 ml pens  
10 x 3 ml pens 
30-60 dose steps (1 dose step = 1 unit of insulin glargine + 0.33 micrograms of lixisenatide) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Open here 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Use only clear, colourless solution. 
For single patient use only. 
Use only in this pen. 
Always use a new needle. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP 
After first use: use within 28 days 
First use on:    /    /    /     
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Before first use: 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze or place next to the freezer compartment or a freezer pack.  
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
After first use: 
Store below 25°C. Do not refrigerate. Do not freeze. 
Do not store with attached needle. 
Store pen away from direct heat or direct light. The pen cap must be put back on the pen after each 
injection in order to protect from light.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
82 avenue Raspail 
94250 Gentilly 
France 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1157/003 
EU/1/16/1157/004 
EU/1/16/1157/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Suliqua 30-60 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PEN LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Suliqua 100 units/ml +33 mcg/ml solution for injection 
insulin glargine + lixisenatide 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
3 ml  
6. 
OTHER  
30-60 dose steps  
SoloStar  
Always use a new needle
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
39 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: information for the user  
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Insulin glargine + lixisenatide  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Suliqua is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Suliqua  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Suliqua  
Possible side effects 
How to store Suliqua  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Suliqua is and what it is used for 
Suliqua is an injectable diabetes medicine that contains two active substances: 
• 
insulin glargine: a long-acting type of insulin which helps control blood sugar (glucose) 
throughout the day. 
lixisenatide: a “GLP-1 analogue” that helps the body produce its own additional insulin in 
response to increases in blood sugar, and slows the absorption of sugar from foods. 
• 
Suliqua is used to treat adults with type 2 diabetes, to help control blood sugar levels when they are 
too high, it is an adjunct to diet and exercise. It is given, with metformin with or without sodium-
glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors (gliflozin products), when other medicines are not enough 
on their own to control your blood sugar levels.  
2.  What you need to know before you use Suliqua  
Do not use Suliqua:  
• 
if you are allergic to insulin glargine or lixisenatide or to any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Suliqua if: 
• 
you have type 1 diabetes, as Suliqua is used for type 2 diabetes and this medicine will not be 
right for you. 
you have diabetic ketoacidosis (a complication of diabetes that occurs when the body is unable 
to use glucose because there is not enough insulin) since this medicine will not be right for you.  
you have a severe stomach or gut problem such as a disease of the muscles of the stomach 
called “gastroparesis” which results in delayed stomach emptying. Since Suliqua may cause 
stomach side effects (see section 4), the medicine has not been studied in patients with severe 
stomach or gut problems. Please see the information regarding medicines that should not stay 
too long in your stomach in the section “Other medicines and Suliqua”.     
you have severe kidney disease or you are on dialysis as the use of this medicine will not be 
recommended.  
• 
• 
• 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Follow closely your doctor’s instructions for dose, monitoring (blood and urine tests), diet and 
physical activity (physical work and exercise) and injection technique. 
Be especially aware of the following: 
• 
Too low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia). If your blood sugar is too low, follow the guidance for 
hypoglycaemia (see information in the box at the end of this leaflet). 
Too high blood sugar (hyperglycaemia). If your blood sugar is too high, follow the guidance for 
hyperglycaemia (see information in the box at the end of this leaflet). 
Ensure that you use the right medicine. You must always check the label before each injection 
to avoid mix-ups between Suliqua and other insulins. 
If you have poor eyesight, please see section 3. 
• 
• 
• 
While using this medicine be aware of the following and talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse 
before using Suliqua: 
• 
severe pain in your stomach area (abdomen) that will not go away. This could be a sign of 
inflamed pancreas (acute pancreatitis). 
loss of fluids from your body (dehydration) e.g., in case of vomiting and diarrhoea. It is 
important to avoid dehydration by drinking plenty of fluids, especially during the first weeks of 
treatment with Suliqua. 
• 
Skin changes at the injection site 
The injection site should be rotated to prevent skin changes such as lumps under the skin. The insulin 
may not work very well if you inject into a lumpy area (see How to use Suliqua). Contact your doctor 
if you are currently injecting into a lumpy area before you start injecting in a different area. Your 
doctor may tell you to check your blood sugar more closely, and to adjust your insulin or your other 
antidiabetic medicine dose. 
Travel 
Talk to your doctor before travelling. You may need to talk about: 
• 
If your medicine is available in the country you are visiting. 
• 
How to arrange the supply of your medicine, needles and other items. 
• 
How to correctly store your medicine while travelling. 
• 
The time you eat meals and use your medicine. 
• 
The possible effects of changing to different time zones. 
• 
Any health risks in the countries you will visit. 
•  What you should do in an emergency if you feel unwell or become ill. 
Children and adolescents 
There is no experience with Suliqua in children and adolescents aged less than 18 years; therefore, the 
use of Suliqua is not recommended in this age group. 
Other medicines and Suliqua  
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are using, have recently used or might use any other 
medicines. If you use another antidiabetic medicine, discuss with your doctor whether you should stop 
using that medicine when starting Suliqua. 
Some medicines can change your blood sugar level. This may mean your doctor may need to change 
your Suliqua dose. So, before taking a medicine ask your doctor if it will affect your blood sugar and 
what action, if any, you need to take. You also need to be careful when you stop taking a medicine. 
The effect of some medicines you swallow might be affected by Suliqua. Some medicines such as 
antibiotics, oral contraceptives, statins (medicines like atorvastatin to lower cholesterol), 
gastro-resistant tablets or capsules or granules or oral powder or suspensions that should not stay too 
long in your stomach may need to be taken at least one hour before or four hours after your Suliqua 
injection.  
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your blood sugar level may fall (hypoglycaemia) if you take: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Any other medicine to treat diabetes. 
Disopyramide, for some heart problems. 
Fluoxetine, for depression. 
Sulphonamide antibiotics, to treat infections. 
Fibrates, for lowering high levels of blood fats. 
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), for depression or Parkinson´s disease. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, for heart problems or high blood pressure. 
Medicines to relieve pain and lower fever, such as pentoxifylline, propoxyphene and salicylates 
(such as acetylsalicylic acid). 
Pentamidine, for some parasite infections. This may cause too low blood sugar which is 
sometimes followed by too high blood sugar. 
• 
Your blood sugar level may rise (hyperglycaemia) if you take: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Corticosteroids such as cortisone and prednisolone, for inflammation. 
Danazol, for endometriosis. 
Diazoxide, for high blood pressure. 
Protease inhibitors, for HIV. 
Diuretics, for high blood pressure or fluid retention. 
Glucagon, for very low blood sugar. 
Isoniazid, for tuberculosis. 
Somatropin, a growth hormone. 
Thyroid hormones, for thyroid gland problems.  
Oestrogens and progestogens, such as in the contraceptive pill for birth control or use of 
oestrogens for bone loss (osteoporosis).  
Clozapine, olanzapine and phenothiazine derivatives, for mental health problems. 
Sympathomimetic medicines such as epinephrine (adrenaline), salbutamol and terbutaline, for 
asthma. 
• 
• 
Your blood sugar level may either rise or fall if you take: 
• 
Beta-blockers or clonidine, for high blood pressure. 
• 
Lithium salts, for mental health problems. 
Medicine that may reduce warning signs of low blood sugar 
Beta-blockers and some other medicines (such as clonidine, guanethidine, reserpine – for high blood 
pressure) may make it harder to recognise warning signs of your low blood sugar levels 
(hypoglycaemia). It can even hide or stop the first signs that your blood sugar is too low. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
using this medicine. 
Warfarin or other anticoagulants 
Tell your doctor if you are taking warfarin or other anticoagulants (medicines used to prevent clotting 
of the blood) as you might need to have more frequent blood tests (called ‘International Normalised 
Ratio’ or INR test) to check your blood clotting. 
Suliqua with alcohol 
Your blood sugar level may either rise or fall if you drink alcohol. You should check your blood sugar 
level more often. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Suliqua should not be used during pregnancy. It is not known if Suliqua harms your unborn child.  
Suliqua should not be used if breast-feeding. It is not known if Suliqua passes into your milk.  
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Having too low or too high blood sugar (see information in the box at the end of this leaflet) can affect 
your ability to drive and use tools or machines. Your concentration may be affected. This could be 
dangerous to yourself and others.  
Ask your doctor whether you can drive if: 
• 
Your blood sugar is often too low. 
• 
You find it hard to recognise when your blood sugar is too low. 
Suliqua contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
Suliqua contains metacresol  
This medicine contains metacresol which may cause allergic reactions. 
3. 
How to use Suliqua  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Your doctor may tell you to use a 
different dose of Suliqua compared to your previous insulin dose or glucose lowering medicine if any. 
Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
How much Suliqua you need each day and at what time. 
Based on your lifestyle, your blood sugar tests and your previous insulin use, your doctor will tell you: 
• 
•  When to check your blood sugar level and if you need to carry out urine tests.  
•  When you may need a higher or lower dose. 
Your doctor may tell you to use Suliqua with other medicines for high blood sugar. 
How much to use 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen: 
• 
• 
This pen provides a dose of 10 to 40 dose steps in one injection, in steps of 1 dose step.  
Each dose step you dial contains 1 unit of insulin glargine and 0.5 micrograms of lixisenatide.  
Your dose of Suliqua is administered as ‘dose steps’. The dose window on the pen shows the number 
of dose steps. 
Do not inject a dose lower than 10 dose steps. Do not inject a dose higher than 40 dose steps. 
If a dose greater than 40 dose steps is needed, your doctor will prescribe a different strength. For dose 
steps from 30-60 units, Suliqua 100 units/ml + 33 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled 
pen is available. 
Many factors may affect your blood sugar level. You should know what they are so that you can take 
the right action if your blood sugar level changes and help stop it becoming too high or too low. See 
the box at the end of this leaflet for more information. 
Use in elderly patients (65 years and older) 
If you are 65 years or older, talk to your doctor as you may need a lower dose. 
If you have kidney or liver problems 
If you have kidney or liver problems, talk to your doctor as you may need a lower dose. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When to inject Suliqua 
Use Suliqua once a day, within 1 hour before a meal. Preferably inject Suliqua before the same meal 
every day, when you have chosen the most convenient meal. 
Before injecting Suliqua  
• 
Always follow the “Instructions for use” that come with this package leaflet and use the pen as 
described. 
If you do not follow all of these instructions, you may get too much or too little of Suliqua. 
• 
To avoid mistakes, always check the medicine pack and label on the pen before each injection to make 
sure you have the correct pen, especially if you inject more than one medicine.  
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How to inject 
• 
• 
• 
Suliqua is injected under the skin (subcutaneous use or “SC”). 
Inject it into the front of your thighs, upper arms or the front of your waist (abdomen).  
Change the place within the area you inject each day. This will reduce the risk of developing 
dents or lumps at the site (for more information, see “Other side effects” in section 4). 
Do not use Suliqua  
• 
If there are particles in the Suliqua. The solution should be clear, colourless and water-like.  
Other important information about using the pre-filled pens 
• 
Always use a new needle for each injection. The re-use of needles increases the risk of blocked 
needles which may cause under- or overdosing. Dispose of the needle safely after each use. 
To prevent infection being passed from one person to another, pens should never be used for 
more than one person, even when the needle is changed.  
Only use needles that are compatible with Suliqua pen (see “Instructions for Use”). 
A safety test must be performed before each injection. 
Throw away the used needle in a sharps container, or as told by your pharmacist or local 
authority. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Never use a syringe to remove the solution from the pen to avoid dosing errors and potential overdose. 
If the pen is damaged, has not been stored correctly, if you are not sure that it is working properly or 
you notice that your blood sugar control is unexpectedly getting worse: 
• 
• 
Throw the pen away and use a new one. 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you think you have a problem with your pen.  
If you use more Suliqua than you should 
If you have injected too much of this medicine, your blood sugar level may become too low 
(hypoglycaemia). Check your blood sugar and eat more food to prevent your blood sugar getting too 
low (hypoglycaemia). If your blood sugar gets too low, see the advice in the box at the end of this 
leaflet. 
If you forget to use Suliqua  
If you have missed a dose of Suliqua or if you have not injected enough insulin, your blood sugar level 
may become too high (hyperglycaemia):  
When needed, Suliqua can be injected before the next meal. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Do not inject a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
Do not use two injections per day 
Check your blood sugar and then inject your next dose at the usual time. 
For information on the treatment of hyperglycaemia, see the box at the end of this leaflet. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop using Suliqua  
Do not stop using this medicine without talking to your doctor. If you do, it could lead to very high 
blood sugar (hyperglycaemia) and a build-up of acid in the blood (ketoacidosis).  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
If you notice signs of your blood sugar being too low (hypoglycaemia), take action to increase your 
blood sugar level straightaway (see the box at the end of this leaflet). 
Hypoglycaemia can be very serious and is very common with medicines containing insulin (may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people). 
Low blood sugar means that there is not enough sugar in your blood. 
If your blood sugar falls too low, you may pass out (become unconscious). 
If blood sugar remains very low for too long, it may cause brain damage and may be life-threatening. 
For more information, see the box at the end of this leaflet. 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Skin changes at the injection site  
If you inject insulin too often at the same place, the skin may either shrink (lipoatrophy) or thicken 
(lipohypertrophy). Lumps under the skin may also be caused by build-up of a protein called amyloid 
(cutaneous amyloidosis). This is not known how often these skin changes occur. The insulin may not 
work very well if you inject into a lumpy area. Change the injection site with each injection to help 
prevent these skin changes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Feeling dizzy 
Feeling sick (nausea) 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Skin and allergic reactions at the injection site: The signs may include reddening, unusually 
intense pain when injecting, itching, hives, swelling or inflammation. This can spread around 
the injection site. Most minor reactions to insulins usually disappear in a few days to a few 
weeks. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Cold, runny nose, sore throat  
Hives (urticaria) 
Headache 
Indigestion (dyspepsia) 
Stomach ache 
Tiredness 
Gallstones  
Inflamed gallbladder 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
A delay in the emptying of the stomach 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Suliqua 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the label of the pen 
after “EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Before first use 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C).  
Do not freeze or place next to the freezer compartment or a freezer pack. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After first use 
Store your pen in use below 25°C for a maximum of 28 days. Discard the pen after this period. 
Do not return the pen to a refrigerator and do not freeze. Store the pen away from direct heat or direct 
light. Always keep the cap on the pen when you are not using it in order to protect it from light. 
Do not leave the pen in a car on an exceptionally warm or cold day.  
Do not store the pen with the needle attached. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer used. These measures will help protect the environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Suliqua contains  
• 
The active substances are insulin glargine and lixisenatide.  
Each pen contains 300 units insulin glargine and 150 micrograms lixisenatide in 3 ml of 
solution. 
Each ml contains 100 units insulin glargine and 50 micrograms lixisenatide. 
Each dose step of Suliqua contains 1 unit of insulin glargine and 0.5 micrograms of lixisenatide.  
The other ingredients are: glycerol 85%, methionine, metacresol, zinc chloride, concentrated 
hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) and water for injections. See also 
section 2 “What you need to know before you use Suliqua” for information on sodium and 
metacresol. 
• 
What Suliqua looks like and contents of the pack  
Suliqua is a clear and colourless solution for injection (injection) filled in a glass cartridge inserted in a 
pre-filled pen (SoloStar).  
Pack sizes of 3, 5 and 10 pre-filled pens.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Needles are not included in the pack.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder   
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
82 avenue Raspail 
94250 Gentilly 
France 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer  
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH  
Industriepark Höchst - 65926 Frankfurt am Main  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 710 54 00 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
sanofi-aventis, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Deutschland 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Tel.: 0800 52 52 010 
Tel. aus dem Ausland: +49 69 305 21 131 
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ  
Tel: +372 640 10 30 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη ΑΕΒΕ 
Τηλ: +30 210 900 16 00 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel: +370 5 236 91 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Sanofi Belgium  
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 710 54 00 (Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt. 
Tel.: +36 1 505 0050 
Malta 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 39394275 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 80 185 – 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 280 00 00 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger: +33 1 57 63 23 23 
Portugal 
Sanofi - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: +351 21 35 89 400 
Hrvatska 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
Ireland 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00  
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 131212 (domande di tipo tecnico)  
        800 536389 (altre domande) 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA 
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 208 33 600  
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 201 200 300 
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HYPERGLYCAEMIA AND HYPOGLYCAEMIA 
If you use insulin, you should always carry the following things with you: 
• 
• 
Foods containing sugar, such as glucose tablets or a sugary drink (at least 20 grams). 
Information so that others know you have diabetes. 
Hyperglycaemia (high blood sugar levels) 
If your blood sugar is too high (hyperglycaemia), you may not have injected enough insulin. 
Reasons why hyperglycaemia may happen: 
Examples include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You have not injected your Suliqua or not injected enough.  
Your medicine has become less effective – for example because it was not stored properly.  
Your pen does not work properly. 
You are doing less exercise than usual. 
You are under stress – such as emotional distress or excitement. 
You have an injury, infection or fever or have had an operation. 
You are taking or have taken certain other medicines (see section 2, "Other medicines and 
Suliqua"). 
Warning signs of hyperglycaemia 
Thirst, increased need to urinate, tiredness, dry skin, reddening of the face, loss of appetite, low blood 
pressure, fast heartbeat, and urine test showing glucose and ketone bodies. Stomach pain, fast and deep 
breathing, feeling sleepy or passing out (becoming unconscious) may be signs of a serious condition 
(ketoacidosis) resulting from lack of insulin.  
What to do if you experience hyperglycaemia  
• 
Test your blood sugar level and, if it is high, as agreed with your doctor or nurse, test your urine 
for ketones as soon as you notice any of the above signs 
Contact your doctor straight away if you have severe hyperglycaemia or ketoacidosis. This must 
always be treated by a doctor, normally in a hospital. 
• 
Hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar levels) 
If your blood sugar level falls too much you may pass out (become unconscious). Serious 
hypoglycaemia may cause a heart attack or brain damage and may be life-threatening. You should 
learn to recognise the signs when your blood sugar is falling – so you can take action to stop it getting 
worse.  
Reasons why hypoglycaemia may happen: 
Examples include: 
• 
• 
• 
You inject too much Suliqua. 
You miss meals or delay them. 
You do not eat enough, or eat food containing less carbohydrates than normal – artificial 
sweeteners are not carbohydrates. 
You drink alcohol – especially when you have not eaten much. 
You lose carbohydrates from being sick (vomiting) or diarrhoea. 
You are doing more exercise than usual or a different type of physical activity. 
You are recovering from an injury, operation or other stress. 
You are recovering from an illness or from fever. 
You are taking or have stopped taking certain other medicines (see section 2, "Other medicines 
and Suliqua"). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypoglycaemia is also more likely to happen if: 
• 
You have just started Suliqua treatment – if low blood sugar occurs, it may be more likely to 
happen in the morning.  
Your blood sugar levels are almost normal or are unstable. 
You change the area where you inject Suliqua. For example, from the thigh to the upper arm. 
You have severe kidney or liver disease, or some other disease such as hypothyroidism. 
• 
• 
• 
Warning signs of hypoglycaemia  
The first signs may be in your body generally. Examples of signs that your blood sugar level is falling 
too much or too fast include: sweating, clammy skin, feeling anxious, fast or irregular heartbeat, high 
blood pressure and palpitations. These signs often develop before the signs of a low sugar level in the 
brain.  
Other signs include: headaches, feeling very hungry, feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting), 
feeling tired, sleepy, restless, sleeping problems, aggressive behaviour, difficulty concentrating, slow 
reactions, depression, feeling confused, difficulty speaking (sometimes total loss of speech), changes 
in your sight, trembling, being unable to move (paralysis), tingling in the hands or arms, feeling numb 
and tingling often around the mouth, feeling dizzy, loss of self-control, being unable to look after 
yourself, fits, passing out. 
When the signs of hypoglycaemia may be less clear: 
The first warning signs of hypoglycaemia may change, be weaker or missing altogether if: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You are elderly. 
You have had diabetes for a long time. 
You have a certain type of nerve damage (called “diabetic autonomic neuropathy”). 
You have recently had too low blood sugar (for example the day before). 
Your low blood sugar comes on slowly. 
Your low blood sugar is always around “normal” or your diabetes control has greatly improved 
recently.  
You have recently changed from animal insulin to a manufactured insulin, like there is in 
Suliqua. 
You are taking or have taken certain other medicines (see section 2, "Other medicines and 
Suliqua").  
• 
• 
In such cases, you may develop severe hypoglycaemia (and even pass out) before you know what is 
happening. Be familiar with your warning signs. If necessary, you might need to test your blood sugar 
more often. This can help to spot mild hypoglycaemic episodes. If you find it difficult to recognise 
your warning signs, you should avoid situations (such as driving a car) in which you or others would 
be put at risk by hypoglycaemia. 
What to do if you experience hypoglycaemia? 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Do not inject Suliqua. Take about 15 to 20 grams sugar straight away - such as glucose, sugar 
cubes or a sugary drink. Drink or foods that contain artificial sweeteners (such as diet drinks) do 
not help treat low blood sugar.  
You might then need to eat something (such as bread or pasta) that will raise your blood sugar 
over a longer time, especially if your next meal is not due. Ask your doctor or nurse if you are 
not sure which foods you should eat. 
With Suliqua, it may take longer to recover from low blood sugar because it contains a 
long-acting insulin (insulin glargine). 
Test your blood glucose levels after 10-15 minutes after taking sugar. If blood glucose levels are 
still too low (<4 mmol/L) or hypoglycaemia comes back, take another 15 to 20 grams of sugar. 
Speak to a doctor straightaway if you are not able to control the hypoglycaemia, or it comes 
back again. 
What other people should do if you have hypoglycaemia 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your relatives, friends and close colleagues to get medical help straightaway if you are not able to 
swallow or if you pass out (become unconscious).  
You will require glucose or glucagon (a medicine which increases blood sugar) and it should be given 
even if it is not certain that you have hypoglycaemia. 
You should test your blood sugar straightaway after taking glucose to check that you really have 
hypoglycaemia. 
51 
 
 
 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
(10-40).  
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
Read the Package Leaflet and these Instructions for Use before first use of Suliqua 
Suliqua (10-40) SoloStar pen contains insulin glargine and lixisenatide. The combination of medicinal 
products in this pen is for the daily injection of 10 to 40 dose steps of Suliqua. 
-  Never re-use needles. If you do, you might not get your full dose (underdosing) or get too 
much (overdosing) as the needle could block. 
-  Never use a syringe to remove medicine from your pen. If you do, you may not get the 
correct amount of medicine. 
Keep these Instructions For Use for future reference. 
Important information 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Never share your pen – it is only for you. 
Never use your pen if it is damaged or if you are not sure that it is working properly. 
Always perform a safety test. See STEP 3. 
Always carry a spare pen and spare needles in case they get lost or stop working. 
Always check the label of the pen before use to make sure you have the correct pen. 
Learn to inject 
• 
• 
• 
Talk with your doctor or pharmacist or nurse about how to inject, before using your pen. 
Ask for help if you have problems handling the pen, for example if you have problems with 
your sight. 
Read all of these instructions before using your pen. If you do not follow all of these 
instructions, you may get too much or too little medicine. 
Need help? 
If you have any questions about Suliqua, the pen or about diabetes, ask your doctor, pharmacist or 
nurse. 
Additional items you will need 
• 
• 
a new sterile needle (see STEP 2).   
a sharps container for used needles. (see Throwing your pen away). 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Places to inject 
Upper arms 
Stomach 
Thighs 
Get to know your pen 
Pen cap 
Cartridge holder 
Plunger* 
Dose window 
Dose pointer 
Dose selector 
Scale 
Rubber seal 
Injection  
button 
*You will not see the plunger until you have injected a few doses 
Product name 
STEP 1: Check your pen 
For first use of a new pen, take it out of the refrigerator at least 1 hour before you inject. Injecting cold 
medicine is more painful. After first use the pen will be stored at temperatures below 25°C. 
A.  Check the name and expiry date on the label of your pen. 
•  Make sure you have the correct medicine. This pen is peach coloured with an orange 
injection button. 
•  Do not use this pen if you need a daily dose less than 10 dose steps or if you need 
more than 40 dose steps. Discuss with your doctor which pen is suitable for your 
needs. 
•  Do not use your pen after the expiry date. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. 
Pull off the pen cap. 
C.  Check that the medicine is clear. 
• 
 Look at the transparent cartridge holder. Do not use the pen if the medicine looks 
cloudy, coloured or contains particles. 
STEP 2: Attach a new needle 
• 
• 
Do not reuse needles. Always use a new sterile needle for each injection. This helps stop 
blocked needles, contamination, and infection.  
Always use needles that are compatible for use with Suliqua pen. 
A. 
Take a new needle and peel off the protective seal. 
B.  Keep the needle straight and screw it onto the pen until fixed. Do not over-tighten. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. 
Pull off the outer needle cap. Keep this for later. 
D. 
Pull off the inner needle cap and throw away.  
If you try to put it back on, you may accidentally stick yourself with the needle.  
Handling needles 
• 
Take care when handling needles to prevent needle injury and cross-infection.  
STEP 3: Do a safety test 
Always do a safety test before each injection to: 
• 
• 
A. 
Check your pen and the needle to make sure they are working properly 
Make sure that you get the correct dose. 
Select 2 dose steps by turning the dose selector until the dose pointer is at the 2 mark. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. 
Press the injection button all the way in. 
•  When medicine comes out of the needle tip, your pen is working correctly, the dose 
selector will be reset to “0”. 
If no liquid appears 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You may need to repeat this step up to 3 times before seeing medicine. 
If no medicine comes out after the third time, the needle may be blocked. If this happens: 
– change the needle (see STEP 6 and STEP 2), 
– then repeat the safety test (STEP 3). 
Do not use your pen if there is still no medicine coming out of the needle tip. Use a new pen. 
Do not use a syringe to remove medicine from your pen. 
If you see air bubbles 
• 
You may see air bubbles in the medicine. This is normal, they will not harm you. 
STEP 4: Select the dose 
• 
• 
Use this pen only to inject single daily doses from 10 to 40 dose steps. 
Do not select a dose or press the injection button without a needle attached. This may damage 
your pen. 
A.  Make sure a needle is attached and the dose is set to ‘0’. 
B. 
• 
• 
• 
Turn the dose selector until the dose pointer lines up with your dose. 
If you turn past your dose, you can turn back down. 
If there are not enough dose steps left in your pen for your dose, the dose selector will stop 
at the number of dose steps left. 
If you cannot select your full prescribed dose, use a new pen or inject the remaining dose 
steps and use a new pen to complete your dose. Only in this case, it is okay to inject a 
partial dose of less than 10 dose steps. Always use another Suliqua (10-40) Solostar pen 
to complete your dose and no other pen. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to read the dose window 
•  Even numbers are presented in line with the dose pointer and odd numbers are presented 
as a line between even numbers. 
       29 units selected 
•  Do not use the pen if your single daily dose is less than 10 dose steps, shown as white 
numbers on a black background. 
Units of medicine in your pen 
•  Your pen contains a total of 300 dose steps. You can select your dose in steps of 1 dose step. 
•  Do not use this pen if you need a single daily dose that is less than 10 dose steps, or more than 
40 dose steps. Discuss with your doctor which pen is suitable for your needs. 
Each pen contains more than 1 dose. 
• 
STEP 5: Inject the dose 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you find it hard to press the injection button in, do not force it as this may break your pen.   
Change the needle (see STEP 6 Remove the needle and STEP 2 Attach a new needle) then do 
a safety test (see STEP 3). 
If you still find it hard to press in, get a new pen. 
Do not use a syringe to remove medicine from your pen. 
A.  Choose a place to inject as shown in the picture above. 
B.  Push the needle into your skin as shown by your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. 
• 
Do not touch the injection button yet. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.  Place your thumb on the injection button. Then press all the way in and hold. 
• 
Do not press at an angle. Your thumb could block the dose selector from turning. 
D.  Keep the injection button held in and when you see "0" in the dose window, slowly count 
to 10. 
• 
This will make sure you get your full dose. 
E.  After holding and slowly counting to 10, release the injection button. Then remove the 
needle from your skin. 
STEP 6: Remove the needle 
• 
• 
Take care when handling needles to prevent needle injury and cross-infection. 
Do not put the inner needle cap back on.  
A.  Grip the widest part of the outer needle cap. Keep the needle straight and guide it into 
the outer needle cap back. Then push firmly on. 
• 
The needle can puncture the cap if it is recapped at an angle. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  Grip and squeeze the widest part of the outer needle cap. Turn your pen several times with 
your other hand to remove the needle. 
• 
Try again if the needle does not come off the first time. 
C. 
Throw away the used needle in a puncture resistant container (see “Throwing your pen 
away” at the end of these Instructions for Use). 
D. 
Put your pen cap back on. 
• 
Do not put the pen back in the refrigerator. 
How to store your pen 
Before first use 
• 
• 
Keep new pens in the refrigerator between 2°C to 8°C. 
Do not freeze. 
After first use 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep your pen at room temperature, below 25°C. 
Do not put your pen back in the refrigerator. 
Do not store your pen with the needle attached. 
Store the pen with your pen cap on. 
Only use your pen for up to 28 days after its first use. 
How to care for your pen 
Handle your pen with care 
• 
If you think that your pen may be damaged, do not try to fix it.  Use a new one. 
Protect your pen from dust and dirt 
• 
You can clean the outside of your pen by wiping it with a damp cloth (water only). Do not 
soak, wash or lubricate the pen. This may damage it. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Throwing your pen away 
•  Remove the needle before throwing your pen away. 
•  Throw away your used pen as instructed by your pharmacist or local authority. 
60 
 
 
Package leaflet: information for the user  
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 33 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Insulin glargine + lixisenatide  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Suliqua is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Suliqua  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Suliqua  
Possible side effects 
How to store Suliqua  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Suliqua is and what it is used for 
Suliqua is an injectable diabetes medicine that contains two active substances: 
• 
insulin glargine: a long-acting type of insulin which helps control blood sugar (glucose) 
throughout the day. 
lixisenatide:  a “GLP-1 analogue” that helps the body produce its own additional insulin in 
response to increases in blood sugar, and slows the absorption of sugar from foods. 
• 
Suliqua is used to treat adults with type 2 diabetes, to help control blood sugar levels when they are 
too high, it is an adjunct to diet and exercise. It is given, with metformin with or without sodium-
glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors (gliflozin products), when other medicines are not enough 
on their own to control your blood sugar levels. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Suliqua  
Do not use Suliqua:  
• 
if you are allergic to insulin glargine or lixisenatide or to any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Suliqua if: 
• 
• 
• 
you have type 1 diabetes, as Suliqua is used for type 2 diabetes and this medicine will not be 
right for you.  
you have diabetic ketoacidosis (a complication of diabetes that occurs when the body is unable 
to use glucose because there is not enough insulin) since this medicine will not be right for you.  
you have a severe stomach or gut problem such as a disease of the muscles of the stomach 
called “gastroparesis” which results in delayed stomach emptying. Since Suliqua may cause 
stomach side effects (see section 4), the medicine has not been studied in patients with severe 
stomach or gut problems. Please see the information regarding medicines that should not stay 
too long in your stomach in the section “Other medicines and Suliqua”.  
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
you have severe kidney disease or you are on dialysis as the use of this medicine will not be 
recommended.  
Follow closely your doctor’s instructions for dose, monitoring (blood and urine tests), diet and 
physical activity (physical work and exercise) and injection technique. 
Be especially aware of the following: 
• 
Too low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia). If your blood sugar is too low, follow the guidance for 
hypoglycaemia (see information in the box at the end of this leaflet). 
Too high blood sugar (hyperglycaemia). If your blood sugar is too high, follow the guidance for 
hyperglycaemia (see information in the box at the end of this leaflet). 
Ensure that you use the right medicine. You must always check the label before each injection 
to avoid mix-ups between Suliqua and other insulins. 
If you have poor eyesight, please see section 3. 
• 
• 
• 
While using this medicine be aware of the following and talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse 
before using Suliqua: 
• 
severe pain in your stomach area (abdomen) that will not go away. This could be a sign of 
inflamed pancreas (acute pancreatitis). 
loss of fluids from your body (dehydration) e.g., in case of vomiting and diarrhoea. It is 
important to avoid dehydration by drinking plenty of fluids, especially during the first weeks of 
treatment with Suliqua. 
• 
Skin changes at the injection site 
The injection site should be rotated to prevent skin changes such as lumps under the skin. The insulin 
may not work very well if you inject into a lumpy area (see How to use Suliqua). Contact your doctor 
if you are currently injecting into a lumpy area before you start injecting in a different area. Your 
doctor may tell you to check your blood sugar more closely, and to adjust your insulin or your other 
antidiabetic medicine dose. 
Travel 
Talk to your doctor before travelling. You may need to talk about: 
• 
If your medicine is available in the country you are visiting. 
• 
How to arrange the supply of your medicine, needles and other items. 
• 
How to correctly store your medicine while travelling. 
• 
The time you eat meals and use your medicine. 
• 
The possible effects of changing to different time zones. 
• 
Any health risks in the countries you will visit. 
•  What you should do in an emergency if you feel unwell or become ill. 
Children and adolescents 
There is no experience with Suliqua in children and adolescents aged less than 18 years; therefore, the 
use of Suliqua is not recommended in this age group. 
Other medicines and Suliqua  
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are using, have recently used or might use any other 
medicines. If you use another antidiabetic medicine, discuss with your doctor whether you should stop 
using that medicine when starting Suliqua. 
Some medicines can change your blood sugar level. This may mean your doctor may need to change 
your Suliqua dose. So, before taking a medicine ask your doctor if it will affect your blood sugar and 
what action, if any, you need to take. You also need to be careful when you stop taking a medicine. 
The effect of some medicines you swallow might be affected by Suliqua. Some medicines such as 
antibiotics, oral contraceptives, statins (medicines like atorvastatin to lower cholesterol), 
gastro-resistant tablets or capsules or granules or oral powder or suspensions that should not stay too 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
long in your stomach may need to be taken at least one hour before or four hours after your Suliqua 
injection.  
Your blood sugar level may fall (hypoglycaemia) if you take: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Any other medicine to treat diabetes. 
Disopyramide, for some heart problems. 
Fluoxetine, for depression. 
Sulphonamide antibiotics, to treat infections. 
Fibrates, for lowering high levels of blood fats. 
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), for depression or Parkinson´s disease. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, for heart problems or high blood pressure. 
Medicines to relieve pain and lower fever, such as pentoxifylline, propoxyphene and salicylates 
(such as acetylsalicylic acid). 
Pentamidine, for some parasite infections. This may cause too low blood sugar which is 
sometimes followed by too high blood sugar. 
• 
Your blood sugar level may rise (hyperglycaemia) if you take: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Corticosteroids such as cortisone and prednisolone, for inflammation. 
Danazol, for endometriosis. 
Diazoxide, for high blood pressure. 
Protease inhibitors, for HIV. 
Diuretics, for high blood pressure or fluid retention. 
Glucagon, for very low blood sugar. 
Isoniazid, for tuberculosis. 
Somatropin, a growth hormone. 
Thyroid hormones, for thyroid gland problems.  
Oestrogens and progestogens, such as in the contraceptive pill for birth control or use of 
oestrogens for bone loss (osteoporosis).  
Clozapine, olanzapine and phenothiazine derivatives, for mental health problems. 
Sympathomimetic medicines such as epinephrine (adrenaline), salbutamol and terbutaline, for 
asthma. 
• 
• 
Your blood sugar level may either rise or fall if you take: 
• 
Beta-blockers or clonidine, for high blood pressure. 
• 
Lithium salts, for mental health problems. 
Medicine that may reduce warning signs of low blood sugar 
Beta-blockers and some other medicines (such as clonidine, guanethidine, reserpine – for high blood 
pressure) may make it harder to recognise warning signs of your low blood sugar levels 
(hypoglycaemia). It can even hide or stop the first signs that your blood sugar is too low. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
using this medicine. 
Warfarin or other anticoagulants 
Tell your doctor if you are taking warfarin or other anticoagulants (medicines used to prevent clotting 
of the blood) as you might need to have more frequent blood tests (called ‘International Normalised 
Ratio’ or INR test) to check your blood clotting. 
Suliqua with alcohol 
Your blood sugar level may either rise or fall if you drink alcohol. You should check your blood sugar 
level more often. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Suliqua should not be used during pregnancy. It is not known if Suliqua harms your unborn child.  
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suliqua should not be used if breast-feeding. It is not known if Suliqua passes into your milk.  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Having too low or too high blood sugar (see information in the box at the end of this leaflet) can affect 
your ability to drive and use tools or machines. Your concentration may be affected. This could be 
dangerous to yourself and others.  
Ask your doctor whether you can drive if: 
• 
Your blood sugar is often too low. 
• 
You find it hard to recognise when your blood sugar is too low. 
Suliqua contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
Suliqua contains metacresol 
This medicine contains metacresol which may cause allergic reactions. 
3. 
How to use Suliqua  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Your doctor may tell you to use a 
different dose of Suliqua compared to your previous insulin dose or glucose lowering medicine if any. 
Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
How much Suliqua you need each day and at what time. 
Based on your lifestyle, your blood sugar tests and your previous insulin use, your doctor will tell you: 
• 
•  When to check your blood sugar level and if you need to carry out urine tests.  
•  When you may need a higher or lower dose. 
Your doctor may tell you to use Suliqua with other medicines for high blood sugar. 
How much to use 
The Suliqua 100 units/ml + 33 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen : 
•  This pen provides a dose of 30 to 60 dose steps in one injection, in steps of 1 dose step.  
•  Each dose step you dial contains 1 unit of insulin glargine and 0.33 micrograms of lixisenatide.  
Your dose of Suliqua is administered as ‘dose steps’. The dose window on the pen shows the number 
of dose steps. 
Do not inject a dose lower than 30 dose steps. Do not inject a dose higher than 60 dose steps. 
If a dose lower than 30 dose steps is needed, your doctor will prescribe a different strength. For dose 
steps from 10-40 units, Suliqua 100 units/ml + 50 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled 
pen. 
Many factors may affect your blood sugar level. You should know what they are so that you can take 
the right action if your blood sugar level changes and help stop it becoming too high or too low. See 
the box at the end of this leaflet for more information. 
Use in elderly patients (65 years and older) 
If you are 65 years or older, talk to your doctor as you may need a lower dose. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have kidney or liver problems 
If you have kidney or liver problems, talk to your doctor as you may need a lower dose. 
When to inject Suliqua 
Use Suliqua once a day, within 1 hour before a meal. Preferably inject Suliqua before the same meal 
every day, when you have chosen the most convenient meal. 
Before injecting Suliqua  
• 
Always follow the “Instructions for use” that come with this package leaflet and use the pen as 
described. 
If you do not follow all of these instructions, you may get too much or too little of Suliqua. 
• 
To avoid mistakes, always check the medicine pack and label on the pen before each injection to make 
sure you have the correct pen, especially if you inject more than one medicine. Ask your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How to inject 
• 
• 
• 
Suliqua is injected under the skin (subcutaneous use or “SC”). 
Inject it into the front of your thighs, upper arms or the front of your waist (abdomen).  
Change the place within the area you inject each day. This will reduce the risk of developing 
dents or lumps at the site (for more information, see “Other side effects” in section 4). 
Do not use Suliqua   
• 
If there are particles in the Suliqua. The solution should be clear, colourless and water-like.  
Other important information about using the pre-filled pens 
• 
Always use a new needle for each injection. The re-use of needles increases the risk of blocked 
needles which may cause under- or overdosing. Dispose of the needle safely after each use. 
To prevent infection being passed from one person to another, pens should never be used for 
more than one person, even when the needle is changed. 
Only use needles that are compatible with Suliqua pen (see “Instructions for Use”). 
A safety test must be performed before each injection. 
Throw away the used needle in a sharps container, or as told by your pharmacist or local 
authority. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Never use a syringe to remove the solution from the pen to avoid dosing errors and potential overdose. 
If the pen is damaged, has not been stored correctly, if you are not sure that it is working properly or 
you notice that your blood sugar control is unexpectedly getting worse: 
• 
• 
throw the pen away and use a new one. 
talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you think you have a problem with your pen.  
If you use more Suliqua than you should 
If you have injected too much of this medicine, your blood sugar level may become too low 
(hypoglycaemia). Check your blood sugar and eat more food to prevent your blood sugar getting too 
low (hypoglycaemia). If your blood sugar gets too low, see the advice in the box at the end of this 
leaflet. 
If you forget to use Suliqua  
If you have missed a dose of Suliqua or if you have not injected enough insulin, your blood sugar level 
may become too high (hyperglycaemia):  
When needed, Suliqua can be injected before the next meal. 
• 
• 
Do not inject a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
Do not use two injections per day 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Check your blood sugar and then inject your next dose at the usual time. 
For information on the treatment of hyperglycaemia, see the box at the end of this leaflet. 
If you stop using Suliqua  
Do not stop using this medicine without talking to your doctor. If you do, it could lead to very high 
blood sugar (hyperglycaemia) and a build-up of acid in the blood (ketoacidosis).  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
If you notice signs of your blood sugar being too low (hypoglycaemia), take action to increase your 
blood sugar level straightaway (see the box at the end of this leaflet). 
Hypoglycaemia can be very serious and is very common with medicines containing insulin (may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people). 
Low blood sugar means that there is not enough sugar in your blood. 
If your blood sugar falls too low, you may pass out (become unconscious). 
If blood sugar remains very low for too long, it may cause brain damage and may be life-threatening. 
For more information, see the box at the end of this leaflet. 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Skin changes at the injection site  
If you inject insulin too often at the same place, the skin may either shrink (lipoatrophy) or thicken 
(lipohypertrophy). Lumps under the skin may also be caused by build-up of a protein called amyloid 
(cutaneous amyloidosis). This is not known how often these skin changes occur. The insulin may not 
work very well if you inject into a lumpy area. Change the injection site with each injection to help 
prevent these skin changes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Feeling dizzy 
Feeling sick (nausea) 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Skin and allergic reactions at the injection site: The signs may include reddening, unusually 
intense pain when injecting, itching, hives, swelling or inflammation. This can spread around 
the injection site. Most minor reactions to insulins usually disappear in a few days to a few 
weeks. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Cold, runny nose, sore throat  
Hives (urticaria) 
Headache 
Indigestion (dyspepsia) 
Stomach ache 
Tiredness 
Gallstones  
Inflamed gallbladder 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
•  A delay in the emptying of the stomach 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Suliqua 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the label of the pen 
after “EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Before first use 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C).  
Do not freeze or place next to the freezer compartment or a freezer pack. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After first use 
Store your pen in use below 25°C for a maximum of 28 days. Discard the pen after this period. 
Do not return the pen to a refrigerator and do not freeze. Store the pen away from direct heat or direct 
light. Always keep the cap on the pen when you are not using it in order to protect it from light. 
Do not leave the pen in a car on an exceptionally warm or cold day.  
Do not store the pen with the needle attached. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer used. These measures will help protect the environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Suliqua contains  
• 
The active substances are insulin glargine and lixisenatide.  
Each pen contains 300 units insulin glargine and 100 micrograms lixisenatide in 3 ml of 
solution. 
Each ml contains 100 units insulin glargine and 33 micrograms lixisenatide  
Each dose step of Suliqua contains 1 unit of insulin glargine and 0.33 micrograms of 
lixisenatide. 
The other ingredients are: glycerol 85%, methionine, metacresol, zinc chloride, concentrated 
hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) and water for injections. See also 
section 2 “What you need to know before you use Suliqua” for information on sodium and 
metacresol. 
• 
What Suliqua looks like and contents of the pack  
Suliqua is a clear and colourless solution for injection (injection) filled in a glass cartridge inserted in a 
pre-filled pen (SoloStar).  
Pack sizes of 3, 5 and 10 pre-filled pens.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Needles are not included in the pack. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
82 avenue Raspail 
94250 Gentilly 
France 
Manufacturer  
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH  
Industriepark Höchst - 65926 Frankfurt am Main  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 710 54 00 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
sanofi-aventis, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Deutschland 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Tel.: 0800 52 52 010 
Tel. aus dem Ausland: +49 69 305 21 131 
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ  
Tel: +372 640 10 30 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη ΑΕΒΕ 
Τηλ: +30 210 900 16 00 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel: +370 5 236 91 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Sanofi Belgium  
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 710 54 00 (Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
 SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt.  
Tel.: +36 1 505 0050 
Malta 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 39394275 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 80 185 – 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 280 00 00 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger: +33 1 57 63 23 23 
Portugal 
Sanofi - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: +351 21 35 89 400 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hrvatska 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
Ireland 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 131212 (domande di tipo tecnico)  
800 536389 (altre domande) 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA 
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
This leaflet was last revised in  
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00  
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 208 33 600  
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 201 200 300 
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HYPERGLYCAEMIA AND HYPOGLYCAEMIA 
If you use insulin, you should always carry the following things with you: 
• 
• 
Foods containing sugar, such as glucose tablets or a sugary drink (at least 20 grams). 
Information so that others know you have diabetes. 
Hyperglycaemia (high blood sugar levels) 
If your blood sugar is too high (hyperglycaemia), you may not have injected enough insulin. 
Reasons why hyperglycaemia may happen: 
Examples include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You have not injected your Suliqua or not injected enough.  
Your medicine has become less effective – for example because it was not stored properly.  
Your pen does not work properly. 
You are doing less exercise than usual. 
You are under stress – such as emotional distress or excitement. 
You have an injury, infection or fever or have had an operation. 
You are taking or have taken certain other medicines (see section 2, "Other medicines and 
Suliqua"). 
Warning signs of hyperglycaemia 
Thirst, increased need to urinate, tiredness, dry skin, reddening of the face, loss of appetite, low blood 
pressure, fast heartbeat, and urine test showing glucose and ketone bodies. Stomach pain, fast and deep 
breathing, feeling sleepy or passing out (becoming unconscious) may be signs of a serious condition 
(ketoacidosis) resulting from lack of insulin.  
What to do if you experience hyperglycaemia  
• 
Test your blood sugar level and, if it is high, as agreed with your doctor or nurse, test your urine 
for ketones as soon as you notice any of the above signs 
Contact your doctor straight away if you have severe hyperglycaemia or ketoacidosis. This must 
always be treated by a doctor, normally in a hospital. 
• 
Hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar levels) 
If your blood sugar level falls too much you may pass out (become unconscious). Serious 
hypoglycaemia may cause a heart attack or brain damage and may be life-threatening. You should 
learn to recognise the signs when your blood sugar is falling – so you can take action to stop it getting 
worse.  
Reasons why hypoglycaemia may happen: 
Examples include: 
• 
• 
• 
You inject too much Suliqua. 
You miss meals or delay them. 
You do not eat enough, or eat food containing less carbohydrates than normal – artificial 
sweeteners are not carbohydrates. 
You drink alcohol – especially when you have not eaten much. 
You lose carbohydrates from being sick (vomiting) or diarrhoea. 
You are doing more exercise than usual or a different type of physical activity. 
You are recovering from an injury, operation or other stress. 
You are recovering from an illness or from fever. 
You are taking or have stopped taking certain other medicines (see section 2, "Other medicines 
and Suliqua"). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypoglycaemia is also more likely to happen if: 
• 
You have just started Suliqua treatment – if low blood sugar occurs, it may be more likely to 
happen in the morning.  
Your blood sugar levels are almost normal or are unstable. 
You change the area where you inject Suliqua. For example, from the thigh to the upper arm. 
You have severe kidney or liver disease, or some other disease such as hypothyroidism. 
• 
• 
• 
Warning signs of hypoglycaemia  
The first signs may be in your body generally. Examples of signs that your blood sugar level is falling 
too much or too fast include: sweating, clammy skin, feeling anxious, fast or irregular heartbeat, high 
blood pressure and palpitations. These signs often develop before the signs of a low sugar level in the 
brain.  
Other signs include: headaches, feeling very hungry, feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting), 
feeling tired, sleepy, restless, sleeping problems, aggressive behaviour, difficulty concentrating, slow 
reactions, depression, feeling confused, difficulty speaking (sometimes total loss of speech), changes 
in your sight, trembling, being unable to move (paralysis), tingling in the hands or arms, feeling numb 
and tingling often around the mouth, feeling dizzy, loss of self-control, being unable to look after 
yourself, fits, passing out. 
When the signs of hypoglycaemia may be less clear: 
The first warning signs of hypoglycaemia may change, be weaker or missing altogether if: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You are elderly. 
You have had diabetes for a long time. 
You have a certain type of nerve damage (called “diabetic autonomic neuropathy”). 
You have recently had too low blood sugar (for example the day before). 
Your low blood sugar comes on slowly. 
Your low blood sugar is always around “normal” or your diabetes control has greatly improved 
recently.  
You have recently changed from animal insulin to a manufactured insulin, like there is in 
Suliqua. 
You are taking or have taken certain other medicines (see section 2, "Other medicines and 
Suliqua").  
• 
• 
In such cases, you may develop severe hypoglycaemia (and even pass out) before you know what is 
happening. Be familiar with your warning signs. If necessary, you might need to test your blood sugar 
more often. This can help to spot mild hypoglycaemic episodes. If you find it difficult to recognise 
your warning signs, you should avoid situations (such as driving a car) in which you or others would 
be put at risk by hypoglycaemia. 
What to do if you experience hypoglycaemia? 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Do not inject Suliqua. Take about 15 to 20 grams sugar straight away - such as glucose, sugar 
cubes or a sugary drink. Drink or foods that contain artificial sweeteners (such as diet drinks) do 
not help treat low blood sugar.  
You might then need to eat something (such as bread or pasta) that will raise your blood sugar 
over a longer time, especially if your next meal is not due. Ask your doctor or nurse if you are 
not sure which foods you should eat. 
With Suliqua, it may take longer to recover from low blood sugar because it contains a 
long-acting insulin (insulin glargine). 
Test your blood glucose levels after 10-15 minutes after taking sugar. If blood glucose levels are 
still too low (<4 mmol/L) or hypoglycaemia comes back, take another 15 to 20 grams of sugar. 
Speak to a doctor straightaway if you are not able to control the hypoglycaemia, or it comes 
back again. 
What other people should do if you have hypoglycaemia 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your relatives, friends and close colleagues to get medical help straightaway if you are not able to 
swallow or if you pass out (become unconscious).  
You will require glucose or glucagon (a medicine which increases blood sugar) and it should be given 
even if it is not certain that you have hypoglycaemia. 
You should test your blood sugar straightaway after taking glucose to check that you really have 
hypoglycaemia. 
72 
 
 
Suliqua 100 units/ml + 33 micrograms/ml solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
(30-60).  
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
Read the Package Leaflet and these Instructions for Use before first use of Suliqua 
Suliqua (30-60) SoloStar pen contains insulin glargine and lixisenatide. The combination of medicinal 
products in this pen is for the daily injection of 30 to 60 dose steps of Suliqua. 
• 
• 
Never re-use needles.  If you do, you might not get your full dose (underdosing) or get too 
much (overdosing) as the needle could block. 
Never use a syringe to remove medicine from your pen.  If you do, you may not get the 
correct amount of medicine.   
Keep these Instructions For Use for future reference. 
Important information 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Never share your pen – it is only for you. 
Never use your pen if it is damaged or if you are not sure that it is working properly. 
Always perform a safety test. See STEP 3. 
Always carry a spare pen and spare needles in case they get lost or stop working. 
Always check the label of the pen before use to make sure you have the correct pen. 
Learn to inject 
• 
• 
• 
Talk with your doctor or pharmacist or nurse about how to inject, before using your pen. 
Ask for help if you have problems handling the pen, for example if you have problems with 
your sight. 
Read all of these instructions before using your pen. If you do not follow all of these 
instructions, you may get too much or too little medicine. 
Need help? 
If you have any questions about Suliqua, the pen or about diabetes, ask your doctor, pharmacist or 
nurse. 
Additional items you will need 
• 
• 
a new sterile needle (see STEP 2).   
a sharps container for used needles. (see Throwing your pen away). 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Places to inject 
Upper arms 
Stomach 
Thighs 
Get to know your pen 
Cartridge holder 
Plunger* 
Dose window 
Dose pointer 
Pen cap 
Rubber seal 
Scale 
Product name 
Injection 
button 
*You will not see the plunger until you have injected a few doses 
Dose selector 
STEP 1: Check your pen 
For first use of a new pen take it out of the refrigerator at least 1 hour before you inject. Injecting cold 
medicine is more painful. After first use the pen will be stored at temperatures below 25°C. 
A.  Check the name and expiry date on the label of your pen. 
•  Make sure you have the correct medicine.  This pen is olive coloured with a brown 
injection button. 
•  Do not use this pen if you need a daily dose less than 30 dose steps or if you need 
more than 60 dose steps.  Discuss with your doctor which pen is suitable for your 
needs. 
•  Do not use your pen after the expiry date. 
B.  Pull off the pen cap. 
C.  Check that the medicine is clear. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
 Look at the transparent cartridge holder. Do not use the pen if the medicine looks 
cloudy, coloured or contains particles. 
STEP 2: Attach a new needle 
• 
• 
Do not reuse needles.  Always use a new sterile needle for each injection. This helps stop 
blocked needles, contamination, and infection.  
Always use needles that are compatible for use with Suliqua pen. 
A.  Take a new needle and peel off the protective seal. 
B.  Keep the needle straight and screw it onto the pen until fixed. Do not over-tighten. 
C. 
Pull off the outer needle cap. Keep this for later. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. 
Pull off the inner needle cap and throw away. 
If you try to put it back on, you may accidentally stick yourself with the needle. 
Handling needles 
• 
Take care when handling needles to prevent needle injury and cross-infection. 
STEP 3: Do a safety test 
Always do a safety test before each injection to: 
• 
• 
A. 
Check your pen and the needle to make sure they are working properly 
Make sure that you get the correct dose. 
Select 2 dose steps by turning the dose selector until the dose pointer is at the 2 mark. 
B. 
Press the injection button all the way in. 
•  When medicine comes out of the needle tip, your pen is working correctly, the dose 
selector will be reset to “0”. 
If no liquid appears 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You may need to repeat this step up to 3 times before seeing medicine. 
If no medicine comes out after the third time, the needle may be blocked. If this happens: 
– change the needle (see STEP 6 and STEP 2), 
– then repeat the safety test (STEP 3). 
Do not use your pen if there is still no medicine coming out of the needle tip. Use a new pen. 
Do not use a syringe to remove medicine from your pen. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you see air bubbles 
• 
You may see air bubbles in the medicine. This is normal, they will not harm you. 
STEP 4: Select the dose 
• 
• 
Use this pen only to inject single daily doses from 30 to 60 dose steps. 
Do not select a dose or press the injection button without a needle attached.  This may damage 
your pen. 
A.  Make sure a needle is attached and the dose is set to ‘0’. 
B. 
• 
• 
• 
Turn the dose selector until the dose pointer lines up with your dose. 
If you turn past your dose, you can turn back down. 
If there are not enough dose steps left in your pen for your dose, the dose selector will stop at 
the number of dose steps left. 
If you cannot select your full prescribed dose, use a new pen or inject the remaining dose 
steps and use a new pen to complete your dose. Only in this case, it is okay to inject a 
partial dose of less than 30 dose steps. Always use another Suliqua (30- 60) Solostar pen to 
complete your dose and no other pen. 
How to read the dose window 
• 
Even numbers are presented in line with the dose pointer and odd numbers are presented as a 
line between even numbers. 
           39 units selected 
• 
Do not use the pen if your single daily dose is less than 30 dose steps, shown as white 
numbers on a black background. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Units of medicine in your pen 
• 
• 
• 
Your pen contains a total of 300 dose steps.  You can select your dose in steps of 1 dose step. 
Do not use this pen if you need a single daily dose that is less than 30 dose steps, or more than 
60 dose steps. Discuss with your doctor which pen is suitable for your needs. 
Each pen contains more than 1 dose. 
STEP 5: Inject the dose 
• 
If you find it hard to press the injection button in, do not force it as this may break your pen.   
•  Change the needle (see STEP 6 Remove the needle and STEP 2 Attach a new needle) then 
do a safety test (see STEP 3). 
If you still find it hard to press in, get a new pen. 
• 
•  Do not use a syringe to remove medicine from your pen. 
A.  Choose a place to inject as shown in the picture above. 
B.  Push the needle into your skin as shown by your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. 
• 
Do not touch the injection button yet. 
C.  Place your thumb on the injection button. Then press all the way in and hold. 
• 
Do not press at an angle.  Your thumb could block the dose selector from turning. 
D.  Keep the injection button held in and when you see "0" in the dose window, slowly count 
to 10. 
• 
This will make sure you get your full dose. 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 secs 
E. 
After holding and slowly counting to 10, release the injection button. Then remove the 
needle from your skin. 
STEP 6: Remove the needle 
• 
• 
Take care when handling needles to prevent needle injury and cross-infection. 
Do not put the inner needle cap back on. 
A.  Grip the widest part of the outer needle cap.  Keep the needle straight and guide it into 
the outer needle cap back. Then push firmly on. 
• 
The needle can puncture the cap if it is recapped at an angle. 
B.  Grip and squeeze the widest part of the outer needle cap. Turn your pen several times with 
your other hand to remove the needle. 
• 
Try again if the needle does not come off the first time. 
C. 
Throw away the used needle in a puncture resistant container (see “Throwing your pen 
away” at the end of these Instructions for Use). 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. 
Put your pen cap back on. 
• 
Do not put the pen back in the refrigerator. 
How to store your pen 
Before first use 
• 
• 
Keep new pens in the refrigerator between 2°C to 8°C. 
Do not freeze. 
After first use 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep your pen at room temperature, below 25°C. 
Do not put your pen back in the refrigerator. 
Do not store your pen with the needle attached. 
Store the pen with your pen cap on.  
Only use your pen for up to 28 days after its first use. 
How to care for your pen 
Handle your pen with care 
• 
If you think that your pen may be damaged, do not try to fix it.  Use a new one. 
Protect your pen from dust and dirt 
• 
You can clean the outside of your pen by wiping it with a damp cloth (water only). Do not 
soak, wash or lubricate the pen. This may damage it. 
Throwing your pen away 
•  Remove the needle before throwing your pen away. 
•  Throw away your used pen as instructed by your pharmacist or local authority. 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
