12 December 2019 
EMA/122177/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): insulin glargine / lixisenatide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010577/201905 
Period covered by the PSUR: 21/11/2018 To: 21/05/2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for insulin glargine / lixisenatide, the 
scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The MAH identified 29 case reports of ‘cutaneous amyloidosis’ at the injection site for insulin glargine, 
one of the components of this FRC, in their pharmacovigilance database. In 15 of the 29 cases 
‘cutaneous amyloidosis’ was confirmed by histopathology analysis. The time to onset ranged from 4 
years to 19 years in these cases. In none of the cases were potential confounders reported that could 
explain the events. In two cases, insulin glargine was the only insulin used. In the remaining cases, 
insulin glargine was used concomitantly with other insulins. These well-documented pharmacovigilance 
cases in which the event is confirmed with histopathology provide sufficient evidence to establish an 
association between insulin glargine and ‘cutaneous amyloidosis’. Therefore, the Product Information 
should be amended in order to include the adverse drug reaction (ADR) ‘cutaneous amyloidosis’ and to 
amend method of administration instructions accordingly. The SmPC should also be amended to include 
the ADR ‘lipodystrophy’ in line with the Package Leaflet. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for insulin glargine / lixisenatide the CHMP is of the opinion 
that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing insulin glargine / lixisenatide is 
unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/122177/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
