20 September 2018 
EMA/CHMP/635393/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vabomere 
meropenem / vaborbactam 
On 20 September 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vabomere, 
intended for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal and urinary tract infections, hospital-acquired 
pneumonia, bacteraemia that occurs in association with any of these infections and infections due to aerobic 
Gram-negative organisms where treatment options are limited. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Rempex London Ltd. 
Vabomere is a fixed dose combination of two active substances, meropenem and vaborbactam (ATC code: 
J01DH52), and will be available as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (1 g/1 g). Meropenem 
is a known beta-lactam (belonging to the class of carbapenems) which acts by inhibiting the formation of the 
peptidoglycan, an important component of the bacterial cell wall. Vaborbactam, a beta-lactamase inhibitor 
of a new class (cyclic boronates), prevents certain classes of beta-lactamases (class A and class C) from 
hydrolysing meropenem and therefore restores its activity in many infections due to carbapenem-resistant 
Enterobacteriaceae. 
Vabomere, through its antibacterial action, has been shown to be effective at treating the above-mentioned 
infections. The most common side effects are headache, diarrhoea, infusion site phlebitis and nausea. 
The full indication is:  
"Vabomere is indicated for the treatment of the following infections in adults (see sections 4.4 and 
5.1): 
•  Complicated urinary tract infection (cUTI), including pyelonephritis  
•  Complicated intra-abdominal infection (cIAI) 
•  Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), including ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP). 
Treatment of patients with bacteraemia that occurs in association with, or is suspected to be 
associated with, any of the infections listed above. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Vabomere is also indicated for the treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms 
in adults with limited treatment options (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents."  
It is proposed that Vabomere be prescribed to treat infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms in 
adult patients with limited treatment options only after consultation with a physician with appropriate 
experience in the management of infectious diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Vabomere  
EMA/CHMP/635393/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
