ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard c apsules 
Each hard capsule contains 12.5 mg of sunitinib. 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard c apsules 
Each hard capsule contains 25 mg of sunitinib. 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard c apsules 
Each hard capsule contains 37.5 mg of sunitinib. 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard c apsules 
Each hard capsule contains 50 mg of sunitinib. 
For the full list  of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule (capsule) 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
Gelatin capsules of size 4 (approximate length 14.3 mm) with orange cap and orange body, printed 
with white ink “12.5 mg” on the body, and containing yellow to orange granules. 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
Gelatin capsules of size 3 (approximate length 15.9 mm) with caramel cap and orange body, printed 
with white ink “25 mg” on the body, and containing yellow to orange granules. 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
Gelatin capsules of size 2 (approximate length 18.0 mm) with yellow cap and yellow body, printed 
with black ink “37.5 mg” on the body, and containing yellow to orange granules. 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules 
Gelatin capsule of size 1 (approximate length 19.4 mm) with caramel cap and caramel body, printed 
with white ink “50 mg” on the body, and containing yellow to orange granules. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) 
Sunitinib Accord is indicated for the treatment of unresectable and/or metastatic malignant 
gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) in adults after failure of imatinib treatment due to resistance or 
intolerance.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (MRCC) 
Sunitinib Accord is indicated for the treatment of advanced/metastatic renal cell carcinoma (MRCC) 
in adults. 
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (pNET) 
Sunitinib Accord is indicated for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well-differentiated 
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (pNET) with disease progression in adults.   
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy with Sunitinib Accord should be initiated by a physician experienced in the administration of 
anticancer agents.  
Posology 
For GIST and MRCC, the recommended dose of Sunitinib Accord is 50 mg taken orally once daily, 
for 4 consecutive weeks, followed by a 2-week rest period (Schedule 4/2) to comprise a complete 
cycle of 6 weeks.  
For pNET, the recommended dose of Sunitinib Accord is 37.5 mg taken orally once daily without a 
scheduled rest period. 
Dose adjustments 
Safety and tolerability  
For GIST and MRCC, dose modifications in 12.5 mg steps may be applied based on individual safety 
and tolerability. Daily dose should not exceed 75 mg nor be decreased below 25 mg. 
For pNET, dose modification in 12.5 mg steps may be applied based on individual safety and 
tolerability. The maximum dose administered in the Phase 3 pNET study was 50 mg daily. 
Dose interruptions may be required based on individual safety and tolerability. 
CYP3A4 inhibitors/inducers  
Co-administration of sunitinib with potent CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampicin, should be avoided 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.5). If this is not possible, the dose of sunitinib may need to be increased in 
12.5 mg steps (up to 87.5 mg per day for GIST and MRCC or 62.5 mg per day for pNET) based on 
careful monitoring of tolerability. 
Co-administration of sunitinib with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole, should be 
avoided (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). If this is not possible, the dose of sunitinib may need to be reduced 
to a minimum of 37.5 mg daily for GIST and MRCC or 25 mg daily for pNET, based on careful 
monitoring of tolerability.  
Selection of an alternative concomitant medicinal product with no or minimal potential to induce or 
inhibit CYP3A4 should be considered. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of Sunitinib  in patients below 18 years of age have not been established. 
Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1, and 5.2 but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
Approximately one-third of the patients in clinical studies who received sunitinib were 65 years of age 
or over. No significant differences in safety or efficacy were observed between younger and older 
patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
No starting dose adjustment is recommended when administering sunitinib to patients with mild or 
moderate (Child-Pugh class A and B) hepatic impairment. Sunitinib has not been studied in subjects 
with severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment and therefore its use in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment cannot be recommended (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No starting dose adjustment is required when administering sunitinib to patients with renal impairment 
(mild-severe) or with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on haemodialysis. Subsequent dose adjustments 
should be based on individual safety and tolerability (see section 5.2). 
Method of administration 
Sunitinib Accord is for oral administration. It may be taken with or without food.  
If a dose is missed, the patient should not be given an additional dose. The patient should take the 
usual prescribed dose on the following day. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Co-administration with potent CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided because it may decrease sunitinib 
plasma concentration (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Co-administration with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should be avoided because it may increase the 
plasma concentration of sunitinib (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Skin and tissue disorders 
Patients should be advised that depigmentation of the hair or skin may occur during treatment with 
sunitinib. Other possible dermatological effects may include dryness, thickness or cracking of the skin, 
blisters, or rash on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. 
The above reactions were not cumulative, were typically reversible, and generally did not result in 
treatment discontinuation. Cases of pyoderma gangrenosum, generally reversible after discontinuation 
of sunitinib, have been reported. Severe cutaneous reactions have been reported, including cases of 
erythema multiforme (EM), cases suggestive of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal 
necrolysis (TEN), some of which were fatal. If signs or symptoms of SJS, TEN, or EM 
(e.g., progressive skin rash often with blisters or mucosal lesions) are present, sunitinib treatment 
should be discontinued. If the diagnosis of SJS or TEN is confirmed, treatment must not be restarted. 
In some cases of suspected EM, patients tolerated the reintroduction of sunitinib therapy at a lower 
dose after resolution of the reaction; some of these patients also received concomitant treatment with 
corticosteroids or antihistamines (see section 4.8). 
Haemorrhage and tumour bleeding 
Haemorrhagic events, some of which were fatal, reported in clinical studies with sunitinib and during 
pos-tmarketing surveillance have included gastrointestinal, respiratory, urinary tract, and brain 
haemorrhages (see section 4.8). 
Routine assessment of bleeding events should include complete blood counts and physical 
examination. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Epistaxis was the most common haemorrhagic adverse reaction, having been reported for 
approximately half of the patients with solid tumours who experienced haemorrhagic events. Some of 
the epistaxis events were severe, but very rarely fatal. 
Events of tumour haemorrhage, sometimes associated with tumour necrosis, have been reported; some 
of these haemorrhagic events were fatal. 
Tumour haemorrhage may occur suddenly, and in the case of pulmonary tumours, may present as 
severe and life-threatening haemoptysis or pulmonary haemorrhage. Cases of pulmonary 
haemorrhage, some with a fatal outcome, have been observed in clinical studies and have been 
reported in postmarketing experience in patients treated with sunitinib for MRCC, GIST, and lung 
cancer. sunitinib is not approved for use in patients with lung cancer.  
Patients receiving concomitant treatment with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin, acenocoumarole) may be 
periodically monitored by complete blood counts (platelets), coagulation factors (PT/INR), and 
physical examination. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoea, nausea/vomiting, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, and stomatitis/oral pain were the most 
commonly reported gastrointestinal adverse reactions; oesophagitis events have been also reported 
(see section 4.8).  
Supportive care for gastrointestinal adverse reactions requiring treatment may include medicinal 
products with antiemetic, antidiarrhoeal, or antacid properties. 
Serious, sometimes fatal gastrointestinal complications including gastrointestinal perforation were 
reported in patients with intra-abdominal malignancies treated with sunitinib.  
Hypertension 
Hypertension has been reported in association with sunitinib, including severe hypertension 
(> 200 mmHg systolic or 110 mmHg diastolic). Patients should be screened for hypertension and 
controlled as appropriate. Temporary suspension is recommended in patients with severe hypertension 
that is not controlled with medical management. Treatment may be resumed once hypertension is 
appropriately controlled (see section 4.8).  
Haematological disorders 
Decreased absolute neutrophil counts and decreased platelet counts were reported in association with 
sunitinib (see section 4.8). The above events were not cumulative, were typically reversible, and 
generally did not result in treatment discontinuation. None of these events in the Phase 3 studies were 
fatal, but rare fatal haematological events, including haemorrhage associated with thrombocytopenia 
and neutropenic infections, have been reported during postmarketing surveillance. 
Anaemia has been observed to occur early as well as late during treatment with sunitinib. 
Complete blood counts should be performed at the beginning of each treatment cycle for patients 
receiving treatment with sunitinib (see section 4.8). 
Cardiac disorders 
Cardiovascular events, including heart failure, cardiomyopathy, left ventricular ejection fraction 
decline to below the lower limit of normal, myocarditis, myocardial ischaemia and myocardial 
infarction, some of which were fatal, have been reported in patients treated with sunitinib. These data 
suggest that sunitinib increases the risk of cardiomyopathy. No specific additional risk factors for 
sunitinib-induced cardiomyopathy apart from the drug-specific effect have been identified in the 
treated patients. Use sunitinib with caution in patients who are at risk for, or who have a history of, 
these events (see section 4.8). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who presented with cardiac events within 12 months prior to sunitinib administration, such as 
myocardial infarction (including severe/unstable angina), coronary/peripheral artery bypass graft, 
symptomatic congestive heart failure (CHF), cerebrovascular accident or transient ischaemic attack, or 
pulmonary embolism were excluded from all sunitinib clinical studies. It is unknown whether patients 
with these concomitant conditions may be at a higher risk of developing sunitinib-related left 
ventricular dysfunction. 
Physicians are advised to weigh this risk against the potential benefits of sunitinib. Patients should be 
carefully monitored for clinical signs and symptoms of CHF while receiving sunitinib especially 
patients with cardiac risk factors and/or history of coronary artery disease. Baseline and periodic 
evaluations of LVEF should also be considered while the patient is receiving sunitinib. In patients 
without cardiac risk factors, a baseline evaluation of ejection fraction should be considered. 
In the presence of clinical manifestations of CHF, discontinuation of sunitinib is recommended. The 
administration of sunitinib should be interrupted and/or the dose reduced in patients without clinical 
evidence of CHF but with an ejection fraction < 50% and > 20% below baseline. 
QT interval prolongation 
Prolongation of QT interval and Torsade de pointes have been observed in sunitinib-exposed patients. 
QT interval prolongation may lead to an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias including 
Torsade de pointes.  
Sunitinib should be used with caution in patients with a known history of QT interval prolongation, 
patients who are taking antiarrhythmics or medicinal products that can prolong QT interval, or patients 
with relevant pre-existing cardiac disease, bradycardia, or electrolyte disturbances. Concomitant 
administration of sunitinib with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should be limited because of the possible 
increase in sunitinib plasma concentrations (see sections 4.2, 4.5 and 4.8). 
Venous thromboembolic events 
Treatment-related venous thromboembolic events were reported in patients who received sunitinib 
including deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism (see section 4.8). Cases of pulmonary 
embolism with fatal outcome have been observed in postmarketing surveillance.  
Arterial thromboembolic events 
Cases of arterial thromboembolic events (ATE), sometimes fatal, have been reported in patients 
treated with sunitinib. The most frequent events included cerebrovascular accident, transient ischaemic 
attack, and cerebral infarction. Risk factors associated with ATE, in addition to the underlying 
malignant disease and age ≥ 65 years, included hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and prior 
thromboembolic disease. 
Aneurysms and artery dissections 
The use of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway inhibitors in patients with or without 
hypertension may promote the formation of aneurysms and/or artery dissections. Before initiating 
sunitinib therapy, this risk should be carefully considered in patients with risk factors such as 
hypertension or history of aneurysm.  
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) 
The diagnosis of TMA, including thrombotic thrombocytopaenic purpura (TTP) and haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome (HUS), sometimes leading to renal failure or a fatal outcome, should be considered 
in the occurrence of haemolytic anaemia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue, fluctuating neurological 
manifestation, renal impairment, and fever. Sunitinib therapy should be discontinued in patients who 
develop TMA and prompt treatment is required. Reversal of the effects of TMA has been observed 
after treatment discontinuation (see section 4.8). 
Thyroid dysfunction  
Baseline laboratory measurement of thyroid function is recommended in all patients. Patients with 
pre-existing hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism should be treated as per standard medical practice 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
prior to the start of sunitinib treatment. During sunitinib treatment, routine monitoring of thyroid 
function should be performed every 3 months. In addition, patients should be observed closely for 
signs and symptoms of thyroid dysfunction during treatment, and patients who develop any signs 
and/or symptoms suggestive of thyroid dysfunction should have laboratory testing of thyroid function 
performed as clinically indicated. Patients who develop thyroid dysfunction should be treated as per 
standard medical practice. 
Hypothyroidism has been observed to occur early as well as late during treatment with sunitinib (see 
section 4.8). 
Pancreatitis  
Increases in serum lipase and amylase activities were observed in patients with various solid tumours 
who received sunitinib. Increases in lipase activities were transient and were generally not 
accompanied by signs or symptoms of pancreatitis in subjects with various solid tumours (see section 
4.8).  
Cases of serious pancreatic events, some with fatal outcome, have been reported. If symptoms of 
pancreatitis are present, patients should have sunitinib discontinued and be provided with appropriate 
supportive care. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Hepatotoxicity has been observed in patients treated with sunitinib. Cases of hepatic failure, some with 
a fatal outcome, were observed in < 1% of solid tumour patients treated with sunitinib. Monitor liver 
function tests (alanine transaminase [ALT], aspartate transaminase [AST], bilirubin levels) before 
initiation of treatment, during each cycle of treatment, and as clinically indicated. If signs or symptoms 
of hepatic failure are present, sunitinib should be discontinued and appropriate supportive care should 
be provided (see section 4.8).  
Renal function 
Cases of renal impairment, renal failure and/or acute renal failure, in some cases with fatal outcome, 
have been reported (see section 4.8). 
Risk factors associated with renal impairment/failure in patients receiving sunitinib included, in 
addition to underlying RCC, older age, diabetes mellitus, underlying renal impairment, cardiac failure, 
hypertension, sepsis, dehydration/hypovolaemia, and rhabdomyolysis. 
The safety of continued sunitinib treatment in patients with moderate to severe proteinuria has not 
been systematically evaluated.  
Cases of proteinuria and rare cases of nephrotic syndrome have been reported. Baseline urinalysis is 
recommended, and patients should be monitored for the development or worsening of proteinuria. 
Discontinue sunitinib in patients with nephrotic syndrome. 
Fistula 
If fistula formation occurs, sunitinib treatment should be interrupted. Limited information is available 
on the continued use of sunitinib in patients with fistulae (see section 4.8). 
Impaired wound healing 
Cases of impaired wound healing have been reported during sunitinib therapy. 
No formal clinical studies of the effect of sunitinib on wound healing have been conducted. 
Temporary interruption of sunitinib therapy is recommended for precautionary reasons in patients 
undergoing major surgical procedures. There is limited clinical experience regarding the timing of 
reinitiation of therapy following major surgical intervention. Therefore, the decision to resume 
sunitinib therapy following a major surgical intervention should be based upon clinical judgment of 
recovery from surgery. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) 
Cases of ONJ have been reported in patients treated with sunitinib . The majority of cases were 
reported in patients who had received prior or concomitant treatment with intravenous 
bisphosphonates, for which ONJ is an identified risk. Caution should therefore be exercised when 
sunitinib  and intravenous bisphosphonates are used either simultaneously or sequentially. 
Invasive dental procedures are also an identified risk factor. Prior to treatment with sunitinib , a dental 
examination and appropriate preventive dentistry should be considered. In patients who have 
previously received or are receiving intravenous bisphosphonates, invasive dental procedures should 
be avoided if possible (see section 4.8). 
Hypersensitivity/angioedema 
If angioedema due to hypersensitivity occurs, sunitinib treatment should be interrupted and standard 
medical care provided (see section 4.8). 
Seizures 
In clinical studies of sunitinib and from postmarketing surveillance, seizures have been reported. 
Patients with seizures and signs/symptoms consistent with posterior reversible leukoencephalopathy 
syndrome (RPLS), such as hypertension, headache, decreased alertness, altered mental functioning 
and visual loss, including cortical blindness, should be controlled with medical management including 
control of hypertension. Temporary suspension of sunitinib is recommended; following resolution, 
treatment may be resumed at the discretion of the treating physician (see section 4.8). 
Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) 
Cases of TLS, some fatal, have been rarely observed in clinical studies and have been reported in 
postmarketing surveillance in patients treated with sunitinib. Risk factors for TLS include high tumour 
burden, pre-existing chronic renal insufficiency, oliguria, dehydration, hypotension, and acidic urine. 
These patients should be monitored closely and treated as clinically indicated, and prophylactic 
hydration should be considered. 
Infections 
Serious infections, with or without neutropenia, including some with a fatal outcome, have been 
reported. Uncommon cases of necrotising fasciitis, including of the perineum, sometimes fatal, have 
been reported (see section 4.8).  
Sunitinib therapy should be discontinued in patients who develop necrotising fasciitis, and appropriate 
treatment should be promptly initiated. 
Hypoglycaemia 
Decreases in blood glucose, in some cases clinically symptomatic and requiring hospitalisation due to 
loss of consciousness, have been reported during sunitinib treatment. In case of symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia, sunitinib should be temporarily interrupted. Blood glucose levels in diabetic patients 
should be checked regularly in order to assess if antidiabetic medicinal product’s doses needs to be 
adjusted to minimise the risk of hypoglycaemia (see section 4.8). 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium (croscarmellose sodium) per one 
capsule, that is to say essentially “sodium-free“. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Medicinal products that may increase sunitinib plasma concentrations 
Effect of CYP3A4 inhibitors 
In healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of a single dose of sunitinib with the potent 
CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole resulted in an increase of the combined [sunitinib + primary 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolite] maximum concentration (Cmax) and area under the curve (AUC0-∞) values of 49% and 
51%, respectively. 
Administration of sunitinib with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, itraconazole, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, grapefruit juice) may increase sunitinib concentrations. 
Combination with CYP3A4 inhibitors should therefore be avoided, or the selection of an alternate 
concomitant medicinal product with no or minimal potential to inhibit CYP3A4 should be considered. 
If this is not possible, the dose of sunitinib may need to be reduced to a minimum of 37.5 mg daily for 
GIST and MRCC or 25 mg daily for pNET, based on careful monitoring of tolerability (see 
section 4.2). 
Effect of Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) inhibitors 
Limited clinical data are available on the interaction between sunitinib and BCRP inhibitors and the 
possibility of an interaction between sunitinib and other BCRP inhibitors cannot be excluded (see 
section 5.2). 
Medicinal products that may decrease sunitinib plasma concentrations 
Effect of CYP3A4 inducers 
In healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of a single dose of sunitinib with the 
CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin resulted in a reduction of the combined [sunitinib + primary metabolite] 
Cmax and AUC0-∞ values of 23% and 46%, respectively. 
Administration of sunitinib with potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., dexamethasone, phenytoin, 
carbamazepine, rifampicin, phenobarbital or herbal preparations containing St. John’s 
Wort/Hypericum perforatum) may decrease sunitinib concentrations. Combination with 
CYP3A4 inducers should therefore be avoided, or selection of an alternate concomitant medicinal 
product, with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A4 should be considered. If this is not possible, 
the dose of sunitinib may need to be increased in 12.5 mg increments (up to 87.5 mg per day for GIST 
and MRCC or 62.5 mg per day for pNET), based on careful monitoring of tolerability (see 
section 4.2). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
 Women of childbearing/ContraceptionWomen of childbearing potential should be advised to use 
effective contraception and avoid becoming pregnant while receiving treatment with sunitinib.  
Pregnancy  
There are no studies in pregnant women using sunitinib. Studies in animals have shown reproductive 
toxicity including foetal malformations (see section 5.3). sunitinib should not be used during 
pregnancy or in women not using effective contraception, unless the potential benefit justifies the 
potential risk to the foetus. If sunitinib is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant 
while on treatment with sunitinib, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the foetus.   
Breast-feeding 
Sunitinib and/or its metabolites are excreted in rat milk. It is not known whether sunitinib or its 
primary active metabolite is excreted in human milk. Because active substances are commonly 
excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breast-feeding 
infants, women should not breast-feed while taking sunitinib. 
Fertility 
Based on nonclinical findings, male and female fertility may be compromised by treatment with 
sunitinib (see section 5.3). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Sunitinib has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be advised that 
they may experience dizziness during treatment with sunitinib. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most serious adverse reactions associated with sunitinib, some fatal, are renal failure, heart failure, 
pulmonary embolism, gastrointestinal perforation, and haemorrhages (e.g., respiratory tract, 
gastrointestinal, tumour, urinary tract, and brain haemorrhages). The most common adverse reactions 
of any grade (experienced by patients in RCC, GIST, and pNET registrational trials) included 
decreased appetite, taste disturbance, hypertension, fatigue, gastrointestinal disorders (i.e. diarrhoea, 
nausea, stomatitis, dyspepsia, and vomiting), skin discolouration, and palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia syndrome. These symptoms may diminish as treatment continues. 
Hypothyroidism may develop during treatment. Haematological disorders (e.g., neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia, and anaemia) are amongst the most common adverse drug reactions. 
Fatal events other than those listed in section 4.4 above or in section 4.8 below that were considered 
possibly related to sunitinib included multi-system organ failure, disseminated intravascular 
coagulation, peritoneal haemorrhage, adrenal insufficiency, pneumothorax, shock, and sudden death. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions that were reported in GIST, MRCC, and pNET patients in a pooled dataset of 
7,115 patients are listed below, by system organ class, frequency and grade of severity (NCI-CTCAE). 
Post-marketing adverse reactions identified in clinical studies are also included. Within each 
frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 
to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). 
Table 1.  Adverse reactions reported in clinical studies  
System organ class  Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders  
Neutropoenia  
Thrombocytopoenia 
Anaemia  
Leukopoenia  
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Hypothyroidism  
Decreased appetite1 
Insomnia  
Dizziness  
Headache  
Taste disturbancej  
Necrotising 
fasciitis* 
Bacterial infectionsg 
Viral infections* 
Respiratory 
infectionsb,*  
Abscessc,*  
Fungal infectionsd  
Urinary tract infection  
Skin infectionse  
Sepsisf,*  
Lymphopoenia  
Pancytopenia 
Rare 
Not known 
Thrombotic 
microangiopathyh,* 
Hypersensitivity 
Angioedema  
Hyperthyroidism 
Thyroiditis   
Dehydration 
Hypoglycaemia  
Depression  
Neuropathy peripheral  
Paraesthesia  
Hypoaesthesia  
Hyperaesthesia  
Cerebral 
haemorrhage* 
Cerebrovascular 
accident* 
Transient ischaemic 
attack 
Tumour lysis 
syndrome*  
Posterior reversible 
encephalopathy 
syndrome*  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class  Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Left ventricular 
failure*  
Torsade de pointes  
Aneurysms 
and artery 
dissections* 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders  Hypertension  
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Dyspnoea  
Epistaxis  
Cough  
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Stomatitiso  
Abdominal painp  
Vomiting  
Diarrhoea  
Dyspepsia  
Nausea  
Constipation  
Cardiac failure 
congestive 
Myocardial 
infarctionm,* 
Cardiac failure* 
Cardiomyopathy* 
Pericardial effusion 
Electrocardiogram 
QT prolonged  
Tumour 
haemorrhage* 
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage* 
Respiratory failure* 
Gastrointestinal 
perforationq,* 
Pancreatitis 
Anal fistula 
Colitisr 
Periorbital oedema  
Eyelid oedema  
Lacrimation increased  
Myocardial 
ischemiak,*  
Ejection fraction 
decreased1 
Deep vein thrombosis  
Hot flush 
Flushing  
Pulmonary embolism*  
Pleural effusion*  
Haemoptysis  
Dyspnoea exertional  
Oropharyngeal painn  
Nasal congestion  
Nasal dryness  
Gastro-oesophageal 
reflux disease  
Dysphagia  
Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage*  
Oesophagitis*  
Abdominal distension  
Abdominal discomfort  
Rectal haemorrhage  
Gingival bleeding  
Mouth ulceration  
Proctalgia  
Cheilitis  
Haemorrhoids  
Glossodynia 
Oral pain  
Dry mouth  
Flatulence  
Oral discomfort  
Eructation  
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Skin discolourationt  
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome  
Rashu 
Hair colour changes  
Dry skin  
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Pain in extremity  
Arthralgia  
Back pain  
Hepatitis 
Hepatic failure* 
Cholecystitiss,* 
Hepatic function 
abnormal 
Erythema 
multiforme* 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome*  
Pyoderma 
gangrenosum  
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis*  
Osteonecrosis of the 
jaw 
Fistula* 
Rhabdomyolysis*  
Myopathy  
Skin exfoliation  
Skin reactionv  
Eczema  
Blister  
Erythema  
Alopecia  
Acne 
Pruritus  
Skin 
hyperpigmentation 
Skin lesion  
Hyperkeratosis  
Dermatitis  
Nail disorderw  
Musculoskeletal pain  
Muscle spasms  
Myalgia  
Muscular weakness  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class  Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Mucosal inflammation  
Fatiguex  
Oedemay  
Pyrexia  
Investigations 
Haemorrhage 
urinary tract 
Nephrotic syndrome   
Impaired healing 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased 
Blood thyroid 
stimulating 
hormone increased 
Renal failure*  
Renal failure acute*  
Chromaturia 
Proteinuria  
Chest pain  
Pain  
Influenza like illness 
Chills    
Weight decreased  
White blood cell count 
decreased  
Lipase increased  
Platelet count 
decreased  
Haemoglobin 
decreased  
Amylase increasedz  
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased  
Alanine 
aminotransferase 
increased  
Blood creatinine 
increased  
Blood pressure 
increased  
Blood uric acid 
increased  
Including fatal events.  
* 
The following terms have been combined:   
a   Nasopharyngitis and oral herpes. 
b 
c 
k 
Bronchitis, lower respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, and respiratory tract infection. 
Abscess, abscess limb, anal abscess, gingival abscess, liver abscess, pancreatic abscess, perineal abscess, perirectal 
abscess, rectal abscess, subcutaneous abscess, and tooth abscess. 
Oesophageal candidiasis and oral candidiasis. 
Cellulitis and skin infection. 
Sepsis and sepsis shock. 
d 
e 
f 
g  Abdominal abscess, abdominal sepsis, diverticulitis, and osteomyelitis. 
h 
i 
j 
Thrombotic microangiopathy, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, and haemolytic uraemic syndrome. 
Decreased appetite and anorexia 
Dysgeusia, ageusia, and taste disturbance. 
Acute coronary syndrome, angina pectoris, angina unstable, coronary artery occlusion, and myocardial ischaemia.  
Ejection fraction decreased/abnormal. 
l 
m  Acute myocardial infarction, myocardial infarction, and silent myocardial infarction. 
n  Oropharyngeal and pharyngolaryngeal pain.  
o 
Stomatitis and aphtous stomatitis. 
Abdominal pain, abdominal pain lower, and abdominal pain upper. 
p 
q  Gastrointestinal perforation and intestinal perforation. 
r 
s 
t 
Colitis and colitis ischaemic. 
Cholecystitis and acalculous cholecystitis. 
Yellow skin, skin discolouration, and pigmentation disorder. 
Dermatitis psoriasiform, exfoliative rash, rash, rash erythematous, rash follicular, rash generalised, rash macular, rash 
maculo-papular, rash papular, and rash pruritic. 
v 
Skin reaction and skin disorder. 
w  Nail disorder and discolouration. 
x 
y 
z 
Fatigue and asthenia. 
Face oedema, oedema, and oedema peripheral. 
Amylase and amylase increased. 
u 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Cases of serious infection (with or without neutropenia), including cases with fatal outcome, have 
been reported. Cases of necrotising fasciitis, including of the perineum, sometimes fatal, have been 
reported (see also section 4.4). 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Decreased absolute neutrophil counts of Grade 3 and 4 severities, respectively, were reported in 10% 
and 1.7% of patients on the Phase 3 GIST study, in 16% and 1.6% of patients on the Phase 3 MRCC 
study, and in 13% and 2.4% of patients on the Phase 3 pNET study. Decreased platelet counts of 
Grade 3 and 4 severities, respectively, were reported in 3.7% and 0.4% of patients on the Phase 3 
GIST study, in 8.2% and 1.1% of patients on the Phase 3 MRCC study, and in 3.7% and 1.2% of 
patients on the Phase 3 pNET study (see section 4.4). 
Bleeding events were reported in 18% of patients receiving sunitinib in a Phase 3 GIST study vs 17% 
of patients receiving placebo. In patients receiving sunitinib for treatment-naïve MRCC, 39% had 
bleeding events vs 11% of patients receiving interferon-α (IFN-α). Seventeen (4.5%) patients on 
sunitinib versus 5 (1.7%) patients on IFN-α experienced Grade 3 or greater bleeding events. Of 
patients receiving sunitinib for cytokine-refractory MRCC, 26% experienced bleeding. Bleeding 
events, excluding epistaxis, were reported in 21.7% of patients receiving sunitinib in the Phase 3 
pNET study compared to 9.85% of patients receiving placebo (see section 4.4) 
In clinicalstudies, tumour haemorrhage was reported in approximately 2% of patients with GIST. 
Immune system disorders 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, have been reported (see section 4.4). 
Endocrine disorders 
Hypothyroidism was reported as an adverse reaction in 7 patients (4%) receiving sunitinib across the 
2 cytokine-refractory MRCC studies; in 61 patients (16%) on sunitinib and 3 patients (< 1%) in the 
IFN-α arm in the treatment-naïve MRCC study.  
Additionally, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) elevations were reported in 4 cytokine-refractory 
MRCC patients (2%). Overall, 7% of the MRCC population had either clinical or laboratory evidence 
of treatment-emergent hypothyroidism. Acquired hypothyroidism was noted in 6.2% of GIST patients 
on sunitinib versus 1% on placebo. In the Phase 3 pNET study hypothyroidism was reported in 
6 patients (7.2%) receiving sunitinib and in 1 patient (1.2%) on placebo. 
Thyroid function was monitored prospectively in 2 studies in patients with breast cancer; sunitinib is 
not approved for use in breast cancer. In 1 study, hypothyroidism was reported in 15 (13.6%) patients 
on sunitinib and 3 (2.9%) patients on standard of care. Blood TSH increase was reported in 1 (0.9%) 
patient on sunitinib and no patients on standard of care. Hyperthyroidism was reported in no 
sunitinib-treated patients and 1 (1.0%) patient receiving standard of care. In the other study 
hypothyroidism was reported in a total of 31 (13%) patients on sunitinib and 2 (0.8%) patients on 
capecitabine. Blood TSH increase was reported in 12 (5.0%) patients on sunitinib and no patients on 
capecitabine. Hyperthyroidism was reported in 4 (1.7%) patients on sunitinib and no patients on 
capecitabine. Blood TSH decrease was reported in 3 (1.3%) patients on sunitinib and no patients on 
capecitabine. T4 increase was reported in 2 (0.8%) patients on sunitinib and 1 (0.4%) patient on 
capecitabine. T3 increase was reported in 1 (0.8%) patient on sunitinib and no patients on 
capecitabine. All thyroid-related events reported were Grade 1-2 (see section 4.4). 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
A higher incidence rate of hypoglycaemia events was reported in patients with pNET in comparison to 
MRCC and GIST. Nevertheless, most of these adverse events observed in clinical studies were not 
considered related to study treatment (see section 4.4). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nervous system disorders 
In clinical studies of sunitinib and from post-marketing surveillance, there have been few reports 
(< 1%), some fatal, of subjects presenting with seizures and radiological evidence of RPLS. Seizures 
have been observed in patients with or without radiological evidence of brain metastases (see section 
4.4). 
Cardiac disorders 
In clinicalstudies, decreases in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of ≥ 20% and below the lower 
limit of normal were reported in approximately 2% of sunitinib-treated GIST patients, 4% of 
cytokine-refractory MRCC patients, and 2% of placebo-treated GIST patients. These LVEF declines 
do not appear to have been progressive and often improved as treatment continued. In the 
treatment-naïve MRCC study, 27% of patients on sunitinib and 15% of patients on IFN-α had an 
LVEF value below the lower limit of normal. Two patients (< 1%) who received sunitinib were 
diagnosed with CHF.  
In GIST patients ‘cardiac failure’, ‘cardiac failure congestive’, or ‘left ventricular failure’ were 
reported in 1.2% of patients treated with sunitinib and 1% of patients treated with placebo. In the 
pivotal Phase 3 GIST study (N = 312), treatment-related fatal cardiac reactions were reported in 1% of 
patients on each arm of the study (i.e. sunitinib and placebo arms). In a Phase 2 study in 
cytokine-refractory MRCC patients, 0.9% of patients experienced treatment-related fatal myocardial 
infarction and in the Phase 3 study in treatment-naïve MRCC patients, 0.6% of patients on the IFN-α 
arm and 0% of patients on the sunitinib arm experienced fatal cardiac events. In the Phase 3 pNET 
study, 1 (1%) patient who received sunitinib had treatment-related fatal cardiac failure.  
Vascular disorders  
Hypertension 
Hypertension was a very common adverse reaction reported in clinicalstudies. The dose of sunitinib 
was reduced or its administration temporarily suspended in approximately 2.7% of the patients who 
experienced hypertension. Sunitinib was not permanently discontinued in any of these patients. Severe 
hypertension (> 200 mmHg systolic or 110 mmHg diastolic) was reported in 4.7% of patients with 
solid tumours. Hypertension was reported in approximately 33.9% of patients receiving sunitinib for 
treatment-naïve MRCC compared to 3.6% of patients receiving IFN-α. Severe hypertension was 
reported in 12% of treatment-naïve patients on sunitinib and < 1% of patients on IFN-α. Hypertension 
was reported in 26.5% of patients receiving sunitinib in a Phase 3 pNET study, compared to 4.9% of 
patients receiving placebo. Severe hypertension was reported in 10% of pNET patients on sunitinib 
and 3% of patients on placebo. 
Venous thromboembolic events 
Treatment-related venous thromboembolic events were reported in approximately 1.0% of patients 
with solid tumours who received sunitinib on clinicalstudies, including GIST and RCC. 
Seven patients (3%) on sunitinib and none on placebo in a Phase 3 GIST study experienced venous 
thromboembolic events; 5 of the 7 were Grade 3 deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and 2 were Grade 1 
or 2. Four of these 7 GIST patients discontinued treatment following first observation of DVT. 
Thirteen patients (3%) receiving sunitinib in the Phase 3 treatment-naïve MRCC study and 4 patients 
(2%) on the 2 cytokine-refractory MRCC studies had venous thromboembolic events reported. Nine of 
these patients had pulmonary embolisms; 1 was Grade 2 and 8 were Grade 4. Eight of these patients 
had DVT; 1 with Grade 1, 2 with Grade 2, 4 with Grade 3, and 1 with Grade 4. One patient with 
pulmonary embolism in the cytokine-refractory MRCC study experienced dose interruption. 
In treatment-naïve MRCC patients receiving IFN-α, 6 (2%) venous thromboembolic events were 
reported; 1 patient (< 1%) experienced a Grade 3 DVT and 5 patients (1%) had pulmonary embolisms, 
all with Grade 4. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Venous thromboembolic events were reported for 1 (1.2%) patient in the sunitinib arm and 5 (6.1%) 
patients in the placebo arm in the Phase 3 pNET study. Two of these patients on placebo had DVT, 
1 with Grade 2 and 1 with Grade 3. 
No cases with fatal outcome were reported in GIST, MRCC, and pNET registrational studies. Cases 
with fatal outcome have been observed in the postmarketing surveillance. 
Cases of pulmonary embolism were observed in approximately 3.1% of patients with GIST and in 
approximately 1.2% of patients with MRCC, who received sunitinib in Phase 3 studies. No pulmonary 
embolism was reported for patients with pNET who received sunitinib in the Phase 3 study. Rare cases 
with fatal outcome have been observed in the post-marketing surveillance. 
Patients who presented with pulmonary embolism within the previous 12 months were excluded from 
sunitinib clinical studies. 
In patients who received sunitinib in Phase 3 registrational studies, pulmonary events (i.e. dyspnoea, 
pleural effusion, pulmonary embolism, or pulmonary oedema) were reported in approximately 17.8% 
of patients with GIST, in approximately 26.7% of patients with MRCC and in 12% of patients with 
pNET. 
Approximately 22.2% of patients with solid tumours, including GIST and MRCC, who received 
sunitinib in clinical studies experienced pulmonary events. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Pancreatitis has been observed uncommonly (< 1%) in patients receiving sunitinib for GIST or 
MRCC. No treatment-related pancreatitis was reported in the Phase 3 pNET study (see section 4.4). 
Fatal gastrointestinal bleeding was reported in 0.98% of patients receiving placebo in the GIST Phase 
3 study. 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Hepatic dysfunction has been reported and may include Liver Function Test abnormalities, hepatitis, 
or liver failure (see section 4.4).  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Cases of pyoderma gangrenosum, generally reversible after discontinuation of sunitinib, have been 
reported (see also section 4.4). 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Cases of myopathy and/or rhabdomyolysis, some with acute renal failure, have been reported. Patients 
with signs or symptoms of muscle toxicity should be managed as per standard medical practice (see 
section 4.4). 
Cases of fistula formation, sometimes associated with tumour necrosis and regression, in some cases 
with fatal outcomes, have been reported (see section 4.4). 
Cases of ONJ have been reported in patients treated with sunitinib, most of which occurred in patients 
who had identified risk factors for ONJ, in particular, exposure to intravenous bisphosphonates and/or 
a history of dental disease requiring invasive dental procedures (see also section 4.4).  
Investigations 
Data from non clinical (in vitro and in vivo) studies, at doses higher than the recommended human 
dose, indicated that sunitinib has the potential to inhibit the cardiac action potential repolarisation 
process (e.g., prolongation of QT interval).  
Increases in the QTc interval to over 500 msec were reported in 0.5%, and changes from baseline in 
excess of 60 msec were reported in 1.1% of the 450 solid tumour patients; both of these parameters are 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recognised as potentially significant changes. At approximately twice therapeutic concentrations, 
sunitinib has been shown to prolong the QTcF interval (Fridericia corrected QT interval). 
QTc interval prolongation was investigated in a trial in 24 patients, ages 20-87 years, with advanced 
malignancies. The results of this study demonstrated that sunitinib had an effect on QTc interval 
(defined as a mean placebo-adjusted change of > 10 msec with a 90% confidence interval [CI] upper 
limit > 15 msec) at therapeutic concentration (Day 3) using the within-day baseline correction method, 
and at greater than therapeutic concentration (Day 9) using both baseline correction methods. No 
patients had a QTc interval > 500 msec. Although an effect on QTcF interval was observed on Day 3 
at 24 hours postdose (i.e., at therapeutic plasma concentration expected after the recommended starting 
dose of 50 mg) with the within-day baseline correction method, the clinical significance of this finding 
is unclear. 
Using comprehensive serial ECG assessments at times corresponding to either therapeutic or greater 
than therapeutic exposures, none of the patients in the evaluable or intent-to-treat (ITT) populations 
were observed to develop QTc interval prolongation considered as “severe” (i.e. equal to or greater 
than Grade 3 by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 3.0).  
At therapeutic plasma concentrations, the maximum QTcF interval (Frederica’s correction) mean 
change from baseline was 9 msec (90% CI: 15.1 msec). At approximately twice therapeutic 
concentrations, the maximum QTcF interval change from baseline was 15.4 msec (90% 
CI: 22.4 msec). Moxifloxacin (400 mg) used as a positive control showed a 5.6 msec maximum mean 
QTcF interval change from baseline. No subjects experienced an effect on the QTc interval greater 
than Grade 2 (CTCAE version 3.0) (see section 4.4). 
Long-term safety in MRCC 
The long-term safety of sunitinib in patients with MRCC was analysed across 9 completed clinical 
studies conducted in the first-line, bevacizumab-refractory, and cytokine-refractory treatment settings 
in 5,739 patients, of whom 807 (14%) were treated for ≥ 2 years up to 6 years. In the 807 patients who 
received long-term sunitinib treatment, most treatment-related adverse events (TRAEs) occurred 
initially in the first 6 months–1 year and then were stable or decreased in frequency over time, with the 
exception of hypothyroidism, which gradually increased over time, with new cases occurring over the 
6 year period. Prolonged treatment with sunitinib did not appear to be associated with new types of 
TRAEs. 
Paediatric population 
The safety profile of sunitinib has been derived from a Phase 1 dose-escalation study, a Phase 2 
open-label study, a Phase 1/2 single-arm study and from publications as described below. 
A phase 1 dose-escalation study of oral sunitinib was conducted in 35 patients comprised of 
30 paediatric patients (aged 3 years to 17 years) and 5 young adult patients (aged 18 to 21 years), with 
refractory solid tumours, the majority of whom had a primary diagnosis of brain tumour. All study 
participants experienced adverse drug reactions; most of these were severe (toxicity grade ≥ 3) and 
included cardiac toxicity. The most common adverse drug reactions were gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity, 
neutropenia, fatigue, and ALT elevation. The risk of cardiac adverse drug reactions appeared to be 
higher in paediatric patients with previous exposure to cardiac irradiation or anthracycline compared 
to those paediatric patients without previous exposure. In these paediatric patients without previous 
exposure to anthracyclines or cardiac irradiation, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been 
identified (see section 5.1). 
A phase 2 open-label study was conducted in 29 patients comprised of 27 paediatric patients (aged 
3 years to 16 years) and 2 young adult patients (aged 18 years to 19 years) with 
recurrent/progressive/refractory high grade glioma (HGG) or ependymoma. There were no Grade 5 
adverse reactions in either group. The most common (≥10%) treatment-related adverse events were 
neutrophil count decreased (6 [20.7%] patients) and haemorrhage intracranial (3[10.3%] patients). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Phase 1/2 single-arm, study was conducted in 6 paediatric patients (aged 13 years to 16 years) with 
advanced unresectable GIST. The most frequent adverse drug reactions were diarrhoea, nausea, WBC 
count decreased, neutropenia, and headache in 3 (50.0%) patients each, primarily Grade 1 or 2 in 
severity. Four out of 6 patients (66.7%) experienced Grade 3-4 treatment-related adverse events 
(Grade 3 hypophosphataemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia in 1 patient each and a Grade 4 
neutropenia in 1 patient). There were no serious adverse events (SAEs) or Grade 5 adverse drug 
reactions reported in this study. In both the clinical study and the publications, the safety profile was 
consistent with the known safety profile in adults.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with Sunitinib and treatment of overdose should consist of 
general supportive measures. If indicated, elimination of unabsorbed active substance may be achieved 
by emesis or gastric lavage. Cases of overdose have been reported; some cases were associated with 
adverse reactions consistent with the known safety profile of sunitinib. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors; ATC code: L01EX01 
Mechanism of action 
Sunitinib inhibits multiple RTKs that are implicated in tumour growth, neoangiogenesis, and 
metastatic progression of cancer. Sunitinib was identified as an inhibitor of platelet-derived growth 
factor receptors (PDGFRα and PDGFRβ), vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR1, 
VEGFR2, and VEGFR3), stem cell factor receptor (KIT), Fms-like tyrosine kinase-3 (FLT3), colony 
stimulating factor receptor (CSF-1R), and the glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor receptor 
(RET). The primary metabolite exhibits similar potency compared to sunitinib in biochemical and 
cellular assays. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The clinical safety and efficacy of sunitinib has been studied in the treatment of patients with GIST 
who were resistant to imatinib (i.e., those who experienced disease progression during or following 
treatment with imatinib) or intolerant to imatinib (i.e., those who experienced significant toxicity 
during treatment with imatinib that precluded further treatment), the treatment of patients with MRCC, 
and the treatment of patients with unresectable pNET.  
Efficacy is based on time-to-tumour progression (TTP) and an increase in survival in GIST, on 
progression-free survival (PFS) and objective response rates (ORR) for treatment-naïve and 
cytokine-refractory MRCC respectively, and on PFS for pNET. 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumours  
An initial open-label, dose-escalation study was conducted in patients with GIST after failure of 
imatinib (median maximum daily dose 800 mg) due to resistance or intolerance. Ninety-seven patients 
were enrolled at various doses and schedules; 55 patients received 50 mg at the recommended 
treatment Schedule 4 weeks on /2 weeks off (“Schedule 4/2”). 
In this study, the median TTP was 34.0 weeks (95% CI: 22.0, 46.0). 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A phase 3, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of sunitinib was conducted in patients 
with GIST who were intolerant to, or had experienced disease progression during or following 
treatment with imatinib (median maximum daily dose 800 mg). In this study, 312 patients were 
randomised (2:1) to receive either 50 mg sunitinib or placebo, orally once daily on Schedule 4/2 until 
disease progression or withdrawal from the study for another reason (207 patients received sunitinib 
and 105 patients received placebo). The primary efficacy endpoint of the study was TTP, defined as 
the time from randomisation to first documentation of objective tumour progression. At the time of the 
prespecified interim analysis, the median TTP on sunitinib was 28.9 weeks (95% CI: 21.3, 34.1) as 
assessed by the investigator and 27.3 weeks (95% CI: 16.0, 32.1) as assessed by the independent 
review and was statistically significantly longer than the TTP on placebo of 5.1 weeks 
(95% CI: 4.4, 10.1) as assessed by the investigator and 6.4 weeks (95% CI: 4.4, 10.0) as assessed by 
the independent review. The difference in overall survival (OS) was statistically in favour of sunitinib 
[hazard ratio (HR): 0.491; (95% CI: 0.290, 0.831)]; the risk of death was 2 times higher in patients in 
the placebo arm compared to the sunitinib arm.  
After the interim analysis of efficacy and safety, at the recommendation of the independent Data and 
Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), the study was unblinded and patients on the placebo arm were 
offered open-label sunitinib treatment. 
A total of 255 patients received sunitinib in the open-label treatment phase of the study, including 
99 patients who were initially treated with placebo.  
The analyses of primary and secondary endpoints in the open-label phase of the study reaffirmed the 
results obtained at the time of the interim analysis, as shown in Table 2: 
Table 2.  GIST summary of efficacy endpoints (ITT population)  
Double-blind treatmenta 
Median (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio 
 Sunitinib 
Placebo 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
Placebo 
cross-over 
group 
treatmentb 
27.3 (16.0, 32.1)  6.4 (4.4, 10.0) 
26.6 (16.0, 32.1)  6.4 (4.4, 10.0) 
0.329 (0.233, 0.466)  < 0.001 
0.339 (0.244, 0.472)  < 0.001  10.4 (4.3, 22.0) 
- 
24.1 (11.1, 28.3) 
22.9 (10.9, 28.0) 
6.0 (4.4, 9.9) 
6.0 (4.4, 9.7) 
0.333 (0.238, 0.467)   < 0.001 
0.347 (0.253, 0.475)  < 0.001 
- 
- 
6.8 (3.7, 11.1) 
6.6 (3.8, 10.5) 
0 (-) 
0 (-) 
NA 
NA 
0.006 
0.004 
- 
10.1 (5.0, 17.8) 
- 
0.491 (0.290, 0.831)  0.007 
  Final 
72.7 (61.3, 83.0)  64.9 (45.7, 96.0)  0.876 (0.679, 1.129)  0.306 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; ITT=intent-to-treat; NA=not applicable; ORR=objective response rate; 
OS=overall survival; PFS=progression-free survival; TTP=time-to-tumour progression. 
a  Results of double-blind treatment are from the ITT population and using central radiologist measurement, as 
- 
- 
- 
b 
appropriate. 
Efficacy results for the 99 subjects who crossed over from placebo to sunitinib after unblinding. Baseline 
was reset at cross-over and efficacy analyses were based on investigators assessment. 
c 
The interim PFS numbers have been updated based on a recalculation of the original data. 
d  Results for ORR are given as percent of subjects with confirmed response with the 95% CI. 
e  Median not achieved because the data were not yet mature. 
18 
Endpoint 
Primary 
TTP (weeks) 
    Interim 
    Final 
Secondary 
   PFS (weeks)c 
Interim 
  Final 
  ORR (%)d 
Interim 
  Final 
  OS (weeks)e 
Interim 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Median OS in the ITT population was 72.7 weeks and 64.9 weeks (HR: 0.876; 95% CI: 0.679, 1.129; 
p=0.306), in the sunitinib and placebo arms, respectively. In this analysis, the placebo arm included 
those patients randomised to placebo who subsequently received open-label sunitinib treatment. 
Treatment-naïve metastatic renal cell carcinoma  
A phase 3, randomised, multi-centre, international study evaluating the efficacy and safety of sunitinib 
compared with IFN-α in treatment-naïve MRCC patients was conducted. Seven hundred and fifty 
patients were randomised 1:1 to the treatment arms; they received treatment with either sunitinib in 
repeated 6-week cycles, consisting of 4 weeks of 50 mg daily oral administration followed by 2 weeks 
of rest (Schedule 4/2), or IFN-α, administered as a subcutaneous injection of 3 million units (MU) the 
first week, 6 MU the second week, and 9 MU the third week and thereafter, on 3 nonconsecutive days 
each week.  
The median duration of treatment was 11.1 months (range: 0.4-46.1) for sunitinib treatment and 
4.1 months (range: 0.1-45.6) for IFN-α treatment. Treatment-related serious adverse events (TRSAEs) 
were reported in 23.7% of patients receiving sunitinib and in 6.9% of patients receiving IFN-α. 
However, the discontinuation rates due to adverse events were 20% for sunitinib and 23% for IFN-α. 
Dose interruptions occurred in 202 patients (54%) on sunitinib and 141 patients (39%) on IFN-α. Dose 
reductions occurred in 194 patients (52%) on sunitinib and 98 patients (27%) on IFN-α. Patients were 
treated until disease progression or withdrawal from the study. The primary efficacy endpoint was 
PFS. A planned interim analysis showed a statistically significant advantage for sunitinib over IFN-α, 
in this study, the median PFS for the sunitinib-treated group was 47.3 weeks, compared with 
22.0 weeks for the IFN-α-treated group; the HR was 0.415 (95% CI: 0.320, 0.539; p-value < 0.001). 
Other endpoints included ORR, OS, and safety. Core radiology assessment was discontinued after the 
primary endpoint had been met. At the final analysis, the ORR as determined by the investigator’s 
assessment was 46% (95% CI: 41%, 51%) for the sunitinib arm and 12.0% (95% CI: 9%, 16%) for the 
IFN-α arm (p<0.001). 
Sunitinib treatment was associated with longer survival compared to IFN-α. The median OS was 
114.6 weeks for the sunitinib arm (95% CI: 100.1, 142.9) and 94.9 weeks for the IFN-α arm 
(95% CI: 77.7, 117.0) with a hazard ratio of 0.821 (95% CI: 0.673, 1.001; p=0.0510 by unstratified 
log-rank).  
The overall PFS and OS, observed in the ITT population, as determined by the core radiology 
laboratory assessment, are summarised in Table 3. 
Table 3.  Treatment-naïve mRCC summary of efficacy endpoints (ITT population)  
Summary of progression-free survival 
Subject did not progress or die [n (%)] 
Subject observed to have progressed or died 
[n (%)] 
PFS (weeks) 
Quartile (95% CI) 
  25% 
  50% 
  75% 
Unstratified analysis 
Hazard ratio (sunitinib versus IFN-α)  
95% CI for hazard ratio 
p-valuea 
Sunitinib 
(N = 375) 
161 (42.9) 
214 (57.1) 
IFN-α 
(N = 375) 
176 (46.9) 
199 (53.1) 
22.7 (18.0, 34.0) 
48.3 (46.4, 58.3) 
84.3 (72.9, 95.1) 
10.0 (7.3, 10.3) 
22.1 (17.1, 24.0) 
58.1 (45.6, 82.1) 
0.5268 
(0.4316, 0.6430) 
< 0.0001 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
Sunitinib 
(N = 375) 
IFN-α 
(N = 375) 
185 (49.3) 
190 (50.7) 
Summary of progression-free survival 
Summary of overall survival 
Subject not known to have died [n (%)] 
Subject observed to have died [n (%)] 
OS (weeks) 
Quartile (95% CI) 
   25% 
   50% 
   75% 
Unstratified analysis 
Hazard ratio (sunitinib versus IFN-α) 
95% CI for hazard ratio 
p-valuea 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; INF-α=interferon-alfa; ITT=intent-to-treat; N=number of patients; NA=not 
applicable; OS=overall survival; PFS=progression-free survival. 
a 
56.6 (48.7, 68.4) 
114.6 (100.1, 142.9) 
NA (NA, NA) 
0.8209 
(0.6730, 1.0013) 
0.0510 
175 (46.7) 
200 (53.3) 
41.7 (32.6, 51.6) 
94.9 (77.7, 117.0) 
NA (NA, NA) 
From a 2-sided log-rank test. 
Cytokine-refractory metastatic renal cell carcinoma  
A phase 2 study of sunitinib was conducted in patients who were refractory to prior cytokine therapy 
with interleukin-2 or IFN-α. Sixty-three patients received a starting dose of 50 mg sunitinib orally, 
once daily for 4 consecutive weeks followed by a 2-week rest period, to comprise a complete cycle of 
6 weeks (Schedule 4/2). The primary efficacy endpoint was ORR, based on Response Evaluation 
Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST). 
In this study the objective response rate was 36.5% (95% CI: 24.7%, 49.6%) and the median TTP was 
37.7 weeks (95% CI: 24.0, 46.4). 
A confirmatory, open-label, single-arm, multi-centre study evaluating the efficacy and safety of 
sunitinib was conducted in patients with MRCC who were refractory to prior cytokine therapy. One 
hundred and 6 patients received at least one 50 mg dose of sunitinib on Schedule 4/2. 
The primary efficacy endpoint of this study was ORR. Secondary endpoints included TTP, duration of 
response (DR) and OS. 
In this study the ORR was 35.8% (95% CI: 26.8% , 47.5 %). The median DR and OS had not yet been 
reached. 
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours 
A supportive phase 2, open-label, multi-centre study evaluated the efficacy and safety of single-agent 
sunitinib 50 mg daily on Schedule 4/2 in patients with unresectable pNET. In a pancreatic islet cell 
tumour cohort of 66 patients, the primary endpoint of response rate was 17%.  
A pivotal phase 3, multi-centre, international, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 
single-agent sunitinib was conducted in patients with unresectable pNET.  
Patients were required to have documented progression, based on RECIST, within the prior 12 months 
and were randomised (1:1) to receive either 37.5 mg sunitinib once daily without a scheduled rest 
period (N = 86) or placebo (N = 85).  
The primary objective was to compare PFS in patients receiving sunitinib versus patients receiving 
placebo. Other endpoints included OS, ORR, PROs, and safety.  
Demographics were comparable between the sunitinib and placebo groups. Additionally, 49% of 
sunitinib patients had nonfunctioning tumours versus 52% of placebo patients and 92% of patients in 
both arms had liver metastases.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of somatostatin analogues was allowed in the study. 
A total of 66% of sunitinib patients received prior systemic therapy compared with 72% of placebo 
patients. In addition, 24% of sunitinib patients had received somatostatin analogues compared with 
22% of placebo patients. 
A clinically significant advantage in investigator-assessed PFS for sunitinib over placebo was 
observed. The median PFS was 11.4 months for the sunitinib arm compared to 5.5 months for the 
placebo arm [hazard ratio: 0.418 (95% CI: 0.263, 0.662), p-value=0.0001]; similar results were 
observed when derived tumour response assessments based upon application of RECIST to 
investigator tumour measurements were used to determine disease progression, as shown in Table 4. 
A hazard ratio favouring sunitinib was observed in all subgroups of baseline characteristics evaluated, 
including an analysis by number of prior systemic therapies. A total of 29 patients in the sunitinib arm 
and 24 in the placebo arm had received no prior systemic treatment; among these patients, the hazard 
ratio for PFS was 0.365 (95% CI: 0.156, 0.857), p=0.0156. Similarly, among 57 patients in the 
sunitinib arm (including 28 with 1 prior systemic therapy and 29 with 2 or more prior systemic 
therapies) and 61 patients in the placebo arm (including 25 with 1 prior systemic therapy and 36 with 2 
or more prior systemic therapies), the hazard ratio for PFS was 0.456 (95% CI: 0.264, 0.787), 
p=0.0036. 
A sensitivity analysis of PFS was conducted where progression was based upon investigator-reported 
tumour measurements and where all subjects censored for reasons other than study termination were 
treated as PFS events. This analysis provided a conservative estimate of the treatment effect of 
sunitinib and supported the primary analysis, demonstrating a hazard ratio of 0.507 (95% CI: 0.350, 
0.733), p=0.000193. The pivotal study in pancreatic NET was terminated prematurely at the 
recommendation of an independent drug monitoring committee and the primary endpoint was based 
upon investigator assessment, both of which may have affected the estimates of the treatment effect.  
In order to rule out bias in the investigator-based assessment of PFS, a BICR of scans was performed; 
this review supported the investigator assessment, as shown in Table 4. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 - pNET efficacy results from the Phase 3 study 
Efficacy parameter 
Sunitinib(N = 86) 
Placebo 
(N = 85) 
11.4 
(7.4, 19.8) 
5.5 
(3.6, 7.4) 
Hazard 
Ratio 
(95% CI) 
0.418 
(0.263, 0.662) 
p-value 
0.0001a 
12.6 
(7.4, 16.9) 
5.4 
(3.5, 6.0) 
0.401 
(0.252, 0.640) 
0.000066a 
12.6 
(11.1, 20.6) 
5.8 
(3.8, 7.2) 
0.315 
(0.181, 0.546) 
0.000015a 
Progression-free survival [median, 
months (95% CI)] by Investigator 
Assessment 
Progression-free survival 
[median, months (95% CI)] 
by derived tumour 
response assessment based 
upon application of 
RECIST to investigator 
tumour assessments 
Progression-free survival 
[median, months (95% CI)] 
by blinded independent 
central review of tumour 
assessments 
Overall survival [5 years 
follow-up] 
[median, months (95% CI)] 
38.6 
(25.6, 56.4) 
29.1 
(16.4, 36.8) 
0.730 
0.0940a 
(0.504, 
1.057) 
NA 
Objective response rate 
[%, (95% CI)] 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N=number of patients; NA=not applicable; pNET=pancreatic 
neuroendocrine tumours; RECIST=response evaluation criteria in solid tumours. 
9.3 
(3.2, 15.4) 
0 
0.0066b 
a   2-sided unstratified log-rank test 
b   Fisher’s Exact test 
Figure 1.  Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS in the pNET Phase 3 study 
)
%
(
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
S
e
e
r
F
n
o
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
P
i
Sunitinib (N=86) 
SUTENT (N=86)
 Median 11.4 months
Placebo (N=85)
 Median 5.5 months
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Hazard Ratio = 0.42
95% CI (0.26 - 0.66)
p = 0.0001
0
3
Number of subjects at risk
SUTENT
Sunitinib 
Placebo
Placebo 
52
42
86
85
6
34
20
9
Time (Months)
12
20
9
15
2
15
4
2
18
2
2
21
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N=number of patients; PFS=progression-free survival; pNET=pancreatic 
neuroendocrine tumours. 
OS data were not mature at the time of the study closure [20.6 months (95% CI: 20.6, NR) for the 
sunitinib arm compared to NR (95% CI: 15.5, NR) for the placebo arm, hazard ratio: 
22 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.409 (95% CI: 0.187, 0.894), p-value=0.0204]. There were 9 deaths in the sunitinib arm and 
21 deaths in the placebo arm.  
Upon disease progression, patients were unblinded and placebo patients were offered access to 
open-label sunitinib in a separate extension study. As a result of the early study closure, remaining 
patients were unblinded and offered access to open-label sunitinib in an extension study. A total of 59 
out of 85 patients (69.4%) from the placebo arm crossed over to open-label sunitinib following disease 
progression or unblinding at study closure. OS observed after 5 years of follow-up in the extension 
study showed a hazard ratio of 0.730 (95% CI: 0.504, 1.057).  
Results from the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life 
Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) showed that the overall global health-related quality of life and the 
5 functioning domains (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social) were maintained for patients 
on sunitinib treatment as compared to placebo with limited adverse symptomatic effects. 
A phase 4 multinational, multi-centre, single-arm, open-label study evaluating the efficacy and safety 
of sunitinib was conducted in patients with progressive, advanced/metastatic, well-differentiated, 
unresectable pNET. 
One hundred six patients (61 patients in the treatment-naïve cohort and 45 patients in the later-line 
cohort) received treatment with sunitinib orally at 37.5 mg once a day on a continuous daily dosing 
(CDD) schedule. 
The investigator-assessed median PFS was 13.2 months, both in the overall population (95% CI: 10.9, 
16.7) and in the treatment-naïve cohort (95% CI: 7.4, 16.8). 
Paediatric population 
Experience on the use of sunitinib in paediatric patients is limited (see section 4.2).  
A phase 1 dose-escalation study of oral sunitinib was conducted in 35 patients comprised of 
30 paediatric patients (aged 3 years to 17 years) and 5 young adult patients (aged: 18 years to 
21 years), with refractory solid tumours, the majority of whom were enrolled with a primary diagnosis 
of brain tumour. Dose-limiting cardiotoxicity was observed in the first part of the study which was 
therefore amended to exclude patients with previous exposure to potentially cardiotoxic therapies 
(including anthracyclines) or cardiac radiation. In the second part of the study, including patients with 
prior anticancer therapy but without risk factors for cardiac toxicity, sunitinib was generally tolerable 
and clinically manageable at the dose of 15 mg/m2 daily (MTD) on Schedule 4/2. None of the subjects 
achieved complete response or partial response. Stable disease was observed in 6 patients (17%). One 
patient with GIST was enrolled at the 15 mg/m2 dose level with no evidence of benefit. The observed 
adverse drug reactions were similar overall to those seen in adults (see section 4.8). 
A phase 2 open-label study was conducted in 29 patients comprised of 27 paediatric patients (aged 
3 years to 16 years) and 2 young adult patients (aged 18 years to 19 years) with HGG or ependymoma. 
The study was closed at the time of planned interim analysis due to the lack of disease control. Median 
PFS was 2.3 months in the HGG group and 2.7 months in the ependymoma group. Median overall OS 
was 5.1 months in the HGG group and 12.3 months in the ependymoma group. The most common 
(≥10%) reported treatment-related adverse events in patients in both groups combined were neutrophil 
count decreased (6 patients [20.7%]) and haemorrhage intracranial (3 patients [10.3%]) (see 
section 4.8).  
Evidence from a phase 1/2 study of oral sunitinib conducted in 6 paediatric patients with GIST aged 
13 years to 16 years who received sunitinib on Schedule 4/2, at doses ranging between 15 mg/m2 daily 
and 30 mg/m2 daily, and available published data (20 paediatric or young adult patients with GIST) 
indicated that sunitinib treatment resulted in disease stabilization in 18 of 26 (69.2%) patients, either 
after imatinib failure or intolerance (16 patients with stable disease out of 21), or de novo/after surgery 
(2 patients with stable disease out of 5). In the Phase 1/2 study, stable disease and disease progression 
was observed in 3 out of 6 patients each (1 patient received neo adjuvant and 1 patient received 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adjuvant imatinib, respectively). In the same study, 4 out of 6 patients (66.7%) experienced Grade 3-4 
treatment-related adverse events (Grade 3 hypophosphataemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia in 
1 patient each and a Grade 4 neutropenia in 1 patient). In addition, the publications reported the 
following Grade 3 adverse drug reactions experienced by 5 patients: fatigue (2), gastrointestinal 
adverse drug reactions (including diarrhoea) (2), haematologic adverse drug reactions (including 
anaemia) (2), cholecystitis (1), hyperthyroidism (1), and mucositis (1). 
A population pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) analysis was 
conducted with the scope to extrapolate the PK and key safety and efficacy endpoints of sunitinib in 
paediatric patients with GIST (aged: 6 years to 17 years). This analysis was based on data collected 
from adults with GIST or solid tumours and from paediatric patients with solid tumours. Based on the 
modelling analyses, the younger age and lower body size did not appear to affect negatively the safety 
and efficacy responses to sunitinib plasma exposures. Sunitinib benefit/risk did not appear to be 
negatively affected by younger age or lower body size, and was mainly driven by its plasma exposure.  
The EMA has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with sunitinib in all subsets of the 
paediatric population for the treatment of kidney or renal pelvis carcinoma (excluding 
nephroblastoma, nephroblastomatosis, clear cell sarcoma, mesoblastic nephroma, renal medullary 
carcinoma, and rhabdoid tumour of the kidney) (see section 4.2). 
The EMA has waived the obligation to submit the results of the studies with sunitinib in all subsets of 
the paediatric population for the treatment of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours 
(excluding neuroblastoma, neuroganglioblastoma, and phaeochromocytoma) (see section 4.2). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The PK of sunitinib were evaluated in 135 healthy volunteers and 266 patients with solid tumours. The 
PK were similar in all solid tumours populations tested and in healthy volunteers. 
In the dosing ranges of 25 to 100 mg, the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) and 
Cmax increase proportionally with dose. With repeated daily administration, sunitinib accumulates 3- to 
4-fold and its primary active metabolite accumulates 7- to 10-fold. Steady-state concentrations of 
sunitinib and its primary active metabolite are achieved within 10 to 14 days. By Day 14, combined 
plasma concentrations of sunitinib and its active metabolite are 62.9-101 ng/ml, which are target 
concentrations predicted from preclinical data to inhibit receptor phosphorylation in vitro and result in 
tumour stasis/growth reduction in vivo. The primary active metabolite comprises 23% to 37% of the 
total exposure. No significant changes in the PK of sunitinib or the primary active metabolite are 
observed with repeated daily administration or with repeated cycles in the dosing schedules tested. 
Absorption  
After oral administration of sunitinib, Cmax are generally observed from 6 to 12 hours time to 
maximum concentration (tmax) postadministration.  
Food has no effect on the bioavailability of sunitinib. 
Distribution 
In vitro, binding of sunitinib and its primary active metabolite to human plasma protein was 95% and 
90%, respectively, with no apparent concentration dependence. The apparent volume of distribution 
(Vd) for sunitinib was large, 2230 L, indicating distribution into the tissues. 
Metabolic interactions 
The calculated in vitro Ki values for all cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms tested (CYP1A2, CYP2A6, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5, and CYP4A9/11) indicated 
that sunitinib and its primary active metabolite are unlikely to induce metabolism, to any clinically 
relevant extent, of other actives substances that may be metabolised by these enzymes. 
Biotransformation 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sunitinib is metabolised primarily by CYP3A4, the CYP isoform which produces its primary active 
metabolite, desethyl sunitinib, which is then further metabolised by the same isoenzyme. 
Co-administration of sunitinib with potent CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors should be avoided because 
the plasma levels of sunitinib may be altered (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).  
Elimination 
Excretion is primarily via faeces (61%), with renal elimination of unchanged active substance and 
metabolites accounting for 16% of the administered dose. Sunitinib and its primary active metabolite 
were the major compounds identified in plasma, urine, and faeces, representing 91.5%, 86.4%, and 
73.8% of radioactivity in pooled samples, respectively. Minor metabolites were identified in urine and 
faeces, but generally were not found in plasma. Total oral clearance (CL/F) was 34-62 L/h. Following 
oral administration in healthy volunteers, the elimination half-lives of sunitinib and its primary active 
desethyl metabolite are approximately 40-60 hours and 80-110 hours, respectively. 
Co-administration with medicinal products that are BCRP inhibitors 
In vitro, sunitinib is a substrate of the efflux transporter BCRP. In study A6181038 the 
co-administration of gefitinib, a BCRP inhibitor, did not result in a clinically relevant effect on the 
Cmax and AUC for sunitinib or total drug (sunitinib + metabolite) (see section 4.5). This study was a 
multi-centre, open-label, Phase 1/2 study examining the safety/tolerability, the maximum tolerated 
dose, and the antitumour activity of sunitinib in combination with gefitinib in subjects with MRCC. 
The PK of gefitinib (250 mg daily) and sunitinib (37.5 mg [Cohort 1, n=4] or 50 mg [Cohort 2, n=7] 
daily on a 4-weeks on followed by 2 weeks-off schedule) when co-administered was evaluated as a 
secondary study objective. Changes in sunitinib PK parameters were of no clinical significance and 
did not indicate any drug-drug interactions; however, considering the relatively low number of 
subjects (i.e. N=7+4) and the moderate-large interpatient variability in the pharmacokinetic 
parameters, caution needs to be taken when interpreting the PK drug-drug interaction findings from 
this study. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Sunitinib and its primary metabolite are mainly metabolised by the liver. Systemic exposures after a 
single dose of sunitinib were similar in subjects with mild or moderate (Child-Pugh Class A and B) 
hepatic impairment compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. Sunitinib was not studied in 
subjects with severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment. 
Studies in cancer patients have excluded patients with ALT or AST > 2.5 x ULN (upper limit of 
normal) or > 5.0 x ULN if due to liver metastasis.  
Renal impairment 
Population PK analyses indicated that sunitinib apparent clearance (CL/F) was not affected by 
creatinine clearance (CLcr) within the range evaluated (42-347 ml/min). Systemic exposures after a 
single dose of sunitinib were similar in subjects with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 ml/min) 
compared to subjects with normal renal function (CLcr > 80 ml/min). Although sunitinib and its 
primary metabolite were not eliminated through haemodialysis in subjects with ESRD, the total 
systemic exposures were lower by 47% for sunitinib and 31% for its primary metabolite compared to 
subjects with normal renal function. 
Weight, performance status 
Population PK analyses of demographic data indicate that no starting dose adjustments are necessary 
for weight or Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status. 
Gender 
Available data indicate that females could have about 30% lower apparent clearance (CL/F) of 
sunitinib than males: this difference, however, does not necessitate starting dose adjustments. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Experience on the use of sunitinib in paediatric patients is limited (see section 4.2). Population PK 
analyses of a pooled dataset from adult patients with GIST and solid tumours and paediatric patients 
with solid tumours were completed. Stepwise covariate modelling analyses were performed to 
evaluate the effect of age and body size (total body weight or body surface area) as well as other 
covariates on important PK parameters for sunitinib and its active metabolite. Among age and 
bodysize related covariates tested, age was a significant covariate on apparent clearance of sunitinib 
(the younger the age of the paediatric patient, the lower the apparent clearance). Similarly, body 
surface area was a significant covariate on the apparent clearance of the active metabolite (the lower 
the body surface area, the lower the apparent clearance).  
Furthermore, based on an integrated population PK analysis of pooled data from the 3 paediatric 
studies (2 paediatric solid tumor studies and 1 paediatric GIST study; ages: 6 years to 11 years and 
12 years to 17 years), baseline body surface area (BSA) was a significant covariate on apparent 
clearance of sunitinib and its active metabolite. Based on this analysis, a dose of approximately 
20 mg/m2 daily in paediatric patients, with BSA values between 1.10 and 1.87 m2, is expected to 
provide plasma exposures to sunitinib and its active metabolite comparable (between 75 and 125% of 
the AUC) to those in adults with GIST administered sunitinib 50 mg daily on Schedule 4/2 (AUC 
1233 ng.hr/mL). In paediatric studies, the starting dose of sunitinib was 15 mg/m2 (based on the MTD 
identified in the Phase 1 dose-escalation study, see section 5.1), which in paediatric patients with GIST 
increased to 22.5 mg/m2 and subsequently to 30 mg/m2 (not to exceed the total dose of 50 mg/day) 
based on individual patient safety/tolerability. Furthermore, according to the published literatures in 
paediatric patients with GIST, the calculated starting dose ranged from 16.6 mg/m2 to 36 mg/m2, 
increased to doses as high as 40.4 mg/m2 (not exceeding the total dose of 50 mg/day). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In rat and monkey repeated-dose toxicity studies up to 9-months duration, the primary target organ 
effects were identified in the gastrointestinal tract (emesis and diarrhoea in monkeys); adrenal gland 
(cortical congestion and/or haemorrhage in rats and monkeys, with necrosis followed by fibrosis in 
rats); haemolymphopoietic system (bone morrow hypocellularity and lymphoid depletion of thymus, 
spleen, and lymph node); exocrine pancreas (acinar cell degranulation with single cell necrosis); 
salivary gland (acinar hypertrophy); bone joint (growth plate thickening); uterus (atrophy); and ovaries 
(decreased follicular development). All findings occurred at clinically relevant sunitinib plasma 
exposure levels. Additional effects observed in other studies included: QTc interval prolongation, 
LVEF reduction and testicular tubular atrophy, increased mesangial cells in kidney, haemorrhage in 
gastrointestinal tract and oral mucosa, and hypertrophy of anterior pituitary cells. Changes in the 
uterus (endometrial atrophy) and bone growth plate (physeal thickening or dysplasia of cartilage) are 
thought to be related to the pharmacological action of sunitinib. Most of these findings were reversible 
after 2 to 6 weeks without treatment. 
Genotoxicity  
The genotoxic potential of sunitinib was assessed in vitro and in vivo. Sunitinib was not mutagenic in 
bacteria using metabolic activation provided by rat liver. Sunitinib did not induce structural 
chromosome aberrations in human peripheral blood lymphocyte cells in vitro. Polyploidy (numerical 
chromosome aberrations) was observed in human peripheral blood lymphocytes in vitro, both in the 
presence and absence of metabolic activation. Sunitinib was not clastogenic in rat bone marrow 
in vivo. The major active metabolite was not evaluated for genotoxic potential. 
Carcinogenicity 
In a 1-month, oral gavage dose-range finding study (0, 10, 25, 75, or 200 mg/kg/day) with continuous 
daily dosing in rasH2 transgenic mice, carcinoma and hyperplasia of Brunner’s glands of the 
duodenum were observed at the highest dose (200 mg/kg/day) tested. 
A 6-month, oral gavage carcinogenicity study (0, 8, 25, 75 [reduced to 50] mg/kg/day), with daily 
dosing was conducted in rasH2 transgenic mice. Gastroduodenal carcinomas, an increased incidence 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of background haemangiosarcomas, and/or gastric mucosal hyperplasia were observed at doses 
of ≥ 25 mg/kg/day following 1- or 6-months duration (≥ 7.3 times the AUC in patients administered 
the recommended daily dose [RDD]).  
In a 2-year rat carcinogenicity study (0, 0.33, 1, or 3 mg/kg/day), administration of sunitinib in 28-day 
cycles followed by 7-day dose-free periods resulted in increases in the incidence of 
phaeochromocytomas and hyperplasia in the adrenal medulla of male rats given 3 mg/kg/day 
following > 1 year of dosing (≥ 7.8 times the AUC in patients administered the RDD). Brunner’s 
glands carcinoma occurred in the duodenum at ≥ 1 mg/kg/day in females and at 3 mg/kg/day in males, 
and mucous cell hyperplasia was evident in the glandular stomach at 3 mg/kg/day in males, which 
occurred at ≥ 0.9, 7.8, and 7.8 times the AUC in patients administered the RDD, respectively. The 
relevance to humans of the neoplastic findings observed in the mouse (rasH2 transgenic) and rat 
carcinogenicity studies with sunitinib treatment is unclear. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
No effects on male or female fertility were observed in reproductive toxicity studies. However, in 
repeated-dose toxicity studies performed in rats and monkeys, effects on female fertility were 
observed in the form of follicular atresia, degeneration of corpora lutea, endometrial changes in the 
uterus, and decreased uterine and ovarian weights at clinically relevant systemic exposure levels. 
Effects on male fertility in rat were observed in the form of tubular atrophy in the testes, reduction of 
spermatozoa in epididymides, and colloid depletion in prostate and seminal vesicles at plasma 
exposure levels 25 times the systemic exposure in humans. 
In rats, embryo-foetal mortality was evident as significant reductions in the number of live foetuses, 
increased numbers of resorptions, increased postimplantation loss, and total litter loss in 8 of 
28 pregnant females at plasma exposure levels 5.5 times the systemic exposure in humans. In rabbits, 
reductions in gravid uterine weights and number of live foetuses were due to increases in the number 
of resorptions, increases in postimplantation loss and complete litter loss in 4 of 6 pregnant females at 
plasma exposure levels 3 times the systemic exposure in humans. Sunitinib treatment in rats during 
organogenesis resulted in developmental effects at ≥ 5 mg/kg/day consisting of increased incidence of 
foetal skeletal malformations, predominantly characterised as retarded ossification of thoracic/lumbar 
vertebrae and occurred at plasma exposure levels 5.5 times the systemic exposure in humans. In 
rabbits, developmental effects consisted of increased incidence of cleft lip at plasma exposure levels 
approximately equal to that observed in clinic, and cleft lip and cleft palate at plasma exposure levels 
2.7 times the systemic exposure in humans. 
Sunitinib (0.3, 1.0, 3.0 mg/kg/day) was evaluated in a pre-and postnatal development study in 
pregnant rats. Maternal body weight gains were reduced during gestation and lactation at 
≥ 1 mg/kg/day but no maternal reproductive toxicity was observed up to 3 mg/kg/day (estimate 
exposure ≥ 2.3 times the AUC in patients administered the RDD). Reduced offspring body weights 
were observed during the preweaning and postweaning periods at 3 mg/kg/day. No development 
toxicity was observed at 1 mg/kg/day (approximate exposure ≥ 0.9 times the AUC in patients 
administered the RDD). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard c apsules 
Capsule content 
Cellulose, microcrystalline 
Mannitol (E421) 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Povidone (E1201) 
Magnesium stearate 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Red Iron oxide (E172) 
Printing ink white 
Printing ink white 
Shellac 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Propylene glycol 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard c apsules 
Capsule content 
Cellulose, microcrystalline 
Mannitol (E421) 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Povidone (E1201) 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Black Iron oxide (E172) 
Red Iron oxide (E172) 
Yellow Iron oxide (E172) 
Printing ink white 
Printing ink white 
Shellac 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Propylene glycol 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard c apsules 
Capsule content 
Cellulose, microcrystalline 
Mannitol (E421) 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Povidone (E1201) 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Yellow Iron oxide (E172) 
Printing ink black 
Printing ink black 
Shellac  
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Propylene glycol 
Ammonium hydroxide 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard c apsules 
Capsule content 
Cellulose, microcrystalline 
Mannitol (E421) 
Croscarmellose sodium 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Povidone (E1201) 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Black Iron oxide (E172) 
Red Iron oxide (E172) 
Yellow Iron oxide (E172) 
Printing ink white 
Printing ink white 
Shellac 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Propylene glycol 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium-OPA/Alu/PVC blisters in pack sizes of 28 hard capsules per carton. 
Aluminium-OPA/Alu/PVC perforated unit dose blister in pack sizes of 28 x 1 hard capsules per 
carton. 
High-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with a child resistant polypropylene closure containing 30 
hard capsules per carton. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll De Barcelona s/n, 
Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039, 
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/20/1511/001-003 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/20/1511/004-006 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/20/1511/007-009 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/20/1511/010-012 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 February 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Remedica Ltd. 
Aharnon Street, Limassol Industrial Estate 
3056 Limassol 
Cyprus 
Pharmacare Premium Ltd. 
HHF003 Hal Far Industrial Estate 
Birzebbugia, BBG3000 
Malta 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).  
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update report (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON  FOR BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 12.5 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n,  
Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1511/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 25.0 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/004 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 37.5 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/007 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules  
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 50.0 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/010 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules  
sunitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR UNIT DOSE BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 12.5 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 x 1 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
UNIT DOSE BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR UNIT DOSE BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 25.0 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 x 1 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
UNIT DOSE BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR UNIT DOSE BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 37.5 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 x 1 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/008 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
UNIT DOSE BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR UNIT DOSE BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 50.0 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 x 1 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/011 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
UNIT DOSE BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules  
sunitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON FOR BOTTLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 12.5 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
LABEL FOR BOTTLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 12.5 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON BOTTLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 25.0 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
LABEL FOR BOTTLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 25.0 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON FOR BOTTLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 37.5 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
LABEL FOR BOTTLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 37.5 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON FOR BOTTLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 50.0 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/012 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
LABEL FOR BOTTLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg capsules 
sunitinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 50.0 mg of sunitinib 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1511/012 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard capsules 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard capsules 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard capsules 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard capsules 
sunitinib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor ,pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Sunitinib Accord is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take  Sunitinib Accord 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take  Sunitinib Accord 
Possible side effects 
How to store  Sunitinib Accord 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Sunitinib Accord is and what it is used for 
Sunitinib Accord  contains the active substance sunitinib, which is a protein kinase inhibitor. It is used 
to treat cancer by preventing the activity of a special group of proteins which are known to be involved 
in the growth and spread of cancer cells. 
Sunitinib Accord is used to treat adults with the following types of cancer:  
- 
- 
- 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST), a type of cancer of the stomach and bowel, where 
imatinib (another anticancer medicine) no longer works or you cannot take imatinib. 
Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (MRCC), a type of kidney cancer that has spread to other parts 
of the body. 
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (pNET) (tumours of the hormone-producing cells in the 
pancreas) that have progressed or cannot be removed with surgery. 
If you have any questions about how Sunitinib Accord works or why this medicine has been 
prescribed for you, ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you take  Sunitinib Accord 
Do not take  Sunitinib Accord 
- 
If you are allergic to sunitinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6). 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist  before taking Sunitinib Accord: 
-  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you have high blood pressure. Sunitinib Accord can raise blood pressure. Your doctor may 
check your blood pressure during treatment with Sunitinib Accord, and you may be treated with 
medicines to reduce the blood pressure, if needed.   
If you have or have had blood disease, bleeding problems, or bruising. Treatment with 
Sunitinib Accord may lead to a higher risk of bleeding or lead to changes in the number of certain 
cells in the blood which may lead to anaemia or affect the ability of your blood to clot. If you are 
taking warfarin or acenocoumarole, medicines which thin the blood to prevent blood clots, there 
may be a greater risk of bleeding. Tell your doctor if you have any bleeding while on treatment 
with Sunitinib Accord.   
If you have heart problems. Sunitinib Accord can cause heart problems. Tell your doctor if you 
feel very tired, are short of breath, or have swollen feet and ankles.   
If you have abnormal heart rhythm changes. Sunitinib Accord can cause abnormality of your 
heart rhythm. Your doctor may obtain electrocardiograms to evaluate for these problems during 
your treatment with Sunitinib Accord.Tell your doctor if you feel dizzy, faint, or have abnormal 
heartbeats while taking Sunitinib Accord.   
If you have had a recent problem with blood clots in your veins and/or arteries (types of 
blood vessels), including stroke, heart attack, embolism, or thrombosis. Call your doctor 
immediately if you get symptoms such as chest pain or pressure, pain in your arms, back, neck or 
jaw, shortness of breath, numbness or weakness on 1 side of your body, trouble talking, headache, 
or dizziness while on treatment with Sunitinib Accord.   
If you have or have had an aneurysm (enlargement and weakening of a blood vessel wall) or a 
tear in a blood vessel wall. 
If you have or have had damage to the smallest blood vessels known as thrombotic 
microangiopathy (TMA). Tell your doctor if you develop fever, fatigue, tiredness, bruising, 
bleeding, swelling, confusion, vision loss, and seizures. 
If you have thyroid glands problems. Sunitinib Accord can cause thyroid gland problems. Tell 
your doctor if you get tired more easily, generally feel colder than other people, or your voice 
deepens whilst taking Sunitinib Accord. Your thyroid function should be checked before you take 
Sunitinib Accord and regularly while you are taking it. If your thyroid gland is not producing 
enough thyroid hormone, you may be treated with thyroid hormone replacement.    
If you have or have had pancreatic or gallbladder disorders. Tell your doctor if you develop 
any of the following signs and symptoms: pain in the area of the stomach (upper abdomen), 
nausea, vomiting, and fever. These may be caused by inflammation of the pancreas or 
gallbladder.  
If you have or have had liver problems. Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following 
signs and symptoms of liver problems during Sunitinib Accord treatment: itching, yellow eyes 
or skin, dark urine, and pain or discomfort in the right upper stomach area. Your doctor should 
do blood tests to check your liver function before and during treatment with Sunitinib Accord, 
and as clinically indicated. 
- 
If you have or have had kidney problems. Your doctor will monitor your kidney function.  
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
If you are going to have surgery or if you had an operation recently. Sunitinib Accord  
may affect the way your wounds heal. You will usually be taken off Sunitinib Accord if you 
are having an operation. Your doctor will decide when to start Sunitinib Accord  again. 
-  You may be advised to have a dental check-up before you start treatment with Sunitinib 
Accord. 
-  If you have or have had pain in the mouth, teeth and/or jaw, swelling or sores inside the 
mouth, numbness or a feeling of heaviness in the jaw, or loosening of a tooth, tell your 
doctor and dentist immediately. 
-  If you need to undergo an invasive dental treatment or dental surgery, tell your dentist that 
you are being treated with Sunitinib Accord in particular when you are also receiving or 
have received intravenous bisphosphonates. Bisphosphonates are medicines used to 
prevent bone complications that may have been given for another medical condition.  
- 
- 
- 
If you have or have had skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders. While you are on this 
medicine "pyoderma gangrenosum" (painful skin ulceration) or “necrotising fasciitis” (rapidly 
spreading infection of the skin/soft tissue that may be life-threatening) may occur. Contact your 
doctor immediately if symptoms of infection occur around a skin injury, including fever, pain, 
redness, swelling, or drainage of pus or blood. This event is generally reversible after sunitinib 
discontinuation. Severe skin rashes (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, 
erythema multiforme) have been reported with the use of sunitinib, appearing initially as reddish 
target-like spots or circular patches often with central blisters on the trunk. The rash may 
progress to widespread blistering or peeling of the skin and may be life-threatening. If you 
develop a rash or these skin symptoms, seek immediate advice from a doctor. 
If you have or have had seizures. Notify your doctor as soon as possible if you have high 
blood pressure, headache, or loss of sight.  
If you have diabetes. Blood sugar levels in diabetic patients should be checked regularly in 
order to assess if antidiabetic medicine’s doses needs to be adjusted to minimise the risk of low 
blood sugar. Notify your doctor as soon as possible if you experience any signs and symptoms 
of low blood sugar (fatigue, palpitations, sweating, hunger and loss of consciousness). 
Children and adolescents 
Sunitinib Accord  is not recommended for people aged under 18.  
Other medicines and  Sunitinib Accord  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription.  
Some medicines can affect the levels of Sunitinib Accord in your body. You should inform your 
doctor if you are taking medicines containing the following active substances:   
 
 
 
 
ketoconazole, itraconazole – used to treat fungal infections  
erythromycin, clarithromycin, rifampicin –used to treat infections 
ritonavir –used to treat HIV 
dexamethasone – a corticosteroid used for various conditions (such as allergic/breathing 
disorders or skin diseases)  
phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital – used to treat epilepsy and other neurological 
conditions  
herbal preparations containing St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) – used to treat 
depression and anxiety 
 
 
Sunitinib Accord with food and drink 
You should avoid drinking grapefruit juice while on treatment with Sunitinib Accord. 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
If you might get pregnant, you should use a reliable method of contraception during treatment with 
Sunitinib Accord. 
If you are breast-feeding, tell your doctor. You should not breast-feed during treatment with Sunitinib 
Accord.   
Driving and using machines 
If you experience dizziness or you feel unusually tired, take special care when driving or using 
machines. 
Sunitinib Accord  contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium (croscarmellose sodium) per capsule, that is 
to say essentially “sodium-free”. 
3.  How to take  Sunitinib Accord 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
Your doctor will prescribe a dose that is right for you, depending on the type of cancer to be treated. If 
you are being treated for: 
−  GIST or MRCC: the usual dose is 50 mg once daily taken for 28 days (4 weeks), followed by 
14 days (2 weeks) of rest (no medicine), in 6-week cycles.  
−  pNET: the usual dose is 37.5 mg once daily without a rest period. 
Your doctor will determine the appropriate dose you need to take, as well as if and when you need to 
stop treatment with Sunitinib Accord. 
Sunitinib Accord can be taken with or without food.  
If you take more Sunitinib Accord than you should  
If you have accidentally taken too many capsules, talk to your doctor straight away. You may require 
medical attention. 
If you forget to take  Sunitinib Accord 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
You must immediately contact your doctor if you experience any of those serious side effects (see also 
section 2  What you need to know before you take Sunitinib Accord):  
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heart problems. Tell your doctor if you feel very tired, are short of breath, or have swollen feet and 
ankles. These may be symptoms of heart problems that may include heart failure and heart muscle 
problems (cardiomyopathy).  
Lung or breathing problems. Tell your doctor if you develop cough, chest pain, sudden onset of 
shortness of breath, or coughing up blood. These may be symptoms of a condition called pulmonary 
embolism that occurs when blood clots travel to your lungs. 
Kidney disorders. Tell your doctor if you experience altered frequency or absence of urination which 
may be symptoms of kidney failure.  
Bleeding. Tell your doctor if you have any of these symptoms or a serious bleeding problem during 
treatment with Sunitinib Accord: painful, swollen stomach (abdomen); vomiting blood; black, sticky 
stools; bloody urine; headache or change in your mental status; coughing up of blood or bloody 
sputum from the lungs or airway.  
Tumour destruction leading to hole in the intestine. Tell your doctor if you have severe abdominal 
pain, fever, nausea, vomiting, blood in your stool, or changes in bowel habits. 
Other side effects with Sunitinib Accord may include: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Mouth pain/irritation, mouth sores/inflammation/dryness, taste disturbances, upset stomach, 
Reduction in the number of platelets, red blood cells and/or white blood cells (e.g. neutrophils).  
Shortness of breath. 
High blood pressure.  
Extreme tiredness, loss of strength. 
Swelling caused by fluid under the skin and around the eye, deep allergic rash.  
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, constipation, abdominal pain/swelling, loss/decrease of appetite. 
Decreased activity of thyroid gland (hypothyroidism).  
Dizziness.  
Headache.  
Nose bleeding.  
Back pain, joint pain. 
Pain in arms and legs.  
Yellow skin/skin discoloration, excess pigmentation of the skin, hair colour change, rash on the 
palms of the hands and soles of the feet, rash, dryness of the skin. 
Cough.  
Fever. 
Difficulty in falling asleep. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people  
• 
• 
Blood clots in the blood vessels.  
Deficiency of blood supply to the heart muscle, due to obstruction or constriction of the 
coronary arteries. 
Chest pain.  
Decreased in the amount of blood pumped by the heart.  
Fluid retention including around the lungs.  
Infections.  
Complication of severe infection (infection is present in the bloodstream) that can lead to tissue 
damage, organ failure, and death.  
Decreased blood sugar level (see section 2).. 
Loss of protein in the urine sometime resulting in swelling.  
Influenza-like syndrome.  
Abnormal blood tests including pancreatic and liver enzymes. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
High level of uric acid in the blood.  
Haemorrhoids, pain in the rectum, gingival bleeding, difficulty in swallowing or inability to 
swallow. 
Burning or painful sensation in the tongue, inflammation of the digestive tract lining, excessive 
gas in the stomach or intestine. 
•  Weight loss. 
•  Musculoskeletal pain (pain in muscles and bones), muscular weakness, muscular fatigue, muscle 
pain, muscle spasms. 
Nasal dryness, congested nose.  
Excessive tear flow. 
Abnormal sensation of the skin, itching, flaking and inflammation of the skin, blisters, acne, nail 
discolouration, hair loss.  
Abnormal sensations in extremities. 
Abnormally decreased/increased sensitivity, particularly to touch.  
Acid heartburn. 
Dehydration.  
Hot flushes. 
Abnormally coloured urine.  
Depression.  
Chills. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Life-threatening infection of the soft tissue including the ano-genital region (see section 2).   
Stroke.  
Heart attack caused by an interrupted or decreased blood supply to the heart. 
Changes in the electrical activity or abnormal rhythm of the heart.  
Fluid around the heart (pericardial effusion). 
Liver failure.  
Pain in the stomach (abdomen) caused by inflammation of the pancreas.  
Tumour destruction leading to hole in the intestine (perforation).  
Inflammation (swelling and redness) of the gallbladder with or without associated gallstones.  
Abnormal tube like passage from one normal body cavity to another body cavity or the skin.  
Pain in the mouth, teeth and/or jaw, swelling or sores inside the mouth, numbness or a feeling of 
heaviness in the jaw, or loosening of a tooth. These could be signs and symptoms of bone 
damage in the jaw (osteonecrosis), see section 2. 
Overproduction of thyroid hormones which increases the amount of energy the body uses at rest.  
Problems with wound healing after surgery.  
Increased blood level of enzyme (creatine phosphokinase) from muscle.  
Excessive reaction to an allergen including hay fever, skin rash, itchy skin, hives, swelling of 
body parts, and trouble breathing.  
Inflammation of the colon (colitis, colitis ischaemic).  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
• 
Severe reaction of the skin and/or mucous membranes (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic 
epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme).  
Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) – TLS consists of a group of metabolic complications that can 
occur during treatment of cancer. These complications are caused by the break-down products of 
dying cancer cells and may include the following: nausea, shortness of breath, irregular 
heartbeat, muscular cramps, seizure, clouding of urine and tiredness associated with abnormal 
laboratory test results (high potassium, uric acid and phosphorous levels and low calcium levels 
in the blood) that can lead to changes in kidney function and acute renal failure. 
Abnormal muscle breakdown which can lead to kidney problems (rhabdomyolysis). 
Abnormal changes in the brain that can cause a collection of symptoms including headache, 
confusion, seizures, and vision loss (reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome). 
Painful skin ulceration (pyoderma gangrenosum). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
81 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Inflammation of the liver (hepatitis). 
Inflammation of the thyroid gland.  
Damage to the smallest blood vessels known as thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data): 
• 
An enlargement and weakening of a blood vessel wall or a tear in a blood vessel wall 
(aneurysms and artery dissections). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store  Sunitinib Accord 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on carton, bottle and blister foil 
after “EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the pack is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Sunitinib Accord contains  
The active substance is sunitinib. Each hard capsule contains 12.5mg, 25mg, 37.5mg, or 50mg of 
sunitinib. The other ingredients are: 
- 
- 
Capsule content: cellulose, microcrystalline, mannitol (E421), croscarmellose sodium, povidone 
(E1201), magnesium stearate. 
Capsule shell: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), black iron oxide (E172) (For 25 mg and 50 mg), 
red iron oxide (E172) (For 12.5 mg, 25 mg, 50 mg), yellow iron oxide (E172) (For 25 mg, 37.5 
mg, 50 mg)  
-  Printing ink: shellac, titanium dioxide (E171), black iron oxide (E172), propylene glycol, 
ammonium hydroxide. 
What Sunitinib Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Sunitinib Accord 12.5 mg hard c apsules 
Gelatin  capsules (approximate length 14.3 mm) with orange cap and orange body, printed with white 
ink “12.5 mg” on the body, containing yellow  to orange granules. 
Sunitinib Accord 25 mg hard c apsules 
Gelatin  capsules (approximate length 15.9 mm) with caramel cap and orange body, printed with 
white ink “25 mg” on the body, containing yellow  to orange granules. 
Sunitinib Accord 37.5 mg hard c apsules 
Gelatin  capsules (approximate length 18.0 mm) with yellow cap and yellow body, printed with black 
ink “37.5 mg” on the body, containing yellow  to orange granules. 
Sunitinib Accord 50 mg hard c apsules 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gelatin  capsules (approximate length 19.4 mm) with caramel cap and caramel body, printed with white 
ink “50 mg” on the body, containing yellow  to orange granules. 
Sunitinib Accord is available in bottles of 30 capsules and blister packs containing 28 capsules and 
perforated unit dose blister packs containing 28 x 1 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll De Barcelona s/n, 
Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
Barcelona, 08039, 
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Remedica Ltd. 
Aharnon Street, Limassol Industrial Estate, 
Building 10, 3056 Limassol, 
Cyprus 
Pharmacare Premium Ltd. 
HHF003 Hal Far Industrial Estate, 
Birzebbugia, BBG3000 
Malta 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
