PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR LENACAPAVIR 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for lenacapavir (LEN). The RMP details 
important risks of LEN, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be 
obtained about LEN’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
The LEN summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how LEN should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for LEN should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the LEN 
RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What Is It Used For
Lenacapavir, in combination with other antiretroviral(s), is indicated for the treatment of adults 
with multidrug resistant HIV-1 infection for whom it is otherwise not possible to construct a 
suppressive anti-viral regimen. It contains LEN as the active substance, and it is given as both 
an oral tablet and a subcutaneous (SC) injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of LEN’s benefits can be found in the LEN EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/
EPAR/sunlenca 
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further
Characterize the Risks
Important risks of LEN, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about LEN’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the
medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of LEN is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of a medicinal product. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Table Part VI.1. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important Identified Risks  None 
Important Potential Risks 
None 
Missing Information 
Long-term safety 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Lenacapavir has been assigned the legal status of a medicine subject to medical prescription in 
the European Union (EU), whereby therapy should be initiated by a doctor experienced in the 
management of HIV-1 infection (as described in section 4.2 of the SmPC). 
Table Part VI.2. 
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks  None 
Important Potential Risk 
None 
Missing information 
Long-term safety 
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s) 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Other routine risk minimization measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicine’s legal status: restricted medical prescription, whereby therapy should 
be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of HIV-1 infection  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
• 
Study GS-US-200-4625 - Safety of LEN in Heavily-Treatment-Experienced 
(HTE) participants with multi drug resistant HIV-1 infection 
 
 
• 
Study GS-US-200-4334 - Safety of LEN in treatment-naive participants 
with HIV-1 infection 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorization 
development plan. 
Missing information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s) 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC section 4.6 
PL section 2 
Other routine risk minimization measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicine’s legal status: restricted medical prescription, whereby therapy should 
be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of HIV-1 infection  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorization 
development plan. 
II.C. 
II.C.1. 
Postauthorization Development Plan 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
LEN. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
Table Part VI.3. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
Short Study Name 
Purpose of the Study 
Study GS-US-200-4625 - Safety of 
LEN in HTE participants with multi 
drug resistant HIV-1 infection 
To evaluate the safety of LEN in combination with an optimized 
background regimen (OBR) through 52 weeks of treatment in adults with 
MDR HIV-1 who are failing their current regimen. 
Study GS-US-200-4334 - Safety of 
LEN in treatment-naive participants 
with HIV-1 infection 
To evaluate the safety of LEN-containing regimens through 80 weeks of 
treatment in treatment-naïve participants with HIV-1. 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
(APR) 
To collect information on the risk of birth defects with antiretroviral drugs, 
including LEN, to which pregnant women are exposed. 
 
 
 
