Summary of risk management plan for Quadrivalent Recombinant Influenza 
Vaccine 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Quadrivalent Recombinant Influenza 
Vaccine (RIV4). There are no important risks or important missing information for RIV4 that are 
considered as safety concerns. 
The Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflet give essential information to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how RIV4 should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Quadrivalent Recombinant Influenza Vaccine (RIV4) should be 
read in the context of information provided in the RMP and the assessment report including its 
plain-language summary, all of which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
New important safety concerns or any information that impacts the benefit-risk analysis will be 
included in updates of RIV4 RMP. 
VI.1.  THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR  
RIV4 is indicated for active immunization by intramuscular route in persons 18 years of age and 
older for the prevention of influenza disease. RIV4 is a recombinant influenza vaccine 
manufactured using a baculovirus expression vector system and recombinant DNA technology. 
Further information about the evaluation of RIV4 benefits can be found in the EPAR, including in 
its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/supemtek 
VI.2.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS  
There are no safety concerns for the RIV4 and no risk minimization measures beyond proposed 
SmPC. Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
Anaphylaxis has been communicated in the draft SmPC, in section 4.3, “Contraindications”, 
section 4.4 “Special warnings and precautions for use”, section 4.8 “Undesirable effects”. In the 
draft SmPC following information is provided. “Hypersensitivity to a previous administration of 
RIV4 or a vaccine containing the same components or constituents is a contraindication. As with 
all injectable vaccines, appropriate medical treatment and supervision should always be readily 
available in case of an anaphylactic event following the administration of the vaccine.” In the 
package leaflet following information is provided for the healthcare professionals. “Appropriate 
medical treatment and supervision should always be readily available in case of a rare 
anaphylactic event following the administration of the vaccine”. 
In addition to the measure of communication via draft SmPC, the information about adverse 
reactions is collected continuously and regularly analysed and presented in the PBRER 
 
assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
VI.2.1. List of important risks and missing information  
There are no important identified risks with RIV4 that require inclusion as a safety concern in the 
RMP. 
There are no important potential risks with RIV4 that require inclusion as a safety concern in the 
RMP. 
There is no important missing information with RIV4 that requires inclusion as a safety concern 
in the RMP. 
Table 1   List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Not applicable 
Important potential risks 
Not applicable 
Important missing information  Not applicable 
VI.2.2. Summary of important risks  
The safety information in the proposed SmPC is aligned to the reference medicinal product. There 
are no safety concerns for RIV4 or no additional risk minimization measures. 
VI.2.3.   Post-authorisation development plan  
VI.2.3.1.  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation for RIV4.  
VI.2.3.2.  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
Additional pharmacovigilance in the post-marketing setting includes participating in Development 
of Robust Innovative Vaccine Effectiveness (DRIVE) and conducting VAP00003, a phase IV, 
multi-center, modified-cluster randomized study (VAP00003) to assess the effectiveness of RIV4 
compared to standard-dose inactivated influenza vaccine in adults. 
The objective of the Phase IV study is to estimate the relative vaccine effectiveness (rVE) of 
RIV4 versus Standard Dose Inactivated Influenza Vaccine (SD-IIV4) in vaccinees aged 18–64 
years against all PCR-confirmed influenza. This study is being conducted in the United States 
using Kaiser Permanente database. 
 
The post-authorisation development plan is summarized below. 
Table 2 - Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
1.  Development of Robust Innovative Vaccine Effectiveness (DRIVE) 
Purpose of the study: 
Objectives is to measure season IVE against medically attended laboratory-confirmed 
influenza, by vaccine brand, then by vaccine type (e.g. by antigen preparation strategy, number 
of virus strains, adjuvant,) then by overall influenza vaccination. To comply with the Guideline 
on Influenza vaccines - Non-clinical and Clinical Module (EMA/CHMP/VWP/457259/2014) of 
July 2016, a supporting IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative) program called on DRIVE. 
DRIVE aims to assess the feasibility of building a sustainable platform in Europe able to 
generate brand specific influenza vaccine effectiveness data in Europe. 
2.  VAP00003: Examining vaccine effectiveness (VE) of RIV4 relative to standard dose 
inactivated influenza vaccine among Kaiser Permanente Northern California 
members aged 18-64 years 
Purpose of the study: To estimate the rVE of RIV4 versus SD-IIV against all PCR-confirmed 
influenza in vaccinees aged 18–64 years, this study will compare the incidence of PCR-
confirmed influenza and various hospitalization definitions among RIV4 vaccinees versus SD-
IIV vaccinees. The primary comparison will be focused on adults aged 50–64 years at KPNC 
during the 2018–2019 and 2019–2020 influenza seasons. All adults aged 18–64 years will also 
be assessed for both influenza seasons.  
 
REFERENCES  
Not applicable 
 
