SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
to 
Introduction 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Sustiva. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 March 2004.  For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
Current options for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infected patients consist of 
nucleoside  analogue  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  (NRTIs),  protease  inhibitors  (PIs)  and  non-
nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs).  
Combination  therapy,  especially  triple  regimens,  is  considered  to  be  the  standard  of  care  of  HIV 
infected  patients.  The  antiretroviral  agents  already  authorised  within  the  European  Union  comprise 
zidovudine (ZDV), didanosine (ddI), zalcitalbine (ddC), stavudine, lamivudine and abacavir as NRTIs, 
ritonavir, indinavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, amprenavir and lopinavir as PIs,  nevirapine and efavirenz as 
NNRTI, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) as nucleoside monophosphate (nucleotide) analogue. 
For  the  treatment  of  HIV  infected  children,  the  only  available  options  are  lamivudine,  stavudine  and 
nelfinavir.  
The first category of agents (NRTIs) acts at an early stage in the HIV life cycle by blocking the activity 
of reverse transcriptase. This enzyme is essential for the conversion of viral RNA to proviral DNA, thus 
allowing integration into host cell DNA and subsequent viral replication. In contrast, the second group 
of agents (PIs) acts at a later stage in the viral replication. HIV protease is an enzyme essential for the 
production  of  mature,  progeny  virions.  The  last  group  of  agents  (NNRTIs)  acts  on  the  reverse 
transcriptase  enzyme through  a different  mechanism  compared to nucleoside analogues  RT inhibitors. 
the  RNA  dependent  and  
the  HIV  RT  enzyme  and  block 
NNRTIs  bind  directly 
DNA-dependent DNA polymerase activities by causing a disruption of the enzyme catalytic site.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The  approved  indication  at  the  recommended  dose  of  600  mg  once  daily  is  the  following  “Sustiva  is 
indicated  in  antiviral  combination  treatment  of  HIV-1  infected  adults,  adolescents  and  children  of  
3  years  of  age  and  older”.    Since  the  proposed  dosage  strengths  for  the  film-coated  tablet  form  are  
300 and 600 mg, it is recognised that the form is mostly intended for adult treatment, although it may 
also be suited for adolescents and children within the appropriate weight range.  
The active substance of Sustiva, efavirenz is a new chemical entity representative of the NNRTIs class. 
Sustiva  is  presented  as  hard  capsules  for  oral  administration  in  three  different  strengths,  containing  
50 mg, 100 mg or 200 mg of efavirenz, as an oral solution containing 30 mg/ml efavirenz, and also as 
film-coated tablets containing efavirenz 300 mg or 600 mg. 
Sustiva  is  formulated  as  a  conventional  hard  capsule  containing  50,  100  or  200  mg  efavirenz  and 
excipients commonly used for this pharmaceutical form. The different strengths are direct multiples or 
sub-multiples  of  each  other  with  respect  to  the  ingredients  entering  in  the  composition  but  are 
distinguished by their size, colour and printing. 
The long-term use of these products is limited by emergence of resistance, by toxicity and inconvenient 
dosing schedules or formulations. Further therapeutic agents are therefore clearly needed. 
Part II: Chemical,  pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition  
Capsules 
2. 
• 
Sustiva  is  supplied  in  opaque,  white  high-density  polyethylene  bottle,  with  a  polypropylene  but  
child-resistant cap, containing 30 capsules (50 and 100 mg) or 90 capsules (200 mg). Sustiva 200  mg 
hard capsules is also supplied in aluminium foil/polyvinylchloride film blister. 
1/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Oral Solution 
• 
Film-coated tablets 
There are no ingredients of animal origin in the product. 
The primary packs are round, white, opaque HDPE bottles with polypropylene child-resistant closures 
or blister packs (comprised of white opaque PVE/PE/Aclar blisters sealed with an aluminium foil lid). 
The  oral  solution  consists  of  a  clear  solution  of  efavirenz  (30  mg/ml)  in  a  vehicle  of  medium  chain 
triglycerides with an antimicrobial preservative (benzoic acid) and a strawberry-mint flavour. 
The ingredients are typical for wet granulated tablets :  microcrystalline cellulose, lactose monohydrate, 
croscarmellose  sodium,  sodium  lauril  sulphate,  hydroxypropyl  cellulose,  magnesium  stearate,  and 
proprietary film-coatings (Opadry). 
Efavirenz  300  mg  film-coated  tablets  are  white,  capsule-shaped  tablets  and  the  600  mg  strength  are 
yellow, capsule-shaped tablets. Both strengths of tablets are packaged in either HDPE bottles fitted with 
child-resistant  closures,  or  in  blister  packs.  Each  pack  contains  sufficient  tablets  for  thirty  days 
treatment. 
This  30  mg/ml  oral  solution  presentation  is  presented  in  an  induction  sealed,  opaque,  high  density 
polyethylene  (HDPE)  200  ml  bottle  with  a  two-piece  child  resistant  cap,  with  each  bottle  containing  
180 ml of the oral solution. An appropriately calibrated oral dosing syringe and a press-in bottle adapter 
are  included  in  the  carton  for  use  by  the  patient  or  practitioner  after  the  primary  container  has  been 
opened. The oral dosing syringe is CE marked and is approved for the intended use. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Efavirenz is a white to slightly pink non-hygroscopic, crystalline powder.  The structure of efavirenz has 
been  adequately  proven  and  the  physico-chemical  characteristics  well  described.  Concerning  the 
physical  aspects  of  the  active  substance  which  may  have  an  impact  on  bioavailability,  there  are  four 
physical forms (I, II, III and IV) as identified by x-ray diffraction. Forms I, II and III are polymorphs. 
Form  IV  is  a  non-stoichiometric  heptane  solvate.  Forms  II,  III,  and  IV  are  metastable  with  respect  to 
form  I  at  temperatures  >40ºC  and  convert  to  Form  I  on  heating.  X-ray  diffraction  and  differential 
scanning  calorimetry  (DSC)  show  that  the  current  synthetic  processes  yield  materials  of  a  single 
crystalline  form  (Form  I),  which  remains  unchanged  throughout  the  subsequent  formulation  and 
manufacture of the finished products. Data concerning efavirenz melting point, solubility, UV spectrum, 
pKa, and kinetics of efavirenz degradation in solution are described. Efavirenz is a chiral molecule but 
the  enantiomeric  purity  of  efavirenz  is  adequately  controlled  during  the  synthesis.  An  alternative 
manufacturing process, implemented during the post-authorisation phase, results in the synthesis of the 
active substance with the same quality. 
 Degradation  of  efavirenz  in  solution  is  due  to  specific  acid,  specific  base  and  solvent  catalysis,  and 
follows  first  order  kinetics  over  the  pH  range  of  0.6  to  12.8.  All  physicochemical  characteristics  of 
efavirenz  were  considered  in  subsequent  formulation  studies.  Bioequivalence  studies  were  carried  out 
with product containing active substance in physical Form I. 
Stability studies have confirmed the already-known good solid state and solution stability of efavirenz.  
Active substance 
Other ingredients 
• 
Capsules  
All  other  ingredients  entering  in  the  preparation  of  the  capsules  meet  pharmacopoeial  requirements 
except  for  the  hard  capsules  which  are  controlled  according  to  in-house  specifications.  Satisfactory 
European Pharmacopoeia certificates of suitability have been provided, magnesium stearate and gelatine 
to  demonstrate  compliance  with  Commission  Directive  1999/82/EC  and  the  Note  for  Guidance  on 
2/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Capsules  
Oral Solution 
Film-coated tablets 
Product development and finished product 
Minimising  the  Risk  of  Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Medicinal 
Products  (CPMP/BWP/1230/98  rev.1).  The  packaging  material  is  controlled  according  to  relevant 
specifications. 
Statements have also been provided from the suppliers of each excipient stating that all ingredients are 
of non-animal origin. 
Both the medium chain triglycerides and the benzoic acid comply with the current specifications of the 
Ph.Eur.  The flavouring agent complies with an in-house specification. 
A  PhEur  certificate  of  suitability  (TSE)  is  provided  for  the  magnesium  stearate  from  the  stated 
manufacturer  (R0-CEP 2000-176-Rev  00).   An  assurance is  provided that the  lactose is TSE free  and 
that all other ingredients in the products are not of animal origin. 
Efavirenz  has  a  low  aqueous  solubility  and  a  high  permeability  and  therefore  the  pharmaceutical 
development focused on the preparation of a rapidly dissolving dosage form. Efavirenz has favourable 
chemical  stability  properties.  The  portion  of  efavirenz  in  the  final  formulation  is  high  so  content 
uniformity is of no concern with respect to the choice of a hard capsule as the dosage form. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Stability  studies  have  been  performed  according  to  ICH  requirements.  The  capsules  are  chemically 
stable  in  all  packaging  configurations  and  under  all  conditions.  At  the  time  of  the  marketing 
authorisation,  stability  results  supported  a  shelf-life  of  18  months  for  efavirenz  hard  capsules  when 
stored in its packaging and long-term data would be submitted on ongoing basis. Additional data have 
been  subsequently  provided  and  the  expiry  period  is  now  extended  to  24  months.  Efavirenz  does  not 
need any specific precautions for storage. 
Since  the  quantities  of  ingredients  are  adjusted  pro  rata  to  the  strength,  the  manufacturing  process 
selected  is  similar  up  to  the  encapsulation  point.  The  critical  step  in  the  manufacture  is  the  wet 
granulation,  which  includes  the  following  steps:  blending,  wet  granulating,  drying,  milling  and 
encapsulating.  Results  on  the  validation  confirm  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  under  control  and 
ensures both batch to batch reproducibility and compliance with standard specifications.  
Tests  at  release  are  standard  and  include  among  others  limits  for  assay,  degradation  products,  and 
the  product.  
dissolution.  These 
The  specifications  for  the  degradation  products  at  release  and  end-of  shelf-life  are  supported  by  the 
results from batch analysis.  
Although  the  product  meets  the  requirements  of  the  Ph.Eur.  test  of  antimicrobial  preservative 
effectiveness  both  in  the  presence  and  absence  of  the  benzoic  acid,  the  presence  of  benzoic  acid  has 
been  demonstrated  to  offer  a  greater  effectiveness  against  moulds.  The  need  for  high  efficacy  of 
preservation  has  been  accepted  because  of  the  immunocompromised  nature  of  the  patient  population.  
A toxicological assessment supports the low oral toxicity of benzoic acid, and therefore its inclusion in 
this formulation is considered justified. 
Product development and finished product 
reproducible  clinical  performance  of 
  Stability of the product 
tests  should  ensure 
Oral Solution 
• 
• 
The manufacturing process involves two main dissolution steps: benzoic acid dissolution and efavirenz 
dissolution.  Scale-up and validation studies confirm that the manufacturing process is well controlled 
and ensures both batch to batch reproducibility and compliance with standard specifications. 
3/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stability of the product 
Nine production batches were fully analysed and results show compliance with specifications and batch-
to-batch consistency. 
Proposed specifications, methods procedures and validation, and batch analysis results ensure consistent 
quality for this medicinal product. 
Finished product specifications were adequately justified and are based on current standards, including 
CPMP  and  ICH  guidelines.  Justification  for  the  wider  shelf-life  limits  for  efavirenz  was  provided, 
although when further full scale production batches have been produced the applicant has undertaken to 
revisit the shelf-life limits and to tighten or further justify them. 
Three  primary  stability  batches  are  being  tested  and  data  are  available  for  up  to  12  months  for  the 
25ºC/60%RH condition, for up to 6 months at 40ºC/75%RH, and for shorter time periods under more 
stressful conditions. Although there is a slight trend for decreases in the content of both efavirenz and 
benzoic  acid  with  time  and  temperature,  results  from  other  conditions  support  the  conclusion  that  the 
formulation is stable for the testing period. There was no difference in the results from storage of the 
bottles in the upright or inverted positions. 
Results  from  supportive  batches  using  an  earlier  sugar  containing  formulation  in  glass  and  HDPE 
remain within specifications for 24 months (25°C/60%RH) and for 6 months (accelerated and stressed 
conditions, HDPE bottles). A proposed expiration  period of 24 months is sought by the applicant  and 
can  be  accepted  as  the  stability  data  provided  confirm  the  stability  of  the  product  is  acceptable  over  
24 months when stored below 30°C. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Hard gelatine capsules containing 50, 100 and 200 mg of efavirenz are currently licensed for marketing. 
With  a  usual  daily  dose  of  600  mg,  the  current  capsule  dosage  form  requires  patients  to  administer 
multiple  dosage  units.  Therefore,  300  mg  and  600  mg  tablets  will  reduce  pill  burden  thus  improving 
patient compliance. The aim of the formulation development was to develop tablets bioequivalent to the 
commercial  capsules  (200mg)  with  acceptable  physicochemical  properties,  stability,  and  ease  of 
manufacture. 
The manufacturing process of the finished product is divided into nine operations: weighing, high shear 
granulating, wet milling, wet milling/delumping, fluid bed drying, blending, compression, coating and 
printing.  Each  batch  is  comprised  of  six  granulation  sub-batches,  which  are  blended  to  provide  one 
batch of tablet blend. The core tablets for the 300 mg and 600 mg strengths are prepared from powder 
blend  of  the  same  composition,  and  the  core  tablet  weight  is  adjusted  to  obtain  the  appropriate  dose. 
In the SPC, the indicated shelf-life after first opening is one month. A study on the microbiological and 
chemical  properties  of  the  product  conducted  over  a  two  month  period  with  daily  use  of  the  syringe 
showed no increase in bioburden and no significant decrease in either efavirenz or benzoic acid content. 
In  a  second  study,  efavirenz  30  mg/ml  oral  solution  was  placed  into  the  oral  syringe  and  stored  at 
ambient  conditions  for  seven  days.  The  product  remained  stable.  The  claimed  in-use  shelf-life  and 
storage conditions have therefore been supported. 
The  specifications  and  associated  control  methods  are  relevant  to  a  tablet  formulation  and  are 
acceptable.  
Film-coated tablets 
• 
Product development and finished product 
•  
Stability of the product 
Three  primary  stability  batches  for  each  strength  (300  and  600  mg)  were  studied,  in  both  pack  types, 
under  ICH  conditions:  25ºC/60%RH,  30ºC/60%RH,  40ºC/75%RH,  50ºC,  and  photostability.   
The  results,  including  the  content  of  degradation  products,  are  well  within  the  agreed  specifications. 
 Results from other conditions support the conclusion that the formulation is stable for the duration of 
4/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
the testing period. Results from supportive batches using earlier formulations and stored in either HDPE 
bottles and film/foil blisters also remain within specifications for 24 months and for 12 months. 
Capsules 
Oral Solution 
Bioequivalence 
In total, the results support the shelflife and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Different  formulations  have  been  used  during  the  clinical  development.  Although  efavirenz  is 
formulated using a wet granulation process, a micronised formulation has been used primarily in clinical 
studies. In one study, 100 mg and 200 mg capsules manufactured using a wet granulation formulation 
have been tested against a micronised clinical trial formulation and have been shown to be bioequivalent 
in terms of AUC. The statistically significant difference in Cmax is considered of no clinical relevance in 
terms of either efficacy or adverse events. Similar results have been obtained from another study where 
bioequivalence,  in  terms  of  AUC,  is  demonstrated  for  both  100  and  200  mg  wet  granulation 
formulations  compared to  the clinical trial formulation. The  bioequivalence in  terms  of Cmax has  been 
demonstrated  with  the  200  mg  commercial  formulation.  Finally,  capsules  obtained  from  two  different 
lots of active substance have been compared and are found bioequivalent. The bioequivalence between 
the  formulation  intended  for  the  market  and  the  ones  used  during  clinical  trials  has  therefore  been 
demonstrated. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Two  human  bioequivalence  studies  were  carried  out  using  two  different  tablet  formulations  (see  the 
clinical  section  of  this  report  for  further  details),  containing  5%  croscarmellose  sodium.  In  study  
266-054 in vitro dissolution profiles obtained with tablets and capsules were different whereas human 
pharmacokinetics  of  the  formulation  given  as  a  single  dose  (2×300  mg  tablets)  was  not  significantly 
different  (n=12)  from  that  of  the  commercial  formulation  (2×300  mg  capsules).  The  causes  for 
differences  in  dissolution  profiles  were  then  identified  and  corrected.  In  study  266-058  the  same  
300  mg  tablet  formulation  was  used  as  in  study  266-054,  as  well  as  a  600  mg  tablet  formulation.  
In  vitro  dissolution  profiles  were  identical  to  that  obtained  with  200-mg  capsule  formulation.  
Both  300  mg  and  600  mg  tablets  demonstrated  bioequivalence  with  respect  to  area  under  the  curve 
(AUC) but not to Cmax (n=28). The latter was higher than that of the commercial capsule formulation, 
which  did  not  confirm  the  results  obtained  in  trial  266-054.  Therefore  the  formulation  containing  5% 
croscarmellose sodium was not considered for further commercial development. In order to optimise the 
formulation, 
the  binder 
(hydroxypropyl  cellulose,  HPC)  were  varied.  Eight  formulations  were  prepared  by  varying  the 
concentration of croscarmellose sodium (2.0-5.0%) and HPC (3.2-10.0%), and compared with respect to 
their in vitro dissolution profiles and their pharmacokinetics (in dogs). The tablet formulation containing 
4.0%  croscarmellose  sodium  (and  3.2%  HPC)  showed  overall  results  more  similar  to  the  commercial 
capsule, and was therefore selected for commercial development. 
In developing a new oral liquid formulation using a non-aqueous solvent the applicant performed three 
comparative  bioavailability  studies  using  the  commercial  capsule  as  the  reference.  Two  liquid 
formulations  were  tested  in  the  first  study  and  it  was concluded  that,  in  the  fasted  state,  the  extent  of 
absorption was approximately 20% lower when compared to the reference. Therefore, in a second study 
the  liquid  formulation  was  tested  using  either  a  200  or  240  mg  dose.  The  results  confirmed  that  the  
240 mg dose was bioequivalent to the reference capsule for AUC but not for Cmax . Finally the intended 
for market oral solution was again tested against the commercial capsule. The results confirmed the two 
earlier  comparisons.  Therefore  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  intended  for  market  oral  solution  is 
bioequivalent  to  the  200  mg  reference  capsule  for  AUC  but  not  for  Cmax  when  administered  at  the  
240 mg dose level tested in healthy adult subjects in the fasted state. 
the  disintegrant  (croscarmellose  sodium)  and 
the  concentrations  of 
Film –coated tablets 
• 
5/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The major metabolites, 8-hydroxy-efavirenz and its glucuronide conjugate, have minimal or no antiviral 
activity. The IC95s for the wild type virus and the Y181C mutant, which is resistant to several NNRTIs 
were similar (3 and 6 nM respectively) while for the K103N mutant, which is the most resistant single 
base  pair  mutant  the  IC95  was  100  nM.  For  double  base  pair  mutants  the  IC95  values  range  from  
400 nM up to > 3000 nM. Cytotoxicity was observed at concentrations 10 000 fold higher than that of 
IC90 values.  
Efavirenz  is  a  benzoxazinone  of  the  non  nucleotide  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  group  (NNRTIs), 
which interrupts the reverse transcription of viral RNA to DNA, a crucial step for HIV replication, by a 
mechanism  of  action  different  from  NRTIs.  Efavirenz  binds  directly  to  the  HIV-1  RT  enzyme  and 
blocks the RNA-dependent and DNA-dependent DNA polymerase activities by causing a disruption of 
the  enzyme’s  catalytic  site.  Efavirenz  is  specific  for  HIV-1  RT  and  is  a  mixed-type,  mainly  non-
competitive  inhibitor.  Efavirenz  does  not  inhibit  HIV-2  RT  nor  eukaryotic  DNA  polymerase  such  as 
human DNA polymerases α, ß, γ and δ. 
The antiviral activity investigated in vitro reveals that efavirenz is active against a broad range of HIV-1 
strains, including clinical strains and zidovudine-resistant mutants. The activity in HIV subtype A has, 
however not been investigated. The dose required to inhibit the viral replication by 95 % (IC95) ranges 
between 3 to 25 nM, the higher values referring to ZDV-resistant clinical isolates. Higher IC90 values 
were  observed  for  clinical  isolates  that  contained  RT  mutations.  The  antiviral  activity  of  efavirenz  is 
influenced by protein binding, and inhibitory levels increase approximately by 16-fold in the presence 
of human serum albumin and alpha-1 acid glycoprotein.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Age-related  differences  have  been  observed  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  efavirenz  in  monkeys 
administered  45  mg/kg/day.  AUC  values  in  young  animals  are  lower  than  those  in  adults  and  the 
difference increases along the 14 days dosing period. In addition, the AUCs in young animals are lower 
at day 14 (104.7 µM.h) than at day 1 (210.5 µM.h). Since this has not been observed in adult animals, 
the autoinduction of efavirenz metabolism may only be present in young animals. 
Following single oral administration to rats (10, 40, and 60 mg/kg) and rhesus monkeys (2, 10, 40, 80 
and 120 mg/kg) the pharmacokinetic profile of efavirenz is linear in terms of Cmax while the increase in 
AUC is more than dose-proportional. On the other hand, in humans, the AUC values are less than dose 
proportional. The oral bioavailability calculated in rats and monkeys is 16 % and 42 %, respectively. 
Administration  of  multiple  doses  results  in  decreased  exposure  in  rats  and  in  rhesus  monkeys, 
suggesting  an  autoinduction  of  efavirenz  metabolism.  This  pattern  has,  however,  not  been  reported  in 
cynomolgus monkeys. The exposure to efavirenz is higher in female than in male rats because of higher 
metabolic activities in males. 
The safety pharmacology studies showed  mild and transient bradycardia and respiratory depression in 
dogs. In mice, some effects on the central nervous system (e.g. reduced activity, ptosis) were observed 
at oral doses of 100 mg/kg or higher administered orally.  
Limited  in  vitro  data  indicate  a  synergistic  activity  of  efavirenz  in  combination  with  zidovudine, 
didanosine and indinavir as it could be expected due to different sites of actions of NRTIs and protease 
inhibitors (PIs). The antiviral activity of efavirenz has not been evaluated in animal studies in vivo. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  efavirenz  has  been  determined  using  validated  testing  methods  in  the 
species used in the toxicity studies after single and multiple dose administration.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Efavirenz is highly bound to plasma proteins, primarily to serum albumin, with a mean free fraction of 
0.58 % in rat, 0.57 % in rhesus monkey and 0.25-0.5 % in human plasma.  
Efavirenz distributes rapidly and extensively in rats after oral dosing, with high levels found in stomach, 
duodenum, jejunum and liver. Efavirenz crosses the placenta and is excreted in milk. The concentration 
of  efavirenz  in  cerebrospinal  fluid  (CSF)  showed  dose-dependent  increases  in  one  monkey  study.  
6/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The  CSF/plasma  ratios  ranged  from  0.54  %  to  0.96  %,  which  are  comparable  to  the  free  unbound 
fraction in plasma in rat and rhesus monkey. 
Toxicology 
The  toxicological  profile  of  efavirenz  has  been  studied  through  appropriate  studies  conducted  in 
compliance with Good Laboratory Practices. 
From the pharmacokinetic and toxicokinetic studies, it can be concluded that the cynomolgus monkey is 
the  most  relevant  species  for  toxicity  studies.  Higher  systemic  exposure  levels  can  be  attained  in 
monkeys compared with rats and the metabolic profile is similar to that in humans. 
Excretion  in  urine  and  faeces  is  comparable  after  an  oral  dose  of  75  mg/kg  in  monkeys.  In  rats,  low 
doses  of  10  mg/kg  were  primarily  excreted  in  faeces,  while  after  an  oral  dose  of  250  mg/kg  urinary 
excretion increased almost to the same levels as faecal excretion. 
The  plasma  half-life  of  efavirenz  in  rats  is  approximately  0.8  to  1.9  hours  compared  to  more  than  
40 hours in humans. To optimise exposure and to allow for an acclimatisation period, twice daily dosing 
after an induction phase with once daily doses has been used in most toxicological studies. 
The major isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of efavirenz in cynomolgus monkeys and humans are 
CYP2B,  CYP3A,  CYP2B6  and  CYP3A4  respectively.  In  vivo  and  in  vitro  metabolism  studies  have 
shown  that  all  the  efavirenz  metabolites  identified  in  humans  are  also  found  in  rats  and  cynomolgus 
monkeys. The major inactive metabolites identified in the three species are the 8-hydroxy efavirenz and 
its  glucuronide  conjugate.  Three  metabolites  have  in  addition  been  identified  in  rats,  including  a 
cysteinyl-glycine and a glutathione adduct. The human metabolic profile is qualitatively closer to that in 
cynomolgus monkeys than in rat. In vitro studies using liver microsomes have shown that efavirenz is 
an  inhibitor  of  UDP-glucuronosyl  transferases,  CYP3A4,  2C9  and  2C19,  and  may  interact  with 
substances metabolised via these isoenzymes. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The  minimal  lethal  doses  were  250  mg/kg  in  mouse  after  single  intraperitoneal  administration  and  
500 mg/kg in rat after single oral administration. 
Repeated dose toxicity studies have been performed in rats up to 27 weeks, in rhesus and cynomolgus 
monkeys up to 57 weeks. Liver and kidney were identified as the main target organs. In rats treated with 
doses  up  to  500  mg/kg/bid,  the  major  cause  of  death  appeared  to  be  associated  with  nephrotoxicity, 
which was higher in males compared to females. This toxic effect was time- and dose dependent from 
50 mg/kg/bid for males and from 250 mg/kg/bid for females. Nephrotoxicity in rats seemed to be due to 
the formation of a glutathion adduct via a species-specific metabolic pathway. The lesions would appear 
to  be,  at  least  partially,  reversible.  In  cynomolgus  monkeys,  some  renal  findings  were  reported  after 
administration  of  high  doses  of  efavirenz  for  5  days.    However,  no  renal  toxicity  was  seen  in 
cynomolgus monkeys given doses of efavirenz achieving AUC values 5-times the clinical exposure for 
1 year. Based on the long term studies in monkeys and the lack of efavirenz-mediated nephrotoxicity in 
patients during clinical trials, clinical monitoring of kidney function is not considered necessary. 
The  doses  at  which  toxicity  is  evident  corresponded  to  systemic  exposure  levels  comparable  or  not 
much higher than the expected clinical levels. Higher systemic exposures were achieved in cynomolgus 
monkey studies, but margins of exposure at the high dose which was toxic, were at the most 4 to 6 times 
the  expected  clinical  exposure  at  the  recommended  doses.  When  a  no-effect-level  (NOEL)  could  be 
identified, this corresponded to AUC values equivalent to or lower than in clinical therapy.  
Efavirenz-mediated  hepatotoxicity  has  been  observed  in  all  species  and  is  characterised  by  increased 
liver  weight  and  centrilobular  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  probably  due  to  an  induction  the  hepatic 
enzymes.  Minimal  biliary  hyperplasia  was  observed  in  the  liver  of  four  of  the  eight  cynomolgus 
monkeys  given  efavirenz  for  1  year  at  a  dose  resulting  in  mean  AUC  values  approximately  5-fold 
greater than those in humans given 600 mg/day, but was not observed at a dose resulting in mean AUC 
values of 1.5-fold.  
A 105-week oral gavage toxicity study has been performed post-authorisation, in 5 male and 5 female 
cynomolgus monkeys, receiving 0, 60 or 150mg/kg/day of efavirenz, followed by a 26 week recovery 
period. Biliary hyperplasia was observed in cynomolgus monkeys given efavirenz for ≥ 1 year at a dose 
resulting  in  mean  AUC  values  approximately  2-fold  greater  than  those  in  humans  given  the 
7/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommended  dose.  The  observed  multifocal  biliary  hyperplasia  was  reverted  during  the  6  months 
recovery period.  
Biliary fibrosis was observed in rats given very high doses of efavirenz (500 mg/kg/day). 
Reproductive and development toxicity have been investigated in rats, rabbits and monkeys. Efavirenz 
did not impair mating or fertility of male or female rats (doses up to 100 mg/kg/bid), and did not affect 
sperm  or  offspring  of  treated  male  rats  (doses  up  to  200  mg/bid).    The  reproductive  performance  of 
offsprings born  to female  rats  given efavirenz  was  not affected.   As  a  result  of the rapid  clearance  of 
efavirenz in rats, systemic drug exposures achieved at the doses used in these studies are equivalent to 
or below those achieved in humans given recommended doses of efavirenz. 
The  toxicity  of  efavirenz  in  young  animals  was  investigated  in  infant  rhesus  monkeys  treated  for  
1 month starting on day 2 of life. At doses of 30 mg/kg/bid corresponding to AUC values approximately 
1-2  fold  higher  than  in  humans,  efavirenz  was  well  tolerated.  Efavirenz  was  not  well  tolerated  by 
monkeys  administered  45  mg/kg  bid.  Poor  appetite,  lethargy,  dehydration  and/or  weakness  were 
observed.  Although  no  new  toxic  effects  were  identified,  data  suggest  that  young  animals  are  more 
sensitive than adults. These observations have been taken into account when recommending the use of 
efavirenz in children  
In cynomolgus monkeys, increases in ALT activity have been observed after administration of efavirenz 
doses  resulting  in  AUC  values  approximately  1.5-fold  or  higher  than  the  expected  human  value.  
In addition  a decrease in  plasma  thyroid hormone levels  as well as thyroid follicular  cell hypertrophy 
have  been  reported.    This  change  is  considered  to  be  a  result  of  increased  thyroxine  clearance  and  a 
compensatory elevation in serum thyroid stimulating hormone secondary to hepatic enzyme induction.  
This  finding  is  likely  to  be  of  limited  clinical  relevance,  especially  since  there  has  been  no  findings 
suggestive on an effect of efavirenz on the thyroid function of patients during the clinical trials.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
A teratogenic effect of efavirenz was observed in cynomolgus monkeys. Malformations were observed 
in 3 of 20 foetuses/newborns from efavirenz-treated cynomolgus monkeys given 60 mg/kg/day, a dose 
resulting in plasma drug concentrations similar to those in humans given 600 mg/day. Anencephaly and 
unilateral anophthalmia were observed in one foetus, microophthalmia in another, and cleft palate in a 
third  foetus.  Owing  to  suspected  embryotoxic  and  teratogenic  effects    of  efavirenz,  the  compound 
should not be used in pregnant women unless clearly necessary as indicated in the relevant section of 
the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The only reproductive/developmental effects in rats judged to be related to efavirenz treatment were a 
slight increase in foetal resorptions in females given 200 mg/kg/day and an increase in pup mortality in 
dams dosed with 100 or 200 mg/kg/day. Efavirenz was not teratogenic or embryotoxic when given to 
pregnant rabbits at 75 mg/kg/day, a dose that produced peak plasma concentrations similar to, and AUC 
values approximately half of those achieved in humans given 600 mg of efavirenz once daily. 
In rat carcinogenicity study, 50 males and 50 females per group, were administered efavirenz at 0, 25, 
50, and 100 mg/kg/day during 24 months. Concentrations of the drug in plasma were evaluated in the 
animals following 6 months of dosing. Efavirenz plasma concentrations in female were 1.4 to 2.9 fold 
greater  than  those  for  male  rats.  Moreover,  the  plasma  concentrations  of  efavirenz  at  all  dosages 
evaluated  in  the  study  were  below  those  attained  in  humans  given  therapeutic  dosages  (600  mg/day). 
Since toxicokinetic data indicates that efavirenz accumulates in milk of lactating animals and crosses the 
placenta, appropriate information has been included in the SPC. 
Efavirenz is not  mutagenic or clastogenic in a standard battery of  in vivo and in vitro genotoxic tests. 
Carcinogenicity  studies  of  efavirenz  were  carried  out  on  monkeys,  rats  and  mice.In  cynomolgus 
monkeys, the lack of a tumourigenic effect was difficult to interpret considering the limited duration of 
the study (105 weeks) in relation to the lifetime span of the species. 
In  Mouse  carcinogenicity  study,  50  ma1es  and  50  fema1es  per  group,  were  administered  efavirenz 
orally by gavage at 0, 25, 75, 150 and 300 mg/kg/day in 0.5% aqueous methylcellu1ose. The dosage of 
300  mg/kg/day  was  not  well  tolerated,  resu1ting  in  increased  mortality  in  ma1e  and  fema1e  mice. 
8/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
4. 
Capsules 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Results from local tolerance studies show that efavirenz is a mild skin and eye irritant. 
Environmental  risk  assessment  does  not  foresee  any  toxicological  risk  for  the  environment  with 
efavirenz. 
From the resultes of the carcinogenicity studies it was concluded that efavirenz is more toxic for females 
than  for  male  animals.  Efavirenz  showed  to  be  carcinogenic  for  female  mice,  in  which  an  increased 
incidence of hepatic and pulmonary tumors was observed. There was no threshold for the lung tumour 
effect  in  female  mice  while  hepatocellular  changes  in  female  mice  seemed  to  increase  dose-related. 
The  clinical  benefit  of  efavirenz  in  human  HIV-therapy  may  justify  in  continuing  its  use.  However, 
studies  with  efavirenz  must  be  continued  to  clarify  the  mechanism  of  carcinogenic  characteristics  of 
efavirenz in female mice. 
The clinical programme consisted of 26 pharmacokinetic studies including one in children, nine phase 
II/III clinical trials and 1 paediatric study to support the indication of efavirenz in adults and children. 
All the clinical trials have been performed according to GCP standards and agreed international ethical 
principles. The clinical programme intended to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of efavirenz 
both  in  monotherapy  and  in  combination  with  PIs,  mainly  indinavir  but  also  nelfinavir,  NRTIs 
predominantly zidovudine and lamivudine but also in some extent with stavudine and didanosine both in 
antiretroviral  therapy  naive  or  experienced  patient.  Patients  with  advanced  disease,  namely  with  CD4 
cell  counts  <  50  cells/mm3,  and  PI  or  NNRTIs  experienced  patients  have  not  been  included  in  the 
clinical programme. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The recommended dosage for children is derived from that already approved for the hard capsules and 
the approved indication is: “antiviral combination treatment of HIV-1 infected adults, adolescents and 
children 3 years of age and older, who are unable to swallow the hard capsules”. 
The  approved  indication  is  “Sustiva  is  indicated  in  antiviral  combination  treatment  of  HIV-1  infected 
adults,  adolescents  and  children  of  3  years  of  age  and  older”.  The  once-daily  administration  regimen 
may improve the adherence to treatment and add to long-term efficacy. 
Efavirenz is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor agent which acts through a non-competitive 
inhibition  of  HIV-1  reverse  transcriptase.  As  indicated  in  Part  III,  efavirenz  has  in  vitro  a  synergistic 
effect with ddI, ZDV and indinavir. 
The clinical development focused on the demonstration of the bioequivalence between the oral solution  
formulation and the previously authorised hard capsules. Three bioavailability studies in healthy adult 
volunteers and one open label paediatric study have been performed. 
The  clinical  development  focused  on  the  demonstration  of  the  bioequivalence  between  the  new 
formulation and the previously authorised hard capsules.  
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Film-coated tablets 
Oral solution 
Early clinical studies have demonstrated the potential for rapid development of clinical resistance when 
efavirenz  was  used  in  monotherapy.  Efavirenz  is  therefore  recommended  to  be  part  of  combination 
treatment regimens, some of which have been evaluated in terms of efficacy during clinical trials. 
The  nature  and  the  extent  of  resistance  to  efavirenz  observed  in  vitro  and  in  patients  from  clinical 
studies have been characterised in two early studies. 
9/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  single substitutions which lead to the  highest  resistance to efavirenz in  cell culture correspond to 
L100I    (17  to  22-fold  resistance)  and  K103N  (18  to  33-fold  resistance).  High  level  of  resistance  
(> 100-fold) required multiple passages and was associated with multiple mutations. 
Mutations associated with efavirenz resistance selected during in vitro passage correspond to a  lysine-
to-asparagine  substitution  at  position  103  (K103N),  a  leucine-to-isoleucine  change  at  position  100 
(L100I),  a  valine-to-aspartic  acid  substitution  at  position  179  (V179D)  and  a  tyrosine-to-cysteine 
substitution  at  position  181(Y181C).  These  mutations  have  also  been  detected  among  isolates  from 
patients during clinical studies where efavirenz was administered as part of combination regimens, on a 
single basis or in combination with other mutations in the RT gene. 
At the time of the CPMP opinion, the  genotypic resistance to efavirenz was evaluated taking samples 
from clinical studies DMP-003 and DMP-004 which are described in the clinical efficacy section of this 
document.  Study  003  enrolled  PI  and  NNRTI  naive  patients  who  received  efavirenz  +  indinavir  or 
indinavir.  Study  004  enrolled  zidovudine  +  lamivudine  experienced  patients  who  received  placebo  or 
efavirenz in combination with NRTIs. K103N was the most frequently observed RT substitution in viral 
isolates from patients who experienced a significant rebound in viral load during these clinical studies 
and was identified as single mutation and in combination with other mutations. Within 30 days of viral 
rebound  in  patients  on  efavirenz  containing  regimens,  90-95  %  showed  the  K103N  mutation.  
The proportion of samples showing multiple mutations, however, increased with time and at about day 
100,  two  mutations  were  observed  in  at  least  50  %  of  the  isolates.  Prolonged  therapy  with  efavirenz 
after  viral  rebound  was  associated  with  the  acquisition  of  additional  mutations.  Substitutions  at  RT 
positions 100, 101, 108, 138, 188, or 190 were also observed, but at lower frequencies, and often only in 
combination with K103N. The phenotypic resistance profile of isolates from studies 003 and 004 was 
also determined. The data corroborated the findings related to genotypic changes. Thus compared with 
baseline, isolates at viral  rebound showed reduced sensitivity to efavirenz  (IC90  increased  from  20 to  
> 300 fold). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Final  results  of  the  genotyping  analysis  were  later  submitted.  In  line  with  previously  presented  data, 
K103N  mutation  was  the  most  frequently  observed  in  patients  failing  efavirenz-including  treatment 
regimens,  appearing  in  over  90  %  of  the  patients  in  the  three  studies.  K103N  mutation  was  also 
identified  at  baseline  in  one  patient  from  study  003.  V108I  and  P225H  mutations  were  also  observed 
frequently,  but  predominantly  in  viral  genomes  which  also  contained  other  NNRTIs  resistance 
mutations.  V106A,  Y181C  or  Y188C  mutations,  which  have  been  associated  with  resistance  to  other 
NNRTIs were rare in the patient samples either before or after exposure to efavirenz. 
Viral isolates recovered from peripheral blood monocyte cells (PBMCs) of patients enrolled in efavirenz 
clinical studies who showed evidence of treatment failure were assessed for susceptibility to NNRTIs.  
Thirteen  isolates  previously  characterised  as  efavirenz-resistant  were  also  resistant  to  nevirapine  and 
delavirdine.  Five of these NNRTI-resistant isolates were found to have K103N or a valine-to-isoleucine 
substitution  at  position  108  (V108I)  in  RT.    Three  of  the  efavirenz  treatment  failure  isolates  tested 
remained sensitive to efavirenz in cell culture and were also sensitive to nevirapine and delavirdine. 
Cross  resistance  profile  for  efavirenz,  nevirapine  and  delavirdine  in  cell  culture  demonstrated  that  the 
three   
K103N  substitution  conferred 
delavirdine-resistant  clinical  isolates  examined  were  cross-resistant  to  efavirenz  and  contained  the 
K103N  substitution.  A  third  isolate  which  carried  a  substitution  at  position  236  of  RT  was  not  cross-
resistant to efavirenz. 
The  potential  for  cross  resistance  between  efavirenz  and  protease  inhibitors  is  low  because  of  the 
different  enzyme  targets  involved.  The  in  vitro  activity  of  efavirenz  was  not  affected  by  mutations 
associated with protease inhibitors resistance. 
Efavirenz  mutation  was  further  characterised  based  on  55  sequences,  representing  29  patients  failing 
efavirenz and nelfinavir combination therapy. The results suggested that nelfinavir therapy contributed 
in part to the evolution of resistance patterns leading to treatment failure. 
three  NNRTIs.  Two  of 
loss  of  susceptibility 
to  all 
The potential for cross-resistance between efavirenz and NRTIs is low because of the different binding 
sites on the target enzyme and the different mechanism of action. Published information supported this 
finding. Furthermore, some information obtained in vitro using PMBC-derived clinical isolates (studies 
DMP-003 and DMP-004) were provided. K103N mutant variant which is resistant to NNRTIs showed 
10/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Capsules 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption and distribution 
no  increased  resistance  to  ddC,  lamivudine  and  ZDV.  A  slight  increase  in  resistance  to  ddC  was 
observed  for  isolates  containing  viruses  with  several  mutations  of  unknown  linkage  in  the  RT  gene.   
For  a  single  isolate  with  a  virus  population  containing  K103N,  E138K,  and  Y188L  mutation  of 
unknown linkage, a larger increase in resistance to ddC was observed. 
No  chronopharmacokinetic  effect  was  reported  with  efavirenz  and  therefore  there  was  no  clinically 
significant  difference  as  to  whether  healthy  volunteers  received  multiple  doses  of  efavirenz 
(400 or 600 mg) either in the morning or in the evening. 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  efavirenz  was  determined  in  20  studies  performed  in  healthy 
volunteers,  5  in  HIV  infected  patients  and  one  in  paediatric  population.  Non-compartimental  analysis 
was undertaken in most cases. In addition three population analyses were provided in two reports one on 
the combined data from sixteen Phase I studies, one on the combined data from 5 Phase II studies, and 
one on the Phase II study in paediatric HIV infected patients. 
Efavirenz exhibited a linear pharmacokinetic behaviour, but for single doses up to 1600 mg there was a 
less  than  proportional  dose-related  increases  in  Cmax  and  AUC  which  could  suggest  a  decreased 
absorption.  After  single  or  multiple  doses  administration,  peak  efavirenz  plasma  concentrations  were 
achieved by 5 hours. Following multiple dosing, the steady state plasma concentrations were reached in 
7  days.  The  rate  of  absorption  was  not  rapid  based  on  the  Tmax  values.  The  low  water  solubility  of 
efavirenz probably led to a slow dissolution rate in the gastrointestinal tract and the relatively long time 
to peak concentrations might be a function of the dissolution rate. Other data using liquid-filled capsules 
in which efavirenz was in solution showed a similar time to Tmax suggesting that intrinsic properties of 
the substance are primarily controlling absorption rather than formulation factors. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Food effect on capsules: In healthy volunteers, meals of normal composition had no relevant effect on 
the bioavailability of efavirenz when administered at the dose of 100 mg twice a day for 10 days with 
meals. The rate and the extent of the absorption of efavirenz were however increased (> 50.0 %) when 
given with a high fat meal (4480 kilojoules, 69 % as fat), after a single dose of 1,200 mg. The current 
recommendation  to  administer  efavirenz  with  or  without  food  as  indicated  in  SPC,  was  however 
clarified during the  oral presentation  considering that there  was  no food  restriction during the  clinical 
trials,  and  that  the  flexibility  in  dosing  might  enhance  adherence.  Upon  the  request  of  the  CPMP,  the 
effect of food on the pharmacokinetic parameters have been further evaluated as part of the follow-up 
measures to be submitted after marketing authorisation. Further study strongly points to an increase in 
exposure  to  efavirenz  of  about  25  to  30%  (in  mean  values  of  Cmax  and  AUC)  when  administered 
concomitantly with meals, as compared to the fasted state. 
Food effect on oral solution: The results from a study performed in healthy volunteers to determine the 
effect of food on the bioavailability of efavirenz oral solution, shown that the geometric mean ratios for 
natural log transformed Cmax, AUCT, and AUC were 43 %, 25 %, and 30 % increased in the fed state 
as  compared  to  the  fasted  state,  with  90%  CI  for  all  three  parameters  above  the  upper  limit  of  125% 
respectively,  after  the  high-fat/high-calorie  meal  compared  to  the  fasted  state.  These  results  are 
consistent with previous findings in similar food interaction studies with the other oral formulations of 
efavirenz.  Also  consistent  with  findings  from  studies  with  other  formulations  is  the  increase  in  the 
frequency of commonly occurring adverse events, such as those usually referred to as NSS, in subjects 
dosed after a standard high fat meal. 
Overall, the results from this study confirmed that there is a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics 
of efavirenz when administered simultaneously with food, either with a high fat/high calorie meal or a 
normal fat/normal calorie meal as compared with administration in the fasted state.  
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  efavirenz  has  not  been  determined  due  to  the  lack  of  an  adequate 
intravenous formulation.  
11/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
Metabolism 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  efavirenz  in  HIV  infected  adult  patients  were  similar  to  those  observed  in 
healthy volunteers.  
Efavirenz  was  highly  protein  bound,  over  99  %,  mainly  to  human  serum  albumin.  In  HIV-1  infected 
patients  who  received  efavirenz  200  to  600  mg  once  daily  for  at  least  one  month,  CSF/plasma 
concentration  was  0.0069  (range  0.0026  –  0.0119)  at  different  collection  time-points.  This  proportion 
represented approximately 3-fold of the free fraction of efavirenz in plasma.  
Clearance of efavirenz following single oral dose was estimated to be 4.3 l/h in the population analysis 
consisting of healthy volunteers data and increased to 11 l/h after multiple dosing. The long elimination 
half-life  (t1/2)  that  was  observed  at  steady  state  in  healthy  volunteers  (40  to  55  hours)  supported  the 
recommended once daily administration. The elimination pathway for efavirenz was mainly through the 
faeces. The majority of the compound was recovered in faeces as the 8-hydroxy glucuronide. Less than 
1  %  of  an  oral  radiolabelled  of  400  mg  was  excreted  in  urine  as  unchanged  efavirenz  while 
approximately 14-34 % of the dose was recovered in the urine. 
As demonstrated during in vitro and in vivo studies, efavirenz was metabolised by the cytochrome P450, 
especially  CYP  2B6  and  to  a  lesser  extent  CYP3A4  to  oxydative  inactive  metabolites.  The  following 
metabolites  were  identified  in  humans:  8-hydroxy  efavirenz  glucuronide  cyclopropanol  (M1),  
7-hydroxy efavirenz sulfate (M7) and 8-hydroxy glucuronide (M14). Efavirenz was also shown in vitro 
to  induce  both  CYP2B6  and  CYP3A4  and  therefore  to  induce  its  own  metabolism.  The  AUCs  were 
approximately 8-10% lower following 20 days of dosing as compared to AUCs after 10 days of dosing. 
Efavirenz was also an inhibitor of CYP2C9, 2C19 and 3A4 and therefore pharmacokinetic interactions 
of clinical relevance could be expected. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Preliminary results from a study involving subjects with chronic liver disease (Child Pugh Grade A and 
B) showed a reduction in efavirenz Cmax and an increase in the unbound fraction compared to the control 
group.    Although  no  effects  on  the  AUCs  were  noted,  these  findings  suggested  some  alterations  in 
efavirenz  absorption,  distribution  and  elimination  in  subjects  with  liver  disease  compared  to  healthy 
subjects. Considering the extensive CYP 450-mediated metabolism of efavirenz and the limited clinical 
data, it is recommended that patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment should be cautioned and 
monitored as reflected in the SPC. However, efavirenz is contra-indicated in severely hepatic impaired 
patients (Child Pugh Grade C hepatic impairment).  
The  steady-state  pharmacokinetics  of  efavirenz  in  HIV-1  infected  patients  on  stable  antiretroviral 
regimens  containing  efavirenz,  and  having  selected  degrees  of  hepatic  impairment  or  normal  hepatic 
function, is ongoing. 
The pharmacokinetic profile in children aged 3 years and over was evaluated in study ACTG382 which 
is further presented in the clinical efficacy section of this document. In 48 paediatric patients receiving 
the equivalent of a 600 mg dose efavirenz, after adjustment of the dose for body size based on weight, 
the following parameters were defined at week 2 of treatment: 
The pharmacokinetic profile of efavirenz has not been established in patients with renal dysfunction and 
in the elderly. Appropriate recommendations have therefore been included in the SPC to reflect the lack 
of data. 
Steady  state  Cmax  equivalent  to  14.21  ±  5.79  µM;  steady  state  Cmin  equivalent  to  5.58  ±  4.12  µM  and 
AUC  was  218.3  ±  103.7  µM.h.  (following  600  mg  once  daily  dose  in  adults,  these  parameters 
correspond  to  12.9  µM,  5.6  µM  and  184  µM.h,  respectively).  The  pharmacokinetics  of  efavirenz 
therefore appeared similar in children to adults after correction for body size.  
Special populations 
The  population  analysis  showed  that  Black  race  resulted  in  changes  in  CL/F  that  were  not  clinically 
significant.  These  analyses  showed  that  the  Asian/Pacific  islanders  race  (3  subjects  involved  in  the 
population  analyses)  is  associated  with  a  reduction  of  CL/F  by  46  %  and  therefore  an  adequate 
statement  has  been  included  into  the  SPC  to  reflect  the  potential  higher  exposure  of  efavirenz  in  this 
12/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
group  of  patients.  In  addition,  the  gender  appeared  to  have  no  impact  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
efavirenz. 
↔ 
↔ 
Cmax 
Dose 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Patients  
Indinavir 
Ritonavir 
Nelfinavir 
Interactions 
Efavirenz  
dose 
Co-
administered 
substances 
Medicinal products indicated in the same indication 
800  mg  q8h  x  14 
days 
750 mg q8h x 7 days 
Effect               
on efavirenz 
pharmacokinetic
s 
Considering  that  HIV  infected  patients  are  frequently  subject  to  multiple  therapies,  that  efavirenz  has 
the  potential  to  induce  CYP  3A4  and  to  inhibit  some  CYP450  isoenzymes,  an  extensive  interactions 
programme  has  been  conducted.  The  main  findings  from  the  interaction  studies  are  displayed  in  the 
tables below: 
The  relationship  between  plasma  concentration  and  effect  was  based  on  data  obtained  from  clinical 
studies  DMP-003  and  DMP-004  in  which  HIV  infected  patients  received  efavirenz  alone  and  in 
combination  with  indinavir.  A  clear  concentration/effect  relationship  was  supported  so  that  patients 
reaching  Cmin  levels  of  greater  than  3.5  µM  had  a  higher  probability  of  treatment  success.  
The population analysis including data from 419 HIV infected patients estimated that CL/F was 10.3 l/h 
in the typical patient receiving a 600 mg dose and suggested a trend for heavier patients to have lower 
steady state trough levels. Weight and dose were included as covariants in the final models. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
500  mg  q12h  x  8 
days 
1200  mg  q8h  x  10 
days 
800  mg  q8h  x  14 
days 
500  mg  q12h  x  8 
days 
after morning dose 
after afternoon dose 
750 mg q8h x 7 days 
Results from study DMP 266-104, and population pharmacokinetic analysis on data from studies 266-
003,  -006,  -020  and  -021  have  shown  that,  in  healthy  volunteers,  efavirenz  induced  an  increased 
indinavir clearance with a reduction in indinavir Cmax and AUC by approximately 5-29 % and 33-46% 
respectively.  The Ctrough was decreased on an average by 39-57%.  Similar differences were observed 
indinavir  alone.  
in  HIV-infected  patients 
These observations support the existence of highly significant, efavirenz dose-independent, induction of 
indinavir  oral  clearance  by  concomitant  efavirenz  administration.    Also,  they  would  suggest  that  the 
daily  dose  of  indinavir  should  be  increased  when  administered  with  efavirenz.    In  clinical  trials  with 
efavirenz,  the  indinavir  dose  was  increased  to  1000  mg  every  8  hours  from  a  standard  regimen  of  
13/37
1200  mg  q8h  x  10 
days 
150  mg  q12h  x  14 
days 
300  mg  q12h  x  14 
days 
200 mg  
x 14 days 
600 mg  
x 7 days 
600 mg  
x 10 days 
600 mg  
x 10 days 
200 mg  
x 14 days 
600 mg  
x 10 days 
Effect of 
efavirenz on the 
pharmacokinetic
s of co-
administered 
substance  
AUC 
↔ 
↔ 
↑ 
(21%) 
↓(12%
) 
↓ 
(31%) 
↑(18%
) 
↔ 
↑(20%
) 
↓ 
(37%) 
↓ 
(62%) 
↔ 
↔ 
600 mg  
x 10 days 
600 mg  
x 14 days 
600 mg  
x 14 days 
Saquinavir 
soft capsules 
Indinavir 
Saquinavir 
soft capsules 
Lamivudine 
indinavir  with  efavirenz  compared 
Nelfinavir 
Metabolite 
AG-1402 
↓(45-
50%) 
↔ 
600 mg  
x 7 days 
↑ (24%) 
↔ 
↑ (21%) 
↓ (40%) 
Zidovudine 
Ritonavir  
receiving 
↓ (16%) 
↑ (14%) 
↓ (13%) 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Patients 
Patients 
Patients 
↔ 
to 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When used in  combination  with  efavirenz  and two  NRTIs, 533/133 mg lopinavir/ritonavir twice  daily 
shown  similar  lopinavir  plasma  concentrations  as  compared  to  lopinavir/ritonavir  400/100 mg  twice 
daily without efavirenz. Appropriate recommendations have been included in the SPC.  
Although efavirenz decreases the Cmax, AUC and Cmin of amprenavir by approximately 40% in adults, 
when  amprenavir  is  combined  with  ritonavir,  the  effect  of  efavirenz  is  compensated  by  the 
pharmacokinetic booster effect of ritonavir.  
Appropriate  dosage  adjustments  have  been  included  in  the  SPC.  Recommendations  when  efavirenz  is 
given  in  combination  with  amprenavir  and  nelfinavir,  are  also  provided.Treatment  with  efavirenz  in 
combination with amprenavir and saquinavir is not recommended.  
800  mg  every 8 hours. However, a concern  was  raised  by  the  CPMP on the  suggested  indinavir dose 
adjustment  recommendation  in  the  light  of  high  inter-individual  variability.  In  addition,  post  hoc 
subgroup  analysis  in  study  –006,  suggests  that  the  indinavir  +  efavirenz  combination  in  naïve  
(or  not  heavily  pre-treated)  patients  with  high  viral  load  or  low  CD4+  count  at  baseline  may  be  less 
effective than typical first-line HAART (indinavir + zidovudine + lamuvidine).  Hence, it is considered 
that although the clinical significance of decreased indinavir concentrations has not been established, the 
magnitude  of  the  observed  pharmacokinetic  interaction  should  be  taken  into  consideration  when 
choosing  a  regimen  containing  both  efavirenz  and  indinavir.    In  line  with  best  practice  principles, 
aiming  to  guarantee  long-term  effectiveness  of  anti-HIV  treatment,  it  is  questionable  if  regimens 
containing both efavirenz and indinavir fulfil this objective, if used as initial treatment for HIV-infected 
patients. These observations are reflected in the relevant section of the SPC.  Efavirenz had a significant 
effect on saquinavir soft capsules pharmacokinetics whereas saquinavir had a small effect on efavirenz 
pharmacokinetics, as indicated in the table. Although the combination was generally well tolerated, the 
co-administration  of  efavirenz  with  saquinavir  soft  capsules,  as  the  sole  protease  inhibitor  is  not 
recommended.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Since  the  combination  of  nelfinavir  with  efavirenz  was  well  tolerated,  no  dosage  adjustment  is 
recommended when both substances are co-administered. In contrast, although efavirenz and ritonavir 
caused  seemingly  clinically  insignificant  changes  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  either  products,  the 
combination  was  not  well  tolerated  and  was  associated  with  a  higher  frequency  of  adverse  events  
(e.g.  dizziness,  nausea,  paraesthesia,  elevated  liver  enzymes).  A  clinical  study  aiming  to  evaluate  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  the  combination  is  ongoing  as  presented  in  the  clinical  efficacy  section  of  this 
document.  Considering  the  different  metabolism  pathway,  no  clinically  significant  interactions  were 
expected  when  efavirenz  was  co-administered  with  NRTIs.  No  formal  interaction  study  has  been 
conducted between ddI and efavirenz. In addition, experience of combined treatment with ddI is limited 
and this is therefore reflected in the SPC.  
The potential interactions between efavirenz and other NNRTIs have not been evaluated. 
14/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicinal products 
↔  
↔  
↔  
↔  
↔  
↔  
↔  
↔  
↔  
↔  
↔  
single 
single 
AUC 
Cmax 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
↓ (20%) 
↑ (22%) 
↑ (11%) 
↑ (16%) 
↓ (26%) 
Famotidine 
Mylanta DS 
Fluconazole 
Azithromycin 
Azithromycin 
Clarithromycin 
600 mg x 7 days 
50 µg single dose 
30 ml single dose 
40 mg single dose 
Population  Dose 
Ethinyl oestradiol  Healthy 
Effect on efavirenz 
pharmacokinetics 
Co-administered 
substance 
Rifampicin 
Clarithromycin 
14-OH metabolite 
Fluconazole 
600  mg 
dose 
500 mg q 12 h x 7 
days 
200 mg x 7 days 
Effect of efavirenz 
on the pharmaco- 
kinetics of  
co-administered 
substance  
600  mg 
dose 
500 mg q 12 h x 7 
days 
200 mg x 7 days 
Efavirenz  
dose 
600 mg  
x 7 days 
400 mg  
x 7 days 
400 mg  
x 7 days 
400 mg  
x 7 days 
400 mg  
single dose 
400 mg  
single dose 
400 mg  
x 10 days 
400 mg  
x 7 days 
400 mg  
x 7 days 
400 mg  
x 7 days 
400 mg  
x 10 days 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Based  on  these  results,  with  the  exception  of  rifampicin,  there  are  no  clinically  relevant  changes  in 
efavirenz pharmacokinetics by any of the studied substances, further confirming the major involvement 
of  CYP2B6  and  the  minor  involvement  of  CYP3A4  in  the  elimination  of  efavirenz.  The  reduction  in 
efavirenz AUC, Cmax and Cmin by rifampicin is likely to be relevant as it may increase the possibility of 
viral  resistance  development.  As  a  result,  an  increase  of  the  dose  of  efavirenz  to  800  mg  is 
recommended  when  co-administered  with  rifampicin.  Efavirenz  induced  the  CYP3A4  mediated 
metabolism  of  clarithromycin  to  its  active  metabolite.  The  increase  in  ethinyl  oestradiol  levels  was 
suggested  to  be  related  to  an  inhibition  of  CYP3A4  although  other  mechanisms  might  be  involved.  
The relevant information has been appropriately reflected in the SPC. 
Potential  interactions  with  efavirenz  have  been  further  evaluated  during  the  post  authorisation  phase. 
Efavirenz  appeared  to  reduce  rifabutin  Cmax    (approximately  30  –  40  %),  AUC  (approximately  40  –  
50 %) and to increase clearance (approximately 70 – 100 %). These data suggest that the daily dose of 
rifabutin should be increased by 50 % when administered with efavirenz and that the rifabutin dose may 
be  doubled  for  regimens  in  which  rifabutin  is  given  two  or  three  times  a  week  in  combination  with 
efavirenz.  Although  relevant  information  has  been  included  in  the  product  information,  the  CPMP 
considered however that this interaction needs to be further discussed.  
Convulsions  have  been  observed  rarely  in  patients  receiving  efavirenz,  generally  in  the  presence  of 
known medical history of seizures. Patients who are receiving concomitant anticonvulsant medications 
primarily  metabolised  by  the  liver,  such  as  phenytoin  and  phenobarbital,  may  require  periodic 
monitoring of plasma levels. Based on this finding a precautionary statement have been included in the 
product  information  for  patients  on  therapy  with  anticonvulsant  medications  and  for  patients  with  a 
history of seizures.  
Ethinyl oestradiol  Healthy 
↓ (39%) 
↑ (34%) 
↔  
↓ (26%) 
↑ (49%) 
↔  
50 µg single dose 
↑ (37%) 
↔  
With  regard  to  antidepressant  drugs,  the  lack  of  clinically  significant  pharmacokinetic  interaction 
between  efavirenz  and  paroxetine  or  fluoxetine,  as  well  as  the  inductor  effect  of  efavirenz  on  the 
metabolism of sertraline, have been highlighted in the the product information. 
15/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design 
DMP 266-037 
Oral solution 
The absence of clinically significant effects on pharmacokinetic parameters when efavirenz and the H1-
antihistamine,  cetirizine,  are  co-administered  has  been  also  included  in  the  SPC,  as  well  as 
recommandation related to co-administration with lorazepam. 
During  the  development  of  the  oral  solution  of  efavirenz,  four  different  liquid  formulations  were 
successively  tested  in  terms  of  comparative  bioavailability  to  the  commercially  available  capsule 
formulation in three single-dose studies in healthy adult volunteers. The overview of the clinical studies 
is presented in the table below: 
Further to the publication, during the post-marketing phase, of results from a clinical study in healthy 
volunteers  showing  a  significant  reduction  of  indinavir  plasma  concentrations  when  co-administered 
with  St  John’s  wort  (Hypericum  perforatum),  the  CPMP  considered  that  this  interaction  was  also 
applicable  to  other  protease  inhibitors  and  non  nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  considering 
the  same  metabolism  pathway  of  these  substances  as  indinavir.  The  interaction  seems  to  involve  two 
different mechanisms: an induction of the metabolism by the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 3A4 and the 
P-glycoprotein  transporter.  Since  it  may  result  in  the  loss  of  therapeutic  effect  and  development  of 
resistance, it was agreed to contraindicate the use of St John’s wort in patients taking protease inhibitors 
and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. 
 Medicinal product no longer authorised
This was a single dose bioavailability study comparing two different liquid formulations (A and B) of 
efavirenz  to  the  200  mg  hard  capsule.  The  two  liquid  formulations  were  compared  in  a  crossover 
manner  within  each  of  4  groups  with  7  subjects  each  in  the  fasted  and  in  the  fed  state.    Results  are 
summarised in the table below: 
 It  was  concluded  that  the  intended  for  market  oral  solution  is  bioequivalent  to  the  200  mg  reference 
capsule for AUC but not  for Cmax when administered at  the  240  mg  dose level tested in healthy adult 
subjects in the fasted state.   
Study DMP 266-037 (Phase I, Single Dose Crossover Pilot Bioavailability Study comparing Two Liquid 
Formulations of DMP-266 to the Commercial Capsule Formulation) 
Cohort II: 
Oral solution C 
+ nelfinavir 
(stratum 1:3mo.< 2ye. 
stratum 2:2ye.-8ye.) 
Paediatric patients 
Cohort II: 19 children 
Cohort I: 
Hard capsule 200mg 
+ nelfinavir 
Oral solution C   
(2 dosages 200mg- 
240mg)  
Hard capsule 200mg 
Oral solution D 
(2 dosages 200mg-240mg) 
Hard capsule 200mg 
Test products  Oral solution A 
Oral solution B 
single dose 
3-period cross-over  
single dose  
3 period cross-over 
single dose  
2 period cross-over 
Non-fasting 
Fasting 
Phase I/II 
open label 
33 males and females 
32 males and females 
24 male and females 
DMP 266-045 
DMP 266-101 
ACTG 382 
Conditions 
Patients 
Fasting 
Fasting 
16/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M
e
dicin
No. 
 subjects 
Single Dose Crossover Pilot Bioavailability Study comparing Two Liquid Formulations of DMP-266 to the Commercial Capsule Formulation (DMP266-037) 
Treatment 
 Liquid A  fasted 
Group 1 
Capsule fasted 
Group 1 
Liquid A fed 
Group 3 
Capsule fed 
Group 3 
Liquid B fasted 
Group 2 
Capsule fasted 
Group 2 
Liquid  fed 
Group 4 
Capsule fed 
Group 4 
Liquid A  
Vs 
Capsule 
Liquid B 
Vs 
Capsule 
(*)       Median and range 
(**)     Mean and RSD% 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
r
al 
Pharmacokinetic parameters (RSD%) 
tmax* 
(h) 
5.0 
(4.0-5.0) 
3.0 
(1.0-5.0) 
3.0 
(1.0-5.0) 
4.0 
(3.0-5.0) 
5.0 
(4.0-5.0) 
2.0 
(2.0-4.0) 
4.0 
(1.0-12.0) 
4.0 
(3.0-12.0) 
AUCT** 
Cmax** 
(µM.h) 
 (µM) 
107.4 
3.25  
(20.9) 
 (49.1) 
p
3.06 (33.0)  114.8 
 (41.2) 
o
3.12 (27.1)  152.6 
 (23.1) 
d
157.7 
(23.3) 
95.9 
(37.5) 
115.7  
(32.3) 
134.4  
(34.4) 
139.4  
(39.2) 
AUC** 
(µM.h) 
140.6  
(33.4) 
146.8 
 (29.0) 
203.0  
(26.1) 
212.3 
u
(21.3) 
c
124.5 
(33.3) 
147.9  
(29.3) 
163.3  
(34.5) 
164.0  
(33.8) 
4.24 
(21.4) 
1.92 
(34.4) 
3.03 
(18.8) 
3.54 
(32.5) 
3.62 
(29.6) 
t1/2** 
(h) 
95.7 
(45.8) 
95.1 
(41.9) 
100.9 
(40.2) 
110.6 
(29.5) 
84.1 
(51.5) 
88.7  
n
(42.5) 
65.1 
o
 (40.2) 
62.7 
(53.9) 
t 
Point Estimator (90% C.I.) 
tmax 
(h) 
--- 
Cmax  
(µM) 
--- 
--- 
AUC (µM.h) 
AUCT 
 (µM.h) 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
1.12 
(0.734-1.72) 
--- 
0.905 
(0.770-1.06) 
--- 
0.945 
(0.844-1.06) 
--- 
0.752 
(0.667-0.847) 
--- 
0.969 
(0.904-1.04) 
--- 
0.952 
(0.831-1.09) 
--- 
0.584 
(0.420-0.812) 
--- 
0.799 
(0.682-0.936) 
--- 
0.819 
(0.725-0.925) 
--- 
0.968 
(0.729-1.29) 
0.984 
(0.870-1.119 
0.999 
(0.961-1.04) 
t1/2 
(h) 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
 lo
n
g
e
r 
a
u
t
h
o
ris
e
d
18/37
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  DMP  266-045 (Phase  I, Single  Dose, Three  Period Crossover Study  in Healthy Volunteers to  Compare the  Bioavailability of  Efavirenz Administered  as  a 
Liquid Formulation to the Commercial Capsule) 
This was a single dose bioavailability study comparing two doses of the improved liquid formulation of efavirenz to the 200 mg market capsule. The two doses (200 and 240 mg) of 
the liquid formulation and the commercial capsule were compared in a crossover in 29 evaluable subjects in the fasted state.  The results are summarised in the table below: 
A Phase I, Single Dose, Three Period Crossover Study in Healthy Volunteers to Compare the Bioavailability of Efavirenz Administered as a Liquid Formulation to the Commercial Capsule (DMP266-
045) 
M
e
dicin
al 
Treatment 
Comparisons 
No. 
 subjects 
 Liquid formulation 
200 mg 
 Liquid formulation 
240 mg 
Capsule formulation 
Liquid 200 vs 
Capsule 
Liquid 240 vs 
Capsule 
29 
“ 
“ 
“ 
“ 
(*)       Median and range 
(**)     Mean and RSD% 
r
p
Pharmacokinetic parameters (RSD%) 
o
tmax* 
Cmax** 
d
 (µM) 
(h) 
5.0 
1.89  
(3.0-24.0) 
(46.6) 
5.0 
2.23 
(4.0-8.0) 
(44.8) 
3.0 
3.68 
(1.0-8.0) 
(28.5) 
AUCT** 
 (µM.h) 
u
83.6 
c
 (41.5) 
100.7 
 (41.2) 
103.9 
 (39.8) 
t 
AUC**  
(µM.h) 
119  
(45.4) 
138.4 
 (41.9) 
n
140.3  
(47.8) 
t1/2** 
(h) 
99.7 
(37.1) 
99.7 
(37.0) 
99.6 
(31.4) 
o
Point Estimator (90% C.I.) 
Cmax  
(µM) 
--- 
AUC  
(µM.h) 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
AUCT 
 (µM.h) 
--- 
--- 
--- 
C24 
(µM)  
--- 
--- 
--- 
C24 
(µM)  
0.74 
(37.8) 
0.86 
(41.9) 
0.74 
(31.1) 
 lo
0.488 
(0.423-0.563) 
0.571 
(0.495-0.658) 
0.787 
(0.721-0.859) 
0.925 
(0.848-1.01) 
0.843 
(0.781-0.909) 
0.965 
(0.894-1.04) 
0.950 
(0.850-1.06) 
1.07 
(0.958-1.20) 
n
g
e
r 
a
u
t
h
o
ris
e
d
19/37
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M
e
dicin
Study DMP 266-101 (Phase I, Single Dose, Three Period Crossover Study in Healthy Volunteers to Compare the Bioavailability of Efavirenz Administered as an 
Oral Solution to the Commercial Capsule) 
This was a single dose bioavailability study comparing two doses of the intended for marketing oral solution of efavirenz to the 200 mg market capsule (reference). The two doses 
(200 and 240 mg) of the oral solution and the commercial capsule were compared in a crossover in 23 evaluable subjects in the fasted state.  The results are summarised in the table 
below: 
A Phase I, Single Dose, Three Period Crossover Study in Healthy Volunteers to Compare the Bioavailability of Efavirenz Administered as an Oral Solution to the Commercial Capsule 
(DMP266-101) 
No. 
 subjects 
Treatment 
Comparisons 
 Oral solution  
200 mg 
 Oral solution  
240 mg 
Capsule  
200 mg 
Liquid 200 vs 
Capsule 
Liquid 240 vs 
Capsule 
23 
“ 
“ 
“ 
“ 
(*)       Median and range 
(**)     Mean and RSD% 
al 
r
p
Pharmacokinetic parameters (RSD%) 
tmax* 
d
(h) 
5.0 
(3.0-12.0) 
5.0 
(3.0-12.0) 
3.0 
(2.0-5.0) 
o
AUCT** 
 (µM.h) 
102.5 
 (29.2) 
116.8 
 (34.4) 
118.0 
 (23.6) 
Cmax** 
 (µM) 
2.35  
(26.8) 
2.63 
(30.0) 
3.24 
(20.2) 
AUC**  
(µM.h) 
u
131.5  
c
(30.3) 
148.2 
 (35.7) 
150.0  
(28.2) 
t1/2** 
(h) 
85.6 
(37.6) 
84.8 
(37.0) 
n
88.1 
(41.0) 
t 
--- 
Point Estimator (90% C.I.) 
Cmax  
(µM) 
--- 
AUC  
(µM.h) 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
o
0.724 
(0.665-0.789) 
0.785 
(0.721-0.855) 
 lo
0.892 
(0.850-0.937) 
0.979 
(0.920-1.04) 
n
g
e
AUCT 
 (µM.h) 
--- 
--- 
--- 
0.884 
(0.831-0.941) 
0.972 
(0.926-1.02) 
r 
a
u
t
h
o
ris
e
d
20/37
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ACTG 382 
With reference to the cohort II paediatric population from study ACTG 382, the results for the mean 
(SD) values for Cmax, Cmin and AUC at Week 2, and, after appropriate dose adjustments (in order to 
obtain a previously established target AUC similar to the median AUC in adults), at weeks 6 and 10, 
were as shown in the following table: 
This  initial  version  of  the  protocol  was  amended  in  order  to  include  a  second  cohort  (Cohort  II)  of  
32  children  to  evaluate  a  potential  efavirenz  suspension  (liquid  formulation  C)  in  combination  with 
nelfinavir. Patients in this second cohort, further stratified into Stratum 1 (≥3 months to <2 years) and 
Stratum  2  (≥2  years  to  8  years),  were  to  be  dosed  with  720  mg  adjusted  for  size,  considering  the 
diminished bioavalability of the suspension relative to the capsules. The  dose for nelfinavir for both 
cohorts was of 20-30 mg/kg tid in patients weighing ≤30 kg and 750 mg tid in patients over 30 kg in 
weight. The individual doses were adjusted according to changes in body size over time.  
The  study  was  initially  designed  as  an  open-label,  AUC-controlled,  multicenter  (26  sites)  study  to 
determine  the  pharmacokinetics,  safety,  tolerability  and  antiviral  activity  of  once  daily  efavirenz 
capsules in combination with nelfinavir in HIV-infected children with a confirmed diagnosis either by 
virus  culture  or  by  PCR  in  at  least  two  occasions  and  with  plasma  levels  of  above  the  limit  of 
quantification  of  400  copies/ml  at  screening.  The  60  children  initially  planned  in  this  first  design 
(Cohort I) should be ≤ 16 years of age and the initial starting dose of 600 mg, adjusted to body size, 
was to be further adjusted at week 4 in accordance with the individual tolerability and with the AUCτ 
levels  measured  at  week  2  in  order  to  attain  the  target  AUCτ  levels  of  190  to  360  µM.h.  
The pharmacokinetic parameters were then reassessed at week 6. The initial doses for these patients 
were calculated based on the “surface rule”: Dose = [wt (kg)/70] 0.7 x 600 mg.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
No statistically significant differences were observed for the pooled data for all ages in terms of CLo 
[mean (SD) 8.04 (3.29) L/h/m2]. However, when data were stratified in terms of age groups (<5 years 
and 5 to 8 years), statistically significant differences arose in terms of the mean values for Cmax, AUC 
and Clo, as shown in the table below, with a greater clearance and lower values for Cmax and AUC in 
the lower age group.  It is suggested that the lack of compliance with the recommended dose may be 
one  of  the  most  relevant  explanations  to  account  for  the  observed  variation  in  AUC.  This  deficient 
compliance may result either from missing doses, a fact that must be carefully considered when a once 
daily dose is recommended, or from difficulties with dosing accuracy with the current formulation, for 
which a difference of 1 ml may represent more than 10% of the total daily dose.   
Liquid formulation  
Week 
(N=17) 
11.8±5.4 
5.2±4.2 
188±104 
Week 6 
(N=6) 
14.1±13.9 
8.7±10.3 
261±272 
HIV-Infected 
Adults 
Capsule 
(N=35) 
Week 10 
(N=6) 
12.9±4.8 
4.8±3.8 
204±92 
Cmax, µM 
Cmin, µM 
AUC, µM.*h 
Pharmacokinetic  
Parameter  
14.1±5.8 
5.6±4.1 
216±102 
12.9±3.7 
5.6±3.2 
184±73 
HIV-Infected Children 
Capsule 
(N=49) 
2 
21/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Body weight (kg) 
Film-coated tablets 
13 to <15 
15 to < 20 
20 to < 25 
25 to < 32.5 
32.5 to < 40 
≥ 40 
Three bioavailability studies in healthy adult volunteers have been submitted.  
Age ≥ 5 years 
9 
10 
12 
15 
17 
24 
This nomogram must be interpreted as such that children starting treatment at ages lower than 3 years 
will  maintain  their  higher  per  body  weight  dosage  after  reaching  the  age  of  5  until  the  next  body 
weight level is attained.  
In trying to overcome the mean 20% lower exposure for the oral solution found in children aged less 
than  5  years  as  compared  with  older  children,  the  applicant  proposed  a  revised  dosing  nomogram 
taking into account both body weight, as previously, and age, for which a further 25 to 33% increase 
in dose is proposed for children below 5 years, as follows: 
In general, all three studies were single-dose studies, with single-centre, open-label, non-randomized, 
crossover designs and adequate wash-out periods (28 days) accounting for the long elimination half-
life of efavirenz (52 to 76 hours), except for the pilot study DMP 266-054, in which a 14-day wash-out 
period was used.  
Efavirenz oral solution (30 mg/mL) dose in mL 
Age 3 to < 5 years 
12 
13 
15 
17 
- 
- 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
All  studies  were  conducted  according  to  Good  Clinical  Practice,  and  the  eventual  enrolment 
deviations, which are most pronounced in study DMP 266-108, are not expected to significantly affect 
the result values for the main pharmacokinetic parameters. 
22/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
& 
28 
An  overview  of  the  main  features  of  the  three  clinical  studies  is  shown  in  the  table  below,  with 
reference to the main results of each study. 
12/2 
23/6 
single 
Results 
18 – 46 
19 – 46 
Study # 
Age 
range 
Formulations 
Duration 
design 
N 
Sex 
(M/F) 
PK 
evalu
able 
12 
Bioequivalence 
demonstrated 
Bioequivalence  not 
demonstrated 
Overview of the three clinical studies 
2  x  300  mg 
tablets 
(FN:  0266A-
0300A-F-3  x 
200 
mg 
capsules  
DMP 266-058 
(Krishna 
Talluri, 
MD) 
12-Jun-1999 
to 
28-Aug-1999 
DMP 266-054 
(James D. 
Carlson, 
Pharm D) 
16-Jan-1999 
to 
13-Feb-1999 
2  x  300  mg 
tablets 
(FN:  0266A-
0300A-F-B) 
1  x  600  mg 
tablets 
(FN:  0266A-
0600A-E-B) 
3  x  200  mg 
capsules  
30 days 
(two 
single 
doses each with 
a 
14-day 
pharmacokinetic 
sample 
collection 
period) 
77 days 
(three 
doses with a 
21-day 
pharmacokinetic 
sample 
collection period 
after  each  dose 
and a 28-day 
washout 
between doses) 
77 days 
(three 
doses with a 
21-day 
pharmacokinetic 
sample 
collection period 
after  each  dose 
and a 28-day 
washout 
between doses) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Study  DMP  266-058  evaluated  the  300  mg  tablet  formulation  0266A-0300A-F-B  and  the  600  mg 
tablet formulation 0266A-0600A-E-B against the commercial 200 mg hard capsules. Bioequivalence 
was demonstrated for AUC and AUCT according to established CPMP standards, but not for Cmax, 
for either test formulations. In general, both test formulations showed greater bioavailability than the 
commercial 200 mg capsules. 
Study DMP 266-054 was a pilot study, and the results were concordant with the hypothesis that the 
bioavailability  of  the  300  mg  tablet  test  formulation  (0266A-0300A-F-3)  was  similar  to  the 
commercial hard capsule.  
2  x  300  mg 
tablets 
(FN:  0266A-
0300A-N-A) 
1  x  600  mg 
tablets 
(FN:  0266A-
0600A-F-A) 
3  x  200  mg 
capsules  
DMP 266-108 
(James D. 
Carlson, 
Pharm D) 
17-Jun-2000 
to 
15-Sep-2000 
A new formulation was developed by reducing croscarmellose sodium from 5% to 4% w/w, in order  
to  reduce  the  Cmax.  Bioequivalence  study  DMP  266-108  was  conducted  using  this  modified 
formulation  for  300  mg  (0266A-0300A-N-A)  and  600  mg  (0266A-0600A-F-A)  tablets  compared  to 
the 200 mg commercial formulation). Bioequivalence was demonstrated for AUC, AUCT and Cmax, 
according to CPMP’s standards.  Detailed discussion of the study DMP 266-108 is shown below: 
Note: 200 mg reference capsules always with used the commercial formulation.  
Bioequivalence 
demonstrated 
18 - 45 
single 
24/3 
21 
23/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PK Parameter 
Descriptive PK results for study DMP-266-108 
Study  DMP-266-108:  A  Phase  I,  Open-Label,  Single-Dose,  Three-Period  Crossover  Bioavailability 
Study  in  Healthy  Volunteers  Comparing  300  mg  (Formulation  0266A-0300A-N-A)  and  600  mg 
(Formulation 0266A-0600A-F-A) Efavirenz Tablets to Efavirenz Capsules. 
A  new  bioequivalence/bioavailability  study  was  conducted  in  which  tablets  made  by  this  modified 
process were compared to the capsule formulation that is currently being manufactured. This current 
study  evaluated  both,  a  300  mg  (Formulation  0266A-0300A-N-A)  tablet  strength  and  a  600  mg 
(Formulation 0266A-0600A-F-A) tablet strength and compared them to the 200 mg capsule.  
As  far  as  PK  results  for  the  main  variables  are  concerned,  no  carryover  or  period  effects  were 
observed. Descriptive statistics [mean (SD] for most parameters, except median (range) for Tmax and 
harmonic  mean  (pseudo-SD)  for  t1/2]  for  subjects  administered  efavirenz  capsule  and  tablet 
formulations were as presented in the table below: 
The study’s design, including the statistical analysis plan, was similar to the one used for study DMP-
266-058. As for this later study, a total of 30 healthy subjects were planned for enrolment, however 
only 27 subjects were enroled at dosing and only 21 subjects were finally evaluable for PK analysis, as 
one subject failed to return to study premises, three subjects withdrew consent and two discontinued 
because of AEs (one for vomiting and one for acute mononucleosis and secondary lymphadenitis). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  result  values  for  either  of  the 
formulations.  The  statistical  tests  were  conducted  on  the  natural  log-transformed  data  for  Cmax, 
AUCT,  and  AUC  and  observed  (non-transformed  data)  for  Clo.  For  Tmax,  the  test  was  conducted 
using  non-parametric  methods.  As  shown  in  the  table  below  for  the  300  mg  tablet  formulation,  the 
geometric mean ratios for Cmax, AUCT, and AUC were 3.5%, 2.4%, and 1.8% higher, respectively, 
compared with the capsule formulation. For the 600 mg tablet formulation, the geometric mean ratios 
for  Cmax,  AUCT,  and  AUC  were  10.1%,  1.9%,  and  3.0%,  higher,  respectively,  compared  with  the 
capsule formulation. The 90% CIs for Cmax, AUCT, and AUC were within 80-125% for both tablet 
strengths. 
Capsule 
3x200 mg 
N=21 
7.50 (2.81) 
4.00 (2.0 – 5.0) 
326.97 (112.47) 
359.01 (118.56) 
75.81 (29.56) 
5.88 (2.07) 
600 mg Tablet 
1x600mg (Test) 
N=21 
8.06 (1.95) 
4.00 (2.0 – 8.0)  
338.77 (111.37) 
373.24 (121.73) 
78.21 (27.74)  
5.59 (1.74)  
300 mg Tablet 
2x300mg (Test) 
N=21 
7.62 (2.26)  
3.00 (2.0 – 5.0)  
332.57 (116.92) 
363.28 (124.75) 
76.03 (28.46)  
5.78 (1.80)  
Cmax, µM 
Tmax, h 
AUCT, µM*h 
AUC, µM*h 
T1/2, h 
Clo, L/h 
24/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of natural log-transformed PK results for study DMP-266-108 
90%  CI  (% 
of  reference 
mean) 
N 
300  
300  
300  
600  
600  
600  
7.90 
AUC 
5.720 
0.034 
5.743 
0.024 
0.096 
5.819 
0.019 
0.029 
5.739 
5.720 
1.954 
5.848 
0.017 
2.050 
5.836 
5.819 
Cmax 
AUCT 
102.38 
103.48 
328.37 
110.07 
101.94 
102.98 
101.76 
362.16 
325.35 
358.42 
21  7.49 
21  7.49 
Parameter 
Table
t 
21  321.10 
21  352.95 
21  321.10 
21  352.95 
Difference  GMR (% 
of  reference 
mean) 
Tablet 
(least-
square 
mean) 
7.61 
Tablet 
(least-
square 
mean) 
1.989 
Observed data 
Capsule 
(least-square 
mean) 
92.73, 
115.46 
98.65, 
122.82 
96.02, 
109.16 
95.61, 
108.69 
95.95, 
107.92 
97.11, 
109.22 
Loge-transformed data 
Capsule 
(least-
square 
mean) 
1.954 
The reference (Ref ) and test means are least square estimated  means (LS Mean) from the ANOVA 
model. The ratios are the geometric mean ratios (GMRs) for the natural log –transformed values. 
The study’s safety evaluation shows that, overall, 22 (81.5%) of the 27 subjects reported at least one 
new-onset adverse events (AE). The AEs most frequently reported in greater than 10% of the subjects 
included  dizziness  (13,  48.1%);  headache  (9,  33.3%);  nausea  (7,  25.9%);  impaired  concentration  
(4, 14.8%); and flu-like symptoms, vomiting, and euphoria (each 3, 11.1%).  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
This  incidence  is  generally  similar  to  the  incidences  found  in  similar  studies  and  there  were  no 
apparent differences in the observed incidence of AEs among the three formulations: AEs reported in 
greater  than  10%  of  the  subjects  after  receiving  the  300  mg  tablet  formulation  included  dizziness  
(7, 29.2%), headache (6, 25.0%), and nausea (3, 12.5%); after receiving the 600 mg tablet formulation, 
the  AEs  reported  in  greater  than  10%  of  the  subjects  included  dizziness  (8,  33.3%)  and  headache  
(3,  12.5%);  after  receiving  the  capsule  formulation,  the  AEs  reported  in  greater  than  10%  of  the 
subjects included dizziness (7, 29.2%) and headache and nausea (each 3, 12.5%).  
Seven (25.9%) subjects reported at least one AE of moderate intensity. The moderate AEs included a 
cut on the third digit of the right hand, acute mononucleosis, lymphadenopathy, finger pain, influenza-
like symptoms, headache, myalgia, cystitis, and back pain. Two incidence of headache reported by one 
subject were considered probably related to study medication; all other moderate AEs were considered 
unrelated to study medication.  
Six subjects discontinued from the study prematurely: three subjects withdrew consent, two subjects 
discontinued  because  of  AEs  (one  for  vomiting  and  one  for  acute  mononucleosis  and  secondary 
lymphadenitis),  and  one  failed  to  return  to  the  clinical  study  unit.  No  deaths  or  severe  AEs  were 
reported. 
As  far  as  AEs  of  particular  interest  in  subjects  receiving  efavirenz  (rash  and  nervous  system 
symptoms) are concerned, one subject had a rash on Day 8 of Period 2. The rash was of mild intensity 
and  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  unlikely  related  to  study  medication.  Seventeen  (63.0%)  of 
the  27  subjects  reported  a  total  of  34  nervous  system  symptoms.  Six  subjects  reported  a  single 
occurrence  of  a  nervous  system  symptom  and  11  subjects  reported  more  than  one  occurrence. 
Dizziness,  the  most  frequently  reported  AE,  occurred  in  29.2%  to  33.3%  of  subjects  receiving  each 
formulation. Other nervous system symptoms reported by 10% or more of the subjects after receiving 
(11.1%).  
one  of 
No clinical laboratory test results were reported as AEs by the investigator.  
formulations  were  concentration 
(14.8%)  and  euphoria 
impaired 
the 
25/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All 34 occurrences of nervous system symptoms were of mild intensity. Except for one occurrence of 
dizziness, all nervous system symptoms were considered to be treatment-related. 
Clinical  efficacy 
Dose finding studies 
Final  study  reports  have  been  later  submitted  as  part  of  the  commitments  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
The main objective of the dose selection of efavirenz was to obtain maximum virus suppression and to 
use  the  maximal  dose  tolerated.  Initially,  the  dose  of  200  mg  was  selected  based  on  preclinical  and 
clinical  pharmacokinetics  data  obtained  from  the  early  studies.  Considering  the  long  t1/2  of  
40-55  hours,  once  daily  dosing  regimen  was  possible.  Since  efavirenz  administered  at  the  dose  of 
200 mg showed a good tolerability, higher doses were tested.  
A  total  of  9  phase  II/III  studies  and  1  paediatric  study  were  provided  to  support  the  indication  of 
efavirenz in adults and children. The clinical programme intended to evaluate the efficacy, safety and 
tolerability of efavirenz both in monotherapy and in combination with PIs, mainly indinavir but also 
nelfinavir,  NRTIs  predominantly  zidovudine  and  lamivudine  but  also  to  some  extent  with  stavudine 
and didanosine both in antiretroviral therapy naive and experienced patients. Double, triple as well as 
quadruple  therapy  with  efavirenz  have  been  evaluated.  Five  main  studies  were  presented  with  the 
proposed 600  mg dose, of which one was still ongoing and one presented efficacy data evaluable at  
48 weeks (study DMP 266-006). Two other controlled studies presented data at 24 weeks and several 
uncontrolled studies were submitted to support the efficacy.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
DMP 266-005 was the main dose ranging study to assess the efficacy and safety of efavirenz at the 
doses  of  200  mg,  400  mg  and  600  mg  in  combination  with  open-label  ZDV  +  lamivudine  in  HIV 
infected patients. The design of this study is presented in the section main studies. Overall the results 
at week 16 were consistent with the superiority of the triple combination regimen including efavirenz 
at any dose over the double NRTI regimen. The study was not powered enough to detect differences 
between  efavirenz  arms.  The  superiority  of  efavirenz  therapy  was  shown  by  the  number  of  patients 
with plasma HIV RNA < 400 copies/ml and further corroborated by the ultrasensitive assay (limit of 
detection  50  copies/ml),  and  greater  drops  in  viral  RNA  in  the  efavirenz-containing  groups.  
The  percentage  of  patients  with  undetectable  viral  load  was  quite  comparable  for  the  three  doses.  
After 16 weeks of treatment all the doses of efavirenz were changed to 600 mg, and the study design 
was changed (unblinding patients), which makes the interpretation of the results difficult. This study 
corroborated the effectiveness of efavirenz in combination with two NRTIs. 
Study  DMP  266-004  (cohort  I-III)  was  designed  to  assess  the  relative  efficacy  of  400  and  600  mg 
doses  when  added  to  lamivudine  and  zidovudine  therapy  in  patients  with  plasma  HIV  RNA  above 
2,500 copies/ml. This study enrolled 62 patients who were randomised as follows: ZDV + lamivudine 
(n = 23), or ZDV + lamivudine + efavirenz 400 mg (n = 22) or ZDV + lamivudine + efavirenz 600 mg 
(n = 17). At week 16 the efficacy measured by time-to-treatment failure using the HIV RNA plasma 
levels (limit of detection 400 copies/ml), was greater with the 600 mg dose. The number of patients 
was however too limited for a reliable statistical analysis. In addition since the protocol was amended 
several times and individuals receiving the 400 mg dose had higher baseline viral load and lower CD4 
cell counts than those receiving 600 mg, it is difficult to draw conclusions. Doses higher than 600 mg 
were not evaluated in terms of efficacy and safety.  
In  the  paediatric  study  ACTG  382,  the  pharmacokinetics  in  children  was  shown  to  be  equivalent  to 
that in adults adjusted for body size based on weight.  As a consequence, the recommended dose of 
600 mg was adjusted to body size, which was considered to be similar to the 600 mg dose of efavirenz 
used  in  adults.  For  children  weighing  40  kg  or  more,  the  recommended  dose  of  600  mg,  based  on 
adults in this weight range, was considered acceptable. 
Main studies 
Nine  phase  II/III  studies  and  one  paediatric  study  were  provided  with  the  submission.  All  the  main 
studies  compared  the  efficacy  of  efavirenz-containing  regimens  to  the  standard  of  care  at  the  time. 
Five main studies were presented with the proposed 600 mg dose, of which one was ongoing and one 
26/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
EFV  +  NFV  + 
NRTIs 
PAEDIATRIC 
ACTG 382 
and 
Reference 
ACTG 364 
EFV + IDV 
ZDV + LAM 
I/II 
Multicentre 
Open label 
PK study 
IDV + NRTIs 
DMP 266-006 
DMP 266-020 
DMP 266-005 
NFV + 2 NRTIs 
Phase 
Design 
MAIN STUDIES 
Test 
regimen 
EFV  + 
NRTIs 
EFV  200,  400  or 
600  mg  +  ZDV  + 
LAM 
II 
Multicentre 
Randomised 
Double blind 
Placebo-
controlled 
III 
Multicentre 
Randomised 
Double blind 
Placebo-controlled 
III 
Multicentre 
Randomised 
Partially  double 
blind 
rollover 
study 
III 
Multicentre 
Randomised 
Open label 
Comparative 
effectiveness 
safety studies 
ZDV  +  LAM  + 
IDV 
presented  efficacy  data  evaluable  at  48  weeks  (study  DMP  266-006).  Two  other  controlled  studies 
presented  data  at  24  weeks  and  several  uncontrolled  studies  were  submitted  to  support  the  efficacy. 
Final  study  reports  have  been  later  submitted  as  part  of  the  commitment  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
Efavirenz  has  been  evaluated  in  double  therapy  (efavirenz  +  indinavir/nelfinavir),  triple  therapy 
(efavirenz + zidovudine + lamivudine) and in quadruple therapy (efavirenz + indinavir/nelfinavir + 2 
NRTIs)  in  both  treatment  naive  and  experienced  patients.  The  overview  of  the  clinical  studies  is 
presented in the table below: 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Baseline 
characterist
ics (mean 
CD4 cell 
counts and 
mean HIV 
RNA 
EFV=efavirenz; IDV=indinavir; LAM=lamivudine; ZDV= zidovudine  
The primary clinical endpoint used in all clinical studies was the percentage of patients with viral load 
below  the  limit  of  detection  at  defined  time-points.  The  HIV  RNA  measurement  method  was  the 
Amplicor  assay  with  a  limit  of  detection  of  400  copies/mm3.  In  several  studies,  the  Amplicor 
ultrasensitive assay with a limit of detection of 50 copies/mm3 was also used in subsets of patients, but 
never for primary endpoint evaluation.  
Open 
extension 
phase  up  to  48 
weeks 
Treatment  naive 
patients 
HIV  RNA 
10,000 copies/ml 
CD4 cell counts ≥ 
50 cells/mm3 
23 to 71 years old 
367.2 cells/mm3 
PIs, NNRTIs and 
LAM naive patients 
HIV RNA > 10,000 
copies/ml 
CD4  cell  counts  ≥ 
50 cells/mm3 
18-64 years old 
345.3cells/mm3 
NRTIs failing 
PIs and NNRTIs 
naive 
HIV RNA > 500 
copies/ml 
18  to  74  years 
old 
388.3 cells/mm3 
EFV  +  ZDV  + 
LAM 
450 
(386 M/64 F) 
48 weeks 
Open 
phase  up 
weeks 
NRTIs experienced  
Patients (≥8 weeks) 
EFV + 2  NRTIs 
+ NFV 
195 
(171 M/24 F) 
24 weeks 
No of 
patients 
Treatment 
duration 
Planned 
duration 
HIV RNA > 10,000 
copies/ml 
22 to 64 years old 
184 
 (147 M/37 F) 
24 weeks 
137  
 (119 M/18 F) 
16 weeks 
Primary and secondary endpoints  
Criteria for 
inclusion 
3.91 log10 
copies/ml 
4.33 log10 copies/ml 
4.77 log10 copies/ml 
4.09 
copies/ml 
4.72 
copies/ml 
extension 
to  60 
325.0 cells/mm3 
EFV + 2 NRTIs 
60 weeks 
48 weeks 
IDV  + 
57  
(20 M/37 F) 
24 weeks 
log10 
> 
Secondary  clinical  endpoints  included  changes  from  baseline  of  plasma  HIV  RNA  and  CD4  cell 
counts. Time to treatment failure was evaluated using the HIV RNA levels. Other efficacy measures 
included changes in clinical status and the new emergence of HIV-related conditions. Quality of life 
27/37 
EMEA 2005 
NRTIs 
experienced 
> 400 copies/ml 
NNRTIs 
naive 
3 to 16 years  
  &  PI 
845.5 cells/mm3 
log10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Patient population 
Statistical analysis  
Some of the study protocols were amended several times in response to new scientific findings related 
to sub-optimal therapy and changes in the standard of care, which complicated the interpretation of the 
efficacy results achieved in the initial trials. 
The NC = F population includes all randomised patients and counting all patients not reaching a given 
time  point  as  failures  regardless  of  reason  for  premature  discontinuation.  Among  the  populations 
studied the NC = F was the most conservative and stringent group for efficacy assessment.  
was also evaluated in most of the studies using the MOS-HIV 30 Health Survey questionnaire, as well 
as  changes  from  baseline  of  body  weight  and  of  Karnofsky  score.  The  efficacy  measurements  and 
endpoints  used  are  in  accordance  with  the  CPMP  Points  to  Consider  document  on  antiretroviral 
medicinal  products  dated  November  1997  and  are  considered  acceptable.  It  has  recently  been 
demonstrated  that  the  lower  the  nadir  of  the  response  in  viral  load  (less  than  50  copies/ml)  is,  the 
better is the chance for durability of response. The use of the ultrasensitivity assay, in particular in 3 of 
the pivotal trials, is therefore of great interest for validating the antiviral activity efficacy of efavirenz. 
Efficacy  was  analysed  using  different  statistical  approaches:  Intention-to-Treat  (ITT)  population 
which  includes  all  randomised  patients  and  Efficacy  Evaluable  (EE)  population  which  includes  all 
patients who meet the efficacy evaluable criteria. Data analyses performed on these two populations 
included  observed  data,  last  observation  carried  forward  (LOCF)  and  Non  Completer  =  Failure  
(NC  =  F).  The  observed  data  consist  of  data  for  patients  reaching  a  given  time  point  without 
accounting  for  failures  and  drop-outs  whereas  in  the  ITT-LOCF  the  last  on-treatment  observation  is 
carried forward for patients who do not complete or have missing data at the last study visit. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The demographic and baseline characteristics of the adult patients enrolled were very similar in all the 
submitted studies. Baseline characteristics were well balanced between the efavirenz-treated patients 
and the control-treated patients with regards to demographics, viral load and CD4 cell counts. Of the 
874 patients randomised or crossover in the sponsor trials, 83 % were male, 63 % were Caucasian and   
19  %  Black.  The  median  age  was  36  years  (range17-71)  and  the  median  HIV  RNA  levels  was  
4.7  log10  copies/ml  (range  2.3-6.5  log10  copies/ml).  All  the  studies  were  conducted  in  patients  with 
early  HIV  disease,  the  median  CD4  cell  counts  being  324  cells/mm3  (range  9.5-1,234  cells/mm3). 
Important groups such as elderly patients, patients with advanced HIV disease, namely patients with 
CD4 cell counts < 50 cells/mm3, PI-experienced and NNRTI-experienced patients were excluded.  
This  was  an  open-label  study  due  to  the  complexity  of  blinding  the  study  medications,  which  is  an 
understandable  shortcoming.  The  protocol  was  amended  5  times  as  a  consequence  of  new  scientific 
knowledge. Initially patients randomised to the efavirenz + indinavir received efavirenz at the dose of 
400 mg once a day and indinavir at the dose of 1200 mg tid. These doses were respectively changed to 
600  mg  and  1000  mg  tid.  Consequently  the  size  of  the  different  arms  increased  as  well  as  the 
observation  period.  The  primary  objective  was  to  determine  the  equivalence  between  the  double 
therapy  efavirenz  +  indinavir  and  then  the  current  standard  of  care  indinavir  +  ZDV  +  lamivudine 
based  on  the  proportion  of  patients  with  HIV-RNA  levels  below  the  limit  of  detection  
(<  400  copies/ml).  This  study  was  the  largest  of  the  main  studies,  enrolling  450  patients  up  to  the  
24  week  endpoint.  The  baseline  characteristics  were  similar  between  all  treatment  groups  with  a 
plasma  HIV  RNA  approximately  4.77  log10  copies/ml  and  CD4  cell  counts  of  approximately  345 
cells/mm3.  
The paediatric study involved NRTI experienced children from 3 to 16 years of age with plasma HIV 
RNA > 400 copies/ml. 
Studies in adult patients 
Study DMP 266-006 
b) 
Results at 24 weeks showed equivalence between the double therapy (efavirenz + indinavir) and the 
reference 
(indinavir  +  ZDV  + 
the  patients 
included 
therapy 
in 
the    
lamivudine).  Of 
28/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Further  results  at  48  weeks  for  the  first  450  patients  enrolled  were  submitted  which  confirmed  the 
results observed at week 24.  
ITT –  NC =  F  population, 65  % and 56  % for these treatment  groups  respectively had undetectable 
viral  load  (<  400  copies/ml)  with  an  increase  in  the  CD4  cells  in  the  magnitude  of  134  and  
115  cells/mm3.  In  addition  the  viral  response  was  statistically  significant  in  favour  of  the  triple 
regimen containing efavirenz arm over the two other arms, with 74.7 % (< 400 copies/ml) and 58.0 % 
 (< 50 copies/ml) of patients having undetectable HIV plasma level using the more stringent analysis. 
A  mean  increase  of  CD4  counts  of  129  cells/mm3  and  a  mean  decrease  in  viral  load  of  2.1  log10  at 
week 24 were also demonstrated.   
The virological response was maintained at week 48 for the efavirenz + ZDV + lamivudine treatment 
arm  both  when  the  400  copies/ml  and  the  50  copies/ml  limits  were  considered.  The  percentage  of 
patients  with  undetectable  HIV  plasma  level  was  statistically  significant  in  favour  of  the  efavirenz 
triple regimen arm compared to the current standard care although this was not the primary analysis 
for  this  protocol  (71.1  %  below  400  copies/ml  and  65  %  below  50  copies/ml).  More  patients  in  the 
indinavir/ZDV/lamivudine arm discontinued the treatment due to adverse events compared to the two 
other treatment arms. This might have contributed to the differences in the percentage of patients with 
undetectable viral load in favour of efavirenz. At 48 weeks 28 patients in total discontinued treatment 
in the indinavir + ZDV + lamivudine group compared to 10 in the efavirenz + ZDV + lamivudine due 
to  an  adverse  event.  A  post  hoc  logistic  regression  analysis  of  the  impact  of  multiple  baseline 
parameters on efficacy was performed based on the responder rates. This analysis demonstrated that 
there was no correlation between baseline weight, age, sex, race, plasma HIV RNA, CD4 cell counts 
on efficacy outcome for the efavirenz plus two NRTIs arm. Patients were stratified by baseline plasma 
HIV-RNA  (below  and  above  100,000  copies/ml)  and  results  demonstrated  that  the  percentage  of 
responders seemed to be independent of the baseline viral load. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Viral  load  below 
400 copies per ml 
Viral  load  below 
50 copies per ml 
Change 
from 
baseline  CD4  cell 
counts (cells/mm3) 
ITT :NC = F : Intent to treat population = non completer = failure criteria 
ITT :  LOCF : Intent to treat population = last observation carried forward criteria 
The response rate at 48 weeks was in line with the results reported at 24 weeks remaining higher in the 
triple  combination  including  efavirenz  group.  Although  the  study  was  not  designed  to  show  a 
difference between the 2 triple combination arms it was subsequently amended to be so. The response 
rate was higher in efavirenz + lamivudine + zidovudine group compared to indinavir + lamivudine + 
zidovudine group. The response rate was also higher in the efavirenz + indinavir group compared to 
the  triple  combination  control  group  including  indinavir  but  the  difference  was  not  statistically 
significant. 
Final analysis performed on a subset including 614 patients who had been enrolled at least 48 weeks 
prior to cut-off has been later submitted. The results are presented below: 
Percentage of patients with plasma viral loads below the limit of detection at 48 weeks and 
change from baseline CD4 cell counts (cells/mm3) 
Efavirenz + ZDV+ 
lamivudine 
n = 202 
Indinavir + ZDV+ 
lamivudine 
n = 206 
Efavirenz + 
indinavir 
n = 206 
Method of 
analysis 
ITT: LOCF 
ITT: NC=F 
ITT: NC=F 
66.7 % 
61.6 % 
45.3 % 
40.4 % 
54.0 % 
47.8 % 
187 
177 
153 
The same pattern was seen when using the ultrasensitive HIV RNA assay. 
The  virologic  failure  rate  was  statistically  significantly  lower  in  the  triple  combination  including 
efavirenz  arm  than  in  the  triple  arm  including  indinavir.  The  number  of  discontinuations  due  to 
adverse events was also lower, but was similar in both efavirenz-containing regimes (27 in each arm).  
29/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Study ACTG 364 
The final results at 48 weeks have been later submitted and are presented in the table below: 
An  analysis  of  the  durability  of  response  was  performed,  in  which  the  duration  of  response  was 
calculated from the time of first confirmed response (defined by a viral load less than 400 copies) to 
the  time  of  treatment  failure.  No  statistically  significant  differences  between  efavirenz  +  indinavir 
group and the control group were noted (p = 0.2463). 
Further results at 24 weeks were provided and demonstrated that efavirenz in combination with 1 PI 
and  2  NRTIs  in  NRTIs-experienced  patients  was  superior  to  the  standard  regimen  PI  +  2  NRTIs  in 
terms of viral response. Unlike the other two triple therapy arms, the mean CD4 change from baseline 
was not statistically significant at 24 weeks from the baseline values.  
The primary statistical comparisons for efficacy were based on efavirenz + nelfinavir + NRTIs versus 
nelfinavir + NRTIs. In this study, a cut-off of 500 copies/ml was used as the limit of detection. Interim 
analysis at 16 weeks showed a trend towards better results in the efavirenz-containing regimen. Patient 
discontinuation  rate  at  16  weeks  was  low  and  accounted  respectively  for  1  in  nelfinavir  +  NRTIs 
group, 0 in efavirenz + NRTIs group and 5 in efavirenz + NRTIs + nelfinavir. 
To  further  explore  the  relationship  between  baseline  HIV  RNA  levels  and  plasma  HIV  RNA 
suppression  at  48  weeks,  results  for  the  NC  =  F  analysis  were  presented  according  to  baseline  HIV 
RNA less than or greater than or equal to 100,000 copies/ml. The results seemed to favour both triple 
combination arms for which the treatment results were not significantly affected by the baseline HIV 
RNA  values  whereas  with  the  double  combination  a  significantly  better  outcome  was  observed  in 
patients with baseline HIV RNA lower than 100,000 copies/ml. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Change 
from 
baseline  CD4  cell 
counts (cells/mm3) 
* Statistical superiority demonstrated for efavirenz + NRTIs over nelfinavir + NRTIs  
# Statistical superiority demonstrated for efavirenz + NRTIs + nelfinavir over nelfinavir + NRTIs 
No statistically significant changes were observed between treatment groups with respect to CD4 cell 
counts.    Statistically  significant  changes  from  baseline  have  however  been  observed  across  all 
treatment groups. 
An  analysis  of  the  durability  of  response  showed  that  both  efavirenz  +  nelfinavir  and  efavirenz 
treatment groups had a significant longer time to treatment failure than the nelfinavir group. 
The  response  rate  was  statistically  significantly  higher  in  nelfinavir  +  efavirenz  group  compared  to 
nelfinavir group for all treatment weeks (except week 16). 
Percentage of patients with plasma viral loads below the limit of detection at 48 weeks and 
change from baseline CD4 cell counts (cells/mm3) 
In this study, 92 patients were included in each group and the most common prior NRTIs were ZDV 
and lamivudine. Patients were allowed to continue on their regimen of NRTIs or change to new NRTIs 
at  the  onset  of  the  study  and  at  the  discretion  of  the  physician.  Patients  were  on  a  wide  variety  of 
single,  double  and  triple  combination  NRTIs  in  addition  to  efavirenz  and  indinavir.  An  interim 
analysis was performed at 24 weeks. The results showed that a statistically significant difference with 
respect  to  the  primary  endpoint  (percentage  of  patients  with  plasma  levels  of  viral  load  
< 400 copies/ml) in favour of efavirenz groups with the LOCF analysis.  In the NC = F analysis the 
difference was however not statistically significant although there was a trend to better results. It was 
30/37 
Efavirenz + 
NRTIs + 
nelfinavir 
n = 65  
Nelfinavir + 
NRTIs 
n = 66 
Efavirenz + 
NRTIs 
n = 65 
Viral 
500 copies per ml 
30.2 % #  
(45.3 %* #) 
Method of 
analysis 
Study DMP 266-020 
58.1 % (60.3 %) 
70.3 % (78.0 %) 
load  below 
107.4 (45.8) 
113.8 (81.3) 
ITT: LOCF 
ITT: NC=F 
93.8 (69.9) 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive data 
shown  that  63.7  %  versus  52.2  %  of  patients  (ITT:  NC  =  F)  receiving  the  quadruple  regimen  and 
standard regimen respectively had achieved viral suppression < 400 copies/ml. This corresponded to 
54.3 % versus 35.6 % respectively who had achieved viral suppression < 50 copies/ml (p < 0.05). 
The efficacy, safety and tolerability of efavirenz in patients with advanced HIV disease have not been 
evaluated. An adequate statement has therefore been included into the SPC to reflect this lack of data. 
Similarly although cross-resistance between efavirenz and PIs has not been documented, there are at 
present insufficient data on the efficacy of subsequent use of PI based triple combination therapy after 
failure of efavirenz containing regimens. 
Final  results  at  24  weeks  obtained  from  327  patients  have  been  subsequently  submitted.   
Greater  percentage  of  patients  in  the  efavirenz  group  had  plasma  HIV  RNA  levels  <  400  copies/ml 
compared  with  the  control  group  (59.6  %  versus  50.9  %  respectively)  but  this  difference  was  not 
statistically  significant.  With  respect  to  CD4  cell  counts,  significant  mean  increases  from  baseline 
were  observed  within  both  treatment  groups  at  all  point  and  at  24  weeks  a  significant  difference  in 
favour of the efavirenz group was noted (LOCF: 104 cells/ml versus 77 cells/ml respectively). 
The interim reports for 5 supportive studies were provided. In one of the studies, results demonstrated 
the  high  efficacy  of  efavirenz  +  PI  (nelfinavir),  which  further  corroborated  the  results  obtained  in 
study 006. In another study, the efficacy and safety of a 2 doses regimen of indinavir were compared 
to a 3 doses  regimen in  combination  with  efavirenz bid  and  once  daily.  The data  however were too 
limited to recommend a twice daily dosage regimen for efavirenz. The efficacy and safety of bedtime 
dosing were also evaluated in patients administered efavirenz in combination with indinavir. Although 
the  number  of  patients  dosed  during  daytime  was  too  small  to  allow  statistical  analysis,  a  trend 
towards the increase in the most relevant adverse events was observed in this group, which might be in 
favour of a bedtime dosing. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Other  studies  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  efavirenz  when  used  as  part  of  combination 
therapies with other antiretroviral agents are ongoing. One of these studies is an ongoing open-label, 
one  arm,  non-randomised  study  in  60  patients  taking  efavirenz  600  mg  QD  +  ritonavir  500  mg  bid. 
Enrolment  in  this  study  has  however  been  stopped  after  33  patients  have  entered  because  of  issues 
related to the lack of availability of ritonavir hard capsules. Only limited data is therefore available for 
a small subset of patients that have reached week 16. Observed data show that based on 17 patients 
approximately 35 % of patients have plasma HIV RNA < 400 copies/ml at week 4. At week 12 based 
on  6  patients  85  %  of  patients  have  plasma  HIV  RNA  <  400  copies/ml.  Mean  CD4  cells  levels 
increase by approximately 160 cells by week 12.  
Details of the study protocol are desribed in the section: “pharmacokinetics”.  
The  primary  efficacy  measures  were  the  percentage  of  patients  with  plasma  HIV-RNA  levels  <400 
copies/mL  quantified  by  the  Amplicor  assay  and  the  percentage  of  patients  with  plasma  HIV-RNA 
levels <50 copies/mL quantified by the ultrasensitive assay. Secondary measures of efficacy included 
time  to  treatment  failure  (TTF),  duration  of  response,  change  from  baseline  in  log  10  transformed 
plasma HIV-RNA levels, and mean change from baseline in CD4 count. 
Study in children 
Study ACTG 382 
31/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
These results are summarised in the following table: 
Measure 
63 (±35) 
378 (±69) 
Clinical safety 
-1.71 (±0.15) 
-1.07 (±0.11) 
Patient exposure 
Cohort I (48 weeks) 
Cohort II (32 weeks) 
30/57 (52.6%) (39.7, 65.6) 
31/57 (54.4%) (41.5, 67.3) 
3/10 (30.0%) (1.6, 58.4) 
12/18 (66.7%) (44.9, 88.4) 
12/18 (66.7%) (44.9, 88.4) 
13/18 (72.2%) (51.5, 92.9) 
34/57 (59.6%) (46.9, 72.4) 
40/57 (70.2%) (58.3, 82.1) 
These  results  were  not  significantly  different  from  those  generally  found  for  the  adult  population, 
especially  when  the  results  of  DMP  266-024,  the  only  open-label,  non-comparative  study  that 
evaluated the efficacy of the nelfinavir + efavirenz combination in adults 
Response  rates  (<400  copies/mL)  at  32  weeks  for  children  under  5  years  of  age  were  62.5%  as 
compared  to  70.0%  in  children  aged  5  to  8  years.  When  using  the  Ultrasensitive  assay  
(<50 copies/ml), response rates (NC=F) were 40% and 20%, respectively, for the <5 and 5 to 8 years 
age groups, respectively, although rates are affected by missing HIV-RNA data.  At 20 weeks, when 
more data are available, response rates are 66.7% (12/18) and 70.6% (12/17). 
HIV-RNA < 400 copies/mL 
NC=F 
LOCF 
HIV-RNA < 50 copies/mL 
NC=F 
LOCF 
Mean change from baseline in log10 transformed HIV-RNA levels 
LOCF 
Mean change from baseline in CD4 
LOCF 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The safety database for efavirenz consisted of data collected from healthy subjects (n = 222, all doses 
and regimens included) and HIV infected patients in about 30 Phase I, II and III studies. Efavirenz has 
been  studied  in  combination  with  NRTIs,  predominantly  zidovudine  and  lamivudine,  with  protease 
inhibitors  (mostly  with  indinavir)  and  both  with  NRTIs  and  PIs.  A  total  of  2,215  patients  were 
exposed  to  efavirenz  at  any  doses  across  all  studies  of  which  855  for  at  least  24  weeks.  
Over  2000  patients  received  the  intended  dose  for  marketing  of  600  mg  daily,  764  for  at  least  
24  weeks.  Safety  data  from  controlled  clinical  studies    (phase  II/III)  included  413  patients  who 
received 600 mg efavirenz and 297 patients who were treated with control regimens. Data from 381 
unaffected volunteers who received efavirenz were also submitted. Additional safety information from 
patients exposed to efavirenz up to 48 weeks was provided.  
Overall 43 of the 746 efavirenz treated patients (5.8 %) discontinued from clinical studies due to an 
adverse  event  compared  to  8.5  %  in  the  non-efavirenz  treated  patients.  The  most  common  adverse 
events  which  led  to  discontinuation  in  the  efavirenz  treated  group  were  gastrointestinal  symptoms, 
nervous  system  symptoms,  rash,  headache,  fatigue  and  increased  LFTs  (mostly  in  patients  with 
hepatitis B and C).  
The  most  common  adverse  events  observed  in  more  than  10  %  of  the  patients  (n  =  413)  receiving  
600  mg  efavirenz,  included  nausea  (29.1  %),  dizziness  (26.6  %),  headache  (23.5  %),  diarrhoea 
 (23.5  %),  fatigue,  vomiting,  maculo-papular  rash  (14.8  %),  insomnia  (13.3  %),  and  impaired 
concentration  (11.4  %).  Statistically  higher  adverse  event  rates  in  efavirenz-treated  compared  with 
control-treated  patients  (n  =  297)  were  noted  for  dizziness,  maculopapular  rash,  concentration 
impaired,  depression,  nervousness,  dreaming  abnormal  and  euphoria.  Although  frequently  reported, 
these adverse events were rarely of serious nature and only occasionally led to discontinuation of the 
treatment.  They  were  generally  of  early  onset  and  tended  to  attenuate  or  disappear  with  time  even 
under treatment. Data from study DMP 266-006 up to 48 weeks indicated that adverse events might 
still  develop  after  the  24  week  of  treatment  with  efavirenz.  The  most  concerning  adverse  events 
associated with efavirenz therapy were nervous system symptoms and skin rash. 
Adverse events 
32/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rash 
The safety profile of different doses of efavirenz was similar in terms of the incidence of new-onset 
adverse  events,  although  significantly  higher  frequencies  of  dizziness  (23.6  %  with  600  mg  versus 
16.2  %  with  200  mg)  vomiting  (13.0  %  with  600  mg  versus  4.8%  with  200  mg)  and  somnolence  
(7.1  %  with  600  mg  versus  1.0  %  with  200  mg)  were  noted  with  higher  doses.  However  the  more 
favourable  pharmacokinetic  profile  demonstrated  for  this  dose  which  was  associated  with  increased 
exposure and higher mean trough levels, justified its choice as the proposed dose in clinical use. 
An updated safety analysis from the controlled clinical studies was later presented on 1,643 patients of 
who  1,008  received  600  mg  efavirenz  daily  in  combination  with  protease  inhibitors  and/or  NRTIs.  
The  incidence  of  undesirable  effects  already  identified  at  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion  have  been 
subsequently updated  in the Summary of Product Characteristics  according to the  availability of the 
new data. 
In clinical studies, 28 % of patients treated with 600 mg of efavirenz experienced skin rash compared 
with 18 % of patients treated in control groups. The updated safety information, available during the 
post-authorisation  phase  showed  similar  frequencies  of  26  %  and  17  %  respectively.  Skin  rash  was 
considered treatment related in 18  % of patients treated with efavirenz. Severe rash occurred in less 
than  1  %  of  patients  treated  with  efavirenz  and  1.7  %  discontinued  therapy  because  of  rash.  
The  incidence  of  erythema  multiforme  or  Stevens-Johnson  Syndrome  was  approximately  0.1%.   
No cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported. 
Rashes  were  usually  mild-to-moderate  severity  not  dose  related,  with  a  median  time  to  onset  of  
11  days  (range  0,171  days)  and  duration  of  two  weeks  (range  1  to  >  174  days).  The  rashes  were 
described  as  urticaria,  maculopapular,  erythematus  or  pruritic  and  rarely  associated  with  fever.  
Palliative  therapy  with  antihistamines  and/or  corticosteroids  was  often  initiated,  but  the  benefit  of 
these  therapies  has  not  been  established  in  controlled  studies.  In  most  patients  rash  resolved  with 
continuing therapy with efavirenz within one month. In thirteen patients efavirenz was reinitiated after 
interrupting therapy because of rash and no recurrence was observed.   
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Symptoms including, but not limited to, dizziness, insomnia, somnolence, impaired concentration, and 
abnormal  dreaming  were  frequently  reported  undesirable  effects  in  patients  receiving  efavirenz 
600 mg  daily  in  clinical  studies.    In  controlled  clinical  studies  where  600 mg  efavirenz  was 
administered  with  other  antiretroviral  agents,  22.8  %  of  patients  experienced  nervous  system 
symptoms of moderate to severe intensity compared to 10.1 % of patients receiving control regimens. 
In 2.9 % of patients these symptoms were of Grade 3 in the efavirenz group compared with 1.3 % in 
control group. In clinical studies 2.7 % of patients discontinued efavirenz therapy because of nervous 
system symptoms.  Nervous system symptoms usually begin during the first or second day of therapy 
and  generally  resolved  after  the  first  2-4  weeks.    In  uninfected  volunteers  in  multiple  dosed  studies 
with efavirenz monotherapy, reported adverse events included euphoria (8.7 %), abnormal dreaming 
(4.6 %). The median time to onset of euphoria was 1 hour post dose (range 0.03 – 3.9 hours) with a 
median  duration  of  3  hours.  The  mechanism  behind  the  nervous  system  symptoms  associated  with 
efavirenz  treatment  is  unknown.  In  the  controlled  study  DMP  266-006,  there  was  a  higher  risk  for 
depression  and  nervousness  in  the  efavirenz  +  indinavir  group  versus  indinavir  +  zidovudine  
+ lamivudine which suggests an iatrogenic effect to efavirenz. As already indicated, bedtime dosing 
appeared to improve the tolerability of efavirenz, although the number of patients in the study is too 
small  to  perform  statistical  analysis.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  investigate  the  effects  of 
lorazepam  on  efavirenz-associated  CNS  effects.  During  the  post-marketing  surveillance,  it  appeared 
that  these  nervous  system  symptoms  were  usually  encountered  during  the  first  one  or  two  days  of 
therapy and generally resolve after the first 2 - 4 weeks.   
Limited  data  from  19  patients  enrolled  in  a  named  patient  programme  who  due  to  intolerance  to 
nevirapine manifested by rash were treated with efavirenz were submitted. Of these, 9 developed mild 
to moderate rash while on efavirenz and only 2 discontinued as a result of rash. 
Nervous system symptoms 
In addition there were reports (around 1-2 per 1,000 patients treated with efavirenz) of psychosis-like 
reactions, such as delusions and inappropriate behaviour in patients treated with efavirenz especially 
in patients with an history of mental illness or substance abuse. There is currently too limited data to 
33/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
define the potential risk factors associated with these effects. After efavirenz discontinuation, the time 
to  nervous  system  symptoms  resolution  accounted  for  a  median  of  1  day  which  contrasted  with  the 
median of 12.5 days reported in patients who continued treatment with efavirenz.  
In the 874 efavirenz treated patients in controlled trials, pancreatitis was not reported. In the expanded 
access  programme,  47  cases  among  17,000  patients  exposed  (<  0.3  %)  were  reported  but  no  cases 
were clearly related to efavirenz. An appropriate statement has however been included into the SPC.  
Cases  of  neurosis,  paranoid  reactions,  convulsions,  blurred  visions,  pruritus,  abdominal  pain, 
gynaecomastia  and  hepatic  failure  have  been  reported  in  the  updated  safety  information,  available 
during the post-authorisation phase. 
During  the  post-authorisation  phase,  occurrence  of  psychiatric  symptoms  is  closely  monitored.  
There  have  also  been  reports  of  severe  depression,  death  by  suicide,  delusions  and  psychosis-like 
behaviour. 
An  analysis  of  suicide  (completed,  attempted  or  suicide  ideation)  was  also  performed  based  on  the 
safety  database  and  on  the  spontaneous  adverse  event  reporting  either  from  expanded  access 
programmes or post-marketing surveillance. Based on this analysis, an appropriate statement has been 
introduced into the SPC to recommend the use of efavirenz with caution in patients with a history of 
pre-existing  psychiatric  disorders  or  drug  abuse.  The  relationship  between  efavirenz  and  completed 
suicide and suicide attempt/ideation cannot be ruled out; this issue requires to be clarified through a 
rigorous prospective study or a case control study.  
The correlation between the occurrence of nervous system symptoms and plasma level of efavirenz is 
under  investigation  in  order  to  provide  clear  recommendation  to  prescribers  on  how  to  handle 
efavirenz when concentrations are likely to increase (e.g. concomitant food-intake). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Elevations  of  γ-GT  were  common  in  the  efavirenz-treated  group,  which  may  reflect  an  enzymatic 
induction.  The  incidence  of  AST  and  ALT  abnormalities  did  not  differ  between  efavirenz-treated 
patients  without  a  history  of  hepatitis  and  control  patients.  In  53  patients  treated  with  600 mg  of 
efavirenz  who  were  seropositive  for  hepatitis  B  and/or  C,  6  %  developed  AST  levels  and  13  % 
developed ALT levels greater than 5 upper limit of normal (ULN) versus 5 % and 2 % respectively in 
control group (n = 41). Elevations of γ-GT to greater than five times ULN were observed in 4 % of all 
patients  treated  with  600 mg  of  efavirenz  and  in  11  %  of  patients  seropositive  for  hepatitis  B  or  C 
versus  in  the  control  group.  The  monitoring  of  liver  enzymes  in  patients  with  hepatitis  B  or  C  is 
therefore warranted as indicated in the SPC. Updated data provided by the applicant showed that over 
35,000  patients  receiving  efavirenz,  including  17,000  patients  in  the  expanded  access  programme, 
treatment related hepatic failure was not reported. 
Approximately  80  of  the  2,215  (4  %)  efavirenz-treated  patients  reported  a  serious  adverse  event.  
Of these 34 were considered possibly related to efavirenz. Most of the serious adverse events reported 
related to nervous system disorders (one seizure), liver biliary system disorders (increased ALT, AST, 
γ-GT,  ALP)  and  haematology  disorders.  One  patient  had  a  grade  4  increase  in  CK.  Three  cases  of 
grade 4 rash were also reported. 
An increased triglyceride and cholesterol and glucose levels were reported with efavirenz treatment as 
well as a new onset of insulin-dependant diabetes mellitus. The protocol of study DMP 266-006 was 
amended to include measurements of cholesterol, triglycerides in newly enrolled patients at baseline 
and at each visit. Elevation of total cholesterol was greatest in the efavirenz + indinavir group.  
None of the five deaths that occurred in patients receiving efavirenz was related to the product. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Laboratory findings 
Preliminary  results  suggested  that  efavirenz  appeared  associated  with  increases  in  blood  cholesterol 
and  this  increase  might  consist  mostly  of  HDL  cholesterol  moiety.  Further  results  showed  that 
increases in non-fasting total cholesterol and HDL of approximately 20 % and 25 % respectively were 
observed in patients treated with efavirenz + zidovudine + lamivudine and of approximately 40 % and 
34/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
35 % in patients treated with efavirenz + indinavir. The effects of efavirenz on triglycerides and LDL 
are not well defined. The clinical significance of these findings is currently unknown.  
Safety profile of efavirenz in combination 
Experience in Post-Authorisation surveillance 
A  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  incidence  of  increases  in  serum  amylase  levels  was  also 
observed between efavirenz-treated and control groups and was therefore introduced in the SPC.  
Although  nephrotoxicity  was  observed  in  rats  treated  with  efavirenz,  the  clinical  studies  in  humans 
have not indicated any signs of nephrotoxicity. 
Efavirenz was studied in combination with other antiretroviral agents. The tolerability of the different 
combinations evaluated was acceptable. No new adverse events or changes in expected frequency or 
severity  of  adverse  events  were  observed  in  patients  receiving  PIs.  Efavirenz  in  combination  with 
ritonavir (500 mg q 12h) administered in healthy volunteers or in infected patients (maximum 600mg 
ritonavir  dose)  was  not  well  tolerated  and  was  associated  with  higher  frequency  of  adverse  events  
(e.g. dizziness, nausea) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes) as already indicated in 
the clinical efficacy part.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Treatment  with  a  combination  of  at  least  three  antiretroviral  drugs  can  induce  a  characteristic 
syndrome  termed  lipodystrophy  or  fat  redistribution  syndrome  containing  peripheral  fat  wasting 
(including  accentuation  of  facial  folds)  and  central  adiposity.  Metabolic  disturbances  such  as 
hyperlipidaemia and insulin resistance also often appear. PIs were originally believed to be the causal 
agents.  NRTIs  have  also  been  implicated.  In  addition,  lipodystrophy  has  also  been  observed  with 
protease-inhibitor-sparing  regimens.  The  emerging  picture  is  that  of  a  connection  between  visceral 
lipomatosis  and  protease  inhibitors  and  lipoatrophy  and  NRTIs  correlating  with  different  possible 
mechanisms e.g. effects on lipoprotein production and adipocyte differentiation. Non-drug factors are 
also of importance e.g. increasing age, duration and severity of HIV infection. 
Following  evaluation  of  data  submitted  by  all  MAHs  of  antiretroviral  medicinal  products,  a  class 
labelling,  which  harmonises  the  information  on  lipodystrophy  for  all  three  classes  of  antiretroviral 
products, has been agreed and implemented in the product information for all antiretroviral medicinal 
products. The wording presents as much as possible of the presently available knowledge; it gives a 
description  of  the  condition  (although  there  is  at  present  no  clear  definition  of  lipodystrophy), 
information  about  causality  and  surveillance  measures.  The  higher  risk  of  developing  lipodystrophy 
with  long-term  therapy  as  well  as  importance  of  factors  such  as  age  and  disease  related  factors  is 
mentioned.  
Gender and race 
The patients included in the efavirenz safety database are representative of the population affected by 
HIV  disease  (83  %  male,  58  %  White,  19  %  Black,  10  %  intravenous  drug  abusers,  65  % 
homosexual/bisexual  in  patients  receiving  600  mg  efavirenz  in  controlled  studies).  No  significant 
difference in terms of adverse events has been reported according to the age, racial group and other 
demographic parameters.  
Because of the demographic of the disease and the enrolment criteria in the clinical studies, the safety 
profile of efavirenz in adults above 65 years old has not been established. 
Safety in special populations 
Paediatric 
Elderly 
Safety  of  efavirenz  in  children  was  assessed  in  the    ACTG  382  study.  The  type  of  adverse  events 
reported  in  children  taking  the  capsule  formulation,  was  similar  to  the  ones  in  adults.  The  most 
important  effect  reported  was  rash  reported  with  an  incidence  higher  compared  with  adults  
(35  %  instead  of  28  %  in  adults).  Among  them  two  children  had  Grade  3  rash.  Five  patients 
discontinued therapy because of rash, which represented a higher discontinuation rate (9 %) compared 
to adults (1.7 %). The most common adverse events reported were diarrhoea (26 %), fever and cough. 
35/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall Conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Nervous  system  symptoms  were  only  reported  occasionally  (5  %).  At  the  48  week  time  point,  rash 
was  reported  in  23/57  patients  (40  %)  including  2/57  patients  of  Grade  3  (3.5  %)  and  2/57  patients  
(3.5 %) of Grade 4. The median time to onset for rash was 9 days (range 6-247 days) and the median 
duration was 4.5 days. Severe rash was shown to be manageable by discontinuation of the treatment. 
The  additional  data  submitted  at  48  weeks  did  not  reveal  any  new  adverse  events  but  updated  the 
incidences as reflected in the SPC. They confirmed a trend towards a greater incidence and severity of 
skin-related adverse events in children than in adults.  
The  quality  of  this  product  was  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product were investigated and were controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Safety data with the liquid formulation C in HIV-infected children is derived only from the 19 patients 
included in Cohort II of study ACTG 382. Overall, and despite the small number of patients, the most 
relevant  safety  finding  is  the  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  rash  in  patients  treated  with  the  liquid 
formulation  as  compared  to  the  capsules,  which  must  be  better  evaluated  in  a  significant  number  of 
patients.  
Taking  into  consideration  the  therapeutic  indication  of  efavirenz,  the  pharmacological  and 
toxicological  profile  was  satisfactory  defined  although  there  were  some  concerns  related  to  the 
efavirenz-mediated  multifocal  biliary  fibrosis  and  centrilobular  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  which 
needed  further  clarifications.  Due  to  the  suspicion  of  embryotoxicity  with  efavirenz  in  rats  and  the 
evident teratologic effects in cynomolgus monkey, efavirenz should not be given in pregnant women, 
as indicated in  the  SPC. Carcinogenicity  studies of  efavirenz were carried out  on  monkeys, rats and 
mice. The results showed an increased incidence of hepatic and pulmonary tumors in female mice, but 
not in male mice. The mechanism of tumor formation and the potential relevance for humans are not 
known.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The  efficacy  data  including  preliminary  data  up  to  48  weeks  showed  that  efavirenz  at  the  dose  of  
600  mg,  either  in  combination  with  a  PI  or  2  NRTIs  was  a  valuable  therapeutic  alternative  for  
HIV infected patients. Efavirenz in combination showed higher response rates than standard PI/NRTI 
treatment regimens in two independent studies. In study DMP 266-006, data up to 48 weeks showed 
that  efavirenz  in  combination  with  zidovudine  and  lamivudine  was  at  least  as  effective  to  the 
combination indinavir/lamivudine/zidovudine in NRTIs-experienced in terms of percentage of patients 
with  viral  load  below  the  limit  of  detection.  In  study  ACTG  364,  efavirenz  in  combination  with 
nelfinavir plus NRTIs was superior to the standard regimen nelfinavir + NRTIs in NRTIs-experienced 
patients. An analysis of durability of response showed that both efavirenz + nelfinavir and efavirenz 
treatment  groups  had  a  significant  longer  time  to  treatment  failure  than  the  nelfinavir  group.  
The  efficacy  of  efavirenz  in  children  was  based  on  the  extrapolation  of  data  from  adults  and  on  the 
data  from  study  ACTG  382.  A  suitable  paediatric  formulation  has  been    developed.  However,  a 
concern is raised with regard to the compliance with the oral solution formulation that was applied for. 
This  reduced  compliance,  may  be  related  either  to  poor  palatability  of  the  formulation  and/or  with 
dosing accuracy from the care providers.  To address this issue, a revised treatment nomogram for the 
formulation has been adopted.  This may help to overcome the problem of underexposure in children 
younger than 5 years.  However, for the time being, the usefulness of the oral solution, is not evident 
in the data from children over 3 years who are able to swallow the capsules.  Hence, the restriction to 
reserve  oral  efavirenz  solution  only  to  those  who  are  unable  to  swallow  the  capsules  or  film-coated 
tablets. 
In this therapeutic area where all the agents have to date relatively narrow therapeutic windows, it is 
justified  to  administer  in  combination,  an  agent  at  its  maximally  tolerated  dose.  The  maximally 
tolerated dose of efavirenz has not been determined. The dose of 600 mg once daily was however the 
more favourable pharmacokinetic profile and was associated with increased exposure and higher mean 
trough  levels,  which  justified  its  choice  as  the  proposed  dose  in  clinical  use.  This  dose  was  also 
associated with an acceptable safety profile. 
36/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The  efficacy,  safety  and  tolerability  of  efavirenz  in  patients  with  advanced  HIV  disease  (namely  
< 50 cells/mm3) have not been evaluated. An adequate statement has therefore been included into the 
SPC to reflect this lack of data. Similarly although cross-resistance between efavirenz and PIs has not 
been documented, there are at present insufficient data on the efficacy of subsequent use of PI based 
triple combination therapy after failure of efavirenz containing regimens. 
The  limited  safety  data  in  children  treated  with  efavirenz  capsules  indicated  that  the  type  and  the 
frequency  of  adverse  events  in  children  was  generally  similar  to  that  in  adult  patients,  with  the 
exception  of  rash  which  was  reported  more  frequently  and  was  more  often  of  higher  grade.  
With  reference  to  safety  of  the  liquid  formulation  in  children,  the  submitted  data  are  scarce.  
Further  evaluation,  under  appropriate  dosing  conditions  (i.e.,  with  the  commercial  formulation)  in  a 
significant number of paediatric patients is awaited. 
At  the  time  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation,  over  2,000  patients  received  the  intended  dose  for 
marketing of  600  mg daily, 764 for at least 24 weeks. The safety of efavirenz in the clinical setting 
was mainly related with the nervous system, with the occurrence of rash and with the development of 
changes  in  liver  function  tests.  Although  frequently  observed,  the  adverse  events  were  rarely  of 
serious  nature  and  only  occasionally  led  to  discontinuation  of  the  treatment.  These  adverse  events 
were  considerably  well  characterised  in  terms  of  the  time  of  appearance  and  duration,  and 
discontinuation of treatment was not  mandatory in most  of the events. They were generally of early 
onset and tended to attenuate or disappear with time even under treatment..  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Based on the available data on quality, safety and efficacy and the subsequent  discussion within the 
Committee,  the  CPMP  considered  by  consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Sustiva  for  use  in 
antiviral combination treatment in HIV infected adults and children over 3 years of age patients to be 
favourable  and  recommended  a  positive  opinion  on  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for 
Sustiva  50,  100  and  200  mg  hard  capsules  for  the  following  indication:  “Sustiva  is  indicated  in 
antiviral combination treatment of HIV-1 infected adults, adolescents and children of 3 years of age 
and  older”.    The  film-coated  tablets  300mg  and  600mg  received  the  identical  indication,  whilst  the  
oral solution is reserved to those unable to swallow the solid formulations.  
Concerns  were  raised  during  the  CPMP  discussion  which  pertained  to  the  safety  and  efficacy  of 
efavirenz  in  a  paediatric  population.  During  the  oral  presentation  in  front  of  the  Committee,  the 
applicant presented preliminary data from study ACTG 382 up to 48 weeks. The complete data set at 
20  weeks  showed  the  durability  of  the  efficacy  of  efavirenz  up  to  20  weeks  with  more  than  61  %  
(95 %: CI 48-74) of patients with  plasma viral load below the limit of detection in the ITT-NC = F 
analysis.  The  CD4  cell  counts  at  20  weeks  increased  by  100  ±  37.5  cells/  mm3  from  baseline.  
The concern of safety in children was further addressed and further data were submitted to show that 
efavirenz is generally well tolerated and that rash is identifiable and manageable.  
The final efficacy and safety data up to 48 weeks from the main studies which were provided after the 
CPMP opinion was granted did not affect the benefit/risk of Sustiva but led to adequate changes to the 
product information. 
37/37 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
