(efavirenz) 
Sustiva 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000249/A45/56 
18 December 2012 
EMA/815692/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new 
corporate identity in December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently 
produced by the Agency. 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur:  
Start of the procedure: 
Date of the report: 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb  
Rapporteur’s Assessment Report 
for Post-Authorisation Commitments (PACs) 
26-04-2009 
P45 065 
Prof. Beatriz Silva Lima 
EMEA/H/C/249 
Sustiva 
(efavirenz) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Name: Joana Teles 
Tel: 
Email: 
Name: Dr. Luís Caldeira 
Tel: 
Email: 
joana.teles@infarmed.pt 
09-06-2009 
02-06-2009 
Date of the updated report  
(if applicable): 
Rapporteur’s contact person: 
Deadline for CHMP member’s 
comments: 
Assessor: 
Sustiva 
2/4 
P45 065 AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
I. 
ASSESSMENT 
Assessment 
Introduction 
combination ART for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in ART-naïve or -experienced patients 
The primary objectives were to monitor the safety and tolerability of efavirenz oral solution in 
aged 3 to 
16 years and weighing at least 10 kg. (22 lb.) who have failed or are intolerant to their current ART 
regimen, have plasma HIV-1 RNA>400 copies/mL and are able to take liquid medications but have 
difficulty swallowing capsules. 
This report covers the following post-authorisation commitments undertaken by the MAH: 
Fulfilment of the CHMP’s request to provide all existing data/information on the paediatric studies listed 
in a previous submission made under article 45of the Regulation 1901/2006, as amended, concerning the 
study MK-0831, Protocol 908: paediatric Expanded Access Program – Oral Solution. 
Study 908 (A Noncomparative, Open, Multisite study to Monitor the Safety and Tolerability of Efavirenz 
Oral Solution Given in Combination Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) in ART-naïve or - experienced HIV-1 
Infected Patients Age 3 to 16 Years Who Have Failed Therapy or Are Intolerant to Their Current ART 
Regimen.) was a noncomparative, open, multisite study to monitor the safety and tolerability of efavirenz 
oral solution given in combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) in ART-naïve or -experienced HIV-1 
infected patients age 3 to 16 years who have failed therapy or are intolerant to their current ART regimen. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Physical examinations (including vital signs and body weight) were to be performed at prestudy (within 
30 days prior to treatment) and at every clinic visit after study entry. Laboratory tests for 
inclusion/exclusion criteria are required to be done at prestudy. Safety laboratory tests of blood and urine 
are recommended to be done at every clinic visit after study entry. Routine clinic visits will be scheduled 
at Week 2, 4, and at two month intervals after entry into the study for the first 6 months and at every 3 
months for the rest of the duration of the study period to evaluate the status of the patient, drug compliance 
and to assess serious and study-specific reportable adverse experiences (see Section I.G.1.). A serum 
pregnancy test will be performed for females of childbearing potential within 30 days prior to entry into 
the study. Urine pregnancy tests will be performed on entry (Day 1) and at every clinic visit to rule out 
pregnancy. Patients who become pregnant must discontinue therapy with efavirenz. Additional physical 
examinations, laboratory tests, and other procedures (e.g., ECG, chest X ray, ophthalmologic examination) 
will be performed when clinically indicated as determined by the treating physician for the duration of the 
study. 
This Pediatric Expanded Access Program – Oral Solution (PEAP-OS) was anticipated to end when 
efavirenz oral solution would be approved and reimbursed in participating countries (unless terminated 
prematurely).  
Approximately 150 HIV-1 seropositive pediatric patients were to be enrolled in this PEAP-OS. Patients in 
this study must be between the age of 3 and 16 years and weighing at least 10 kg (22 lb.). The patients 
may be ART-naïve or -experienced. Patients must have HIV-1 RNA >400 copies/mL within 30 days of 
enrollment. Females of childbearing potential must have a negative serum pregnancy test 30 days prior to 
enrollment and negative urine pregnancy test prior to entry on Day 1. Efavirenz oral solution with 
concentration of 30 mg/mL will be dosed once daily according to weight (see table below).  
The study was terminated early and only 5 patients entered the study. Five patients, 3 in Colombia and 2 
in Portugal, participated in this study. The characteristics of these patients are listed in Table 1. 
Sustiva 
3/4 
P45 065 AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Four patients continued in the study till completion or trial termination at investigational site. One patient 
(AN 3003) discontinued due to a clinical AE (parotitis). 
Safety results 
Patient safety was assessed by the collection of serious and study-specific adverse events. Serious and 
study-specific adverse events were reported for 3 patients in the study. All these adverse events are listed 
in Table 2. One patient (AN 2) had a probably drug-related adverse event of exanthem. This adverse 
event was not serious and no action was taken with respect to the study drug. One patient had a serious 
adverse event of parotitis. The patient was hospitalized and discontinued from study drug. The adverse 
event was definitely not drug-related following the investigator assessment. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The study was prematurely terminated, and all the available data concerning the 5 enrolled subjects was 
submitted for assessment. These data does not indicate any new reason for concern regarding this 
formulation of the product. Of note, one of the subjects presented with stomatitis, which may be consistent 
with the potential for irritation of the oral mucosa which has been described for this formulation. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND FURTHER 
ACTION IF REQUIRED 
Overall Conclusion: 
II. 
  PAC fulfilled (all commitments fulfilled) - No further action required 
Sustiva 
4/4 
P45 065 AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
