18 December 2014 
EMA/133081/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Sutent 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms of 
the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: SUNITINIB 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000687/PSUV/0052 
Period covered by the PSUR:  1 May 2013 – 30 April 2014
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Sutent, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
Overall, based on the assessment of the cumulative and interval safety information available as of the 
data lock point for current PSUR period, the PRAC considers that the benefit-risk assessment for sunitinib 
in the approved treatment indication remains favourable. However, the PRAC considered that the MAH 
existing warning on QT interval prolongation required to be updated to recommend caution with use in 
patients who are taking medicinal products that can prolong QT interval in order to better minimize the 
important identified risk of Torsade de Points /QTc prolongation of sunitinib. Consequently, the warning in 
section 4.4 of the SmPC is updated. No changes to the package leaflet are warranted as the existing 
information is considered adequate. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding QT interval prolongation, the PRAC considered that changes 
to the product information were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Sutent, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance SUNITINIB is favourable subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
