13 December 2018 
EMA/170980/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): sunitinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002833/201804 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 May 2017 to 30 April 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for sunitinib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Twelve cases of aortic dissection and aneurysm with a possible causal relationship to sunitinib have been 
retrieved cumulatively. Based on the evidence from literature, case reports, pathophysiologic 
mechanisms considering also some cases occurring in patients without hypertension, the fatal outcome 
observed in 26 cases and overall the severity of the ADR, the product information should be updated to 
reflect the risk. 
A cumulative review of cases related to colitis retrieved 7 cases from clinical trials data and 82 cases from 
post-marketing for which a causal relationship between the event and sunitinib could not be excluded. 
Similarly, a search performed on EV database revealed a total of 81 cases (spontaneous and from studies) 
cumulatively reported. A disproportionality analysis used to evaluate the dataset revealed a positive 
RORs. Finally, colitis and inflammatory bowel disease are listed for other multi-targeted tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors with similar targets as sunitinib. 
As a result, section 4.4 and 4.8 of the Summary of Products Characteristics (SmPC) should be updated to 
add ‘aortic aneurysms and dissections’ to the list of adverse reactions with a frequency not known and to 
introduce a relevant warning.  In addition, section 4.8 of the SmPC should be updated to add the adverse 
reactions ‘colitis’ and ‘ischaemic colitis’ with a frequency uncommon. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for sunitinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing sunitinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/170980/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
