SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) is a sarcoma of mesenchymal origin. In nearly 95% of cases, 
the primary tumour site is located in the gastrointestinal tract, where the most common locations are 
the stomach (50–60%) and small bowel (20–30%).  Less frequently, GIST occurs in the large bowel 
(10%), esophagus (5%), and mesentery, omentum, or retroperitoneum (<10%)  
GIST,  estimated  to  represent  up  to  1%  of  all  GI  tumors,  is  the  most  common  mesenchymal 
malignancy of the GI tract with a yearly incidence of about 7-15 per million (rising with age). 
GIST often remains clinically silent until tumors reach a large size, when  mass effects, bleeding, or 
rupture may ensue.  GIST may also be discovered incidentally on computed tomography (CT) scan or 
during surgery performed for some other reason.  Metastatic disease is present at diagnosis in nearly 
half of patients with GIST, most commonly to the liver (65%) and peritoneum (21%), but also to the 
lymph  nodes,  bone  and  lungs.  After  radical  resection,  the  5-year  overall  survival  is  approximately 
50%, whereas for unresectable or metastatic GISTs, before treatment with imatinib became available, 
the median survival was estimated at 9 to 20 months.  
Over 90% of GISTs express KIT, the receptor for stem cell factor (SCF).  In the vast majority (over 
80%), KIT is the abnormal product of a mutated c-kit gene, and shows constitutive TK activity without 
the presence of the normally required ligand, resulting in abnormal cell proliferation and inhibition of 
apoptotic  cell  death.  Some  GISTs,  however,  appear  driven  by  the  activity  of  wild  type  KIT,  which 
may be inappropriately over-expressed, while 5% to 10% of GISTs are driven by mutated PDGFR-α.  
Surgery  is  the  standard  treatment  for  non-metastatic  GIST);  however,  recurrence  is  common,  with 
reported recurrence rates ranging from 44% to 80%. Recurrence is usually local, although about half 
of local recurrences are accompanied by liver metastases. 
Imatinib mesylate, an inhibitor of KIT, PDGFR, and the fusion protein bcr-abl, was the first effective 
non-surgical  treatment  for  GIST.  It  is  approved  for  the  treatment  of  KIT-positive  unresectable  or 
metastatic GIST in the EU.  A recently published, representative study, involving 946 GIST patients 
treated  with  imatinib  400  mg  either  once  or  twice  daily,  showed  a  complete  response  in  5%  of 
patients,  a  partial  response  in  47%,  and  stable  disease  in  32%  (median  follow-up  760  days).    There 
was no difference in response rates between the  daily and twice-daily dose groups, but progression-
free  survival  was  longer  with  the  higher  dose,  with  50%  of  patients  on  the  high  dose  experiencing 
progression by 30 months compared to 56% on the lower dose.   
Approximately  5%  of  patients  cannot  tolerate  imatinib  therapy,  and  another  15%  exhibit  primary 
resistance  and  fail  to  respond  to  treatment.  It  has  also  become  apparent  that  secondary  resistance, 
characterized  by  disease  progression  after  an  initial  objective  response,  develops  in  many  patients. 
Although  little  published  data  are  available  on  longer-term  follow-up  of  GIST  patients  treated  with 
imatinib, overall, treatment failure is already known to occur in approximately 70% of patients.   
Since  no  drug  other  than  imatinib  has  demonstrated  appreciable  efficacy  in  the  treatment  of  GIST, 
there remains an unmet medical need for patients who cannot tolerate imatinib, or who have tumors 
that  are  resistant  to,  or  become  resistant  to,  this  drug.    Sunitinib,  by  inhibiting  KIT  and  PGDFR,  is 
expected to exert direct anti-tumor effects in GIST. In addition, sunitinib may confer further benefit by 
inhibiting the angiogenesis necessary for tumor growth through its effects on VEGFR and PDGFR. 
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (MRCC) 
RCC, a malignancy originating from the tubular cells of the kidney, comprises 80% to 85% of all renal 
parenchymal  malignancies  reported  from  surgical  series.    Some  75%  to  85%  of  RCCs  are 
histologically classified as ‘clear cell’; these tumors tend to be very vascular, and typically metastasize 
to lung, bone, lymph nodes, and adrenal glands.  
1/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
Incidence  rates  for  RCC  vary  by  more  than  10-  to  20-fold  around  the  world,  with  higher  rates  in 
Western  countries  such  as  Scandinavia,  France,  Canada  and  the  US,  and  the  lowest  rates  in  Central 
and South America and Asia.   RCC is nearly twice as common among men than among women: for 
example, in the US in 2004, it is estimated that there were over 22 000 new cases in males (6% of all 
cancer diagnoses in males) and nearly 8000 deaths (3% of cancer deaths in males), compared to nearly 
14 000 new cases and nearly 5000 deaths among females. A number of etiological associations have 
been  described,  including  smoking,  obesity,  long-term  hemodialysis,  hypertension,  sickle-cell  trait, 
and genetic factors.  
Receptor  tyrosine  kinases  (RTK)  activity  appears  to  play  a  prominent  role  in  the  malignant 
transformation,  growth  and  metastasis  of  many  RCCs,  often  through  inactivation  of  the  VHL  gene. 
This tumour suppressor gene codes for a protein that is responsible for regulating the transcription of 
VEGF,  PDGF-B  and  a  number  of  other  hypoxia-inducible  proteins.  Through  deletion,  mutation  or 
methylation,  VHL  is  believed  to  be  inactivated  in  as  many  as  80%  of  sporadic  clear  cell  RCCs, 
resulting in overexpression of these ligands.  Inappropriately expressed VEGF and PDGF-B promote 
tumour  angiogenesis  and,  in  those  RCCs  which  also  express  VEGFR  and  PDGFR,  further  serve  as 
signals in a stimulatory autocrine loop.  
At  least  25  to  30%  of  patients  with  RCC  present  with  metastases.  MRCC,  based  on  1992-1999  US 
data, has a 5-year survival rate of only 9.1%. Treatment of MRCC has been generally disappointing, 
and in some countries the poor results of systemic therapy in MRCC has resulted in the acceptance of 
supportive care as standard therapeutic approach.   Many MRCC patients undergo nephrectomy, either 
for  palliation  of  local  symptoms,  or  because  this  may  improve  outcome  when  performed  prior  to 
cytokine therapy.  
The only systemic first-line treatments available for MRCC are cytokines, but their efficacy is limited, 
and no effective second-line alternatives are available for those who fail to respond or progress after 
an  initial  response.    Cytokine-based  therapies  include  interferon-α  (IFN-α).  interleukin-2  (IL-2)  and 
combinations of IL-2 and IFN-α. For patients who fail to respond to cytokine-based therapy or relapse 
after  an  initial  response  or  period  of  disease  stabilization,  treatment  options  are  very  limited  and 
generally ineffective, with rates of response to chemotherapy alone of less than 5%. Drug resistance 
may be related to the expression of the multidrug resistance transporter in proximal-tubule cells — the 
cells  from  which  clear-cell  and  papillary  renal-cell  carcinoma  may  originate.  Chemotherapy  may  be 
more  efficacious  for  advanced  non–clear-cell  renal-cell  carcinoma,  particularly  the  collecting-duct 
type.  
About the product 
Sunitinib is an oral, multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that targets and blocks the signaling 
pathways of multiple selected receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs).  Through competitive inhibition ATP 
binding  site,  sunitinib  inhibits  the  TK  activity  of  a  group  of  closely  related  RTKs,  all  of  which  are 
involved in various human malignancies: the vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR-1, 
-2, -3), the platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFR(cid:31)
(cid:31)), the stem cell factor receptor (KIT), 
CSF-1R, FLT-3, and RET.  
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
SUTENT is presented as hard capsules containing 12.5mg, 25.0mg and 50.0mg of sunitinib malate as 
active substance. The excipients used in the formulation of SUTENT are mannitol, povidone, 
croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. There are no novel excipients used in the formulation.  
SUTENT is administered via oral route and is packed in HDPE bottles of 30 capsules with a 
polypropylene closure with heat induction seal (HIS) liner. 
2/47 
©EMEA 2006 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
Sunitinib malate is designated chemically as (Z)-N-[2-(diethylamino) ethyl]-5-[(5-fluoro-2-oxo-1,2-
dihydro-3H-indol-3-ylidene)methyl]-2,4-dimethyl-1H-pyrrole-3-carboxamide(S)-2-hydrosuccinate 
and its structure is as follows: 
F
O
CH3
N
H
O
N
H
N
H
CH3
CH3
N
CH3
OH
.
HO2C
H
CO2H
Sunitinib is a yellow to orange powder soluble in acidic aqueous solutions (pH 1.2 – 6.8) at 25mg/ml. 
The solubility of sunitinib rapidly decreases at pH greater than 6.8. For this reason, sunitinib is 
classified as a low solubility compound according to the biopharmaceutical classification. Sunitinib is 
non-hygroscopic and the active moiety has no chiral centres, however the final substance is optically 
active due to the malate part of the molecule. Two different polymorphs are found during development 
studies by X-ray diffraction (PXRD). Form I is anhydrous, crystalline and non-hygroscopic with a 
typical peak melting point at approx. 205°C and is more stable than Form II at ambient conditions. 
The synthetic process produces Form I exclusively. Form II is highly disordered and hygroscopic and 
is not formed from the described synthesis/manufacturing process. 
The isomer resulting from the described method of synthesis is sunitinib in the Z-isomer form. The 
corresponding E-isomer is limited in the drug substance specifications by specific test method 
(HPLC). 
The dissociation constant (pKa) for sunitinib malate determined by potientiometric titration was found 
to be 8.95. 
The permeability of sunitinib malate using a Caco-2 cell model was found to be 13 x 10-6 cm/s, hence 
sunitinib malate is considered a low permeability compound.  
•  Manufacture 
Sunitinib malate is synthesized in 4 steps and 1 purification step. The established structure of sunitinib 
malate was in agreement with the method of synthesis, analytical and spectroscopic data. The 
molecular weight determined by mass spectroscopy was in agreement with the expected molecular 
weight. Definitive proof of structure was provided by X-ray crystallography.  
•  Specification 
The specifications of the active substance include visual inspection of the appearance, identity (FT-IR 
spectroscopy and HPLC – comparison between main peak in test chromatogram and reference 
standard as well as L-malic acid reference standard), assay, residue on ignition, heavy metals, particle 
size by Laser Diffraction Light method), residual solvents by GC-FDI and potential impurities 
(HPLC). 
The results obtained from thirteen batches of sunitinib malate manufactured using the proposed 
synthetic method showed that the active substance could be reproducibly manufactured. 
3/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The analytical methods used were sufficiently described and validated according to the ICH guideline 
on “Validation of Analytical Methods”. The methods were suitable to control the active substance on a 
routine basis. The acceptance criteria for specified, unidentified unspecified, unspecified and total 
impurities was established based on consideration of the levels of impurities present in batches of 
sunitinib and sunitinib malate used in toxicological and clinical studies. In addition, the level of 
impurities at release and stability data of batches of sunitinib malate was also taken in consideration 
when establishing the acceptance criteria.  
•  Stability 
Stability studies were performed on sunitinib malate stored in the proposed packaging, according to 
the ICH guideline. Stability data (12 months long term 25oC/60% RH; 6 months accelerated 
40oC/75%RH) was provided on three batches manufactured at Pfizer Kalamazoo. Stability data (3 
months long term and accelerated) was provided for one batch manufactured at Pfizer Cork Ltd. In 
addition, long-term data  (36 months at 25oC/60% RH) was also completed for one batch of active 
substance. The test parameters selected to evaluate the stability of the active substance were 
appearance, assay, water content, and degradation products. DSC and X-ray studies have also been 
used to evaluate changes in the physical form of the active substance.  
Photostability studies were carried out on one batch of sunitinib malate. The results showed that the 
active substance is not affected by exposure to light.  
The data provided is sufficient to confirm the proposed re-test period.  
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The L-malate salt was chosen based on the physicochemical properties as well as acceptable 
processing properties. 
Well known excipients were used in the preparation of the formulation, selected based on their 
suitability for use in a wet granulation process. The compatibility with the active substance was 
demonstrated with the results of the stability studies performed on the finished product. Mannitol is 
used as diluent, povidine as binder, croscaramellose sodium as disintegrant and magnesium stearate as 
lubricant. Gelatin, red iron oxide and titanium dioxide are excipients used for the orange capsule shell. 
Red iron oxide and yellow iron oxide are additional excipients used for the caramel capsule shell. 
Shellac, propylene glycol, sodium hydroxide, povidone and titanium dioxide are used in the printing 
ink. All excipients comply with the Ph. Eur. and the Certificate of Analysis have been provided.   
Three hard capsules for immediate release of sunitinib malate were developed at doses of 12.5 mg, 25 
mg and 50 mg of the free base. The qualitative composition of the three strengths is identical. A 
similar granule mix is used for the 25 mg and 50 mg strength capsules. 
The primary packaging used for sunitinib malate capsules is HDPE bottles with heat induction seal 
(HIS) and polypropylene closure.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the excipients in the sunitinib malate blend are of animal origin, exception being the gelatin 
used in the capsule shell which is obtained from bovine/limed bone. TSE CEP from the suppliers of 
the gelatin used in the manufacture of the capsule shell are provided. However, the CEP provided by 
one of the suppliers of the bovine gelatin is expired. The Applicant therefore commits to provide an 
updated CEP for the gelatin sourced from this supplier and clarify the measures taken in order to 
ensure that only gelatin from sources covered by a valid CEP is used in the manufacture of the gelatin 
capsules.  
4/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process for sunitinib malate capsules uses standard pharmaceutical equipment and 
unit operations.  
The manufacture of the finished product comprises (1) blending of the active substance with the 
excipients (2) wet granulation of the blend (3) drying of the granulation (4) milling (5) addition of 
final excipients and blend (6) capsule filling. 
Process parameter ranges are described for each manufacturing step. Process parameters that have a 
potential to affect the quality of sunitinib malate capsules were investigated. No critical steps or 
intermediates have been identified.  
Batch analysis was performed on a total of 23 batches. The data confirmed that the hard capsules can 
be manufactured reproducibly according to the finished product specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The product specifications include methods for appearance, identification (HPLC and UV), assay 
(HPLC), content uniformity (HPLC), water content, degradation products (HPLC) and dissolution. 
The acceptance criterion for the dissolution test is acceptable and has suitable discriminatory 
properties.   Therefore, satisfactory control of batch-to-batch consistency can be achieved for the 
finished product. Degradation products are controlled and the limits are justified by reference to 
stability studies.  
The drug product specifications have been justified and all methods of analysis have been described 
and adequately validated. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability data on 12 batches (3 primary batches of each strength and 1 batch from the supportive 
stability program for each strength) was provided. Nine primary batches were stored at 25oC/60% RH 
and 30oC/60% RH for 12 months and 40oC/75%RH for 6 months. Two batches (1 batch of 12.5mg and 
1 batch of 50mg capsules) from the supportive stability program were stored at 25oC/60% RH for 24 
months and one batch of 25 mg capsules was stored at the same conditions for 36 months. The 
parameters analysed were: appearance, assay, degradation products, dissolution, water content and 
microbiological integrity.  
Three validation batches (of each capsule strength) were produced at the proposed commercial 
manufacturing site. The data provided demonstrates equivalence between these validation batches and 
the primary stability batches.  
Based on the available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions, as stated in the 
SPC, are acceptable.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of test carried out indicate satisfactory consistency 
and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on 
the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
5/47 
©EMEA 2006 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Almost all pivotal non clinical studies were conducted with representative clinical grade material, in 
compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) with Quality Assurance documents included, and 
following  FDA,  OECD  and  Japanese  Ministry  of  Health  and  Welfare  guidelines  for  non  clinical 
laboratory studies. The nonclinical development of sunitinib was consistent  with the ICH guidelines 
including  M3  guideline  (Nonclinical  Safety  Studies  for  the  Conduct  of  Human  Clinical  Trials  for 
Pharmaceuticals), and ICH 7B (QT prolongation ). 
Pharmacology 
A  series  of  in  vitro  biochemical  kinase  assays  have  been  conducted  to  evaluate  sunitinib´s  potency 
against  intended  receptor  tyrosine  kinase  (RTK)  targets  as  well  as  to  determine  relative  selectivity 
against  unintended  RTKs.  The  in  vivo  efficacy  of  sunitinib  was  primarily  evaluated  in  a  xenograft 
tumour  model  where  human  and  rat  tumour  cell  lines  derived  from  various  different  tumour  types 
were  implanted  into  the  flanks  of  athymic  SCID  mice.  Oral  sunitinib  treatment  started  when  the 
tumours  were  established,  which  generally  was  considered  when  the  tumours  had  reached  a  size  of 
300-500 cm3. Studies were terminated when the tumours reached an average size of 1000 cm3 or when 
the  tumours  were  judged  to  adversely  affect  the  well-being  of  the  animals.  The  extent  of  RTK 
phosphorylation was determined by Western blotting. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In  vitro,  sunitinib  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  phosphorylation  of  the  receptor  tyrosine  kinases  (RTKs) 
VEGFR and PDGFR with Ki values in the nM range. Sunitinib inhibited VEGF-dependent endothelial 
cell  proliferation,  vascular  sprouting  and  tube  formation  (IC50  =  4-55  nM).  Similarly,  sunitinib 
inhibited  PDGF-induced  proliferation  of  NIH-3T3  cells  overexpressing  PDGFRα  or  PDGFRβ  with 
IC50  values  of  69  and  39 nM,  respectively.  In nude  athymic  mice  bearing  human  tumour  xenografs, 
sunitinib  demonstrated  both  time-  and  dose-dependent  inhibition  of  PDGFRβ  and  VEGFR2 
phosphorylation,  where  the  degree  and  duration  of  RTK  phosphorylation  increased  with  increasing 
dose.  Based  on  the  in  vivo  results,  the  combined  (sunitinib  and  SU012662)  plasma  concentration 
required to inhibit ligand-dependent phosphorylation of PDGFRβ and VEGFR2 is in the range of 50-
100 ng/mL or greater. When considering that approximately 95% of the sunitinib and SU012662 are 
protein-bound,  the  total  target  plasma  concentration  at  this  effective  dose  will  be  in  the  nanomolar 
range  (5-10  nM).  Consequently,  a  nice  correlation  is  seen  between  the  in  vitro  and  in  vivo 
experiments. Indeed, a median Cmax value of 104 ng/mL (sunitinib and SU012662) is reported in the 
clinical studies, which corresponds approximately to a free plasma concentration of 10 nM. Although 
a  bit  less  potent  than  the  parent  compound  (2  to  4-fold),  the  major  sunitinib  metabolite  SU012662 
inhibited  VEGF  and  PDGF-dependent  cell  proliferation  and  likely  contributes  to  pharmacologic 
activity against the intended targets.  
Sunitinib demonstrated concentration-dependent inhibition of wild-type KIT phosphorylation in stem 
cell factor (SCF)-stimulated NCI-H526 human small cell lung cancer cells in vitro with an IC50 value 
of approximately 1 to 10 nM. A similar response was observed in SCF-stimulated MO7E human acute 
myeloid leukemia cells in vitro with an IC50 of approximately 10 to 100 nM. The ability of sunitinib to 
inhibit  KIT  phosphorylation  was  evaluated  in  vivo  following  repeated  daily  PO  dosing  of  athymic 
mice  xenografted  with  NCI-H526  lung  tumour  cells.  Sunitinib  caused  a  near  complete  inhibition  of 
KIT phosphorylation in tumours analysed 4 hours (expected Cmax) following administration of 40 and 
80  mg/kg.  KIT  is  implicated  in  the  regulation  of  hair  pigmentation  and  this  effect  was  used  to 
investigate the dose-response relationship for sunitinib inhibition of KIT. Following daily PO dosing 
of C57BL/6 mice for 28 days, sunitinib treatment at 80 mg/kg resulted in whitening of newly regrown 
hair, 40 mg/kg resulted in moderate greying of coat hair whereas lower dose levels (5 and 20 mg/kg) 
had no discernable effect on hair colour. 
Sunitinib  displayed  affinity  for  RET  in  a  receptor  screen  (IC50  =  83  nM).  Sunitinib  inhibited 
autophosphorylation of a constitutively active form of the RET RTK in human medullary thyroid cells 
6/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
with an IC50 value of approximately 50 nM. Additionally, sunitinib inhibited thyroid cell proliferation 
with an IC50 value of approximately 50 nM. 
Sunitinib inhibited FLT-ligand dependent FLT3 phosphorylation in AML cell lines expressing wild-
type FLT3 with IC50 values of around 0.25 μM. Sunitinib potently inhibited constitutive proliferation 
of MV4;11 AML cells or FLT-ligand stimulated proliferation of OS-AML5 cells with IC50 values of 1 
to 10 nM. In contrast sunitinib displayed no growth inhibiting effect in RS4;11 AML cells expressing 
wild-type FLT3. The ability of PO sunitinib to inhibit FLT3 phosphorylation in vivo was evaluated in 
athymic mice bearing MV4;11 AML xenografts expressing mutated and constitutively active FLT3. A 
single oral dose (20  mg/kg) completely inhibited FLT3 phosphorylation within 1 hour (drug plasma 
concentration = 277 ng/mL) and the effect lasted 16 hours following treatment (1 ng/mL). 
Sunitinib  inhibited  constitutively  active  CSF-1R  phosphorylation  in  NIH3T3  cells  expressing  high 
levels  of  CSF-1R  with  an  IC50  value  between  50  and  100  nM.  Treatment  caused  a  time  and  dose-
dependent reduction in murine CSF-dependent development of murine osteoclasts in vitro.  
Sunitinib was evaluated in a broad array of subcutaneous human tumour xenograft models that were 
derived  from  cell  lines  isolated  from  various  solid  tumour  types  including  breast,  lung,  colorectal, 
melanoma, renal, glioblastoma, and others. Daily oral administration of sunitinib was demonstrated to 
result in significant growth inhibition of established tumours (100-550 mm3) at well-tolerated doses in 
each  xenograft  model.  Moreover,  sunitinib  caused  regression  of  well-established  tumours  (250-550 
mm3) in several  models including HT-29 and Colo205 colorectal and 786-O renal xenograft models 
(Figure  1).  In  the  Colo205  colorectal  xenograft  model,  a  tumour  regression  of  13%  and  38%  was 
observed  following  35  days  of  treatment  with  40  and  80  mg/kg  sunitinib,  respectively.  In  another 
colorectal  (HT-29)  xenograft  experiment,  treatment  with  40  mg/kg  sunitinib  caused  a  tumour 
regression  of  62%  at  day  74  of  treatment.  Similarly,  renal  786-0  tumour  regression  responses  of  46 
and 60% were reported following treatment with 40 and 80 mg/kg sunitinib, respectively.  
Moreover, the efficacy of sunitinib was evaluated in tumour delay models. Following 64-days of PO 
sunitinib treatment (40 mg/kg/day), an increased survival (6/9) of athymic nude mice xenografted with 
MX-1  human  breast  carcinoma  fragments  was  seen,  when  compared  to  vehicle  treated  mice  (0/9) 
(animals were euthanized when the neoplasm reached a weight of 1.5 g). Sunitinib 40 mg/kg/day PO 
was  efficient  and  well-tolerated  in  nude  mice  bearing  LS174T  human  colon  carcinomas  with  a 
statistically significant increase in survivors (4/5) at day 80. In mice bearing Lewis lung carcinomas, 
10 mg/kg/day sunitinib produced an inhibition of tumour growth of 47%, while the higher doses levels 
20,  40  and  80  mg/kg/day  all  inhibited  tumour  growth  by  71-78%  (day  16).  Additionally,  sunitinib 
demonstrated  anti-tumour  efficacy  in  several  other  cancer  models  including  transgenic  models,  a 
carcinogen-induced model, a leukaemia model and in experimental metastasis models.   
In several tumour models sunitinib demonstrated a dose-dependent effect. 40 mg/kg/day was found to 
be the optimal dose. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Sunitinib  was  evaluated  in  a  radioligand  binding  screening  assay  to  determine  biochemical  and/or 
cellular effects on 69 standard receptors, enzymes, or ion channels. Sunitinib inhibited the radioligand 
binding to several secondary targets with Ki or IC50 values in the μM concentration range. The most 
potent  in  vitro  activity  was  observed  in  a  biochemical  assay,  where  sunitinib  inhibited  the  human 
serotonin  5-HT2A  radioligand  binding  with  a  Ki  of  26.2  nM.  In  follow-up  experiments  sunitinib 
demonstrated  inhibition  of  serotonin  reuptake  in  a  cellular  assay  with  an  IC50  of  293  nM,  and  in  a 
tissue assay, sunitinib displayed functional antagonist properties on the serotonin 5HT2A receptor, with 
an IC50 of 28.4 μM. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The  effect  of  10-1000  nM  sunitinib  on  cloned  human  hERG  channels  was  investigated  in  stably 
transfected  HEK293  cells  using  electrophysiology  (n=4-5).  A  concentration-dependent  inhibitory 
effect on the hERG channel was observed with an IC50 value of 266 nM. At a clinically relevant dose 
(10  nM),  the  hERG  current  was  reduced  by  17%.    Sunitinib  10-6  M  increased  the  action  potential 
duration in canine Purkinje fibre cells, whereas no effect was observed at lower concentrations. The 
7/47 
©EMEA 2006 
major sunitinib metabolite SU012662 was a very weak hERG channel inhibitor with an IC50 value of 
4.1 μM.  
No meaningful effects on heart rate, body temperature or locomotor activity were noted at single PO 
administration  of  5,  15,  50,  or  150  mg/kg  sunitinib  tested  dose.  At  both  50  and  150  mg/kg,  a  dose-
related increase in the arterial blood pressure was observed. A dose-related prolongation of the QTc-
interval  was  observed  with  peak  increases  of  46  ms  and  66  ms  in  the  50  and  150  mg/kg  group, 
respectively. The NOAEL for cardiovascular effects is 15 mg/kg.  
General  behaviour  (Irwin’s  test)  and  body  temperature  were  evaluated  in  rats  following  PO 
administration  of  20,  100,  or  500  mg/kg  sunitinib  (n=5/sex).  NOAEL  for  behavioural  effects  and 
effects on body temperature is set at 500 mg/kg which corresponds to a safety margin of 65 (based on 
allometry). 
Potential effects on the respiratory function was evaluated up to 4 hours following the administration 
of a 20, 100 or 500 mg/kg sunitinib to conscious unrestrained rats. NOAEL for respiratory effects is 
500 mg/kg. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  pharmacology  studies  addressing  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  that  are  relevant  to  the 
present submission have been conducted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Methods 
Following an extraction or protein precipitation step, plasma concentrations of sunitinib and its major 
metabolite SU012662 were determined by either liquid chromatography combined with tandem mass 
spectrometry  detection  (LC/MS/MS)  or  by  high-performance  liquid  chromatography  followed  by 
tandem  mass  spectrometry  detection  (HPLC/MS/MS).  Validation  reports  were  provided  for  the 
quantification  in  rat,  dog  and  monkey  plasma.  Sunitinib  and  SU012662  are  photosensitive  when  in 
solution. 
•  Absorption  
Plasma absorption was investigated following single dose PO and IV administration to nude mice, rat, 
dog  and  monkey.  No  statistically  significant  differences  in  sunitinib  plasma  exposure  was  observed 
between fasted and fed monkeys following single PO dosing. 
Generally, the sunitinib and SU012662 plasma exposure (AUC and Cmax) was higher at the end of a 
PO repeated-dosing period than on Day 1, indicating accumulation of sunitinib in rats and monkeys 
after multiple dosing. In rats, the increases in Cmax or AUC were generally greater than proportional to 
the increase in dose level. There were no consistent gender differences in relation to plasma exposure 
in rats, although female rats often had higher parent drug plasma exposure and lower plasma exposure 
of SU012662 than the male rats. No gender differences were apparent in the monkey with respect to 
drug  exposure.  In  monkeys,  the  SU012662  to  parent  compound  plasma  AUC  ratio  was  around  0.5, 
while it appeared gender-specific in rats with ratios around 5 and 2 in males and females, respectively.   
Pharmacokinetic sunitinib and SU012662 plasma data following IV infusion. 
Study ID 
/Species 
Nude 
mouse/  
PDM-030 
Rat/  
PDM-033 
Rat/  
Route 
N 
Dose 
mg/kg 
AUC 
ng*h/mL 
t½, el 
h 
Vd 
L/kg 
Cls 
mL/(min*kg) 
IV 
4 ♀ 
IV 
IV 
3-4 ♂ 
3b
Sunitinib 
195 
2451 
417 
2334 
7425 
998 
1 
10 
1 
4 
8 
2 
1.6 
1.3 
1.9 
2.1 
2.3 
2.5 
8.6 
7.6 
9.3 
5.5 
3.9 
8.8 
86 
68 
55 
30 
19 
40 
8/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
PDM-034 
Rat/  
PDM-035 
Dog/ 
PDM-
036a
Monkey/ 
PDM-064 
Rat/  
PDM-033 
Monkey/ 
PDM-064 
IV 
IV 
IV 
IV 
IV 
4 ♂ 
3b
3 ♂ 
4 ♂ 
3 ♂ 
5 
18832 
4.8 
1.8 
1.25 
515 
6.1 
21 
3 
4 
3 
2018 
14.9 
21.1 
SU012662 
6723 
814 
4.4 
119 
ND 
ND 
4.6 
41 
25 
ND 
ND 
Abbreviations: NA: Not Applicable. ND: Not Determined. BLQ: Below the limit of quantification 
a : The vehicle was a Cremophor-based formulation 
b :  No data on the sex 
•  Distribution 
In the concentration range 0.25 to 10 μM, sunitinib plasma protein binding was 98% in rat but 95% in 
monkey, dog and man. In athymic nude mice, plasma protein binding substituted 92% at 0.25 μM and 
95%  at  1  and  10  μM  (PDM-060).  Plasma  protein  binding  of  the  metabolite  SU012662  was  around 
98% in rat while lower binding percentages were seen in plasma from humans (90%), albino mouse 
(95%), dog (86%) and monkey (86%) (PDM-061). Binding of the monkey-specific metabolite M11 to 
plasma  proteins  was  approximately  97%,  98%  and  99%  in  monkey,  rat  and  human  plasma, 
respectively (PDM-039).   
Sunitinib partitioned into red blood cells and the in vitro partition coefficients were 1.6, 1.4 and 4.1 in 
rat,  human  and  monkey  blood,  respectively  (PDM-040).  In  vivo,  the  sunitinib  partition  coefficients 
were in the range of 1.5 to 2.2 in mice and 0.5 to 1.2 in rats (PDM-037). Consequently, a discrepancy 
was  seen  with  respect  to  the  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  rat  blood  partition  data.  In  vivo,  the  metabolite 
SU012662 preferentially partitioned into red blood cells in mice but not in rats. 
Sunitinib rapidly penetrated into the brain and reached brain tissue concentrations 7-fold greater than 
the plasma level 5 minutes post IV dosing of mice. Despite this high partitioning brain levels quickly 
decreased, thus 75% of the sunitinib was cleared from the brain 60 min following IV administration 
(PDM-095). 
The tissue distribution of radiolabelled sunitinib was investigated using whole body autoradiography 
following  oral  dosing  (15  mg/kg  free  base)  of  albino  and  pigmented  rats  (PDM-056).  Sunitinib 
distributed to all sampled tissues and maximal tissue concentrations were seen at the first time point (3 
h).  There  was  a  tendency  for  higher  tissue  concentrations  in  females  than  males.  In  both  genders, 
sunitinib  tissue  levels  were  either  very  low  or  nondetectable  72  hours  following  dosing.  Sunitinib 
displays  affinity  for  pigmented  tissues  (melanin)  since  high  concentrations  were  detected  in  the  eye 
and uveal of pigmented rats even 336 hours following sunitinib administration.  
Female monkeys were repeatedly administered 6 or 12 mg/kg/day sunitinib for 8 weeks followed by 
recovery,  or  for  two  cycles  of  4-week  daily  drug  treatment  and  a  2-week  recovery  (schedule  4/2) 
(PDM-057).  At  24  hours  post  last  dose,  the  combined  sunitinib  and  SU012662  concentrations  (C24, 
tissue) in adrenal glands, bone marrow, pancreas, kidney, liver and brown fat were 13-308-fold higher 
than  plasma  concentrations  (C24,  plasma)  for  both  the  6  and  12  mg/kg/day  group.  White  fat 
concentrations were 2- to 14-fold of C24,  plasma, while the ratios in brain were close to unity (1- to 3-
fold). At two weeks after the last dose, the tissue concentrations were less than 1-5% of C24, tissue.  
•  Metabolism 
9/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
After IV and PO administration of  14C-SU010398 (sunitinib malate salt) to rats, the sum of AUC of 
sunitinib and SU012662 accounted for 88-99% of plasma radioactivity AUC, indicating the absence of 
other  significant  metabolites  in  circulating  plasma  (PDM-055).  However,  after  PO  dosing  of  14C-
SU010398 (salt form) to male and female monkeys, only intact drug and SU012662 were found as the 
major drug-related compounds in systemic circulation. The sum of AUC of sunitinib and SU012662 in 
plasma accounted for 31-42% of plasma radioactivity AUC (PDM-054).  
In  human  liver  microsomes,  SU014335  (M3)  was  the  major  SU012662  metabolite  (PDM-050).  The 
formation of SU012662 from sunitinib was faster than the deethylation of SU012662 to SU014335 at 
all substrate concentrations tested. N-deethylation of sunitinib to its major metabolite SU012662 was 
catalysed by CYP3A4 in human liver microsomes (PDM-051). In vitro formation of SU012662 was 
catalysed  by  flavin-containing  monooxygenases  in  rat  and  dog  liver  microsomes  (PDM-049).  In 
human  hepatic  microsomes,  the  metabolism  of  SU012662  was  primarily  catalysed  by  CYP3A4,  but 
CYP1A2 may have contributed (PDM-050). 
Sunitinib was detected in rat bile along with its phase I and phase II metabolites. Moreover, sunitinib, 
SU012662 (M1) and SU012487 (M2E) were detected at high levels in rat urine. In both rat bile and 
urine,  SU012662  was  the  major  metabolite  regardless  of  the  route  of  sunitinib  administration. 
Similarly,  sunitinib  was  detected  in  all  monkey  urine  samples  and  accounted  for  3-8%  while 
SU012662  was  the  major  metabolite  (36-54%).  In  humans,  sunitinib  was  excreted  primarily  as 
unchanged  drug  up  to  72  hours  post-dose  while  SU012662  and  SU012487  were  detected  at  lower 
levels. 
•  Excretion 
In  rats,  the  amounts  of  radioactivity  recovered  (as  %  of  dose)  over  72  hours  in  urine  and  faeces, 
respectively, were 9% and 77% (IV), 9% and 71% (PO) in female rats, and 9% and 75% in male rats 
(PO).  The  mean  total  recovery  of  all  groups  was  approximately  82-87%  (PDM-055).  Drug-related 
radioactivity was excreted in bile in rats, but enterohepatic recirculation was not observed. In bile duct 
cannulated rats, 43% and 39% of the dose were excreted in bile and faeces, respectively, with a total 
recovery  of  96%  by  48  hours  (PDM-070).  In  monkeys,  the  amounts  of  radioactivity  recovered  over 
336 hours in urine and faeces, respectively, were 5% and 87% in male monkeys, and 6% and 84% in 
female  monkeys.    The  mean  total  recovery,  including  cage  washing,  was  approximately  91-94% 
(PDM-054). 
Suntinib-related  radioactivity  had  a  higher  affinity  for  the  milk  than  the  plasma  at  all  time  point 
following PO administration of 20 mg/kg 14C-SU01398 (sunitinib malate salt) to lactating rats. 
•  Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies 
Sunitinib  inhibited  the  CYP3A4-catalysed  1’-hydroxylation  of  midazolam  by  human  hepatic 
microsomes with IC50 values ranging from 19 to 56 μM. The corresponding IC50 value for SU012662 
was higher than 200 μM (PDM-052). 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Exploratory acute oral toxicity studies were conducted in mice and dogs, while rats and monkeys were 
selected as the nonclinical animal models for full development. All animals were observed for clinical 
signs and mortality daily for up to 14 days, body weights were recorded weekly, and selected clinical 
laboratory parameters were measured.  In studies with terminal endpoints, all animals were examined 
for  gross  pathologic  changes  at  necropsy  and  selected  tissues  were  examined  histopathologically. 
Results are summarised in the table below: 
Single dose toxicity studies 
10/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Study 
ID/ 
GLP 
status 
E-
002059 
Non-
GLP 
Species/ 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
Dose (mg/kg) 
/Route 
Approx. lethal 
dose / observed 
max non-lethal 
dose  
Major findings 
mice  
female CD-1  
(5/group) 
50, 150, 300, 
500 
oral gavage 
NOAEL > 500   No-drug related changes 
2000-
0184 
non-GLP 
dogs 
Male/female 
Beagle 
(1/sex /group) 
7039-152 
non-GLP 
Monkeys 
Female 
(2) 
E-
002066 
nonGLP 
rats  
Sprague 
Dawley  
Male/female 
(4/sex/group) 
Dose-escalating
50, 250, 500 
oral 
Oral followed 
by 
Intravenous 
50 / 2 
50, 150, 300, 
500 
oral 
MNLD > 500  
No mortality 
Emesis  in  all  animals  on  the  day  of  treatment, 
diarrhea,  mild  hematology  changes  (increase  in 
platelet and fibrinogen) at the highest dose 
No mortality and clinical signs were observed 
MNLD > 500  
No treatment related deaths* 
Hypoactivity  and  slight  decrease  in  body  weight 
at 500 mg/kg 
2000-
0314 
GLP 
Cynomolgus 
monkeys 
(2/sex/group) 
Dose-escalating
50, 150, 300, 
600, 1200 
(oral) 
MNLD>1200 
* two accidental deaths due to malintubation. 
No mortality. Emesis in all animals on the day of 
treatment,  diarrhea  and  decreased  food  intake, 
decrease  in  body  weight,  hematolgy  changes 
(decrease in WBC counts, increase in fibrinogen, 
increase  in  AST,  ALT,  bilirubin,  glucose,  LDH, 
CK,  HBDH)    at  doses  >300  mg/kg.  Minimal 
decrease in zymogen granules in the acinar cells 
of the pancreas at histological examination (only 
one female) 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The pivotal repeat-dose toxicology studies were performed in rats and monkeys. The studies included 
an oral repeat-dose study of three months duration and a study applying 5 to 8 treatment cycles of 28 
days  duration  separated  by  a  recovery  period  of  one  week.  Recovery  was  addressed  in  the  pivotal 
studies. In the clinical setting, sunitinib is taken daily for 28 days followed by a 2-week rest period. 
Mortalities were observed in rats and monkeys during the course of the repeat-dose studies. 
In  both  rats  and  monkeys,  bone  marrow  hypocellularity  (erythroid  and  lymphoid  cell  lineages), 
anaemia  and  lymphoid  depletion  of  thymus,  spleen  and  lymph  nodes  were  observed  at  clinically 
relevant  plasma  exposures.  Moreover,  secondary  infections  were  observed  in  monkeys  treated  daily 
for approximately two months. In a mechanistic study, sunitinib treatment significantly decreased the 
percent  and  numbers  of  rat  bone  marrow  cells  in  the  S-G2/M  synthesis/tetraploidy  phase of  the  cell 
cycle.  At  the  end  of  the  recovery  period,  bone  marrow  hypocellularity  was  resolved  in  monkeys 
exposed  to  clinically  relevant  drug  (sunitinib  and  SU012662)  levels  when  treated  according  to  the 
clinical 4/2 schedule. Decreased neutrophil and platelet counts of grade 3 and 4 severity were reported 
in patients thus complete blood counts are performed at the beginning of each treatment cycle. 
Adrenal  gland  haemorrhage  was  observed  in  both  rats  and  monkeys  at  clinically  relevant  plasma 
exposures (AUC). Additionally, necrosis, fibrosis  and blood-filled cysts were observed in rats along 
with decreased corticosterone and aldosterone levels. With exception of the necrotic lesions observed 
in  the  rat,  the  adrenal  findings  were  reversible  within  approximately  6  weeks.  In  monkeys  treated 
according to the 4/2 schedule, adrenal gland haemorrhage was the only residual finding at the end of 
the  two-week  recovery  period.  During  the  clinical  trials  (safety  data,  CT/MRI  scanning  and  ACTH 
stimulation test), where only 1 subject out of 1400 experienced adrenal gland abnormality. 
11/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
In repeat-dose studies performed in monkeys, treatment caused a modest decrease in heart rate and in 
a  single  study  sunitinib  treatment  caused  a  decrease  in  cardiac  preload  and  contractility.  In  a 
mechanistic study, QT-prolongation and compromised ventricular function were observed at 5-8 times  
the  clinical  exposure  level.  No  effect  on  ECG  parameters  was  observed  in  the  repeat-dose  toxicity 
studies conducted in monkeys or in the clinic. Hypertension, on the other hand, was very common in 
the clinic.  
Thickening  of  the  epiphyseal  cartilage  (physeal  dysplasia)  was  consistently  observed  in  rats  and 
monkeys, respectively, at clinically relevant plasma exposures. This effect was reversible within two 
weeks in monkeys treated according to the 4/2 schedule.  
Degranulation of pancreatic acini occurred in both rats and monkeys without safety margin. In some 
cases  also  pancreatic  inflammation  was  observed  in  the  rat.  In  the  clinical  trials,  two  subjects  have 
been reported with pancreatitis. Moreover, elevations in amylase and lipase were observed at greater 
frequency in the sunitinib-treated patients when compared to placebo patients. 
A consistent finding in rats and monkeys was an increase in liver enzymes (ALT, AST), indicating a 
liver effect. Moreover, an increased urea and a reduced albumin plasma level were consistently seen in 
rats.  However,  the  increase  in  liver  enzymes  was  only  higher  than  2-fold  in  the  high-dose  groups 
following  approximately  three  months  of  repeated  dosing  in  which  case  it  occurred  at  a  rat/human 
exposure (AUC) multiple of 5.5 and 20 in monkeys and rats, respectively.  
Following  three  months  of  repeated  dosing  of  rats,  pathological  changes  were  observed  in  the  bile 
ducts i.e. bile duct dilatation, inflammation, hyperplasia and necrosis. Overall, the bile duct changes 
occurred only in one species and at high exposure multiples when the animals were allowed a week 
recovery in between the treatment cycles. 
Degenerative  changes  of  corpora  lutea  but  also  decreased  uterus,  ovary  and  prostate  weight  were 
observed  at  clinically  relevant  plasma  concentrations  in  rats  and  monkeys  were.  Following  three 
months treatment of monkeys, the reduced ovary and uterus weights were not reversed at the end of a 
6-week  recovery  period.  At  high  dose  levels,  a  wide  range  of  effects  were  seen  in  the  reproductive 
systems, which were not fully recovered following a 6-weeks treatment-free period.  
Teeth  caries  and  broken  incisors  was  a  common  finding  in  treated  rats.  In  rats,  incisors  erupt 
continuously.  Similarly,  bloody  gums,  oral  cavity  and  tongue  necrosis  were  reported  in  monkeys. 
Moreover,  diarrhea,  body  weight  loss  and  acinar  hypertrophy  in  the  salivary  glands  were  common 
findings even at low dose levels. 
Yellow  discolouration  of  fur,  skin,  internal  organs  and  urine  was  observed.  Similarly,  yellow 
discolouration of the skin is a common adverse effect in patients. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Sunitinib  did  not  induce  reverse  mutations  in  selected  strains  of  Salmonella  typhimurium  and 
Escherichia coli. Treatment of human lymphocytes caused a decrease in the mitotic index following 
phytohemagglutinin stimulation starting from approximately 1 μg/mL. No increase in the incidence of 
chromosomal aberrations was observed in the concentration range tested, however, sunitinib induced 
numerical  aberrations  (polyploidy)  in  cultured  lymphocytes  at  10-20  μg/mL  with  and  without 
metabolic  activation.  Although  sunitinib  induced  evidence  of  toxicity  and  mortality  in  rats 
administered  1500  mg/kg  (high-dose  group),  no  statistically  significant  increase  in  micronucleated 
polychromatic erythrocytes was observed. As evidenced in the PO distribution studies, sunitinib does 
reach the bone marrow in rats. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies using sunitib have not been performed. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
An  overview  of  the  conducted  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  is  given  in  the  table 
below. 
12/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
Study type/ 
Study ID / 
GLP 
Species; 
Number sex/ 
group 
Route;dose 
(mg/kg free 
base) 
Dosing 
period 
Major findings 
NOAEL  
(mg/kg) & 
AUCsunitinib & 
SU012662  
Dose-range studies 
Embryo-fœtal 
development/ 
2002-0254/No 
Embryo-fœtal 
development/ 
2002-0613/No 
Pivotal studies 
Male fertility/ 
2003-
0370/Yes 
Female 
fertility & 
early 
embryonic 
development/ 
2003-
0370/Yes 
Embryo-fœtal 
development/ 
2003-
0372/Yes 
Rat; 
8 ♀/group 
PO; 1, 5, 15, 
30 
 GD 6 - GD 
12 
Rabbit; 
6 ♀/group 
PO; 0.5, 1, 5, 
20 
GD 7 - GD 
20 
↑litter loss 
↓foetal weight,  
foetal malformation 
↑litter loss 
↑resorptions, ↑post-
implantation loss, 
foetal malformation 
1 
(910 ng*h/mL) 
0.5 
(288 ng*h/mL) 
Rat; 
22 ♂/group 
PO; 
1, 3, 10 
Rat; 
22 ♀/group 
PO; 
0.5, 1.5, 5 
58 Days 
prior to 
mating - 
sacrifice 
14 Days 
prior to 
mating - 
GD7 
       Rat; 
22 ♀/group 
PO; 
0.3, 1.5, 3, 5 
GD 6 – GD 
17 
None 
10  
(49710 
ng*h/mL) 
Fertility: None 
Embryonic: ↑ dead 
embryos, ↑pre- and 
post-implantation 
loss  
Fertility: 5  
(9800 ng*h/mL) 
Embryonic: 1.5 
(1667 ng*h/mL) 
↑litter loss, 
↓live foetuses, 
↓foetal weight, 
↑resorptions, 
↑postimplantation 
loss, 
skeletal 
malformations 
F0: 5  
(10,600 
ng*h/mL) 
F1: 3 
(Maternal AUC: 
4430 ng*h/mL) 
GD, gestation day 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
In the male fertility study, rats were PO administered 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg sunitinib (free base) 58 days 
prior to mating with untreated females. Four males in the high-dose group were either found dead or 
euthanised during the pre-treatment period. Moreover, other signs of a toxic reaction in the high-dose 
males were observed in the form of clinical signs and decreases in body weight and food consumption. 
Sperm morphology, concentration, and motility were unaffected by treatment. At necropsy, two cases 
of  small  seminal  vesicles  and  a  case  of  flaccid  testes  were  detected  in  high-dose  males.  Potential 
effects on female fertility was investigated by treating the females with 0.5, 1.5 and 5 mg/kg sunitinib 
14 days prior to mating with untreated males. No effects on body weight, food consumption, oestrous 
cycle, copulation or fertility data were observed.  
Female  rats  were  treated  with  0.5,  1.5  and  5  mg/kg  PO  sunitinib  until  Gestation  Day  (GD)  7. 
Subsequently, the females were sacrificed and necropsied on GD 14. Treatment-related findings were 
made  in  the  5  mg/kg  treatment  group,  consisting  of  increases  in  the  mean  number  of  corpora  lutea, 
mean  number  of  dead  embryos  (foetuses),  and  mean  percent  pre-  and  post-implantation  loss  (2003-
0370). 
Embryo-foetal development 
In a non-GLP rat dose-range finding study, dams were treated with 1, 5, 15 and 30 mg/kg sunitinib 
(free base) at GD 6 through GD 12. The dams were sacrificed on GD 20 and a caesarean section was 
subsequently performed. Maternal toxicity was evident in the 15 and 30 mg/kg treatment groups along 
13/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with two cases of mortality in the 30 mg/kg group. Total litter loss was observed in 3 of 8 litters in the 
5 mg/kg group and in all litters in the higher dose groups. Corresponding decreases in gravid uterine 
weights and increases in post-implantation loss were noted. A reduction in mean foetal body weights 
was seen in the 5 mg/kg group. Foetal malformations (2 cases of acephalostomia in 1 litter) occurred 
with  a  NOAEL  of  1  mg/kg.  Consequently,  the  NOAEL  for  embryo  effects  is  below  clinical  plasma 
exposure levels. 
Rabbit does were PO treated with 0.5, 1, 5 and 20 mg/kg sunitinib on GD 7 through 20 as a part of a 
dose-range  finding  study. The  high dose  was  not  tolerated  since  the  does  were  either  found  dead  or 
euthanized on GD 14 or 15. Complete litter loss was observed in 4 of 6 does in the 5 mg/kg group. 
Increases  in  the  number  of  resorptions  (early  and  total)  and  post-implantation  losses  were  detected, 
accompanied  by  reductions  in  uterine  weights  and  the  number  of  live  foetuses.  Treatment-related 
malformations were observed in both the 1 and 5 mg/kg dose groups. One foetus in the 5 mg/kg group 
had both a cleft lip and a cleft palate, while another foetus in the same litter was observed with a cleft 
lip.  Moreover,  one  foetus  in  the  1  mg/kg  group  was  observed  with  a  cleft  lip.  There  was  no  safety 
margin with respect to malformations since the malformation seen in the 1 mg/kg group occurred at 
approximately ¼ of the clinical plasma exposure level (AUC). 
In the pivotal rat embryo-foetal study, the dams were treated with 0.3 to 5 mg/kg sunitinib at GDs 6 to 
17.  Caesarean  section  was  performed  on  GD  21.  Treatment-related  embryo-foetal  mortality  was 
evident  at  5  mg/kg  by  significant  reductions  in  the  number  of  live  foetuses,  increased  numbers  of 
resorptions  (early  and  total),  and  corresponding  increased  post-implantation  loss.  In  addition,  total 
litter loss (complete reorption) occurred in 8 of 28 of the pregnant females at this dose. Furthermore, 
foetal body weight was reduced. Skeletal malformations were observed in 26.5% of foetuses (55% of 
litters)  in  the  5  mg/kg  dose-group.  The  malformations  consisted  of  thoracic  and  lumbar  vertebral 
anomalies i.e. hemi centric, misaligned, and absent vertebral centra and/or arches. Moreover, skeletal 
variations characterized as decreased ossification was detected in the 5 mg/kg dose group along with a 
single  case  in  the  3  mg/kg  group.  The  NOAEL  for  the  embryo-foetal  effects  was  3  mg/kg 
corresponding  to  an  AUC  based  safety  margin  of  2.3.  Body  weight  decrease  and  reduced  gravid 
uterine weight was seen in the dams in  the 5 mg/kg  group and is attributed to the foetal loss at this 
dose level.  
•  Local tolerance  
No dermal irritation was observed in three female rabbits exposed to 500 mg sunitinib for 4 hours via 
a  patch  (2000-0508).  One  hour  following  ocular  administration  of  100  mg  sunitinib  to  three  female 
rabbits slight conjunctival redness (3/3) and slight conjunctival oedema (2/3) were observed in the test 
animals.  Conjunctival  redness  was  still  detected  in  two  of  animals  24  hours  following  ocular 
administration (2000-0509). 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Phototoxicity 
The UV absorption coefficient for sunitinib is 4.4 x 105 L mol-1 cm-1 at pH 7 and sunitinib enters the 
skin  via  systemic  circulation  and  binds  to  melanin,  thus  photosafety  is  required  as  described  in 
CPMP/SWP/398/01.  As  recommended  in  the  guideline,  the  phototoxic  potential  of  sunitinib  was 
determined in the 3T3 neutral red uptake phototoxicity assay. A photo irritation factor of 1.995 and a 
mean photo effect of 0.042 were derived when testing sunitinib concentrations up to 8 mg/mL in the 
presence or absence of UVA light.  
Wound healing
Sunitinib’s potential effect on wound healing was evaluated in female SKH1 mice PO administered 40 
and  80  mg/kg  for  up  to  five  consecutive  weeks  (n=4-10).  On  day  six,  a  full-thickness  incision  was 
made on the back of all mice, which then were sealed with nylon sutures. Subsequently, the strength of 
the healed wounds was evaluated on Days 13, 20, and 34. Mice treated with 40 mg/kg/day had wound 
tensile strength comparable to control, at all time points evaluated. Transient treatment-related effects 
were observed in mice treated with 80 mg/kg/day, corresponding to a 40% decrease in wound tensile 
strength on Day 20 (ex5144, non-GLP). Consequently, the NOAEL for wound healing effects in mice 
is 40 mg/kg/day. At treatment Day 20, combined sunitinib and SU012662 plasma exposure (Cmax) in 
this dose group was 1792 ng/mL, which corresponds to 16 times the clinical Cmax.  
14/47 
©EMEA 2006 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Based  on  the  estimated  value  of  predicted  environmental  concentration  (PEC  surface  water)  for 
SUTENTof 0.38 µg/L  phase II Environmental Effect Analysis has been performed. Both the PEC and 
the  revised  PEC  are  approximately  2  orders  of  magnitude  lower  than  the  lowest  no  observed  effect 
concentration (NOEC) determined under the test conditions for various species tested. The PEC/PNEC 
surfacewater is determined to be 0.04.  
•  Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
In vitro data showed that Sunitinib potently inhibited KIT phosphorylation in cells expressing exon 11 
mutations whereas a lower affinity was observed toward exon 9 mutants. Patients with primary KIT 
exon  11  mutations  appear  to  be  less  likely  to derive  clinical  benefit  (11%)  from  Sunitinib  treatment 
than are patients with primary exon 9 mutations, wild-type KIT or PDGR-α, or PDGFR-α mutations. 
Moreover, a reduced clinical benefit (15%) was observed in patients with a secondary KIT exon 17 or 
18 mutations regardless of the primary KIT genotype. It should be considered that these preliminary 
conclusions are based on a low patient number.  Molecular analyses of tumours from a phase III study 
are ongoing. 
The  finding  in  the  non-clinical  (in  vitro  and  in  vivo)  safety  pharmacology  studies  indicate  that 
Sunitinib  after  single  dose  has  the  potential  to  inhibit  the  cardiac  action  potential  repolarization 
process  (eg,  prolongation  of  QT  interval).  No  respiratory  function  impairment  (except  a  slight  and 
transient  increase  of  total  tidal  volume  (30%  30  min  after  treatment)  are  observed  after  single  oral 
administration of 500 mg/kg in rats. No specific safety studies on kidney have been presented.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Sunitib  shows  a  PK  profile  characterised  by  a  dose-dependent  but  not  dose-proportional  increase  in 
Cmax and AUC values [greater than proportionality in rats (non linear kinetics in this species), lower 
in  monkeys]  and  increases  in  elimination  half-lives  with  increasing  dose  that  were  accompanied  by 
decreasing  clearance  rates.  This  profile  in  non  human  primates  is  probably  due  to  the  significant 
saturation of the absorption at high doses. No evidence of accumulation derived from findings of the 
PK studies, but accumulation has been  observed in humans. Accumulation is  independent of dosing 
schedule, and no further accumulation of Sunitinib or SU012662 occurs beyond the first dosing cycle 
in any of the dosing schedules tested (from the Overall Clinical Summary). 
SU011248 and its metabolites cross the blood-brain-barriers, are distributed into CNS and their brain 
concentrations decreased with time, similar to the decline of plasma concentrations with time. 
Neither Sunitinib nor SU012662 are anticipated to be potent inhibitors of major CYP450 enzymes or 
to have significant inductive effect on the activity of CYP1A2, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4/5. Thus, both 
Sunitinib  and  SU012662  are  predicted  to  have  low  potential  to  increase  or  inhibit  the  clearance  of 
concomitantly administered drugs that are metabolized by these major CYP450 enzymes. The overall 
available data indicate that a sufficient higher exposure has been obtained in preclinical studies using 
suitable  animal  models.  No  gender-related  differences  in  disposition  were  observed  across  species 
except in the rat in which higher plasma levels have been obtained in female animals. Pregnancy does 
not appears to alter disposition in rats and rabbits. 
Toxicology 
Rats  and  monkeys  were  chosen  by  the  Applicant  as  species  for  the  evaluation  of  the  toxicological 
potential  of  Sunitinib.  The  primary  target  organs  of  Sunitinib  were  the  hemolymphopoietic  system 
(bone  marrow  hypocellularity,  and  lymphoid  depletion  of  thymus,  spleen,  and  lymph  node),  the 
exocrine  pancreas  (acinar  cell  degranulation  with  single  cell  necrosis  in  rats),  the  adrenal  gland 
(cortical  congestion  and  hemorrhage  in  rats  and  monkeys,  with  necrosis  followed  by  fibrosis  in  the 
rat),  the  salivary  gland  (acinar  hypertrophy),  the  gastrointestinal  system  (emesis  and  diarrhea  in 
monkeys,  and  single  incidences  of  intestinal  necrosis  associated  with  erosion/ulceration),  the 
developmental  and  reproductive  system.  All  findings  showed  reversibility  following  termination  of 
treatment,  except  for  effects  on  adrenal,  pancreas  and  reproductive  system.  Sunitinib  has  shown  to 
affect reproductive system both in male and female animals at systemic exposure comparable to the 
mean  human  exposure  at  recommended  dose  of  50mg/day:  based  on  the  available  non-clinical  data, 
Sunitinib treatment may result in adverse effects on reproductive function and fertility in humans. 
15/47 
©EMEA 2006 
In addition, other findings on cardiovascular system, kidney, liver, and bone growth plate have been 
observed. Evidence of QT prolongation, left ventricular dysfunction, bradychardia and mild diastolic 
dysfunction have been observed at 6mg/kg/day in the cardiovascular investigative study and in the 39-
week  monkey  study.  A  chronic  progressive  nephrosis  in  the  6  months  rat  study  (1.5  mg/kg/day: 
day168  AUC  =  2128  ng-h/mL),  was  still  present  at  the  end  of  the  8-week  recovery  period.  In  a  9-
month monkey study increased mesangial matrix in the kidney cortex was observed. Changes in liver 
weight  and  increase  in  liver  parameters  suggest  a  treatment  related  hepatic  dysfunction.  Thickening 
(physeal dysplasia) of the growth plate, characterized by disrupted endochondral ossification of long 
bones was observed in Sunitinib-treated rats and monkeys.  
Sunitinib was not mutagenic in bacteria using metabolic activation. 
The  carcinogenic  risk  of  Sunitinib  to  humans  is  unknown,  as  carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been 
conducted.  
Sunitinib  should  be  labelled  “probably  phototoxic”.  An  evaluation  of  photogenotoxicity  and 
photocarcinogenicity is not considered necessary.  
Embrio-fetal development study in rats and rabbits have shown maternal toxicity and treatment related 
malformation at doses comparable to the mean human exposure at recommended dose of 50mg/day. 
No  peri-  and  post-natal  toxicity  study  program  has  been  performed.  Based  on  the  available  non-
clinical  data,  Sunitinib  should  not  be  taken  during  pregnancy  or  by  any  woman  who  is  not  using 
adequate  contraception,  unless  the  potential  benefit  justifies  the  potential  risk  to  the  fetus. 
Additionally, women should be advised against breastfeeding while taking Sunitinib. Section 4.6 and 
5.3 of the SPC have been revised accordingly. 
SUTENT does not present an environmental risk following patient use. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
All  clinical  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  good  clinical  practice  (GCP)  and  were 
consistent with each local country’s guidelines on drug development. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In support of this marketing application, the following pharmacokinetic studies were conducted: 
•  2 single-dose studies in healthy volunteers (248-ONC-0511-001 and A6181031) 
•  4  single-dose  bioequivalence/bioavailability  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  (248-ONC-0511-004, 
A6181032, A6181033 & A6181046) 
•  2 single-dose drug-interaction studies in healthy volunteers (RTKC-0511-009 & A6181001) 
•  1 dose-escalating study in patients with malignant disease (248-ONC-0511-006) 
•  6 multiple-dose studies in patients with malignant disease (248-ONC-0511-002, RTKC-0511-005, 
RTKC-0511-013, RTKC-0511-014, RTKC-0511-016, RTKC-0511-018) 
In total, the Applicant conducted 15 clinical Phase 1-3 studies with sunitinib – including 8 studies in 
healthy  subjects,  1 study  in  patients  with  acute  myeloid  leukaemia  (AML)  and  6 studies  in  patients 
with solid malignant tumours. 
Summary  of  Sunitinib  and  SU012662  PK  Parameters  in  Healthy  Subjects  by  Study  and  Treatment 
Group Following a Single-Dose of Sunitinib 
16/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter  Statisti
c 
Study 
001 
Study 004 
Study
009 
Study
1001 
Study
1031 
Trt. A  Trt. B 
Study 1033 
Study 1046 
Trt. 1  Trt. 2  Trt. 3  Trt. 1  Trt. 2 
Study
1032 
Faste
d 
50 mg  50 mg  50 mg  10 mg 50 mg 50 mg 50 mg 50 mg  50 mg  50 mg  12.5 mg 12.5 mg
(n = 16) (n = 16)
(n = 6
) 
(n = 2
2) 
(n = 1
6) 
(n = 2
5) 
(n = 2
3) 
(n = 6
) 
(n = 1
3) 
(n = 1
4) 
(n = 2
7) 
(n = 23)
Sunitinib
a
Cmax
Mean  
  (ng/mL)  %CV 
37.7 
25 
24.1 
26 
25.5 
24 
23.8 
23 
30.1 
24 
24.4 
16 
26.3 
32 
31.5 
38 
31.0  31.3 
36 
32 
23.0 
25 
22.4 
24 
a
AUC0-last
  (ng*hr/m
L) 
a
AUC0-∞
  (ng*hr/m
L) 
Mean  
%CV 
943 
25 
996 
35 
1108  1267  1318  1052  1534 
23 
35 
37 
28 
25 
1582  1575  1556  1373 
22 
35 
35 
32 
Mean   1350  1029  1131  1318  1328  1063  1546 
%CV 
28 
34 
36 
23 
36 
25 
32 
1592  1587  1566  1418 
22 
31 
34 
35 
1374 
24 
1418 
24 
Tmax (hr)  Median 
Min, 
Max 
6 
5, 16 
7 
4.5, 
10 
6 
4.5, 
12 
8 
8 
5, 16  7, 12  8, 8.1
8 
8 
8, 16 
8 
8, 12 
8 
8 
8, 12  8, 12 
12 
8, 16 
12 
8, 16 
T1/2 (hr) 
Mean  
%CV 
26.9 
27 
38.1 
23 
39.0 
16 
42.2 
20 
48.9 
23 
50.9 
13 
60.0 
18 
51.7 
21 
52.0  51.9 
24 
21 
55.6 
23 
53.7 
24 
CL/F 
(L/hr) 
Mean  
40.4 
54.3 
50.9 
42.7 
39.5 
49.9 
35.0 
34.3 
34.8  34.6 
37.0 
37.2 
%CV 
32 
35 
42 
35 
21 
28 
30 
27 
31 
28 
24 
24 
%CV = Percent Coefficient of Variation; AUC0-∞ = Area Under the Plasma Concentration Time Curve From 0 
Extrapolated to Infinity; AUC0-last = Area Under the  
Plasma Concentration Time Curve From 0 to Time of the Last Measurable Concentration; CL/F = Oral Clearance; 
Cmax = Maximum Concentration; 
 T1/2 = Terminal Half-Life; Tmax = Time to Maximum Concentration; Trt. = Treatment. 
Data shown are for the following sunitinib treatments: 
Study 001: 50-mg sunitinib free-base; Study 004: 50-mg free-base fasted (Trt. A), 50-mg L-malate fasted (Trt. B); 
Study 009: 10-mg sunitinib L-malate alone; Study 1001: 50-mg sunitinib L-malate alone; Study 1031: 50-mg 
[14C]-sunitinib L-malate; Study 1032: 50-mg sunitinib L-malate proposed commercial  
formulation (fasted); Study 1033: 50-mg sunitinib L-malate clinical trial formulation (Trt. 1), 50-mg sunitinib L-malate 
proposed commercial formulation (Trt. 2),  
Four x 12.5-mg sunitinib L-malate proposed commercial formulation (Trt. 3); Study 1046: 12.5-mg sunitinib L-malate 
clinical trial formulation (Trt. 1), 12.5-mg sunitinib L-malate proposed commercial formulation (Trt. 2). 
a   Cmax and AUC parameters have been normalized to a 50 mg sunitinib dose, where appropriate.  To normalize to a 50 
mg sunitinib dose in Study A6181046, Cmax  and AUC were multiplied by 4. 
•  Absorption  
After oral dosing, both sunitinib and SU012662 reach Cmax at around 6 to 12 hours, followed by a bi-
exponential decline in concentrations. Terminal half lives range from 40 to 60 hours for sunitinib and 
from 80 to 110 hours for SU012662. Consistent with these half-lives, accumulation with daily dosing 
is  3-  to  4-fold  for  sunitinib  and  7-  to  10-fold  for  SU012662,  or  3.5  to  4.5-fold  for  total  active  drug 
(sunitinib  +  SU012662).  Accumulation  is  independent  of  dosing  schedule,  and  no  further 
accumulation  of  sunitinib  or  SU012662  occurred  beyond  the  first  dosing  cycle  in  any  of  the  dosing 
schedules tested. 
17/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With daily dosing, steady-state conditions are achieved by day 14 for sunitinib, SU012662 and total 
active drug. With a daily dose of 50 mg, trough levels of total drug are in the pre-clinically determined 
therapeutic range (> 50 ng/mL) by day 7. 
•  Distribution 
Sunitinib/SU012662  binding  to  human  plasma  proteins  were  95%  and  90%  respectively,  with  no 
apparent  concentration  dependence  at  concentration  ranges  of  99.6 to  3985 ng/mL  for  sunitinib  and 
92.6 to 3700 ng/mL for SU012662  
The  blood  to  plasma  partitioning  of  sunitinib  in  humans  was  evaluated  both  in vitro  and  ex vivo, 
showing that sunitinib preferentially partitions into erythrocytes.  
The apparent (Vd/F) of sunitinib has not been estimated because sunitinib has not been administered 
intravenously  in  humans.  From  a  cross-study  population  PK  analysis  in  HVs  and  patients,  the 
Applicant  estimated  a  Vd/F  of  sunitinib  of  approximately  2230 L;  this  is  consistent  with  the  large 
Vd/F (4-21 L/kg) observed in rats and monkeys. 
•  Elimination 
Sunitinib was the primary species identified in plasma, faeces, and urine, followed by SU012662. 
Faecal excretion was the major route of elimination of sunitinib. Over a 21-day collection period, total 
recovery of radioactivity was approximately 77%, with 61% in the faeces and 16% in urine, of which 
the majority was excreted within the first 7 days. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  dose  proportionality  of  sunitinib,  SU012662,  and  total  drug  (sunitinib  +  SU012662)  has  been 
evaluated  in  oncology  patients  following  single  dosing  with  sunitinib  doses  ranging  from  50 to 
350 mg,  and  multiple  (QD)  dosing  with  doses  of  25 to  100 mg  (Schedule 4/2).  Based  on  regression 
analyses of these data, the PK of these analytes appeared to be dose proportional over this dose range 
(95% CIs on the slopes of log-log regressions included a value of 1 or were close to 1).   
Accumulation per cycle was approximately 3- to 4-fold for sunitinib and 3.5- to 4.5-fold for total drug 
(sunitinib + SU012662) with repeat dosing, and was independent of dosing schedule (ie, 14- or 28-day 
dosing).  In the case of SU012662, accumulation was 7- to 10-fold across schedules and appeared to 
be slightly higher with 28-day than with 14-day dosing, but the difference was small.   
No accumulation between cycles was noted. 
•  Special populations 
No clinical studies have been conducted to evaluate the PK of sunitinib in patients below 18 years of 
age. The development of a paediatrics programme has been planned by the company 
No  clinical  study  was  conducted  to  evaluate  the  PK  of  sunitinib  in  subjects  with  hepatic  or  renal 
impairment. No relationship was observed between hepatic or renal function and sunitinib PK in the 
population PK analysis. 
The dataset used for population PK analysis included ages ranging from 18 to 84 years. No age effect 
on CL/F of either sunitinib or SU012662 was shown. Therefore, AUC is not affected by age. 
The  dataset  used  for  population  PK  analysis  included  195 males  and  83 females.  Females  showed  a 
31%  decrease  in  CL/F  of  sunitinib  and  a  26%  decrease  in  CL/F  of  SU012662,  relative  to  males. 
Weight was positively correlated with Vd/F of sunitinib, and CL/F and Vd/F of SU012662. 
This was translated to a 16% (due to decreased CL/F of SU012662 only) increase in total drug mean 
steady-state  AUC,  with  a  similar  effect  on  Cmax  for  lower  weight  subjects  (  <40  kg)  and  to  a  5% 
decrease in both AUC and Cmax of total drug in higher weight individuals (> 100 kg). 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro 
Sunitinib  had  little  or  no  effect  on  the  activities  of  CYP1A2,  CYP2E1,  and  CYP3A4/5  in  cultured 
human hepatocytes. SU012662 caused a concentration-dependent increase in CYP1A2 activity (up to 
18/47 
©EMEA 2006 
2.2-fold at 10 μM [3.70 μg/mL], on average). As an inducer of CYP1A2 activity, SU012662 was as 
effective as rifampin, but only 25% as effective as β-naphthoflavone. SU012662 had little or no effect 
on other P450 isoenzymes.  
Data from HCT-8 and Caco-2 cell lines indicated that sunitinib was either not a substrate or was, at 
most,  a  moderate  substrate  of  the  transporter  protein,  P-glycoprotein  (P-gp);  sunitinib  was  not  a 
substrate  for  the  breast  cancer  resistant  protein  (BCRP)  transporter.  At  clinically  relevant 
concentrations (50 ng/mL or greater), these transporters are not expected to affect the PK of sunitinib. 
In vivo 
In  Study RTKC-0511-009  (single-dose,  randomized,  open-label,  2-way  crossover  design  study) 
subjects  were  randomized  to  receive  either  sunitinib  malate  10 mg  PIB  on  Day 1  or  ketoconazole 
400 mg  QD  on  Days 1  through 7  with  a  single  10-mg  dose  of  sunitinib  malate  on  Day 3.    Subjects 
were then crossed-over with at least a 4-week washout period between treatment periods. 
Administration of ketoconazole with sunitinib resulted in a significant increase in mean sunitinib Cmax 
(59%),  AUC0-last  (76%),  and  AUC0-∞  (74%).    Sunitinib  Tmax  and  T1/2  were  not  affected.  Mean 
SU012662 Cmax, AUC0-last, and AUC0-∞ decreased by 29%, 16%, and 12%, respectively, and Tmax was 
prolonged following ketoconazole coadministration.  T1/2 of SU012662 was not affected. 
Study A6181001  was  a  single-dose,  randomized,  open-label,  2-way  crossover  design  study  to 
investigate  the  potential  for  PK  interaction  when  sunitinib  was  given  in  combination  with  rifampin. 
Subjects  were  randomized  to  receive  either  a  single  dose  of  sunitinib  malate  50 mg  or  rifampin 
600 mg QD for 17 days combined with a single dose of sunitinib malate 50 mg on Day 8.  Subjects 
were then crossed over with at least 2 weeks separating treatments.   
Administration of rifampin with sunitinib resulted in an approximate 80% mean reduction in sunitinib 
AUC0-last  and  AUC0-∞  as  compared  with  sunitinib  alone.    A  56%  mean  reduction  was  observed  in 
sunitinib  Cmax  with  the  combination  sunitinib  and  rifampin.    Sunitinib  Tmax  was  not  affected.  
Consistent with CYP3A4 induction, T1/2 decreased with rifampin coadministration. The values of most 
SU012662  PK  parameters  (Cmax,  AUC0-last,  and  AUC0-∞)  increased  after  administration  of  the 
combination of sunitinib and rifampin relative to administration of sunitinib alone.  Mean SU012662 
AUC0-∞ increased by 27%, AUC0-last by 29% and Cmax by 137% when sunitinib was administered with 
rifampin as compared to sunitinib alone.  The magnitude of change in SU012662 exposure (AUC0-last 
and  AUC0-∞)  with  rifampin  coadministration  was  not  as  large  as  that  seen  with  sunitinib.    No 
difference  was  observed  in  SU012662  Tmax.    Consistent  with  an  increase  in  metabolism,  SU012662 
T1/2 was slightly decreased (approximately 20%) with rifampin coadministration. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  PD  sunitinib  has  not been  studied directly  in  humans  since  no  adequate  biomarker  reaction  has 
been identified. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Data  collected  from  6 clinical  studies  were  pooled  for  the  population  PK/PD  analysis.  Tentative 
relationships with exposure were identified for time to progression, fatigue (both linked to steady-state 
AUC  of  total  drug),  diastolic  blood  pressure  (linked  to  concentration  of  total  drug),  and  absolute 
neutrophil count (linked to cumulative AUC of total drug, dropping contributions preceding a 28-day 
window). 
Modelling  of  fatigue  suggested  that  total  steady-state  AUC  affects  incidence  but  not  severity  of 
fatigue;  fatigue  achieves  steady-state  levels  after  one  cycle;  and  there  is  less  drug-related  fatigue  in 
GIST and MRCC patients than solid tumor patients. For a typical GIST patient, the model predicts that 
the probability of any fatigue would increase from 65% at 50 mg QD to 80% at 75 mg QD, and would 
fall to 46% at 25 mg QD. For a typical MRCC patient, the model predicts that the probability of any 
fatigue would increase from 74% at 50 mg QD to 86% at 75 mg QD, and would fall to 57% at 25 mg 
QD. For  a typical Solid Tumor patient, the  model predicts that the probability of any fatigue would 
increase from 92% at 50 mg QD to 96% at 75 mg QD, and would fall to 85% at 25 mg QD. Modelling 
of  neutrophil  data  suggested  that  absolute  neutrophil  counts  (ANC)  are  negatively  correlated  with 
exposure and achieve steady-state levels after one cycle; and there are more drug related ANC changes 
19/47 
©EMEA 2006 
in GIST and MRCC patients than solid tumor patients. For a typical GIST patient, the model predicts 
that mean ANC would decrease 36% at 50 mg QD, 54% at 75 mg QD, and only 18% at 25 mg QD. 
For a typical MRCC patient, the the model predicts that ANC would decrease 30% at 50 mg QD, 45% 
at 75 mg QD, and 15% at 25 mg QD. For a typical Solid Tumor patient, the model predicts that ANC 
would decrease 26% at 50 mg QD, 39% at 75 mg QD, and 13% at 25 mg QD.  
Diastolic blood pressure (DBP) modelling predicted that a typical patient on 25 mg QD or 75 mg QD 
would  experience  a  maximum  DBP  elevation  of  5  mmHg  and  9  mmHg  above  pre-treatment  DBP 
levels, respectively, vs. 8 mmHg at 50 mg QD. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response study(ies) 
The dose and schedule of sunitinib was based upon an assessment of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in 
2 Phase 1 studies in patients with advanced malignancies.  Starting doses of 25 to 100 mg QD were 
administered to patients in escalating dose cohorts on Schedules: 4/2 (4 weeks on /2 weeks off) , 2/2 
and 2/1. The maximum tolerated dose determined in each of these studies was 50 mg regardless of the 
schedule tested and there was no difference in the safety profile between the schedules. Schedule 4/2 
provided the greatest sunitinib exposure and because of the anti-tumours activity observed in Phase 1, 
Schedule 4/2 was chosen by the Applicant as the recommended schedule for further exploration.  
The Applicant conducted a Phase 1/2 open-label, single-arm, dose-escalating study at 2 centres in the 
United  States  (Study  RTKC-0511-013).  The  study  was  originally  designed  as  an  open-label,  dose-
escalation  Phase  1  study,  to  identify  sunitinib  regimens  suitable  for  Phase  2  development.  This  was 
accomplished with the selection of 50 mg QD of sunitinib on Schedule 4/2. At that point a Phase 2 
portion was added to evaluate the clinical benefit of this regimen. Fifty-five patients were enrolled at a 
starting  dose  of  50  mg  QD  on  Schedule  4/2  and  their  data  are  provided  by  the  applicant  as  an 
additional supportive study to the main study. 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumour (GIST) 
The clinical efficacy of sunitinib for the GIST indication is based on data from 1 pivotal Phase 3 and 1 
main supportive phase 1/2 trial. These are listed in Table GIST-1, along with the continuation protocol 
open to patients who have completed sunitinib studies. 
Table GIST-1  SUTENT:  Supportive  and  Pivotal  Clinical  Trials  (GIST)  With  Continuation 
Protocols 
Study Status  Study Design 
Completed 
Single-arm, open-label, multi-center, dose-
escalating in GIST patients (US based)  
Ongoing  
Double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational in 
GIST patients 
N 
55 a
312 b
Protocol  
RTKC-0511-013 
Phase 1/2 
Pivotal 
A6181004 
Phase 3  
Continuation 
RTKC-0511-017, 
A6181030 
Ongoing 
Open-label continuation study for patients with 
GIST, MRCC, and other cancers who would benefit 
from further sunitinib treatment. 
a Study RTKC-0511-013 also included 42 patients who received sunitinib at a starting dose other than 50 
mg QD, or on a schedule other than Schedule 4/2.  
b as of 01 January 2005 
c As of 01 December 2004. 
d The 24 GIST patients include 1 patient from Study A6181004 who was transferred to this protocol after 
a decline in performance status. 
24 GIST c,d, 
18 MRCC c
Both studies RTKC-0511-013 and Study A6181004 were confined to patients with malignant GIST 
who had tumours that were resistant to imatinib, or who were intolerant of imatinib. Enrollment in 
both studies is closed and the supportive study has been completed. In Study A6181004, a planned 
interim analysis of efficacy was performed on the database as of 01 January 2005, which included 
results from 125 patients with disease progression (44% of the planned total number of events). The 
20/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
analysis revealed that the primary objective had been met. The Independent Drug SafetyMonitoring 
Board therefore recommended that the study be unblinded and that all patients receiving placebo 
should receive sunitinib. 
•  Main studies 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Patients eligible for Study A6181004 were to have experienced failure during prior imatinib treatment 
due  to  disease  progression  defined  by  RECIST  or  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  criteria 
(confirmed  retrospectively by  the  core  imaging  laboratory)  or  intolerance  defined  as  life-threatening 
toxicity at any dose or unacceptable toxicity at a moderate dose (ie, National Cancer Institute Common 
Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [NCI CTCAE] Grade 3 toxicity or Grade 2 toxicity that was 
unacceptable  to  the  patient,  such  as  nausea).    Patients  were  to  be  at  least  18  years  of  age,  have 
histologically-proven GIST that was not amenable to therapy with curative intent, measurable disease, 
adequate organ function as defined in the entry criteria and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
(ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1.   
Patients  were  not  eligible  for  the  study  if  they  had  received  treatment  including  chemotherapy, 
chemoembolization,  immunotherapy,  or  an  investigational  agent  after  failure  of  imatinib  or 
radiotherapy to all sites of disease progressing on imatinib. 
Treatments 
Patients were randomized to either sunitinib 50 mg QD on Schedule 4/2 (4-week treatment followed 
by a 2-week off-drug per treatment cycle) or matched placebo capsules in a 2:1 fashion; at the time of 
interim analysis, 207 patients were randomized to the active drug and 105 to placebo. Dose reductions 
were allowed for tolerability. 
Objectives/outcomes/endpoints 
For  the  pivotal  trial,  Study  A6181004,  TTP  was  the  primary  endpoint,  defined  as  the  time  from  the 
first dose of study medication to first documentation of PD. For patients who did not have objective 
disease  progression,  died  due  to  any  cause,  or  were  given  antitumor  treatment  other  than  the  study 
treatment  prior  to  PD,  TTP  was  censored  on  the  day  after  the  date  of  the  last  disease  assessment 
documenting absence of PD.  For patients who lacked on-study assessments, TTP was censored at the 
date of the first dose of study medication. Secondary efficacy endpoints included PFS, OS, ORR, and 
DR. The primary analyses for all efficacy endpoints were performed in the ITT population. Tumours-
related endpoints were evaluated using RECIST and the primary analyses used results of assessment 
by the independent core imaging laboratory.  
Sample size 
The study was designed to test whether treatment with sunitinib resulted in at least 50% improvement 
in median TTP over placebo; the median TTP was assumed to be 4 months in the placebo group based 
on  an  investigator  survey.  The  planned  sample  size  was  357  patients  (238  on  sunitinib  and  119  on 
placebo) to obtain 281 PD events. Other assumptions included a planned accrual period of 18 months, 
a minimum follow-up period of 6 months, and an expectation that approximately 5% of patients might 
be lost to follow-up. 
Randomisation 
Patients  were  randomized  2:1  to  receive  sunitinib  capsules  or  matching  placebo  capsules  The 
stratification  factors  were  1)  prior  progressive  disease  (PD)  within  6  months  of  the  start  of  imatinib 
treatment vs. PD beyond 6 months from the start of imatinib treatment vs. intolerance, and 2) baseline 
McGill Pain Questionnaire’s Present Pain Intensity (MPQ-PPI) score (0 vs. ≥ 1).   
Blinding (masking) 
A  double-blind  study  design  was  used.  Patients  were  to  continue  blinded  treatment  until  PD  or 
withdrawal  for  other  reasons.    At  the  time  of  PD,  treatment  was  unblinded;  patients  randomized  to 
21/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
placebo  were  offered  crossover  to  open-label  sunitinib  and  patients  randomized  to  sunitinib  were 
permitted to continue treatment. 
An independent DSMB monitored the conduct of this pivotal trial through quarterly data analysis and 
meetings.  Analyses for the DSMB were prepared by an unblinded third-party statistician who was not 
otherwise involved in the study conduct.   
Statistical methods 
Standard  statistical  methods  were  used.  The  primary  analysis  of  TTP  was  based  on  a  two-sided 
unstratified log rank test. Secondary analyses were stratified by previous imatinib treatment (≤ vs. > 6 
months), baseline MPQ-PPI score (0 vs. ≥ 1), age (< vs. ≥ 65 years), sex (male vs. female), race (white 
vs. nonwhite), ECOG performance status (0 vs. 1), time since initial diagnosis (< vs. ≥ 6 months), and 
baseline weight (continuous). 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The  ITT  population  consisted  of  312  randomised  patients,  207  to  sunitinib  and  105  placebo 
respectively, with 5 and 3 patients not treated or without available treatment record, respectively. 
Recruitment 
Patient enrolment (randomization) began 17 December 2003 and ended 01 January 2005. 
Conduct of the study 
The  first  planned  interim  efficacy  analysis  was  performed  when  approximately  50%  of  the  required 
number of progression events had occurred.  The data cutoff for the analysis was 01 January 2005; on 
that date 312 patients had enrolled on the study.  During discussions within the independent DSMB 
between 24-26 January 2005, the board concluded that the study had met the primary endpoint, as well 
as demonstrating survival advantage, and recommended that the blinded study be discontinued and all 
remaining patients allowed access to open-label sunitinib. 
Baseline data/Numbers analysed 
Overall,  the  baseline  disease  characteristics  and  prior  treatment  history  of  the  patients  were  similar 
between  the  sunitinib  group  and  placebo  group  in  Study  A6181004  and  between  the  2  studies. 
Approximately  88%  of  patients  in  each  study  were  white.  In  Study  A6181004,  males  comprised 
63.8%  and  61.0%  of  the sunitinib  and  the  placebo  populations  respectively. The  median  age  ranged 
from 55 to 58 years among the studies/treatment arms. All patients entered the studies with an ECOG 
performance status <2 at the screening visit. 
History of Malignancy and Prior Tumours Treatment 
Overall,  the  baseline  disease  characteristics  and  prior  treatment  history  of  the  patients  were  similar 
between  the  sunitinib  group  and  placebo  group  in  Study  A6181004  and  between  the  2  studies. 
Summaries of type of malignancy and prior treatment are given in Table GIST-4. 
22/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
Table GIST-4  SUTENT: Summary of Disease Characteristics and Prior Tumours Treatment 
(Intent-to-Treat Population) 
Parameter 
Phase 3 Study A6181004 
50 mg QD, Schedule 4/2 
Sunitinib 
(N = 207) 
Placebo 
(N = 105) 
Phase 1/2 Study  
RTKC-0511-013 
50 mg QD, Schedule 
4/2 
(N = 55) 
204 (98.6) 
3 (1.4) 
13 (6.3) 
186 (89.9) 
8 (3.9) 
18 (8.7) 
126 (60.9) 
33 (15.9) 
29 (14.0) 
1 (0.5) 
207  
194.8 (142.9) 
166.6 
8.6, 1398.6 
Histology (n [%])a 
 Epithelioid 
 Spindle cell 
 Epithelioid and spindle cell 
 Not categorized 
 Missing 
Time since initial diagnosis (weeks) 
 n 
 Mean (SD) 
 Median  
 Range 
Previous surgery (n [%]) 
 Yes 
 No 
Previous radiotherapy (n [%]) 
 Yes 
 No 
 Missing 
Average daily dose (mg) of previous imatinib treatment 
 N 
 Mean (SD) 
 Median  
 Range 
Maximum daily dose (mg) of previous imatinib 
treatment 
 N 
 Mean (SD) 
 Median 
 Range 
Duration of previous imatinib treatment (weeks) 
 N 
 Mean (SD) 
 Median  
 Range 
Time since last imatinib treatment (weeks)b
 N 
 Mean (SD) 
 Median  
 Range 
205 
750.2 (277.9) 
800.0 
300.0, 1600.0 
205 
553.6 (214.3) 
502.9 
203.8, 1600.0 
205 
98.2 (52.4) 
105.3 
0.3, 205.1 
200 
8.2 (13.5) 
3.3 
1.1, 117.9 
7 (6.7) 
75 (71.4) 
13 (12.4) 
9 (8.6) 
1 (1.0) 
9 (16.4) 
22 (40.0) 
19 (34.5) 
5 (9.1) 
0 (0) 
104 
206.1 (147.5) 
176.3  
12.4, 854.4 
55 
182.7 (165.1) 
153.3 
22.6, 922.9 
104 (99.0) 
1 (1.0) 
12 (11.4) 
91 (86.7) 
2 (1.9) 
55 (100) 
0 (0) 
9 (16.4) 
34 (61.8) 
12 (21.8) 
105 
532.4 (178.4) 
484.6 
235.3, 1393.6 
55 
483.8 (128.2) 
447.0 
263.9, 800.0 
105 
739.0 (255.9) 
800.0 
400.0, 1600.0 
55 
618.2 (177.5) 
600.0 
400.0, 1000.0 
105 
101.6 (50.7) 
106.9 
11.4, 187.7 
102 
7.8 (13.0) 
3.3 
0.1, 80.3 
55 
91.5 (35.3) 
97.9 
10.3, 164.4 
55 
6.9 (12.1) 
2.9 
0.1, 77.4 
23/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table GIST-4  SUTENT: Summary of Disease Characteristics and Prior Tumours Treatment 
(Intent-to-Treat Population) (Continued) 
Parameter 
Phase 3 Study A6181004 
50 mg QD, Schedule 4/2 
Sunitinib 
(N = 207) 
Placebo 
(N = 105) 
Phase 1/2 Study  
RTKC-0511-013 
50 mg QD, Schedule 
4/2 
(N = 55) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
6 (2.9) 
51 (24.6) 
87 (42.0) 
58 (28.0) 
4 (1.9) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (1.0) 
36 (34.3) 
36 (34.3) 
30 (28.6) 
2 (1.9) 
0 (0)  
Best response to imatinib 
treatmentc, n(%) 
 Complete response  
 Partial response  
 Stable disease  
 Progressive disease  
 Not applicable 
 Missing 
Outcome of previous imatinib treatment n(%) 
 Intolerant of imatinib 
 Disease progression on imatinib 
  ≤6 months 
  >6 months 
Location of metastases [n (%)]d
51 (92.7) 
  Liver 
20 (36.4) 
  Peritoneal 
10 (18.2) 
  Lymph nodes 
NA 
  Stomach mass 
  Lung 
12 (21.8) 
  Visceral organs 
16 (29.1) 
  Soft tissue 
18 (32.7) 
a  For Study RTKC-0511-013, histology was classified by medical review of the data.  
b  Time since last imatinib treatment was calculated based on the number of weeks between the last 
130 (62.8) 
96 (46.4) 
37 (17.9) 
12 (5.8) 
8 (3.9) 
10 (4.8) 
8 (3.9) 
68 (64.8) 
44 (41.9) 
28 (26.7) 
7 (6.7) 
5 (4.8) 
3 (2.9) 
0 (0) 
36 (17.4)* 
162 (78.3) 
17 (16.2) 
84 (80.0) 
2 (3.6) 
53 (96.4) 
9 (4.3) 
4 (3.8) 
dose of imatinib treatment and the first dose of sunitinib or placebo. 
c  Best response to previous imatinib treatment was not available from Study RTKC-0511-013. 
d  Location of metastases were recoded by medical review of the data; in some cases, similar terms 
were collapsed.  
*  One patient initially randomized to sunitinib was found retrospectively as an eligibility error due to 
lack of documentation for progression on imatinib and was thus withdrawn by the investigator.  
Outcomes and estimation 
Time to Tumour Progression 
TTP results using the core imaging laboratory assessment in the ITT population for Study A6181004 
are presented in Table GIST-5 and Figure GIST-1. TTP results using the investigator’s assessment in 
the ITT population for Study A6181004 are presented in Table GIST-5.  
24/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table GIST-5  SUTENT:  Summary  of  Time 
to  Tumours  Progression 
(Intent-to-Treat 
Population) 
Efficacy Parameter 
Phase 3 Study A6181004 
50 mg QD, Schedule 4/2 
Sunitinib 
(N = 207) 
Placebo  
(N = 105) 
Phase ½: Study RTKC-0511-
013 
and Continuation Study 
A6181030 
50 mg QD, Schedule 4/2 
(N = 55) 
82 (39.6) 
Core Imaging Laboratory Assesseda
With disease progressiona,b, n 
(%) 
Time to Tumours Progression 
(weeks)a,b
Quartile (95% CI) 
 25% 
 50% 
 75% 
Hazard ratio (sunitinib vs. 
placebo)c 
95% CI 
p-valued
Investigator Assessed 
With disease progressionb n (%)  77 (37.2) 
Time to Tumours Progression 
(weeks)b
Quartile (95% CI) 
 25% 
 50% 
 75% 
9.6 (4.3, 10.1) 
27.3 (16.0, 
32.1) 
35.0 (34.0, 
45.9) 
0.329 
0.233, 0.466 
< 0.001 
67 (63.8) 
NA 
4.1 (4.0, 4.3) 
6.4 (4.4, 10.0) 
10.1 (10.0, 
16.1) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
67 (63.8) 
32 (58.2) 
4.1 (4.0, 4.3) 
5.1 (4.4, 10.1) 
10.6 (10.1, 
16.1) 
21.4 (10.1, 22.0) 
34.0 (22.0, 46.0) 
58.0 (44.0, *) 
10.1 (9.1, 12.4) 
28.9 (21.3, 
34.1) 
45.9 (39.9, 
46.9) 
0.281 
0.198, 0.399 
< 0.001 
Hazard ratio (sunitinib vs. 
placebo)c 
95% CI 
p-valued
Note:  Investigator  assessments  were  derived  from  Investigator  measurements,  reason  for 
discontinuation  from  study  (‘lack  of  efficacy’)  and  disease  progression  AE  data;  the  results  also 
include patients who completed Study RTKC-0511-013 and transferred to Study A6181030. 
a  Disease  progressions  were  not  reviewed  by  the  core  imaging  laboratory  for  Study  RTKC-0511-
013. 
during blinded period. 
b  For  patients  who  progressed  while  on  study.  For  Study  A6181004,  for  patients  who  progressed 
c  Assuming  proportional  hazards,  a  hazard  ratio  less  than  1  indicates  a  reduction  in  hazard  rate  in 
favor  of  sunitinib;  a  hazard  ratio  greater  than  1  indicates  a  reduction  in  hazard  rate  in  favor  of 
placebo. 
d  p-value is from a 2-sided, unstratified log-rank test.  
*  Unable to calculate due to immaturity of the study. 
Figure  GIST-1    SUTENT:  Kaplan-Meier  Curves  of  Time  to  Tumours  Progression,  Core 
Imaging Laboratory Assessment in Study A6181004 (Intent-to-Treat Population) 
25/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Median TTP = 27.3 weeks vs. 6.4 weeks, Hazard 
Ratio = 0.329, 95 CI% = 0.233-0.466 
p < 0.001a
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
100%
 90%
 80%
 70%
 60%
 50%
 40%
 30%
 20%
 10%
  0%
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
▲ Sunitinib    ■ Placebo    
a p-value is from a 2-sided, unstratified log-rank test.   
The  difference  in  TTP  between  the  treatment  arms  was  statistically  and  clinically  significant  with 
median TTP of 27.3 vs. 6.4 weeks for the sunitinib and placebo arms, respectively (hazard ratio 0.329; 
95% CI: 0.233 – 0.466, p < 0.001). Median TTP for the group of patients treated with sunitinib was 
greater  than  4-fold  that  for  patients  receiving  placebo.  The  study  outcome  using  the  investigator 
assessments was consistent with that of the Core Imaging Laboratory. 
Progression Free Survival 
PFS is a composite endpoint that includes as events disease progression and deaths due to any cause 
while  on-study  (within 28 or  30  days  of  last  dose,  depending  on  the  protocol  conduct).  PFS  results, 
using  the  core  imaging  laboratory  assessment  in  the  ITT  population  for  Study  A6181004,  are 
presented  in  Table  GIST-7  and  Figure  GIST-4.  Median  PFS  was  24.6  weeks  vs.  6.4  weeks  for  the 
sunitinib and placebo arms, respectively (hazard ratio 0.333; 95% CI: 0.238 - 0.467, p < 0.001). The 
study outcome as analyzed using the investigator assessments is similar. These results are consistent 
with  the  analysis  of  TTP  in  this  study.  Results  of  the  supportive  trial,  Study  RTKC-0511-013,  are 
again consistent with the pivotal trial, with median PFS 34.0 weeks (Figure GIST-5). 
26/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table GIST- 7     SUTENT:Summary of Progression-Free Survival (Intent-to-Treat Population) 
Efficacy Parameter 
Core Imaging Laboratory Assessed 
With progression or death due to any 
cause while on study a b
Progression-free survival (weeks) 
Quartile (95% CI) 
 25% 
 50% 
 75% 
Hazard ratio (sunitinib vs. placebo)c 
95% CI 
p-valued
Investigator Assessed 
With progression or death due to any 
cause while on study a b
Progression-free survival (weeks) 
Quartile (95% CI) 
 25% 
 50% 
 75% 
Hazard ratio (sunitinib vs. placebo)c 
95% CI 
p-valued
Phase 3 Study A6181004 
50 mg QD, Schedule 4/2 
Sunitinib 
(N = 207) 
Placebo  
(N = 105) 
Phase 1/2 
Study RTKC-0511-013
Continuation Study 
A6181030 
50 mg QD, Schedule 
4/2 
(N = 55) 
89 (43.0) 
70 (66.7) 
NA 
4.1 (4.0, 4.3) 
6.4 (4.4, 10.0) 
10.1 (10.0, 16.0)
NA 
7.9 (4.3, 10.0) 
24.6 (12.1, 
28.3) 
35.0 (33.0, 
45.9) 
0.333 
0.238, 0.467 
< 0.001 
82 (39.6) 
70 (66.7) 
33 (60.0) 
4.1 (4.0, 4.3) 
5.1 (4.4, 10.0) 
10.6 (10.1, 16.1)
21.4 (10.1, 22.0) 
34.0 (22.0, 46.0) 
58.9 (44.0, *) 
9.9 (7.4, 11.4) 
27.9 (17.4, 
34.1) 
45.9 (39.9, 
46.9) 
0.293 
0.209, 0.412 
< 0.001 
a  Disease  progressions  were  not  reviewed  by  the  core  imaging  laboratory  for  Study  RTKC-0511-
013. 
b  For  patients  who  progressed  while  on  study.  For  Study  A6181004,  for  patients  who  progressed 
during blinded period.  
c  Assuming  proportional  hazards,  a  hazard  ratio  less  than  1  indicates  a  reduction  in  hazard  rate  in 
favor  of  sunitinib;  a  hazard  ratio  greater  than  1  indicates  a  reduction  in  hazard  rate  in  favor  of 
placebo. 
d  p-value is from a 2-sided, unstratified log-rank test.  
*  Unable to calculate due to immaturity of the study. 
27/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure GIST-4.  SUTENT:  Kaplan-Meier  Curves  of  Progression-Free  Survival  in  Study 
A6181004, Core Imaging Laboratory Assessment (Intent-to-Treat Population) 
Median PFS = 24.6 weeks vs. 6.4 weeks 
Hazard Ratio = 0.333, 95 CI% = 0.238 - 0.467 
p < 0.001a
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
100%
 90%
 80%
 70%
 60%
 50%
 40%
 30%
 20%
 10%
  0%
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
▲ Sunitinib    ■ Placebo    
Overall Survival 
Weeks 
OS results in the ITT population for Study A6181004, including the open-label portion of the study, 
are presented in Figure GIST-6 and Table GIST-8. The difference in OS between the treatment arms 
was statistically significant (hazard ratio 0.491; 95% CI: 0.290 – 0.831, p = 0.007). The risk of death 
was 2 times higher in patients in the placebo arm of the study compared to the sunitinib arm. Median 
OS  had  not  yet  been  reached  in  either  treatment  arm  at  the  time  of  the  analysis.  The  proportion  of 
patients expiring was 14.0% vs. 25.7% for sunitinib vs. placebo, respectively. OS was not an endpoint 
in Study RTKC-0511-013.   
Figure GIST-6.  SUTENT:  Kaplan-Meier  Curves  of  Overall  Survival,  Including  Open-Label 
Portion of Study A6181004 (ITT Population) 
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
Study 1004 SU011248
Study 1004 Placebo
100%
 90%
 80%
 70%
 60%
 50%
 40%
 30%
 20%
 10%
  0%
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
▲ Sunitinib    ■ Placebo    
Weeks 
Note:  For  Study  A6181004,  the  open-label  portion  of  data  is  included  and  kept  under  the  original 
treatment group. 
28/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  patients  known  to  be  alive  at  the  time  the  database  was  closed  for  analysis,  survival  data  were 
censored on the date they were last known to be alive. 
Table GIST-8      SUTENT:  Summary  of  Overall  Survival  Including  the  Open-Label  Portion  of 
Study A6181004 (Intent-to-Treat Population) 
Efficacy Parameter 
Patient status (n [%)])a
 Alive 
 Dead 
Survival time (weeks) 
Quartile (95% CI) 
 25% 
 50% 
 75% 
Hazard ratio (sunitinib vs. placebo)b 
95% CI 
p-valuec
Phase 3 Study A6181004 
50 mg QD, Schedule 4/2 
Sunitinib 
(N = 207) 
178 (86.0) 
29 (14.0) 
40 (29.7, *) 
* (43.6, *) 
* (*, *) 
0.491 
0.290, 0.831 
0.007 
Placebo  
(N = 105) 
78 (74.3) 
27 (25.7) 
15.9 (11.3, 33.7) 
* (30.0, *) 
* (*, *) 
Note: Includes 1 patient who transferred to Study A6181030. 
The open-label portion of data is included and kept under the original treatment group. 
QD = once daily, N = number of patients included in the population, CI = confidence interval. 
a  For patients not known to be dead at the time the database was closed for analysis, survival data 
were censored on the date they were last known to be alive. 
b  Assuming  proportional  hazards,  a  hazard  ratio  less  than  1  indicates  a  reduction  in  hazard  rate  in 
favor  of  sunitinib;  a  hazard  ratio  greater  than  1  indicates  a  reduction  in  hazard  rate  in  favor  of 
placebo. 
c  p-value is from a 2-sided, unstratified log-rank test.  
*  Unable to calculate due to immaturity of the study. 
Median OS had not yet been reached in pivotal Study A6181004, at the time of data cut-off 
Ancillary analyses 
Analyses were performed on the endpoints of TTP, PFS, OS, ORR, and DR to assess the efficacy of 
sunitinib in subpopulations defined by age, gender, and race.  No clinically meaningful differences 
could be detected. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No formal meta-analysis was performed across the trials. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
None performed. 
Study RTKC-0511-013 
This study was an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation, Phase 1/2 study in patients with GIST after 
failure of imatinib due to resistance or intolerance.   
The primary objective of this study was to identify 1 or more sunitinib regimens suitable for Phase 2 
development.  The original protocol examined Schedule 2/2 (2-week treatment followed by a 2-week 
off-drug period) using dose levels of 25, 50, and 75 mg QD.  The protocol was subsequently amended 
to  allow  investigation  of  other  regimens  including  Schedule  2/1  at  50 mg  QD  and  Schedule  4/2  at 
50 mg QD.  The 50 mg QD Schedule 4/2 regimen was selected for Phase 2 development because it 
was  well  tolerated,  provided  exposure  at  drug  levels  consistent  with  preclinically  determined  target 
inhibition, and had demonstrated antitumor activity in several patients.  The data included in the SCE 
are for 55 patients treated using the 50 mg QD Schedule 4/2. 
29/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study included patients that were at least 18 years of age, had histologically proven metastatic or 
unresectable GIST, had an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1, and had adequate organ function as 
defined in the entry criteria.   
The  TTP  was  34.0  weeks  (95%  CI,  22.0  –  46.0  weeks),  based  on  investigator  measurements.  The 
investigator-assessed ORR was 9.1%.    
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (MRCC) 
The  clinical  efficacy  of  sunitinib  for  the  RCC  is  based  on  data  from  1  pivotal  large  Phase  2  and  1 
supportive Phase 2 trial. These are summarized in Table RCC-1, along with the continuation protocol 
open to patients who have completed the supportive study. 
Table RCC-1    Supportive  and  Pivotal  Clinical  Trials  (GIST  and  MRCC  Indications),  With 
Continuation Protocols 
Protocol 
Study Status 
Study Design 
Supportive 
RTKC-0511-014  Completed 
Pivotal 
A6181006 
Continuation 
RTKC-0511-017, 
A6181030 
Ongoing 
(enrolment 
completed) 
Ongoing 
Single-arm, open-label, multi-center 
in MRCC patients 
N 
63 
Single-arm, open-label, multi-center 
in MRCC patients 
106 
Open-label continuation studies for 
patients with GIST, MRCC, and 
other cancers who would benefit 
from further sunitinib treatment. 
24 GIST a,b, 
18 MRCC a
a As of 01 December 2004. 
b The 24 GIST patients include 1 patient from Study A6181004 who was transferred to this protocol after 
a decline in performance status. 
•  Main studies 
The 2 trials in patients with MRCC had similar designs and methods and are described in parallel in 
the following sections. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Patients eligible for these studies were at least 18 years of age, had histologically-proven MRCC that 
was not amenable to therapy with curative intent and had measurable disease, adequate organ function 
as  defined  in  the  entry  criteria  and  ECOG  performance  status  of  0  or  1.  All  patients  were  to  have 
experienced  failure  during  (or  intolerance  to  (Protocol  RTKC-0511-017)  previous  cytokine  therapy. 
Prior treatment failure was in study A6181006 based on radiographic evidence of disease progression 
defined by RECIST or WHO criteria during or within 9 months of completion of 1 cytokine therapy 
treatment (IL-2, IFN, or IL-2 + IFN); patients who were treated with IFN alone were to have received 
treatment for at least 28 days. 
Treatments 
Patients received 50 mg SU011248 daily for 4 weeks followed by 2 weeks of rest in repeated 6-week 
cycles. Doses could be reduced to 37.5 mg or 25 mg in the event of toxicity.  No dose increases were 
allowed  in  Study  A6181006,  but  could  go  up  to  75  mg/d  in  RTKC-0511-017.  Sutinib  treatment 
continued on-study until PD or withdrawal for other reasons. 
Objectives/Outcomes/endpoints 
30/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  endpoint  for  the  studies  was  ORR.    Secondary  endpoints  included  assessment  of  DR, 
TTP,  PFS,  and  OS;  evaluation  of  the  safety  of  sunitinib;  evaluation  of  exposure  to  sunitinib  and  its 
active  metabolite  (SU012662);  and  patient  reported  outcomes  for  quality  of  life  (in  Study  RTKC-
0511-014 only). 
The protocol defined efficacy assessments were based on core imaging laboratory assessments for the 
pivotal  Study  A6181006,  and  on  investigator  assessments  for  supporting  Study  RTKC-0511-014. 
Radiographic (CT or MRI) assessment was performed at screening and after every cycle for the first 4 
cycles (first 2 cycles for Study RTKC-0511-014) and every other cycle thereafter for the remainder of 
the  study,  as  well  as  at  the  end  of  treatment/withdrawal  visit.    Additional  scans  were  performed  to 
confirm response, or whenever disease progression was suspected.  All images were interpreted by the 
investigator.  In  Study  A6181006,  all  images  were  also  interpreted  by  an  independent  central  core 
laboratory, which was blinded to the investigator’s interpretation, but in Study RTKC-0511-014, core 
laboratory interpretations were only done on images which the investigator had already interpreted as 
responses by RECIST. 
Sample size 
The calculation of sample size for both studies was based on the null hypothesis of ORR ≤ 5% (which 
was considered to be not clinically meaningful).  For Study A6181006, the sample size of 100 patients 
had 90% power for testing that the ORR was ≥ 15% (overall 2-sided significance level of 0.05, exact 
binomial test).  For Study RTKC-0511-014, a Simon 2-stage minimax design was used.  With a one-
sided alpha level of 5% and 85% power for testing that the ORR was ≥ 15%, up to a maximum of 63 
treated patients were required.   
Randomisation 
N/A 
Blinding (masking) 
N/A 
Statistical methods 
Standard statistyical methods were used. The proportion of responders was estimated using 95% exact 
confidence intervals. Patients with no on-study assessments were counted as non responders 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
In  Study  A6181006  106  patients  were  entered  and  constitute  the  ITT  population.  All  106  patients 
started  at  least  one  treatment  administration.  In  study  Study  RTKC-0511-014  63  patients  were 
entered and constitute the ITT population. All 63 patients started at least one treatment administration. 
Recruitment 
Enrollment  for  Study  A6181006  began  in  February  2004  and  was  complete  in  November  2004;  for 
Study RTKC-0511-014, enrollment began in January 2003 and was complete in July 2003.  Thus, the 
last  patient  enrolled  in  Study  A6181006  approximately  2  months  prior  to  the  data  cutoff  date,  as 
compared  to  Study  RTKC-0511-014,  in  which  the  last  patient  enrolled  17  months  before  the  data 
cutoff date for the continuation studies. 
Conduct of the study 
An  independent  Drug  Safety  Monitoring  Committee  oversaw  the  conduct  of  the  pivotal  trial,  Study 
A6181006.  The  committee  met  at  least  every  4  months  to  review  conduct  of  the  study  as  well  as 
accumulating safety and efficacy data. The committee met on 3 occasions prior to 28 January 2005; 
the conclusion for each meeting was that the study should continue as planned. 
Baseline data 
The  baseline  age,  gender,  race  and  ECOG  performance  statuses  of  the  patients  were  generally 
comparable between Studies A6181006 and RTKC-0511-014; patient baseline characteristics for the 2 
studies are presented in the following table.  
31/47 
©EMEA 2006 
Table 6. 
Summary of Patient Baseline Characteristics (Intent-to-Treat Population) 
Patient Baseline Characteristics 
Pivotal Study 
A6181006 
(N = 106) 
Supportive Study 
RTKC-0511-014 
(N = 63) 
RTKC-0511-014 and 
A6181006 Pooled 
(N = 169) 
Age (years) 
  N 
  Mean (SD) 
  Median 
  Range 
Age (n [%]) 
18 - <65 years 
  ≥65 years 
Sex (n [%]) 
  Male 
  Female 
Race (n [%]) 
  White 
  Black 
  Asian 
  Not listed 
ECOG performance status (n [%]) 
0 
1 
2* 
106 
55.8 (10.3) 
56 
32.0, 79.0 
87 (82.1) 
19 (17.9) 
67 (63.2) 
39 (36.8) 
100 (94.3) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (1.9) 
4 (3.8) 
58 (54.7) 
47 (44.3) 
1 (0.9) 
63 
59.3 (10.0) 
60 
24.0, 87.0 
43 (68.3) 
20 (31.7) 
43 (68.3) 
20 (31.7) 
54 (85.7) 
3 (4.8) 
4 (6.3) 
2 (3.2) 
34 (54.0) 
28 (44.4) 
1 (1.6) 
169 
57.1 (10.3) 
57 
24.0, 87.0 
130 (76.9) 
39 (23.1) 
110 (65.1) 
59 (34.9) 
154 (91.1) 
3 (1.8) 
6 (3.6) 
6 (3.6) 
92 (54.4) 
75 (44.4) 
2 (1.2) 
Note: Baseline is defined as the last observation prior to the first dose of study drug. 
N = total number of patients included in the population, n = number of patients, SD = standard 
deviation, ECOG = Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. 
*  Patients having ECOG performance status 2 at baseline were eligible for study with performance 
status <2 at earlier screening assessment.  
32/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
History of Malignancy and Prior Tumor Treatment 
Overall,  the  baseline  malignancy  and  prior  treatment  history  of  patients  were  comparable  between 
Studies  A6181006  and  RTKC-0511-014.  All  patients  entering  both  studies  had  received  prior 
treatment with cytokine therapies. Summaries of type of malignancy and prior treatment are presented 
in Table 
Summary of Malignancy and Prior Treatment (Intent-to-Treat Population) 
Parameter 
Histology (n [%])a
  Clear cell 
  Not categorized 
  Missing 
Time since initial diagnosis (weeks) 
  Mean (Std) 
  Median 
  Range 
Previous nephrectomy (n [%]) 
  Yes 
  No 
Previous radiotherapy (n [%]) 
  Yes 
  No 
Prior cytokine treatment (n [%]) 
  Yes 
Type of prior cytokine or systemic therapy (n [%]) 
Pivotal Study 
A6181006 
(N = 106) 
106 (100.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
131.0 (154.3) 
79.4 
10.0, 918.1 
106 (100.0) 
0 (0.0) 
20 (18.9) 
86 (81.1) 
106 (100.0) 
IFN Only 
IFN + Other 
IFN + IL-2 Only 
IFN + IL-2 + Other 
IL-2 Only 
IL-2 + Other 
47 (44.3) 
0 (0.0) 
9 (8.5) 
0 (0.0) 
50 (47.2) 
0 (0.0) 
Best response to previous cytokine therapy [n (%)]  
  Complete response 
  Partial response 
  Stable disease 
  Progressive disease 
  Not applicable 
  Missing 
Number of sites of metastases [n (%)]  
3 (2.8) 
9 (8.5) 
29 (27.4) 
63 (59.4) 
1 (0.9) 
1 (0.9) 
Supportive Study 
RTKC-0511-014 
(N = 63) 
RTKC-0511-014 and 
A6181006 Pooled 
(N = 169) 
55 (87.3) 
7 (11.1) 
1 (1.6) 
161 (95.3) 
7 (4.1) 
1 (0.6) 
215.2 (315.6) 
89 
9.6, 1473.0 
162.4 (230.9) 
84.4 
9.6, 1473.0 
58 (92.1) 
5 (7.9) 
25 (39.7) 
38 (60.3) 
164 (97.0) 
5 (3.0) 
45 (26.6) 
124 (73.4) 
63 (100.0) 
169 (100.0) 
27 (42.9) 
8 (12.7) 
7 (11.1) 
2 (3.2) 
18 (28.6) 
1 (1.6) 
1 (1.6) 
3 (4.8) 
15 (23.8) 
44 (69.8) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
74 (43.8) 
8 (4.7) 
16 (9.5) 
2 (1.2) 
68 (40.2) 
1 (0.6) 
4 (2.4) 
12 (7.1) 
44 (26.0) 
107 (63.3) 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
17 (16.0) 
39 (36.8) 
50 (47.2) 
1 
2 
  ≥3 
Location of common sites of metastases [n (%)] 
  Lung metastases 
  Lymph nodes 
  Bone metastases 
  Liver metastases 
  Local recurrences 
a  For Study RTKC-0511-014, histology was characterized by medical review of the data. 
86 (81.1) 
62 (58.5) 
27 (25.5) 
29 (27.4) 
21 (19.8) 
51 (81.0) 
34 (54.0) 
32 (50.8) 
10 (15.9) 
13 (20.6) 
11 (17.5) 
15 (23.8) 
37 (58.7) 
28 (16.6) 
54 (32.0) 
87 (51.5) 
137 (81.1) 
96 (56.8) 
59 (34.9) 
39 (23.1) 
34 (20.1) 
33/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 169 patients enrolled in Studies A6181006 and RTKC-0511-014 and received the treatment 
regimen of 50 mg QD sunitinib on Schedule 4/2.  In Study A6181006, the median duration of 
sunitinib treatment was 23.6 weeks.  In Study RTKC-0511-014, the median duration of treatment, 
including participation in the continuation studies, was 34 weeks.   
Outcomes and estimation 
The  ORR,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  is  summarized  for  the  ITT  population  in  Table RCC-.  In 
Study A6181006, the ORR was assessed both by the investigator and an independent core laboratory, 
while  in  Study  RTKC-0511-014,  assessment  was  first  made  by  the  investigator  and  only  images 
considered to represent objective responses were sent for evaluation by the core laboratory.  
The core laboratory-assessed ORR was very similar in the pivotal and the supportive study: 25.5% and 
25.4%,  respectively.  Likewise,  the  investigator-assessed  rate  was  very  consistent  between  studies: 
35.8% (Study A6181006) and 36.5% (Study RTKC-0511-014).  
34/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Table RCC-5 Objective Response Rate in MRCC Studies (Intent-to-Treat) 
Study A6181006 
(N = 106) 
Study RTKC- 
0511-014 a 
(N = 63) 
Pooled MRCC 
(N = 169) 
Core Laboratory Assessed 
Patients with baseline assessment, n 
(%) 
Patients with measurable disease at 
baseline  
Best overall response  
  Complete response 
  Partial response 
  Stable disease  
  Progressive disease 
  Not valuable b
106 (100.0) 
NA 
105 (99.1) 
NA 
0  
27 (25.5) 
65 (61.3) 
14 (13.2) 
0  
0 
16 (25.4) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
25.4 (15.3 – 37.9) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
ORR (CR+PR), % (95% CI) 
25.5 (17.5 – 34.9) 
Investigator Assessed 
106 (100.0) 
63 (100.0) 
169 (100.0) 
105 (99.1) 
63 (100.0) 
168 (99.4) 
Patients with baseline assessment, n 
(%) 
Patients with measurable disease at 
baseline  
Best overall response  
  Complete response 
  Partial response 
  Stable disease (≥ 6 weeks) 
  Progressive disease 
  Not valuable b
  Missing 
1 (0.9) 
37 (34.9) 
44 (41.5) 
17 (16.0) 
7 (6.6) 
0  
35.8 (26.8 – 45.7) 
ORR (CR+PR), % (95% CI) 
a Includes data from Studies A6181030 and RTKC-0511-017, from 18 patients who transferred after 
completing Study RTKC-0511-014  
b Patients were considered “Not Valuable” if all target and non-target lesions documented at baseline were 
not followed on-study For the investigator-assessed responses, patients with less than 6 weeks on-study 
observation time were also considered “Not Valuable”, unless they had disease progression.  
0  
23 (36.5) 
25 (39.7) 
7 (11.1) 
5 (7.9) 
3 (4.8) 
36.5 (24.7 – 49.6) 
1 (0.6) 
60 (35.5) 
69 (40.8) 
24 (14.2) 
12 (7.1) 
3 (1.8) 
36.1 (28.9 – 43.8) 
The median PFS in Study A6181006 using the core laboratory assessments was 34.0 weeks (95% CI: 
23.3 – 36.0); median PFS using the investigator assessments was 34.0 weeks (95% CI: 22.3 – 35.3). In 
Study RTKC-0511-014, median PFS was 37.7 weeks (95% CI: 24.0 – 46.4). Analysis of OS for Study 
A6181006 was premature as 89 of 106 patients were still alive.  
Ancillary analyses 
Analyses of DR, TTP, PFS, and OS in subpopulations defined by age, gender, and race found that no 
clinically  meaningful  differences  in  these  endpoints  with  respect  to  any  of  these  groups  could  be 
established.   
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No formal meta-analysis was performed across the trials. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Hepatic  Insufficiency:  No  clinical  studies  have  been  performed  in  patients  with  impaired  hepatic 
function. Studies excluded patients with ALT or AST >2.5 x Upper Limit of Normal(ULN) or, > 5.0 x 
ULN, if due to underlying disease. Population pharmacokinetic analyses performed by the Applicant 
35/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
show that sunitinib pharmacokinetics were unaltered in a range of hepatic function evaluated by ALT 
(4-156 IU/L).  
Renal Insufficiency: No clinical studies have been performed in patients with impaired renal function. 
Studies excluded patients with serum creatinine > 2.0 x ULN. 
The  Applicant  performed  a  Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  which  showed  that  sunitinib 
pharmacokinetics were unaltered in the range of renal function evaluated by creatinine clearance (42-
347 mL/min). 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Given  the  similiarity  in  terms  of  study  design  and  analysis  plan,  Study  RTKC-0511-014  has  been 
described and discussed together with the pivotal trial A6181006 for ease of comparison. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  demonstration  of  efficacy  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  malignant  gastrointestinal  stromal 
tumour  (GIST)  who  were  resistant  or  intolerant  to  imatinib  is  based  on  a  double  blind,  placebo 
controlled  Phase  III  study  (A6181004)  and  a  single-arm,  open-label,  dose-escalation  study  (RTKC-
0511-013).  In this study, the TTP and overall survival for sunitinib were significantly longer than for 
placebo.  
The  demonstration  of  efficacy  in  patients  with  metastatic  renal  cell  carcinoma  (MRCC)  who  were 
refractory  to  prior  cytokine  therapy  with  interleukin-2  or  interferon-α  is  based  on  the  proportion  of 
patients  achieving  an  objective  response  observed  in  two  single-arm,  open-label  phase  II  studies 
(A6181006 and RTKC-0511-014). In study RTKC-0511-014 the ORR was 36.5% (95% C.I. 24.7% - 
49.6%).   In  study  A6181006,  ORR  was  35.8%  (95%  C.I.  26.8%  –  45.7%).  The  applicant  also 
announced  the  results  of  an  interim  analysis  of  ORR  in  treatment-naïve  patients  enrolled  in  a 
randomized,  multi-centre,  Phase  3  study,  but  no  detailed  study  report  was  available  at  the  time  of 
assessment  (data  not  shown).  However,  no  randomized  controlled  trials  with  SUTENTin  MRCC  in 
patients who were refractory to prior cytokine therapy have been submitted. Evaluation of treatment 
effects in terms of time-related endpoints is difficult in the context of non-randomized studies. Thus, 
comprehensive clinical data referring to the efficacy of the medicinal product SUTENTin the MRCC 
indication  have  not  been  supplied.  The  CHMP  consulted  the  Oncology  Scientific  Advisory  Group 
seeking  confirmation  about  the  interpretation  of  the  efficacy  results  in  the  context  of  the  non-
randomized  studies  presented.    The  advisory  group  concluded  that  the  phase  2  data  provided 
sufficiently convincing evidence of clinical benefit (see Risk-benefit assessment). 
Clinical safety 
Safety  analyses  are  based  on  patients  whose  starting  dose  was  50  mg  QD  on  Schedule  4/2.    This 
includes not only the 257 GIST and 169 MRCC patients in the 2 pivotal and 2 supportive studies who 
were on this regimen, but also a further 36 patients with other malignancies from early clinical trials. 
Safety data for 126 subjects in Phase 1 single-dose studies, which relate primarily to DLTs, are also 
presented.  
A  number  of  other  clinical  trials  of  sunitinib  are  currently  ongoing.  Critical  safety  data    (as  of  01 
December 2004) will be presented for 424 subjects in 10 ongoing studies, including 34 subjects with 
MRCC  and  4  with  GIST  treated  with  sunitinib  as  a  single  agent.  These  data  include  subject 
demographic and other characteristics, treatment-emergent all-causality serious adverse events (SAEs) 
(including deaths), and discontinuations due to treatment-emergent all-causality adverse events (AEs). 
•  Patient exposure 
Extent  of  exposure  to  sunitinib  is  summarized  in  Table  19.  Exposure  tended  to  be  longer  among  
MRCC patients  than  GIST patients. To a great extent, this is a consequence of the positive outcome 
of the Study A6181004 interim analysis, which occurred while patients were still being recruited: the 
result  was  that  about  half  the  patients  were  enrolled  during  the  last  5.3  months  of  the  patient 
recruitment  period  (25  July  2004 – 01  January  2005),  and  the  median  number  of  treatment  cycles 
possible was 3.  Placebo subjects in GIST Study A6181004 had the option of crossing-over to open-
label sunitinib treatment after demonstration of disease progression; 59 subjects did so, accounting for 
36/47 
©EMEA 2006 
the  relatively  short  time  they  stayed  on  this  treatment  relative  to  patients  who  were  initially 
randomized to sunitinib. 
Table 19. 
Exposure to Study Drug 
Solid Tumors MRCC 
GIST 
(N=450) 
(N=169) 
Sunitinib 
(N=257) 
Placebo 
(N=102) 
98 (71.4) 
84 (1-334) 
114 (75.1) 
106 (5-297)  69 (1-324) 
90 (65.5) 
46 (32.8) 
30 (2-168) 
450 (100.0)  169 (100.0)  257 (100.0)  102 (100.0) 
418 (92.9) 
171 (38.0) 
33 (7.3) 
158 (112.7)  184 (117.6)  142 (103.3)  73 (50.6) 
131 (6-531)  169 (6-484)  125 (15-496)  43 (16-252) 
237 (92.2) 
82 (31.9) 
9 (3.5) 
160 (94.7) 
81 (47.9) 
21 (12.4) 
95 (93.1) 
6 (5.9) 
0 (0) 
Days of drug administrationa          
    Mean (SD) 
    Median (min-max) 
Patients on treatment, n (%) 
    ≥1 day 
    ≥1 month 
    ≥6 months 
    ≥12 months 
    Mean (SD) b
    Median (min-max) b
a Excludes 2-week rest period 
b Includes 2-week rest period 
•  Adverse events  
The  most  important  treatment-related  serious  adverse  events  associated  with  SUTENTtreatment  of 
solid  tumour  patients  were  pulmonary  embolism  (1%),  thrombocytopenia  (1%),  tumour  hemorrhage 
(0.9%),  febrile  neutropenia  (0.4%),  and  hypertension  (0.4%).  The  most  common  treatment-related 
adverse  events  (experienced  by  at  least  20%  of  the  patients)  of  any  grade  included:  fatigue; 
gastrointestinal  disorders,  such  as  diarrhea,  nausea,  stomatitis,  dyspepsia and  vomiting;  skin 
discoloration; dysgeusia and anorexia. Fatigue, hypertension and neutropenia were the most common 
treatment-related  adverse  events  of  Grade 3  maximum  severity  and  increased  lipase  was  the  most 
frequently  occurring  treatment-related  adverse  event  of  Grade 4  maximum  severity  in  patients  with 
solid tumours. 
Adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions that were reported in >5% of solid tumor patients are listed below, by system organ 
class,  frequency  and  grade  of  severity.  Within  each  frequency  grouping,  undesirable  effects  are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
System Organ 
Class 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
Frequency 
Very Common 
Event 
All Grades 
n (%) 
Anaemia 
57 (12.7%) 
Thrombocytopenia   49 (10.9%) 
48 (10.7%) 
Neutropenia 
38 (8.4%) 
Leukophenia 
Grade 3 
n (%) 
21 (4.7%) 
12 (2.7%) 
26 (5.8%) 
18 (4.0%) 
Grade 4 
n (%) 
1 (0.2%) 
4 (0.9%) 
2 (0.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Very Common  Anorexia 
97 (21.6%) 
2 (0.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Very Common 
Dysgeusia 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Common 
Very Common  Hypertension 
125 (27.8%)  0 (0.0%) 
3 (0.7%) 
56 (12.4%) 
2 (0.4%) 
25 (5.6%) 
26 (5.8%) 
74 (16.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Common 
Epistaxis 
34 (7.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
37/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequency 
Event 
Dyspnoea 
All Grades 
n (%) 
23 (5.1%) 
Grade 3 
n (%) 
2 (0.4%) 
Grade 4 
n (%) 
1 (0.2%) 
System Organ 
Class 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Very Common 
Common 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Very Common 
Muscoloskeletal, 
connective tissue 
and bone 
disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
176 (39.1%)  18 (4.0%) 
160 (35.6%)  4 (0.9%) 
122 (27.1%)  8 (1.8%) 
108 (24.0%)  3 (0.7%) 
100 (22.2%)  3 (0.7%) 
1 (0.2%) 
47 (10.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
46 (10.2%) 
6 (1.3%) 
36 (8.0%) 
1 (0.2%) 
32 (7.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
31 (6.9%) 
0  0.0%) 
27 (6.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
23 (5.1%) 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Stomatitis 
Dyspepsia 
Vomiting 
Constipation 
Glossodynia 
Abdominal pain. 
Oral pain 
Flatulence 
Dry mouth 
Gastro-oesophageal 
reflux disease 
Skin discolouration  132 (29.3%)  0 (0.0%) 
20 (4.4%) 
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome 
Rash 
Hair colour 
changes 
Alopecia 
Dry skin 
Erythema 
Pain in Extremity 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
27 (6.0%) 
39 (8.7%) 
32 (7.1%) 
42 (9.3%) 
29 (6.4%) 
23 (5.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (0.4%) 
1 (0.2%) 
2 (0.4%) 
76 (16.9%) 
56 (12.4%) 
3 (0.7%) 
0 (0.0%) 
77 (17.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.2%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Fatigue 
Mucosal 
Inflammation 
Asthenia 
Lipase increase 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increase  
Any adverse event 
219 (48.7%)  37 (8.2%) 
2 (0.4%) 
65 (14.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
41 (9.1%) 
33 (7.3%) 
24 (5.3%) 
10 (2.2%) 
17 (3.8%) 
1 (0.2%) 
0 (0.0%) 
8 (1.8%) 
2 (0.4%) 
412 (91.6%)  176(39.1%) 
40 (8.9%) 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
6.4% of patients with solid tumors died during the treatment period or the follow-up period (28 to 30 
days, depending on the protocol). The death rate was comparable in the GIST and MRCC populations. 
Study disease was the most common cause of death in all groups.  
 On-Study Deaths 
Solid Tumors 
MRCC 
GIST 
(N=450) 
(N=169) 
Sunitinib 
(N=257) 
Placebo 
(N=102) 
38/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 (1.1) 
25 (5.6) 
0  
1 (0.2) 
29 (6.4) b
Study drug a
2 (2.0) 
8 (7.8) 
Study disease 
0 
Other 
0 
Not determined 
8 (7.8) b
Total 
a  If the relationship to study drug was unknown, the event was considered to be related to 
treatment 
b  Dual causality (study drug and study disease) was assigned to 2 of the deaths in the 
sunitinib-treated GIST group (which is included in the Solid Tumor group) and to 2 
deaths in the placebo-treated group. 
4 (1.6) 
15 (5.8) 
0 
0 
17 (6.6) b
1 (0.6) 
7 (4.1) 
0  
1 (0.6) 
9 (5.3) b
Among  all  patients  with  solid  malignant  tumors,  174 of 450  (38.7%)  patients  experienced  at  least  1 
treatment-emergent all-causality SAE. The overall incidence of all-causality SAEs was comparable in 
the  sunitinib-treated  GIST  and  MRCC  populations.  Fewer  SAEs  were  reported  from  the  placebo-
treated GIST population. 
Among  solid  tumor  patients,  87  of  the  450  patients  (19.3%)  experienced  at  least  1  such  SAE. 
Treatment-related  SAEs  were  reported  more  frequently  in  the  sunitinib-treated  GIST  population 
(23.0%) than in the MRCC population (14.2%), and only 4.9% of the placebo-treated subjects from 
GIST Study A6181004 were reported with a treatment-related SAE. To some extent, the lower SAE 
rate among placebo patients may be related to their shorter time on treatment.  Although nearly 20% of 
solid  tumor  patients  experienced  a  treatment-related  SAE,  there  was  a  diverse  assortment  of  such 
events,  with  none  really  predominating  and  no  clear  pattern  emerging.  No  individual  event  was 
reported as a treatment-related SAE in more than 2% of patients in any group. 
•  Laboratory findings 
The  most  common  Grade  4  chemistry  abnormalities  in  the  All  Solid  Tumours  group  were 
hyperuricemia  (40/423,  9.5%)  and  increased  lipase  (9/423,  2.1%).  No  other  Grade  4  laboratory 
abnormality  occurred  in  more  than  1%  of  patients.  The  most  common  (>5%)  Grade  3  chemistry 
abnormalities in this group were hyperlipasemia (50/423, 11.8%), hypophosphatemia (27/432, 6.3%), 
and hyperamylasemia (23/423, 5.4%). 
These laboratory changes were generally not associated with signs and symptoms of disease. Only 2 
adverse events relating to pancreatitis were reported from these studies: a GIST patient with a history 
of chronic pancreatitis diagnosed at least 2 years prior to her first dose of sunitinib was reported with 
an  SAE  of  ‘acute  pancreatitis’  during  treatment  cycle  5,  and  an  MRCC  patient,  whose  radiologic 
reports  raised  the  possibility  of  evidence  of  direct  tumours  extension  to  the  pancreas,  was  reported 
with an SAE of ‘pancreatitis’ in cycle 3. There were no reported cases of gout or other manifestations 
of hyperuricemia.  
For  hematologic  abnormalities,  decreases  of  Grade  3  or  4  severity  in  the  solid  tumours  group  were 
seen for decreases in lymphocyte count (73/429, 17.0%), absolute neutrophil count (60/429, 14.0%), 
total  white  blood  cell  count  (34/429,  7.9%),  and  platelet  count  (19/429,  4.5%).  However, 
corresponding  clinical  conditions  were  considerably  rarer:  for  instance,  febrile  neutropenia  was 
reported as  an adverse  event in only 2 solid tumours patients (0.4%), both of whom were  sunitinib-
treated GIST patients . 
•  Safety in special populations 
Sunitinib is indicated in adults only, and had not been studied in children or adolescents as of the data 
cutoffs used for these data analyses.  
The integrated safety database includes 335 subjects between the ages of 18 and 65 and 115 subjects 
65 or older.  Analysis of adverse event data shows that the safety profile was broadly similar between 
these 2 age groups, with no particular safety concerns particular to either group  
No  clinical  studies  have  been  conducted  to  evaluate  the  PK  of  sunitinib  in  patients  with  renal  or 
hepatic  impairment.  Angiogenesis  is  a  critical  component  of  embryonic  and  fetal  development.  In 
preclinical studies, sunitinib was embryolethal, and when administered to rats during organogenesis at 
a  dose  approximately  equivalent  to  the  registration  clinical  dose  of  50  mg  daily,  it  was  a 
39/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
developmental toxicant, resulting in an increased incidence of foetal skeletal malformations, especially 
thoracic/lumbar  vertebral  alterations  (retarded  ossification).    No  clinical  studies  with  sunitinib  have 
been conducted in pregnant women, and no pregnancies occurred during clinical studies of sunitinib.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Concurrent  administration  of  a  single  dose  of  sunitinib  (10  mg)  with  the  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitor, 
ketoconazole  (400  mg  QD),  to  healthy  subjects  in Study  RTKC-0511-009  resulted  in  an  increase  of 
the mean sunitinib Cmax by 59% and area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to 
time  of  the  last  measurable  concentration  (AUC0-last)  by  76%,  as  compared  with  administration  of 
sunitinib alone. At the same time, a decrease in the mean SU012662 Cmax by 29% and AUC0-last by 
16% was observed upon combined administration of sunitinib and ketoconazole. 
Concurrent  administration  of  a  single  dose  of  sunitinib  (50  mg)  with  the  repeated  doses  of  a  potent 
CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin (600 mg QD), to healthy subjects in Study A6181001 resulted in reduction 
of the mean sunitinib Cmax by 56% and AUC0-last by 79%, as compared with administration of sunitinib 
alone. The mean SU012662 Cmax and AUC0-last increased, however, by 137% and 29%, respectively, 
upon combined administration of sunitinib and rifampin. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The following table displays the treatment-related adverse events that were associated with treatment 
discontinuations. Few of these occurred in more than 1 patient. 
Solid 
Tumors 
MRCC 
GIST 
(N=450) 
(N=169) 
Sunitinib 
(N=257) 
Placebo 
(N=102) 
Patients with AEs,n, % 
28 (6.2) 
15 (8.9) 
13 (5.1) 
2 (2.0) 
Anemia 
Ejection fraction abnormal 
Astenia 
Dyspnea 
Nausea 
3 (0.7) 
3 (0.7) 
2 (0.4) 
2 (0.4) 
2 (0.4) 
0 
3 (1.8) 
0 
1 (0.6) 
2 (1.2) 
3 (1.2) 
0 
2 (0.8) 
1 (0.4) 
0 
Other AEs (each reported by only 1 patient)  
29 
14 
15 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Fatigue,  gastrointestinal  disorders  (such  as  nausea,  diarrhea,  stomatitis,  dyspepsia,  constipation,  and 
vomiting),  and  anorexia  were  the  most  commonly  reported  all-causality  adverse  events.  Anemia, 
thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia were also noted, as was hypertension, the latter supported by vital 
sign data.  Most adverse events were  mild or moderate in severity, and in general were  manageable 
through  specific  therapies,  decreases  in  dosage,  or  by  delaying  the  next  treatment  cycle.  Although 
elevations  in  amylase  and  lipase  were  among  the  more  common  laboratory  abnormalities,  clinical 
pancreatitis  was  rare,  occurring  in  only  2  of  450  solid  tumor  patients  (1  of  whom  had  a  history  of 
chronic pancreatitis). Deaths related to cardiovascular event are reported in the treatment arm. In solid 
tumor patients, 19% experienced a treatment-related SAE. Adverse events that most commonly led to 
dose  reductions  or  delays  on  SUTENT  included  gastrointestinal  disorders  (23  patients,  11%)  and 
blood and lymphatic disorders (13 patients, 6%).  
Important identified risks with sunitinib are cardiac and hepatic toxicity. QT interval prolongation was 
investigated in a trial in 24 patients, aged 20-87 years, with advanced malignancies.  
At  approximately  twice  therapeutic  concentrations,  SUTENT  has  been  shown  to  prolong  the  QTcF 
interval  (Frederica’s  Correction).  There  were  no  patients  with  greater  than  grade  2  (CTCAE  v3.0) 
QT/QTc  interval  prolongation  and  no  patient  presented  with  a  cardiac  arrhythmia.  The  clinical 
relevance  of  the  effects  observed  is  unclear  and  will  depend  on  individual  patient  risk  factors  and 
susceptibilities present. SUTENT should be used with caution in patients with a known history of QT 
interval  prolongation,  patients  who  are  taking  antiarrhythmics,  or  patients  with  relevant  pre-existing 
40/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cardiac disease, bradycardia, or electrolyte disturbances. Concomitant treatment with potent CYP3A4 
inhibitors, which may increase sunitinib plasma concentrations, should be used with caution and the 
dose of SUTENT reduced. 
Important missing information is long tern toxicity data on cardiovascular safety. Even if toxicity was 
manageable with dose delay or reduction, long term safety needs to be further investigated for patients 
who will receive a long term treatment with the drug. Adequate information has been provided in the 
SPC  to  help treating  physicians  minimize  potential  sunitinib  toxicity,  and  to  minimise  the  incidence 
and severity of cardiac toxicity.  
There  is  no  experience  of  acute  over-dosage  with  SUTENT.  There  is  no  specific  antidote  for  over-
dosage  with  SUTENT  and  treatment  of  overdose  should  consist  of  general  supportive  measures.  If 
indicated, elimination of unabsorbed drug may be achieved by emesis or gastric lavage. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. A number of safety issues, including long-term toxicity  
will require routine pharmacovigilance, periodic monitoring and review of target adverse events from 
ongoing clinical trials (quarterly basis or earlier) and SAEs (monthly basis). The following studies 
have been conducted or are ongoing and are of particular relevance to address some of the safety 
issues: 
(cid:131)  A6181005  is  the  completed  QT  study  consisting  of  a  10  day  treatment  regimen:  LD:  200-225 
mg/day, MD: 50mg/day to achieve drug concentration around 200ng/mL. 
(cid:131)  A6181077 is an ongoing randomized phase 2 study of sunitinib vs. standard of care for patients 
with previously treated advanced triple receptor negative (ER, PR, and HER2) breast cancer. 
(cid:131)  A6181079  (hepatic  impairment  study)  is  a  Phase  1  study  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  mild  and 
moderate  impaired  hepatic  function  on  the  single-dose  pharmacokinetics  of  sunitinib  and  its  active 
metabolite,  SU012662  and  to  assess  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  a  single  dose  of  SU011248  in 
subjects with mild and moderate impaired hepatic function. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
QT prolongation 
Hypertension 
Haemorrhage 
(including tumour) 
Anaemia, 
neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia 
Hypothyroidism 
Use in patients 
with hepatic 
A6181005 QT study 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE  
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Study A6181077 with TSH testing  
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
A6181079 hepatic impairment study 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.4) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.4 and 4.8) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.4, 4.5, and 4.8) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.4 and 4.8) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.4 and 4.8) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 5.2) 
41/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
impairment 
Thromboembolic 
events 
Phototoxicity and 
skin discolouration 
Gastrointestinal 
perforation 
Carcinogenicity 
clinical trials and SAE 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Rodent carcinogenicity studies 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Fatigue & asthenia  Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Periodic review data from ongoing 
clinical trials and SAE 
Drug-drug 
interaction caused 
by inhibition or 
induction of 
CYP3A4 and 
CYP1A2 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.4 and 4.8) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.4 and 4.8) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.4) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 5.3) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.8) 
Provide information in the SPC (see 
section 4.2, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.2) 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
An updated Risk Management Plan, as per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for 
medicinal products for human use, should be submitted at the same time as the PSURs, within 60 days 
of an important (Pharmacovigilance or Risk minimisation) milestone being reached or when the 
results of a study becoming available or at the request of the Competent authority. 
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The Quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on 
the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
In  rat  and  monkey  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  up  to  9-months  duration,  the  primary  target  organ 
effects were identified in the gastrointestinal tract (emesis and diarrhoea in monkeys), adrenal gland 
(cortical  congestion  and/or  haemorrhage  in  rats  and  monkeys,  with  necrosis  followed  by  fibrosis  in 
rats), haemolymphopoietic system (bone  morrow hypocelularity, and lymphoid depletion of thymus, 
spleen,  and  lymph  node),  exocrine  pancreas  (acinar  cell  degranulation  with  single  cell  necrosis), 
salivary gland (acinar hypertrophy), bone joint (growth plate thickening), uterus (atrophy) and ovaries 
(decreased  follicular  development).  All  findings  occurred  at  clinically  relevant  sunitinib  plasma 
exposure  levels.    Additional  effects,  observed  in  other  studies  included  QTc  interval  prolongation, 
LVEF  reduction,  pituitary  hypertrophy,  and  testicular  tubular  atrophy,  increased  mesangial    cells  in 
kidney, haemorrhage in GI tract and oral mucosa, and hypertrophy of anterior pituitary cells. Changes 
in  the  uterus  (endometrial  atrophy)  and  bone  growth  plate  (physeal  thickening  or  dysplasia  of 
cartilage) are thought to be related to the pharmacological action of sunitinib. Most of these findings 
were reversible after 2 to 6 weeks without treatment. 
42/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The genotoxic potential of sunitinib was assessed in vitro and in vivo. Sunitinib was not mutagenic in 
bacteria  using  metabolic  activation  provided  by  rat  liver.  Sunitinib  did  not  induce  structural 
chromosome aberrations in human peripheral blood lymphocyte cells in vitro. Polyploidy (numerical 
chromosome aberrations) was observed in human peripheral blood lymphocytes in vitro, both in the 
presence  and  absence  of  metabolic  activation.  Sunitinib  was  not  clastogenic  in  rat  bone  marrow 
in vivo. The major active metabolite was not evaluated for genetic toxicity potential. 
Carcinogenicity studies with sunitinib malate have not been performed.  
No  effects  on  fertility  were  observed  in  male  rats  dosed  for  58  days  prior  to  mating  with  untreated 
females. No reproductive effects were observed in female rats treated for 14 days prior to mating with 
untreated males, at doses resulting in systemic exposures approximately 5 times the systemic exposure 
in  patients.  However,  in  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  performed  in  rats  and  monkeys,  effects  on 
female  fertility  were  observed  in  the  form  of  follicular  atresia,  degeneration  of  corpora  lutea, 
endometrial  changes  in  the  uterus  and  decreased  uterine  and  ovarian  weights  at  clinically  relevant 
systemic exposure levels. Moreover in repeat-dose toxicity studies conducted in rats, effects on male 
fertility  were  observed  in  the  form  of  tubular  atrophy  in  the  testes,  reduction  of  spermatozoa  in 
epididimes  and  colloid  depletion  in  prostate  and  seminal  vesicles  at  plasma  exposure  levels  18-fold 
higher than is observed in clinic. Not all the effects observed in male rats were reversible at the end of 
the recovery period (6 weeks). 
No specifically designed perinatal and postnatal development animal studies have been conducted. 
In rats, treatment-related embryo-foetal mortality was evident as significant reductions in the number 
of  live  foetuses,  increased  numbers  of  resorptions  (early  and  total);  corresponding  increased 
postimplantation loss, and total litter loss in 8 of 28 pregnant females at plasma exposure levels 5.5-
fold higher than is observed in clinic. In rabbits, reductions in gravid uterine weights and number of 
live  foetuses  were  due  to  increases  in  the  number  of  resorptions  (early  and  total),  increases  in 
postimplantation loss and complete litter loss in 4 of 6 pregnant females at plasma exposure levels 3-
fold higher than is observed in clinic. 
Sunitinib  treatment  in  rats  during  organogenesis  resulted  in  developmental  effects  at  ≥5  mg/kg/day 
consisted  of  increased  incidence  of  foetal  skeletal  malformations,  predominantly  characterized  as 
retarded  ossification  of  thoracic/lumbar  vertebrae.  Developmental  effects  in  rats  occurred  at  plasma 
exposure levels 6-fold higher than is observed in clinic. In rabbits, developmental effects consisted of 
increased  incidence  of  cleft  lip  at  plasma  exposure  levels  approximately  equal  to  that  observed  in 
clinic, and cleft lip and cleft palate at plasma exposure levels 2.7-fold higher than is observed in clinic. 
A  definitive  rabbit  embryo-foetal  development  toxicity  study  was  not  conducted  as  embryo-foetal 
effects were clearly demonstrated in the rat and reported in the preliminary study conducted in rabbits. 
Efficacy 
The  demonstration  of  efficacy  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  malignant  gastrointestinal  stromal 
tumour (GIST) who were resistant or intolerant to imatinib is mainly based on a double blind, placebo 
controlled Phase III study (A6181004) that showed an increased TTP and overall survival for sunitinib 
compared to placebo. The demonstration of efficacy in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma 
(MRCC) who were refractory to prior cytokine therapy with interleukin-2 or interferon-α is based on 
two  single-arm,  open-label  phase  2  studies  showing  outstanding  results  in  terms  objective  response 
rate  in  a  homogenous  group  of  progressive  patients  with  a  predictable  outcome  of  the  disease.  The 
CHMP considers that efficacy results from a trial in first line will provide comprehensive clinical data 
about  the  product,  particularly  as  these  will  allow  to  confirm  that  treatment  with  SUTENT  is 
associated with an effect on important time-related clinical endpoints such as progression-free survival 
and  overall  survival  independent  of  patients  with  MRCC  who  have  failed  prior  cytokine  based 
treatment.  The  trial  for  which  data  is  requested  is  ongoing,  recruitment  has  been  completed  and  the 
requested results are expected in September 2006 
Safety 
The  most  important  treatment-related  serious  adverse  events  associated  with  SUTENT  treatment  of 
patients  with  solid  tumours  were  pulmonary  embolism  (1%),  thrombocytopoenia  (1%),  tumour 
haemorrhage  (0.9%),  febrile  neutropoenia  (0.4%),  and  hypertension  (0.4%).  The  most  common 
43/47 
©EMEA 2006 
treatment-related adverse events (experienced by at least 20% of the patients) of any grade included: 
fatigue; gastrointestinal disorders, such as diarrhoea, nausea, stomatitis, dyspepsia and vomiting; skin 
discolouration;  dysgeusia  and  anorexia.  Fatigue,  hypertension  and  neutropoenia  were  the  most 
common treatment-related adverse events of Grade 3 maximum severity and increased lipase was the 
most  frequently  occurring  treatment-related  adverse  event  of  Grade 4  maximum  severity  in  patients 
with solid tumours. 
Important  identified  risks  with  sunitinib  are  cardiac  toxicity,  thrombocytopenia  /  leucopenia    and 
hypertension. Important missing information is data on long term safety especially for cardiotoxicity. 
Adequate  information  has  been  provided  in  the  SPC  to  help  treating  physicians  minimize  potential 
sunitinib toxicity, and to minimise the incidence and severity cardiac toxicity. However, regarding the 
safety profile of sunitinib there are still uncertainties due to the limited size of the safety database. This 
is justified in view of the  unmet  medical need of these patients  with no other treatment options, but 
requires for the applicant to introduce specific procedures concerning the safety of the product. A risk 
management plan was submitted.   
The Applicant performed a user consultation testing on the package leaflet. The testing of the Patient 
Information  Leaflet  for  SUTENT  has  proved  the  document  to  be  well  designed  and  informative.  It 
exceeds all of the standards set for this form of testing with the answers to 98% of the questions asked 
found  ‘easily’  or  ‘very  easily’.  Only  2%  of  the  answers  to  the  questions  were  found  with  ‘some 
difficulty’.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the 
product information. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The clinical benefit of sunitinib in the treatment of GIST has been demonstrated in terms of relevant 
clinical endpoints such as time to progression and overall survival in patients who had failed or been 
unable to tolerate prior imatinib therapy. Taking into account the manageable toxicity, the risk-benefit 
of sunitinib in the claimed GIST indication is positive.  
Concerning the MRCC indication, the CHMP considered that comprehensive clinical data related to 
the  efficacy  of  SUTENT  have  not  been  supplied.  In  particular  the  submitted  studies  were  non-
randomized, and the effect of SUTENT in terms of relevant clinical endpoints such as PFS and OS is 
difficult  to  quantify  using  historically  comparisons.  The  CHMP  consulted  the  Oncology  Scientific 
Advisory  Group  (SAG)  seeking  confirmation  about  the  interpretation  of  the  efficacy  results  in  the 
context  of  the  non-randomized  studies  presented,  and  whether  the  population  in  the  two  studies 
representative  for  the  claimed  indication.  The  advice  of  the  SAG  was  that  clearly,  a  randomized 
controlled study would have provided the most convincing evidence of efficacy and clinical benefit. 
However, the response rate observed in the phase 2 trials was very high and it is very likely that this 
effect will translate into a clinically relevant effect on PFS and OS. Concerning the single-arm study 
and the historical comparison to placebo, the effect in terms of ORR is unprecedented, even with the 
most active available agents in a non-refractory population. The phase 2 data appeared to be of high 
quality,  with  radiological  confirmation  of  the  progressive  disease  at  study  entry,  and  independent 
evaluation  of  responses.  The  population  in  the  two  studies  is  considered  to  be  representative  for 
patients resistant or intolerant to first line cytokine based therapy. By protocol, all patients included in 
the  studies  were  progressive  to  cytokine  treatment  as  specified  by  the  study  design,  and  this  was 
indeed confirmed. The results were consistent across the two studies. Although the majority of patients 
had  kidney  cancer  of  clear  cell  type,  the  data  are  few  and  the  potential  implications  for  efficacy  or 
safety in different subtypes of MRCC are unknown. Although the issue is of some academic interest, 
due  to  the  small  number  of  patients  with  other  histology,  and  the  number  of  potentially  important 
factors, it is difficult to address these scientific issues within a reasonable timeframe. It is unlikely that 
the  preliminary  information  available  would  allow  to  select  responders.  The  disease  and  patient 
characteristics for patients recruited in the studies should be made clear in the SPC as this may help to 
guide  treatment  decisions,  together  with  all  other  information  but  not  to  restrict  the  potential 
indication. Overall, the advisory group concluded that the phase 2 data provide sufficiently convincing 
44/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
evidence of clinical benefit, and a manageable toxicity. When available, results from the randomized 
trial  in  first  line  might  provide  useful  supportive  evidence  and  add  to  the  overall  confidence  of  the 
conclusions based on the phase 2 data.  
The  CHMP  considered  the  advice  from  the  advisory  group  and  concluded  that  although 
comprehensive clinical data related to the efficacy of SUTENT in MRCC have not been supplied, a 
dramatic  effect  unlikely  to  have  occurred  spontaneously  has  been  observed  in  terms  of  objective 
response rate in patients with MRCC who have failed prior cytokine-based treatment. The population 
is considered sufficiently homogeneous with a predictable outcome to allow reliable conclusions about 
the  efficacy  of  SUTENT  in  terms  of  ORR  from  a  historical  comparison  to  no  active  treatment. 
However, ORR per se cannot be considered a direct measure of clinical benefit. In this setting, due to 
the poor prognosis and the lack of effective treatment, a clinical benefit would generally require the 
presence of effects in terms of PFS or OS.  
Due  to  the  design,  it  is  difficult  to  estimate  the  size  of  the  effect  in  terms  of  time-related  clinical 
endpoints such as PFS or OS. In terms of these endpoints, a reliable historical comparison to no active 
treatment  is  not  possible  based  on  the  available  data.  Nevertheless,  the  magnitude  of  the  observed 
biological  effect  in  terms  of  ORR  provides  sufficient  confidence  to  conclude  that  this  will  also 
translate  into  some  effect  in  terms  of  PFS  or  OS  in  patients  with  MRCC  who  have  failed  prior 
cytokine-based treatment, although the exact size of the effect is difficult to assess. Thus, despite the 
existing  uncertainty  about  the  precise  effect  in  terms  of  time-related  clinical  endpoints,  the  efficacy 
can be considered sufficiently established to allow a conclusion on the benefits in this indication.  
The  efficacy  results  from  the  ongoing  randomized  trial  in  first  line  could  in  principle  provide 
comprehensive  clinical  data  to  confirm  that  treatment  with  SUTENT  is  associated  with  an  effect  on 
important clinical endpoints. Although the ongoing trial involves an active control and patients in an 
earlier  stage  of  treatment,  based  on  pharmacological  and  biological  grounds,  the  demonstration  of  a 
favourable  effect  in  first-line  would  be  considered  relevant  also  for  patients  with  MRCC  who  have 
failed prior cytokine-based treatment confirming the existence of an effect in terms of relevant clinical 
endpoints even if the precise magnitude of this effect would not be known in this indication.  
The data presented support a clinical benefit for sunitinib in the treatment of patients with MRCC who 
have failed prior cytokine-based treatment. Taking into account the favourable safety profile observed, 
the risk-benefit of sunitinib in the MRCC indication is considered positive. However, comprehensive 
clinical data in the MRCC indication are not yet available, and the CHMP, having consulted with the 
applicant, has proposed the granting of a conditional marketing authorization.  
The CHMP considers, that the medical product SUTENT (sunitinib malate) falls within the scope of 
Regulation (EC) No 507/2006, with particular reference to Article 2, based on the following grounds: 
SUTENT  (sunitinib  malate)  has  been  designated  as  orphan  medicinal  product  in  accordance  with 
Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000. In addition, patients with GIST that are not amenable to 
curative treatment and that have failed imatinib mesylate treatment, and patients with MRCC that have 
failed  prior  cytokine-based  treatment  have  a  poor  long-term  prognosis  in  terms  of  overall  survival. 
Thus, SUTENT is a medicinal product, which aims at the treatment of a seriously debilitating and life-
threatening disease. 
The  CHMP  considers,  that  SUTENT  fulfils  the  requirements  of  Article  4  of  Regulation  (EC)  No 
507/2006 based on the following grounds: 
(a)  The  clinical  benefit  of  sunitinib  in  the  treatment  of  GIST  has  been  demonstrated  in  terms  of 
relevant clinical endpoints such as time to progression and overall survival in patients who had failed 
or  been  unable  to  tolerate  prior  imatinib  therapy.  For  the  MRCC  indication,  sunitinib  has  shown  an 
outstanding antitumor activity in terms of objective response rate.  
The safety profile was considered acceptable for both indications.  
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered that the 
risk-benefit balance of Sutent, as defined in Article 1(28a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for the treatment 
of gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) after failure of imatinib mesylate treatment due to resistance 
or intolerance, and for the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (MRCC) after failure of 
cytokine-based therapy, was positive. 
45/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
(b)  The  CHMP  considers  that  efficacy  results  from  the  study  A618034  in  cytokine-naive  MRCC 
patients  will  provide  comprehensive  clinical  data,  particularly  as  these  will  allow  to  confirm  that 
treatment with SUTENT is associated with an effect on important time-related clinical endpoints such 
as progression-free survival and overall survival independent of patients with MRCC who have failed 
prior cytokine based treatment. The trial for which data is requested is ongoing, recruitment has been 
completed and the requested results are expected in September 2006. Thus, the CHMP considers that 
it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the comprehensive clinical data.  
(c) No satisfactory methods of treatment that have been authorised, exist in the Community for 
patients with GIST after failure of imatinib mesylate treatment due to resistance or intolerance. The 
clinical benefit observed for sunitinib in terms of overall survival and progression-free survival will 
fulfil an unmet need in these patients. 
No satisfactory methods of treatment that have been authorised, exist in the Community for patients 
with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (MRCC) who have failed prior cytokine-based treatment. Despite 
other agents that have shown activity in this setting, such as different regimens of cytokines and novel 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as sorafenib, there remains a large unmet medical need in the treatment 
of this condition. The demonstration of efficacy in patients with MRCC who were refractory to prior 
cytokine therapy with interleukin-2 or interferon-α is based on the proportion of patients achieving an 
objective response (i.e. a major shrinkage of the overall tumor burden) observed in two single-arm, 
open-label phase II studies. In one study the objective response rate (ORR) was 36.5% (95% C.I. 
24.7% - 49.6%).  In the second study, ORR was 35.8% (95% C.I. 26.8% - 45.7%). These results were 
observed in a homogenous group of progressive patients with a predictable outcome of the disease. 
The effect in terms of ORR was unprecedented, even with the most active available agents in a non-
refractory population for which response rates in the order of 5 to 15% have been reported. Also, the 
response rate observed for sunitinib was much higher than the reported proportion of patients with an 
objective response for the novel targeted kinase agent sorafenib (2.1%). Overall, compared to other 
agents that have shown activity in this MRCC, sunitinib appeared to have a distinct pharmacodynamic 
profile, and the proportion of patients achieving an objective response observed for sunitinib in this 
MRCC patient population was very high compared to what has been reported for other agents 
including sorafenib.  
Therefore the CHMP considers that unmet medical needs will be fulfilled for patients with MRCC 
who have failed prior cytokine-based treatment. 
 (d) New treatments having an effect in terms of relevant clinical endpoints are of immediate relevance 
to  patients  with  GIST  after  failure  of  imatinib  mesylate  treatment  or  MRCC  who  have  failed  prior 
cytokine-based treatment. Although comprehensive data are not available to allow precise estimation 
of the benefits in patients with MRCC who have failed prior cytokine-based treatment, in view of the 
efficacy  of  the  product  and  the  poor  prognosis,  lack  of  comprehensive  data  poses  no  risks  that 
outweigh  the  benefits.  Therefore  the  CHMP  considers  that  the  benefit  to  public  health  of  the 
immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product concerned outweighs the risk inherent 
in the fact that additional data are still required. 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The  Applicant  has  claimed  that  at  the  time  of  submission  of  the  application  the  orphan  medicinal 
product Glivec has been granted a marketing authorisation in the EU, and that SUTENT is not similar 
to any of the authorised Orphan medicinal products (as defined in Art. 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC) No 847/2000) for a condition relating to the proposed therapeutic indication. 
The CHMP concluded, having considered the arguments presented by the applicant, the Rapporteurs 
assessment, and the conclusions of the Quality working Party, there are substantial differences in the 
mechanism of action of the two active substances. Imatinib does not inhibit sunitinib target receptor 
tyrosine kinases including VEGFR-1,  VEGFR-2, FLT-3, or CSF-1R at concentrations up to 10 µM. 
Furthermore, secondary mutations in the ATP-binding site of KIT that cause resistance to inhibition 
by imatinib, seems to be still sensitive to inhibition by sunitinib. 
In  addition,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  sunitinib  and  imatinib  are  not  similar  in  terms  of  molecular 
structural aspects on the basis of the difference in principal molecular structural features of the active 
46/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
moieties in each case. Both molecules belong to different classes of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and the 
only  identical  chemical  feature  present  in  both  chemical  structures  of  sunitinib  and  imatinib  is  the 
amide group, a very common structural group in pharmaceutical substances.  
The CHMP is of the opinion that SUTENT is not similar to any authorised orphan medicinal products 
within the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200. (See Appendix 1) 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of SUTENT in the treatment  of unresectable and/or metastatic 
malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumour after failure of imatinib mesylate treatment due to resistance 
or intolerance, and in the treatment of advanced and/or metastatic metastatic renal cell carcinoma after 
failure of cytokine-based therapy  was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
conditional marketing authorisation, subject to the following specific obligation: to provide results of 
an ongoing study in cytokine-naive patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma by September 2006.
In addition, the CHMP, with reference to Article 8 of Regulation EC No 141/2000, considers 
SUTENT not to be similar (as defined in Article 3 of Commission Regulation EC No. 847/2000) to 
authorised orphan medicinal products for the same therapeutic indication. 
47/47 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
