EMA/357752/2018  
EMEA/H/C/003708 
Sylvant (siltuximab) 
An overview of Sylvant and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Sylvant and what is it used for? 
Sylvant is a medicine that is used to treat multicentric Castleman’s disease in adults who are not 
infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8). 
Castleman’s disease is a disorder of the lymphatic system (a network of vessels that transport fluid 
from tissues through the lymph nodes and into the bloodstream) in which cells in lymph nodes start 
growing abnormally, causing benign tumours. Multicentric means that the disease affects several 
lymph nodes as well as other organs in the body. Symptoms can include tiredness, sweating at night, 
fever, peripheral neuropathy (pins and needles due to nerve damage) and swelling of liver and spleen. 
Castleman’s disease is rare, and Sylvant was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 30 November 2007. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
Sylvant contains the active substance siltuximab. 
How is Sylvant used? 
Sylvant can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be given by qualified healthcare 
professionals and under appropriate medical supervision. It is given by infusion (drip) into a vein. The 
recommended dose is 11 mg per kilogram body weight, and the infusion should last around one hour. 
Sylvant is given every three weeks, until the patient no longer benefits from treatment. 
During the first 12 months of treatment the patient should have a blood test before each dose of 
Sylvant, and every nine weeks afterwards; treatment may need to be delayed in patients whose blood 
tests are abnormal or who have certain side effects.  
For more information about using Sylvant, see the summary of product characteristics or contact a 
doctor or pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Sylvant work? 
The active substance in Sylvant, siltuximab, is a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal antibody is a type 
of protein that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure (called an antigen) in 
the body. Siltuximab has been designed to attach to a protein in the body called interleukin 6 (IL-6). 
Patients with Castleman’s disease produce too much IL-6 and this is thought to contribute to the 
abnormal growth of certain cells in the lymph nodes. By attaching to IL-6, siltuximab blocks its activity 
and stops abnormal cell growth, thus reducing the size of the lymph nodes and the symptoms of the 
disease. 
What benefits of Sylvant have been shown in studies? 
Sylvant has been investigated in one main study involving 79 adults with multicentric Castleman’s 
disease who did not have HIV or HHV-8 infection. The effect of the medicine was compared with 
placebo (a dummy treatment) and the main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients 
who responded to treatment for at least 18 weeks, as shown by a 50% reduction (‘partial response’) or 
complete disappearance (‘complete response’) of tumours and symptoms of the disease. 
Sylvant was more effective than placebo in reducing tumour size and disease symptoms: 17 out of 53 
patients who received Sylvant showed a partial response and one showed a complete response, 
compared with none of the 26 patients who received placebo. This effect was maintained for almost 
one year. 
What are the risks associated with Sylvant? 
The most common side effects with Sylvant (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are infections 
(including upper respiratory tract infections such as those of the throat and nose), itching, rash, joint 
pain and diarrhoea. The most serious side effect is anaphylactic reaction (a severe allergic reaction). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Sylvant, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Sylvant authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Sylvant’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The Agency concluded that Sylvant has shown beneficial effect by 
reducing tumour size and symptoms in patients with multicentric Castleman’s disease, and that this 
positive effect seems to be maintained over time. The Agency also acknowledged that there is an 
unmet medical need for these patients. Side effects of Sylvant were considered acceptable but further 
long-term data are to be collected. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Sylvant? 
The company that markets Sylvant is required to set up a patient registry to provide further data on 
long-term safety. The company will ensure that healthcare professionals who are expected to use the 
medicine are provided with information on how to enter their patients in the registry. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Sylvant have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Sylvant (siltuximab)  
EMA/357752/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Sylvant are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Sylvant are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Sylvant 
Sylvant received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 May 2014. 
Further information on Sylvant can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2018. 
Sylvant (siltuximab)  
EMA/357752/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
