Summary of Risk Management Plan for Symkevi (tezacaftor/ivacaftor) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Symkevi when used in a 
combination regimen with ivacaftor tablets. The RMP details important risks of Symkevi 
in combination ivacaftor, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Symkevi’s risks and uncertainties (missing information) in 
combination with ivacaftor. 
Symkevi's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Symkevi should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Symkevi used in combination with ivacaftor should be 
read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the 
evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Symkevi's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Symkevi in a combination regimen with ivacaftor tablets is authorised for the treatment of 
patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 6 years and older who are homozygous for the 
F508del mutation or who are heterozygous for the F508del mutation and have one of the 
following mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) 
gene: P67L, R117C, L206W, R352Q, A455E, D579G, 711+3A→G, S945L, S977F, 
R1070W, D1152H, 2789+5G→A, 3272-26A→G, and 3849+10kbC→T (see SmPC for 
the full indication). It contains tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor as the active 
substance and it is given orally.  
Further information about the evaluation of Symkevi's benefits in combination with 
ivacaftor can be found in Symkevi's EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, 
available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/symkevi 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of Symkevi in combination with ivacaftor, together with measures to 
minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Symkevi's risks in a 
combination with ivacaftor, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Symkevi in combination with 
ivacaftor is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Symkevi in combination with ivacaftor are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Symkevi in combination with ivacaftor. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
 None 
 Hepatotoxicity 
 Cataract 
 Use in pregnant and lactating women 
 Long-term safety 
 Patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment 
 Patients with ppFEV1 < 40 
 ppFEV1: forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product. 
Hepatotoxicity (important potential risk) 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Elevations in transaminases are common in patients with CF, and have been observed in 
some patients treated with TEZ/IVA, as well as with IVA monotherapy. Overall, the 
incidence of elevated liver function tests (LFTs) were well balanced between the TEZ/IVA 
or IVA monotherapy groups compared to the placebo group in the placebo-controlled 
Phase 3 studies. However, in the IVA programme, increased ALT or AST has been 
reported slightly more frequently in the subset of patients with a medical history of 
elevated transaminases who received IVA monotherapy, compared to placebo. The 
potential role of IVA monotherapy or TEZ/IVA is uncertain, and cannot be fully excluded. 
The data from the open-label extension study in patients 12 years and older are consistent 
with the placebo-controlled trials.  
Only generally known risk factors for increases in LFTs were identified in several 
instances, including concurrent acute and chronic infections or illnesses (e.g., pulmonary 
exacerbation, flu like illness, haemoptysis, kidney infection), cystic fibrosis (CF), as well 
as concomitant drugs (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics) and substances (e.g., alcohol) 
known to be associated with LFT elevations. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.4 and 4.8 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Sections 2 and 4 where advice is given on monitoring LFTs 
PL Sections 2 and 4 
Prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
 Study 117 (PASS) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation development 
plan. 
Cataract (important potential risk) 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Lens opacities (cataracts) were observed in newborn rats and were considered related to 
IVA treatment. This finding has not been observed in older animals. Given species 
developmental differences between rats and humans, it is unlikely that the finding is 
relevant to humans 12 years of age and older.  
There is a high background rate of cataract in patients with CF. The placebo controlled 
ocular safety data in the TEZ/IVA and IVA clinical development programmes did not 
suggest any imbalance in cataract incidence between the TEZ/IVA or IVA monotherapy 
groups compared to the placebo groups. Cases of non-congenital lens opacities were 
reported in paediatric subjects with TEZ/IVA or IVA monotherapy; these cases involved 
subtle ophthalmological findings with no impact on visual acuity, and a lack of 
progression. Although risk factors (e.g., corticosteroid use, exposure to radiation) were 
present in some cases, a contributing role of TEZ/IVA or IVA monotherapy cannot be 
completely excluded. 
Risk factors for cataracts include aging, trauma, ultraviolet light and radiation exposure, 
diabetes mellitus, intraocular inflammation, CF, and systemic or topical corticosteroid use. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.4 and 5.3 
SmPC Section 4.4 where advice is given on recommended ophthalmological examinations.  
PL Section 2  
Prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation development 
plan. 
Use in pregnant and lactating women (missing information) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Long-term safety (missing information) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
SmPC Section 4.6 and 5.3 
SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2 where advice is given to 
avoid the use of Symkevi during pregnancy and to determine the 
use during breastfeeding after taking into account the benefit of 
breastfeeding the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
PL Section 2. 
Prescription only 
 Study 117 (PASS) 
SmPC Sections 4.8 and 5.1 
SmPC Sections 4.8 and 5.1 describe the available clinical 
evidence, including the number and extent of exposure in clinical 
studies.  
Prescription only 
 Study 117 (PASS) 
Patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (missing information) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.2 
SmPC Section 4.2 where advice is given on dose adjustment 
based on severity of hepatic impairment. 
PL Section 3. 
Prescription only 
 Study 117 (PASS) 
Patients with ppFEV1 <40 (missing information) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
SmPC Section 5.1 
Prescription only 
 Study 117 (PASS) 
ADR: adverse drug reaction; CF: cystic fibrosis; IVA: ivacaftor; LFT: liver function test; PK pharmacokinetics; 
PASS: Post-authorisation safety study; PL: Package Leaflet; ppFEV1: forced expiratory volume in 1 second ; 
SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics; TEZ/IVA: tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Symkevi in a combination regimen with ivacaftor tablets. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Short study name: Study 117 (PASS) 
Purpose of the study: Evaluate the utilisation patterns and real-world effects of TEZ/IVA 
therapy in patients with CF 
