EMA/543681/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004682 
Symkevi (tezacaftor / ivacaftor) 
An overview of Symkevi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Symkevi and what is it used for? 
Symkevi is a medicine used to treat cystic fibrosis in patients aged 6 years and above. Cystic fibrosis is 
an inherited disease that has severe effects on the lungs, the digestive system and other organs. 
Cystic fibrosis affects the cells that produce mucus and digestive juices. As a result, these secretions 
become thick and cause blockage. Build-up of thick and sticky secretions in the lungs causes 
inflammation and long-term infection. In the gut, blockage of the tubes from the pancreas slows down 
the digestion of food and causes poor growth. 
Symkevi is used in patients who have a mutation (change) called F508del in the gene for a protein 
called ‘cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator’ (CFTR).  
Symkevi is used in patients who have inherited the F508del mutation from both parents and therefore 
have the mutation in both copies of the CFTR gene. It is also used in patients who have inherited the 
F508del mutation from one parent and also have one of the following mutations in CFTR: P67L, R117C, 
L206W, R352Q, A455E, D579G, 711+3A→G, S945L, S977F, R1070W, D1152H, 2789+5G→A, 3272 
26A→G, or 3849+10kbC→T. 
Symkevi contains the active substances tezacaftor and ivacaftor.  
Cystic fibrosis is rare, and Symkevi was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 27 February 2017. Further information on the orphan designation can be found 
here:ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3171828. 
How is Symkevi used? 
Symkevi should only be prescribed by a doctor with experience in the treatment of cystic fibrosis, and 
only in patients confirmed to have the mutations mentioned above. 
Symkevi is available as tablets. Treatment is combined with a tablet containing ivacaftor alone.  
Symkevi should be taken in the morning and ivacaftor should be taken in the evening, about 12 hours 
later. The dose depends on the patient’s age and weight.  
The doses of Symkevi and ivacaftor may need to be adjusted if the patient is also taking a type of 
medicine called a ‘moderate or strong CYP3A inhibitor’, such as certain antibiotics or medicines for 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fungal infections. The doses may also need to be adjusted in patients with reduced liver function. 
For more information about using Symkevi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Symkevi work? 
Cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene. This gene makes the CFTR protein, which 
works on the surface of cells to regulate the production of mucus and digestive juices. The mutations 
reduce the number of CFTR proteins on the cell surface or affect the way the protein works. 
One of the active substances in Symkevi, tezacaftor, increases the number of CFTR proteins on the cell 
and the other, ivacaftor, increases the activity of the defective CFTR protein. These actions restore the 
activity of CFTR protein and make mucus and digestive juices less thick, thereby helping to relieve 
symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Symkevi have been shown in studies? 
Symkevi taken together with ivacaftor was effective at improving lung function in 3 main studies of 
patients with cystic fibrosis aged 6 years and above.  
In the first 2 studies, the main measure of effectiveness was improvement in patients’ FEV1. FEV1 is 
the maximum amount of air a person can breathe out in one second and is a measure of how well the 
lungs work. 
The first study involved 510 patients aged 12 years or above with cystic fibrosis who inherited the 
F508del mutation from both parents. Symkevi, taken with ivacaftor, was compared with placebo (a 
dummy treatment). After 24 weeks of treatment, patients who took the medicines had an average 
increase in FEV1 of 3.4 percentage points compared with a reduction of 0.6 percentage points in 
patients who took placebo. 
The second study involved 248 patients aged 12 years or above with cystic fibrosis who inherited the 
F508del mutation from one parent and also had another specific CFTR mutation. Symkevi, taken with 
ivacaftor, was compared with ivacaftor taken alone and with placebo. Lung function was measured 
after 4 weeks and 8 weeks of treatment. Patients who took Symkevi and ivacaftor had an average 
increase in FEV1 of 6.5 percentage points compared with an increase of 4.4 percentage points in 
patients who took ivacaftor alone and a reduction of 0.3 percentage points in patients who took 
placebo. 
The effectiveness of Symkevi in a comparable group of children with cystic fibrosis aged 6 to 11 years 
was supported by a study in 54 children aged 6 to 11 years . This study looked at the effect of 
Symkevi on lung clearance index (LCI2.5), which indicates how well air is exchanged in the lungs. A fall 
in LCI2.5 indicates improvement. At the start of the study patients’ LCI2.5 was on average 9.56. After 8 
weeks of treatment with Symkevi and ivacaftor, LCI2.5 decreased by 0.51. The effectiveness of 
Symkevi in children aged between 6 and 11 years was also supported by evidence that the medicine 
behaves in the same way in their body as in older patients. However the dose needs to be adjusted 
based on the patient’s  weight and age.  
What are the risks associated with Symkevi? 
The most common side effects with Symkevi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat). 
Symkevi (tezacaftor / ivacaftor)  
EMA/543681/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Symkevi, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Symkevi authorised in the EU? 
Symkevi is effective in patients with cystic fibrosis who have inherited the F508del mutation from both 
parents or patients who have the F508del mutation from one parent and certain other mutations. In 
the former group, Symkevi could be a treatment option for those who cannot take a combination of 
ivacaftor and lumacaftor (another cystic fibrosis medicine), due to side effects or interactions with 
other medicines they are taking. In the latter group, there is a lack of authorised therapies. Regarding 
safety, the side effects of Symkevi are considered acceptable. Therefore, the European Medicines 
Agency decided that Symkevi’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Symkevi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Symkevi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Symkevi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Symkevi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Symkevi 
Symkevi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 October 2018. 
Further information on Symkevi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/symkevi.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2020.  
Symkevi (tezacaftor / ivacaftor)  
EMA/543681/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
