EMA/353154/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004391 
Symtuza (darunavir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir 
alafenamide) 
An overview of Symtuza and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Symtuza and what is it used for? 
Symtuza is an antiviral medicine used to treat human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in adults 
and adolescents aged from 12 years (and weighing at least 40 kg). HIV-1 is a virus that causes 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).  
Symtuza contains the active substances darunavir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide. 
How is Symtuza used? 
Symtuza can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who is 
experienced in managing HIV infection.  
Symtuza is available as tablets, each containing 800 mg darunavir, 150 mg cobicistat, 200 mg 
emtricitabine and 10 mg tenofovir alafenamide. The recommended dose is one tablet a day, taken with 
food.  
For more information about using Symtuza, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Symtuza work? 
Symtuza contains four active substances which work in different ways against HIV: 
•  Darunavir is a type of antiviral agent called a ‘protease inhibitor’. It blocks protease, an enzyme of 
the virus that allows it to reproduce itself in the cells it has infected. By blocking protease, 
Symtuza reduces the amount of HIV-1 in the blood and keeps it at a low level.  
•  Cobicistat acts as a ‘booster’ to increase the effects of darunavir, by slowing down the breakdown 
of darunavir and therefore prolonging its antiviral activity in the body. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
• 
Tenofovir alafenamide is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning that it is converted into the active 
substance tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor, which means that it 
blocks the activity of the enzyme, reverse transcriptase, that the virus needs to reproduce itself.  
•  Emtricitabine is also a reverse transcriptase inhibitor and it works in the same way as tenofovir. 
Symtuza does not cure HIV-1 infection or AIDS, but it may hold off the damage to the immune system 
and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Symtuza have been shown in studies? 
Because the individual active substances of Symtuza have previously been shown to be effective and 
are authorised for use in the treatment of HIV infection, studies were mainly carried out to show that 
Symtuza produced similar levels of active substances in the blood as the active substances given 
separately. 
In addition, one main study compared Symtuza with another antiviral medicine containing darunavir, 
cobicistat, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil in 153 adult patients with HIV who had not been 
previously treated. Effectiveness was measured by a reduction in viral load (the amount of HIV-1 in 
the blood) to less than 50 copies/ml. Overall, 75% of patients taking Symtuza (77 patients out of 103) 
achieved this reduction after 24 weeks of treatment, which was similar to the 74% (37 of 50) of 
patients who achieved it with the comparator. 
What are the risks associated with Symtuza? 
The most common side effects with Symtuza (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
diarrhoea, headache and rash. For the full list of side effects reported with Symtuza, see the package 
leaflet. 
Symtuza must not be taken by patients with severely reduced liver function. It must also not be taken 
with certain medicines that can reduce the effectiveness of Symtuza, as well as medicines that can 
increase the risk of serious side effects. For more information on the medicines that should not be 
taken with Symtuza, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Symtuza authorised in the EU? 
The active substances in Symtuza have already been shown to be effective when used individually, and 
combining them in a single tablet simplifies treatment. Symtuza was also as effective as a similar 
combination medicine containing tenofovir disoproxil in place of tenofovir alafenamide. Because 
tenofovir alafenamide is effective at a lower dose than tenofovir disoproxil, Symtuza offers the 
possibility of reduced side effects. 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Symtuza’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Symtuza? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Symtuza have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Symtuza are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Symtuza are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Symtuza (darunavir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide)  
EMA/353154/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Symtuza 
Symtuza received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 September 2017. 
Further information on Symtuza can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/symtuza.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2019. 
Symtuza (darunavir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide)  
EMA/353154/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
