22 March 2018 
EMA/139142/2018  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Synagis  
palivizumab 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000257/P46/050 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
1.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
1.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study. .............................. 3 
1.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
1.2.2. Discussion on clinical aspects .............................................................................. 6 
2. Additional clarification requested ............................................................ 6 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 - 
Synagis  
Page 2/6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
1.  Introduction 
On  December  2017,  the  MAH  submitted  a  final  study  report  for  the  post-marketing  observational 
paediatric study M15-539, in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has been provided. 
The  MAH  states,  that  the  safety  and  effectiveness  of  this  study  is  consistent  with  the  previously 
established benefit risk profile of Synagis and does not recommend any changes to the SmPC. 
Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated and confirms that: 
Study  M15-539:  "A  Prospective,  International,  Multicenter,  Open-Label,  Non-Controlled  Study  of 
Safety and Effectiveness of Palivizumab, in Children at High Risk of Severe Respiratory Syncytial Virus 
(RSV)  Infection  in  the  Russian  Federation  and  the  Republic  of  Belarus”,-  this  study  is  a  stand-alone 
study and does not form part of a development programme. 
1.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study. 
Palivizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody (IgG1κ) specific for the fusion protein (F-protein) of 
RSV  that  has  potent  neutralizing  and  fusion-inhibitory  activity  against  a  broad  range  of  RSV  isolates. 
Based  on  clinical  studies  in  children  with  chronic  lung  disease  the  product  was  licensed  in  the  US  in 
1998 and in the EU in 1999. Further studies were subsequently conducted in different patient groups. 
The currently approved indications are: 
SYNAGIS  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  serious  lower  respiratory  tract  disease  requiring 
hospitalisation caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in children at high risk for RSV disease:  
• Children born at 35 weeks of gestation or less and less than 6 months of age at the onset of the RSV 
season.  
• Children less than 2 years of age and requiring treatment for bronchopulmonary dysplasia within the 
last 6 months.  
• Children less than 2 years of age and with haemodynamically significant congenital heart disease  
The  originally  approved  lyophilized  formulation,  is  currently  the  only  formulation  approved  in  the 
Russian Federation.  
In  the  EU,  the  liquid  solution  for  injection  formulation  of  palivizumab  has  also  been  approved  since 
August 2014.  
1.2.1.  Introduction 
Synagis  (Pavalizumab)  received  marketing  authorization  through  the  centralised  procedure  in  1999. 
Synagis  was  approved  for  the  prevention  of  serious  lower-respiratory-tract  disease  requiring 
hospitalisation caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in children at high risk for RSV disease: 
-children born at 35 weeks of gestation or less and less than six months of age at the onset of the RSV 
season; 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 - 
Synagis  
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
-children  less  than two  years  of  age  and  requiring  treatment  for  bronchopulmonary  dysplasia 
(BPD) within the last six months; 
-children  less  than two  years  of  age  and  with  haemodynamically  significant  congenital  heart  disease 
(HSCHD). 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
Study  M15-539  titled  "A  Prospective,  International,  Multicenter,  Open-label,Non-Controlled  Study  of 
Safety and Effectiveness of Palivizumab, in Children at High Risk of Severe Respiratory Syncytial Virus 
Infection in the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus."  
Methods 
Objective 
The primary objective of this study was to collect further data on safety and effectiveness of the liquid 
formulation  of  palivizumab  administered  as  monthly  intramuscular  (IM)  injections  among  preterm 
infants, infants with BPD, and infants with hemodynamically significant congenital heart disease in the 
Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. 
In  addition,  the  study  aimed  to  assess  several  secondary  objectives,  which  primarily  evaluated  the 
severity of disease. 
Study design 
This was a phase 3b, prospective, multicenter, open-label, non-controlled study of immunoprophylaxis 
with  the  intramuscular  (IM)  administration  of  palivizumab  for  the  prevention  of  severe  lower 
respiratory tract RSV infection in infants at high-risk of severe RSV infection (preterm infants, infants 
with BPD , and infants with HSCHD. The study was conducted over one RSV season (2016 – 2017) in 
the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus in routine clinical settings.  
Inclusion Criteria 
Infants  at  high  risk  of  severe  RSV  infection  defined as  preterm infants  born  ≤  35  weeks  GA  and  ≤  6 
months of age at enrollment; and/or infants ≤ 24 months of age at enrollment with a diagnosis of BPD 
requiring intervention/management any time within 6 months prior to enrollment; and/or infants ≤24 
months at enrollment with HSCHD (either cyanotic or acyanotic; unoperated or partially corrected). 
Exclusion Criteria 
1.  Hemodynamically  insignificant  small  atrial  or  ventricular  septal  defects,  patent  ductus  arteriosus, 
aortic stenosis, pulmonic stenosis, or coarctation of the aorta alone.  
2. Hospitalized at the time of enrollment 
3. On mechanical ventilation at the time of enrollment (including continuous positive airway pressure 
[CPAP]). 
4. Life expectancy of < 6 months 
5. Unstable cardiac or respiratory status (including severe cardiac defects) 
6. Active respiratory illness or other acute infections. 
7. Renal or hepatic impairment 
8. Unstable neurological disorder 
9. Immunodeficiency (including Human immunodeficiency Virus [HIV]) 
10. Allergy to Ig products. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 - 
Synagis  
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study population: 
Infants  at  high  risk  of  severe  RSV  infection  defined as  preterm infants  born ≤  35  weeks  GA  and  ≤  6 
months of age at enrollment; and/or infants  24 months of age at enrollment with a diagnosis of BPD 
requiring intervention/management any time within 6 months prior to enrollment; and/or infants ≤24 
months at enrollment with HSCHD (either cyanotic or acyanotic; unoperated or partially corrected) 
Treatments 
Palivizumab  was  administered  prophylactically  every  30  days  during  the  2016/2017  RSV  season. All 
participants  received  intramuscular  injections  of  palivizumab  according  to  a  physicians'  prescription 
and the local Russian label. The labeling recommends 1 month injection window between sequential 5 
palivizumab  IM  injections.  It  is  recommended  to  administer  the  first  injection  right  before  the 
anticipated start of the RSV season.  
Outcomes/endpoints: 
Primary endpoint: Rate of hospitalization due to RSV infection. 
Secondary endpoints, for subjects with RSV hospitalization, were: 
-Total number of hospitalization days. 
-Use of increased supplemental oxygen or increased mechanical ventilation 
-Total number of hospitalization days with use of increased supplemental oxygen or increased 
mechanical ventilation 
-Number and duration of ICU hospital stays. 
Statistical Methods: 
Since the study was non-controlled only descriptive statistics are provided.  
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 50 subjects were enrolled and treated at 7 study sites located in the Russian Federation (6 
sites) and the Republic of Belarus (1 site), and all 50 subjects were included in the effectiveness (ITT 
set)  and  safety  (Safety  set)  analysis  .  Of  these  50  subjects,  34%  were  premature  infants  born  ≤  35 
weeks GA and ≤ 6 months of age at enrollment, 30% were infant's ≤ 24 months of age at enrollment 
with a diagnosis of BPD and 10% infants ≤ 24 months at enrollment with HSCHD.  
Efficacy results 
During  the  entire  study  period,  there  were  no  cases  of  RSV  hospitalization.  Five  children  were 
hospitalized and tested for RSV infection during the study, but RSV infection was not detected in any of 
the children. No deaths were reported in the study. 
Safety results 
Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) through 30 days following the last palivizumab injection 
were reported 22% of subjects, the majority were mild or moderate and considered to be unrelated to 
study drug.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 - 
Synagis  
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment-emergent  SAEs  were  reported  in  6  subjects,  within  30  days  of  last  study  drug 
administration.  One  SAE  of  tachycardia  paroxysmal  was  reported  as  a  severe  event.  One  SAE  of 
hemangioma led to discontinuation of treatment.  
The observed SAEs, severe TEAEs, or TEAEs leading to study drug discontinuation were not considered 
treatment related by the investigators.  
1.2.2.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
In  this  Phase  3b,  prospective,  non-controlled,  multicenter  study,  evaluating  the  safety  and 
effectiveness  of  the  liquid formulation  of  palivizumab    in  50  infants  at  high  risk  of  contracting  severe 
RSV  infection  in  the  Russian  Federation  and  the  Republic  of  Belarus  between  2016  and  2017,  there 
were no cases of hospitalizations due to RSV. Therefore the primary and secondary outcomes could not 
be evaluated.   
As  such,  these  data  on  a  limited  number  of  subjects  does  not  contribute  any  news  to  the  already 
approved indication; there are no new efficacy concerns due to the absence of RSV cases in this small 
cohort.    These  results  in  this  mixed  population  of  subjects  at  risk  for  serious  RSV  infection  are 
comparable  with  results  in  studies  of  both  lyophilized  and  liquid  formulations  in  the  same  indications 
which  were  successfully  used  to  obtain  marketing  approval  in  numerous  countries,  and  support  the 
approval of the palivizumab liquid formulation in the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. 
The formulation of palivizumab was found to be safe and well tolerated in all subjects, consistent with 
the  known  safety  profile  of  palivizumab.    No  new  safety  signals  were  identified.  Few  drug  related  AE 
were  observed  and  only  considered  treatment  a  single  case  of  SAE  related  discontinuation  was 
observed, which was not considered related to the treatment.  
Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Synagis is already approved. 
Even  in  consideration  of  the  obvious  limitations,  the  findings  from  this  observational  study  seem 
overall consistent with the established efficacy and safety of palivizumab. The results from study M15-
539,  submitted  in  accordance  with  article  46  of  the  Pediatric  Regulation,  are  in  agreement  with  the 
currently approved SMPC and no further regulatory action is deemed necessary.  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
  Not fulfilled: 
2.  Additional clarification requested 
Not applicable 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 - 
Synagis  
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
