ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Synagis 50 mg/0.5 ml solution for injection
Synagis 100 mg/1 ml solution for injection
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
1 ml of Synagis solution contains 100 mg of palivizumab*.
Each 0.5 ml vial contains 50 mg of palivizumab.
Each 1 ml vial contains 100 mg of palivizumab.
*Palivizumab is a recombinant humanised monoclonal antibody produced by DNA technology in 
mouse myeloma host cells.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Solution for injection.
The solution is clear or slightly opalescent.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Synagis is indicated for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract disease requiring 
hospitalisation caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in children at high risk for RSV disease:



Children born at 35 weeks of gestation or less and less than 6 months of age at the onset of the 
RSV season.
Children less than 2 years of age and requiring treatment for bronchopulmonary dysplasia 
within the last 6 months.
Children less than 2 years of age and with haemodynamically significant congenital heart 
disease.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
The recommended dose of palivizumab is 15 mg/kg of body weight, given once a month during 
anticipated periods of RSV risk in the community.
The volume (expressed in ml) of // Palivizumab // to be administered at one-monthly intervals = 
[patient weight in kg] multiplied by 0.15.
Where possible, the first dose should be administered prior to commencement of the RSV season.  
Subsequent doses should be administered monthly throughout the RSV season.  The efficacy of 
palivizumab at doses other than 15 mg per kg or of dosing differently from monthly throughout the 
RSV season, has not been established.
The majority of experience including the pivotal phase III clinical trials with palivizumab has been 
gained with 5 injections during one season (see section 5.1).  Data, although limited, are available on 
greater than 5 doses (see sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2).
2
To reduce risk of rehospitalisation, it is recommended that children receiving palivizumab who are 
hospitalised with RSV continue to receive monthly doses of palivizumab for the duration of the RSV 
season.
For children undergoing cardiac bypass, it is recommended that a 15 mg/kg of body weight injection 
of palivizumab be administered as soon as stable after surgery to ensure adequate palivizumab serum 
levels.  Subsequent doses should resume monthly through the remainder of the RSV season for 
children that continue to be at high risk of RSV disease (see section 5.2).
Method of administration
Palivizumab is administered intramuscularly, preferably in the anterolateral aspect of the thigh.  The 
gluteal muscle should not be used routinely as an injection site because of the risk of damage to the 
sciatic nerve.  The injection should be given using standard aseptic technique.
Injection volumes over 1 ml should be given as a divided dose.
Synagis solution for injection is a ready to use formulation.  For instructions on special handling 
requirements, see section 6.6.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, or to other 
humanised monoclonal antibodies.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Allergic reactions including very rare cases of anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock have been reported 
following palivizumab administration.  In some cases, fatalities have been reported (see section 4.8).  
Medicinal products for the treatment of severe hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and 
anaphylactic shock, should be available for immediate use following administration of palivizumab.
A moderate to severe acute infection or febrile illness may warrant delaying the use of palivizumab, 
unless, in the opinion of the physician, withholding palivizumab entails a greater risk.  A mild febrile 
illness, such as mild upper respiratory infection, is not usually reason to defer administration of 
palivizumab.
Palivizumab should be given with caution to patients with thrombocytopenia or any coagulation 
disorder.
The efficacy of palivizumab when administered to patients as a second course of treatment during an 
ensuing RSV season has not been formally investigated in a study performed with this objective.  The 
possible risk of enhanced RSV infection in the season following the season in which the patients were 
treated with palivizumab has not been conclusively ruled out by studies performed aiming at this 
particular point.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
No formal interactions studies with other medicinal products were conducted.  In the phase III IMpact-
RSV study in the premature and bronchopulmonary dysplasia paediatric populations, the proportions 
of patients in the placebo and palivizumab groups who received routine childhood vaccines, influenza 
3
vaccine, bronchodilators or corticosteroids were similar and no incremental increase in adverse 
reactions was observed among patients receiving these agents.
Since the monoclonal antibody is specific for RSV, palivizumab is not expected to interfere with the 
immune response to vaccines.
Palivizumab may interfere with immune-based RSV diagnostic tests, such as some antigen detection
based assays.  In addition, palivizumab inhibits virus replication in cell culture and, therefore, may
also interfere with viral culture assays.  Palivizumab does not interfere with reverse transcriptase
polymerase chain reaction-based assays.  Assay interference could lead to false-negative RSV
diagnostic test results.  Therefore, diagnostic test results, when obtained, should be used in conjunction 
with clinical findings to guide medical decisions.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Not relevant.  Synagis is not indicated for use in adults.  Data on fertility, pregnancy and lactation are 
not available.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Not relevant.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most serious adverse reactions occurring with palivizumab are anaphylaxis and other acute
hypersensitivity reactions.  Common adverse reactions occurring with palivizumab are fever, rash, and 
injection site reaction.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions both clinical and laboratory, are displayed by system organ class and frequency 
(very common  ≥ 1/10; common  ≥ 1/100 to < 1/10; uncommon ≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100; rare ≥ 1/10,000
to <1/1,000 ) in studies conducted in premature and bronchopulmonary dysplasia paediatric patients, 
and paediatric congenital heart disease patients.
The adverse reactions identified via post-marketing surveillance are reported voluntarily from a 
population of uncertain size; it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a 
causal relationship to palivizumab exposure.  The frequency for these "ADRs" as presented in the 
table below was estimated using the safety data of the two registration clinical studies.  The incidences 
of these reactions in these studies showed no difference between the palivizumab and placebo groups 
and the reactions were not drug related.
4
Undesirable effects in clinical studies* and post-marketing reports in paediatric patients
MedDRA system organ 
class
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders
Immune system disorders
Thrombocytopenia#
Uncommon
Frequency
Not known
ADR
Nervous system disorders
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Uncommon
Common
Very common
Uncommon
Very common 
General disorders and 
administrative site 
conditions
*For full study description, see Section 5.1 Clinical studies
# ADRs identified from post-marketing surveillance
Common
Anaphylaxis, anaphylactic 
shock (in some cases, 
fatalities have been 
reported.)#
Convulsion#
Apnoea#
Rash
Urticaria#
Pyrexia
Injection site reaction
Description of selected adverse reactions
Post-marketing experience
Post-marketing serious spontaneous adverse reactions reported during palivizumab treatment between 
1998 and 2002 covering four RSV seasons were evaluated.  A total of 1,291 serious reports were 
received where palivizumab had been administered as indicated and the duration of therapy was within 
one season.  The onset of the adverse reactions occurred after the sixth or greater dose in only 22 of 
these reports (15 after the sixth dose, 6 after the seventh doses and 1 after the eight dose).  These 
adverse reactions are similar in character to those after the initial five doses.
Palivizumab treatment schedule and adverse reactions were monitored in a group of nearly 
20,000 infants tracked through a patient compliance registry between 1998 and 2000.  Of this group 
1,250 enrolled infants had 6 injections, 183 infants had 7 injections, and 27 infants had either 
8 or 9 injections.  Adverse reactions observed in patients after a sixth or greater dose were similar in 
character and frequency to those after the initial 5 doses.
In a small open label prospective trial of 14 subjects, who received 6 doses, the adverse events 
reported were consistent with the known safety profile of palivizumab.
In an observational, post-marketing, database study, a small increase in the frequency of asthma was 
observed among preterm palivizumab recipients; however, the causal relationship is uncertain.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important.  It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product.  Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
In clinical studies, three children received an overdose of more than 15 mg/kg.  These doses were 
20.25 mg/kg, 21.1 mg/kg and 22.27 mg/kg.  No medical consequences were identified in these 
instances.
From the post-marketing experience, overdoses with doses up to 85 mg/kg have been reported and in 
some cases, adverse reactions were reported which did not differ from those observed with 15 mg/kg 
5
dose (see section 4.8).  In case of overdose, it is recommended that the patient be monitored for any 
signs or symptoms of adverse reactions or effects and appropriate symptomatic treatment instituted 
immediately.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immune sera and immunoglobulins, antiviral monoclonal antibodies; 
ATC Code: J06BD01.
Palivizumab is a humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody directed to an epitope in the A antigenic site 
of the fusion protein of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).  This humanised monoclonal antibody is 
composed of human (95%) and murine (5%) antibody sequences.  It has potent neutralising and 
fusion-inhibitory activity against both RSV subtype A and B strains.
Palivizumab serum concentrations of approximately 30 g/ml have been shown to produce a 99% 
reduction in pulmonary RSV replication in the cotton rat model.
In vitro studies of antiviral activity
The antiviral activity of palivizumab was assessed in a microneutralization assay in which increasing
concentrations of antibody were incubated with RSV prior to addition of the human epithelial cells 
HEp-2.  After incubation for 4-5 days, RSV antigen was measured in an enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA).  The neutralization titre (50% effective concentration [EC50]) is 
expressed as the antibody concentration required to reduce detection of RSV antigen by 50% 
compared with untreated virus-infected cells.  Palivizumab exhibited median EC50 values of 
0.65 g/ml (mean [standard deviation] = 0.75 [0.53] g/ml; n=69, range 0.07–2.89 g/ml) and 
0.28 g/ml (mean [standard deviation] = 0.35 [0.23] g/ml; n=35, range 0.03–0.88 g/ml) against 
clinical RSV A and RSV B isolates, respectively.  The majority of clinical RSV isolates tested (n=96) 
were collected from subjects in the United States.
Resistance
Palivizumab binds a highly conserved region on the extracellular domain of mature RSV F protein,
referred to as antigenic site II or A antigenic site, which encompasses amino acids 262 to 275.  In a 
genotypic analysis of 126 clinical isolates from 123 children who failed immunoprophylaxis, all RSV 
mutants that exhibited resistance to palivizumab (n=8) were shown to contain amino acid changes in 
this region of the F protein. No polymorphic or non-polymorphic sequence variations outside of the A 
antigenic site on the RSV F protein were shown to render RSV resistant to neutralisation by 
palivizumab. At least one of the palivizumab resistance-associated substitutions, N262D, K272E/Q, or 
S275F/L was identified in these 8 clinical RSV isolates resulting in a combined resistance-associated 
mutation frequency of 6.3% in these patients.  A review of clinical findings did not reveal an
association between A antigenic site sequence changes and RSV disease severity among children 
receiving palivizumab immunoprophylaxis who develop RSV lower respiratory tract disease.  
Analysis of 254 clinical RSV isolates collected from immunoprophylaxis-naïve subjects revealed 
palivizumab resistance-associated substitutions in 2 (1 with N262D and 1 with S275F), resulting in a 
resistance associated mutation frequency of 0.79%.
Immunogenicity
Antibody to palivizumab was observed in approximately 1% of patients in the IMpact-RSV during the 
first course of therapy.  This was transient, low titre, resolved despite continued use (first and second 
season), and could not be detected in 55 of 56 infants during the second season (including 2 with titres 
during the first season).  Immunogenicity was not studied in the congenital heart disease study.  
Antibody to palivizumab was evaluated in four additional studies in 4337 patients (children born at 35 
weeks of gestation or less and 6 months of age or less, or 24 months of age or less with
bronchopulmonary dysplasia, or with haemodynamically significant congenital heart disease were 
included in these studies) and was observed in 0% – 1.5% of patients at different study timepoints.  
6
There was no association observed between the presence of antibody and adverse events.  Therefore, 
anti-drug antibody (ADA) responses appear to be of no clinical relevance.
7
Studies using lyophilised palivizumab
In a placebo-controlled trial of RSV disease prophylaxis in (IMpact-RSV trial) 1502 high-risk children 
(1002 Synagis; 500 placebo), 5 monthly doses of 15 mg/kg reduced the incidence of RSV related 
hospitalisation by 55% (p = < 0.001).  The RSV hospitalisation rate was 10.6% in the placebo group.  
On this basis, the absolute risk reduction is 5.8% which means the number needed to treat is 17 to 
prevent one hospitalisation.  The severity of RSV disease in children hospitalised despite prophylaxis 
with palivizumab in terms of days in ICU stay per 100 children and days of mechanical ventilation per 
100 children was not affected.
A total of 222 children were enrolled in two separate studies to examine the safety of palivizumab 
when it is administered for a second RSV season.  One hundred and three (103) children received 
monthly palivizumab injections for the first time, and 119 children received palivizumab for 
two consecutive seasons.  No difference between groups regarding immunogenicity was observed in 
either study.  However, as the efficacy of palivizumab when administered to patients as a second 
course of treatment during an ensuing RSV season has not been formally investigated in a study 
performed with this objective, the relevance of these data in terms of efficacy is unknown.
In an open label prospective trial pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity were evaluated after 
administration of 6 doses of palivizumab within a single RSV season. The pharmacokinetic data 
indicated that adequate mean palivizumab levels were achieved in all 14 children for whom data on 
30 day trough serum concentrations after the sixth dose were available (see section 5.2). No significant 
elevations of anti-palivizumab antibody titer were observed in these 14 participants.  Transient, low 
levels of anti-palivizumab antibody were observed in one child after the second dose of palivizumab 
that dropped to undetectable levels at the fifth and seventh dose.
In a placebo-controlled trial in 1,287 patients  24 months of age with haemodynamically significant 
congenital heart disease (639 Synagis; 648 placebo), 5 monthly doses of 15 mg/kg Synagis; reduced 
the incidence of RSV hospitalisations by 45% (p = 0.003) (congenital heart disease study).  Groups 
were equally balanced between cyanotic and acyanotic patients.  The RSV hospitalisation rate was 
9.7% in the placebo group and 5.3% in the Synagis group.  Secondary efficacy endpoints showed 
significant reductions in the Synagis group compared to placebo in total days of RSV hospitalisation 
(56% reduction, p = 0.003) and total RSV days with increased supplemental oxygen (73% reduction, 
p = 0.014) per 100 children.
A retrospective observational study was conducted in young children with hemodynamically 
significant congenital heart disease (HSCHD) comparing the occurrence of primary serious adverse 
events (PSAEs: infection, arrhythmia, and death) between those who did (1009) and did not receive 
Synagis prophylaxis (1009) matched by age, type of cardiac lesion, and prior corrective surgery.  The 
incidence of arrhythmia and death PSAEs was similar in children who did and did not receive 
prophylaxis.  The incidence of infection PSAEs was lower in children who received prophylaxis as 
compared to those children who did not receive prophylaxis.  The results of the study indicate no 
increased risk of serious infection, serious arrhythmia, or death in children with HSCHD associated 
with Synagis prophylaxis compared with children who did not receive prophylaxis.
Studies using liquid palivizumab
Two clinical studies were conducted to directly compare liquid and lyophilised formulations of 
palivizumab.  In the first study, all 153 premature infants received both formulations in different 
sequences.  In the second study, 211 and 202 premature infants or children with chronic lung disease 
received liquid and lyophilised palivizumab, respectively.  In two additional studies, liquid 
palivizumab was used as an active control (3918 paediatric subjects) to evaluate an investigational 
monoclonal antibody for prophylaxis of serious RSV disease in premature infants or children with 
BPD or hemodynamically significant CHD (see below for further details of these two studies).  The 
overall rate and pattern of adverse events, study drug discontinuation due to AEs, and the number of 
deaths reported in these clinical studies were consistent with those observed during the clinical 
development programs for the lyophilised formulation.  No deaths were considered related to 
palivizumab and no new ADRs were identified in these studies.
8
Pre-term infants and children with Chronic Lung Disease of Prematurity (CLDP): this trial, conducted 
at 347 centers in the North America, European Union and 10 other countries, studied patients less than 
or equal to 24 months of age with CLDP and patients with premature birth (less than or equal to
35 weeks gestation) who were less than or equal to 6 months of age at study entry.  Patients with 
hemodynamically significant congenital heart disease were excluded from enrollment in this study and 
were studied in a separate study.  In this trial, patients were randomized to receive 5 monthly 
injections of 15 mg/kg of liquid palivizumab (N=3306) used as active control for an investigational 
monoclonal antibody (N=3329).  Subjects were followed for safety and efficacy for 150 days.  Ninety-
eight percent of all subjects receiving palivizumab completed the study and 97% received all 
five injections.  The primary endpoint was the incidence of RSV hospitalisation.  RSV hospitalisations 
occurred among 62 of 3306 (1.9%) patients in the palivizumab group.  The RSV hospitalisation rate 
observed in patients enrolled with a diagnosis of CLDP was 28/723 (3.9%) and in patients enrolled 
with a diagnosis of prematurity without CLDP was 34/2583 (1.3%).
CHD Study 2: this trial, conducted at 162 centers in North America, European Union and 4 other 
countries over two RSV seasons, studied patients less than or equal to 24 months of age with 
hemodynamically significant CHD.  In this trial, patients were randomized to receive 5 monthly 
injections of 15 mg/kg of liquid palivizumab (N=612) used as active control for an investigational 
monoclonal antibody (N=624).  Subjects were stratified by cardiac lesion (cyanotic vs. other) and were 
followed for safety and efficacy for 150 days.  Ninety-seven percent of all subjects receiving 
palivizumab completed the study and 95% received all five injections.  The primary endpoint was a 
summary of adverse events and serious adverse events, and the secondary endpoint was the incidence 
of RSV hospitalisation.  The incidence of RSV hospitalisation was 16 of 612 (2.6%) in the 
palivizumab group.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Lyophilised formulation of palivizumab
In studies in adult volunteers, palivizumab had a pharmacokinetic profile similar to a human IgG1
antibody with regard to volume of distribution (mean 57 ml/kg) and half-life (mean 18 days).  In 
prophylactic studies in premature and bronchopulmonary dysplasia paediatric populations, the mean 
half-life of palivizumab was 20 days and monthly intramuscular doses of 15 mg/kg achieved mean 
30 day trough serum active substance concentrations of approximately 40 g/ml after the first 
injection, approximately 60 g/ml after the second injection, approximately 70 g/ml after the third 
injection and fourth injection.  In the congenital heart disease study, monthly intramuscular doses of 
15 mg/kg achieved mean 30 day trough serum active substance concentrations of approximately
55 µg/ml after the first injection and approximately 90 µg/ml after the fourth injection.
In the open label prospective trial evaluating pharmacokinetics with administration of 6 monthly 
intramuscular doses of 15 mg/kg of palivizumab, mean 30 day trough serum concentrations were 
approximately 40 g/ml after the first dose, 120 g/ml after the fourth dose, and 140 g/ml after the 
sixth dose.
Among 139 children in the congenital heart disease study receiving palivizumab who had 
cardio-pulmonary bypass and for whom paired serum samples were available, the mean serum 
palivizumab concentration was approximately 100 g/ml pre-cardiac bypass and declined to 
approximately 40 g/ml after bypass.
Liquid formulation of palivizumab
The pharmacokinetics and safety of palivizumab liquid formulation and palivizumab lyophilised 
formulation, following 15 mg/kg intramuscular administration, were compared in a cross-over trial of 
153 infants less than or equal to 6 months of age with a history of prematurity (less than or equal to 
35 weeks gestational age).  The results of this trial indicated that the trough serum concentrations of 
palivizumab were similar between the liquid formulation and the lyophilised formulation and 
bioequivalence of the liquid and the lyophilised formulation was demonstrated.
9
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Single dose toxicology studies have been conducted in cynomolgus monkeys (maximum dose 
30 mg/kg), rabbits (maximum dose 50 mg/kg) and rats (maximum dose 840 mg/kg). No significant 
findings were observed.
Studies carried out in rodents gave no indication of enhancement of RSV replication, or RSV-induced 
pathology or generation of virus escape mutants in the presence of palivizumab under the chosen 
experimental conditions.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Histidine 
Glycine
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product should not be mixed with other medicinal products.
6.3
Shelf-life
3 years.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2ºC to 8ºC).
Do not freeze.
Keep the vial in the carton in order to protect from light.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Single-use vials: 3 ml capacity, clear, colourless type I glass vial with a chlorobutyl stopper and flip-
off seal containing either 0.5 ml or 1 ml of solution for injection.
Pack size of 1.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Do not dilute the product.
Do not shake the vial.
Both the 0.5 ml and 1 ml vials contain an overfill to allow the withdrawal of 50 mg or 100 mg, 
respectively.
To administer, remove the tab portion of the vial cap and clean the stopper with 70 % ethanol or 
equivalent.  Insert the needle into the vial and withdraw into the syringe an appropriate volume of 
solution.
Palivizumab solution for injection does not contain a preservative, is for single use and should be 
administered immediately after drawing the dose into the syringe.
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
10
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS
EU/1/99/117/003
EU/1/99/117/004
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 13 August 1999
Date of latest renewal: 27 July 2009
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
11
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE  
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
12
A. MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG
D-88397 Biberach an der Riss
Germany
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals Limited Partnership (AZPLP)
660 MedImmune Court / 633 Research Court, Frederick, Maryland,
USA
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
AbbVie S.r.l.
04011 Campoverde di Aprilia (LT)
Italy
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorization holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.
13
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
14
A.  LABELLING
15
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer Carton of 0.5 ml vial
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Synagis 50 mg/0.5 ml solution for injection
palivizumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each 0.5 ml vial contains 50 mg of palivizumab. Concentration of 100 mg/ml solution for injection. 
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Also contains: histidine, glycine and water for injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Solution for injection
50 mg/0.5 ml
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Do not shake.
Intramuscular use.
Single-use vial.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
16
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Keep the vial in the carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/99/117/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
17
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
Outer Carton of 1.0 ml vial
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Synagis 100 mg/1 ml solution for injection
palivizumab
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each 1 ml vial contains 100 mg of palivizumab. Concentration of 100 mg/ml solution for injection.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Also contains: histidine, glycine and water for injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Solution for injection
100 mg/1 ml
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Do not shake.
Intramuscular use.
Single-use vial.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
18
Keep the vial in the carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/99/117/004
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
19
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
Label of 0.5 ml vial
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Synagis 50 mg/0.5 ml solution for injection
palivizumab
IM
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
100 mg/ml
6.
OTHER
20
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
Label of 1.0 ml vial
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Synagis 100 mg/1 ml solution for injection
palivizumab
IM
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
100 mg/ml
6.
OTHER
21
B.  PACKAGE LEAFLET
22
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Synagis 50 mg/0.5 ml solution for injection
Synagis 100 mg/1 ml solution for injection
Active substance: palivizumab
Read all of this leaflet carefully before your child is given this medicine because it contains 
important information for you and your child.



Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or your pharmacist.
If any of the side effects get serious, or if you notice that your child has any side effects not 
listed in this leaflet, please tell your doctor or pharmacist. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What Synagis is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before Synagis is given to your child
3.
4.
5.
6.
How will my child receive Synagis
Possible side effects
How to store Synagis
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Synagis is and what it is used for
Synagis contains an active ingredient called palivizumab which is an antibody that works specifically 
against a virus called respiratory syncytial virus, RSV.
Your child is at high risk of getting an illness caused by a virus called respiratory syncytial virus 
(RSV).
Children who are more likely to get severe RSV disease (high-risk children) include babies born 
prematurely (35 weeks or less) or babies born with certain heart or lung problems.
Synagis is a medicine to help protect your child from getting severe RSV illness.
2. What you need to know before Synagis is given to your child
Your child should not be given Synagis
If he/she is allergic to palivizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
Signs and symptoms of a severe allergic reaction include:








severe rash, hives, or itching skin
swelling of the lips, tongue, or face
closing of the throat, difficulty swallowing
difficult, rapid, or irregular breathing
bluish colour of skin, lips, or under fingernails
muscle weakness or floppiness
a drop in blood pressure
unresponsiveness
23
Warnings and precautions
Take special care with Synagis

if your child is unwell. Please tell your doctor if your child is unwell, as the use of Synagis may 
need to be delayed.
if your child has any bleeding disorders as Synagis is usually injected into the thigh.

Other medicines and Synagis
Synagis is not known to interact with other medicines. However, you should inform your doctor of all 
medicines your child is currently taking before starting Synagis.
3.
How will my child receive Synagis
How often will Synagis be given to my child?
Synagis should be given to your child at a dose of 15 mg/kg body weight once a month for as long as 
the risk of RSV infection remains. For your child’s best protection, it is necessary to take the doctor’s 
advice about when to return for additional doses of Synagis.
If your child is to have a heart operation (cardiac bypass surgery), he or she may be given an extra 
dose of Synagis after the operation. Your child can then go back to the original planned injections.
How will my child receive Synagis?
Synagis will be given by injection to your child into a muscle, usually in the outer part of the thigh.
What should you do if your child misses an injection of Synagis?
If your child misses an injection, you should contact your doctor as soon as possible. Each injection of 
Synagis can only help protect your child for about one month before another injection is needed.
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. If you are not sure about 
how this product will be given to your child, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Synagis may cause serious side effects including:

severe allergic reactions, such reactions may be life threatening or fatal (see "Your child 
should not be given Synagis" for a list of signs and symptoms).
unusual bruising or groups of tiny red spots on the skin.

Call your doctor or get medical help right away if your child has any of the serious side effects listed 
above after receiving any dose of Synagis.
Additional side effects
Very common (affects at least 1 user in 10):


rash
fever
Common (affects 1 to 10 users in 100):


pain, redness or swelling at the injection site
a pause in breathing or other breathing difficulties
24
Uncommon (affects less than 1 user in 100):


fits
hives
Reporting of side effects
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V.  By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.
How to store Synagis
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label after ‘EXP’. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2ºC to 8ºC).
Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the carton in order to protect from light.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Synagis contains
-
The active substance is palivizumab.  One ml of Synagis solution for injection contains 100 mg 
of palivizumab.  
Each 0.5 ml vial contains 50 mg of palivizumab.
Each 1 ml vial contains 100 mg of palivizumab.
The other ingredients are histidine, glycine and water for injections. 
-
-
-
What Synagis looks like and contents of the pack
Synagis solution for injection is a clear or slightly opalescent solution and is available in vials of either 
0.5 ml or 1 ml. 
Pack size of 1.
Marketing Authorisation holder
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
Manufacturer
AbbVie S.r.l. 
04011 Campoverde di Aprilia (LT)
Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
Lietuva
UAB AstraZeneca Lietuva
Tel: +370 5 2660550
25
България
АстраЗенека България ЕООД
Teл.: +359 2 44 55 000
Česká republika
AstraZeneca Czech Republic s.r.o
Tel: +420 222 807 111
Danmark
AstraZeneca A/S
Tlf: +45 43 66 64 62
Deutschland
AstraZeneca GmbH
Tel: +49 40 809034100
Eesti
AstraZeneca
Tel: +372 6549 600
Ελλάδα
AstraZeneca A.E.
Τηλ: +30 2 106871500
España
AstraZeneca Farmacéutica Spain, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 301 91 00
France
AstraZeneca
Tél: +33 1 41 29 40 00
Hrvatska
AstraZeneca d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 4628 000
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
Magyarország
AstraZeneca Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 883 6500
Malta
Associated Drug Co. Ltd
Tel: +356 2277 8000
Nederland
AstraZeneca BV
Tel: +31 85 808 9900
Norge
AstraZeneca AS
Tlf: +47 21 00 64 00
Österreich
AstraZeneca Österreich GmbH
Tel: +43 1 711 31 0
Polska
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 245 73 00
Portugal
AstraZeneca Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 434 61 00
România
AstraZeneca Pharma SRL
Tel: +40 21 317 60 41
Ireland
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) DAC
Tel: +353 1609 7100
Slovenija
AstraZeneca UK Limited
Tel: +386 1 51 35 600
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
AstraZeneca S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 00704500
Κύπρος
Αλέκτωρ Φαρµακευτική Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22490305
Latvija
SIA AstraZeneca Latvija
Tel: +371 67377100
Slovenská republika
AstraZeneca AB, o.z.
Tel: +421 2 5737 7777
Suomi/Finland
AstraZeneca Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 10 23 010
Sverige
AstraZeneca AB
Tel: +46 8 553 26 000
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
AstraZeneca UK Ltd
Tel: +44 1582 836 836
26
This leaflet was last revised in
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
27
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only:
Administrator’s Instructions
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Palivizumab should not be mixed with any medicinal products or diluents.
Both the 0.5 ml and 1 ml vials contain an overfill to allow the withdrawal of 50 mg or 100 mg 
respectively.
Do not dilute the product.
Do not shake the vial.
To administer, remove the tab portion of the vial cap and clean the stopper with 70 % ethanol or
equivalent. Insert the needle into the vial and withdraw into the syringe an appropriate volume of
solution. Palivizumab solution for injection does not contain a preservative, is for single use and 
should be administered immediately after drawing the dose into the syringe.
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
Palivizumab is administered once a month intramuscularly, preferably in the anterolateral aspect of the 
thigh. The gluteal muscle should not be used routinely as an injection site because of the risk of
damage to the sciatic nerve. The injection should be given using standard aseptic technique.
Injection volumes over 1 ml should be given as a divided dose.
When using Palivizumab 100 mg/1 ml, the volume (expressed in ml) of Palivizumab to be
administered at one-monthly intervals = [patient weight in kg] multiplied by 0.15
For example, for a baby with a body weight of 3 kg, the calculation becomes:
(3 x 0.15) ml = 0.45 ml palivizumab per month.
28
