SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Synagis.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 October 2004. For information on changes after 1 October 
2004 please refer to module 8B. 
I 
1. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Introduction 
Synagis  (MEDI-493,  palivizumab)  is  a  humanised  monoclonal  IgG1κ  antibody  developed  from  a 
murine monoclonal antibody (Mab) - originally discovered by the NIH - directed against the antigenic 
site A on the fusion or F protein of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). It is produced as a lyophilised 
powder intended to be reconstituted with water for injections to 100 mg/ml prior to intramuscular (IM) 
administration. 
Synagis  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  serious  lower  respiratory  tract  disease  requiring 
hospitalisation caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in children at high risk for RSV disease: 
• 
• 
• 
Children born at 35 weeks of gestation or less and less than 6 months of age at the onset of the 
RSV season 
Children less than 2 years of age and requiring treatment for bronchopulmonary dysplasia within 
the last 6 months. 
Children  less  than  2  years  of  age  and  with  haemodynamically  significant  congenital  heart 
disease. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Synagis  is  presented  as  a  sterile  lyophilised  powder  in  single-dose  vials  containing  either  50  mg  or  
100 mg of palivizumab.  
Palivizumab  was  derived  from  a  murine  monoclonal  antibody  and  humanised  by  grafting  of  the 
complementarity  determining  regions  (CDR)  of  the  murine  monoclonal  antibody  Mab  1129  into  a 
human antibody framework with an IgG1 constant region. It is composed of two heavy and two light 
chains  of  a  total  molecular  weight  of  approximately  148,000  Daltons  and  has  been  extensively 
characterised. The production cell line is a well-established murine myeloma NS0 cell line.  
All stages of antibody production from cell culture to harvesting, purification, formulation, filling and 
lyophilisation take place at Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG, Germany. 
Composition 
The composition of the product for the 50 mg and 100 mg palivizumab vials is given below: 
Composition :   
Active ingredients       mg/ml             50 mg vial     100 mg vial      Function      Standards 
                                   (after recon) 
Palivizumab                    100                     73 mg         122 mg           Active          In-house 
Other ingredients 
Glycine                           0.2                     0.16 mg        0.27 mg          Stabiliser        Ph. Eur. 
Histidine                         7.3                     5.2 mg          8.7 mg            Stabiliser        Ph. Eur. 
Mannitol                        56.3                    40.5 mg        67.5 mg        Bulking agent   Ph. Eur. 
1/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior  to  use,  the  product  is  reconstituted  with  Water  for  Injections  to  give  a  sterile,  aqueous,  
100  mg/ml  solution,  for  administration  by  intramuscular  injection.  The  reconstituted  product  also 
contains 3.0 mM glycine, 47 mM histidine and 5.6% mannitol. Palivizumab will be packaged with a  
1 ml ampoule of Water for Injections, Ph. Eur. 
The product is presented in a Type I (Ph. Eur.) 4 ml capacity (50 mg) or 10 ml capacity (100 mg) glass 
fliptop vial, closed with a siliconised, butyl rubber, lyophilisation stopper. The stopper is covered by 
an aluminium cap or equivalent. 
Two  formulations  of  palivizumab  were  used  in  clinical  trials;  a  solution  formulation  (early  clinical 
trials)  and  the  lyophilised  product  which  is  the  one  proposed  for  marketing  and  the  subject  of  this 
application.  
Product development and finished product 
Development pharmaceutics 
Formulation studies were performed to develop a suitable base for palivizumab lyophilisate in order to 
enhance  the  solubility  without  resulting  in  aggregation,  and  have  good  stability  and  processing 
characteristics.  The  composition  of  the  formulation  buffer  comprises  25  mM  histidine  with  1.6  mM 
glycineA  3-4%  concentration  of  mannitol  exhibited  superior  cake  characteristics  and  reconstitution 
properties. To ensure that the withdrawable  contents of the vial are not less than the label claim, an 
overfill  has  been  added  to  each  vial.    Therefore  upon  reconstitution  to  a  100  mg/ml  solution,  
the volume of the product will be 0.7 ml for the 50 mg vial or 1.2 ml for the 100 mg vial.   
Method of preparation 
The maximum batch size is approximately 45,000 vials for the 100 mg presentation and 93,000 vials 
for  the  50  mg  presentation.  The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  sterile  filtration  followed  by 
lyophilisation.  In-process  controls  are:  testing  of  samples  for  fill  volume  and  integrity  testing  of 
sterilisation filters. Validation is performed according to standard procedures. 
Control of starting materials 
The  active  substance  is  formulated  and  provided  as  an  aqueous  solution  containing  54  mg/ml 
palivizumab, 25 mM histidine, 1.6 mM glycine and 3% mannitol. 
Routine  testing  includes  total  protein,  biological  potency,  identity,  size  exclusion  chromatography, 
endotoxins, sterility and process impurities. 
Development genetics 
The  generation of the recombinant cell line expressing palivizumab involved a series  of major steps 
which  included  the  production  and  selection  of  murine  monoclonal  antibody  Mab  1129,  
the humanisation of Mab 1129, and the construction and selection of the expression myeloma NS0 cell 
line. 
Cell bank system 
Twenty one candidate production cell lines were evaluated for growth rate and secretion of antibody. 
Selection of one cell line, suitable for large-scale production, was based on expression level, growth 
rate,  and  stability.  The  best  candidate  after  cloning  resulted  in  the  generation  of  the  Accession  Cell 
Bank  (ACB).    Cells  from  one  ACB  vial  were  used  to  establish  the  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB).  
Each MCB vial can be used to prepare a Working Cell Bank (WCB).  
The MCB was characterised for identity, quality and safety measuring the following parameters:  
mouse antibody production, isoenzyme analysis, in vivo assay for adventitious viruses, in vitro assay 
for adventitious viruses, sterility, mycoplasma, extended S+L- focus assay, extended XC plaque assay, 
DNA profiling, cDNA sequences of H & L chains, and copy number. 
2/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The  WCB  was  characterised  for  sterility,  DNA-fingerprinting,  mycoplasma  and  in  vitro  assay  for 
adventitious  viruses.  No  evidence  of  microbial  contamination  was  found.  The  DNA  profile  was 
characterised and the profile was found to be similar to that of the MCB. 
Fermentation and harvesting 
The production batch size for palivizumab is approximately 10,000 litres. There are two parts of the 
fermentation process, the T-Flask and spinner culture in which the volume of the  WCB is increased 
and  the  bioreactor  process  where  the  volume  is  increased  through  stages  to  the  final  volume  of  
10,000 litres. The cells and debris are removed from the culture, and the pH and conductivity of the 
resulting cell-free conditioned medium are adjusted for further processing. 
Purification 
The palivizumab purification process consists of several viral removal/inactivation steps.   
Characterisation 
Palivizumab  specifically  binds  with  high  affinity  (Kd  =  0.96  nM  )  to  the  F  protein  of    respiratory 
syncytial  virus  (RSV)  and  has  been  isotyped  as  an  IgG1  with  a  molecular  weight  of  approximately 
148,  000  Daltons  as  measured  by  MALDI-TOF  mass  spectrometry.    It  is  composed  of  two  heavy 
chains and two light chains as determined by reducing SDS-PAGE and the molecule has an isoelectric 
point of greater than 9 as determined by IEF.   
Analytical Development 
SDS PAGE and RSV Microneutralisation - used during development - have been validated. 
Validation  of    total  protein  assay,  biological  potency,  identity,  size  exclusion  chromatography  and 
methods used to detect impurities has been performed. 
Detailed information on the palivizumab reference standards has been provided. The characterisation 
of the reference standard encompasses a series of analytical tests to confirm that the structural identity 
and biological activity is consistent with the set criteria.   
Process validation 
Process validation studies were performed on: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
comparability of palivizumab produced at different scales (up to 10000 L), 
comparability of palivizumab manufactured at MedImmune and Boehringer Ingelheim, 
cell culture development studies, 
bioreactor process assessment summary of results, 
validation of bulk drug manufacturing process, 
validation studies for the purification process, 
validation of removal of process contaminants. 
Control tests on the finished product 
Routine  testing  on  the  finished  product  includes  appearance  of  the  lyophilised  powder  and 
reconstituted  solution,  pH,  moisture,  total  protein,  biological  potency,  identity,  size  exclusion 
chromatography, endotoxins, sterility and uniformity of content 
Stability  
Based on the presented stability data a storage time for the active ingredient of 6 month at 2-8 °C is 
acceptable.  The  proposed  storage  time  for  the  finished  product  2-8°  C  for  2  years  can  be  accepted 
provided that real time stability data on an on-going basis is provided.  
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  applied  for  extension  of  the  shelf-life  of  the  finished  product. 
Based on the provided data the variation applied was accepted. The currently approved shelf-life is as 
stated in the SPC. 
Viral safety 
The  virological  safety  of  the  product  is  considered  satisfactory  since  palivizumab  is  a  recombinant 
DNA  monoclonal  antibody  produced  in  well-established  cell  lines,  the  purification  process  includes 
several virus removal/inactivation steps.  
3/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  were  evaluated  for  their  capacity  on  virus  removal/inactivation: 
The  virus  validation  studies  were  performed  with  the  Murine  Xenotropic  Type  C  Retrovirus 
(retrovirus),  Pseudorabies  virus  (PRV),  human  Poliovirus  type  1  (polio-1)  and  Simian  Virus  
40 (SV-40). The retrovirus was selected as the model virus for type A and C retroviral particles found 
in the cell bank. PRV, polio-1 and SV-40 were selected as unspecific model viruses consisting of one 
enveloped DNA virus and two non-enveloped viruses of the RNA and DNA genome type. 
Medium  components  were  either  recombinant  products  (amino  acids  and  vitamines,  recombinant 
human Insulin) or were derived from bovine material (BSA, Transferrin, lipoprotein fraction). Bovine 
derived components were made from plasma sourced in US or Canada which are free of BSE.  
The Company has agreed to submit follow-up information on an ongoing basis. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
RSV is a pleomorphic virus, a member of the family of Paramyxoviridae, comprising a single strand, 
sense-negative RNA genome, which is tightly associated with viral protein to form the nucleocapsid. 
RSV  is  comprised  of  two  major  groups  (A  and  B).  The  RSV  genome  codes  for  3  transmembrane 
surface proteins (F; G and SH), 2 matrix proteins (M and M2), 3 nucleocapsid proteins (N; P and L) as 
well  as  for  2  non-structural  (NS1  and  NS2)  proteins.  The  surface  fusion  (F)  and  attachment  (G) 
proteins are the only viral components inducing RSV neutralising antibodies. 
The  F  protein,  a  70  kilodalton  disulphide  linked  heterodimer,  mediates  fusion  of  the  viral  envelope 
with  the  plasma  membrane  and  syncytium  formation;  has  a  high  degree  of  genetic  and  antigenic 
homology  between  RSV  group  A  and  RSV  group  B;  and  has  been  antigenically  stable  over  years. 
Antibody against the F protein neutralises both RSV group A and B isolates. 
Immunity  against  RSV  is  mediated  via  humoral  and  cellular  effectors,  including  serum  antibodies, 
secretory  antibodies  and  MHC  class  I  restricted  cytotoxic  T-cells.  In  general,  humoral  immune 
responses  involving  secretory  and  serum  antibodies  appear  to  protect  against  infection  of  the  upper 
and  lower  respiratory  tract,  while  cell-mediated  responses  directed  against  internal  viral  proteins 
appear  to  be  active  against  the  manifested  infection.  RSV  replicates  primarily  in  the  respiratory 
epithelium.  For  this  reason,  high  titres  of  serum  neutralising  antibodies  have  been  shown  by  animal 
studies  and  by  clinical  trials  with  an  RSV  hyperimmune  globulin  (Respigam)  to  protect  the  lower 
respiratory  tract  against  RSV  infection.  This  hyperimmune  globulin  has  to  be  administered 
intravenously, due to the lower anti-RSV titre and the resulting larger volume, whereas palivizumab, 
which is more potent than the hyperimmune globulin, can be administered intramuscularly. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Palivizumab  binds  to  the  F-Protein  of  RSV  and  the  kinetic  constants  for  the  association  and 
dissociation of the humanised and the chimeric form of Mab 1129 are comparable, ranging from a Kd 
of 0.7 - 0.98 nM for the humanised and 1.0 - 1.7 nM for the chimeric form of palivizumab. 
The ability of the humanised and the chimeric forms of the murine Mab 1129 to inhibit the replication 
of  RSV  in  vitro  were  studied  by  a  modified  microneutralisation  or  a  microneutralisation  assay. 
Furthermore palivizumab was studied in comparison to a RespiGam against RSV. 
Palivizumab  and  RespiGam  were  further  tested  to  inhibit  the  in  vitro  replication  of  recent  clinical 
isolates of RSV from US origin (n=57 ) or 20 clinical isolates of RSV from Europe (UK, 14; Spain, 4, 
Sweden, 2) measured by a F-protein specific ELISA. Neutralisation was defined as a 50% reduction of 
the O. D. values in the F-protein ELISA, between the wells with and without palivizumab. 2/20 of the 
isolates could not be grown, 57/57 of the US- and 18/20 of the EU-isolates fulfilled the definition of 
neutralisation by palivizumab. 
A  direct  comparison  of  the  activities  of  two  humanised  RSV  Mabs  palivizumab  and  RSHZ19  was 
performed.  RSHZ19  is  also  IgG1,  kappa  monoclonal  antibody  directed  to  a  specific  neutralising 
4/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
epitope of the F protein of RSV which was proved unsuccessful in pivotal trials and was discontinued. 
The  comparison  was  assayed  by  RSV  Microneutralisation  Assay,  RSV  Fusion  Inhibition  Assay, 
BIAcore  Analysis  and  the  Cotton  Rat  Prophylaxis  Model.  The  results  indicated  that  palivizumab  is 
approx.  5  times  more  potent  than  RSHZ19  and  20  times  more  potent  than  RespiGam  in  the 
microneutralisation and in the fusion inhibition assay. In vivo potency was determined in the cotton rat 
model where palivizumab was 2.2- 3.5 (depending on the virus strain; Long or B18537) times more 
potent than RSHZ19 to achieve a 100-fold reduction of the RSV titre in the lungs of infected animals. 
In vivo, palivizumab was evaluated for the ability to reduce virus titres in the lung during an ongoing 
infection  in  the  cotton  rat  model.  Palivizumab  was  able  to  reduce  the  virus  titres  in  the  lungs  when 
applied prophylactically or as a treatment for an ongoing infection from approx. 105 to 102 Pfu/gram 
lung at concentrations of 5 mg/kg after either IM or IV administration. At the concentration of 5mg/kg 
the virus titres of group A as well as group B strains of RSV were >99% reduced. Prevention of the 
formation  of  histopathological  changes  in  the  lung  was  a  further  parameter  studied,  indicating  the 
efficacy of palivizumab. 
In  several  studies  in  the  cotton  rat  model  no  indications  for  the  occurrence  of  antibody  dependent 
enhancement of infection by the treatment with palivizumab were detectable. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single  dose  pharmacokinetic  studies  of  palivizumab  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  (n=  2)determined  by 
pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  plasma  samples  revealed  that  the  distributional  phase  or  α-  half-life  of 
palivizumab  was  8.8-12.6  hours,  while  the  elimination  phase  or  β-half-life  was  approximately  
8.6 days.  
Three  groups  (2  animals  per  group,  one  of  each  sex)  of  cynomolgous  monkeys  were  either 
administered PBS, 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg of palivizumab intravenously within a 15 minute period on 
day  1.  These  dosages  provided  mean  cmax  concentrations  of  286  and  595  µg/ml  respectively, 
approximately 10 and 20 times the effective concentration (30 µg/ml) in the cotton rat model.  
Considerable variability was noted in the biphasic half-life of the drug in the cotton rat model, with the 
α-phase  lasting  from  0.24  hours  to  30.66  hours;  the  β-  phase  was  more  prolonged,  lasting  from  
4.2 days to 5.9 days. No influence on the serum levels of palivizumab  by a RSV infection could  be 
detected in cotton rats. 
Toxicity  
Single dose toxicity 
A  single  dose  toxicity  study  of  palivizumab  administered  to  Sprague  Dawley  rats  via  intravenous 
injection  including  assessment  of  clinical  signs,  body  weight  changes,  food  consumption, 
ophthalmoscopy, haematology, clinical and anatomic pathology until 14 days post injection gave no 
indication of toxicity or statistically significant deviations from normal caused by the test article for 
the  described  parameters.  These  results  could  be  confirmed  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  after  a  single 
administration of palivizumab. 
Repeated dose toxicity/ reproduction toxicity/ mutagenicity/ oncogenicity/carcinogenicity/ ecotoxicity 
Studies  on  repeated  dose  toxicity,  effects  on  the  reproduction,  embryo-foetal  &  perinatal  toxicity, 
mutagenic potential, oncogenic/carcinogenic potential and ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
were not considered necessary by the applicant and were not performed. 
The  lack  of  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  (including  reproductive  toxicity)  was  justified  by  the 
company by the immunogenicity of the human  compound in  animals  and the lack of binding  of the 
compound  to  a  range  of  tissues.  In  the  initial  preclinical  safety  study  conducted  in  cynomolgus 
monkeys one animal showed a xenogeneic antibody response (antibody against the human portion of 
palivizumab). It was believed that repeat dosing in animals would represent a different response than 
5/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an anti-idiotypic response that may be seen in humans. However, the ensuing clinical studies have not 
revealed significant toxicity problems related to repeated dosing.  
Local tolerance 
Local  tolerance  was  evaluated  in  a  study  in  New  Zealand  White  rabbits  in  which  microscopic 
evaluation  of  the  injection  sites  of  the  animals  gave  no  indication  for  significant  treatment  related 
effects attributable to the test article. 
Cross reactivity 
The applicant stated in the preclinical expert report that since the product is indicated only for use in 
infants  there  is  no  need  to  evaluate  the  potential  toxicity  of  palivizumab  on  the  reproduction. 
Therefore a cross-reactivity study according to the Note for Guidance Production and Quality Control 
of  Monoclonal  Antibodies  with  tissue  from  children  of  both  sexes  was  performed.  No  binding  was 
observed in any of the tested human tissues.  
Immunogenicity 
Palivizumab  was  immunogenic  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  and  led  to  the  generation  of  anti- 
palivizumab  antibodies  in  the  low  dosage-  as  well  as  in  the  high  dosage  group  in  1/4  animals.  
In  all  animals  at  the  time  of  determination  of  the  amounts  of  anti-palivizumab-antibodies,  high 
amounts  of  palivizumab  were  present  in  the  samples.  This  observation  makes  the  immunogenicity 
findings even more important, since the assay system for the detection of anti-palivizumab-antibodies 
or  HAHA  lacks  the  ability to  detect  anti-palivizumab-antibodies  in  the  presence  of  high  amounts  of 
palivizumab. Despite the inhibition of detection of anti-palivizumab antibodies by soluble palivizumab 
the assay is qualitatively useful in detecting anti-palivizumab activity.  
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Human  respiratory  syncytial  virus  (RSV)  is  a  common  human  respiratory  tract  pathogen  and  is  the 
major cause of severe lower respiratory tract illness in young children world-wide. It outranks all other 
microbial  pathogens  as  a  cause  of  pneumonia  and  bronchiolitis  in  infants  under  1  year  of  age.  It  is 
estimated  that  50-70%  of  all  infants  experience  RSV  infection  in  the  first  year  of  life.  RSV  is 
estimated  to  cause  60-90%  of  the  paediatric  hospitalisations  for  bronchiolitis  in  Europe  and  up  to  
50-90%  in  the  US.  Particularly  severe  cases  are  seen  in  ‘high  risk’  patients  i.e.  premature  infants, 
children with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) and those with congenital heart disease (CHD). 
In  the  Northern  Hemisphere,  the  RSV  season  typically  commences  in  November  and  lasts  through 
April, but RSV activity may begin earlier or persist later in a community. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Palivizumab was derived from the murine monoclonal antibody 1129 and humanised by grafting the 
complementarity determining regions (CDR) into a human antibody framework with an IgG1 constant 
region. Prior to the initiation of clinical trials, preclinical studies demonstrated that palivizumab had 
potent RSV neutralising and fusion-inhibitory activity. Both microneutralisation and plaque reduction 
neutralisation assays were utilised to evaluate the in vitro antiviral properties of 1129 or palivizumab. 
The  plaque reduction  assay  was used to evaluate the neutralisation of  either  A (Long)  or  B  (18537) 
strains of RSV. Palivizumab neutralised both types of RSV in a dose dependent manner.   
A total of 77 clinical RSV isolates evaluated by the neutralisation assay were shown to be neutralised 
by palivizumab, 57 of these were obtained in the USA consisting of 34 A and 23 B subtype isolates. 
Further,  the  reactivity  of  palivizumab  with  isolates  passaged  in  vitro  was  evaluated  using  an 
immunofluorescence  assay  (IFA).  Laboratory  isolates  collected  throughout  the  1996-1999  RSV 
seasons and fresh nasal specimens from RSV-infected infants in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, 
Germany, Greece, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom were obtained. 
In  total  389  strains  were  collected  and  all  were  recognised  by  and  bound  by  Synagis.  Additionally,  
6/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96 strains from the United States and 6 from Uruguay were also tested by IFA and without exception 
all isolates reacted with Synagis. Thus, the binding  activity of Synagis using  IFA against a panel of 
491  clinical  and  laboratory  strains  of  RSV  isolated  between  1996  and  1999  from  different 
geographical regions have demonstrated binding of Synagis to the epitope. These data indicate that the 
epitope site to which Synagis binds is highly conserved over time and across geographic regions. 
In the cotton rat model, pre-treatment with palivizumab  was shown to reduce mean pulmonary viral 
titres (replication) by 99% at serum concentrations of approximately 30 µg/ml, and was selected as the 
target  Ctrough  serum  level  for  the  phase  I/II  studies.  Viral  replication,  pulmonary  inflammation  or 
histopathology was not enhanced at any of the palivizumab  concentrations examined. In these in vivo 
tests, palivizumab was 50-100 fold more potent than RespiGam,. In addition, no RSV mutants escaped 
therapy,  and  re-infection  with  RSV  after  palivizumab   exposure  did  not  enhance  RSV  viral  titres 
(replication).  As  a  correlate  to  the  cotton  rat  data,  palivizumab   at  a  dose  of  15  mg/kg  has  been 
demonstrated to decrease pulmonary RSV titres in tracheal secretions in paediatric patients who were 
hospitalised  and  intubated  secondary  to  severe  RSV  infection.  These  data  provide  evidence  for  the 
anti-RSV activity of palivizumab at the primary site of pathology in humans, the lung. Treatment of 
children with 15 mg/kg palivizumab was associated with a statistically significant one-log reduction of 
RSV titres in tracheal secretions as compared to controls (p=0.004).  
Pharmacokinetics 
Two formulations of palivizumab  were used; a sterile liquid formulation in phosphate buffered saline 
and  a  lyophilised  product  for  reconstitution  in  sterile  water.  The  liquid  preparation  was  only 
administered IV, while the lyophilised product was administered both IV and IM. In the majority of 
the prophylaxis trials the lyophilised product proposed for commercialisation was used. Both forms of 
the  product  delivered  similar  30  days  trough  palivizumab  levels,  and  the  safety  profiles  were 
indistinguishable.  
PKs  were  evaluated  in  healthy  adults  and  in  high-risk  infants.  The  results  obtained  are  comparable 
with those known for other chimeric monoclonal antibodies except for the median terminal half-life, 
which is unusually high for such a product. Whether administered IV or IM palivizumab demonstrated 
an elimination half-life of 18 days (mean) in adults and 20 days in children. Palivizumab  has a time to 
maximum serum concentration of 1.6 hours given IV and 5 days given IM. The mean apparent volume 
of distribution is 57 ml/kg. In children, monthly IM doses of 15 mg/kg achieved mean 30 day trough 
serum  concentrations  of  approximately  40  µg/ml  after  the  first  injection,  60  µg/ml  after  the  second 
injection, and 70 µg/ml after the third and fourth injection throughout the RSV season. The 15 mg/kg 
dose given every 30 days was selected based upon preclinical models of RSV lung infection and the 
PKs  obtained  in  the  phase  I/II  studies  assured  Ctrough  levels  at  or  above  the  30  µg/ml  target  level.  
This level was initially demonstrated to be effective in the cotton rat model. Palivizumab  was safe and 
well tolerated at doses up to 30 mg/kg, the maximum dose studied. 
Clinical trials 
The clinical programme consists of 16 completed studies including studies in healthy adult volunteers. 
These trials include 5 trials in support of the efficacy and safety of palivizumab in RSV disease and  
5 additional studies in support of the safety of palivizumab. Some patients treated in the pivotal phase 
III study were given palivizumab for a second season as part of an open-label phase IIIb study. 
Overall  the  clinical  study programme  included  62  healthy  adult  volunteers  and  1797  children  in  the 
primary  paediatric  prophylaxis  and  treatment  studies  and  21  bone  marrow  transplant  patients. 
Additionally,  56  children  were  assessed  during  a  second  season  of  prophylactic  use  of  palivizumab. 
Overall,  1344  patients  were  enrolled  to  receive  palivizumab  (1282  children  and  62  adults)  and  
575 patients were enrolled to receive placebo. 
Phase I/II studies evaluated the dose finding and the mode of administration (IV vs. IM). Additionally, 
the use of palivizumab in the treatment of RSV was evaluated. The treatment  studies suggested that 
7/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
despite  reduction  of  viral  titre  in  the  lung  the  severity  of  RSV  disease  was  not  significantly  altered, 
and thus only prophylaxis indication was evaluated in the phase III studies. 
The pivotal study (MI-CP018, The IMpact RSV Study) was a multi-centre, randomised, double blind, 
parallel group, placebo controlled trial conducted during the winter of 1996-1997. The trial evaluated 
the safety and efficacy of palivizumab in preventing hospitalisation related to RSV infection in high-
risk  infants.  These  were  children  with  BPD  (who  were  less  than  2  years  of  age  and  had  required 
therapy for BPD within 6 months of study entry) or with premature gestation (<35 weeks of gestation 
and  <6  months  of  age  at  study  entry).  The  patients  were  to  receive  five  monthly  IM  injections  of 
palivizumab  at a dose of 15 mg/kg or matching placebo and were followed for 150 days or 30 days 
after the last scheduled injection. The study was conducted at 119 centres in the USA, 11 centres in 
the UK and 9 centres in Canada. 1502 children were randomised, 500 into the placebo group and 1002 
into the palivizumab group. 
The  groups  were  balanced  at  entry  with  regard  to  demographic  and  RSV  risk  factors  with  no 
differences between the groups in terms of sex, race, enrolment or birth weight, mean gestational age, 
age  at  enrolment,  history  of  previous  RSV  infection,  or  baseline  RSV  neutralising  antibody  titre. 
Approximately  half  (50.7%)  of  the  children  met  the  entry  criteria  for  BPD  and  half  met  the  entry 
criteria for prematurity (49.3%). The mean gestational age was 29 weeks and the mean birth weight 
was 1261 g. 
Study 
Study Design 
Subject/Patient Population 
Dose 
Patients Enrolled* 
MEDI-493/Placebo 
MI-RSV-
9401c 
Phase I: Healthy adults 
Phase I 
MI-RSV-
Open label 
9401a 
Phase I 
MI-RSV-
Open Label, 
9401b 
Dose escalation 
Phase I 
Open Label, 
Dose escalation 
Phase I 
Open Label 
Phase I 
Open Label 
Phase I 
Open Label 
Dose escalation 
MI-CP035 
MI-CP017 
MI-CP007 
Healthy Adults 
Healthy Adults 
Healthy Adults 
Healthy Adults 
Healthy Adults 
Healthy Adults 
Phase I/II: Paediatric Prophylaxis (Prematurity, BPD) 
MI-CP005 
High risk children  
MI-CP011 
High risk children 
Phase I/II 
Double-blind 
Placebo-controlled, 
Dose escalation 
Phase I/II 
Open Label 
Dose escalation 
MI-CP012 
Phase I/II 
Open Label 
Dose escalation 
High risk children 
1 mg/kg IV  
single infusion 
3, 10, 15 mg/kg IV 
single infusion 
4/0 
12/0 
3, 10, 15 mg/kg IV q30 
days for 2-3 doses 
12/0 
3 mg/kg IM q30 days 
for 2 injections 
15 mg/kg IV 
single infusion 
15, 30 mg/kg IV single 
infusion 
3, 10, 15 mg/kg IV q30 
days for up to 5 
infusions 
5,15 mg/kg IM q30 
days in US; 15 mg/kg 
in Panama; 10 mg/kg 
IM q30 days in Costa 
Rica for up to 5 
injections 
5, 15 mg/kg IM  
q30 days for up to 5 
injections 
4/0 
6/0 
12/12 
42/20 
65/0 
60/0 
(Australia, New 
Zealand, South 
Africa) 
8/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase III: Paediatric Prophylaxis (Prematurity, BPD) 
MI-CP018 
High risk children 
MI-CP036 
High Risk children from 
CP018 (second season) 
Phase I/II: Paediatric Treatment (Children with RSV) 
MI-CP009 
Children with  
RSV 
(Treatment) 
15 mg/kg IM  
q30 days for 5 
injections 
15 mg/kg IM  
q30 days for 5 
injections 
5, 15 mg/kg IV  
single infusion 
MI-CP013 
MI-CP026 
Children with RSV 
(Treatment) 
5, 15 mg/kg IV  
single infusion 
Children with RSV 
(Treatment) 
15 mg/kg IV  
single infusion 
Phase III 
Double-blind 
Placebo-controlled 
Phase IIIb 
Open-label 
Phase I/II 
Double-blind, 
Placebo-controlled, 
Dose escalation 
Phase I/II 
Double-blind 
Placebo-controlled, 
Dose escalation 
Phase I/II  
Double-blind 
Placebo-controlled 
1002/500 
(US, UK, Canada) 
88  
(32 first season, 56 
second season) 
30/30 
(24 in USA) 
(36 in Panama) 
7/7 
(Australia, New 
Zealand, South 
Africa) 
17/18 
Phase I: Bone marrow transplantation 
Phase I 
MI-CP034 
MI-CP004 
Phase I 
Bone marrow transplant or 
stem cell transplant 
recipients with RSV infect. 
Bone marrow transplant 
recipients 
15 mg/kg IV  
single infusion 
15 mg/kg IV  
single infusion 
15/0 
6/0 
*unless otherwise noted, patients or subjects were in the USA. 
Efficacy 
Efficacy endpoints 
Primary endpoint of efficacy:  
Incidence of hospitalisation due to RSV infection  
Secondary efficacy parameters:  
a. 
b. 
total days of hospitalisation from RSV infection 
total days of RSV hospitalisations requiring increased supplemental oxygen 
total  days  of  RSV  hospitalisation  with  a  moderate  or  severe  lower  respiratory  tract  infection 
(LRI score ≥3) 
incidence and total days of RSV-associated ICU stay 
total days of RSV-associated mechanical ventilation 
incidence  and  total  days  of  hospitalisation  for  non-RSV  respiratory  disease,  any  respiratory 
disease and hospitalisation for any cause 
incidence of otitis media 
All  but  1%  of  the  children  completed  the  study  in  that  they  reached  the  primary  endpoint  of  RSV 
related  hospitalisation  or  were  followed  for  150 days  without  reaching  the  endpoint.  Approximately 
93% of children received all 5 scheduled doses of study drug.  
Palivizumab  at monthly IM doses of 15 mg/kg reduced RSV related hospitalisations by 55% which is 
both highly clinically and statistically significant (p<0.001). This equals an absolute risk reduction of 
5.8%, which means that the number needed to treat is 17.2 to avoid one hospitalisation. 
9/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary of Clinical Efficacy for Palivizumab 
Parameter 
Rates 
% 
Reduction 
P Value 
Placebo  Palivizumab   
Incidence of RSV hospitalisation, % 
RSV hospitalisations/100 children, day 
O2 requirement/100 children, day 
Incidence RSV ICU care, % 
ICU/100 children, day 
Mechanical ventilation, % 
Mechanical ventilation, total number of days 
All respiratory hospitalisations, % 
Respiratory hospitalisations/100 children, day 
(including RSV) 
Otitis media, % 
Deaths, % 
10.6 
62.4 
50.6 
3.0 
12.7 
.2 
1.7 
22 
180 
40 
1 
4.8 
36.4 
30.3 
1.3 
13.3 
.7† 
8.4 
16 
124 
42 
.4 
† Includes 3 infants who required prolonged ventilatory support. 
55 
42 
40 
57 
— 
— 
— 
27 
31 
— 
— 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
.026 
.023 
.280 
.210 
.008 
.004 
.505 
 .169 
Subgroup Analyses of RSV Hospitalisation by Treatment Group* 
Group 
Rate, % 
% Reduction P Value 
Placebo 
10.6 
12.8 
8.1 
Palivizumab 
4.8 
7.9 
1.8 
55 
39 
78 
.00004 
.038 
<.001 
All infants 
Premature infants with CLD 
Premature infants without 
CLD 
Neonatal Weight 
>5 kg 
<5 kg 
Neonatal gestational age 
11.0 
<32 wk 
32-35 wk† 
9.8 
* CLD indicates chronic lung disease.  
† Rates for infants (N=355 total) born at 32 to 35 weeks of gestation, but without CLD, were 10% and 
1.8% for placebo and palivizumab recipients respectively.  
.0026 
<.001 
.014 
.001 
10.7 
10.5 
5.8 
2.0 
5.2 
4.5 
47 
80 
51 
57 
Children  receiving  all  five  palivizumab  injections  showed  a  62%  reduction  in  RSV  hospitalisation. 
Hospitalisation rate due to the number of palivizumab injections is shown in the following tables: 
Placebo N=500 
Synagis N=1002 
drug 
Number of RSV hospitalisations  Number of RSV hospitalisations  Reduction 
Study 
dose 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Total 
*The  12  hospitalisations  after  study  dose  #1  for  the  Synagis  group  does  not  include  the  first  RSV 
hospital  admission  for  one  patient,  who  was  hospitalised  after  randomisation  but  before  receiving 
Synagis 
1.8% 
3.2% 
3.6% 
1.2% 
1.0% 
10.8% 
1.2% 
1.6% 
1.3% 
0.7% 
0.2% 
5.0% 
33% 
50% 
64% 
42% 
80% 
54% 
12* 
16 
13 
7 
2 
50 
9 
16 
18 
6 
5 
54 
10/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
RSV hospitalisations after initial dose 
Day after 1st dose 
of study drug 
0-4 
5->30 
0 
9 
Placebo 
N=500 
0.0% 
1.8% 
Synagis 
N=1002 
0.3% 
0.9% 
3 
9 
Reduction 
None 
50% 
A  significant  reduction  in  RSV  related  hospitalisation  was  observed  in  both  premature  infants 
(p<0.001) and children with BPD (p=0.038). The direction of the treatment effect was consistent over 
time  during  the  RSV  season,  across  countries  participating  in  the  trial,  and  within  subgroups  of 
children  defined  by  gender,  entry  age,  gestational  age,  entry  weight,  and  race/ethnicity.  Significant 
reductions were also observed in favour of palivizumab  recipients for total RSV related hospital days, 
total  RSV  related  hospital  days  with  requirement  for  increased  supplemental  oxygen,  total  RSV 
related hospital days with LRI score >3, and incidence of ICU admission. The degree of reduction in 
total days of RSV hospitalisation (41%) was less than the degree of reduction in the incidence of RSV 
hospitalisation (55%). Palivizumab did not reduce the severity of the disease in children hospitalised 
due to RSV infection. It did not affect the severity of RSV disease in terms of total days of ICU stay 
and  mechanical  ventilation  per  100  randomised  children.  These  numbers  were  slightly  –  but  not 
significantly-  greater  in  the  treatment  group  as  presented  in  Table  1.  The  increased  rates  for  
ICU/100  children  (days)  and  those  for  mechanical  ventilation  (%  total  number  of  days)  in  the 
palivizumab  group  are  mainly  due  to  the  values  of  three  children  with  severe  underlying  illnesses 
which in turn account for  60% of the ICU  days and 65% of the MV days. The severity of the RSV 
disease can therefore be viewed as a reflection of their severe underlying pulmonary disease and not as 
an enhancement of the disease by palivizumab. There was also a  significant reduction in the overall 
incidence  of  hospitalisation  for  any  cause  (30.6%  placebo  vs.  24.4%  palivizumab,  p=0.011).  
In  the  placebo  group,  RSV  related  hospitalisations  represented  34.6%  of  all  hospitalisations  as 
compared  to  19.7%  for  the  palivizumab  group.  Palivizumab  also  reduced  the  incidence  of  all 
respiratory  hospitalisations  but  did  not  reduce  the  incidence  of  respiratory  hospitalisation  not 
attributable to RSV (14.4% placebo vs. 13.0% palivizumab, p=0.470). 
The efficacy of palivizumab was assessed with regard to the facts that RSV is the most common cause 
of LRI in infants, especially in those of premature gestation and BPD and that serious RSV disease is 
the primary cause of rehospitalisation of these infants. The reduction of the RSV hospitalisation rate 
by 55% and  the reductions in all  secondary endpoints except those with low frequency i.e. MV and 
ICU  (days)  provide  medically  significant  evidence  of  efficacy.  Thus,  over  half  of  the  children  who 
normally are hospitalised due to severe RSV infections were spared hospitalisation, the complications 
of a severe disease course and the stress of subsequent treatment regime.  
Children less than two years of age and with haemodynamically significant congenital heart disease 
Children  with  haemodynamically  significant  and  surgically  uncorrected  congenital  heart  disease 
(CHD)  are  at  particularly  increased  risk  for  contracting  severe  infection  with  Respiratory  Syncytial 
Virus (RSV). A multi-centre prospective study in the late 1980’s showed that children with CHD had 
a three-fold higher mortality, significantly longer hospitalisations, and increased oxygen requirements 
relative to children without CHD (Navas et al. J. Pediatr. 1992; 121:348).   
Protective immunity to RSV infection is correlated with levels of neutralising serum antibodies above 
certain  threshold  titres  and  wanes  with  decline  in  e.g.  passively  transferred  maternal  antibodies.  
The  administration  of  RSV  specific  polyclonal  immunoglobulin  (RSV-IVIG)  has  previously  been 
demonstrated  to  prevent  disease  in  premature  children  and  in  children  with  chronic  lung  disease. 
However,  severe  safety  problems  were  observed  in  the  group  of  children  with  CHD,  specifically  in 
children with cyanotic CHD. It was later hypothesised that the increased  rate  of  SAE in this patient 
group  could  be  ascribed  to  volume  overload  and/or  increased  blood  viscosity  due  to  high 
immunoglobulin protein load. Consequently, special attention has been paid to the safety and efficacy 
of future pharmacological products intended for this very fragile patient group.  
11/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  November  1998  the  study  MI-CP048  was  initiated  as  a  U.S.  post-marketing  commitment  to 
evaluate the safety of palivizumab in children less than 2 years of age with CHD. Initially 248 children 
were randomised, but the sample size was extended to include 1280 children and RSV hospitalisation 
was added as primary (efficacy) endpoint of the trial. This data was used to broaden the indication in 
the EU. 
MI-CP048  was  designed  as  a  phase  III,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled,  multi-centre,  international 
trial with the objective to assess safety and efficacy of palivizumab in children with CHD.   
The Study included 76 sites in the U.S., Canada, France, Germany, Poland, Sweden and the UK. 
Clinical Efficacy: 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint of Study MI-CP048 was the reduction of the incidence of RSV hospitalisations 
among children with haemodynamically significant CHD when compared to placebo.  This endpoint 
was identical to that used in the initial pivotal trial MI-CP018 used to license palivizumab worldwide. 
The primary safety endpoint was to describe the safety and tolerance of palivizumab compared with 
placebo. 
Secondary endpoints included 
1.  RSV hospitalisation outcomes as measured by total days of RSV hospitalisation per 100 
randomised children. 
2.  Total RSV hospital days with increased oxygen requirement per 100 randomised children  
3.  Incidence and total days of RSV-associated intensive care per 100 randomised children. 
4.  Incidence and total days of RSV-associated mechanical ventilation per 100 randomised children. 
5.  The effect of cardiac bypass on serum palivizumab concentrations. 
6.  Palivizumab trough concentrations before the second and fifth doses. 
RSV  hospitalisation  was  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  of  the  trial.  A  total  of  34  (5.3%)  of  the  
639 children in the palivizumab group met the primary endpoint of RSV hospitalisation compared to 
63 (9.7%) of the 648 children in the placebo group (p=0.003). This represents a 45% relative reduction 
of  RSV  hospitalisations  among  children  receiving  palivizumab.  Three  (0.5%)  and  9  (1.4%)  of  the 
children  in  the  palivizumab  and  placebo  group  had  “nosocomial  RSV  hospitalisation”.  One  (0.2%) 
child  in  each  group  died  in  the  ER  from  RSV  bronchiolitis;  these  deaths  were  included  as  RSV 
hospitalisations.  In  each  year  of  the  study,  the  incidence  of  RSV  hospitalisation  was  lower  in  the 
palivizumab group than in the placebo group with peaks in December, January and February.  
Primary Analysis 
Palivizumab (n=639) 
Placebo (n=648) 
p-value 
RSV hospitalisation 
34 (5.3%) 
No RSV Hospitalisation 
605 (94.7%) 
63 (9.7%) 
585 (90.3%) 
0.003 
The  number  of  non-completers  was  balanced  between  the  treatment  groups.  Accounting  for  non-
completers the result remained in favour of palivizumab. Results were robust in sensitivity analyses. 
When  accounting  for  missing  RSV  antigen  tests  within  the  prespecified  time  frame  in  children  who 
were hospitalised for acute cardiorespiratory illness that could have been caused by RSV (14 (2.2%) 
children in the palivizumab group and 9 (1.4%) in the placebo group) the result remained statistically 
significant in favour of palivizumab (p 0 0.004). The result was similar when accounting for children 
hospitalised with virological evidence for RSV but not meeting the protocol-defined criteria for RSV 
hospitalisation (p = 0.002). 
A secondary analysis, accounting for the cardiac strata (cyanotic and ‘other’) by means of a Mantel-
Haenszel  test  resulted  in  a  p-value  of  0.003.  Although  the  number  for  RSV  hospitalisation  was  in 
favour of palivizumab in both strata the effect was more pronounced in the ‘other’ stratum.  
12/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  logistic  regression  analysis  was  performed  to  assess  the  effect  of  predefined  baseline  variables 
(cardiac stratum, gender and age) on the primary study outcome. Beside the treatment group, only age 
was statistically significant, indicating a decreasing risk of RSV hospitalisation with increased age at 
study entry. 
In  general,  the  reduction  of  RSV  hospitalisations  was  also  consistent  within  subgroups  of  children 
defined  by  gender,  age,  weight,  race,  and  presence  of  RSV  neutralising  antibody  at  entrance.  
The incidence of RSV hospitalisations in the palivizumab group was decreased relative to the placebo 
group, in the US 44%, in Canada 36% and Europe 57%. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were used to describe the RSV disease severity in hospitalised patients. 
For  quantitative  parameter  the  results  of  these  endpoints  were  expressed  as  total  days  per  
100 randomised children. The results are summarised below: 
Palivizumab 
Placebo 
% Reduction 
p-value 
N=639 
N=648 
Days of RSV Hospitalisation 
Total Days/100 Children 
RSV Hospital Days of Increased Supplemental 
Oxygen Therapy 
57.4 
129.0 
56% 
Total Days/100 Children 
27.9 
101.5 
73% 
ICU Admission 
Yes 
Days in ICU Stay 
Total Days/100 Children 
Mechanical Ventilation 
Yes 
Days of Mechanical Ventilation 
13 (2.0%) 
24 (3.7%) 
46 % 
15.9 
71.2 
78% 
8 (1.3%) 
14 (2.2%) 
41% 
0.003 
0.014 
0.094 
0.282 
0.224 
Total Days/100 Children 
6.5 
54.7 
88% 
All  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  revealed  an  advantage  in  favour  of  the  palivizumab  group.  
The number of hospitalisation days in the palivizumab group (57.4 days per 100 children vs. 129 days; 
p=0.003)  was  relatively  reduced  by  56%.  A  smaller  percent  of  palivizumab  than  placebo  patients  
(27.9 days per 100 children vs. 101.5 days; p=0.014; relative reduction 73%) had an increased  need 
for supplemental oxygen therapy in the hospital. The palivizumab group also showed a similar trend 
towards  fewer  ICU  admissions  and  mechanical  ventilation  as  well  as  towards  days  in  ICU  stay  and 
days of mechanical ventilation as compared to placebo. 
Administration of more than 5 doses 
The half-life of palivizumab is 17-20 days, which is comparable to human IgG antibody. To maintain 
a  target trough level of 30  mcg/ml, it is essential that injections  be given every 30 days to maintain 
adequate protective trough levels throughout the entire RSV season.  From the original authorisation 
the  number  of  doses  utilised  in  both  large  randomised  trials  was  based  on  the  average  length  of  the 
RSV season (November through March) observed in the northern hemisphere temperate countries that 
participated in these studies (5 doses).  
The current dosing recommendation for palivizumab is, 15 mg/kg of body weight, given once a month 
during  anticipated  periods  of  RSV  risk  in  the  community.  Where  possible,  the  first  dose  should  be 
administered  prior  to  commencement  of  the  RSV  season.  Subsequent  doses  should  be  administered 
monthly throughout the RSV season. In warmer countries, the RSV season is frequently longer than in 
13/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
temperate  countries;  therefore,  more  than  five  monthly  injections  may  be  required  to  maintain 
adequate palivizumab trough levels to ensure protection over the entire RSV season.   
Since the original authorisation, data has been collected regarding the safety of administration of more 
than 5 doses of palivizumab.  
Clinical Efficacy: 
The  Abbott  Study  W00-350  was  a  phase  II,  open  label,  prospective  trial  designed  to  assess  pK  and 
safety  issues  in  premature  or  BPD/CLD  infants  receiving  up  to  7  monthly  i.m.  injections  of 
Palivizumab at doses of 15mg/kg. Eighteen children were enrolled and 17 completed treatment.  
Palivizumab Assay Results 
Study Visit* 
Number of Subjects 
≥30 
<30 
mcg/ml 
mcg/ml 
<LOQ 
NRP 
Total 
Mean ± Standard 
Deviation† 
Visit 1 
Visit 2 
Visit 5 
Visit 7 
N = 18 
0 
13 
18 
11 
0 
1 
0 
0 
15 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
15 
15 
18 
12 
0 ± 0 
47.04 ± 18.44 
127.89 ± 39.69 
137.99 ± 47.91 
LOQ = limit of quantification, mcg/ml = mcg/ml of palivizumab, NRP = not reported 
* Blood was drawn prior to study drug administration at each visit 
† Values below the lower limit of quantification were excluded from analysis. 
The study showed that serum palivizumab levels are similar after the 7th and 5th doses of palivizumab 
and were within the range of those observed in previous palivizumab studies.  There was no indication 
of  a  fall  in  serum  palivizumab  levels  with  increasing  number  of  doses  and  no  evidence  of  drug 
accumulation. Serum levels were within the range previously correlated with protection.   
Safety 
Safety  data  demonstrate  that  palivizumab   at  a  dose  of  15  mg/kg  IM  is  safe  and  well  tolerated.  
In  general,  there  were  few  differences  in  adverse  event  (AE)  incidence  between  patients  who  had 
received  palivizumab   and  those  who  had  received  placebo.  Site  of  injection  reactions  occurred  in 
1.8%  of  placebo  patients  and  3.5%  of  palivizumab  recipients.  The  most  common  IM  reaction  was 
erythema  (1.2%  placebo  patients,  1.7%  palivizumab)  and  this  was  transient  and  generally  mild  in 
severity. The incidence of diarrhoea related to study drug was 0.3% in the placebo group and 0.9% in 
the palivizumab group. Rashes occurred slightly more often in patients treated with palivizumab than 
placebo. Elevation of liver enzymes was measured more often in palivizumab treated patients than in 
the placebo group. 
No  medically  important  differences  were  observed  in  AEs  by  body  system  or  when  evaluated  in 
subgroups  of  children  by  clinical  category,  gender,  age,  gestational  age,  country,  race/ethnicity,  or 
quartile  serum  palivizumab  concentration.  No  significant  difference  in  safety  profile  was  observed 
14/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
between  children  without  active  RSV  infection  and  those  hospitalised  for  RSV.  Permanent 
discontinuation  of  palivizumab  due  to  a  drug-related  AE  was  rare  (0.2%).  Deaths  were  balanced 
between the integrated placebo and palivizumab groups and were not drug-related. Although patients 
across  the  studies  experienced  a  relatively  large  number  of  total  AE  and  serious  AE,  these  were  in 
general  matched  between  the  palivizumab   and  placebo  groups  and  are  typical  of  prematurity  and 
BPD.  
Children less than two years of age and with haemodynamically significant congenital heart disease 
In  study  MI-CP048  Results,  the  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  was  lower  in  the  palivizumab 
group compared with the placebo group. No fatalities were attributed to the study drug and generally 
there are no indications that the drug will exhibit safety problems in the CHD patient population that 
would not be reflected in the total population receiving palivizumab.  
A total  of 1236 patients (96%) reported 8687 adverse events with a similar distribution between the 
two  treatment  groups.  Adverse  events  concerning  the  respiratory  system  were  the  most  commonly 
reported (in 83.3% of the patients), followed by digestive (51.8%) and cardiovascular (46.7%) events. 
Adverse events mapping to the other body systems were balanced between treatment groups, whether 
as a whole or when evaluated by cardiac strata.  
The overall distribution of adverse events by severity was similar between treatment groups, as well as 
within each stratum, for each of the body systems.  
Adverse events with an incidence ≥ 1% and higher in the Palivizumab Group compared to Placebo 
The  incidence  of  adverse  events  by  COSTART  preferred  term  that  were  reported  in  ≥1%  of 
palivizumab patients during the study was similar to the rates in the placebo group. 
Fever  occurred  in  27.1%  of  palivizumab  treated  infants  versus  23.9%  of  placebo  treated  infants. 
However, fever higher than 40.5º persisting >48 hours occurred only in 1 (0.2%) patient in the placebo 
group.  
Infection was reported in  36 (5.6%)  patients in the palivizumab  group and 19 (2.9%) patients in the 
placebo  group.  Events  occurred  at  low  frequency  and  no  adverse  event  was  related  to  study  drug.  
The  incidence  of  bacterial,  fungal,  parasitic  or  viral  infections  were  balanced  between  treatment 
groups. Viral infections and sepsis were reported in 41 (6.4%) and 14 (2.2%) patients, respectively in 
the palivizumab group and 48(7.4%) and 17 (2.6%) patients, respectively in the placebo group. 
Upper Respiratory Tract Infection was reported in 303 (47.4%) patients in the palivizumab group and 
299  (46.1%)  in  the  placebo  group.  Related  adverse  events  occurred  rarely,  related  SAEs  never.  
SAEs were balanced with 31 (4.9%) patients in the palivizumab group and 25 (3.9%) patients in the 
placebo group.  
Arrhythmia was reported in 20 (3.1%) and 11 (1.7%) patients in the palivizumab and placebo groups, 
respectively. No adverse event was judged to be related to study drug 
Adverse events coding to cyanosis were reported in 58 (9.1%) patients in the palivizumab group and 
45 (6.9%) patients in the placebo group. Adverse events coding to preferred terms for cardiovascular 
conditions related to cyanosis were either balanced or favoured palivizumab. Adverse events coding to 
preferred terms for respiratory conditions related to cyanosis were balanced between treatment groups. 
In  summary,  cyanosis  and  cyanotic  events  were  balanced  equally  between  palivizumab  and  placebo 
groups in CHD patients as a whole, and in the cyanotic stratum of patients in this study. 
Because  the  target  CHD  patient  population  is  extremely  fragile,  a  post  marketing  safety 
surveillance program was considered necessary. 
15/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration of more than 5 doses 
Palivizumab  has  been  licensed  in  50  countries  worldwide.    The  product  is  used  in  countries  with  
tropical  climates  where  the  RSV  season  may  be  prolonged.    Since  the  current  labelled  dosing 
recommends  administration  of  palivizumab  in  terms  of  season  length,  rather  than  specific  months, 
palivizumab has been administered for more than 5 months in such areas. As a result, postmarketing 
data has been accumulated where infants have received more than 5 doses of palivizumab.  These data 
are  limited  in  that  no  one  collection  of  data  address  all  key  components  of  a  safety  assessment 
previously  indicated  to  be  relevant  to  palivizumab:  clinical  adverse  events,  pharmacokinetics,  and 
immunogenicity.    The  sources  of  these  data  are  a  postmarketing  patient  registry,  the  Abbott 
Pharmacovigilance safety database, and the results from the small clinical trial (W00-350).  
From  the  clinical  study  W00-350,  subjects  were  observed  for  adverse  events  related  to  palivizumab 
use. Only one subject tested positive for RSV during the study. None of the reported adverse events 
were  considered  related  to  palivizumab  and  no  deaths  were  reported.  The  postmarketing  data  is 
presented in the Post marketing Experience section. 
The MAH has provided evidence that the injection of up to 7 doses of palivizumab does not lead to 
more adverse events in the target patient population. However, the MAH has not provided convincing 
data  to  support  that  the  product  may  be  given  at  monthly  interval  for  more  than  7  months.  
The wording of the SPC clearly reflects this. 
Immunogenicity 
Because  palivizumab  is  a  monoclonal  antibody  with  5%  murine  antibody  sequences  the  attention  is 
focused on adverse events that could be immune-mediated. Although no significant formation of anti-
palivizumab  antibodies  and  no  associated  clinical  adverse  reactions  have  been  shown  in  previous 
clinical  trials,  it  remains  unclear  whether  in  this  trial  patients  receiving  palivizumab  prophylaxis 
developed RSV neutralising antibodies 
The potential sensitising properties of repeated injections with Palivizumab was assessed in the W00-
350  study  in  Saudi  Arabia.    Only  one  subject  out  of  eighteen  had  a  transient,  minimal  elevation  of 
anti-palivizumab  antibody  titre  after  the  second  dose  and  elevations  were  not  observed  in  the  other 
subjects. 
Post-marketing experience: 
With regard to the events reported during the post-marketing experience, the SPC has been updated to 
include a warning related to the fact that injections of palivizumab may be associated with the risk of 
allergic  and  anaphylactic  reactions,  as  well  as  a  warning  on  the  necessity  that  medications  for  the 
treatment  of  severe  hypersensitivity  reactions  should  be  available  for  immediate  use  following 
administration of palivizumab. 
Furthermore,  “Apnoea”  has  been  included  as  a  rare  adverse  drug  reaction  and  “Anaphylaxis, 
urticaria”, as a very rare adverse drug reaction in the SPC.  
Because palivizumab  is a monoclonal antibody comprised in small part of murine antibody sequences 
(5%),  careful  attention  was  given  throughout  the  clinical  program  to  AEs,  which  could  be  immune-
mediated. This investigation revealed no evidence of a clinically significant immune response directed 
against palivizumab. During the first prophylactic course with palivizumab reactivity (i.e. human anti-
human  antibodies  -  HAHA)  was  low  (approximately  1%),  transient  and  of  low  titre.  One  of  the  
56 children who received palivizumab during a second RSV-season developed HAHA, which resolved 
despite  continued  use  of  palivizumab.  Two  children  with  pre-existing  low-titred  HAHA  did  not 
develop  anti-palivizumab  antibodies  during  the  second  winter  on  palivizumab.  Thus,  the  observed 
HAHA appear not to be of clinical relevance. 
Considering the enhancement of the severity of disease induced by the use of a formalin-inactivated 
RSV  vaccine,  specific  efforts  were  made  to  assess  this  particular  issue.  Extensive  preclinical  
16/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(see pharmacodynamics) and clinical data suggest that RSV antibodies, and in particular palivizumab, 
do  not  enhance  the  severity  of  RSV  disease,  but  rather  reduce  the  RSV  pulmonary  replication  and 
reduce the incidence of hospitalisation in children.  
In  the  randomised,  placebo-controlled  treatment  study,  MI-CP026,  tracheal  washes  of  children 
intubated for severe RSV disease were titred for RSV before treatment and daily thereafter. The next 
table shows the mean tracheal RSV titre for the placebo and palivizumab groups, both of which had 
mean titres of 4.8 log10 before treatment. At two days after treatment, the mean tracheal RSV titre had 
declined by 1.0 log10 in placebo recipients and by 2.5 log10 in palivizumab recipients (p=0.012). 
RSV plaque assay titre (log10) in tracheal aspirate, MI-CP026 
Placebo 
N=18 
4.8 (0.3) 
Palivizumab 
N=16 
4.8 (0.3) 
(SE)  at 
p-value 
Mean 
titre 
study entry (day 0) 
Decrease in titre on  
Day 1 
Day 2 
0.6 (0.2) 
1.0 (0.4) 
1.7 (0.3) 
2.5 (0.3) 
0.004 
0.012 
The  clinical  studies  including  the  pivotal  and  phase  I/II  (MI-CP009  and  MI-CP013)  indicate  that 
Synagis  does  not  enhance  RSV  disease  severity.  The  results  from  MI-CP009  and  MI-CP013  as 
presented  in  the  next  table  show  no  significant  difference  in  the  duration  of  hospitalisation,  days  of 
hospitalisation  requiring  oxygen  therapy  or  days  of  mechanical  ventilation  between  placebo  and 
palivizumab groups. 
Number of patients 
Days of RSV hospitalisation  
Total days  
Mean days  
Days/100 patients 
Days  of  mechanical  ventilation 
Total days  
Mean days 
Days/100 patients 
Days of increased supplemental O2 
Total days  
Mean days 
Days/100 patients 
Placebo 
N=36 
218.0 
6.05 (1.04) 
589.1 
39.6 
7.91 (2.62) 
106.9 
42.0 
3.23 (1.22) 
113.5 
Palivizumab 
N=37 
162.6 
4.39 (0.68) 
439.5 
33.0 
4.71 (1.01) 
89.1 
37.0 
2.47 (0.41) 
100.0 
No  formal  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  performed  with  palivizumab.  However,  given  the 
specificity  of  the  monoclonal  antibody  to  RSV  it  would  not  be  expected  to  interfere  with  live  viral 
vaccines, as is the case with immune preparations. In addition, given the normal metabolic pathway of 
immunoglobulins, no interaction would be expected between palivizumab  and medications, which are 
cleared  by  the  liver  or  kidney.  In  the  pivotal  trial,  no  specific  adverse  events  attributable  to  the 
interaction  of  palivizumab   and  corticosteroids,  bronchodilators,  routine  childhood  immunisations  or 
influenza vaccine were evident.  
Palivizumab  is  estimated  to  be  given  to  55,000  children  in  US  during  the  1998-1999  respiratory 
disease  season.  An  analysis  of  available  postmarketing  data  in  US  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  these 
data do not change the safety profile of palivizumab. These data come either from spontaneous reports 
or  through  the  company’s  RSV  education  and  compliance  helpline  (REACH  programme)  which 
follows 7,001 children.  
17/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post marketing surveillance 
Post marketing Clinical Surveillance Program (REACH)  
The population of infants followed in this program represented 13% of the estimated total population 
in  infants  who  received  palivizumab  in  the  United  States  during  the  two  years  it  was  conducted.   
The total number of infants enrolled in the REACH program reached almost 20,000 infants. 
Adverse  events  occurred  in  1%  of  infants  receiving  6  or  more  doses.    It  is  claimed  that  all  of  the 
adverse events occurring after administration of a 6th or greater dose occurred with the 6th dose and not 
with subsequent doses (up to 9 doses).  The estimated frequency of adverse events with each dose was 
similar  irrespective  of  the  dose  number.    In  addition,  the  nature  of  the  adverse  events  that  were 
reported in 15 children was similar to those previously observed in the IMpact trial, and subsequently 
observed in MI-CP048.  
Abbott Post marketing Safety Surveillance  
The  Abbott  Postmarketing  Safety  database  was  searched  for  all  palivizumab  serious  adverse  event 
reports received from the international birth date (19 June 1998) to 19 June 2002, encompassing four 
complete seasons of palivizumab use. A convention to identify serious cases occurring in infants who 
received 6 or more doses were developed.  In contrast to the REACH database, this approach does not 
allow an estimation of frequency, as there was no way to ascertain the total number of children who 
had  received  6  or  more  doses  of  palivizumab.    The  character  of  the  serious  adverse  events  was 
compared  between  the  groups  in  infants  who  received  5  or  fewer  doses  of  palivizumab  in  a  single 
season, and those who received 6 or more doses.  
A total of 1291 serious adverse events were identified, 73 of which could be identified as occurring in 
patients  receiving  6  or  more  doses  of  palivizumab  in  a  single  RSV  season.    The  adverse  events 
described in patients receiving 6 or more doses of palivizumab were similar in character to the adverse 
events  described  in  patients  who  received  fewer  than  6  doses  or  an  unspecified  number  of  doses.  
Fifty-one of these patients experienced an adverse event after one of the first 5 doses, 19 patients after 
receiving a sixth or greater dose, and three patients experienced adverse events both after one of the 
first five doses and after six or greater  doses.  The events in  these  three  patients  were disparate and 
were related to a previously existing underlying condition in two (reactive airway disease and reflux).  
The  small  number  of  any  specific  event  occurring  after  6  or  more  doses  prevents  a  conclusion 
regarding relative frequency, but the pattern of events does not indicate a pattern of hypersensitivity or 
other adverse event when 6 or more doses of palivizumab were administered. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Safety  data  demonstrate  that  palivizumab   at  a  dose  of  15  mg/kg  IM  is  safe  and  well  tolerated.  
The  efficacy  of  palivizumab  was  assessed  with  regard  to  the  facts,  that  RSV  is  the  most  common 
cause  of  LRI  in  infants,  especially  in  those  of  premature  gestation  and  BPD  and  that  serious  RSV 
disease  is  the  primary  cause  of  rehospitalisation  of  these  infants.  The  reduction  of  the  RSV 
hospitalisation  rate  by  55%  and  the  reductions  in  all  secondary  endpoints  except  those  with  low 
frequency provide medically significant evidence of efficacy. Thus, over half the children were spared 
hospitalisation,  the  complications  of  a  severe  disease  course  and  the  stress  of  subsequent  treatment 
regime. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
decision  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Synagis  was  favourable  for  the  prevention  of  serious  lower 
respiratory  tract  disease  requiring  hospitalisation  caused  by  respiratory  syncytial  virus  (RSV)  in 
children  at  high  risk  for  RSV  disease:  Children  born  at  35  weeks  of  gestation  or  less  and  less  than  
6  months  of  age  at  the  onset  of  the  RSV  season,  Children  less  than  2  years  of  age  and  requiring 
treatment for bronchopulmonary dysplasia within the last 6 months, Children less than 2 years of age 
and with haemodynamically significant congenital heart disease. 
18/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 year Renewal: 
Based on the CHMP review of the available information, the CHMP considered that the quality, the 
safety  and  the  efficacy  of  this  medicinal  product  continues  to  be  adequately  and  sufficiently 
demonstrated and therefore considered by consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Synagis continues 
to be favourable.  
The Committee for Human  Medicinal Products recommended therefore the renewal of the Marketing 
Authorisation  for  Synagis,  provided  that  the  MAH  agrees  to  submit    annuals  PSURs    and  in  the 
PSURs closely focus on the  safety data with respect to a) risk of enhanced RSV infection in the 2nd 
season,  b)  the  new  target  population  CHD-children  and  c)children  receiving  more  than  5  doses 
annually. 
19/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
  
 
