23 April 2015 
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 - adopted 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Synflorix  
International non-proprietary name: PNEUMOCOCCAL POLYSACCHARIDE 
CONJUGATE VACCINE (ADSORBED) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000973/II/0092 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur(s) and type of application 
CHMP Rapporteur:  
Kristina Dunder 
This application is in the area of: 
Clinical   
Assessment Timetable/Steps taken for the assessment 
Timetable 
Start of procedure: 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP comments 
Rapporteur Revised Assessment Report 
Request for Supplementary Information 
MAH submitted responses: 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP comments 
Rapporteur Revised Assessment Report 
Opinion 
Dates 
28 December 2014 
30 January 2015 
16 February 2015 
23 February 2015 
26 February 2015 
19 March 2015 
 2 April 2015 
13 April 2015 
17 April 2015 
23 April 2015 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 2/39 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Requested type II variation ................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Rationale for the proposed change ......................................................................... 4 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ..................... 5 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 5 
4. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
4.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 5 
4.2. Clinical Efficacy aspects ........................................................................................ 6 
4.2.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted .................................................................. 6 
4.2.1. Results ........................................................................................................... 12 
4.2.2. Discussion ...................................................................................................... 32 
4.3. Clinical Safety aspects ........................................................................................ 33 
4.3.1. Results ........................................................................................................... 33 
4.3.2. Discussion ...................................................................................................... 35 
4.4. Changes to the Product Information ..................................................................... 35 
5. Request for supplementary information ................................................ 36 
5.1. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 36 
6. Assessment of the responses to the request for supplementary information
 ................................................................................................................. 36 
6.1. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 36 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 3/39 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals submitted 
to the European Medicines Agency on 26 November 2014 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data  
Update of section 4.4 of the SmPC and corresponding section of the PL in order to reflect results from study 
10PN-PD-DIT-050 which aimed to determine whether ibuprofen given prophylactically, significantly impacts 
the immune response in children receiving primary vaccination with Synflorix, co-administered with 
DTPa-combined vaccines, at 3, 4 and 5 months of age and a booster dose at 12-15 months of age. The 
impact of antipyretics on the incidence of febrile reactions and other safety and reactogenicity parameters 
was evaluated as well. This submission fulfils the obligations with regards to Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package 
Leaflet. 
1.2.  Rationale for the proposed change 
The MAH has submitted a type II variation to update section 4.4 of the Synflorix Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) based on the results of the clinical study 10PN-PD-DIT-050 which aimed to 
determine whether ibuprofen or paracetamol given prophylactically in an immediate or delayed manner, 
significantly impacts the immune response in children receiving primary vaccination with Synflorix. 
The present type II variation also aims to fulfil the following post-authorisation measure included in the 
Synflorix Risk Management Plan (RMP): 
PAM 
Description of activity (or study 
title if known) 
Milestone(s)  Due Date(s) 
MEA 014 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-050 (112921): Impact 
Final clinical study 
30/11/2014 
of prophylactic and delayed administration 
of Ibuprofen on vaccine immunogenicity 
report 
Additionally, the submission of the final report for study 10PN-PD-DIT-050 aims to fulfil the MAH’s 
obligations with regards to Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 4/39 
 
  
  
 
 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
In this study, there were no effects of prophylactic ibuprofen administration, either immediate or delayed, on 
the immune responses to Synflorix, or the routine childhood vaccines given concomitantly with Synflorix. 
The same conclusions can be drawn for both primary and booster vaccinations. In agreement with other 
studies, there was a reduction of immune responses, when prophylactic paracetamol, either immediate or 
delayed, was administered both with Synflorix and some concomitant vaccine antigens.  
There were no beneficial effects of immediate administration of ibuprofen compared to no ibuprofen in terms 
of fever reduction, and a trend towards fever reduction in delayed ibuprofen administration. There were no 
new safety signals, and the overall safety profile was in agreement with previous studies. 
The proposed updates of section 4.4 of the SmPC and corresponding changes to the PL are endorsed.  
The benefit-risk balance of Synflorix remains positive. The following post approval commitment has been 
fulfilled with this variation - MEA 014. 
Scientific Summary for the EPAR 
Prophylactic administration of antipyretics before or immediately after vaccine administration can reduce 
the incidence and intensity of post-vaccination febrile reactions. Clinical data generated with ibuprofen 
suggest that its delayed use might reduce fever, while prophylactic use of ibuprofen showed a limited effect. 
Furthermore, the clinical data generated with paracetamol suggest that it might reduce the immune 
response to Synflorix. However, the clinical relevance of this observation is not known. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.4  
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
quality, preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Update of section 4.4 of the SmPC and corresponding section of the Package Leaflet with the information on 
effects of paracetamol and ibuprofen used prophylactically on fever and immune responses following 
primary vaccination and a booster dose of Synflorix. This submission fulfils the obligations with regards to 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006. 
 is recommended for approval. 
The requested group of variations leads to amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet. 
4.  Scientific discussion 
4.1.  Introduction 
Synflorix is a 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine containing polysaccharides of pneumococcal 
serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14 and 23F conjugated individually to protein D (PD), a non-lipidated form of 
a highly conserved protein of non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi), serotype 18C conjugated to 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 5/39 
 
  
  
 
tetanus toxoid (TT) and serotype 19F conjugated to diphtheria (DT) toxoid. Synflorix was licensed by the 
European Commission (EC) on 30 March 2009. 
To date, Synflorix is licensed for the active immunisation against invasive disease, pneumonia and acute 
otitis media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae (serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F) in 
infants and children from 6 weeks up to 5 years of age.   
The practice to give antipyretics prophylactically has been questioned due to some findings in clinical 
studies. The immune responses to Synflorix were found to decrease when paracetamol was given 
prophylactically, to decrease fever reactions. The same has been found for other vaccines. This application 
contains data from study 10PN-PD-DIT-050, where the aim was to study whether ibuprofen given 
prophylactically in an immediate or delayed manner, significantly impacts the immune response in children 
receiving primary vaccination with Synflorix, co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccines, at 3, 4 and 5 
months of age and a booster dose at 12-15 months of age. 
4.2.  Clinical Efficacy aspects 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-050 was a phase IV randomised, open, controlled study to assess the effect of 
immediate or delayed prophylactic antipyretic treatment (ibuprofen or paracetamol) on the immunogenicity 
and safety following primary vaccination with Synflorix co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccines at 3, 
4 and 5 months of age and booster vaccination at 12-15 months of age. 
4.2.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Objectives 
Primary: 
• 
To show that GSK Biologicals’ 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine administered as a 
three-dose primary vaccination course with immediate OR delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment 
is non-inferior to 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine without prophylactic ibuprofen 
treatment in terms of percentage of subjects with pneumococcal antibody concentrations ≥0.2 
μg/mL, despite a statistically significant decrease in ELISA Geometric Mean Concentration (GMC). 
Secondary: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To determine the percentage reduction in febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38.0°C) when 
immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment is administered compared to no prophylactic 
ibuprofen treatment, after primary vaccination with GSK Biologicals’ 10-valent pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccines. 
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the 
immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered 
with DTPa-combined vaccines as a three-dose primary vaccination course. 
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the incidence 
of febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38.0°C) after primary vaccination with GSK Biologicals' 
10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccines. 
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment on the incidence of 
febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38.0 C) after booster vaccination with GSK Biologicals' 
10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 6/39 
 
  
  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To assess the impact of immediate prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the incidence of febrile 
reactions (rectal temperature ≥38.0 C) after booster vaccination with GSK Biologicals' 10-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccine. 
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment on the safety and 
reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and DTPa-combined 
vaccines, when administered as a three-dose primary vaccination course or as a booster dose. 
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the safety and 
reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and DTPa-combined 
vaccines, when administered as a three-dose primary vaccination course. 
To assess the impact of immediate prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the safety and 
reactogenicity of a booster dose of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and 
DTPa-combined vaccine. 
To assess, prior to booster vaccination, the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen 
treatment on the persistence of antibodies induced by GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine and DTPa-combined vaccines given as primary vaccination course. 
To assess, prior to booster vaccination, the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic 
paracetamol treatment on the persistence of antibodies induced by GSK Biologicals' 10-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and DTPa-combined vaccines given as primary vaccination course. 
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment on the 
immunogenicity of a booster dose of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 
co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccine. 
To assess the impact of immediate prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the immunogenicity of a 
booster dose of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with 
DTPa-combined vaccine. 
Treatment: 
The study groups were as follows: 
Primary vaccination: 
IBU groups: 
• 
IIBU group (Immediate ibuprofen group): subjects receiving immediate ibuprofen administration 
after each primary vaccine dose (N = 210). 
•  DIBU group (Delayed ibuprofen group): subjects receiving delayed ibuprofen administration after 
each primary vaccine dose (N = 210). 
•  NIBU group (No ibuprofen group): subjects receiving no prophylactic ibuprofen administration after 
each primary vaccine dose (N = 210). 
PARA groups: 
• 
IPARA group (Immediate paracetamol group): subjects receiving immediate paracetamol 
administration after each primary vaccine dose (N = 70). 
•  DPARA group (Delayed paracetamol group): subjects receiving delayed paracetamol 
administration after each primary vaccine dose (N = 70). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 7/39 
 
  
  
 
•  NPARA group (No paracetamol group): subjects receiving no prophylactic paracetamol 
administration after each primary vaccine dose (N = 70). 
Booster vaccination: 
IBU groups: 
• 
• 
• 
IIBU-IIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary IIBU group receiving immediate ibuprofen 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
IIBU-DIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary IIBU group receiving delayed ibuprofen 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
IIBU-NIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary IIBU group receiving no prophylactic 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  DIBU-IIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary DIBU group receiving immediate ibuprofen 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  DIBU-DIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary DIBU group receiving delayed ibuprofen 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  DIBU-NIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary DIBU group receiving no prophylactic 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  NIBU-IIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary NIBU group receiving immediate ibuprofen 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  NIBU-DIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary NIBU group receiving delayed ibuprofen 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  NIBU-NIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary NIBU group receiving no prophylactic 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
PARA groups: 
• 
IPARA-NPARA group: subjects from the primary IPARA group receiving no paracetamol 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  DPARA-IPARA group: subjects from the primary DPARA group receiving immediate paracetamol 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  NPARA-IPARA group: subjects from the primary NPARA group receiving immediate paracetamol 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
Study Population:  
Male or female infants between, and including, 12 and 16 weeks (84-118 days) of age at the time of the first 
vaccination, born after a gestation period of 36 to 42 weeks inclusive, free of obvious health problems as 
established by medical history and clinical examination before entering into the study and for whom the 
investigator believed that their parents/guardians could and would comply with the requirements of the 
protocol. Written informed consent was obtained from the parents/guardians of each subject. 
Primary Outcome/Efficacy Variable: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 8/39 
 
  
  
 
 
• 
Evaluation of immune responses to components of the investigational vaccine one month after 
primary immunization. 
o  Anti-pneumococcal antibody serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F antibody 
concentrations ≥0.2 μg/mL. 
o  Concentrations of antibodies against the 10 vaccine pneumococcal serotypes.  
o  Concentrations of antibodies against protein D. 
Secondary Outcome/Efficacy Variables: 
Safety 
•  Occurrence of each solicited adverse event (AE) within 4 days (Days 0 to 3) after each primary 
vaccination dose and following booster vaccination. 
o 
Local (any, grade 3) AEs.  
o  General (any, grade 3, related) AEs. 
•  Occurrence of unsolicited AEs within 31 days (Days 0 to 30) after each primary vaccination dose and 
following booster vaccination. 
•  Occurrence of serious adverse events (SAEs) during the entire study period. 
Immunogenicity 
• 
Evaluation of immune responses to components of the investigational vaccine for additional 
parameters, one month after primary immunization, prior to and one month after booster 
immunization: 
o  Concentrations of antibodies against pneumococcal serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 
18C, 19A, 19F, 23F. 
o  Opsonophagocytic activity (OPA) against pneumococcal serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 
14, 18C, 19A, 19F, 23F. 
o  Concentrations of antibodies against protein D. 
• 
Evaluation of immune responses to components of the co-administered DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and 
DTPa-IPV/Hib vaccines, one month after primary immunization, prior to and one month after 
booster immunization: 
o  Antibody concentrations against diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid, pertussis toxoid, 
filamentous haemagglutinin, pertactin, hepatitis B surface antigen, polyribosylribitol 
phosphate. 
o  Poliovirus types 1, 2 and 3 titres*. 
*Note that the polio results were not included in the variation application. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis of demographics 
The analysis of demographics were performed separately for each epoch: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 9/39 
 
  
  
 
•  Demographic characteristics (age in weeks at the time of each dose of primary vaccination and in 
months at the time of the booster dose, gender, weight, geographic ancestry) of each study cohort 
were tabulated. 
• 
The mean age (plus range and standard deviation) of the enrolled subjects as a whole study 
population and per group was calculated. 
Analysis of immunogenicity 
The analysis of immunogenicity was performed separately for each epoch. 
Within groups assessment 
Where appropriate, for each group, at each timepoint that a blood sample result was available: 
•  Geometric Mean Concentrations/Titres (GMCs/GMTs) with 95% CIs were tabulated for each 
serotype/antigen. 
•  Seropositivity/seroprotection rates with exact 95% CIs were calculated for each appropriate 
serotype/antigen. 
•  Vaccine response rates one month post-dose III and one month post-booster dose with exact 95% 
CIs were calculated for each pertussis antigen. 
• 
The distribution of antibody concentrations/titres for each appropriate serotype/antigen was 
displayed using tables and/or RCCs. 
Between group assessment 
Confirmatory inferential analysis 
•  Standardized asymptotic 98.25% CIs for the difference between groups (NIBU group minus IIBU 
group or NIBU group minus DIBU group), in terms of percentage of subjects with pneumococcal 
antibody concentrations ≥0.2 μg/mL one month post dose III, were computed using StatXact. The 
primary objective was demonstrated for one of the two pair-wise group comparisons if the UL of 
these two-sided 98.25% CIs was below 10% for seven out of the 10 vaccine pneumococcal 
serotypes. 
•  99.8% CIs for the ELISA GMCs ratio (GMCs from the IIBU group over the GMCs from NIBU group OR 
GMCs from the DIBU group over the GMCs from NIBU group) one month post-dose III, was 
computed for each of the 10 conjugate vaccine pneumococcal serotypes and for protein D, using a 
one-sided ANOVA test on the logarithm10 transformation of the concentrations. A statistical 
significant difference in GMC was established if the UL of these two-sided 99.8% CIs was below 1 for 
at least one of the 10 vaccine pneumococcal serotypes or for protein D. 
Analysis of safety 
Analysis of safety relative to the primary epoch included analysis of safety data collected following 
administration of the three primary doses of study vaccine. Analysis of safety relative to the booster epoch 
included analysis of safety data collected following administration of the booster dose of study vaccine. At 
this second stage, in order to avoid missing SAEs that were reported, the SAE summary table included all 
events reported during the entire study period. 
Within groups assessment 
• 
The percentage of subjects with at least one local AE (solicited and unsolicited), with at least one 
general AE (solicited and unsolicited) and with any AE during the 31-day (Day 0 - Day 30) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 10/39 
 
  
  
 
post-vaccination period was tabulated with exact 95% CI for each group, after each vaccine dose 
and overall primary doses. The percentage of doses followed by at least one local AE (solicited and 
unsolicited), by at least one general AE (solicited and unsolicited) and by any AE was tabulated for 
each group, over the full primary vaccination course, with exact 95% CI. The same calculations were 
performed for AEs rated as grade 3 and general AEs with causal relationship to vaccination. 
• 
The percentage of subjects reporting each individual solicited local and general AE during the 4-day 
(Day 0 - Day 3) post-vaccination period was tabulated for each group, after each vaccine dose and 
overall primary doses, with exact 95% CI. The percentage of doses followed by each individual 
solicited local and general AE was tabulated for each group, over the full primary vaccination course, 
with exact 95% CI. The same tabulation was performed for grade 3 solicited AEs and for solicited 
AEs with causal relationship to vaccination. For redness and swelling, grade 2 or 3 AEs were also 
tabulated. Occurrence of fever was reported per 0.5°C cumulative increments. 
• 
• 
• 
The proportion of subjects/doses with at least one report of unsolicited AE classified by the Medical 
Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) and reported up to 30 days after primary or booster 
vaccination was tabulated with exact 95% CI for each group. The same tabulation was performed for 
grade 3 unsolicited AEs and for unsolicited AEs with a relationship to vaccination. 
The proportion of AEs resulting in a medically attended visit was also tabulated. 
The number and percentage of subjects who took concomitant antipyretic/medication at least once 
during the 4-day (Day 0 - Day 3) solicited follow-up period were tabulated for each group, after each 
vaccine dose and overall primary doses, with exact 95% CI. The number and percentage of doses for 
which the subjects took concomitant antipyretic/medication at least once during the 4-day (Day 0 - 
Day 3) solicited follow-up period were tabulated for each group, over the full primary vaccination 
course, with exact 95% CI. 
•  SAEs, large swelling reactions (after booster dose) and withdrawal(s) due to SAE(s) were described 
in detail. 
•  Dosage of antipyretics taken and the summary of time interval between study vaccination and 
antipyretics were described in the groups receiving ibuprofen or paracetamol. 
Between group assessment 
Confirmatory inferential analysis: 
•  Standardized asymptotic 97.5% CIs for the difference between groups (NIBU group minus IIBU 
group OR NIBU group minus DIBU group), in percentage of subjects reporting rectal temperature 
≥38.0°C after at least one primary vaccination, were computed using StatXact. 
• 
The first secondary objective was demonstrated if the primary objective was reached and if the LL of 
the 97.5% CI around the difference NIBU group minus IIBU group OR if the LL of the 97.5% CI 
around the difference NIBU group minus DIBU group was higher than 0%. 
Conduct of the study 
During the course of the study, the following issues with regard to the conduct of the study were identified, 
either via site monitoring activities or were brought to GSK Biologicals’attention by other mechanisms. 
These issues were investigated and corrective/preventive actions where possible were taken as described 
below: 
Following a letter notifying GSK about potential improper study conduct at one study site, an assessment of 
this site was performed by the GSK’s Global Quality Assurance group in March 2012. Following comparison 
of diaries from selected subjects, lack of confidence in the integrity of the data was noted. Additionally, there 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 11/39 
 
  
  
were concerns that the conduct of the informed consent process and documentation practices at the site did 
not meet the ICH-GCP requirements. Therefore GSK Biologicals decided to terminate all study-related 
activities at this site. Ethics Committee and Regulatory authorities were informed. All subjects at this site, 
who had not completed the study when site activities were put on hold, were withdrawn from the study and 
offered continuation of vaccination outside the study. All 35 subjects enrolled at this site were eliminated 
from the Total Vaccinated Cohort. Their blood samples were used to assess the immune response to allow 
individual counselling of the impacted study subjects. The SAEs reported for the subjects enrolled at this 
centre are presented separately.  
Assessor’s comment: In addition to the above information, the study was inspected by the Romanian 
authority on October 7 and 10, 2014. The Company has received the preliminary inspection report and is 
preparing a response to the National Drug Agency and Medical Devices to address the observed findings. The 
Company does not consider that the preliminary findings of this inspection have an impact on the data 
quality or study conclusions presented in the present submission. An English summary of the inspection 
report should be provided before a conclusion regarding this variation can be drawn. 
4.2.1.  Results 
Study population 
This multicentre study was conducted in 23 centres in Romania, however all 35 subjects from one site were 
eliminated from the TVC (site closed after audit). Therefore the TVC included 812 subjects enrolled in 22 
centres with a maximum of 210 subjects (25.9%) enrolled in a single study centre. A summary of study 
continuation for subjects initially vaccinated in the primary epoch is presented in Table 21.  
Table 21. Summary of study continuation for subjects initially vaccinated in the primary epoch 
(Primary epoch) (Total vaccinated cohort) 
Out of the 812 subjects vaccinated in the primary epoch, 792 completed the primary vaccination phase and 
20 subjects were withdrawn. Among those, one subject was withdrawn due to an SAE assessed by the 
investigator as not related to vaccination. 
 Out of the 792 subjects who completed the primary vaccination phase, 768 were vaccinated during the 
booster epoch (769 subjects participated in the booster epoch but one subject did not receive the booster 
dose). Among those, 751 subjects completed the study and 17 did not complete the booster phase (one 
subject was withdrawn because of an SAE assessed by the investigator as not related to vaccination). 
Immunogenicity results 
The primary confirmatory objective was to show that Synflorix administered as a three-dose primary 
vaccination course with immediate OR delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment was non-inferior to 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 12/39 
 
  
  
 
 
10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine without prophylactic ibuprofen treatment in terms of percentage 
of subjects with pneumococcal antibody concentrations ≥ 0.2 μg/mL, despite a statistically significant 
decrease in ELISA GMC. 
The results of the confirmatory analysis between groups are presented in the tables: 43-46. 
Table 43. Difference between groups (NIBU minus IIBU) in percentage of subjects with 
pneumococcal antibody concentrations greater or equal to 0.2 μg/mL, one month after dose 
III, for ANTI-1, ANTI-4, ANTI-5, ANTI-6B, ANTI-7F, ANTI-9V, ANTI-14, ANTI-18C, ANTI-19F 
and ANTI-23F (Primary epoch) (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
IIBU = Subjects who received immediate ibuprofen administration following each primary vaccine dose with 
10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib vaccines at 3, 4 and 5 months of age  
NIBU = Subjects who received no ibuprofen administration following each primary vaccine dose with 
10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib vaccines at 3, 4 and 5 months of age 
Table 44. Ratios of GMCs between IIBU over NIBU, for ANTI-1, ANTI-4, ANTI-5,ANTI-6B, 
ANTI-7F, ANTI-9V, ANTI-14, ANTI-18C, ANTI-19F, ANTI-23F and anti-PD antibodies one month 
after dose III (Primary epoch) (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 13/39 
 
  
  
 
 
IIBU = Subjects who received immediate ibuprofen administration following each primary vaccine dose with 
10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib vaccines at 3, 4 and 5 months of age  
NIBU = Subjects who received no ibuprofen administration following each primary vaccine dose with 
10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib vaccines at 3, 4 and 5 months of age 
Table 45. Difference between groups (NIBU minus DIBU) in percentage of subjects with 
pneumococcal antibody concentrations greater or equal to 0.2 μg/mL, one month after dose 
III, for ANTI-1, ANTI-4, ANTI-5, ANTI-6B, ANTI-7F, ANTI-9V, ANTI-14, ANTI-18C, ANTI-19F 
and ANTI-23F (Primary epoch) (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
DIBU = Subjects who received delayed ibuprofen administration following each primary vaccine dose with 
10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib vaccines at 3, 4 and 5 months of age 
NIBU = Subjects who received no ibuprofen administration following each primary vaccine dose with 
10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib vaccines at 3, 4 and 5 months of age 
Table 46. Ratios of GMCs between DIBU over NIBU, for ANTI-1, ANTI-4, ANTI-5, ANTI-6B, 
ANTI-7F, ANTI-9V, ANTI-14, ANTI-18C, ANTI-19F, ANTI-23F and anti-PD antibodies one month 
after dose III (Primary epoch) (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 14/39 
 
  
  
 
 
DIBU = Subjects who received delayed ibuprofen administration following each primary vaccine dose with 
10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib vaccines at 3, 4 and 5 months of age 
NIBU = Subjects who received no ibuprofen administration following each primary vaccine dose with 
10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib vaccines at 3, 4 and 5 months of age 
Assessor’s comment: There is no indication that either concomitant or delayed administration of ibuprofen 
causes diminished immune responses. 
Within groups assessment 
Immune response to the vaccine pneumococcal serotypes (Primary epoch) 
The immune response to the vaccine pneumococcal serotypes as measured by 22F-inhibition ELISA is 
presented in the following table: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 15/39 
 
  
  
 
Table 47. Seropositivity rates and GMCs for ANTI-1, ANTI-4, ANTI-5, ANTI-6B, ANTI-7F, 
ANTI-9V, ANTI-14, ANTI-18C, ANTI-19F and ANTI-23F antibodies (Primary epoch) (ATP cohort 
for immunogenicity) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 16/39 
 
  
  
 
  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 17/39 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 18/39 
 
  
  
 
Booster epoch 
The immune response to the vaccine pneumococcal serotypes as measured by 22F-inhibition ELISA is 
presented in the following table: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 19/39 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 56. Seropositivity rates and GMCs for ANTI-1, ANTI-4, ANTI-5, ANTI-6B, ANTI-7F, 
ANTI-9V, ANTI-14, ANTI-18C, ANTI-19F and ANTI-23F antibodies (Booster epoch) (ATP cohort 
for immunogenicity) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 20/39 
 
  
  
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 21/39 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 22/39 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 23/39 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 24/39 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 25/39 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 26/39 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 27/39 
 
  
  
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 28/39 
 
  
  
 
Immune response to the co-administered DTPa-combined vaccines Primary epoch 
The results for the DTPa antigens are presented in tables 52, 53 and 55. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 29/39 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 52. Seroprotection rates and GMCs for ANTI-DIPHT and ANTI-TET antibodies (Primary 
epoch) (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 30/39 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 53. Seropositivity rates and GMCs for ANTI-PT, ANTI-FHA and ANTI-PRN antibodies 
(Primary epoch) (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 31/39 
 
  
  
  
Table 55. Seroprotection rates and GMCs for ANTI-PRP antibodies (Primary epoch) (ATP cohort 
for immunogenicity) 
Booster responses to the co-administered antigens follow the same pattern as the primary responses.  
Assessor’s comment:  As for the pneumococcal responses, no indication that ibuprophen diminishes the 
immune responses were seen. The responses in the paracetamol receiving groups were slightly lower 
compared to the control group.  
4.2.2.  Discussion 
In this study, there were no effects of prophylactic ibuprofen administration, either delayed or immediate, on 
the immune responses to Synflorix. The same conclusions can be drawn for both primary and booster 
vaccinations. In agreement with other studies, there was a reduction of immune responses to Synflorix when 
prophylactic paracetamol was administered either immediately, or delayed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 32/39 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
4.3.  Clinical Safety aspects 
4.3.1.  Results 
Between groups assessment 
The secondary confirmatory objective was to determine the percentage reduction in febrile reactions (rectal 
temperature ≥38.0°C) when immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment was administered 
compared to no prophylactic ibuprofen treatment, after primary vaccination with GSK Biologicals’ 10-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccines. 
In order to control the type I error, the secondary objective was only assessable if the primary objective was 
met, which is the case. 
The results for the confirmatory analysis between groups are presented in tables 112 and 113. 
Table 112. Difference between groups (NIBU minus IIBU) in percentage of subjects reporting 
fever with rectal temperature ≥ 38.0°C during the 4-day (Days 0-3) after at least one primary 
vaccine dose (Primary epoch) (Total vaccinated cohort) 
Table 113. Difference between groups (NIBU minus DIBU) in percentage of subjects reporting 
fever with rectal temperature ≥ 38.0°C during the 4-day (Days 0-3) after at least one primary 
vaccine dose (Primary epoch) (Total vaccinated cohort) 
Assessor’s comment: There was no difference in fever in the no ibuprofen and immediate ibuprofen, while 
there was a tendency towards lower fever incidence in the delayed ibuprofen group.  
Primary vaccination with 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine and DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib 
•  Any symptom: During the 31-day post-primary vaccination period, the overall/dose incidence of 
reported symptoms (solicited and/or unsolicited; local and/or general) ranged from 70.9% (DPARA 
group) to 85.2% (NPARA group). 
•  Solicited local symptoms: During the 4-day post-primary vaccination period, redness was the 
most frequently reported solicited local symptom (overall/dose incidence ranged from 29.5% [DIBU 
group] to 41.7% [NPARA group]), whatever the injection site, except for the DPARA group where the 
most frequently reported solicited local symptom was pain (overall/dose incidence was 33.3%). The 
overall/dose incidence of reported solicited grade 3 local symptom was not higher than 4.2% [pain 
in the NPARA group], whatever the injection site. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 33/39 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  Solicited general symptoms: During the 4-day post-primary vaccination period, irritability was 
the most frequently reported solicited general symptom (overall/dose incidence ranged from 35.6% 
[IPARA group] to 50.5% [NPARA group]), except for the IPARA group where the most frequently 
reported solicited general symptom was drowsiness (overall/dose incidence was 38.0%). The 
overall/dose incidence of grade 3 solicited general symptoms was not higher than 2.4% (irritability 
in the IPARA group). The incidence of solicited general symptoms with causal relationship to 
vaccination as assessed by the investigator ranged from 9.6% (loss of appetite in the IPARA group) 
to 33.4% (irritability in the NIBU group). 
•  Unsolicited symptoms: During the 31-day post-primary vaccination period, at least one 
unsolicited symptom was reported after a maximum of 9.5% of doses (NPARA group). One grade 3 
unsolicited symptom was reported after 0.2% of doses in the DIBU and NIBU groups and after 0.5% 
of doses in the IPARA group. At least one unsolicited symptom with causal relationship to vaccination 
was reported after 0.3% of doses in the IIBU group, after 0.5% of doses in the DIBU group and after 
1.0% of doses in the IPARA group.  
Booster vaccination with 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine and DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib 
•  Any symptom: During the 31-day post-booster vaccination period, the incidence of reported 
symptom (solicited and/or unsolicited; local and/or general) ranged from 57.6% (IIBU-NIBU group) 
to 83.3% (NIBU-IIBU group). 
•  Solicited local symptoms: During the 4-day post-booster vaccination period, pain and redness 
were the most frequently reported solicited local symptoms (incidence of pain ranged from 25.4% 
[IIBU-NIBU group] to 50.8% [NIBU-DIBU group] and incidence of redness ranged from 24.6% 
[DIBU-DIBU group] to 42.9% [IIBU-IIBU group]), whatever the injection site. Solicited grade 3 local 
symptom were reported for a maximum of 7.9% of subjects [redness in the NIBU-DIBU group], 
whatever the injection site. A large swelling reaction was reported during the primary epoch for one 
subject from the NPARA-IPARA group one day after administration of the third dose of the 
10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine. 
•  Solicited general symptoms: During the 4-day post-booster vaccination period, irritability was 
the most frequently reported solicited general symptom (incidence ranged from 32.8% 
[DPARAIPARA group] to 60.0% [NIBU-IIBU group]). Grade 3 solicited general symptoms were 
reported for a maximum of 5.1% of subjects (irritability in the IIBU-DIBU and DIBU-NIBU groups). 
The incidence of solicited general symptoms with causal relationship to vaccination as assessed by 
the investigator ranged from 6.8% (loss of appetite in the IIBU-NIBU group) to 45.0% (irritability in 
the NIBU-IIBU group). 
•  Unsolicited symptoms: During the 31-day post-booster vaccination period, at least one 
unsolicited symptom was reported for a maximum of 10.0% of subjects (IIBU-DIBU group). Two 
grade 3 unsolicited symptoms were reported: one for a subject (1.6%) in the IIBU-IIBU group and 
another for a subject (1.5%) in the IPARA-NPARA group. One unsolicited symptom with causal 
relationship to vaccination, which was of grade 3 intensity, was reported for a subject (1.6%) in the 
IIBU-IIBU group. 
•  Serious adverse events: (Amended: 07 November 2014) 
o  One fatal SAE (craniocerebral injury) was reported for a subject from the Total enrolled 
cohort (DPARA group; centre excluded from TVC) 132 days after the third dose and was 
considered by the investigator as not related to vaccination.  
o  Among the subjects included in the TVC, at least one non-fatal SAE was reported for ten 
subjects during the primary epoch, for three subjects during the booster epoch and for two 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 34/39 
 
  
  
subjects during the period between both epochs. All SAEs recovered/resolved and were 
assessed by the investigator as not related to vaccination. 
o  For subjects eliminated from the TVC from one centre, in addition to the fatal SAE, at least 
one non-fatal SAE was reported for three subjects during the period starting with the 
administration of study vaccine dose 1 up to the end of booster epoch. All SAEs 
recovered/resolved and were assessed by the investigator as not related to vaccination.  
•  Withdrawals due to adverse events/serious adverse events: Two subjects from the TVC 
were withdrawn due to an SAE during the study period. These events were considered as 
recovered/resolved and were assessed by the investigator as not related to vaccination. 
4.3.2.  Discussion 
The primary safety outcome in this study was fever. There were no beneficial effects of immediate 
administration of ibuprofen compared to no ibuprofen in terms of fever reduction, and a trend towards fever 
reduction in delayed ibuprofen administration. There were no new safety signals, and the overall safety 
profile was in agreement with previous studies.  
4.4.  Changes to the Product Information 
As a result of this variation section 4.4 of the SmPC is being updated. 
Prophylactic administration of antipyretics before or immediately after vaccine administration can reduce 
the incidence and intensity of post-vaccination febrile reactions. However, Clinical data generated  with 
paracetamol and ibuprofen suggest that the prophylactic use of paracetamol might reduce the immune 
response to Synflorix. The clinical relevance of this observation, as well as the impact of antipyretics other 
than paracetamol on the immune response to Synflorix remains unknown. 
The use of prophylactic antipyretic medicinal products is recommended: 
- for all children receiving Synflorix simultaneously with vaccines containing whole cell pertussis because of 
higher rate of febrile reactions (see section 4.8). 
- for children with seizure disorders or with a prior history of febrile seizures. 
Antipyretic treatment should be initiated according to local treatment guidelines. 
Assessor’s comment: The proposed wording is not considered adequate, as it should also be mentioned that 
prophylactic ibuprofen had a limited capacity to reduce the fever rates. Otherwise caregivers and parents 
might preferentially use ibuprofen as prophylactic antipyretic, which may not be appropriate. 
Proposed  wording:  Prophylactic  administration  of  antipyretics  before  or  immediately  after  vaccine 
administration  can  reduce  the  incidence  and  intensity  of  post-vaccination  febrile  reactions.  However, 
Clinical  data  generated  with  paracetamol  and  ibuprofen  suggest  that  the  prophylactic  use  of 
paracetamol might reduce the  fever  rate,  while  ibuprofen  had  a  limited  capacity  to  reduce  fever 
rates.  The  same  study  suggests  that  paracetamol  might  reduce  the  immune  response  to  Synflorix. 
However, the clinical relevance of this observation is not known. 
Changes to the Package Leaflet: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 35/39 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Your doctor may ask you to give your child an antipyretic (such as paracetamol) or other medicines that 
lower fever before or immediately after Synflorix is given. This will can help to lower some of the side effects 
(febrile reactions) of Synflorix. However if your child has received paracetamol before or immediately 
after Synflorix is given, their protection immune response (antibodies) against pneumococcal 
diseases may not be as good (it is not known whether such an impact would be observed when medicines 
that lower fever, other than paracetamol, are given). 
Assessor’s comment: The proposed new wording is not fully endorsed, and an alternative suggestion is given 
below. The currently approved text in this section of the leaflet is given in plain language easily 
understandable to the general public in accordance with current guidance in the annotated QRD template 
and the Readability Guideline. New proposed words such as “antipyretic” and “immune response” are not 
considered as plain language. The following changes in the proposal are therefore suggested (new text 
in underlined bold italics and deleted text in double striketrough).  
Proposed wording: Your doctor may ask you to give your child a medicine that lowers fever an antipyretic 
(such as paracetamol) or other medicines that lower fever before or immediately after Synflorix is given. 
This will can help to lower some of the side effects (febrile reactions) of Synflorix. However if your child has 
received paracetamol before or immediately after Synflorix is given, their 
protection protection immune response (antibodies) against pneumococcal diseases may not be as good (it 
is not known whether such an impact would be observed when medicines that lower fever, other than 
paracetamol, are given). 
5.  Request for supplementary information 
5.1.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
Question 1.  
An English summary of the Romanian inspection report should be provided before a conclusion regarding 
this variation can be drawn. 
Question 2.  
A revised SmPC and package leaflet should be provided (suggestion given above) 
6.  Assessment of the responses to the request for 
supplementary information 
6.1.  Other concerns 
Question 1. An English summary of the Romanian inspection report should be provided before a conclusion 
regarding this variation can be drawn. 
MAH response: 
A GCP inspection was held by the National Drug Agency and Medical Devices Agency -Pharmaceutical 
Inspection Department (NDAMD) of clinical study 112921 (10PN-PD-DIT-050). The inspection encompasses 
two entities: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 36/39 
 
  
  
 
 
•  SS/001/14: GCP inspection at the GlaxoSmithKline Local Operating Company (LOC) in 
Romania: 7-8 October 2014. 
•  SI/001/14: GCP inspection at one investigational site: 9-10 October 2014. 
Following the request from CHMP, GSK Biologicals s.a. provides an English summary of the findings 
listed in the above inspection reports and a summary of the responses. Initial responses to both the 
SS/001/14 and SI/001/14 inspections were provided in December 2014 by GSK Biologicals s.a., the GSK 
LOC in Romania and the investigational site. On January 16th 2015, NDAMD requested updated 
responses for some findings, and the point of view of the GSK LOC in Romania for the findings listed in 
the SI/001/14 inspection report. These responses were submitted on 16 February 2015. At this point in 
time the GSK LOC in Romania has not received any further feedback from NDAMD. 
With respect to the GCP inspection at the investigational site (SI/001/14), it must be noted that all data 
from subjects enrolled at this centre were excluded from analyses. In addition, other subjects who were 
found non-eligible during the inspection of the GSK LOC in Romania (SS/001/14) were eliminated from 
the According to Protocol analysis. This has been described in the clinical study report (Report 
Amendment 1 dated 7 November 2014) submitted as part of this variation application.  
Assessment re English summary of the Romanian inspection report SS/001/14: The MAH has 
concluded that the above findings do not influence the quality of the study. This is in principle agreed. The 
serological assay is stated to be fully validated, and considering that the same assay has been used for the 
clinical development program this is expected to be satisfactory. The traceability of investigational product 
should not be of major concern as the study was open label. The other points of concern do not seem to 
influence the final results of the study. Issue resolved.  
Assessment re English summary of Romanian inspection report SI/001/14: Considering that the 
inspected site was excluded from the study, and the subjects were excluded from the final analysis. Issue 
resolved.  
Question 2. A revised SmPC and package leaflet should be provided (suggestion given above) 
Changes to the Product Information - section 4.4 
Assessor’s comment: The proposed wording is not considered adequate, as it should also be 
mentioned that prophylactic ibuprofen had a limited capacity to reduce the fever rates. 
Otherwise caregivers and parents might preferentially use ibuprofen as prophylactic 
antipyretic, which may not be appropriate. 
Initial wording proposed by the Company: 
“Prophylactic administration of antipyretics before or immediately after vaccine administration can reduce 
the incidence and intensity of post-vaccination febrile reactions. However, Clinical data generated with 
paracetamol and ibuprofen suggest that the prophylactic use of paracetamol might reduce the immune 
response to Synflorix. The clinical relevance of this observation, as well as the impact of antipyretics other 
than paracetamol on the immune response to Synflorix remains unknown.” 
Assessor proposed wording: 
“Prophylactic administration of antipyretics before or immediately after vaccine administration can reduce 
the incidence and intensity of post-vaccination febrile reactions. However, Clinical data generated with 
paracetamol and ibuprofen suggest that the prophylactic use of paracetamol might reduce the fever 
rate, while ibuprofen had a limited capacity to reduce fever rates. The same study suggests that 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 37/39 
 
  
  
 
 
paracetamol might reduce the immune response to Synflorix. However, the clinical relevance of this 
observation is not known.” 
MAH’s response: 
The MAH agrees to mention in the proposed wording that the prophylactic use of ibuprofen showed a limited 
effect in reducing fever rates. 
The MAH would like to make some amendments to the wording proposed by the Assessor as shown in track 
changes below. 
“Prophylactic administration of antipyretics before or immediately after vaccine administration can reduce 
the incidence and intensity of post-vaccination febrile reactions. Clinical data generated with paracetamol 
and ibuprofen suggest that the prophylactic use of paracetamol might reduce the fever rate, while 
prophylactic use of ibuprofen had showed a limited capacity effect to in reducinge fever rates. 
The same study clinical data suggests that paracetamol might reduce the immune response to Synflorix. 
However, the clinical relevance of this observation is not known.” 
The MAH prefers the wording “limited effect” than “limited capacity” of ibuprofen to reduce fever rate as the 
sentence refers to the clinical data obtained and not to a general capacity of ibuprofen. With the addition in 
the sentence of ‘prophylactic use’, the Company would like to reiterate that this effect was observed when 
used prophylactically, without referring to any other use of ibuprofen. 
The MAH would like to highlight that the effect of prophylactic use of paracetamol in reducing the immune 
response to Synflorix was not only observed in study 10PN-PD-DIT-050 but also, as discussed in the Clinical 
Overview, in previous studies 10PN-PD-DIT-010/014. For this reason, the Company proposes to change ‘The 
same clinical study suggests that paracetamol might reduce the immune response to Synflorix.” into “The 
clinical data suggest that paracetamol might reduce the immune response to Synflorix.” 
Assessment: The MAH suggested changes to the SPC are considered acceptable. Issue resolved.  
Changes to the Package Leaflet - section Other medicines and Synflorix 
Assessor’s comment: The proposed new wording is not fully endorsed, and an alternative suggestion is 
given below. The currently approved text in this section of the leaflet is given in plain language easily 
understandable to the general public in accordance with current guidance in the annotated QRD template 
and the Readability Guideline. New proposed words such as “antipyretic” and “immune response” are not 
considered as plain language. The following changes in the proposal are therefore suggested (new text in 
underlined bold italics and deleted text in double striketrough). 
Assessor proposed wording: 
Your doctor may ask you to give your child a medicine that lowers fever an antipyretic (such as 
paracetamol) or other medicines that lower fever before or immediately after Synflorix is given. This will can 
help to lower some of the side effects (febrile reactions) of Synflorix. However if your child has received 
paracetamol before or immediately after Synflorix is given, their protection immune response 
(antibodies) against pneumococcal diseases may not be as good (it is not known whether such an impact 
would be observed when medicines that lower fever, other than paracetamol, are given). 
MAH’s response: 
The Company agrees to change the word “an antipyretic” into “a medicine that lowers fever” but suggest to 
keep the word “immune response” at the end of the paragraph. 
The Company notes that in the current PIL section ‘How Synflorix works’, an explanation on the notion of 
‘antibodies’ and ‘immune system’ is already provided (“Synflorix helps your body to make its own antibodies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 38/39 
 
  
  
The antibodies form a part of the immune system that will protect your child against these diseases”). The 
Company also considers that the word “protection” could imply an effect on the efficacy of the vaccine while, 
as noted in section 4.4 of the SmPC, the clinical relevance of this finding is not known. 
The revised wording proposed by the Company reads: 
“Your doctor may ask you to give your child a medicine that lowers fever (such as paracetamol) before or 
immediately after Synflorix is given. This can help to lower some of the side effects (febrile reactions) of 
Synflorix. However if your child has received paracetamol before or immediately after Synflorix is given, 
their immune response (antibodies) against pneumococcal diseases may not be as good.” 
Assessment:  
The further change to the PL suggested by the MAH is considered acceptable.  
Furthermore, a comment from MS suggested that the two last sentences should be revised as follows, to 
better reflect that the clinical implication of reduced antibody levels after use of paracetamol is not known: 
“However if your child has received paracetamol before or immediately after Synflorix is 
given, the obtained levels of antibodies may be slightly reduced their immune response (antibodies) 
against pneumococcal diseases may not be as good.. However, whether the reduction in antibody 
levels has an impact on the protection against pneumococcal disease is not known. 
The Rapporteur acknowledges the MS comment and recommends revision of package leaflet text in 
accordance with this comment but with a minor rewording in the last sentence to use a direct language:  
“It is not known However, whether the reduction in antibody levels has an impact on the protection 
against pneumococcal disease is not known.  
Issue resolved. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/253767/2015 
Page 39/39 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
