24 October 2013 
EMA/73592/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Synflorix  
International non-proprietary name: PNEUMOCOCCAL POLYSACCHARIDE 
CONJUGATE VACCINE (ADSORBED) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000973/II/0052 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II  variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 14 September 2012 an application for a variation 
including an extension of indication. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
Common name: 
Presentations: 
Synflorix 
PNEUMOCOCCAL POLYSACCHARIDE 
See Annex A 
CONJUGATE VACCINE (ADSORBED) 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
C.1.6 a) 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
II 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one 
The MAH applied for a an extension of the indication for the prevention of pneumonia caused by 
Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and children from 6 weeks up to 5 years of age. Consequently, 
the MAH proposed the update of sections 4.1, 4.4 and 5.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
The variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
[P/0162/2012] on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP [P/0162/2012] was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Kristina Dunder  
Co-Rapporteur: Pieter Neels 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
14 September 2012 
19 October 2012 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
12 December 2012 
Co-Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
16 December 2012 
Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated on: 
11 January 2013 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 2/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Request for supplementary information and extension of timetable 
adopted by the CHMP on: 
17 January 2013 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
23 May 2013 
Joint Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
11 June 2013 
20 June 2013 
Further Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
25 June 2013 
Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report following CHMP 
discussion circulated on: 
27 June 2013 
2nd Request for supplementary information and extension of 
timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Joint Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
27 June 2013 
22 August 2013 
18 October 2013 
24 October 2013 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Synflorix is a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, containing 10 serotypes, 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 
19F and 23F. It was first approved in the EU in March 2009. The current variation aims to extend the 
indication to also include prevention of pneumonia. To support the extension of indication an interim 
report on efficacy from the Clinical Otitis Media and Pneumonia Study (COMPAS) was submitted. 
COMPAS is a Phase III, double blind (using observer blind methodologies), randomised and controlled 
study. The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate the efficacy of a three dose primary 
course of Haemophilus influenzae protein D conjugate vaccine, Synflorix in infants (followed by a 
booster dose in the second year of life) against first episode of “likely bacterial” community-acquired 
pneumonia (B-CAP). Planned interim analysis of the primary objective for B-CAP and analyses of other 
important CAP efficacy objectives, as well as the final analyses for immunogenicity, have been 
performed.  
During the variation application procedure, the MAH submitted to CHMP additional CAP efficacy data as 
well as safety data from the COMPAS end-of-study analysis  
Interaction with Regulatory Authorities 
The MAH has conducted three formal European Regulatory Agency consultations to discuss major 
amendments to the COMPAS protocol and to propose a new timing for the follow-up measure 
(FUM008) with the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP).  
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 3/34 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Amendment 5: The MAH met with representatives from the MPA, Sweden (Rapporteur), 
FAGG-AFMPS, Belgium (Co-Rapporteur) and the EMA (Project Leader) on 26 November, 2009. The 
discussion focussed on the Company’s proposed changes to the co-primary endpoints of the study. 
In protocol amendment 4, two analyses of the study had been planned as follows: 
• 
• 
An interim analysis when 628 episodes of B-CAP and 628 episodes of C-AOM became available. 
A final analysis when 1,200 episodes of B-CAP and 1,200 episodes of C-AOM became available and 
when all subjects had completed their 22 months of follow-up (24-27 months of age). 
The MAH proposed to amend the protocol to dissociate the co-primary endpoints by demoting C-AOM 
from a co-primary endpoint to a first secondary endpoint. Hence, the C-AOM endpoint would not be 
analysed at the time of the interim analysis. Vaccine efficacy against B-CAP remained as the only 
primary objective, but still with a planned interim analysis. The MAH proposed to perform the interim 
analysis when at least 535 cases of B-CAP had become available. As there was no longer any need to 
adjust the alpha level to account for two primary endpoints, the total number of B-CAP cases required 
to demonstrate vaccine efficacy at final analysis was revised to 1,045 first B-CAP cases, provided each 
subject would be at least 24 months old. All other endpoints and analyses were unchanged. Both the 
Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur agreed with these proposed changes to the protocol. 
Protocol Amendment 6: The MAH discussed its proposal for a further protocol amendment (amendment 
6) with representatives from the MPA, Sweden; FAGG-AFMPS, Belgium; the PDCO representative from 
Sweden and the EMA Paediatric Coordinator on the 30 July 2010. 
In the initial CXR reading process, WHO case definitions had been used to categorise pneumonia cases. 
However, WHO training material for CXR interpretation was not available at study start. Each CXR was 
evaluated by two primary readers, and if a third reader agreed with one of the previous readers this 
was the final diagnosis. If not the CXR entered a full second round. If discrepancy persisted the CXR 
was considered as ‘no pneumonia’. This process resulted in an unexpected low level of concordance 
(~20%) between the three readers. As requested by the Independent Data Monitoring Committee 
(IDMC), the MAH proposed to improve the CXR reading process by establishing an Expert Panel of two 
readers to resolve by consensus discordant readings from the two primary readers. Two out of three 
readers were replaced and all readers were regularly re-trained according to available WHO training 
materials. Hence, the initial process was stopped, all previous results were disregarded, and all CXRs 
were re-evaluated with the new process. The availability of the WHO training materials led to a much 
greater concordance (~60%) amongst primary readers. As a consequence of the MAH’s improvement 
to the CXR reading process, fewer confirmed B-CAP cases were observed, i.e., by December 2008 with 
the revised process, 221 B-CAP cases had been identified compared to 400 B-CAP cases identified with 
the previous methodology. Following the teleconference, final agreement was reached via e-mail 
exchange. The final wording in protocol amendment 6 is as follows: 
“The study end will depend on the outcome of the planned B-CAP interim analysis. If the outcome on 
the primary endpoint is conclusive, the study end (completion of contact 10 for each subject) will be 
organized as soon as possible. If the outcome is not conclusive, the study end will be organized 
approximately between September and December 2011.” As requested by PDCO during the PIP 
procedure, another change to the protocol was to include clarification of the pathogen-specific AOM 
endpoint. 
In 2009, the MAH committed to report vaccine efficacy against pneumonia, AOM and IPD, as well as 
the impact of Synflorix on NPC from COMPAS, by March 2012 (Post-authorisation measure 008 [MEA 
008]). During a teleconference on 28 February 2012, the MAH informed the Rapporteurs, the EMA 
Project Leader and the EMA Paediatric Coordinator of a delay in COMPAS end-of-study analysis and 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 4/34 
 
 
 
proposed to submit the pneumonia efficacy results from the interim analysis by September 2012. The 
MAH acknowledged that issues have been identified (e.g. ICF [Informed Consent Form] issues with 
minor parents in Panama), which have impacted the conduct of the study but clarified that the 
corrective actions undertaken, which are in accordance with EMA guidelines, support the validity of the 
study data. Subsequent to re-monitoring activities, the COMPAS end-of-study analysis was agreed to 
be submitted in June 2013. 
2.2.  Clinical efficacy 
2.2.1.  Main study 
An interim study report was submitted for study 10PN-PD-DIT-028: Clinical Otitis Media and 
Pneumonia Study (COMPAS): a phase III, double-blind, randomized, controlled, multicentre study to 
demonstrate the efficacy of the 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine against Community 
Acquired Pneumonia (CAP) and Acute Otitis Media (AOM).  
The interim report presents the efficacy data related to the primary objective and some of the 
secondary objectives. In addition the final immunogenicity data are presented.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Study initiation date: 28 June 2007  
Data lock point for Primary objective: 31 August 2010 
Database freeze for Immunogenicity objectives: 30 July 2012 
Date of interim report: 20 August 2012 
Methods 
Study design: 
Multicentre study conducted in Argentina (42 centres), Panama (16 centres) and Colombia (3 centres), 
randomized, double blind (using observer-blind methodology), controlled trial with two parallel groups:  
• 
• 
10Pn group: approximately 12,000 subjects who received 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine 
Control group: approximately 12,000 subjects who received a non-pneumococcal control vaccine 
regimen 
Three subsets were defined: 
• 
• 
• 
“Immuno and reacto” subset: first 1,000 subjects enrolled in defined centres in Panama and 
Argentina (500 subjects per country), for assessment of immunogenicity and reactogenicity  
“Carriage” subset: next 2000 subjects enrolled in defined centres in Panama, for assessment of 
nasopharyngeal carriage 
“Additional immune” subset: 3,500 subjects enrolled in Panama (not participating in the “Immuno 
and reacto” subset), for assessment of immunogenicity 
Blood sampling: 
• 
Four blood samples were collected from subjects in the “Immuno and reacto” subset for 
assessment of immunogenicity: one month post dose III, prior to booster vaccination, one month 
post-booster vaccination and at the last scheduled visit. Two blood samples were collected from 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 5/34 
 
 
 
subjects in the “Additional immune” subset for exploratory laboratory assays to explore the 
correlation between protection against AOM caused by (non-typeable) Haemophilus influenzae and 
the serological response to protein D: prior to booster vaccination and one month post booster 
vaccination 
Nasopharyngeal swabs: 
• 
Six samples were collected from subjects in the “Carriage” subset: at 7 months of age, at 12-15 
months of age, at the booster vaccination visit (15-18 months of age), approximately one month 
and 3 months after the booster dose, and at 24-27 months of age. 
Objectives: 
This interim report addresses the primary objective and some of the secondary objectives related to 
the efficacy of the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine against first episodes of various definitions of community 
acquired pneumonia (CAP). In addition, final evaluation of the secondary objectives related to 
immunogenicity was performed. All other secondary objectives will be addressed in the end-of-study 
report.  
Primary: 
To demonstrate the efficacy of a 3-dose primary course followed by a booster dose in the second year 
of life with the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine against likely bacterial CAP cases (B-CAP) in the entire study 
cohort. Likely bacterial CAP is defined as radiologically confirmed CAP cases with either alveolar 
consolidation/pleural effusion on the chest X-ray (CXR), or with non-alveolar infiltrates but with CRP ≥
40 mg/L. 
Criteria for efficacy: 
Efficacy against likely bacterial CAP will be demonstrated if the one-sided p-value calculated for the 
null hypothesis H0= [B-CAP vaccine efficacy (VE) ≤ 0%] is lower than 1.75%. 
Secondary: 
To assess the efficacy of the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine against CAP with alveolar consolidation or pleural 
effusion on chest X-ray (C-CAP) 
• 
• 
• 
To document the impact of the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine against suspected CAP cases 
To document the impact of the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine against CAP cases with any abnormal CXR 
To document the impact of the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine against CAP cases with either alveolar 
consolidation/pleural effusion on the chest X-ray or with non-alveolar infiltrates with CRP ≥80 
mg/L 
• 
To document the impact of the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine against CAP cases with either alveolar 
consolidation/pleural effusion on the chest X-ray or with non-alveolar infiltrates with CRP ≥120 
mg/L 
• 
To assess the immune response to the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine, one month after dose III, before, 
one month and approximately 8 months after the booster dose in terms of serotype specific ELISA 
antibody concentrations, serotype specific opsonophagocytic activity and anti-PD antibody 
responses (in a subset of 500 children in Argentina and Panama, up to a total of 1,000) 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 6/34 
 
 
 
Diagnosis and criteria for inclusion: 
•  Male or female between, and including, 6 and 16 weeks of age (between 42 and 118 days) at the 
time of the first vaccination. Preterm infants (born after a gestation period < 37 weeks) could be 
included in the study starting from 8 weeks of chronological age at the time of first vaccination 
and up to 16 weeks of chronological age (between 56 and 118 days). 
• 
In each site, subjects living in the area covered by the surveillance system for CAP, ID and AOM.  
•  Written informed consent obtained from the parent or guardian of the subject. 
• 
Free of any known or suspected health problems (as established by medical history and clinical 
examination before entering into the study), that would contraindicate the initiation of routine 
immunizations outside a clinical trial context. 
• 
Subjects for whom the investigator believed that their parents/guardians could and would comply 
with the requirements of the protocol (e.g., completion of the diary cards, return for follow-up 
visits). 
• 
For Colombia: infants with birth weight ≥ 2,500g. 
Study vaccine, dose, mode of administration 
All vaccines were administrated intramuscularly in the right (10Pn-PD-DiT and HBV or HAV vaccines) or 
the left (DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib or DTPa-IPV/Hib vaccines) thigh (primary doses) or deltoid (booster dose). 
In addition to the study vaccines the following vaccines were concomitantly administered: Havrix 
vaccine, Varilrix vaccine, NeisVac C and Rotarix vaccine. 
Criteria for evaluation: 
For the interim report the primary endpoint (i.e. efficacy to prevent the first episode of B-CAP) was to 
be evaluated when at least 535 first B-CAP episodes were reported from 2 weeks after dose III for 
subjects in the ATP cohort for efficacy. Furthermore some of the secondary endpoints related to CAP 
were to be partially evaluated such as first episode of CAP only (multiple episodes will be analysed at 
the time of the final report). In addition, the final analysis of the secondary endpoints related to 
immunogenicity was performed.  
Efficacy: 
•  Occurrence of likely bacterial CAP cases (B-CAP) defined as radiologically confirmed CAP cases 
with either alveolar consolidation/pleural effusion on the chest X-ray or with non-alveolar 
infiltrates but with CRP ≥40 mg/L. 
•  Occurrence of CAP cases with alveolar consolidation or pleural effusion on the Chest X-ray (CCAP) 
•  Occurrence of suspected CAP cases 
•  Occurrence of CAP cases with any abnormal CXR 
•  Occurrence of CAP cases with either alveolar consolidation/pleural effusion on the chest X-ray or 
with non-alveolar infiltrates but with CRP ≥80 mg/L 
•  Occurrence of CAP cases with either alveolar consolidation/pleural effusion on the chest X-ray or 
with non-alveolar infiltrates but with CRP ≥120 mg/L 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 7/34 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Immunogenicity (in the “Immuno and reacto” subset of 1,000 subjects (500 subjects respectively 
in Argentina and Panama)): 
Antibody concentrations against pneumococcal serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 
19F and 23F (22F-inhibition ELISA), one month post dose III , pre-booster, one month post-
booster and at Visit 9 
•  Opsonophagocytic activity (OPA) against pneumococcal serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 
18C, 19A, 19F and 23F, one month post dose III, pre-booster, one month post-booster and at 
Visit 9 
• 
Antibody concentrations to protein D (ELISA), one month post dose III, pre-booster, one month 
post-booster and at Visit 9. 
Statistical methods: 
Sample size calculation:  
If the true VE is 25%, the study has 87.6% power to be conclusive at the interim analysis. If the 
interim is not conclusive, one can consider that the total number of evaluable B-CAP cases at the final 
analysis will be between 600 and 700. 
Therefore if the true VE is 20%, considering a number of 600 cases at final analysis, and the interim 
analysis was not to be conclusive despite a 66% power at the interim, there was to be at least 9.7% 
chance to conclude at the final analysis with a global power of at least 75.7%. 
Statistical analyses 
Statistical analyses for this interim report were performed, as described in the protocol, by an 
independent statistician as the study was still ongoing and blinded at the time of the analyses.  
Demography-descriptive analysis: 
• 
Demographic characteristics (age, gender, race) of the ATP cohort for efficacy for CAP and of the 
Total vaccinated cohort were tabulated per group. 
Efficacy (ATP cohort for efficacy): 
• 
For all first episodes of a defined CAP, the vaccine efficacy (VE) and its 95% confidence interval 
(CI) was estimated as 1 minus the hazard ratio obtained from a Cox regression model including 
the treatment group as only regressor. 
• 
• 
The number of first episodes, follow-up years, associated rate and cumulative hazard curve were 
presented by group, for each considered endpoint. 
In order to check the statistical significance of the primary endpoint at the time of this interim 
analysis, one-sided p-value for the Wald-Test obtained from the Cox proportional hazard model 
was calculated for B-CAP reported 2 weeks after dose III in the ATP cohort for efficacy. The 
success of the primary objective will be established if the one-sided nominal p-value calculated for 
the null hypothesis H0=[B-CAP VE ≤0%] is lower than 1.75%. 
Immunogenicity (ATP cohort for “Immuno and reacto” subset): 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 8/34 
 
 
 
•  Geometric mean antibody concentrations/titres (GMCs/GMTs) with 95% CIs were tabulated for 
each group and for each appropriate antigen/serotype at each applicable blood sampling 
timepoint. 
• 
• 
Seropositivity rates were calculated with 95% CIs for each group and for each antigen/serotype at 
each applicable blood sampling time point. 
Distribution of antibody concentrations/titres was displayed using tables and/or reverse 
cumulative distribution curves for each appropriate antigen/serotype at each applicable blood 
sampling time point  
• 
For each pneumococcal serotype, at each time point that a blood-sample result was available, 
geometric mean of ratios of Opsonophagocytic (OPA) titres/ELISA concentrations were tabulated 
with 95% CIs. 
•  Geometric mean ratios of ELISA concentrations or OPA titres between various blood sample time 
points were calculated with 95% CIs. 
Results 
GCP Issues 
A number of GCP issues have been raised during the COMPAS trial. A summary of the issues is 
described below:  
During the early phase of study conduct, issues related to the quality of the monitoring services (e.g. 
source data verification, implementation/follow-up of identified actions) provided by the CRO (Contract 
Research Organisation) were encountered. As no improvement in the services was observed after 
agreement of corrective actions the collaboration with the implicated CRO was terminated in December 
2009 and another CRO was contracted to perform the study monitoring activities. The CRO performed 
a quality check in Argentina on the monitoring of 20% of the reported CAP cases.  
From the end of 2007 until mid-2008 the study was increasingly discussed in the local media and on 
the internet. This media coverage focused on two issues: the reporting of deaths of some children 
enrolled in the study, and that the recruitment process at one study centre was allegedly not 
conducted appropriately. This media coverage ultimately led to further investigations by the local 
regulatory authorities in Argentina and Colombia. While the local regulatory authorities concluded that 
the study could continue as planned, the media coverage adversely impacted the rate of enrolment of 
new subjects into the trial, as well as the willingness of many parents of enrolled children to let their 
children continue to participate in the study. To enhance enrolment the recruitment period was 
extended through end of 2008. 
Local regulatory authorities in Argentina and Colombia performed inspections in 2007 and 2008, 
partially triggered by the above described media coverage of the study. In Argentina concerns were 
raised during the inspections regarding the following: 
• 
The informed consent process (e.g. lack of documentation of the relationship between parents and 
LAR (legally authorized representative) of subject and ICFs signed after randomization).  
• 
The compliance with the inclusion/exclusion/elimination criteria  
•  Monitoring/surveillance by the Sponsor (e.g. source data verification and loss of source data). 
• 
The 30 minutes safety follow-up after vaccination and follow-up of AEs/SAEs (e.g. reporting of AEs 
and SAEs). 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 9/34 
 
 
 
The concerns were investigated by the MAH and additional information was provided to the authorities. 
Additionally, appropriate corrective actions were put in place and communicated to the authorities who 
were in agreement that the study should be allowed to continue. Nevertheless, the authorities issued 
fines to the MAH and the study investigators in 2009. The MAH disagreed with the allegations and 
initiated appeals that lasted over a period of several years. However in 2012, whilst continuing to 
disagree with the assessment of the fines, the MAH decided to conclude the judicial processes by 
withdrawing its appeals so that it could focus its attention on completing the study. In Colombia, the 
regulatory inspections raised concerns about the progress of the implementation of the regulation for 
Independent Ethics Committees (IECs) from INVIMA of July 2008 at two IECs that were overseeing the 
study. Therefore it was agreed with INVIMA to also submit the study to an IEC that already complied 
with the INVIMA regulation. This latter IEC also approved the study. 
In June 2008, the IDMC (Independent Data Monitoring Committee) noted an imbalance in reporting of 
fatal adverse events in the study. At the request of the IDMC, the enrolment of the study was put on 
hold to allow the IDMC to further investigate this observation. All analyses requested by the IDMC 
were performed by an independent statistician to ensure the blinding of the study. The IDMC 
concluded that no safety concern could be identified for children enrolled in the COMPAS study 
compared to baseline mortality. The IDMC recommended therefore that enrolment could be restarted. 
The study was on hold from 23 June 2008 to 02 July 2008. 
In June 2009, after noting a high number of discrepancies in CXR diagnoses between the readers in 
the CXR panel, the IDMC recommended improving the robustness of the CXR review process. In 
agreement with the IDMC, the review process was enhanced, some of the CXR readers were replaced 
and regular trainings on WHO case definitions for pneumonia were provided. Following implementation 
of these changes (January 2010), all CXRs were re-assessed according to the new process and 
previous diagnoses were not considered for any analysis. 
During the data validation process for the interim analysis, errors were detected in the completion of 
several electronic case report form (eCRF) fields at a specific study centre. It was concluded that these 
findings had no impact on the data for the interim analysis but during the investigation an under-
reporting of non-serious adverse events (AEs) was detected. Corrective actions were taken. 
Additional quality checks and selective re-monitoring activities were implemented after completion of 
the interim analysis. After completion of the interim analysis and after the last study contact in 2011, a 
further quality check at the 2 centres with the highest recruitment in Panama revealed some under 
reporting of S-CAP cases, AOM cases, serious adverse events (SAEs) and AEs. Therefore, prior to the 
database freeze and unblinding for the final analysis, the MAH decided to perform a re-monitoring of all 
recorded data in all centres in Panama and to do a quality check of the data recorded respectively for 
at least 10% and 20% of the subjects in each of the centres in Argentina and Colombia, before closing 
of the database. These activities revealed issues with ICFs for some subjects of which 144 could not be 
resolved: 60 subjects for whom re-consent had not been obtained (i.e. 59 subjects minor 
parents/guardians who could not be re-contacted when becoming 18 years of age and 1 subject whose 
parents/guardian did not re-consent); 53 subjects for whom the age of the parents/guardians could 
not be definitively confirmed; and 31 subjects for whom the original signed ICFs were lost during the 
re-monitoring activities initiated after study end. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 10/34 
 
 
 
Participant flow 
Study population 
Protocol deviations 
The number of subjects enrolled into the study as well as the number of subjects eliminated from ATP 
analysis for efficacy with reasons for elimination is listed in Table 1. Subjects are listed in the table 
based on the lowest elimination code as more than one elimination code could be assigned to the same 
subject.  
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 11/34 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
from ATP analysis for efficacy, with reasons for exclusion 
Number of subjects enrolled into the study as well as the number of subjects excluded 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
NOGRP = No assigned group 
Note: Subjects may have more than one elimination code assigned 
n = number of subjects with the elimination code assigned excluding subjects who have been assigned a lower 
elimination code number 
s = number of subjects with the elimination code assigned 
% = percentage of subjects in the considered ATP cohort relative to the Total vaccinated cohort 
Demographic characteristics 
The demographic characteristics of the ATP cohort for efficacy for CAP and the Total vaccinated cohort 
at first vaccination and at booster vaccination are shown respectively in Table 2. The demographic 
profile of the 10Pn and Control groups was comparable with respect to mean age at first vaccination 
and at booster vaccination, gender and race. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 12/34 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Summary of demographic characteristics (ATP cohort for efficacy for CAP) 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
N = total number of subjects 
n/% = number / percentage of subjects in a given category 
Value = value of the considered parameter 
SD = standard deviation 
*Other: mainly mixed race 
Efficacy results  
Vaccine efficacy against likely bacterial CAP (B-CAP) 
The occurrence of first episodes of B-CAP cases and the VE for time to first episodes of B-CAP anytime 
from 2 weeks after the administration of dose III are presented in Table 3 and Table 4. 
Occurrence (number and percentage) of first episodes of likely bacterial CAP (B-CAP) 
Table 3 
anytime from 2 weeks after the administration of dose III - DLP = 31AUG2010 (ATP cohort for efficacy 
for CAP) 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
N = total number of subjects 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 13/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n/% = number/percentage of subjects reporting a first episode of likely bacterial CAP (B-CAP) cases from 2 weeks 
after the administration of dose III 
95% I = exact 95% confidence interval, LL = lower limit, UL = upper limit 
Note: Censoring variables were taken into account to compute the occurrence of cases 
Vaccine Efficacy (with p-value) for time to first occurrence of likely bacterial CAP (B-CAP) 
Table 4 
anytime from 2 weeks after the administration of dose III - DLP = 31AUG2010 (ATP cohort for efficacy 
for CAP) 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
N = number of subjects 
n = number of subjects reporting at least one event(s) = number of first event(s) 
T (year) = sum of follow-up period expressed in years censored at the first occurrence of event in each group 
VE (%) = Vaccine efficacy (Cox regression model) 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval derived from Cox regression model; LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit 
One-sided p-value from Cox regression model to test H0 = [VE≤ 0%] (Y = Time to Event) - significance level = 
1.75% 
Note: Censoring variables were taken into account to compute the occurrence of cases 
As the primary objective was met, the occurrence of first episodes of several kinds of CAP and the VE 
for time to first episodes of several kinds of CAP anytime from 2 weeks after the administration of dose 
III has been evaluated and is presented in Table 5. 
Table 5 
Vaccine Efficacy (with p-value) for time to first occurrence of several kinds of CAP anytime 
from 2 weeks after the administration of dose III - DLP = 31AUG2010 (ATP cohort for efficacy for CAP) 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
N = number of subjects 
n = number of subjects reporting at least one event(s) = number of first event(s) 
T (year) = sum of follow-up period expressed in years censored at the first occurrence of event in each group 
VE (%) = Vaccine efficacy (Cox regression model) 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval derived from Cox regression model; LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit 
One-sided p-value from Cox regression model to test H0 = [VE≤ 0%] 
Note: Censoring variables were taken into account to compute the occurrence of cases 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 14/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensitivity analysis 
Following the interim analysis performed in March 2011, further re-monitoring activities were 
performed as described above. These activities revealed issues with ICFs for some subjects being part 
of primary objective analyses.  
In order to further confirm the validity of the interim analysis, a descriptive sensitivity analysis on the 
primary objective has been performed as recommended in ICH E9 (Note for Guidance on Statisitical 
Principles for Clinical Trials) with reference to the further exploration of the sensitivity of conclusions 
and as also recommended in the EMA guidance of 2008 (Ethical Considerations For Clinical Trials On 
Medicinal Products Conducted With The Paediatric Population) in the case of submission of non GCP 
compliant data (“the quality of the data, the study results, and consequently the validity of the 
marketing authorisation application should be scrutinised. Sensitivity analysis should be performed 
within the GCP-compliant full data set and in some cases also in comparison with all GCP-non 
compliant data”). 
Therefore, for this sensitivity analysis, a total of 144 subjects were excluded for the reasons described 
above. The database used for this sensitivity analysis was the same as the one used for the initial 
interim analysis with the above identified subjects eliminated from the ATP cohort for efficacy for CAP.  
Note that the subjects identified above will also be eliminated from all end-of-study study analyses. 
The VE against the first episode of likely bacterial CAP reported in the updated ATP cohort for efficacy 
for sensitivity analysis, anytime from 2 weeks after the administration of dose III was 22.3% (95% CI 
[7.9 ; 34.4] versus 22.0% (95% CI [7.7 ; 34.2]) before exclusion of the above mentioned subjects. 
End of study results 
Subsequent to interim results reported above, the study activities for completion of the study were 
conducted and the end-of-study analysis was performed, including descriptive analyses of community 
acquired pneumonia (CAP). In these analyses, the mean efficacy follow-up from 2 weeks after the 
administration of dose 3 in the ATP cohort was 30 months (range from 0 to 44 months). The efficacy of 
Synflorix against first B-CAP episodes in COMPAS measured in the end-of-study analysis is consistent 
with the point estimate from the confirmatory analysis result from the event-driven (interim) analysis. 
Vaccine efficacy was also shown against other pneumonia endpoints of public health importance (S-
CAP, C-CAP and CXR-CAP) investigated as descriptive secondary objectives.  In these analyses, a 
stratification by age was performed to evaluate whether the VE against CAP endpoints varied by age in 
light of previous observations with other pneumococcal conjugate vaccines. Using the comparable 
standardized WHO endpoint the VE against first episodes of C-CAP in the ATP cohort in subjects <24 
months of age and ≥24 months of age was 25.4% (95%CI, 5.6; 41.1) and 15.0% (95%CI, -20.0; 
39.8), respectively. The VE against all episodes of C-CAP was in line with the VE against first episodes 
(24.0% and 12.5% respectively). The results of the TVC were consistent with those obtained for the 
ATP cohort.  
Since in the COMPAS study, the observation period extended beyond 2 years of age, a descriptive 
analysis, stratifying for each year of age, was performed in order to better understand what age 
stratification makes the most sense based on the efficacy data. For C-CAP, the standardized WHO 
endpoint, there is evidence of efficacy up to 36 months of age with point estimates of 15.1%, 31.8% 
and 20.7% vaccine efficacy for the children under 12 months of age, 12-24 months of age and 24 to 
36 months of age respectively (Table 6). A similar pattern is seen for B-CAP but with a lower point 
estimate at 24 to 36 months of age (vaccine efficacy of 5.9%) perhaps reflecting the increasing lack of 
specificity of this case definition in older children. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 15/34 
 
 
 
Table 6 
subdivided per age-groups anytime from 2 weeks after the administration of dose III (ATP cohort for 
vaccine efficacy analysis) – 10PN-PD-DIT-028 (COMPAS) 
Vaccine Efficacy (with p-value) for time to first occurrence of C-CAP and B-CAP 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
N = number of subjects 
n = number of subjects reporting at least one event 
T (year) = sum of follow-up expressed in years censored at the first occurrence of event 
VE (%) = Vaccine efficacy (Cox regression model) 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval derived from Cox regression model LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit  
Descriptive P-value from Cox regression model when at least 1 event - no adjustment for multiplicity  
Note: Censoring variables are taken into account to compute the occurrence of cases 
Based on this analysis and the observation that there still appeared to be vaccine efficacy against C-
CAP and B-CAP in the age cohort 24-36 months of age, the MAH has performed an additional analysis 
considering the age cohort of children up to 36 months of age and above 36 months of age; with 
vaccine efficacy of greater than 15% efficacy in the age stratified analysis for C-CAP up to 3 years of 
age and only decreasing after that for some of the endpoints, 36 months of age represents a logical 
break, rather than 24 months of age, as initially explored (Table 6). 
The results for this analysis for first episodes in the ATP cohort are presented in Table 7 (results for 
any episode and Total vaccinated cohort are presented in Annex Additional COMPAS analysis) and 
show that the vaccine efficacy in children less than 36 months of age was positive for all endpoints 
with notably statistically significant results (based on positive lower limit of the non-adjusted 95% CI 
around VE) for C-CAP (24.2% [95% CI, 7.4; 38.0]) and B-CAP (20.6% [95% CI, 6.5; 32.6]). 
Therefore, the results from COMPAS provide evidence that Synflorix protects children vaccinated in 
infancy against C-CAP and B-CAP up to the age of 36 months at least. 
Given the limited number of C-CAP and B-CAP cases in children ≥ 36 months of age and thus the large 
confidence intervals for the point estimates for this age cohort, it was difficult to interpret the 
calculated VE in this age group. As pneumococcal pneumonia may also be contributing to endpoints 
other than C-CAP in older children, it may be relevant, however, to consider that VE estimates in the 
≥36 months of age group for both suspected CAP and for CAP with an abnormal X-ray were 12-36% 
(depending on ATP or TVC cohort – first episodes), with statistical significance (based on positive lower 
limit of the non-adjusted 95% CI around VE) achieved for suspected CAP in that age group in all 
instances. Although a decrease of VE against C-CAP or B-CAP in children ≥36 months of age cannot be 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 16/34 
 
 
 
 
 
excluded, the above data indicates that efficacy against some pneumonia-related endpoints could be 
detected even in children ≥36 months of age. 
Table 7 
subdivided before or after 36 months of age anytime from 2 weeks after the administration of dose III 
(ATP cohort for vaccine efficacy analysis) – 10PN-PD-DIT-028 (COMPAS) 
Vaccine Efficacy (with p-value) for time to first occurrence of several kinds of CAP 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
N = number of subjects 
n = number of subjects reporting at least one event 
T (year) = sum of follow-up expressed in years censored at the first occurrence of event 
VE (%) = Vaccine efficacy (Cox regression model) 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval derived from Cox regression model LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit 
Descriptive P-value from Cox regression model - no adjustment for multiplicity 
Note: Censoring variables are taken into account to compute the occurrence of cases 
Immunogenicity results 
Immune response to the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine after primary vaccination 
The GMCs of antibodies against the vaccine pneumococcal serotypes (1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F 
and 23F), measured by 22F-inhibition ELISA, and the percentage of subjects with pneumococcal 
antibody concentrations ≥the cut-off of the assay of 0.05 µg/mL and ≥the threshold value of 0.20 
µg/mL, one month post-dose III overall are shown in Table 8.  
For each of the vaccine pneumococcal serotypes the percentage of subjects with antibody 
concentrations ≥0.20 µg/mL in the 10Pn group one month post-dose III was at least 93.1%. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 17/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seropositivity rates and GMCs for ANTI-1, ANTI-4, ANTI-5, ANTI-6B, ANTI-7F, ANTI-9V, 
Table 8 
ANTI-14, ANTI-18C, ANTI-19F and ANTI-23F antibodies one month after the 3-dose primary 
vaccination course (Primary ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
GMC = geometric mean antibody concentration 
N = number of subjects with available results 
n/% = number/percentage of subjects with concentration within the specified range 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval; LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit 
PIII(M5) = one month after dose III 
The GMTs of opsonophagocytic activity (OPA) against the vaccine pneumococcal serotypes (1, 4, 5, 6B, 
7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F) and the percentage of subjects with opsonophagocytic activity ≥ 8 one 
month post-dose III overall are shown in Table 9. One month post-dose III, for each of the vaccine 
pneumococcal serotypes, at least 90.8% of subjects in the 10Pn group had opsonophagocytic activity 
≥8. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 18/34 
 
 
 
 
Seropositivity rates and GMTs for OPSONO-1, OPSONO-4, OPSONO-5, OPSONO-6B, 
Table 9 
OPSONO-7F, OPSONO-9V, OPSONO-14, OPSONO-18C, OPSONO-19F and OPSONO-23F one month 
after the 3-dose primary vaccination course (Primary ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
GMT = geometric mean titre 
N = number of subjects with available results 
n/% = number/percentage of subjects with titre within the specified range 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval; LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit 
PIII(M5) = one month after dose III 
The GMCs of antibodies against the cross-reactive pneumococcal serotypes 6A and 19A, measured by 
22F-inhibition ELISA, and the percentage of subjects with pneumococcal antibody concentrations ≥the 
cut-off of the assay of 0.05 µg/mL and ≥the threshold value of 0.20 µg/mL, one month post-dose III 
overall are presented in Table 10. The OPA GMTs against the cross-reactive pneumococcal serotypes 
6A and 19A and the percentage of subjects with opsonophagocytic activity ≥8 one month post-dose III 
overall are shown in Table 11. 
Table 10  Seropositivity rates and GMCs for ANTI-6A and ANTI-19A antibodies one month after the 
3-dose primary vaccination course (Primary ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
GMC = geometric mean antibody concentration 
N = number of subjects with available results 
n/% = number/percentage of subjects with concentration within the specified range 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval; LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit 
PIII(M5) = one month after dose III 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 19/34 
 
 
 
 
Table 11  Seropositivity rates and GMTs for OPSONO-6A and OPSONO-19A one month after the 3-
dose primary vaccination course (Primary ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
10Pn = Primed with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and boosted with 10Pn-PD-DiT + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with HBV + DTPa-IPV/Hib and boosted with HAV + DTPa-IPV/Hib 
GMT = geometric mean titre 
N = number of subjects with available results 
n/% = number/percentage of subjects with titre within the specified range 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval; LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit 
PIII(M5) = one month after dose III 
Supporting immunogenicity data 
To date, the evaluation of vaccine efficacy in children receiving their primary vaccination course after 7 
months of age is limited thus complicating the evaluation of the ideal number of doses to be given as 
catch up vaccination schedule in children above 7 months of age. However, recent data from the FinIP 
clinical study provided the first evidence of efficacy of Synflorix to protect against pneumonia in 
children receiving catch-up vaccination at greater than 7 months of age, in European children. 
Effectiveness against hospital-diagnosed pneumonia was assessed as secondary objective. There were 
two catch-up cohorts in this study in which children received the number of doses as recommended in 
the European SmPC, i.e. children of 7-11 months of age received two primary doses of Synflorix with 
an interval of at least 4 weeks, followed by a booster dose with an interval of preferably 6 months 
since the previous vaccine dose [minimum 4 months] and children of 12-18 months of age received a 
2-dose vaccination with Synflorix with an interval of at least and preferably 6 months between doses. 
Data on pneumonia was collected using one main national register: Finnish Care Register for Social 
Welfare and Health Care (maintained by THL). 
In this study, VE against hospital-diagnosed pneumonia endpoints any time after the administration of 
the first vaccine dose was shown for both age cohorts with efficacy against hospital-diagnosed 
pneumonia of 33.2% (95% CI [3.0; 53.4]) and 22.4% (95% CI [-8.7: 44.8]) in children enrolled 
between 7 and 11 months of and between 12 and 18 months of age respectively (Catch-up vaccinated 
cohort). Considering that in FinIP study the observation period lasted 15-34 months from subject 
recruitment, some children at the end of observation were up to 45 months of age for the catch-up 
group of 7-11 months of age at recruitment and up to 53 months of age for catch up group of 12-18 
months of age at recruitment. Therefore, the observed vaccine effect following catch-up vaccination 
included children in their 4th and 5th year of life.  
The immunogenicity observed in the catch up cohort of children 3-4 years of age in Study 10PN-PD-
DIT-046 (conducted in Sweden and Slovakia) has been compared to the immunogenicity in a similar 
population, in which efficacy against pneumonia has been shown, i.e. the Study 10PN-PD-DIT-053, 
nested study of FinIP with catch up vaccination schedules in children of 7-11 months of age at first 
vaccination (2 primary doses with an interval of at least 4 weeks, followed by a booster dose with an 
interval of preferably 6 months since the previous vaccine dose [minimum 4 months]) and in children 
of 12-18 months of age at first vaccination (a 2-dose vaccination schedule with Synflorix with an 
interval of at least and preferably 6 months between doses). As shown in Table 12, the immune 
responses in terms of antibody GMCs 1 month after completion of the primary vaccination in the 
children of 3-4 years of age are comparable or higher to that in study 053 (1 month post booster 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 20/34 
 
 
 
 
vaccination in children of 7-11 months of age and 1 month post dose 2 in children of 12-18 months of 
age).  
Table 12 
Antibody responses in studies 053 and 046 (ATP cohort for analysis of immunogenicity) 
GMC = geometric mean antibody concentration 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval; LL = Lower Limit, UL = Upper Limit 
*ELISA GMCs one month post-booster vaccination. 
**ELISA GMCs one month after dose 2. 
***ELISA GMCs one month after dose 2. 
2.2.2.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
A number of GCP issues occurred, however the CHMP considered that appropriate corrective actions 
have been taken and therefore the quality of the study is acceptable.  
The interim results of the COMPAS study demonstrated an efficacy of 22% against likely bacterial 
pneumonia. These were statistically significant and of clinical relevance when considering the burden of 
disease. The protective efficacy against likely bacterial pneumonia was supported by the results for 
other definitions of CAP, and by the sensitivity analysis excluding subjects with remaining ICF issues. 
The argumentation provided related to the impact of the S-CAP cases retrieved during remonitoring 
was considered reasonable and the CHMP concurred with the MAH that the impact of these cases on 
the overall results was very limited. The data from the COMPAS trial conducted in children from the 
age of 6 weeks until 2 years were not considered sufficient to extrapolate pneumonia indication to the 
population of children up to 5 years. From the submitted documentation for this variation application, it 
was not clear on which basis the extension concerned older children. Pneumococcal pneumonia may 
represent a smaller percentage of pneumonia in children older than 2 years, which would affect the 
vaccine efficacy in this group. Therefore, the CHMP requested to discuss further evidence of efficacy 
against pneumonia up to the age of 5 years as well as the end of study results. The MAH provided the 
end of study results as well as additional analyses on stratification by age to evaluate whether the VE 
against CAP endpoints varied by age. From these analyses the CHMP noted that waning of protection 
against pneumonia cannot be excluded as the confidence intervals for efficacy were wide, which could 
be due to waning protection or replacement of other pathogens in older children. However, it can be 
concluded based on immunological data that vaccinating older children up to 5 years of age will result 
in similar or higher antibody responses compared to the youngest age groups, which makes protection 
against vaccine serotype pneumococcal pneumonia highly likely to be of at least similar magnitude in 
older and younger children. The current dose recommendations for older children are considered 
adequate also for the pneumonia indication, although efficacy against pneumonia has not been 
demonstrated in the older children. As a consequence, protective efficacy in different age groups is 
described in the SPC, section 5.1.  
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 21/34 
 
 
 
 
The results of other CAP definitions generally supported the results of the primary analysis. The 
sensitivity analysis was supportive of the conclusion on protection against pneumonia in the COMPAS 
trial. The immune responses as measured by ELISA were in line with previously presented results. The 
proportion of subjects with OPA titres ≥8 was also in agreement with previously presented results. The 
ELISA and OPA responses to serotypes 6A and 19A were as well in agreement with previously 
presented results.  
The MAH provided supporting evidence of the potential for Synflorix to prevent against pneumococcal 
pneumonia up to 5 years of age in children of 7-11 months of age that receive two primary doses of 
Synflorix, followed by a booster dose, and in children of 12-23 months of age that receive a 2-dose 
vaccination with Synflorix in these age groups. The MAH considered that the efficacy observed in the 
FinIP study can be extrapolated to the older age group of children, i.e. 2 to 5 years olds. Based on 
these results, with an immune response at least comparable between the children of 12-18 months of 
age that received 2 doses of Synflorix and the children of 3-4 years of age who also received 2 doses 
of Synflorix, it can be considered that the posology in children of 2-5 years of age is 2 doses, as for the 
IPD and AOM indications. 
The disease burden is substantial because of the high incidence of CAP among children and significant 
CAP-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. This disease burden is preventable with vaccination. 
Infection due to Streptococcus pneumoniae is considered one of the most common causes of CAP. The 
incidence of pneumonia in Latin America is generally estimated to be higher than in the EU. It is 
difficult to determine whether the results of the COMPAS could be extrapolated to a European setting, 
but in general vaccines have been shown to be more efficacious in developed countries compared to 
developing countries, while the opposite has rarely been demonstrated.  
Vaccination with Synflorix in Europe would reduce the disease burden because the vaccine serotypes 
target the paediatric population that has the greatest rates of pneumococcal disease. The presence of 
1, 5 and 7F serotypes in Synflorix would contribute substantially to this effect since these serotypes 
are among the most prevalent in European countries. The MAH argued that the serotype distribution 
for pneumonia in the COMPAS study does not significantly differ from a European setting, and that the 
results of the study are in agreement with other PCV trials in other regions. The factor most likely to 
cause a lower efficacy in Europe would be a different pneumonia serotype distribution, predominated 
by non-vaccine serotypes. This may be the case if widespread coverage is achieved as a result of 
vaccination, and serotype replacement occurs to a significant degree. The CHMP noted that the 
arguments provided favoured a similar protection in a European setting compared to Latin America, 
however, from the presented data be concluded that the data can be fully extrapolated to a European 
setting and this fact should be reflected in the SmPC. 
There are mainly two ways to estimate the contribution of Synflorix to pneumonia prevention in 
European and non-European countries, one is by measuring the impact of the vaccine following 
universal mass vaccination (UMV, in which the impact is best captured by comparing hospitalizations 
due to pneumonia before and after vaccination), and the second is by applying vaccine-attributable 
reduction (VAR) from studies like COMPAS as an endpoint to determine the potential public health 
impact of Synflorix on the reduction of the burden of pneumonia. So far the assessment of impact of 
Synflorix on pneumonia comprehends a short period after vaccine introduction and further assessment 
of the impact of the vaccine in European and non-European countries is currently underway, especially 
in those where the vaccine has been introduced in the national immunization program (e.g. Finland, 
Kenya, etc). The prospective analysis over the upcoming period of time post vaccine introduction will 
ensure the generation of additional data on the impact of Synflorix in these countries. 
The issue of strain coverage is important in the case of the 19A serotype given uncertainty as to the 
cross-protection afforded by the 19F serotype present in Synflorix. The emergence of this serotype in 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 22/34 
 
 
 
the CAP aetiology following nearly universal use of PCV vaccines in EU should not be neglected. Close 
epidemiological surveillance in order to continuously assess the benefit of vaccinating with Synflorix is 
needed. The replacement of vaccine serotype with non-vaccine types might reduce the vaccine efficacy 
against pneumococcal pneumonia. This potential reduction of the vaccine benefit should not be 
underestimated and deserves close monitoring. Since routine infant immunization with Synflorix has 
only recently been implemented in EU countries, for example in Finland, data on long-term 
effectiveness and serotype replacement will have to be awaited. At this stage, the magnitude of the 
benefit of vaccination can be considered to be higher than the risk of replacement. The MAH should 
monitor vaccine efficacy against pneumonia, AOM and IPD as well as the impact of the vaccine on 
nasopharyngeal carriage of S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae and other bacterial pathogens.  
Besides serotype replacement, emergence of antibiotic resistance in non-vaccine pneumococcal 
serotypes and any modification in the clinical manifestations of the disease should be specifically 
monitored. The CHMP endorsed these conclusions. 
The CHMP expressed some concerns on potential risks with Synflorix vaccination such as serotype 
replacement and microbiological shifts to other pathogenic agents in pneumonia and requested that 
surveillance studies including close monitoring of pneumonia and carriage with respect to serotype 
replacement and bacteriological shifts as well as patterns of antibiotic resistance in the EU need to be 
outlined in an updated RMP. The MAH provided an overview of multiple supporting studies, which 
report on pneumonia and carriage with respect to serotype replacement and bacteriological shifts as 
well as patterns of antibiotic resistance in countries which have introduced Synflorix into their national 
vaccination programs. The MAH did not address how such investigations relate to the RMP. However, 
the CHMP noted that an updated RMP was submitted as part of the renewal application. 
2.2.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The results of the COMPAS study that was conducted in Latin America demonstrated vaccine efficacy of 
22% against likely bacterial community acquired pneumonia. These results were considered 
statistically significant and of clinical relevance when taking into account the burden of disease. In 
addition, the observed protective efficacy against likely bacterial pneumonia was supported by the 
results for other definitions of CAP and by sensitivity analysis. Similar protection is expected in a 
European setting. The end-of-study results showed a vaccine efficacy of 18% with a 100% efficacy 
against bacteraemic pneumococcal pneumonia or empyema due to vaccine serotypes. The protection 
was greatest in children < 36 months of age compared to children > 36 months of age suggesting a 
waning of protection. The persistence of protection against pneumonia beyond the age of 36 months is 
currently not established. 
2.3.  Clinical safety 
Overall extent of exposure 
In COMPAS, a total of 11,798 subjects received at least one dose of Synflorix and 11,799 subjects 
received at least one dose of control vaccine and were analysed for safety.  Approximately 84% of the 
subjects received a full four dose course, i.e. 3 primary doses of Synflorix co-administered with 
Infanrix hexa followed by a booster dose of Synflorix co-administered with Infanrix-IPV/Hib for 
subjects in the 10Pn group or 3 primary doses of Engerix-B co-administered with Infanrix-IPV/Hib 
followed by a dose of Havrix, also co-administered with Infanrix-IPV/Hib for subjects in the Control 
group. 
The total vaccinated cohort is presented in Table 13 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 23/34 
 
 
 
The analysis of solicited AEs was performed on the Total Vaccinated cohort from the ‘Immuno and 
reacto’ subset. The analysis of unsolicited AEs was performed on the Total Vaccinated cohort enrolled 
in Panama, while the analysis of SAEs was performed on the Total Vaccinated cohort. 
Table 13 
vaccine (Total vaccinated cohort) 
COMPAS - Number and percentage of subjects who received study vaccine doses by 
10Pn = Primed with Synflorix + Infanrix hexa and boosted with Synflorix + Infanrix-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with Engerix-B + Infanrix-IPV/Hib and boosted with Havrix + Infanrix-IPV/Hib 
N = number of subjects in each group included in the considered cohort 
n/% = number/percentage of subjects receiving the specified total number of doses 
Any = number and percentage of subjects receiving at least one dose 
Demographic and Other Characteristics of Study Population 
Demographic information for subjects in COMPAS included in the TVC and therefore included in the 
analysis of safety for SAEs is provided in Table 14. The mean age at first vaccination was 9.2 weeks 
(range 5 to 18 weeks) and 51% of the study population was male. Overall 57.2% of the subjects were 
White-Caucasian and 39.4% were mainly as mixed race (Other). 
Table 15 presents the demographic characteristics of the cohorts analysed for specific AEs; solicited 
AEs during the 4-day period after each vaccination for 739 subjects enrolled in Panama and Argentina 
and unsolicited AEs for 7214 subjects enrolled in Panama. The mean ages at first vaccination of both 
these cohorts (9.4 weeks and 9.0 weeks, respectively) and the gender (49.4% and 51% of male, 
respectively) were similar to what was observed in the TVC as a whole. Overall, for both of these 
cohorts, 66.1% and 0.4% of the subjects were White-Caucasian; 32.2% and 98.5% of the subjects 
were mainly as mixed race (Other). 
The study duration was at least 22 months for each subject (approximately up to 9 months after the 
booster dose) with last follow-up contact for SAEs at the end of the study (e.g. up to 48 months as for 
CAP/IPD efficacy analysis). 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 24/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 
COMPAS - Summary of demographic characteristics (Total vaccinated cohort) 
10Pn = Primed with Synflorix + Infanrix hexa and boosted with Synflorix + Infanrix-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with Engerix-B + Infanrix -IPV/Hib and boosted with Havrix + Infanrix-IPV/Hib 
N = total number of subjects; n/% = number / percentage of subjects in a given category 
Value = value of the considered parameter; SD = standard deviation 
Table 15 COMPAS - Summary of demographic characteristics in cohorts analysed for adverse events 
10Pn = Primed with Synflorix + Infanrix hexa and boosted with Synflorix + Infanrix-IPV/Hib 
Control = Primed with Engerix-B + Infanrix-IPV/Hib and boosted with Havrix + Infanrix-IPV/Hib 
N = total number of subjects 
n/% = number / percentage of subjects in a given category 
Value = value of the considered parameter 
SD = standard deviation 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 25/34 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of adverse events 
Solicited local and general AEs were only solicited in subjects that were part of the ‘immuno and 
reacto’ subset, i.e., approximately 1,000 subjects (500 subjects respectively in Argentina and Panama) 
were planned to be included in this analysis. Unsolicited symptoms were only collected in subjects that 
were enrolled in Panama. Therefore, the overall incidences of AEs (solicited or unsolicited, local and/ or 
general) are presented for subjects from the TVC who were enrolled in Panama and were part of the 
‘immuno and reacto’ subset. 
Out of the 1,001 subjects who were enrolled in the ‘Immuno and reacto’ subset, 262 subjects from 
Panama were excluded because their parents/LAR(s)/guardian(s) could not be re-contacted (236 
subjects) or did not agree to the use of the subject’s immunogenicity and reactogenicity data after 
they had been informed that they had signed an incorrect version of the ICF (26 subjects).  As a 
consequence, the TVC for solicited AEs analysis actually included 739 subjects (374 subjects in the 
10Pn group and 365 subjects in the Control group). Of these subjects, 713 subjects (96.5%; 362 
subjects in the 10Pn group and 351 subjects in the Control group) received a full primary vaccination 
course and 667 (90.3%; 346 subjects in the 10Pn group and 331 subjects in the Control group) 
received the complete primary and booster course.  
Out of the 7359 subjects who were enrolled in Panama 145 subjects were excluded because the signed 
ICF was not valid (142 subjects) or they did not receive any vaccination (3 subjects). Thus the TVC for 
unsolicited AEs analysis included 7214 subjects (3602 subjects in the 10Pn groups and 3612 subjects 
in the Control group). 
Primary vaccination course 
During the 31- day post-primary vaccination period, the percentage of subjects reporting at least one 
AE (solicited and/or unsolicited, local and/or general) was similar after subsequent doses of the 
primary vaccination course in both groups (87.0% after the first dose, 86.4% after the second dose 
and 82.9% after the third dose in the 10Pn group; 77.9% after the first dose, 73.6% after the second 
dose and 74.5% after the third dose in the Control group). 
During the 31-day post-primary vaccination period at least one AE (solicited and/ or unsolicited, local 
and/ or general) was reported after 85.5% of doses in the 10Pn group and after 75.4% of doses in the 
Control group; grade 3 AEs (solicited and/ or unsolicited, local and/ or general) were reported after 
9.5% of doses in the 10Pn group and after 7.8% of doses in the Control group. The incidence of local 
AEs was lower than the incidence of general AEs after each dose. 
During the 31-day post-booster vaccination period at least one AE (solicited and/ or unsolicited, local 
and/ or general) was reported for 67.0% of subjects in the 10Pn group and 52.9% of subjects in the 
Control group; Grade 3 AEs (solicited and/ or unsolicited, local and/ or general) were reported for 
5.5% of subjects in the 10Pn group and for 4.9% of subjects in the Control group. 
Common Adverse Events 
Solicited local adverse events 
Primary vaccination course 
The incidence of solicited local AEs reported during the 4-day post-primary vaccination was collected. 
During the 4-day post-primary vaccination period, the observed incidence of solicited local (any and 
grade 3) symptoms overall per dose was higher in infants receiving 3 doses of Synflorix and Infanrix 
hexa than in infants receiving 3 doses of Engerix-B control vaccine and Infanrix-IPV/Hib. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 26/34 
 
 
 
Pain (independent of the injection site) was the most frequently reported solicited local AE in both 
groups (52.1% of doses in the 10Pn group and 29.5% of doses in the Control group), followed by 
redness (34.0% of doses vs. 23.3% of doses, respectively) then swelling (26.2% of doses vs. 17.7% 
of doses, respectively). Pain was also the local AE most frequently reported as Grade 3 (after 7.9% of 
doses in the 10Pn group and 3.0% of doses in the Control group). In the 10Pn group, pain (of any 
intensity and Grade 3 pain) was reported at a similar incidence at the Synflorix and Infanrix hexa 
injection sites (49.1% [Synflorix] versus 48.8% [Infanrix hexa] of all doses for any pain and 7.5% 
[Synflorix] versus 6.9% [Infanrix hexa] for Grade 3 pain). 
Medical advice was infrequently sought for any local AE (for ≤ 0.5% of all subjects over the primary 
vaccination course). 
Booster vaccination 
The most frequently reported solicited local AE within the 4-day period after the booster vaccination 
was pain (44.2% of subjects) in the 10Pn group and redness in the Control group (33.7% of subjects). 
In the 10Pn group, the incidence of pain was similar between the two injection sites (40.7% at the 
injection site of Synflorix and 41.3% at the injection site of Infanrix hexa). 
Grade 3 solicited local AEs were reported for a maximum of 4.7% of subjects (pain) in the 10Pn group 
and 6.3% of subjects (redness) in the Control group. 
Medical advice was sought for ≤ 0.6% of all subjects for any local AE after the booster dose. 
No large swelling site reactions were reported following booster vaccination. 
Solicited general adverse events 
Overall, per dose, irritability was the most frequently reported solicited general AE in both groups 
following 52.1% of doses in the 10Pn group and 35.2% of doses in the Control group. 
Rectal temperature > 40°C was experienced following 0.3% of all doses. All episodes of fever > 40°C 
were considered by the Investigator to be related to vaccination. In the Control group, no fever > 40°C 
was reported. Medical advice for fever was sought after 0.6% of all doses of the subjects in the 10Pn 
group and after 0.5% of all doses in the Control group. 
Most solicited general AEs were considered by the Investigator to be causally related to vaccination. 
Irritability was the most frequently reported solicited AE vaccine-related in both groups; reported after 
51.2% of doses in the 10Pn group and after 34.7% of doses in the Control group. Grade 3 drowsiness 
or loss of appetite considered by the Investigator to be related to vaccination were reported after 1.9% 
and 1.2%, respectively, of all doses in the 10Pn group over the primary vaccination course. 
Medical advice for drowsiness and for irritability was sought for only one and two subjects respectively 
and was not sought for loss of appetite. 
Booster vaccination 
Irritability was the most frequently reported solicited general AE in both groups, following 38.2% of 
doses in the 10Pn group and 31.4% of doses in the Control group. 
The most frequently reported solicited general AE considered by the Investigator to be causally related 
was irritability in both groups; reported by 35.6% of subjects in the 10Pn group and by 30.0% of 
subject in the Control group. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 27/34 
 
 
 
Grade 3 solicited general AEs were reported following a maximum of 0.6% of doses (irritability) in the 
10Pn group and 1.7% of doses (loss of appetite) in the Control group. 
No subject in the 10Pn group experienced fever > 40°C after the booster dose. Fever > 40°C was 
reported for 2 subjects in the Ctrl group. 
Deaths   
During the entire study period, a total of 45 subjects (19 subjects in the 10Pn group and 26 subjects in 
the Control group) had an SAE with fatal outcome. None of the reported fatal SAEs were considered by 
the Investigator to be causally related to vaccination. 
For 32 subjects (12 subjects from the 10Pn group and 20 subjects from the Control group), death 
occurred during 1st year of life. 
Other serious adverse events 
The incidence of SAEs from the administration of the first dose up to study end was collected for the 
TVC (23,597 vaccinated subjects [11,798 subjects in the 10Pn group and 11,799 subjects in the 
Control group]) and for the subjects excluded from the TVC. 
During the entire study period, SAEs were reported for 5,202 (22.0%) subjects (2,534 [21.5%] 
subjects in the 10Pn group and 2,668 [22.6%] subjects in the Control group in the TVC. The numbers 
of events appeared to be evenly distributed across the two treatment groups. 
The most commonly reported SAEs (> 1% of subjects in any group) are provided in Table 34, for each 
event.  
The most frequently reported SAE was gastroenteritis in the 10Pn group and pneumonia in the Control 
group; both events were reported with an incidence of 4.7%. 
One SAE reported for one subject in the Control group was considered to be causally related to 
vaccination by the Investigator. Information about this event is provided in Table 35. Subject 59 
developed an apparent life threatening event (coded to the MedDRA SOC Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders) 12 hours after the administration of the second dose of the control vaccine. The 
subject was hospitalised and treated. The event resolved within 1 day. The subject had a low birth 
weight and intrauterine growth retardation, which were considered as risk factors. 
Other Significant Adverse Events 
Adverse events/serious adverse events leading to study withdrawal 
For 72 subjects (32 subjects from the 10Pn group and 40 subjects from the Control group), an SAE 
leading to premature discontinuation was reported. None of these SAEs were considered by the 
Investigator to be related to vaccination. 
Out of the 32 SAEs reported in the 10Pn group, 19 SAEs had fatal outcome. In the Control group, 25 
out of 40 SAEs had fatal outcome.  
Six subjects (3 in the 10Pn group and 3 in the Control group) were withdrawn due to non-serious AEs. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 28/34 
 
 
 
 
Convulsions 
There were 33 convulsive episodes reported after the booster dose (12 in the 10Pn group and 21 in the 
Control group). 
In the 10Pn group, 9 convulsive episodes were categorised as “generalised” and 3 as “missing 
confirmed” i.e. not enough information on the convulsive episode was available to be able to categorise 
it. In the Control group, 15 convulsive episodes were categorised as “generalised” and 3 as “missing 
confirmed”.  
None of convulsion episodes was considered to be causally related to vaccination by the Investigator. 
Analysis of Adverse Events by Organ System or Syndrome 
All unsolicited adverse events 
Out of the 7359 subjects who were enrolled in Panama, 145 subjects were excluded because the 
signed ICF was not valid (142 subjects) or they did not receive any vaccination (3 subjects). Thus the 
TVC for unsolicited AE analysis included 7,214 subjects (3,602 subjects in the 10Pn group and 3,612 
subjects in Control group). This summary presents the analysis of unsolicited symptoms which 
occurred within the 31- day (Days 0-30) period after each vaccination (primary and booster doses). 
Primary vaccination course 
A total of 63.1% of doses in the 10Pn group and 58.4% of doses in the Control group were followed by 
at least one unsolicited AE. The most frequently reported unsolicited AE in the 10Pn group were 
Pyrexia (25.4% of doses) followed by nasopharyngitis (25.2% of doses) and diarrhoea (5.5% of 
doses). In the Control group, the most frequently reported unsolicited AE were nasopharyngitis (26.6% 
of doses), pyrexia (15.7% of doses) and diarrhoea (5.0% of doses). 
Grade 3 unsolicited AEs were reported following 4.6 % of doses in the 10Pn group and 4.5% of doses 
in the Control group. 
Booster vaccination 
At least one unsolicited AE was reported for 50.8% of subjects in the 10Pn group and 49.5% of 
subjects in the Control group. The most frequently reported unsolicited AE were nasopharyngitis 
(21.6% of subjects in the 10Pn group and 20.9% of subjects in the Control group), pyrexia (10.7% of 
subjects in the 10Pn group and 6.9% of subjects in the Control group), and diarrhoea (4.9% of 
subjects in the 10Pn group and 5.4% of subjects in the Control group). 
Grade 3 unsolicited AEs were reported for 4.2% of subjects in the 10Pn group and 3.8% of subjects in 
the Control group. 
2.3.1.  Discussion on the clinical safety 
There was lack of safety data in the interim report submitted with this variation application, therefore 
CHMP requested the MAH to provide all available safety data from the COMPAS study. The CHMP noted 
the multiple analyses performed on various subgroups of smaller size within the COMPAS study as well 
as differences regarding the choice of denominators for some of the analyses.  
The MAH has stated that the TVC included 23,597 (11798 in 10Pn and 11799 in control) subjects which 
represented > 95% of the according-to-protocol cohort.  However, it is noted that only 84.1% of the 
TVC received the full four dose course (primary vaccination + booster dose). Furthermore, different 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 29/34 
 
 
 
populations within the TVC were used to analyse different levels of safety information. An immuno and 
reacto subset of 1001 subjects enrolled in Panama and Argentina was used to analyse solicited local 
and general symptoms; there were only 739 subjects used in the analysis due to exclusions. Another 
subset, subjects from Panama, was used to analyse unsolicited symptoms; there were a total of 7214 
subjects for this analysis. The TVC was used to analyse SAEs from the first vaccine dose until the study 
end as well as the occurrence of a convulsive episode within 30 days after booster vaccination. The 
CHMP recommended using a conservative approach about reporting results from this trial, as the entire 
TVC was not followed for the observation of all analysed events (solicited local/general events, 
unsolicited events).No new safety concerns were observed in the COMPAS study. 
2.3.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
No new safety signals were identified in the submitted final results of the COMPAS study. The current 
approved SmPC adequately reflects the safety profile of Synflorix and no safety updates are deemed 
necessary. 
2.4.  Update of the Product information  
4.1  
Therapeutic indications 
Active immunisation against invasive disease, pneumonia and acute otitis media caused by 
Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and children from 6 weeks up to 5 years of age. See sections 4.4 
and 5.1 for information on protection against specific pneumococcal serotypes. 
The use of Synflorix should be determined on the basis of official recommendations taking into 
consideration the impact of on pneumococcalinvasive diseases in different age groups as well as the 
variability of serotype the epidemiology in different geographical areas.  
As a consequence of this new indication, sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC have been updated. The 
Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. Changes were also made to the PI to bring it in line 
with the current Agency/QRD template, which were reviewed and accepted by the CHMP. 
4.4  
Special warnings and precautions for use 
As with any vaccine, Synflorix may not protect all vaccinated individuals against invasive pneumococcal 
disease, pneumonia or otitis media caused by the serotypes in the vaccine. Protection against otitis 
media caused by pneumococcal serotypes in the vaccine and protection against pneumonia is expected 
to be substantially lower than protection against invasive disease. In addition, aAs otitis media and 
pneumonia is are caused by many micro-organisms other than the Streptococcus pneumoniae 
serotypes represented in the vaccine, the overall protection against otitis mediathese diseases is 
expected to be limited (see section 5.1). 
In clinical trials Synflorix elicited an immune response to all ten serotypes included in the vaccine, but 
the magnitude of the responses varied between serotypes. The functional immune response to 
serotypes 1 and 5 was lower in magnitude than the response against all other vaccine serotypes. It is 
not known whether this lower functional immune response against serotypes 1 and 5 will result in 
lower protective efficacy against invasive disease, pneumonia or otitis media caused by these 
serotypes (see section 5.1). 
5.1  
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Epidemiological data 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 30/34 
 
 
 
Pneumonia of different aetiologies is a leading cause of childhood morbidity and mortality globally. In 
prospective studies, Streptococcus pneumoniae was estimated to be responsible for 30-50% of 
pneumonia cases. 
1. Invasive pneumococcal disease (which includes sepsis, meningitis, bacteraemic pneumonia and 
bacteraemia) 
2. Pneumonia 
Efficacy against pneumonia was assessed in a large-scale randomised, double-blind clinical trial 
(Clinical Otitis Media and Pneumonia Study - COMPAS) conducted in Latin America. 23,738 healthy 
infants received either Synflorix or hepatitis B control vaccine at 2, 4 and 6 months of age followed 
respectively by either Synflorix or hepatitis A control vaccine at 15 to 18 months of age. The mean 
duration follow-up from 2 weeks post-dose 3 in the ATP cohort was 23 months (range from 0 to 34 
months) for the interim analysis (IA) and 30 months (range from 0 to 44 months) for the end-of-study 
analysis. At the end of this IA or end-of-study ATP follow-up period, the mean age was 29 months 
(range from 4 to 41 months) and 36 months (range from 4 to 50 months), respectively. The proportion 
of subjects who received the booster dose in the ATP cohort was 92.3% in both analyses. 
Efficacy of Synflorix against first episodes of likely bacterial Community Acquired Pneumonia (CAP) 
occurring from 2 weeks after the administration of the 3rd dose was demonstrated in the ATP cohort (P 
value ≤ 0.002) in the interim analysis (event-driven; primary objective).  
Likely bacterial CAP (B-CAP) is defined as radiologically confirmed CAP cases with either alveolar 
consolidation/pleural effusion on the chest X-ray, or with non alveolar infiltrates but with C reactive 
protein (CRP) ≥ 40 mg/L. 
The vaccine efficacy against B-CAP observed at the interim analysis is presented below (table 3). 
Numbers and percentages of subjects with first episodes of B-CAP occurring 
Table 3: 
from 2 weeks after the administration of the 3rd dose of Synflorix or control vaccine and 
vaccine efficacy (ATP cohort) 
Synflorix 
N=10,295 
n 
Control vaccine 
N=10,201 
n 
Vaccine efficacy 
% (n/N) 
% (n/N) 
240 
2.3% 
304 
3.0% 
22.0% 
(95% CI: 7.7; 34.2) 
number of subjects per group 
N 
n/%  number/percentage of subjects reporting a first episode of B-CAP anytime from 2 weeks after 
the administration of the 3rd dose 
Confidence Interval 
CI 
In the interim analysis (ATP cohort), the vaccine efficacy against first episodes of CAP with alveolar 
consolidation or pleural effusion (C-CAP, WHO definition) was 25.7% (95% CI: 8.4; 39.6) and against 
first episodes of clinically suspected CAP referred for X-ray was 6.7% (95% CI: 0.7; 12.3). 
At the end-of-study analysis (ATP cohort), the vaccine efficacy (first episodes) against B-CAP was 
18.2% (95% CI: 4.1; 30.3), against C-CAP 22.4% (95% CI: 5.7; 36.1) and against clinically suspected 
CAP referred for X-ray 7.3% (95% CI: 1.6; 12.6). Efficacy was 100% (95% CI: 41.9; 100) against 
bacteraemic pneumococcal pneumonia or empyema due to vaccine serotypes.  The protection against 
B-CAP before booster dose and at the time or after booster dose was 13.6% (95% CI: -11.3; 33.0) 
and 21.7% (95% CI: 3.4; 36.5) respectively. For C-CAP it was 15.1% (95% CI: -15.5; 37.6) and 
26.3% (95% CI: 4.4; 43.2) respectively. 
The reduction in B-CAP and C-CAP was greatest in children < 36 months of age (vaccine efficacy of 
20.6% (95% CI: 6.5; 32.6) and 24.2% (95% CI: 7.4; 38.0) respectively). Vaccine efficacy results in 
children > 36 months of age suggest a waning of protection. The persistence of protection against B-
CAP and C-CAP beyond the age of 36 months is currently not established. 
The results of the COMPAS study, which was performed in Latin America, should be interpreted with 
caution due to possible differences in epidemiology of pneumonia in different geographical locations. 
As a consequence of the introduction of pneumonia as a disease caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae 
the numbering in this section as well as the numbering of the Tables have been re-ordered. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 31/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet 
Section 1. 
What Synflorix is and what it is used for 
It is used to help protect your child from 6 weeks up to 5 years of age against: 
a bacteria called ‘Streptococcus pneumoniae’. This bacteria can cause serious illnesses including 
meningitis, sepsis or and bacteraemia (bacteria in blood stream) and as well as ear infection and or 
pneumonia. 
2.5.  Significance of paediatric studies 
The CHMP is of the opinion that study 10PN-PD-DIT-028 (Clinical Otitis Media and Pneumonia Study 
[COMPAS]) is contained in the agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan, which is not yet completed, is 
considered as significant. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The primary endpoint results of the COMPAS study demonstrated a vaccine of efficacy of 22% against 
likely bacterial community acquired pneumonia. These results were considered statistically significant 
and clinically relevant when the burden of disease is taken into consideration. The end of study results 
confirmed the interim results. The observed protective efficacy of Synflorix against likely bacterial 
community acquired pneumonia was supported by results for other definitions of community acquired 
pneumonia and by sensitivity analysis carried out. The protection was greatest in children < 36 months 
of age. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The protection against pneumonia caused by pneumococcal vaccine serotypes is expected to be 
substantially lower than protection against invasive disease. Serotype distribution for pneumonia in the 
COMPAS study conducted in Latin America does not significantly differ from a European setting and 
therefore it is expected that a similar benefit of vaccination might be observed in a European 
population. However, lower efficacy could be observed in Europe depending on pneumonia serotype 
distribution determined by non-vaccine serotypes. Although the study was not primarily designed to 
evaluate the duration of protection; waning was observed. The age when no relevant protection can be 
expected is unknown.  
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The reactogenicity is generally similar to what has been shown previously in younger children. No new 
safety signals were identified in the submitted final results of the COMPAS study. The current approved 
SmPC adequately reflects the safety profile of Synflorix and no safety updates are warranted. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 32/34 
 
 
 
 
Benefit-risk balance 
Based on the current evidence the CHMP concluded that the benefit-risk balance is favourable in the 
claimed indication. The use of the vaccine should occur in accordance with official national 
recommendations. 
4.  Recommendations 
 The application for extension of the indication to include active immunisation against pneumonia for 
Synflorix is approvable as all other concerns have been resolved. 
Final Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following changes: 
Variation(s) accepted 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
II 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one 
Extension of indication to include active immunisation against pneumonia for Synflorix. 
As a consequence of the new indication, sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the Summary of Product 
Characteristics have been updated with data from study10PN-PD-DIT-028 - Clinical Otitis Media and 
Pneumonia Study (COMPAS). The Package Leaflet is updated in accordance. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet. 
Paediatric data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan [P/0162/2012] and the results of these studies are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and in the Package Leaflet. 
5.  EPAR changes 
The EPAR will be updated following Commission Decision for this variation. In particular the EPAR 
module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Extension of indication to include active immunisation against pneumonia for Synflorix. 
As a consequence, sections 4.1, 4.4 and 5.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics have been 
updated with data from study10PN-PD-DIT-028 - Clinical Otitis Media and Pneumonia Study 
(COMPAS). The Package Leaflet was updated in accordance. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and 
Package Leaflet. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 33/34 
 
 
 
Summary 
Please refer to Assessment Report EMEA/H/C/000973/II/52. 
Synflorix 
Assessment report  
EMA/73592/2014 
Page 34/34 
 
 
 
