European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Synflorix 
Common Name: Pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000973 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 4 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 4 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 6 
2.1 
2.2 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 6 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 8 
2.3. 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 17 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 20 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 54 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 59 
Synflorix 
Page 2 of 61 
 
 
 
 
11Pn-PD 
11Pn-PD&Di 
11Pn-PD-DiT 
23vPS 
AOM 
ATP 
CDAP 
CDC 
CFU 
CI 
C-PS 
DT or Di 
DTPa 
ELISA 
ESMS 
GMC/T 
GSK 
HAV 
HBV 
Hib 
HPSEC 
HRV 
IEF 
IPD 
IPV  
LAL 
MALLS 
MenC 
MenC-TT 
Meningitec 
MMRV 
MSD 
NeisVacC 
NTHi 
OD 
OPA 
OPV  
PD 
Pneumovax 23  
POET 
Prevenar 
Priorix tetra 
PS 
RCDC 
Rotarix 
SAE 
SD 
SDS-PAGE 
SOP 
TT 
WHO 
Synflorix 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
Undecavalent (11-valent) pneumococcal protein D conjugate (vaccine). 
Serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F. 
Undecavalent (11-valent) pneumococcal protein D and diphtheria toxoid 
conjugate (vaccine). Serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F. 
Undecavalent (11-valent) pneumococcal protein D, diphtheria toxoid and tetanus 
toxoid conjugate (vaccine). Serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F &23F. 
23-valent pneumococcal vaccine Pneumovax 23  
Acute otitis media 
According to protocol  
(1-cyano-4-dimethylamino-pyridinium tetrafluoroborate) 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, USA 
Colony forming unit 
Confidence interval 
Cellular polysaccharide 
Diphtheria toxoid 
Diphteria, tetanus and pertussis (acellular) vaccine 
Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay 
 Electrospray Mass Spectroscopy 
Geometric Mean Concentration/Titre 
GlaxoSmithKline 
Hepatitis A virus (vaccine) (Havrix) 
Hepatitis B virus (vaccine) 
Haemophilus influenzae type b 
Size exclusion HPLC 
Human Rotavirus Vaccine 
Isoelectric focusing 
Invasive pneumococcal disease 
Inactivated poliomyelitis (vaccine) 
Limulus amebocyte lysate 
multiple angle laser light scattering 
Neisseria meningitidis polysaccharide C 
Meningococcal C-tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine 
Wyeth’s meningococcal group C oligosaccharide-CRM197 conjugate vaccine 
Measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccine (Priorix tetra) 
Molecular size distribution 
Baxter’s meningococcal grp C polysaccharide-tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine 
Non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae 
Optical density 
Opsonophagocytic assay 
Oral poliomyelitis (vaccine) 
Protein D 
Sanofi-Aventis’ 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 
Pneumococcal Otitis Efficacy Trial 
Wyeth’s 7-valent pneumococcal saccharide CRM197 conjugate vaccine. 
Serotypes: 4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F.  
GSK Biologicals’ measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccine 
Polysaccharide 
Reverse cumulative distribution curve 
GSK Biologicals’ live attenuated human rotavirus vaccine 
Serious adverse event 
Standard deviation 
Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis 
Standard operating procedure 
Tetanus toxoid  
 World Health Organisation 
Page 3 of 61 
 
 
  
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. submitted on 30 December 2007 an application for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Synflorix,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  Article  3(1)  and  point  1  of  Annex  of  Regulation  (EC)  No 
726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised  procedure  was  agreed  upon  by  the  EMEA/CHMP  on  29 
June 2006.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: 
composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on 
applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or 
studies. 
Scientific Advice: 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  on  25  July  2003  and  29  July  2005.  The 
Scientific Advice pertained to quality and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Bengt Ljungberg 
Co-Rapporteur:  
Pieter Neels 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 30 December 2007. 
The procedure started on 30 January 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  18  April 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 20 
April 2008.  
The Biologics Working Party during its meeting of 19-21 May 2008 adopted a BWP Report to 
be transmitted to the CHMP for endorsement. 
During the meeting on 27-30 May 2008 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
30 May 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  19 
August 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 3 October 2008. 
The Biologics Working Party during its meeting of 13-15 October 2008 adopted a BWP Report 
to be transmitted to the CHMP for endorsement. 
During the CHMP meeting on 20-23 October 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
18 December 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 5 January 2009. 
The Biologics Working Party during its meeting of 12-14 January 2008 adopted a BWP Report 
to be transmitted to the CHMP for endorsement. 
Synflorix 
Page 4 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
During the meeting on 19-22 January 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Synflorix on 22 January 2009. The applicant provided the letter of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 16 January 2009. 
The  CHMP  opinions  were  forwarded,  in  all  official  languages  of  the  European  Union,  to  the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decisions on 30 March 2009.  
Synflorix 
Page 5 of 61 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Streptococcus  pneumoniae  is  the  leading  cause  of  invasive  pneumococcal  disease  (IPD)  (including 
septicemia, meningitis, and bacteraemic pneumonia) and non invasive pneumococcal diseases (such as 
acute  otitis  media  (AOM),  non-bacteraemic  pneumonia,  sinusitis,  and  bronchitis)  in  young  children. 
WHO estimates that about 16 million people, including up to 1 million children under 5 years old, die 
every year of pneumococcal disease. The highest incidence of IPD is found at the extremes of age - in 
young children <2 years of age and in elderly adults. The highest morbidity and mortality rates have 
been  reported  in  developing  countries,  but  the  disease  burden  is  considerable  also  in  industrialised 
countries.  Extrapolation  of  data  on  hospitalizations  due  to  IPD  from  England  and  Wales  (prior  to 
introduction of Prevenar) to the EU paediatric population <5 years of age indicate that there would be 
6500 IPD cases and 61,000 pneumonia cases annually. Acute otitis media is most prevalent in early 
childhood and it has been estimated that each year in the EU 2.1 million AOM cases occur in children 
<5 years of age. Bacteria are isolated in ~70% of children with otitis media, with S. pneumoniae and 
H. influenzae being the most commonly identified pathogens. 
Despite  the  availability  of  antibiotic  therapies  the  mortality  of  pneumococcal  disease  remains  high. 
The  continuing  emergence  of  penicillin-resistant  and  multidrug-resistant  pneumococcal  strains  is  an 
increasing  global  threat  posing  serious  therapeutic  challenges.  Although  the  resistance  patterns  vary 
between  countries,  the  predominance  of  certain  serotypes  (i.e.  6A,  6B,  9V,  14,  19A,  19F,  and  23F) 
among the resistant organisms is shared.  
Pneumococcal  capsular  polysaccharide  vaccines  have  been  licensed  since  1977.  The  23-valent 
unconjugated  vaccines  (23vPS)  are  designed  to  provide  coverage  of  ~90%  of  the  most  frequently 
reported isolates. These vaccines do not, however, induce immune memory and children below 2 years 
of age do not respond to polysaccharides. By using conjugate technology the polysaccharide antigens 
can induce a T-cell response, enabling its use in young children. Prevenar, containing 7 serotypes (4, 
6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F) individually conjugated to CRM197 protein was the first pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine being licensed in the EU (2001) for use in children from 2 months of age for the 
prevention of IPD. Efficacy was 97.4% in preventing vaccine-serotype IPD and 57% against vaccine-
serotype pneumococcal AOM. Synflorix is a second generation vaccine being developed and contains 
other carrier proteins (protein D, DT and TT) and three more pneumococcal serotypes (1, 5 and 7F) in 
addition to the seven shared with Prevenar. The three additional serotypes are among the major IPD-
causing  serotypes  worldwide  and  represent  in  Europe  a  combined  average  of  13%  of  all  IPD  in 
children  <5  years  of  age.  Protein  D  was  selected  as  a  carrier  protein,  due  to  its  potential  to  provide 
protection against H. influenzae infections. 
There are at least 91 distinct pneumococcal serotypes, but only 10 to 15 cause the vast majority of IPD 
worldwide.  The  global  epidemiology  of  pneumococcal  serotypes  and  their  role  in  disease  differ 
between  continents.  However,  worldwide  a  limited  set  of  7  serotypes  (=  1,  5,  6A,  6B,  14,  19F  and 
23F) account for 66-76% of IPD among children <5 years of age across regions. The most common 
serogroups responsible for paediatric IPD in the industrialised countries are in descending order: 14, 6, 
19, 18, 23, 9, 1, 7, 4, and 5, whereas other serogroups predominate in the developing countries. The 
epidemiology in Europe differs from that in the US, mainly by the serotypes 1, 5 and 6A being more 
common.  Prevenar  serotypes  account  for  more  than  50%  of  IPD  isolates  worldwide  and  covers  in 
Western Europe at least two-thirds of all isolates. Synflorix is estimated to cover at least two-thirds of 
all invasive isolates in children aged <5 years in virtually all countries studied and more than 80% of 
isolates in Western Europe. 
Since 2000, when universal mass vaccination with Prevenar was implemented in the US, the number 
of IPD cases among children aged below 5 years has fallen from an average of 17,240 cases per year 
in the pre-vaccination era to 4,454 cases in 2003. A significant decline in IPD caused by penicillin-
resistant  strains  has  also  been  reported.  In  addition,  substantial  decreases  in  IPD  in  other,  non-
Page 6 of 61 
Synflorix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
immunized age groups have been documented, and the number of cases prevented through this herd 
protection is approximately double that attributed to direct protection alone.  
However, over subsequent years an increase has been observed for IPD caused by the serotypes not 
contained  in  the  vaccine.  The  experience  gained  indicates  that  close  long-term  monitoring  of 
pneumococcal  disease  is  essential  during  widespread  use  of  pneumococcal  vaccines.  Generalised 
immunisation programmes with Prevenar have been implemented in EU countries in recent years and 
effectiveness data against IPD are awaited. 
Licensure criteria for pneumococcal conjugate vaccines 
Over  the  past  years,  regulatory  agencies  and  experts  in  the  field  have  reflected  upon  the  serological 
criteria  for  the  evaluation  and  licensure  of  new  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccines.  It  was  agreed  to 
follow  the  same  pathway  as  used  for  licensure  of  Hib  and  MenC  conjugate  vaccines,  and  after  the 
demonstration of a high level of invasive pneumococcal disease efficacy in Northern California with 
Prevenar,  to  licence  future  new  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccines  for  IPD  purely  on  the  basis  of 
immunological data in comparison with the licensed vaccine. A consensus recommendation on criteria 
for licensure of new pneumococcal conjugate vaccines against IPD was reached at the WHO Expert 
Committee meeting in 2003 (WHO 2005, Jodar 2004, Lee 2003). These criteria (published in WHO 
technical  Report  Series  (TRS)  927,  annex  2),  with  additional  emphasis  on  the  assessment  of  the 
functionality of  the  anti-pneumoccocal  antibodies measured  by the  OPA  assay,  were  confirmed  in  a 
WHO sponsored follow-up meeting (World Health Organization (WHO) 2008. WHO/Health Canada 
Consultation on Serological Criteria for Evaluation and Licensing of New Pneumococcal Vaccines, 7-
8 July 2008, Ottawa, Canada)1.  
The following criteria are recommended for use as the primary end-point for demonstration of non-
inferiority against a registered vaccine: 
• 
IgG antibody concentration, as measured by ELISA, in sera collected 4 weeks after a three-
dose primary series is considered to be the primary end-point and main licensing parameter. 
•  A  single  threshold  or  reference  antibody  concentration  is  recommended  for  use  for  all 
pneumococcal  serotypes.  A  reference  antibody  concentration  of  0.35μg/ml,  that  has  been 
determined  through  a  pooled  analysis  of  data  from  the  efficacy  trials  with  invasive  disease 
end-points  that  have  been  completed  to  date,  is  recommended.  This  threshold  does  not 
necessarily predict protection in an individual subject. 
•  The  reference  value  is  defined  on  the  basis  of  data  obtained  using  ELISA  without  pre-
adsorption  with  serotype  22F.  Antibody  concentrations  determined  using  an  alternative 
method will need to be bridged to this method to derive an equivalent threshold concentration. 
It is recommended that the assay used be calibrated against a reference assay. 
•  Direct  clinical  comparison  of  the  registered  (established)  vaccine  with  the  new  one  is  the 
preferred method for evaluating new vaccine formulations. 
•  The  percentage  of  responders  (those  in  whom  post-immunization  antibody  concentration  is 
above the threshold) should be used as the criterion to determine non-inferiority. 
•  For  the  serotypes  present  in  a  registered  vaccine,  the  percentage  of  responders  to  each 
serotype  in  the  new  formulation  or  combination  should  be  compared  with  the  percentage  of 
responders to the same serotype in the registered vaccine in the same population.  
•  Non-inferiority  to  antibody  response  for  each  of  the  serotypes  in  the  registered  vaccine  is 
desirable,  but  not  an  absolute  requirement.  Registration  of  products  in  which  one  or  more 
serotypes do not meet non-inferiority criteria would have to be decided on an individual basis.  
•  Serotypes not contained in a registered formulation may be evaluated for non-inferiority to the 
aggregate  response  to  the  serotypes  in  the  registered  vaccine.  Failure  of  one  or  more  new 
serotypes to meet this criterion may be considered on an individual basis. 
1 Meeting report published on the WHO website: 
http://www.who.int/biologicals/publications/meetings/areas/vaccines/pneumococcal/en/index.html 
Synflorix 
Page 7 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Additional criteria that must be met to support registration:  
• 
In addition to showing non-inferiority with respect to the primary end-point, additional data to 
demonstrate the functional capacity of the antibody and induction of immunological memory 
in a subset of the sera are required for registration. 
•  Functional antibodies 
       -  Opsonophagocytic  activity  (OPA)  as  measured  by  opsonophagocytic  assay  after  a  three-
dose priming series is required to demonstrate the functionality of antibodies. 
       - The method used to demonstrate OPA should be comparable to the reference assay. 
• 
Immunological memory 
       -  Evidence  of  memory  should  be  demonstrated.  One  possible  method  is  to  administer  a 
booster  dose  of  pneumococcal  polysaccharide  vaccine  and  to  compare  concentrations 
between age-matched unprimed and primed individuals; data from non-concurrent controls 
may be sufficient for the purposes of comparison. 
       -  A  full  dose  of  polysaccharide  vaccine  should  be  used  at  this  stage  because  the  use  of  a 
reduced dose of the polysaccharide vaccine as a booster has not been sufficiently tested. 
In view of the considerable public health impact of successful vaccines against pneumococcal disease, 
the WHO has stated that the development of safe, effective vaccines that offer broad protection against 
pneumococcal disease should be a high priority. There is an unmet medical need for extended valency 
vaccines  beyond  the  seven  serotypes  designed  to  better  cover  the  global  pneumococcal  serotype 
distribution.  Of  note  is  that  the  presence  of  serotypes  1  and  5  is  considered  critical  by  WHO  and 
Global  Alliance  for  Vaccines  and  Immunization  (GAVI),  given  their  important  contribution  to  the 
burden of disease in developing countries. Therefore, new pneumococcal conjugate vaccines including 
more  pneumococcal  serotypes  would  offer  additional  benefit  and  expand  the  pneumococcal  disease 
coverage in infants and young children.  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Synflorix is composed of the capsular polysaccharides purified from 10 serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 
14, 18C, 19F and 23F each conjugated to a carrier protein, either protein D (PD), tetanus toxoid (TT or 
T) or diphtheria toxoid (DT). 
Protein D is used as carrier protein for 8 out of the 10 serotypes (serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14 and 
23F). All polysaccharides conjugated to PD are formulated at a dosage of 1µg of polysaccharide per 
dose  (serotypes  1,  5,  6B,  7F,  9V,  14,  23F),  with  the  exception  of  serotype  4  at  3µg.  Serotype  19F 
conjugated to DT and serotype 18C conjugated to TT are formulated at 3 µg of polysaccharide. 
Synflorix  is  a  preservative-free  liquid  suspension,  adjuvanted  with  aluminium  phosphate,  and 
presented  as  a  mono-dose  (in  glass  syringes  or  glass  vials)  or  two-dose  (in  glass  vials)  ready  for 
intramuscular injection. The volume per nominal dose is 0.5ml.  
Active Substance   
The  10  active  ingredients  included  in  Synflorix  consist  of  the  Streptococcus  pneumoniae 
polysaccharide  serotypes  1,  4,  5,  6B,  7F,  9V,  14,  18C,  19F  and  23F  each  conjugated  to  a  carrier 
protein (either PD, TT or DT). 
The  purified  polysaccharides,  tetanus  toxoid,  diphtheria  toxoid  and  protein  D  are  considered  as 
intermediates. 
•  Manufacture 
The production process of conjugates implies the following main steps: 
Synflorix 
Page 8 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Fermentation  of  S.  pneumoniae  bacterial  strains,  followed  by  inactivation  and  purification  of 
the polysaccharides (PS), 
2.  Fermentation  of E.  coli  for  the  production  of  the  recombinant  protein  D  (PD),  followed  by 
PD purification, 
3.  Fermentation of Clostridium tetani  for the production of tetanus toxin (TT), followed by TT 
detoxification and purification, 
4.  Fermentation  of Corynebacterium  diphtheriae  for  the  production of  diphtheria  toxoid  (DT), 
followed by DT detoxification and purification, 
5.  Production of conjugates: coupling of each of the S. pneumoniae serotype polysaccharides to 
either PD, DT or TT utilizing CDAP (1-cyano-4-dimethylamino-pyridinium tetrafluoroborate) 
as chemical reagent.  
6.  Purification and sterile filtration of the conjugates. 
Process control and/or validation: 
The  company  has  established  a  system  of  process  control  during  the  manufacturing  of  the  active 
substances  using  “in-process  tests”  with  assigned  specifications  and  “monitoring  tests”  used  to 
monitor the process consistency and performance. 
Validation  of  the  intermediates  and  active  substance  production  process  was  performed  by  the 
demonstration  of  process  consistency  through  compliance  with  the  pre-established  quality  control 
(QC)  standards  and  by  the  identification  and  validation  of  the  manufacturing  process  critical 
parameters. 
Consistency  was  demonstrated  for  the  identified  unit-steps  of  the  different  intermediates  and  drug 
substance  production  processes.  Critical  process  parameters  have  been  satisfactorily  identified  and 
batch data provided. 
Production and control of starting materials/intermediates 
S. pneumoniae Polysaccharides 
Seed  lot  system:  the  bacteria  used  for  the  preparation  of  the  polysaccharides  are  strains  of 
S. pneumoniae isolated from patients with otitis media. Master and working seeds from these strains 
were  derived  and  have  been  grown  and  stored  in  the  absence  of  any  material  of  animal  origin. 
Satisfactory  quality  control  testing  are  in  place  and satisfactory stability  data  and  storage  conditions 
have been described for these seed lots. 
Master and working seeds are tested for purity (by growing the seeds on rich media supplemented with 
optochin), and identity (by optochin test, gram staining and Quellung reaction). 
Fermentation and purification: the production of the polysaccharides of the different serotypes is very 
similar and differs just in a few aspects of the purification process, depending on the nature of the PS: 
acid or neutral PS.  
The content of a working seed vial is used to inoculate the fermentor; the fermentation occurs under 
controlled  temperature,  air-flow  rate  conditions  and  stirring,  and  it  is  stopped  according  to  optical 
density (OD) measurement. 
At  the  end  of  the  fermentation,  inactivation  of  bacteria  is  achieved  using  phenol  added  to  the 
fermentation broth.  
The  pneumococcal  polysaccharides  are  purified  by  precipitation  with  appropriate  reagents, 
ultrafiltration  and  column  chromatography.  After  purification,  the  polysaccharides  are  precipitated 
with alcohol followed by filtration in order to recover the polysaccharide as a pellet which is vacuum 
dried.  
The PS bulks are stored as dessicated powders at -20°C or -70°C depending on the serotype.  
The description of the fermentation and purification process of the pneumococcal polysaccharides and 
the  corresponding  in-process  and  release  testing  is  adequate.  Critical  process  parameters  have  been 
satisfactorily documented. 
Characterisation:  Characterisation  analyses  of  polysaccharide  bulks  documenting  identity,  structure, 
size,  integrity  and  content  of  functional  groups  (O-acetyl  groups,  hexosamines,  methylpentoses  and 
Synflorix 
Page 9 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
uronic  acids)  were  performed.  With  regard  to  functional  groups,  traditional  chemical  assays  and  H-
NMR were utilized and results compared. H-NMR is used as the routine release test for identity and 
quantification of functional groups as of the second commercial campaign of polysaccharide bulks.  
Satisfactory characterization of batches produced at commercial scale were presented.  
Impurities:  the  characterisation  of  the  impurities  of  the  polysaccharides  has  been  satisfactorily 
described  and  includes  series  of  bacterial-strain  related  and  process-related  impurities.  The  data 
presented  demonstrate  the  efficiency  and  the  consistency  of  the  purification  process  in  eliminating 
process-related impurities. 
Specification: the company  releases the polysaccharides based upon water content, alcohol content, 
identity,  molecular  size  distribution,  residual  protein  and  nucleic  acid  content,  phosphorous  content, 
nitrogen content, O-acetyl content, hexosamines content, methylpentoses  content, uronic acid content, 
CPS content and endotoxin. 
The  specifications  applied  to  most  of  the  tests  are  those  recommended  by  the  applicable  guidelines 
(Ph. Eur. 966 guideline ‘Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine’; WHO guideline ‘Recommendations 
for production and control of S. pneumoniae conjugate vaccines’ (WHO Technical Report Series 927, 
2005);  Ph.  Eur.  Monograph  2150  ‘Pneumococcal  polysaccharide  conjugate  vaccine’  (adsorbed)).   
Analytical methods have been adequately described and validated. 
With  regard  to  the  H-NMR  specifications  for  functional  group  contents,  the  Ph.  Eur.  specifications 
based  on  the  traditional  chemical  assays  were  adapted  using  a  correlation  factor  taking  into account 
the intrinsic differences between both methods.  
Batch  analysis:  Batch  analysis  data  are  demonstrative  of  a  consistent  production  process  and  are 
compatible with the specifications for the pneumococcal polysaccharides. 
Stability:  The  stability  of  purified  S.  pneumoniae  polysaccharides  (PS)  is  assessed  by  long-
term,  real-time  stability  studies  (up  to  84  months)  on  three  batches  per  polysaccharide 
serotype. Batches are stored at -20°C or -70°C depending on the serotype.  
Prior to conjugation, the size of the polysaccharides is mechanically reduced for most of the serotypes. 
The microfluidised PS bulks are stored at +2-8°C.  
Protein D 
Protein D (PD) is a 40kDa cell-surface protein originally derived from non-typeable H. influenzae and 
produced from the recombinant E. coli strain B1084 (derived from strain AR58). This specific strain is 
modified to express the outer surface protein of Haemophilus influenzae, protein D.  
Seed lot system: the genetic construct of the recombinant strain has been acceptably described as is the 
control  of  the  seed  lot  system.  Tests  and  specifications  applied  on  the  Master  Seed  (MS)  and  the 
current  Working  Seed  (WS)  include  E.  coli  identification,  plasmid  retention,  microbial  purity  and 
antigen identity. 
Fermentation  and  purification:  the  purified  protein  D  bulk  manufacturing  process  is  divided  into  2 
stages: fermentation and purification. Fermentation covers the E. coli preculture in liquid medium and 
culture  in  a  fermentor  including  the  induction  phase  for  the  expression  of  the  protein  D.  After 
fermentation, the biomass is homogenised using a high-pressure homogeniser.  
The  protein  D  is  purified  by  a  series  of  chromatographic  steps  and  diafiltration,  and  finally  sterile 
filtered using a 0.22µm filter.  
Protein D purified bulk is stored frozen at –45°C.  
The description of the fermentation and purification process of the protein D and the corresponding in-
process and release testing is adequate. Critical process parameters have been satisfactorily 
documented. 
Characterisation: in addition to the tests conducted in routine for lot release, the following structural 
properties were analysed: molecular weight by MALLS and Electrospray Mass Spectroscopy (ESMS), 
Synflorix 
Page 10 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
electrophoresis profiles by SDS-PAGE, Western Blot and isoelectric focusing (IEF), primary structure 
by  amino  acid  analysis,  peptide  mapping  and  N-terminal  sequence  analysis,  secondary  structure  by 
circular dichroism spectroscopy. 
This  extensive  characterization  data  package  demonstrate  the  quality,  the  consistency  and  the  good 
stability profile of protein D bulk when stored at -45°C.  
Impurities:  the  data  presented  demonstrate  the  efficiency  and  the  consistency  of  the  purification 
process in eliminating process-related impurities.  
Specification:  Routine  release  of  protein  D  includes  tests  such  as  identity,  purity,  sterility,  protein 
content and endotoxin content. The specifications proposed for the release of protein D purified bulk 
have been established based on batch analysis data obtained from the lots produced to date. They are 
in  line  with  the  testing  proposed  for  the  control  of  carrier  proteins  in  the  relevant  guidelines  (WHO 
guideline  ‘Recommendations  for  production  and  control  of  S.  pneumoniae  conjugate  vaccines  (TRS 
927, 2005), and Ph. Eur. guideline 2150 ‘Adsorbed pneumococcal conjugate vaccine’). 
Analytical methods have been adequately described and validated.  
Stability:  The  stability  of  protein  D  at  -45°C  has  been  assessed  by  long-term,  real-time  stability 
studies.  
Purified tetanus toxoid (TT)  
Seed  lot  system:  The  strain  of  C.  tetani  that  is  used  to  manufacture  purified  tetanus  toxoid  is  the 
Harvard strain No 49205 Y-IV-4. The seed lot system was established using meat-free culture media. 
The  testing  programs  performed  on  the  master  seed  and  the  working  seed  are  identical  and  include 
tests  for  microbiological  purity,  colony  morphology,  haemolysis  and  purity  by  microscopic 
examination.  
Fermentation  and  purification:  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  purified  tetanus  toxoid  consists  of 
three main stages: fermentation, detoxification and purification. 
The  production  of  purified  tetanus  toxoid  is  performed  following  the  WHO  and  general  GMP 
requirements.  Purified  tetanus  toxoid,  complies  with  WHO  (TRS  800),  Ph.  Eur.  (Monograph  0452) 
requirements and GSK Bio specification.  
The  description  of  the  fermentation  and  purification  process  of  the  TT  and  the  corresponding  in-
process and release testing are adequate. 
Characterisation: In addition to the routine QC testing, characterisation was conducted on the purified 
TT  bulks  including  SDS  gel  electrophoresis,  isoelectric  focusing  and  other  physicochemical  tests. 
Consistent results in SDS-PAGE band pattern and other characteristics were obtained for the different 
parameters assessed.  
Impurities:  Manufacturing  impurities  are  satisfactorily  assessed  through  the  QC  release  testing 
program.  
Specification: The tests and specifications for release of the TT bulks are complying with WHO (TRS 
n° 800) and Ph. Eur. requirements on bulk Tetanus Toxoid (Ph. Eur. 0452). 
Analytical methods have been adequately described and validated.  
Satisfactory batch analysis data demonstrative of a consistent manufacturing process and compatible 
with present specifications are provided.  
Stability:  the  stability  of  purified  tetanus  toxoid  at  2-8°C  has  been  assessed  by  long-term,  real-time 
stability  studies.  Test  methods  and  specifications  applied  are  the  same  as  those  applicable  for  QC 
release of the toxoid. 
Synflorix 
Page 11 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purified diphtheria toxoid (DT)  
Seed  lot  system:  the  strain  of  Corynebacterium  diphtheriae  that  is  used  to  manufacture  purified 
diphtheria  toxoid  was  obtained  from  SmithKline  Beecham  (Belgium)  in  1999.  The  seed  lot  system 
was established using meat-free culture media. 
The testing programs performed on the master seeds and the working seeds are identical and include: 
microbiological  purity  on  blood  and  TSA  agar,  colony  morphology,  haemolysis  and  microscopic 
examination (Gram-staining). 
Fermentation and purification: the manufacturing process of the purified diphtheria toxoid consists of 
3 main stages: fermentation, detoxification and purification. 
The  production  of  purified  diphtheria  toxoid  is  performed  following  the  WHO  and  general  GMP 
requirements. Purified diphtheria toxoid, complies with WHO (TRS 800), Ph. Eur. (Monograph 0443) 
requirements and GSK Bio specification. 
The  description  of  the  fermentation  and  purification  process  of  the  DT  and  the  corresponding  in-
process and release testing are adequate. 
Characterisation: In addition to the routine QC testing, characterisation was conducted on the purified 
DT  bulks  including  SDS  gel  electrophoresis,  isoelectric  focusing  and  other  physicochemical  tests. 
Consistent results in SDS-PAGE band pattern and other characteristics were obtained for the different 
parameters assessed.  
Impurities:  Manufacturing  impurities  are  satisfactorily  assessed  through  the  QC  release  testing 
program.  
Specification: The tests and specifications for release of the DT bulks are complying with WHO (TRS 
n°  800)  and  Ph.  Eur.  requirements  on  bulk  Diphtheria  Toxoid  (Ph.  Eur.  0443).  Analytical  methods 
have been adequately described and validated.  
Satisfactory batch analysis data demonstrative of a consistent manufacturing process and compatible 
with present specifications are provided.  
Stability: the stability of purified diphtheria toxoid at 2-8°C has been assessed in long-term, real-time 
stability  studies.  Test  methods  and  specifications  applied  are  the  same  as  those  applicable  for  QC 
release of the toxoid. 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugates 
Manufacture of the bulk conjugates 
The conjugation process consists of the following steps:  
1.  Mechanical reduction of the size and viscosity of the polysaccharides by microfluidisation for 
most of the serotypes  
2.  Conjugation  of  each  of  the  S.  pneumoniae  serotypes  polysaccharides  to  its  respective  carrier 
protein is done utilizing CDAP as chemical reagent under controlled pH 
3.  Conjugates purification by size exclusion chromatography 
4.  Sterile filtration in aseptic condition 
The conjugate bulks are stored at 2-8°C and each adsorbed separately on aluminium phosphate prior to 
formulation into the final vaccine. 
The  description  of  the  production  process  for  the  polysaccharide  conjugation  and  the  corresponding 
in-process controls and release tests are adequate. Critical process parameters have been satisfactorily 
documented. 
Synflorix 
Page 12 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Characterisation  
The purified S. pneumoniae conjugate bulks are characterised for their molecular properties by routine 
QC methods. These routine QC tests include structural analyses such as: molecular size distribution, 
total  protein  content,  total  polysaccharide  content,  and  use  of  said  contents  for  determination  of 
PS/carrier  ratio,  free  PS  content  and  free  carrier  content.  Additional  characterisation  by  biochemical 
and physicochemical methods were performed, and the overall characterization package provided for 
the conjugates is adequate.  
Impurities 
The  purity  of  each  conjugate  lot  is  assessed  through  the  QC  release  testing  program  and  the 
purification process was also shown to efficiently and consistently eliminate the conjugation reagents.  
•  Specification 
The release specifications for the active substance (S. pneumoniae conjugate bulks) include: identity, 
sterility, molecular size distribution, protein content, PS content, PS/carrier ratio, free PS content, free 
carrier content and endotoxin content.  
Analytical methods have been adequately described and validated. 
Batch analysis 
Batch  analysis  data  for  consistency  batches  used  in  10PN-PD-DiT  phase  III  clinical  trials  and  for 
commercial  batches  are  demonstrative  of  a  consistent  production  process  and  for  all  serotype 
conjugates, the results of all tests complied with the pre-set specifications.  
Container closure system 
The  closure  system  is  of  pharmaceutical  grade.  The  compatibility  between  the  conjugate  bulks  and 
primary container/closure materials is demonstrated through stability studies.  
•  Stability 
For each serotype, three conjugate batches were stored at 2-8°C and tested according to the stability 
plan.  Critical  parameters  investigated  were:  molecular  size  distribution  free  polysaccharide  content, 
mean molecular weight by MALLS and free carrier protein content.  
Finished Product  
Synflorix  vaccine  is  a  suspension  for  injection.  The  vaccine  is  formulated  on  the  basis  of 
polysaccharide content and the amount of protein is dependent on the polysaccharide-to-protein ratio 
(different between serotypes). The pneumococcal conjugates are adsorbed onto aluminium phosphate 
adjuvant. The formulation is preservative free and the volume per nominal dose is 0.5ml. 
All polysaccharides conjugated to PD are formulated at a dosage of 1µg of polysaccharide per dose 
(serotypes  1,  5,  6B,  7F,  9V,  14,  23F),  with  the  exception  of  serotype  4  at  3µg.  Serotype  19F 
conjugated to DT and serotype 18C conjugated to TT are formulated at 3μg of polysaccharide. 
The composition of Synflorix is as follows:  
1 dose (0.5 ml) contains: 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 11,2 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 41,2 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 51,2 
Synflorix 
Page 13 of 61 
1 microgram 
3 micrograms 
1 microgram 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 6B1,2 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 7F1,2 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 9V1,2 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 141,2 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 18C1,3 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 19F1,4 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide serotype 23F1,2 
1 microgram 
1 microgram 
1 microgram 
1 microgram 
3 micrograms 
3 micrograms 
1 microgram  
1 adsorbed on aluminium phosphate  
2 conjugated to protein D  
(derived from non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae) carrier protein  
3 conjugated to tetanus toxoid carrier protein 
4 conjugated to diphtheria toxoid carrier protein 
0.5 milligram Al3+ 
        9-16 micrograms 
5-10 micrograms 
3-6 micrograms 
Synflorix  vaccine  is  presented  in  neutral  glass  vials  of  3  ml  (monodose  and  2-dose  presentations) 
stopped  with  grey  butyl  rubber  stoppers  or  in  pre-filled  glass  syringes  of  1.25  ml  (monodose 
presentation)  closed  with  grey  butyl  rubber  stoppers.  The  compatibility  of  the  vaccine  with  the 
container-closure components is demonstrated through stability studies. The container-closure system 
is identical to that used for other commercial vaccines manufactured by GSK Biologicals. 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Formulation development 
The compatibility of the 10 active ingredients with each other was demonstrated in clinical trials, by 
the  satisfactory  immune  response  induced  against  vaccine  antigens.  The  compatibility  between  the 
active ingredients and the excipients is supported by the satisfactory real-time stability data generated 
at the recommended storage temperature. 
Pre-clinical  and  clinical  data  are  provided  demonstrating  the  need  for  the  vaccine  to  be  adjuvanted. 
There  is  no  clinically  relevant  concern  for  the  safety  and  reactogenicity  profile  of  the  adjuvanted 
vaccine.  
The vaccine is preservative free. Normally multidose presentations should be preserved but if the time 
allowed for use after breaching is short and well justified, a non-preserved multidose presentation can 
be  accepted.  In  this  case  a  maximum  storage  of  6  hours  under  refrigerated  conditions  has  been 
proposed, and it is acceptable.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
No  materials  of  animal  origin  are  used  in  the  production  of  the  Master  or  Working  seed  of  E.  coli 
strain B1084, or in the routine production process of protein D.  
With regard to the S. pneumoniae seeds, all seeds have been produced on culture media without any 
material of animal origin.  
Tetanus  toxoid  and  diphtheria  toxoid  are  produced  according  to  a  meat-free/preservative-free 
production process. 
The only animal derived materials used are derived from bovine milk, from which casein hydrolysate, 
casein  peptone  and  tryptone  N1  are  derived.  The  milk  is  sourced  from  healthy  animals  in  the  same 
conditions  as  milk  collected  for  human  consumption  and  therefore  complies  with  the  TSE  Note  for 
Guidance  EMEA/410/01  Rev  2.  No  viral  issues  are  present.  Non-animal  material  is  tested  to 
acceptable specifications. The material is acceptably sterilized prior to use.  
Synflorix 
Page 14 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacture of Synflorix consists of the following unit steps: 
1)  Preparation of the AlPO4 adsorbed conjugate monobulks, 
2)  Mixing  the  AlPO4  adsorbed  conjugate  monobulks  with  sodium  chloride,  water  for  injections  and 
adjustment of the Al3+ concentration, 
3) Filling into 3-ml glass vials or 1.25 ml glass syringes and closure with rubber stopper,  
4) Labelling and packaging. 
The adsorbed monobulks are stored at 2-8°C.  
Synflorix final bulk can be stored at 2-8 °C in the formulation tank before filling,  
Synflorix final container results from the aseptic filling of the final bulk under constant agitation into 
siliconised  sterile  1.25ml  syringes  (type  I  glass)  or  into  3  ml  colourless  washed,  siliconised, 
depyrogenated, sterilised glass vials (type I) by an automatic filling/stoppering machine. After filling, 
the  syringes  or  the  vials  are  automatically  closed  with  grey  butyl  rubber  stoppers.  Vials  are  then 
capped with flip-off caps. 
Process control and validation 
Consistency  of  production  has  been  validated  through  quality  control  testing  performed  on  the 
adsorbed conjugate monobulks and Synflorix lots. The compliance of adsorbed conjugate monobulks 
of  the  different  serotypes  and  Synflorix  lots  with  the  quality  control  specifications  retrospectively 
shows the consistency of the products or product intermediates thereby validating and confirming the 
robustness of each production step as well as the overall production process of Synflorix. 
Validation  of  Synflorix  production  process  is  performed  through  the  demonstration  of  process 
consistency  and  the  identification  and  validation  of  the  manufacturing  process  critical  parameters. 
Critical process parameters have been satisfactorily documented. 
Validation  of  the  vaccine  aseptic  filling  system  is  run  in  compliance  with  EU  guidelines  and  is 
performed through three media fill studies simulating  a filling operation in syringes or in vials is to 
validate the assurance of sterility for the filling room under evaluation or to demonstrate the capability 
of entire aseptic process to produce sterile vaccines in their final containers. 
In conclusion, validation of the manufacturing was satisfactory. 
•  Product Specification 
The following QC tests are performed on the adsorbed conjugate monobulks to ensure their quality: 
sterility, identity, free polysaccharide content, completeness of adsorption (% unbound conjugate) and 
aluminium content. 
In  addition  to  the  quality  control  tests  listed  above,  additional  tests  are  conducted  to  further 
characterise  the  adsorbed  conjugate  monobulks  for  their  content  and  other  physico-chemical 
properties.  
The final bulk vaccine is tested for sterility.  
Release tests for the final containers are the following: description, identity of serotype, sterility, pH, 
endotoxin content, volume, aluminium content and polysaccharide content for each serotype.  
The test for abnormal toxicity is not included in the routine release tests. This omission is justified as 
the test was performed during product development and on the clinical lots.  
Release  limits,  where  proposed,  have  been  established  using  information  from  the  testing  of 
development batches and batches used in clinical studies, as well as in accordance with the variability 
Synflorix 
Page 15 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
of the methods as assessed by their validation. The relevant guidelines (WHO TRS 927 and Ph. Eur. 
2150) have also been taken into account.  
Analytical methods have been adequately described and validated.  
During early stages of product development, the company used ELISA assays for the determination of 
the  identity  and  the  antigen  content  in  the  final  container.  At  a  later  stage,  for  clinical  phase  III 
material and commercial material, serotype-specific rate nephelometry was developed.  
The specifications set for PS content of each serotype determined by the rate nephelometry assay are 
in accordance with the Eur. Ph. for most of the serotypes.  
 The applicant has committed to further improve the method and to update the specifications in order 
to adhere to the Ph. Eur for all serotypes.  
Control of Excipients 
The  ingredients  other  than  the  active  substance  incorporated  in  Synflorix  vaccine  are:  aluminium 
phosphate, sodium chloride and water for injection.  
Quality Control of aluminium phosphate is performed according to GSK in-house procedures. 
The  sodium  chloride  and  water  for  injections  is  controlled  in  accordance  with  the  Ph  Eur.  The 
applicant’s monograph on aluminium phosphate is the same as for other products authorised through 
the centralised procedure and acceptable. 
Impurities 
No impurities are generated by the formulation or the filling process.  
Batch Analysis 
Routine quality results on 4 phase-III final bulks are given as well as routine quality results on four 1-
dose phase-III final container lots, three 2-dose vials lots and four prefilled syringes lots. These batch 
results  include  lots  used  in  the  pivotal  lot-to-lot  consistency,  non-inferiority  clinical  trial  10PN-PD-
DIT-001. The lots induced consistent immune response for each serotype. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Adsorbed conjugate monobulks: 
For each serotype, three lots of the phase-III adsorbed monobulks were stored at 2-8°C and tested at 
regular  time  intervals  for  up  to  36  months.  The  lots  were  also  tested  following  accelerated  (7days 
37°C) conditions.  
The data presented support the proposed shelf-life of 36 months for adsorbed conjugates of serotypes 
1-PD, 4-PD, 5-PD, 6B-PD, 7F-PD, 9V-PD, 14-PD, 18C-TT, 23F-PD and the proposed shelf-life of 18 
months for 19F-DT adsorbed conjugate. 
Formulated bulk: 
The Synflorix final bulk can be stored at 2 to 8 °C until filling for maximum 1 month.  
Final container (vial and syringe): 
On  the  basis  of  a  long-term,  real-time  stability  study  on  three  consistency  lots  of  each  presentation 
(vials and syringes) of finished product, a shelf life of 36 months at +2°C to +8°C is accepted.  
The  most  important  parameters  that  have  been  monitored  throughout  stability  follow-up  of  the 
Synflorix  phase  III  lots  are:  conjugate  content  by  ELISA,  PS  content  by  rate  nephelometry,  and 
completeness of adsorption.  
Other  tests  and  methods  applied  in  stability  follow-up  of  Synflorix  vaccine  final  bulk  and  final 
container  include  those  applied  for  release  testing  of  the  Phase-III  lots  and  additionally,  following 
parameters  have  also  been  assessed  at  different  time-points:  pH,  in-vivo  potency  on  mice,  and 
container closure integrity. 
Stability of the vaccine up to 36 months at 2-8°C has been demonstrated.  
Synflorix 
Page 16 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability of Synflorix vaccine in final containers (vials and syringes) has also been evaluated following 
accelerated (25°C and 37°C) stability programs. Overall, the data provided demonstrate good stability 
of Synflorix after exposure for up to 1 month at 25°C, and after exposure for 7 days at 37°C.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Synflorix is composed of the capsular polysaccharides purified from 10 serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 
14, 18C, 19F and 23F each conjugated to a carrier protein, either protein D (PD), tetanus toxoid (TT or 
T) or diphtheria toxoid (DT). 
Protein  D  derived  from  non-typeable  H.  influenzae  is  used  as  carrier  protein  for  8  out  of  the  10 
serotypes (serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14 and 23F). Tetanus toxoid and diphtheria toxoid are used as 
carrier protein for serotypes 18C and 19F, respectively. The applicant has responded satisfactorily to 
all of the major objections and questions identified during assessment of the MAA. 
Since the claim for protection against AOM caused by non-typeable H. influenzae at this stage is not 
supported by clinical data there is no need for an assay of the protein D content in the specification at 
the  level  of  the  drug  product.  The  applicant  has  provided  clarification  regarding  the  analytical 
differences seen between  manufacturing batches. These differences are  either due to methodological 
reasons  or,  when  actual  differences  are  seen,  can  be  considered  to  be  without  significance  for  the 
overall activity of the product as they do not affect the results of predictive tests.  
With regard to the rate nephelometry assay for quantification of each serotype in the final vaccine, the 
applicant  has  committed  to  further  improve  the  method  and  to  update  the  specifications  in  order  to 
adhere to the Ph. Eur for all serotypes.  
The proposed shelf life of 36 months at 2-8°C for the drug product (vials and syringes) is acceptable in 
view  of  the  fact  that  the  applicant  has  provided  full  time  data  for  both  presentations  to  support  this 
claim. 
The applicant has also committed to follow the stability of microfluidised polysaccharides for the next 
three lots of each serotype and the stability of TT and the derivatised TT and to report deviating results 
if found. 
In conclusion, information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug 
product  have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  the  tests  carried  out  indicate 
satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn 
lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in  the 
clinic. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Immunogenicity  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  guinea  pigs  and  rabbits.  These  studies  may not be 
predictive of human response, and therefore are considered as supportive data only. 
The first generation 11Pn-PD vaccine and Synflorix were compared in BALB/c mice and guinea pigs 
immunogenicity studies in co-administration with Infanrix Hexa (DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib). The vaccine 
induced  polysaccharide-specific  serum  IgG  to  all  serotypes  in  both  animal  species.  In  mice,  the 
immune  response  to  the  serotypes  18C  and  19F  was  stronger  when  conjugated  to  TT  and  DT  than 
when conjugated to PD, in line with clinical results. For the other conjugates, the immune responses 
were equal or somewhat stronger. In the guinea pig, a lower immune response was seen for serotypes 
5, 6B and 23F with the 10-valent formulation. It was stated that the guinea pig model is not predictive 
for  those  serotypes,  as  shown  by  comparison  of  previous  preclinical  experiments  with  results  from 
clinical trials. The predictivity of the animal  models for human immunogenicity is not clear and the 
Synflorix 
Page 17 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assessment of comparability for the immune response between the two formulations must be based on 
clinical data. 
The  rabbit  was  the  animal  species  used  for  the  toxicological  studies.  An  11Pn-PD-DiT  vaccine 
formulation mixed with lyophilised MenC-TT vaccine was shown to be immunogenic in female New-
Zealand white rabbits by performing anti-pneumococcal polysaccharide (serotypes 1, 3, 5, 6B, 7F, 19F 
and 23F) serological analysis in a preliminary study. Based on this, the immune response induced by 
an 11-valent phase-II vaccine formulation 11Pn-PD-DiT (3 on TT) formulation was investigated in a 
pivotal repeat-dose toxicity study in the rabbit. Serological analysis restricted to the determination of 
anti-PS6B showed the presence of circulating antibody titres against PS6B. These data support the use 
of rabbits for toxicity studies. 
To support a protection against Haemophilus influenzae AOM for Synflorix, GSK conducted a head-
to-head  comparison  of  the  passive  protective  capacity  of  human  paediatric  sera  obtained  after 
immunisation  with  Synflorix  in  Study-003  (10PN-PD-DIT-003)  and  11Pn-PD  in  POET  versus 
‘placebo’. This was performed in the juvenile otitis media chinchilla model. The passively transferred 
sera provided ∼34% protection against otitis media, and there were no significant differences between 
the  2  vaccines.  The  chinchilla  model  has  been  developed  as  a  model  for  colonization  of  the 
nasopharynx with non-typeable H. influenzae and development of otitis media. A series of experiment 
has shown the model to be reproducible and capable of showing protection by antibodies. With sera 
derived  from  the  POET  study  the  protection  in  the  chinchilla  AOM  model  was  comparable  to  the 
protection  observed  clinically.  While  the  model  indeed  is  of  importance  for  non-clinical  proof  of 
concept  during  vaccine  development,  its  utility  for  predicting  clinical  outcome  and  as  a  potential 
surrogate  for  efficacy  is  not  clear.  This  would  require  a  larger  amount  of  data  showing  correlation 
between clinical efficacy and efficacy in the chinchilla model for several different vaccine candidates. 
While  the  data  support  a  similar  protection  with  the  two  vaccine  formulations  (11Pn-PD  and 
Synflorix) they cannot replace clinical evidence. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
These studies are not required for vaccines. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
A  GLP  study  was  performed  to  assess  the  potential  effects  of  the  11Pn-PD-DiT  vaccine  on 
cardiovascular  and  respiratory  parameters  in  anaesthetised  SPF  male  Wistar  rats.    An  11-valent  S. 
pneumoniae conjugate 11Pn-PD-DiT vaccine was administered intramuscularly (IM) at a dose of 0.2 
ml/animal  in  a  group  of  4  animals  following  a  thirty  minute  stabilisation  period.  A  vehicle  control 
group (0.9% w/v saline) was run in parallel using another 4 animals. 
Cardiovascular  (blood  pressure,  heart  rate  and  ECG  (lead  II))  and  respiratory  (respiration  rate,  tidal 
volume  and  minute  volume)  parameters  were  recorded  continuously  for  a  period  of  two  hours  post 
dose. 
In one vaccine-treated animal, there was a transient (30 min) decrease in systolic, diastolic and mean 
blood pressure with concurrent ST depression in the electrocardiogram. A decrease in respiration rate 
was  also  recorded  40  minutes  post-dose.  The  latter  never  returned  to  pre-dose  values  but  indicated 
signs of recovery. 
Overall,  the  observed  effects  were  considered  to  be  incidental  and  not  treatment-related  as  these 
effects were not noted in the other 3 vaccine-treated animals. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
These studies are not required for vaccines. 
Synflorix 
Page 18 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic testing is not required for vaccines. 
Toxicology 
No  toxicology  studies  have  been  performed  with  the  final  vaccine  formulation.  This  is  acceptable 
since all components of the final vaccine were tested in one or more of the repeat-dose toxicity studies 
performed  with  similar  11-valent  formulated  vaccines  containing  higher  amounts  of  antigen,  carrier 
proteins  or  residues.  There  is  no  concern  that  the  final  formulation  would  demonstrate  toxicity  not 
observed in the performed studies. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicity  and  local  tolerance  of  the  11Pn-PD-DiT  vaccine  after  a  single  0.5  ml 
intramuscular injection was studied in New Zealand White rabbits. An important finding was a local 
inflammatory  response,  comparable  to  that  observed  in  studies  with  vaccine  containing  aluminium-
based adjuvants. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
In  a  repeat-dose  toxicity  study,  rabbits  were  given  five  0.5  ml  doses,  two  weeks  apart.  The  tested 
vaccines  were  the  11Pn-PD-DiT  vaccine,  the  11Pn-PD  vaccine  used  in  the  clinical  POET  trial,  and 
Infanrix Hexa (DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hibads). A necrotizing mixed inflammatory cell reaction was observed 
on  day  3  after  the  fifth  inoculation  with  all  three  vaccine  formulation.  On  day  30  after  the  fifth 
inoculation, the incidence of this inflammatory reaction had decreased. A second repeat-dose toxicity 
study  with  the  four  injections  of  the  11Pn-PD  formulation  in  rabbits  demonstrated  the  same  type  of 
local inflammatory reaction. This reaction was reversible with no necrosis observed on day 84/85 after 
the last inoculation. 
•  Genotoxicity 
No studies on genotoxicity have been performed. Such studies are not required for vaccines. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No studies on carcinogenicity have been performed. Such studies are not required for vaccines. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
No  studies  on  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  have  been  performed.  This  vaccine  is  not 
intended for women of child-bearing potential and therefore such studies are not required. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local  tolerance  was  assessed  as  part  of  the  single  dose  and  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  presented 
above. Changes associated with local inflammatory reactions were found to be reversible over time.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
Impurities 
Specific toxicology studies were reported demonstrating that the residual amounts of process-specific 
impurities are of no toxicological concern.  
Synflorix 
Page 19 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  vaccine  is  composed  of  polysaccharides  conjugated  to  carrier  proteins.  No  toxicity  to  the 
environment is expected for these components. The excipient aluminium phosphate (0.5 mg/dose) was 
submitted  to  a  Phase  I  environmental  risk  assessment,  resulting  in  a  Predicted  Environment 
Concentration of 2.5 · 10-5 μg/l. The PEC value is below the threshold level of 10-2 μg/l. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
No  clinical  study  has  evaluated  the  efficacy  of  Synflorix  against  IPD.  Immunogenicity,  safety  and 
clinical consistency of Synflorix have been evaluated in the target population. The only efficacy study, 
the Pneumococcal Otitis Efficacy Trial (POET) was performed with an 11-valent vaccine formulation 
(11Pn-PD).  As  recommended  by  WHO,  the  claim  for  efficacy  of  Synflorix  against  IPD  is  based  on 
immunological  comparisons  with  the  licensed  7-valent  pneumococcal  CRM197  conjugate  vaccine 
(Prevenar) or the related 11Pn-PD vaccine.  
Non-inferiority of the immune response compared  with Prevenar was specifically evaluated. Studies 
were designed to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of the vaccine when used for primary, catch-
up and booster vaccination; to assess persistence of  the immune response in the second year of life; 
and  to  evaluate  the  presence  of  immune  memory  through  administration  of  a  plain  polysaccharide 
vaccine  to  Synflorix-primed  subjects.  Additionally,  co-administration  of  Synflorix  with  commonly 
administered  commercially  available  paediatric  vaccines  was  evaluated,  as  well  as  the  impact  of 
prophylactic  anti-pyretic  medication,  and  booster  inter-changeability  (i.e.,  booster  vaccination  of 
Synflorix in Prevenar-primed subjects).  
A total of 14 studies (10PN-PD-DIT-001, -002, -003, -004, -005, -007, -008, -010, -011, -012, -013, -
014,  -017  and  -022)  conducted  with  Synflorix  and  2  studies  [Undeca-Pn-010  (POET)  and  its 
extension study Undeca-Pn-037] conducted with the 11Pn-PD formulation provide data to support the 
submission. The study design and main objectives of studies are described in the tables 1-4 below as 
well as in the section describing the individual study.   
Table  1:  Study  design  and  main  objectives  of  studies  conducted  with  Synflorix  evaluating  PRIMARY 
vaccination groups (Total vaccinated cohort for safety) 
Study number  Design  
Main study objectives 
Age 
Vaccine 
schedule 
Study vaccine + 
Co-administered vaccines 
10PN-PD-DIT-
001 
Double-blind (for non-inferiority), randomized, 
controlled 
Healthy 
infants 
Synflorix (3 lots) + 
Infanrix hexa* 
Number of 
subjects 
Per 
group 
1235 
Total 
1650 
(Finland, 
France, Poland) 
Phase III 
10PN-PD-DIT-
002 * 
(Denmark, 
Norway, 
Synflorix 
Primary objectives: 
Lot-to-lot consistency 
Immunological non-inferiority of Synflorix 
versus Prevenar for at least 7 of the 
pneumococcal serotypes 
Key secondary objectives: 
- Non-inferiority versus Prevenar in terms of 
post-immunization febrile reactions with rectal 
temperature > 39°C 
- Reactogenicity of Synflorix when co-
administered with DTPa-combined vaccines 
- Immunogenicity of DTPa-combined vaccines 
when co-administered with Synflorix 
Open, randomized 
Primary objective: 
Assessment of the post-dose 2 immune 
response elicited by Synflorix co-administered 
6 to 12 
weeks 
2-3-4 
months 
Prevenar + Infanrix hexa* 
(DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib) 
415 
* except for dose 2 in 
France (co-ad with Infanrix 
IPV/Hib) 
Healthy 
infants 
8-16 weeks 
Synflorix at 2-4-11 months 
+ Infanrix hexa or Infanrix 
IPV/Hib at 2-4-11 months  
175 
351 
2-4-11 
Synflorix at 2-3-4-11 
Page 20 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Slovenia, 
Sweden) 
Phase IIIa 
10PN-PD-DIT-
003  
(Germany) 
Phase IIIa 
10PN-PD-DIT-
005 
(Chile) 
Phase II 
 10PN-PD-
DIT-010 
(Czech 
Republic) 
Phase IIIb 
10PN-PD-DIT-
011 ** 
(Germany, 
Poland, Spain) 
Phase IIIb 
Synflorix 
with DTPa-combined vaccines 
Key secondary objectives: 
Assessment of post-dose 3 primary immune 
response to Synflorix  
Assessment of persistence of pneumococcal 
antibodies prior to the booster dose at 11 
months of age 
Assessment of immune response elicited by a 
booster dose at 11 months of age  following 2 
or 3 dose primary vaccination 
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix 
Single-blind, randomized, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Assessment of the immunogenicity of 
Synflorix  
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix  
Immunogenicity of Infanrix hexa when co-
administered with Synflorix 
Observer-blind, randomized, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Reactogenicity of Synflorix when co-
administered with Infanrix hexa in terms of 
occurrence of grade 3 adverse events (solicited 
and unsolicited) 
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of 
Synflorix when co-administered with Infanrix 
hexa 
Immune response to PD following primary 
course of Synflorix when co-administered with 
Infanrix hexa 
Open, randomized, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Determination of the percentage reduction in 
febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38.0°C) 
when prophylactic antipyretic treatment is 
administered compared to no prophylactic 
antipyretic treatment after primary vaccination 
with Synflorix  
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix  
Immunogenicity of Synflorix when co-
administered with Infanrix hexa vaccine 
Immunogenicity of the Rotarix vaccine co-
administered at 3-4 months of age with 
Synflorix 
Comparison of the immune response induced 
by Synflorix  to the historical immunogenicity 
data obtained with the 11Pn-PD vaccine 
formulation in study Undeca-Pn-010 (POET), 
1 month after primary vaccination 
Open, randomized, controlled 
months 
2-3-4-11 
months 
months + Infanrix hexa or 
Infanrix IPV/Hib at 2-4-11 
months 
176 
Healthy 
infants 
8 to 16 
weeks 
2-3-4 
months 
Healthy 
infants 
6 to 12 
weeks 
2-4-6 
months 
Healthy 
infants 
9 to 16 
weeks 
3-4-5 
months 
Synflorix + Infanrix hexa 
70 
134 
Prevenar + Infanrix hexa 
64 
Synflorix + Infanrix hexa 
119 
240 
Havrix + Infanrix hexa 
121 
Synflorix + Infanrix hexa + 
Rotarix with prophylactic 
antipyretic medication 
226 
459 
Synflorix + Infanrix hexa + 
Rotarix without 
prophylactic antipyretic 
medication 
233 
Healthy 
infants 
Synflorix + Infanrix hexa + 
Meningitec 
385 
1548 
Primary objective: Non-inferiority of Synflorix 
versus Prevenar, both co-administered with 
DTPa-combined and Hib-MenC vaccines, in 
terms of post-immunization febrile reactions 
with rectal temperature >39.0°C 
Key secondary objectives: 
Immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity of 
Synflorix  
Immunogenicity post dose 2 of Hib-MenC 
conjugate when co-administered with Synflorix 
or Prevenar and DTPa-HBV-IPV 
Immunogenicity post dose 3 of Hib-MenC and 
DTPa-HBV-IPV vaccines when co-
6 to 16 
weeks 
2-4-6 
months* 
*Meningitec 
and 
NeisVac-C: 
were 
administered 
at 2 and 4 
months 
Page 21 of 61 
Synflorix + Infanrix hexa + 
NeisVac-C 
Synflorix + DTPa- HBV-
IPV + Hib-MenC 
Prevenar + DTPa- HBV-
IPV + Hib-MenC 
387 
386 
390 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10PN-PD-DIT-
012  
(Philippines, 
Poland) 
administered with Synflorix or Prevenar 
Observer blind, randomized, controlled  
Primary objective: 
Non-inferiority versus Prevenar in terms of 
post-immunization febrile reactions with rectal 
temperature > 39°C 
Healthy 
infants 
Synflorix + DTPw-
HBV/Hib + OPV 
300 
806 
Prevenar + DTPw-
HBV/Hib + OPV 
100 
6 to 12 
weeks  
6-10-14 
weeks 
103 
303 
(Finland) 
Phase IIIb 
2-4-6 
months 
Synflorix + DTPw-
HBV/Hib + IPV 
10PN-PD-DIT-
013*** 
Prevenar + DTPw-
HBV/Hib + IPV 
Key secondary objectives 
Immunogenicity post dose 3 of Synflorix when 
co-administered with DTPw-HBV/Hib and 
OPV or IPV vaccines. 
Immunogenicity post dose 3 DTPw-HBV/Hib 
and OPV or IPV vaccines when co-
administered with Synflorix  
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix when 
co-administered with DTPw-HBV/Hib and 
OPV or IPV vaccines. 
Open, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Immunogenicity of Synflorix when given as a 
catch-up immunization in children older than 7 
months 
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix when 
given as a catch-up immunization 
Immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity of 
3-dose primary course of Infanrix IPV/Hib co-
administered with Synflorix 
TOTAL number of subjects in primary total vaccinated cohort 
TOTAL number of subjects in total vaccinated cohort primed with Synflorix 
* Study 10PN-PD-DIT-002 evaluated both primary and booster vaccination: numbers of subjects are the numbers evaluated for the primary 
vaccination phase 
** For Study 10PN-PD-DIT-011 24 subjects enrolled in study centre 28251 were excluded from the Total vaccinated cohort due to GCP 
compliance issues and consequence of an audit 
*** Study 10PN-PD-DIT-013 evaluated primary, booster and catch-up vaccination: numbers of subjects is the number evaluated in the primary 
vaccination phase below 6 months of age 
3 primary doses and 1 dose 
in second year of life of 
Synflorix+ Infanrix 
IPV/Hib  
Infants and 
toddlers 
3, 4, 5 
months 
< 6 months 
Phase IIIb 
150 
150 
5338 
4145 
Table  2:  Study  design  and  main  objectives  of  studies  conducted  with  Synflorix  evaluating  BOOSTER 
vaccination groups (Total vaccinated cohort for safety) 
Study number  Design  
Main study objectives 
10PN-PD-DIT-
002* 
Open, randomized 
(Denmark, 
Norway, 
Slovenia, 
Sweden) 
Phase IIIa 
10PN-PD-DIT-
004** 
(Germany) 
(NB: 11-valent 
vaccine- Only 
included in the 
safety 
assessment) 
Synflorix 
Primary objective: 
Assessment of the post-dose 2 immune 
response elicited by Synflorix co-administered 
with DTPa-combined vaccines 
Key secondary objectives: 
Assessment of post-dose 3 primary immune 
response to Synflorix  
Assessment of persistence of pneumococcal 
antibodies prior to the booster dose at 11 
months of age 
Assessment of immune response elicited by a 
booster dose at 11 months of age  following 2 
or 3 dose primary vaccination 
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix 
Open 
Primary objective: 
Immunological memory following priming with 
either 3μg 18C-TT 11Pn-PD-DiT, 11Pn-PD or 
Prevenar through administration of a single 
dose of unconjugated 23-valent pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine 
Immune response after a booster dose of 
Synflorix following primary vaccination with 
Page 22 of 61 
Age 
Vaccine 
schedule 
Healthy 
infants 
(2-4)11 
months 
(2-3-4)11 
months 
Study vaccine + 
Co-administered 
vaccines 
2-dose primed: Synflorix 
+ Infanrix hexa or 
Infanrix IPV/Hib 
Number of 
subjects 
Per 
group 
174 
345 
Total 
3-dose primed: Synflorix 
+ Infanrix hexa or 
Infanrix IPV/Hib 
171 
Toddlers 
11-18 
months 
11Pn-PD, 11Pn-PD-DiT 
or Prevenar primed: 
Pneumovax + Infanrix 
hexa 
150 
547 
11Pn-PD-DiT primed: 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
hexa 
397 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase II 
10PN-PD-DIT-
007 
(BST-001) 
(Finland, 
France, Poland) 
Phase IIIa 
10PN-PD-
DIT-008*** 
(BST-003) 
(Germany) 
Phase IIIa 
10PN-PD-
DIT-013****  
(Finland) 
Phase IIIb 
10PN-PD-
DIT-014 
(Czech 
Republic) 
Phase IIIb 
10PN-PD-
Synflorix 
one of 8 different 11Pn-PD-DiT vaccine 
formulations 
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix vaccine 
co-administered with Infanrix hexa as a booster 
dose 
Persistence of antibodies induced by the 
different pneumococcal conjugate vaccines 7-
14 months after priming 
Single-blind, partially randomized, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Non-inferiority of a booster dose of Synflorix 
versus Prevenar, when co-administered with 
Infanrix hexa, in terms of post-immunization 
febrile reactions with rectal temperature 
>39.0°C 
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of a 
booster dose of Synflorix when co-administered 
with Infanrix hexa vaccine 
Immunogenicity of a booster dose of Synflorix 
following 3-dose primary vaccination with 
Prevenar (interchangeability) 
Persistence of pneumococcal antibodies 8 to 14 
months after completion of the 3-dose primary 
vaccination course 
Open, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Immunological memory, following 3-dose 
primary vaccination with either Synflorix or 
Prevenar, through administration of a single 
dose of unconjugated 23-valent pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine 
Key secondary objective: 
Persistence of pneumococcal antibodies 
induced by Synflorix or Prevenar 7 to 10 
months after completion of the 3-dose primary 
course 
Open, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Immunogenicity of Synflorix when given as a 
catch-up immunization in children older than 7 
months 
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix when 
given as a catch-up immunization 
Immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity of 3-
dose primary course of Infanrix IPV/Hib co-
administered with Synflorix 
Open, randomized, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Determination of the percentage reduction in 
febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38.0°C) 
when prophylactic antipyretic treatment is 
administered compared to no prophylactic 
antipyretic treatment after booster vaccination 
with Synflorix 
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of 
booster dose of Synflorix co-administered with 
Infanrix hexa. 
Persistence of antibodies 7-10 months after 
completion of the three-dose primary 
vaccination course 
Persistence of antibodies 12-15 months after the 
booster dose 
Open, randomized, controlled 
Toddlers 
12-18months 
Synflorix primed: 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
hexa 
737 
1112 
92 
283 
Prevenar primed: 
Prevenar + Infanrix hexa 
Prevenar primed: 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
hexa 
Toddlers 
11-14 
months 
Synflorix primed : 
Pneumovax + Infanrix 
hexa 
60 
113 
Prevenar primed : 
Pneumovax + Infanrix 
hexa 
53 
Infants and 
toddlers 
12 to 15 
months 
Synflorix+ Infanrix 
IPV/Hib (3 dose 
primed) 
Synflorix+ Infanrix 
IPV/Hib (2 dose catch-
up) 
145 
145 
145 
145 
Toddlers 
12-15 
months 
178 
414 
27 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
hexa + prophylactic 
antipyretic medication 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
hexa without 
prophylactic antipyretic 
medication (received 
prophylactic antipyretic 
medication during 
primary vaccination) 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
hexa without 
prophylactic antipyretic 
medication 
209 
Toddlers 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
359 
1437 
Page 23 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIT-017 
(Germany, 
Poland, Spain) 
Phase IIIb 
10PN-PD-
DIT-022 † 
(BST-001) 
(Finland) 
Phase IIIa 
11 to 18 
months 
Toddlers 
12-14  
months,  
14-16 
months 
Primary objective: 
Non-inferiority of Synflorix versus Prevenar, 
both co-administered with DTPa-combined and 
Hib-MenC vaccines, in terms of post-booster 
febrile reactions with rectal temperature 
>39.0°C 
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of 
booster dose of Synflorix co-administered with 
DTPa-combined and MenC or Hib-MenC 
vaccines. 
Persistence of antibodies 5-12 months after 
completion of the three-dose primary 
vaccination course Hib-MenC vaccines. 
Immunogenicity of a booster dose of Hib MenC 
conjugate vaccine when co-administered with 
Synflorix or Prevenar and DTPa- combined 
vaccines. 
Open, randomized, controlled 
Primary objective: 
Incidence of post-immunization rectal 
temperature >39.0°C following a booster dose 
of Synflorix when co-administered with a first 
dose of MMRV vaccine 
Key secondary objectives: 
Safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of a 
booster dose of Synflorix co-administered with 
MMRV vaccine 
Persistence of antibodies 8 - 10 months after 
completion of the 3-dose primary course 
Safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of 
MMRV when co-administered with Synflorix 
hexa or DTPa-
IPV/Hib*+ Meningitec 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
hexa or DTPa-IPV/Hib 
* + NeisVac-C 
Synflorix + DTPa- 
HBV-IPV or DTPa-
IPV*+ Hib-MenC 
Prevenar + DTPa- 
HBV-IPV or DTPa-
IPV* + Hib-MenC 
* for Spain 
363 
358 
357 
Synflorix primed :  visit 
1: Synflorix + MMRV ; 
visit 2 : MMRV + 
Infanrix hexa 
Synflorix primed : visit 
1: MMRV + Infanrix 
hexa; visit 2: Synflorix 
+ MMRV  
Synflorix primed : 
Synflorix + Infanrix 
hexa 
110 
324 
100 
114 
TOTAL number of subjects in Booster Total vaccinated cohort 
TOTAL number of subjects in Booster total vaccinated cohort receiving Synflorix 
* Study 10PN-PD-DIT-002 evaluated both primary and booster vaccination: numbers of subjects are the numbers evaluated for the booster 
vaccination phase 
** Study 10PN-PD-DIT-004 evaluated a booster dose of Synflorix after primary course of 8 different 11-valent vaccine formulations 
*** Study 10PN-PD-DIT-008 evaluated immune memory with a dose of Pneumovax after primary vaccination with Synflorix 
**** Study 10PN-PD-DIT-013 evaluated primary, booster and catch-up vaccination: numbers of subjects are the number evaluated in the booster 
phase below 6 months of age and 7-11 months of age groups. 
† Study 10PN-PD-DIT-022 included two groups that received two doses of vaccines and one group that received one dose of vaccine: numbers 
of subjects are the numbers for the dose that included Synflorix.  
4582 
3870 
Table  3:  Study  design  and  main  objectives  of  studies  conducted  with  Synflorix  evaluating  CATCH-UP 
vaccination groups (Total vaccinated cohort for safety) 
Study number  Design  
Main study objectives 
10PN-PD-DIT-
013 
Open, controlled 
(Finland) 
Phase IIIb 
Primary objective: 
Immunogenicity of Synflorix when given as a 
catch-up immunization in children older than 7 
months 
Key secondary objective: 
Safety and reactogenicity of Synflorix when 
given as a catch-up immunization 
Immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity of 3-
dose primary course of Infanrix IPV/Hib co-
administered with Synflorix 
Number of 
subjects 
Per 
group 
150 
450 
Total 
Age 
Vaccine 
schedule 
Study vaccine + 
Co-administered 
vaccines 
Infants and 
toddlers 
7-11 months  
12-23 
months 
≥ 24 months 
catch-up 
schedules 
7-11 months: 
2 doses Synflorix 
(interval of 4 weeks) + 1 
dose in second year of 
life 
12-23 months: 
2 doses Synflorix 
(interval of 8 weeks) 
≥ 24 months: 
1 dose Synflorix 
150 
150 
TOTAL number of subjects in Catch-up Total vaccinated cohort / ATP cohort for immunogenicity 
450 
Synflorix 
Page 24 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  4:  Study  design  and  main  objectives  of  studies  conducted  with  previous  11-valent  vaccine 
formulations SUPPORTIVE for the claimed indication and Synflorix formulation and number of subjects 
vaccinated 
Study number  Design  
Main study objectives 
Age 
Vaccine 
schedule 
Study vaccine + 
Co-administered 
vaccines 
Double blind, randomized, controlled 
Infants 
Number of 
subjects 
Per 
group 
2489 
Total 
4968 
11Pn-PD +  DTPa-HBV-
IPV/Hib 
3-4-5  and 
12-15 
months 
HAV + DTPa-HBV-
IPV/Hib 
2479 
Toddlers 
3-4 years 
11Pn-PD vaccinated: 
Pneumo 23 
51 
100 
HAV vaccinated: 
Pneumo 23 
49 
Undeca-Pn-
010 POET 
(Czech & 
Slovak 
Republics) 
Phase III 
Undeca-Pn-
037 
(Czech 
Republic) 
Phase III 
Primary objective: 
Efficacy of the 11Pn-PD vaccine in preventing 
acute otitis media (AOM) caused by vaccine 
pneumococcal serotypes in fully vaccinated 
children less than 2 years of age 
Key secondary objectives: 
Efficacy of the 11Pn-PD vaccine in preventing 
AOM caused by NTHi in fully vaccinated 
children less than 2 years of age 
Impact of the 11Pn-PD vaccine on naso-
pharyngeal carriage of S. pneumoniae and H. 
influenzae 
Immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity of 
the 11Pn-PD vaccine 
Open 
Primary objective: 
Immune memory induced by the full four dose 
vaccination schedule of the 11Pn-PD vaccine 
through administration of a single dose of 
unconjugated 23-valent pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine 
Secondary objective: 
Persistence of antibodies induced by the full 
four dose vaccination schedule of the 11Pn-PD 
vaccine 
Safety  data  from  27  clinical  trials  conducted  with  different  11-valent  vaccine  formulations  were 
submitted to support the safety profile of the candidate vaccine.  
Ongoing clinical studies 
Trials are ongoing including a Phase III study (COMPAS study) in Latin America evaluating, as co-
primary objectives, the protective efficacy of Synflorix against pneumonia and AOM.  
GCP 
According  to  the  Applicant,  each  clinical  trial  was  performed  in  compliance  with  the  Good  Clinical 
Practice guidelines in operation at the time of initiation of each study, and the Declaration of Helsinki 
and its amendments were respected.  
Pharmacokinetics 
In  accordance  with  the  note  for  guidance  on  clinical  evaluation  of  new  vaccines,  pharmacokinetic 
studies were not performed (CPMP/EWP/463/97).  
Pharmacodynamics 
In relation to vaccines, pharmacodynamic studies are essentially compromised of the immunogenicity 
studies that characterise the immune response to vaccines. The detailed characterisation of the 
immunological response is discussed below. 
Synflorix 
Page 25 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and Immunogenicity 
Assays 
Serological assays  
The serological methods used for assessing vaccine induced immune responses included an in-house 
22F-inhibition  ELISA  for  measurement  of  total  anti-pneumococcal  IgG  concentrations  and  an  in-
house opsonophagocytic (OPA) assay for measurement of functional antibody response.  
ELISA  
The  ELISA  assay  is  a  third  generation  ELISA  differing  from  the  WHO  reference  ELISA  by  a  pre-
adsorption step with 22F polysaccharide, by the use of GSK purified polysaccharide for coating and 
the  use  of  monoclonal  anti-human  mouse  IgG  antibody  as  secondary  antibody.  All  these  measures 
were taken to increase the specificity of the ELISA. This assay was compared to the WHO reference 
ELISA in three studies.  In these bridging experiments an antibody concentration of 0.2 µg/ml in the 
GSK third generation ELISA was shown to be equivalent to the 0.35 µg/ml WHO reference threshold.  
OPA  
The  functionality  of  anti-pneumococcal  polysaccharide  antibodies  was  evaluated  using  serotype-
specific  opsonophagocytic  activity  (OPA)  assays.  S.  pneumoniae  opsonophagocytic  activity  was 
measured  by  a  killing-assay  using  a  HL60  cell  line  based  on  the  reference  CDC  assay.  Baby  rabbit 
complement  was  used  as  the  source  of  complement.  Each  of  the  serotype-specific  assays  was 
validated, There are currently no standardised OPA assays available. The titre is the dilution at which 
50% of killing occurs, normalised using an adjustment factor. Cut-off used for seropositivity was an 
opsonic titre of 8. 
Total  IgG  antibodies  against  the  non-lipidated  form  of  protein  D  of  Haemophilus  influenzae  was 
measured by an ELISA developed and validated by the applicant.  
The  methods,  cut-offs  and  approach  for  assessment  of  the  immune  response  to  co-administered 
vaccine antigens were the same as those employed during the clinical development of the applicant´s 
licensed vaccines. 
Immunogenicity endpoints  
Vaccine  serotype  total  anti-pneumococcal  IgG  concentrations  were  measured  in  the  majority  of 
subjects.  Total  IgG  antibodies  against  cross-reactive  serotypes  6A  and  19A  were  also  measured. 
Functional antibodies were measured by opsonophagocytic (OPA) assay in all subjects with sufficient 
serum  and  in  some  studies  in  a  subset  of  25%-50%  of  the  subjects  selected  through  a  sub-
randomisation process. Overall, OPA was evaluated on serum from a total of 1510 and 693 subjects 
following primary and booster vaccination with Synflorix, respectively. 
In all primary, catch-up and booster vaccination studies, the following immunogenicity endpoints were 
used to evaluate the Synflorix response: 
•  Antibody concentrations against serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F and 23F and 
against protein D 
•  Percentage  of  subjects  having  vaccine  serotype  (+  6A  and  19A)  antibody  concentrations  ≥ 
0.20 μg/ml  
•  Opsonophagocytic activity against vaccine serotypes and vaccine related serotypes 6A and 19A 
•  Seropositivity status, defined as ELISA antibody concentrations ≥ 0.05 μg/ml, opsonophagocytic 
activity ≥ 1: 8, anti-PD antibody concentrations ≥ 100 EL.U/ml. 
Synflorix 
Page 26 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on methods and endpoints 
The  antibody  threshold  0.20  µg/ml  obtained  with  the  22F-ELISA  was  further  justified  during  the 
procedure by provision of a new bridging study to the WHO reference ELISA using post-primary sera 
from children vaccinated with Prevenar and the clarification that the 89-SF reference serum was not 
absorbed  with  22F  PS.  The  impact  on  the  22F-ELISA  assay  of  the  pre-adsorption  with  22F 
polysaccharide,  the  purified  coating  polysaccharides  and  the  monoclonal  antihuman  mouse  IgG 
antibody were addressed. 
Preliminary results from a small inter-laboratory OPA study, submitted during the procedure, showed 
that  the  agreement  between  five  laboratories,  including  the  GSK  assay,  was  generally  good.  The 
exception was serotype 9V for which geometric mean titres (GMTs) were overestimated in the GSK 
OPA  assay.  The  Company  has  committed  to  investigate  this  overestimation,  to  optimise  the  OPA 
assay  and  to  provide  the  CHMP  with  annual  reports  of  the  progress  of  the  WHO  standardisation  of 
OPA.  
The OPA assay that measures functional immune response has an important role in the assessment of 
new pneumococcal vaccines. The OPA data confirms that the antibody response measured by ELISA 
is  functional.  According  to  the  (WHO/Health  Canada  Consultation  on  Serological  Criteria  for 
Evaluation and Licensing of New Pneumococcal Vaccines, 7-8 July 2008, Ottawa, Canada) the OPA  
is  considered  less  precise  than  the  ELISA  in  the  absence  of  an  internal  assay  standard.  So  far  no 
reliable  protective  threshold  titre  for  the  OPA  has  been  established.  The  interpretation  of  OPA  data 
with  regard  to  predicting  protective  efficacy  is  therefore  unclear.  The  WHO  TRS  127  states  that 
ELISA antibody concentrations in the range of 0.20-0.35 µg/ml correlated with OPA titres 1:8, which 
correlated with protective efficacy for some serotypes. Therefore, the WHO recommends that at least 
an  assessment  of  subjects  reaching  this  cut-off  should  be  performed  which  could  be  used  for 
comparison between vaccines. Accordingly, the applicant presented the results of the clinical studies 
as the proportion of subjects achieving an OPA titre >1:8. In addition, this threshold was employed for 
exploring serotype-specific correlations between OPA and ELISA.  
The  correlation  coefficients  between  ELISA  and  OPA  assays  for  the  7  Prevenar  serotypes  in  the 
candidate  vaccine  ranged  from  0.79  (for  serotype  19F)  to  0.95  (for  serotype  4)  indicating  a  good 
correlation between the assays. For serotype 1, a less good correlation (0.69) was shown, whereas it 
was acceptable for serotype 5 (0.86). The lower correlation coefficient for serotype 1 is not possible to 
interpret at the current stage, effectiveness data must be awaited. For serotype 14, OPA activity was 
observed  in  the  absence  of  ELISA  antibodies,  especially  in  non-immunized  subjects,  whereas  OPA 
seropositivity while ELISA seronegative was observed for other serotypes, in particular for serotype 
7F. Discrepancies in the correlation between assays might partly be due to the IgM response measured 
by the OPA, which, was supported by limited data using an exploratory IgM ELISA.  
•  Dose response studies 
No  data  on  formal  dose  response  studies  for  Synflorix  were  submitted.  It  is  mentioned  in  the  study 
protocols that early preliminary studies showed that a tetravalent pneumococcal protein D conjugate 
vaccine  (serotypes  6B,  14,  19F  and  23F)  was  safe  in  adults,  toddlers  and  infants.  Based  on  these 
results  seven  additional  serotypes  (1,  3,  5,  7F,  9V  and  18C)  were  incorporated  into  an  11-valent 
vaccine (11Pn-PD formulation). 
Based on the results of the POET trial (described below), the Company made changes to the 11Pn-PD 
vaccine to improve its immunogenicity. These changes included the use of protein carriers other than 
protein D, various dosages of conjugates, and the optimization of the production process, i.e. tetanus 
toxoid (T) and diphtheria (Di) toxoid were evaluated as protein carrier for some serotypes; dosage per 
conjugated  serotype  has  been  optimised;  the  production  process  consisted  in  the  use  of  sized 
polysaccharides,  instead  of  the  use  of  native  polysaccharides  (PS)  before  conjugation,  the  use  of  an 
increased  protein  D/polysaccharide  ratio  and  the  reduction  of  the  free  polysaccharide  content.  In 
Synflorix 
Page 27 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
addition,  serotype  3  was  removed  from  the  final  vaccine  formulation  based  on  the  failure  to  show 
protective  efficacy  against  AOM  caused  by  serotype  3  (see  below).  There  was  also  no  evidence  of 
induction of immune memory against serotype 3.  
The vaccine  composition of Synflorix was based  on the results of 4 phase II studies (11Pn-PD&Di-
001, 11Pn-PD&Di-007, 11PN-PD-DIT-001 and -002) in which different 11Pn-PD&Di and 11Pn-PD-
DiT  formulations  were  tested.  In  total  3000  infants  vaccinated  according  to  the  3-dose  primary 
vaccination schedule were evaluated in these trials.  
•  Main studies 
Efficacy  of  the  11Pn-PD  vaccine  against  AOM  was  evaluated  with  the  related  11-valent  PD- 
conjugated  vaccine  (11Pn-PD)  in  a  double-blind,  randomized  Pneumococcal  Otitis  Efficacy  Trial 
(POET).  
Results from 11 completed clinical trials (9 phase III and 2 phase II), in addition to study 10PN-PD-
DIT-001, supported the immunogenicity of Synflorix. These studies evaluated the following issues: 
3-dose primary vaccination followed by a booster dose in the second year of life: 
2-3-4 months (studies 10PN-PD-DIT-001, -002 and -003); 
3-4-5 months (studies 10PN-PD-DIT-010 and -013); 
2-4-6 months (studies 10PN-PD-DIT-005, -011 and -012);  
6-10-14 weeks (study 10PN-PD-DIT-012)  
2-dose primary vaccination followed by a booster dose at 11 months of age: 
2-4 (-11) (study 10PN-PD-DIT-002) 
Catch-up immunisation schedules (study 10PN-PD-DIT-013) 
Booster vaccination (studies 10PN-PD-DIT-002, -007,  -013, -014, -017 and -022)  
Immune memory (study 10PN-PD-DIT-008) 
Co-administered vaccines  
Effect of prophylactic use of paracetamol (studies 10PN-PD-DIT-010 and -014)  
METHODS (GENERAL) 
The individual study design and main objectives of studies are described in the summary tables 1-4 
above and under the individual section of the studies below in this report. 
All primary vaccination studies were controlled and all were randomised except study 10PN-PD-DIT-
013. Most of the studies were conducted either in a single-blind or an open design due to differences 
in  the  appearance/presentation  of  the  study  vaccines  and/or  difference  in  administration  schedules 
between study groups. Study 10PN-PD-DIT-001 (lot-to-lot consistency) , -005 and -012 were double- 
or  observer-blind,  studies  10PN-PD-DIT-001  (non-inferiority),  -003  and  -007  were  single-blind, 
whereas 10PN-PD-DIT-002,  -008, -010, -011, -013, -014, -017 and -022 were open studies.  
The licenced 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, Prevenar, was used as control vaccine in six 
studies; in 10PN-PD-DIT-001 to demonstrate non-inferiority and as control group in primary studies 
10PN-PD-DIT-003,  -011  and  -012  and  in  booster  studies  10PN-PD-DIT-007  and  -017.  Hepatitis  A 
vaccine  (Havrix)  was  used  as  a  control  vaccine  in  study  10PN-PD-DIT-005.  Immune  memory  was 
evaluated by use of a single dose of 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide (23vPS) vaccine in study 
10PN-PD-DIT-008. 
The  co-administration  of  Synflorix  was  evaluated  with  different  paediatric  vaccines  including 
monovalent  or  combination  vaccines  [including  DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib]:  diphtheria-tetanus,  acellular 
pertussis  vaccine  (DTPa),  hepatitis  B  vaccine  (HBV),  inactivated  polio  vaccine  (IPV),  Haemophilus 
influenzae  type  b  vaccine  (Hib),  measles-mumps-rubella  vaccine  (MMR),  varicella  (V)  vaccine, 
Synflorix 
Page 28 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
meningococcal  serogroup  C  conjugate  vaccine,  and  rotavirus  vaccine  (Rotarix).  Co-administration 
with DTPw and OPV were evaluated in study 012. 
Primary immunisation in all studies started between 6 and 16 weeks of age with an interval between 
doses ranging from 4 to 12 weeks. Catch-up vaccination were performed in children aged >6 months 
up to 5 years. All studies were conducted in healthy infants and toddlers.  
The clinical studies covered most of the primary immunisation schedules used in Europe and included 
an  appreciable  number  of  subjects  receiving  a  booster  dose.  The  EPI-schedule  (6-10-14  weeks)  was 
evaluated in study 10PN-PD-DIT-012.  
Blood  samples  for  the  assessment  of  the  immune  response  were  taken  prior  to  vaccination  and  one 
month after the last dose in all the primary and catch-up vaccination studies, except in studies 10PN-
PD-DIT-002,  -011,  and  -013  (<  6  month  and  7-11  month  groups)  in  which  pre-vaccination  samples 
were  not  taken.  In  booster  studies  and  in  studies  evaluating  antibody  persistence  and/or  immune 
memory  induced  by  primary  vaccination,  a  blood  sample  was  taken  before  and  30  days  after  the 
booster  dose or  the  plain polysaccharide  challenge,  except  in  study  10PN-PD-DIT-022  in which  the 
post-booster sample was taken 42-56 days after the booster dose. 
In all studies except study 008, immunogenicity of the co-administered vaccines was evaluated as part 
of the secondary endpoints. For these antigens there was protocol-defined prioritisation for testing in 
case of limited volumes. 
Studies  were  conducted  in  10  countries  in  Europe  (Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Finland,  France, 
Germany,  Norway,  Poland,  Slovakia,  Spain,  and  Sweden)  and  in  Chile  and  in  the  Philippines.  The 
majority (>90%) of subjects who participated in the clinical studies were White, except for studies 005 
(Chile)  and  012  (Philippines).  Males  and  females  were  approximately  equally  represented  in  all 
studies. 
A total of 4145 subjects received Synflorix according to 2-dose or a 3-dose primary vaccination, 3870 
subjects received a booster dose and 450 subjects >6 months of age received the vaccine according to 
different  catch-up  vaccination  schedules.  Few  subjects  were  withdrawn  or  discontinued  from  the 
studies (<3%). 
Pivotal primary immunogenicity study 10PN-PD-DIT-001   
The Applicant’s claim for invasive pneumococcal disease is based on study 10PN-PD-DIT-001, using 
the WHO licensure criteria (see introduction).  
METHODS AND BACKGROUND 
The  post-primary  antibody  threshold  of  0.35  μg/ml  that  is  recommended  by  the  WHO  for  non-
inferiority comparison between vaccines was derived from antibody concentrations measured with an 
ELISA without 22F pre-adsorption. The Applicant performed bridging studies between the GSK 22F-
ELISA and WHO non-22F ELISA and identified an equivalent antibody threshold of 0.20 μg/ml being 
aligned to the reference non-22F threshold of 0.35 μg/ml. Following CHMP Scientific Advice in 2003, 
all the clinical studies assessing Synflorix were designed and powered based on the 22F-ELISA and 
the corresponding 0.20 μg/ml threshold for non-inferiority. 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-001 was designed to evaluate non-inferiority of Synflorix compared to Prevenar. 
The study was randomised, controlled and included a total of 1650 subjects vaccinated (2-3-4 months) 
with  either  Synflorix  or  Prevenar  (3:1  ratio).  The  primary  endpoint  was  to  demonstrate  that  the  10-
valent vaccine administered as a 3-dose primary course was non-inferior to Prevenar against at least 7 
out of 10 serotypes. The 22F-ELISA antibody threshold used was 0.20 µg/ml. The statistical criteria 
had been endorsed by the CHMP.  
Synflorix 
Page 29 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  criterion  used  for  non-inferiority  was  as  follows:  for  each  of  the  7  Prevenar  serotypes,  non-
inferiority  will  be  demonstrated  if  the  upper  limit  of  the  2-sided  96.5%  CI  (adjusted  1-sided 
alpha=0.0175) of the difference between groups (Prevenar minus Synflorix) in terms of percentage of 
subjects with antibody concentrations >0.2 µg/ml, is lower than 10%;  for each of the 3 non-Prevenar 
serotypes (1, 5, 7F) non-inferiority will be demonstrated if the upper limit of the 2-sided 96.5% CI of 
the  difference  aggregate  response  for  the  7  Prevenar  serotypes  and  the  Synflorix  group,  in  terms  of 
percentage of subjects with antibody concentrations >0.2 µg/ml is lower than 10%.  
RESULTS 
Primary non-inferiority analysis 
Non-inferiority  to  Prevenar  was  demonstrated  for  8  out  of  10  serotypes  as  the  upper  limits  of  the 
96.5% CIs for the difference between groups (Prevenar minus Synflorix or aggregate response for the 
7 Prevenar serotypes minus Synflorix) in terms of percentage of subjects with pneumococcal antibody 
concentrations ≥ 0.20μg/ml were below the pre-defined limit of 10% for serotypes 1, 4, 5, 7F, 9V, 14, 
18C and 19F (Tables 5 and 6).  
Non-inferiority was not reached for serotypes 6B and 23F for which the observed difference between 
groups  in  percentage  of  subjects  with  antibody  concentration  ≥0.20 μg/ml  was  13.12%  and  12.72%, 
respectively,  and  thus  limits  of  the  96.5%  CIs  around  these  differences  were  higher  than  10%.  The 
upper limit of the 96.5% CI was 18.3% and 16.1%, respectively. 
Table  5: Comparative  analysis  between Prevenar  and  Synflorix  in percentage  of  subjects  with  antibody 
concentrations >0.20 µg/ml, one month post-dose 3 (ATP immunogenicity cohort)  
Antibody 
Anti-4 
Anti-6B 
Anti-9V 
Anti-14 
Anti-18C 
Anti-19F 
Anti-23F 
Synflorix 
Prevenar 
Difference in % ≥ 0.2μg/ml (Prevenar 
minus Synflorix) 
N 
1106 
1100 
1103 
1100 
1102 
1104 
1102 
% 
97.1 
65.9 
98.1 
99.5 
96.0 
95.4 
81.4 
N 
373 
372 
374 
374 
374 
375 
374 
% 
100 
79.0 
99.5 
99.5 
98.9 
99.2 
94.1 
% 
2.89 
13.12 
1.37 
-0.08 
2.92 
3.83 
12.72 
96.5%CI 
1.71 
7.53 
-0.28 
-1.66 
0.88 
1.87 
8.89 
4.16 
18.28 
2.56 
0.71 
4.57 
5.50 
16.13 
The percentage of vaccinees reaching the threshold for the three additional serotypes (1, 5 and 7F) was 
respectively  97.3%,  99.0%  and  99.5%  and  was  at  least  as  good  as  the  aggregate  Prevenar  response 
against the 7 common serotypes (95.8%).   
Table 6: Difference between the aggregate response of the 7 Prevenar serotypes and the Synflorix group 
for serotypes 1, 5 and 7 
Antibody 
Anti-1 
Anti-5 
Anti-7F 
Synflorix 
Aggregate Prevenar 
response 
N 
1100 
1104 
1107 
% 
97.3 
99.0 
99.5 
N 
2616 
2616 
2616 
% 
95.8 
95.8 
95.8 
Difference in %≥ 0.2μg/ml (Aggregate 
Prevenar minus Synflorix) 
96.5%CI 
-2.50 
-4.02 
-4.42 
-0.52 
-2.50 
-3.01 
% 
-1.52 
-3.25 
-3.70 
Aggregate Prev response % = percentage of pneumococcal antibody concentrations ≥ 0.2 µg/mL for the combined 7 Prevenar serotypes 
(4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F) ; 96.5% CI = 96.5% Efron’s percentile confidence interval (bootstrap method) 
Post-hoc exploratory inferential analyses  
ELISA 0.35µg/ml threshold  
A post-hoc analysis was performed using the established 0.35 µg/ml threshold, which showed that the 
non-inferiority  criterion  was  met  only  for  7  out  of  10  serotypes.  The  upper  limit  of  the  95%  CIs 
exceeded 10% for 6B (21.1%), 19F (11.3%) and 23F (24.8%).  
Opsonophagocytic assay (OPA) 
A post-hoc inferential analysis was performed on the difference between groups in terms of percentage 
with  OPA  titres  >  8.  Opsonophagocytic  activity  was  evaluated  on  a  subset  of  25%  of  subjects 
Page 30 of 61 
Synflorix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Synflorix  n=300;  Prevenar  n=100).  The  observed  difference  was  <5%  for  all  serotypes  common  to 
both vaccines, including serotypes 6B and 23F. The upper limit of the 95%CI around difference was 
below 10% for all serotypes, except for serotypes 1 (36.1%) and 19F (10.6%) (Figure 1, tables 7 and 
8).  
Figure 1 
Table 7: Study 10PN-PD-DIT-001: Comparative analysis between Prevenar and Synflorix groups in the 
percentage of subjects with OPA titre greater than or equal to 8, one month post-dose III (ATP cohort for 
immunogenicity) 
Antibody 
Anti-4 
Anti-6B 
Anti-9V 
Anti-14 
Anti-18C 
Anti-19F 
Anti-23F 
Synflorix 
Prevenar 
N 
267 
262 
268 
267 
266 
268 
261 
% 
99.6 
92.4 
100 
99.6 
93.6 
87.7 
93.9 
N 
88 
89 
89 
89 
88 
89 
87 
% 
100 
95.5 
100 
98.9 
95.5 
92.1 
97.7 
95%CI 
Difference in % ≥ 8 
(Prevenar minus Synflorix) 
% 
0.37 
3.14 
0.00 
-0.75 
1.85 
4.45 
3.83 
-3.81 
-3.80 
-4.14 
-5.73 
-5.09 
-3.72 
-2.20 
2.09 
8.03 
1.41 
1.14 
6.52 
10.61 
7.96 
Table  8:  Study  10PN-PD-DIT-001:  Comparative  analysis  between  the  aggregate  response  for  the  seven 
Prevenar serotypes and Synflorix in the percentage of subjects with OPA titre greater than or equal to 8, 
one month post-dose III (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Antibody 
Anti-1 
Anti-5 
Anti-7F 
Synflorix 
Aggregate Prevenar 
response 
Difference in %≥ 8  
(Aggregate Prevenar minus Synflorix) 
N 
268 
263 
264 
% 
65.7 
90.9 
99.6 
N 
619 
619 
619 
% 
97.1 
97.1 
97.1 
% 
31.42 
6.22 
-2.53 
95%CI 
27.01 
3.30 
-3.67 
36.05 
9.13 
-1.32 
Descriptive immunogenicity data 
One month post-dose 3, at least 95.4% of subjects in the Synflorix group had antibody concentrations 
≥0.20 μg/ml  against  the  vaccine  serotypes,  except  for  serotypes  6B  (65.9%)  and  23F  (81.4%).  The 
post  primary  ELISA  GMCs  were  significantly  lower  (no  overlap  of  CIs)  for  all  the  7  common 
serotypes in the Synflorix group compared to those in the Prevenar group.  
Pre-booster  GMCs  (8  to  12  months  after  the  last  primary  dose)  were  generally  similar  for  the  two 
vaccines.  
As regards OPA, at least 87.7% of Synflorix vaccinees had an OPA titres ≥ 1:8, one month post-dose 
3, against all vaccine serotypes, except for serotype 1 (65.7%). The GMTs were lower for 5 serotypes 
Synflorix 
Page 31 of 61 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
(4, 6B, 14, 18C, and 23F) and higher for 2 serotypes (9V and 19F) in the Synflorix group compared to 
those in the Prevenar group.  
POET efficacy study  
METHODS AND BACKGROUND 
The  Pneumococcal  Otitis  efficacy  Trial  (POET)  evaluated  the  protective  efficacy  of  the  related  11-
valent vaccine against AOM. This study allows a comparison of the immunogenicity data of Synflorix 
with the immunogenicity data of the 11Pn-PD vaccine from POET trial in order to provide a basis for 
AOM  efficacy  of  Synflorix.  No  immunological  correlate  of  efficacy  has  been  established  for 
pneumococcal  mucosal  infections  and  therefore  vaccine  efficacy  estimates  for  AOM  must  rely  on 
clinical efficacy data.  
The  POET  trial  was  conducted  in  Czech  Republic  and  Slovak  Republic  and  enrolled  4968  infants 
randomly  assigned  to  receive  either  11Pn-PD  or  hepatitis  A  vaccine  at  the  ages  3,  4,  5  and  12-15 
months of age and followed up until the end of the second year of life. The study was well conducted 
with a relevant case definition of clinical AOM and confirmation of all cases by an ENT specialist. A 
sample of middle ear fluid for bacteriological culture was obtained from the majority AOM episodes 
(96%). There were few study withdrawals and discontinuations (~1%). The primary objective of the 
study  was  to  demonstrate  efficacy  against  the  first  occurrence  of  vaccine-pneumococcal-serotype 
AOM. The key secondary objective was to assess efficacy against AOM caused by NTHi. This aim is 
based on the presence of the carrier protein D in the vaccine, a cell-surface protein derived from an 
NTHi  strain,  which  in  preclinical  studies  has  induced  protection  against  NTHi  AOM.  The  ATP 
efficacy follow-up period started 2 weeks after the third vaccine dose. Efficacy was also evaluated in 
an ITT population (TVC). 
RESULTS 
During the per-protocol follow-up 333 clinical AOM episodes (0.08 per person-year) were recorded in 
the 11Pn-PD group and 499 (0.13 per person-year) in the control group giving a 33.6% (95% CI: 20.8, 
44.3) reduction in the overall incidence of AOM.  
The primary objective of the study was met. The efficacy against the first confirmed episode of AOM 
caused  by  vaccine  serotypes  was  52.6%  (2-sided  p-value  of  0.016  for  the  null  hypothesis  that 
VE=30%) (Table 9). The lower limit of the 95% CI was equal to 35%. Vaccine efficacy was 57.6% 
(95% CI: 41.4, 69.3) against any vaccine serotype AOM episode in the ATP cohort and 58.4% (95% 
CI:  43.5,  69.3)  in  the  TVC  cohort.  Efficacy  against  any  AOM  episode  due  to  any  pneumococcal 
serotype was 51.5 % (95% CI: 36.8, 62.9).  
The secondary objective was not met since the efficacy against the first episode of AOM caused by 
NTHi was 31.1% in the ATP cohort (the 2-sided P-value of 0.074 for the null hypothesis that VE=0% 
is not below the 5% alpha level) (Table 9). The lower limit of the 95% CI was equal to -3.7%. In the 
TVC cohort significant efficacy was observed. Efficacy against any AOM episode due to NTHi was 
35.3% (95% CI: 1.8, 57.4) in the ATP cohort and 33.3% (0.3, 55.4) in the TVC cohort. 
Table 9: Protective efficacy for time to first  occurrence of AOM (ATP and Total Cohorts for efficacy)  
11Pn-PD 
HAV 
ATP Cohort for efficacy 
 - Vaccine pn.  serotypes 
 - Nontypeable H. influenzae  
Total Cohort for efficacy 
 - Vaccine pn. serotypes 
 - Nontypeable H. influenzae  
N of 1st 
episodes 
N=2455 
57 
39 
N=2489 
64 
43 
Incidence 
/1000 py  
14.4 
9.8 
14.2 
9.5 
N of 1st 
episodes 
N=2452 
118 
56 
N=2479 
132 
63 
Synflorix 
Page 32 of 61 
Vaccine Efficacy 
95% CI 
% 
Incidence
/ 1000 py 
30.4 
14.2 
29.8 
14.0 
52.6 
31.1 
52.6 
32.7 
35.0 to 65.5 
-3.7 to 54.2 
36.1 to 64.9 
0.77 to 54.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistically significant serotype-specific efficacy was shown for four serotypes, 6B (VE: 87.6% (58.4, 
96.3)), 14 (VE: 95.5% (66.0, 99.4)), 19F (VE: 44.4% (8.3, 66.3)) and 23F (VE: 72.3% (24.8, 89.8)). 
For  other  vaccine  serotypes,  the  number  of  AOM  cases  was  too  limited  to  allow  any  efficacy 
conclusion to be drawn.  
In contrast, no protection against AOM caused by serotype 3 was shown, despite a sufficient number 
of episodes. Concerning serotype 3 the OPA responses for this type cannot be directly compared with 
those of the  other vaccine serotypes, since a non-pathogenic atypical SSI 3/1  serotype 3 isolate was 
used to measure OPA activity, whereas for the other serotypes, clinical isolates were used. A possible 
explanation for lack of vaccine efficacy against serotype 3 AOM is that either the atypically abundant 
expression  of  capsular  polysaccharide  in  planktonic  growth  or  the  acapsular  forms  associated  with 
biofilm  growth  could  make  serotype  3  strains  less  susceptible  to  anti-polysaccharide  antibody 
mediated defence mechanisms. Whether this also applies to serotype 3 IPD is an open question. 
Efficacy was also shown against AOM caused by all vaccine-related serotypes combined (mainly 6A), 
but statistical significance was not reached for any individual serotype.  
Overall  vaccine  efficacy  (i.e.  efficacy  against  first  episode  of  AOM  regardless  of  aetiology)  was 
34.5% (95% CI: 22.9, 44.3). Although not statistically significant, a trend for reduction of recurrent 
AOM (≥3 episodes in 6 months or ≥4 in 12 months) was observed (55.6 % (95% CI : -1.9, 80.7)). The 
same trend was observed for ventilation tube placement (60.3% (95% CI : -26.7, 87.5)).  
During  the  follow-up  period  there  was  no  evidence  of  pneumococcal  serotype  replacement  disease, 
even  though  NPH  carriage  data  suggested  some  increase  in  non-vaccine  types  at  some  time  points. 
There  was  no  significant  effect  on  carriage  rates  of  NTHi  although  some  reductions  were  noted.  At 
one time point (age: 15-18 months) a significant 40% reduction of the NPH carriage of H. influenzae 
was observed. 
Correlation between efficacy and antibody levels 
There was no clear correlation between efficacy and serotype specific immune responses in the POET 
trial  as  determined  by  either  OPA  or  ELISA.  However,  there  was  a  trend  towards  a  relationship 
between OPA GMTs and efficacy with the more efficacious types having the highest OPA titres (Fig 
2). Based on these results, OPA activity against each serotype was used as the primary endpoint for 
the  immunological  comparison  between  Synflorix  and  the  11Pn-PD  vaccine  formulation  tested  in 
POET. 
Figure 2  Relationship between pneumococcal serotype-specific OPA GMTs post-dose III and efficacy against 
pneumococcal AOM in POET 
1 1 P n - P D   A O M   V E  &   p o st - p r im a r y   O P A  G M T   in   P O E T
1 1 P n - P D   A O M   V E  &   p o st - p r im a r y   O P A  G M T   in   P O E T
1 0 0
1 0 0
9 0
9 0
8 0
8 0
7 0
7 0
6 0
6 0
5 0
5 0
4 0
4 0
3 0
3 0
2 0
2 0
1 0
1 0
0
0
M
M
O
O
A
A
t
t
s
s
n
n
i
i
a
a
g
g
a
a
E
E
V
V
D
D
P
P
-
-
n
n
P
P
1
1
1
1
- 1 0
- 1 0
- 2 0
- 2 0
1 0
1 0
1 9 F
1 9 F
1 8 C
1 8 C
3
3
1 0 0
1 0 0
4
4
1 4
1 4
6 B
6 B
2 3 F
2 3 F
9 V
9 V
P o s t - p r im a ry   O P A   G M T
P o s t - p r im a ry   O P A   G M T
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0 0
1 0 0 0 0
No correlation between protection against AOM episodes due to NTHi and antibody levels against the 
carrier protein D could be established, as post-primary anti-PD IgG antibody concentrations in 11Pn-
Synflorix 
Page 33 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PD  vaccinees  that  remained  NTHi  AOM  episode-free  were  similar  to  those  measured  in  11Pn-PD 
vaccinees that developed at least one NTHi AOM episode during the efficacy follow-up period.  
In  the  absence  of  an  appropriate  in  vitro  functional  assay  to  measure  anti-protein  D  immunity,    the 
validated in vivo juvenile chinchilla otitis media model was used to demonstrate comparable biological 
functionality of anti-PD immune responses against NTHi following vaccination of human infants with 
either  Synflorix  or  with  11Pn-PD  in  POET.  The  results  in  the  chinchilla  model  were  considered 
supportive, but cannot substitute for human efficacy data.  
Study Undeca-Pn-037-Extension of POET trial 
This study was performed to address the concern that the 11Pn-PD vaccine induced immune tolerance 
or hyporesponsiveness to serotype 3. A total of 100 subjects, who had participated in the POET trial 
and  received  4  doses  of  the  11Pn-PD  or  HAV  vaccine,  were  enrolled.  The  study  subjects  were 
vaccinated with one single dose of 23vPS vaccine. The mean age at the time of vaccination was 3.6 
years.  Antibody  levels  declined  for  all  serotypes  in  the  two  year  period  between  the  post  booster 
(fourth  dose)  and  prior  to  the  23vPS  dose.  The  percentage  of  subjects  still  reaching  the  0.20  µg/ml 
threshold varied among serotypes from 20 % (serotype 4) to 93% (serotype 14). Some of the serotypes 
such  as  6B,  14  and  19F  had  less  pronounced  antibody  decline.  As  regards  OPA,  the  seropositivity 
rates (GMT > 1:8) ranged from 13-16% (serotype 1 and 18C) to 92-100% (serotypes 6B, 9V and 14). 
Ten to 15 days after the 23vPS booster, antibody GMCs against each serotype increased substantially, 
with increases ranging between 6- and 180-fold compared to pre-23vPS levels, indicating persistence 
of immune memory. The polysaccharide vaccine elicited immune responses in both the primed (100% 
>0.20µg/ml)  and  the  unprimed  (71.4%  >0.20µg/ml)  groups  for  all  serotypes,  including  serotype  3. 
OPA GMTs increased substantially and were between 4- and 1472-fold higher than pre-booster levels. 
The highest fold-rise was observed for type 1.  
The results indicated that the serotype 3 PD-conjugate did not induce a hypo-responsiveness and that 
the capacity of children to respond to a natural infection would not be impaired.  
Immunological bridging between 11Pn-PD and Synflorix 
METHODS 
Because the 11Pn-PD formulation was no longer available, a head-to-head comparison with Synflorix 
vaccine  was  not  possible.  Instead  a  comparison  of  the  immune  response  induced  by  the  10-valent 
vaccine to historical immunogenicity data obtained with the 11Pn-PD vaccine in POET was performed 
in the study 10PN-PD-DiT-010.  
The  primary  aim  of  study  10PN-PD-DIT-010  was  to  assess  whether  paracetamol,  given  as 
prophylactic treatment, significantly reduced the rate of febrile reactions in children receiving at 3, 4, 
and 5 months of age primary vaccination. Another aim of the study, which was amended to the study 
protocol  in  November  2006,  was  to  compare  the  immunogenicity  data  of  Synflorix  with  the 
immunogenicity data of the 11Pn-PD vaccine from POET trial, to provide a basis for AOM efficacy of 
Synflorix. 
Study  10PN-PD-DIT-010  was  conducted  in  the  same  setting  (Czech  Republic)  and  used  the  same 
immunisation schedule (3-4-5 months) as that in the POET study.  
Primary immunogenicity analysis 
The objective of comparison of immunogenicity data from study 10PN-PD-DIT-010 to the historical 
immunogenicity data obtained in POET would be reached if the upper limits of the 95% CIs for OPA 
GMTs ratios for the 10 common pneumococcal serotypes would be below 2.5. The use of a 2.5 limit 
for  demonstration  of  non-inferiority  based  on  OPA  GMT  ratios  was  chosen  given  the  higher 
variability of OPA responses (compared to ELISA).  
Synflorix 
Page 34 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
In  the  primary  immunogenicity  analysis  comparing  the  OPA  GMT  ratios  (11Pn-PD/Synflorix)  one 
month post-dose 3 dose, it was shown that the upper limit of the 95% CI around the GMT ratio was 
below  the  pre-specified  2.5  limit  for  8  out  of  10  vaccine  pneumococcal  serotypes  and  therefore  the 
objective of the study was not met. The upper limit was >2.5 for serotypes 1 and 5. For three serotypes 
4, 18C and 19F, all of which have a higher amount of PS (3 µg) and two that used other carriers than 
PD  (DT  and  TT),  the  OPA  titres  were  higher  in  the  Synflorix  group.  However,  considering  the 
unexpected  finding  in  study  10PN-PD-DIT-010  that  paracetamol  had  a  negative  impact  on  vaccine-
induced  immune  response  and  that  half  of  the  study  subjects  were  administered  prophylactic 
paracetamol,  whereas  only  1.5%  of  the  study  subjects  in  POET  received  paracetamol  at  the  time  of 
vaccine administration, a reanalysis was performed taking into account these facts.  
In  the  comparison  made  between  POET  11Pn-PD  subjects  and  the  10Pn-PD-DIT-010  subjects  who 
were  not  administered  paracetamol  at  the  time  of  vaccination,  the  immunological  non-inferiority  of 
Synflorix  was  demonstrated  for  all  serotypes  except  serotype  1  (Table  10).  OPA  GMT  ratios  were 
lower  than  1  for  3  serotypes  (UL  of  the  95%  CI  <1  for  serotypes  4,  18C,  19F),  similar  to  1  for  4 
serotypes (the 95% CI included 1 for serotypes 6B, 7F, 14, 23F), and higher than 1 for 3 serotypes (LL 
of the 95% CI >1 for serotypes 1, 5, 9V).  
Table 10: Post-dose III OPA GMT ratios (11Pn-PD in POET over non-antipyretic Synflorix group 
from study 10PN-PD-DIT-010) for vaccine serotypes (ATP cohort for immunogenicity)  
Anti body 
OPSONO-1 
OPSONO-4 
OPSONO-5 
OPSONO-6B 
OPSONO-7F 
OPSONO-9V 
OPSONO-14 
OPSONO-18C 
OPSONO-19F 
OPSONO-23F 
11Pn-PD 
10PnNAP 
GMT ratio (11Pn-PD /10PnNAP) 
N 
99 
102 
103 
106 
102 
104 
105 
97 
100 
100 
GMT 
41.7 
399.8 
99.0 
567.5 
2619.0 
1758.6 
1262.2 
47.4 
106.5 
1722.5 
N 
176 
175 
171 
162 
170 
169 
175 
170 
165 
170 
GMT 
Value 
23.7 
744.6 
72.5 
684.8 
2345.3 
1230.3 
1161.6 
202.2 
369.5 
1497.2 
1.76 
0.54 
1.36 
0.83 
1.12 
1.43 
1.09 
0.23 
0.29 
1.15 
95% CI 
LL 
1.16 
0.43 
1.01 
0.56 
0.84 
1.08 
0.83 
0.17 
0.20 
0.83 
UL 
2.66 
0.67 
1.85 
1.23 
1.48 
1.89 
1.42 
0.32 
0.41 
1.60 
These  conclusions  were  supported  by  a  post-hoc  analysis  of  the  OPA  responses  in  study  10PN-PD-
DIT-001  (performed  according  to  the  more  compressed  2-3-4  month  primary  vaccination  schedule). 
This  analysis,  which  used  the  same  non-inferiority  criteria  as  those  defined  in  the  010  protocol, 
showed that the upper limit of the 95% CIs around the OPA GMT ratio (11Pn-PD in POET/Synflorix 
in study 10PN-PD-DIT-001) was below 2.5 for all vaccine serotypes. 
With  respect  protein  D,  lower  ELISA  GMCs  were  observed  in  the  Synflorix  group.  The  clinical 
significance  of  this  reduced  anti-PD  response  is  not  known.  The  results  of  the  passive  protection 
experiments in the chinchilla otitis model using sera from children immunised with the 10Pn vaccine 
support the biological function of the anti-PD antibodies. However, whether sufficient antibody levels 
will be reached following vaccination of children to afford protection against NTHi AOM is unclear.  
When comparing immune responses following booster vaccination with the 11Pn-PD and Synflorix, 
no  substantial  differences  in  the  magnitude  of  the  ELISA  or  OPA  responses  were  observed  for  any 
serotype (including for serotype 1) except that OPA GMTs were somewhat lower for serotypes 5 and 
9V  in  the  Synflorix  group.  The  booster  dose    data  were  considered  important  supporting  the 
comparability of the two vaccines. 
Synflorix 
Page 35 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
•  Other studies 
Lot-to-lot consistency (study 10PN-PD-DIT-001) 
The clinical consistency of the immunogenicity of three consecutive production lots of Synflorix was 
also  evaluated  as  a  co-primary  objective  in  study  001.  Lot-to-lot  consistency  was  demonstrated 
according to pre-specified criteria: the 95% CIs on the adjusted GMC ratios for each pair of lots were 
within  the  pre-defined  range  of  [0.4  to  2.5]  for  each  pneumococcal  serotype  and  for  protein  D.  The 
criteria used were accepted by the CHMP in a Scientific Advice. 
It can be concluded that consistency of post-primary antibody response for each of the 10 serotypes 
was demonstrated for 3 different lots of Synflorix. 
3-dose  primary  vaccination  (Studies  10PN-PD-DIT-001,  -002,  -003,  -005,  -010,  -011,  -012  and-
013)  
Eight  primary  vaccination  studies  evaluated  immunogenicity  of  Synflorix  in  the  various  3-dose 
schedules used in the EU, i.e. 2-3-4 months (studies 001, 002 and 003), 3-4-5 months (studies 010 and 
013) and 2-4-6 months (studies 005 , 011 and -012). All studies were conducted in Europe, except for 
study  005  (Chile).  In  addition,  in  study  012,  half  of  the  subjects  were  enrolled  in  Philippines  and 
vaccinated at 6, 10 and 14 weeks of age.  Four studies included Prevenar in the control arm. Synflorix 
was  always  co-administered  with  other  paediatric  vaccines.  The  study  results  from  the  226  subjects 
who were part of the antipyretic group in study 10PN-PD-DiT-010 are described in section ‘effect of 
prophylactic antipyretic use’ further below.  
Synflorix  was  demonstrated  to  induce  an  immune  response  to  all  ten  serotypes  in  all  vaccination 
schedules.  The  GMCs  and  GMTs  varied  considerably  amongst  serotypes  for  both vaccines  and  also 
but less so, by vaccination schedule. Somewhat higher ELISA GMCs were seen with the 2-4-6 month 
schedule,  in  the  Chilean  subjects,  as  well  as  in  Philippino  infants  vaccinated  according  to  the  EPI 
schedule. OPA GMTs were less variable across studies. These findings are most likely the results of a 
population effect (i.e. genetic factors, priming of maternal vaccination with antigens such as tetanus 
toxoid, pneumococcal nasopharyngeal acquisition) rather than a schedule/age effect. The high baseline 
levels of maternal pneumococcal antibodies were noteworthy in both study groups of 012 study, but in 
particular in the Philippino group.  
In general, serotype 14 proved to be the most immunogenic type by ELISA and 6B and 23F were the 
least immunogenic types for both vaccines. Over 93% of subjects who received a 3-dose series with 
Synflorix  and  94.7%  of  those  who  received  Prevenar  reached  the  ELISA  threshold  ≥  0.20  μg/ml, 
except for serotype 6B in both vaccines and 23F in the Synflorix group.  
For  the  three  additional  serotypes  1,  5  and  7F  the  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  antibody 
concentrations  >0.20  µg/ml  ranged  from  93.1%  to  100%  in  Synflorix  recipients  and  from  1.7%  to 
5.2%  in  Prevenar  recipients.  The  GMCs  were  in  the  same  order  of  magnitude  as  the  7  common 
serotypes  and  varied  from  1.00  to  2.82  µg/ml  in  Synflorix  groups,  whereas  only  minimal  ELISA 
reactivity (0.03 to 0.04 µg/ml) were observed in Prevenar groups. 
As regards the functional immune response, at least 76.3% of subjects (89.8% for Prevenar) across all 
schedules achieved OPA titres ≥8, except for serotype 1 (43.1%-82.4%). GMTs were usually lower for 
Synflorix than for Prevenar, with the exception of  serotype 19F. Serotype 7F proved to be the most 
immunogenic  by  OPA  for  the  10-valent  vaccine  and  serotype  23F  for  Prevenar.    The  least 
immunogenic types by OPA were the ´additional` serotypes 1 and 5. In addition, post-primary OPA 
responses to serotype 18C did not reach the same level as for other serotypes but remained within the 
same  range  or  higher  compared  to  post-primary  OPA  responses  for  serotype  19F  in  Prevenar 
vaccinees.  In  all  studies  98-100%  of  subjects  receiving Synflorix  were  seropositive  (>100  EL.U/ml) 
for antibodies to protein D. 
Antibody persistence (Studies 10PN-PD-DIT-002, -007, -008, -013, -014, -017 and -022) 
Persistence of antibodies 7 to 14 months after 3-dose primary vaccination with Synflorix was assessed 
in 7 studies including 2931 infants vaccinated with Synflorix and 693 vaccinated with Prevenar. The 
results  of  205  subjects  vaccinated  with  Synflorix  and  belonging  to  the  antipyretic  group  in  study 
Synflorix 
Page 36 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10PN-PD-DiT-014  are  described  in  section  ‘effect  of  prophylactic  antipyretic  use’  further  below.  In  
most of the studies the  2-3-4 or 3-4-5 months schedule was used for primary and in 3 studies Prevenar 
was included as a control. A decline in antibody concentrations was seen for both vaccines and for all 
serotypes,  except  6B.  Similar  to  what  has  been  reported  for  Prevenar,  the  GMCs  for  serotype  6B 
increased somewhat during the observation period. As regards serotype 23F, the antibody decline was 
very  modest  in  the  Synflorix  group,  in  contrast  to  the  Prevenar  group.  Thus,  the  low  responses 
observed for 6B and 23F following primary vaccination with Synflorix did not translate into reduced 
antibody  persistence  compared  to  Prevenar  in  the  second  year  of  life.  However,  with  respect  to  the 
functional  immune  response  for  serotypes  6B  and  23F,  expected  declines  in  OPA  GMTs  were 
observed  similarly  for  both  vaccines.  At  the  time  of  booster  50%-99%  of  subjects  primed  with 
Synflorix  and  44%-96%  of  those  primed  with  Prevenar  had  antibody  concentrations  >0.20 µg/ml  to 
the  common  serotypes.  As  regards  the  three  additional  serotypes,  the  proportion  of  subjects 
maintaining  the  threshold  >0.20  µg/ml  was  low  for  serotype  1  (36%-72%)  and  5  (67%-89%),  but 
higher for serotype 7F (90%-98%). For both vaccines, the percentages of subjects with OPA titres ≥ 8 
prior  to  booster  vaccination  varied  considerably  amongst  serotypes.  Low  OPA  persistence  was 
observed for serotypes 1, 5 and 18C in the Synflorix group with only 15%-29%, 34%-62% and 14%-
41%, respectively of subjects still being seropositive. For Prevenar reduced persistence was noted for 
serotype 19F (16.4%-23.5%).  
 Comparative  persistence  data  from  studies  10PN-PD-DIT-007,  -008,  and  -017  indicate  that  the 
percentages of subjects who had still OPA titres above the threshold at the pre-booster time point were 
in general similar for Synflorix and Prevenar.  
Booster vaccination (Studies 10PN-PD-DIT-002, -007, -013, -014, -017 and -022)  
Booster vaccination with Synflorix was received by 3870 children between 11 and 18 months of age, 
of  which  2871  received  a  fourth  dose  of  Synflorix vaccine  after  3-dose  priming.  The  results  of  205 
subjects vaccinated with Synflorix and belonging to the antipyretic group in study 10PN-PD-DiT-014 
are described in section ‘effect of prophylactic antipyretic use’ further below. Prevenar was included 
in  the  control  arm  of  studies  10PN-PD-DIT  -007  (N=92)  and  10PN-PD-DIT-017  (N=357).  Both 
vaccines induced a booster response with the GMC/GMTs being higher than post-primary responses 
for all serotypes. Increases of ELISA (at least 3.8-fold increase) and OPA (at least 3.9-fold increase) 
responses were observed after a fourth dose of Synflorix compared to pre-booster levels. These data 
indicate  a  priming  effect  of  the  3  vaccine  doses  on  the  immune  system  and  the  boostability  of  the 
immune response by Synflorix against all serotypes. The magnitude of booster responses differed by 
serotypes  and  vaccines.  Prevenar  induced  greater  fold  increases  of  GMCs  pre-  to  post-boost  for  the 
´low  immunogenic´  serotypes  6B  and  23F,  whereas  for  the  other  common  serotypes,  the  booster 
responses were in the same order of magnitude in both groups. As regards, the ´additional serotypes`, 
1,  5  and  7,  the  GMC  ratios  post-  to  pre-boost  varied  from  6.3  to  10.9,  4.3  to  8.1  and  4.0  to  6.3, 
respectively. Overall, the post-booster GMCs were higher in the Prevenar group for all the 7 serotypes 
in common, except 19F. The lowest GMCs in the Synflorix group were observed for serotypes 6B, 1 
and 5. At least 98.8% of subjects attained the 0.20 µg/ml threshold in both vaccine groups, except for 
serotype  6B  (96.4%-99.0%  (Synflorix)  and  97.7%-99.3%  (Prevenar))  and  23F  (97.5%-99.3% 
(Synflorix) and 98.9%-99.3% (Prevenar)). The percentages of subjects with seroprotective OPA titres 
were similar for both vaccines. At least 96% of subjects attained OPA titres > 1:8, except for serotypes 
1 (83.3%-97.4%), 6B (84.4%-98.4%) and 19F (91.5%-100%) in the Synflorix groups and 19F (92.5%-
98.5%) in the Prevenar groups. The lowest GMTs in the Synflorix group were observed for serotypes 
1 and 5. The data on immune response against carrier protein D indicated a good priming effect of the 
3-dose schedule and an anamnestic response following the booster dose. 
The Applicant has committed to follow-up long-term persistence of the immunogenicity and immune 
memory, which will provide important information.  
Booster interchangeability following 3-dose priming (Study 10PN-PD-DIT-007) 
Booster  dose  of  Synflorix  following  3-dose  priming  with  Prevenar  was  explored  in  study  007.  A 
booster  response  was  observed  for  all  serotypes.  Although  post-booster  ELISA  antibody GMCs  and 
OPA  GMTs  were  generally  lower  compared  to  four  consecutive  doses  of  the  same  vaccine,  at  least 
97.0% and 94.9% of subjects reached the ELISA and OPA threshold, respectively, for the serotypes 
Synflorix 
Page 37 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
common  to  both  vaccines.  For  the  3  new  serotypes  (1,  5  and  7)  at  least  85%  of  Prevenar-primed 
subjects  reached  the  0.20  µg/ml  antibody  threshold  compared  to  less  than  7.5%  in  Prevenar  primed 
and  boosted  subjects.  After  a  booster  dose  of  Synflorix,  50%  of  the  subjects  primed  with  Prevenar 
were  seropositive  for  protein  D  antibodies,  which  were  significantly  lower  compared  with  subjects 
who received four doses of the 10-valent vaccine.  
A statement in the SPC that subjects who receive a first dose of Synflorix is recommended to complete 
the vaccination course with Synflorix has been added. In addition, a paragraph in section 5.1 describes 
the data obtained in the booster interchangeability study. 
Vaccine-related serotypes 6A and 19A 
The immune response against cross-reactive serotypes 6A and 19A following Synflorix vaccination, 
was  assessed  by  ELISA  and  OPA  in  all  primary  vaccination  studies  except  one,  and  in  five  booster 
studies.  Both  Synflorix  and  Prevenar  induced  an  immune  response  against  the  vaccine-related 
serotypes 6A and 19A, which became more apparent after the booster dose. For serotype 6A higher 
post-booster GMC/GMTs were observed in the Prevenar group, whereas for serotype 19A, Synflorix 
appeared to induce a somewhat stronger immune response. For serotype 6A the observed post-booster 
response in the 10Pn group was in the same order of magnitude as that observed for serotype 1.  
2-dose primary vaccination and booster response (Study 10PN-PD-DIT-002) 
The  immune  response  to  2-dose  primary  vaccination  with  Synflorix  compared  to  3-dose  primary 
vaccination was assessed in study 10PN-PD-DIT-002, including 351 subjects. The vaccine was meant 
to be administered according to 2-4-11 month compared to a 2-3-4-11 month vaccination schedule, but 
in reality the doses were given by the 3-5-12 month schedule, which is the nationally recommended 
schedule in the countries where the study was conducted. Both vaccination schedules elicited ELISA 
and  OPA  responses  against  all  serotypes.  Lower  ELISA  GMCs  values  were  noted  for  all  serotypes 
after the 2-dose series than after the 3-dose series. In particular, low antibody titres were observed for 
serotypes  6B  and  23F  and  a  significantly  smaller  proportion  of  infants  achieved  an  antibody 
concentration >0.20 µg/ml for these serotypes. As regards the functional immune response, differences 
between  dose  groups  were  more  pronounced.  Substantially  lower  OPA  GMTs  for  the  majority  of 
serotypes were observed after a two-dose series than after a three-dose series. Particularly low OPA 
titres were observed for serotypes 1, 5 and 18C. The differences between groups became less marked 
following the booster dose, both with respect to ELISA and OPA responses, but was still noticeable 
for serotype 6B (OPA and ELISA) and serotype 5 (OPA).  
The  2-dose  schedule  proved  to  be  less  immunogenic  in  comparison  with  the  3-dose  schedule  and 
cannot  be  recommended.  The  clinical  consequences  of  the  lower  post-primary  and  post-booster 
immune  responses  observed  after  a  two-dose  primary  schedule  are  not  known.  The  3-dose  primary 
schedule is recommended to ensure optimal protection. This is reflected in the SPC sections 4.2 and 
5.1. The effectiveness of the 2-dose Synflorix vaccine schedule will be monitored in the planned post-
marketing study in Finland. 
Catch-up immunisation schedules (Study 10PN-PD-DIT-013) 
Catch-up  vaccination  with  Synflorix  in  children  7-11  months,  12-23  months  and  ≥24  months  to  5 
years  of  age  was  assessed  in  study  10PN-PD-DIT-013.  The  different  catch-up  schedules  were 
documented  in  an  appreciable  number  of  children  (N=450  with  150/group)  and  included  a  control 
group of  <6 month  olds  (N=150)  receiving  the  standard  3  primary  series  (2-3-4  months).  It  is  to  be 
noted  that  functional  antibody  response  were  only  analysed  in  a subset  of  subjects  (50/group).  Only 
interim data were available on the two younger age groups, but booster data were submitted during the 
assessment  period.  Data  on  the  age  distribution  in  the  older  group  showed  that  the  majority  (two 
thirds) was between 24 to 35 months of age. The dose recommendations proposed in the SPC for the 
respective age groups are for the 7-11 months old: 2 doses with an interval of at least one month and a 
third dose during the second year of life (after clinical confirmation) and for the 12-23 months old, 2 
doses  with  an  interval  of  at  least  two  months.  These  dose  recommendations  are  in  line  with  those 
given in the SPC for Prevenar. The overall pattern of the induced immune responses was very similar 
Synflorix 
Page 38 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  all  age  groups  with  respect  to  the  low  ELISA  responses  to  serotypes  6B  and  23F  and  low  OPA 
responses to serotypes 1 and 5. The booster response data for the < 6 months of age and 7-11 months 
of  age  groups  showed  no  major  differences.  In  addition,  the  safety  profile  was  comparable  between 
groups. These data supported the proposed vaccination schedule for previously unvaccinated children 
aged of 7 to 11 months as stated in section 4.2 of the SPC.  
With respect to the 12-23 months group,  higher GMC/GMTs post-dose 2 were noted for the majority 
of  serotypes  compared  to  those  post-dose  3  in  the  <6  months  group.  However,  for  the  least 
immunogenic  types  6B  and  23F  the  ELISA  GMCs  were  as  low  as  in  the  infants.  The  functional 
antibody responses were improved for most serotypes with the exception of serotypes 1 and 5; these 
were similarly low in both age groups. The need for a booster dose after a two doses in children aged 
12-23 months has not been established.   
In  children  above  two  years  of  age,  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  antibody  concentrations  ≥  0.20 
μg/ml was lower for serotypes 14 and 23F compared to the < 6Mo group and higher for serotype 19F. 
The GMCs were lower for serotypes 1, 5, 14 and 23F and were higher for serotypes 4, 18C and 19F 
compared to those in the <6Mo control group. OPA titres ≥ 8 were measured in at least 90.2% of the 
subjects for all serotypes, except serotypes 1 (46.3%), 5 (56.4%) and 6B (64.7%). The proportion of 
subjects with OPA titres ≥ 8 were lower for serotypes 1, 5 and 6B and higher for serotypes 18C and 
19F compared to the < 6 month group.  
Considering the suboptimal response observed for 4 serotypes (1, 5, 6B and 23F), the 2-dose schedule 
could be questioned in 12-23 month olds. A booster dose seems as necessary in this age group as in 
the infant to ascertain that a seroprotective level is reached for all vaccine serotypes.  The Applicant 
has  committed  to  evaluate  booster  vaccination  of  children  12-23  months  of  age.  With  respect  to 
children aged > 24 months, the results in study 013 suggest that a second dose is needed to optimize 
protection. The Company had no claim in the SPC for children >24 months (i.e. one single dose).  
(cid:190) Immune memory (Study 10PN-PD-DIT-008) 
Subjects primed in study 10PN-PD-DIT-003 with three doses of either Synflorix or Prevenar received 
a single dose of 23-valent plain polysaccharide vaccine (23vPS) at 11 to 14 months of age (mean age 
of 12.1 months) in study 10PN-PD-DIT-008. Historical data were provided for unprimed children. The 
pre-  and  post-  23vPS  boost  results  with  respect  to  the  ELISA  GMCs  indicated  a  good  anamnestic 
response  following  primary  vaccination.  The  priming  effect  varied  by  serotype,  but  was  discernable 
for all vaccine serotypes. In particular, good booster responses were seen for serotypes 1 and 5. With 
respect  to  serotypes  6B  and  23F,  a  7-fold  rise  in  GMCs  was  seen  from  pre-  to  post-boost  in  the 
Synflorix group, whereas this was higher in the Prevenar group (18-fold). Moreover, lower post-boost 
GMCs  were  observed  for  serotypes  4,  6B  and  23F  in  the  Synflorix  group.  The  data  on  ELISA 
responses suggest the induction of immune  memory in subjects primed with Synflorix and Prevenar 
receiving a challenge dose with the 23vPS. However, these results did not translate into a similar boost 
of the more important functional immune responses. The OPA GMTs did not exceed the post-primary 
levels and were for several of the serotypes even lower than one month after the 3-dose primary series. 
Both  vaccines  displayed  a  similar  pattern  although  it  varied  some  by  serotype.  The  reason  for  the 
reduced OPA responses might be the immature immune system of the young infant and its inability to 
respond  to  plain  polysaccharides.  However,  these  infants  were  fully  capable  to  respond  to  a  booster 
dose of the conjugate pneumococcal vaccines. Moreover, the older children in the POET trial who had 
already received a booster dose responded with high OPA responses after a challenge dose of 23vPs.  
The  results  on  avidity  for  5  serotypes  (1,  6B,  14,  19F  and  23F)  provided  additional  support  of  the 
induction  of  an  immune  memory  after  a  primary  vaccination  course.  In  contrast,  the  OPA/ELISAs 
ratios post-primary and post-booster did not turn out to be reliable  markers of the  maturation of the 
antibody response following Synflorix vaccination. The immune memory data on the 23vPS vaccine 
in the 10PN-PD-DIT studies did not provide any guidance how to use the 10-valent vaccine in high-
risk  children  following  primary  immunisation.  A  statement  in  the  SPC  section  4.4  reflects  this.  The 
Company committed to perform a study (10PN-PD-DIT-061) to address whether hyporesponsiveness 
occurs following a full-dose of 23vPS. Subjects in study 10PN-PD-DIT-008 will be revaccinated with 
Synflorix or Prevenar at approximately 4 years of age.  
Synflorix 
Page 39 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-administered vaccines 
In  all  completed  clinical  trials,  DTPa-combination vaccines  were  co-administered  with  Synflorix.  In 
study 10PN-PD-DIT-010, rotavirus vaccine (Rotarix, HRV) was co-administered with the first 2 doses 
of  Synflorix  primary  vaccination  course  at  3  and  4  months  of  age.  Different  MenC  or  Hib-MenC 
conjugate vaccines were co-administered in study 10PN-PD-DIT-011. In the booster vaccination study 
10PN-PD-DIT-022, the first or second dose of MMRV vaccine was co-administered with the fourth 
dose  of  Synflorix  at  either  12-14  or  14-16  months  of  age.  This  program  took  into  account  all  the 
potential co-administrations used in the EU. The methods, cut-offs and approach for assessment of the 
immune  response  to  co-administered  vaccine  antigens  were  the  same  as  those  employed  during  the 
clinical  development  of  GSK’s  licensed  vaccines.  At  each  time-point,  seropositivity/seroprotective 
rates and their 95% CIs were calculated for the vaccine antigens.  
The  immune  response  induced  by  the co-administered  paediatric  vaccines  was  in  line  with  previous 
observations  with  the  respective  DTPa-combined,  HRV,  MMRV,  MenC  and  Hib-MenC  licensed 
vaccines. Inconsistent post primary results were however observed across studies for poliovirus type 2, 
which is mentioned in the SPC, section 4.5. Immune responses against the tetanus and PRP antigens 
were  enhanced  when  co-administered  with  Synflorix.  This  higher  response  is  likely  due  to  the 
presence  of  the  TT-carrier  in  Synflorix.  For  the  HepB  vaccine  somewhat  lower  anti-HBs  titres  and 
seroprotection  rates  were  observed  in  the  10Pn  group  compared  to  the  HAV  control  group  in  study 
10PN-PD-DIT-005,  but  data  from  other  studies  did  not  indicate  any  immune  interference  between 
Synflorix and HepB vaccine. 
The evaluation of study 10-PN-PD-DiT-012 concerning the  co-administered DTPw-HBV/Hib vaccine 
antigens revealed that the seroprotection/ seropositivity vaccine responses were in general lower in the 
Philippines (EPI schedule) compared with those in Poland  (2-4-6 month schedule). E.g. for the HepB 
vaccine antigen ~90% of Philippino infants post-dose 3 attained seroprotective anti-HBs titres vs. 99-
100%  of  Polish  children  and  the  GMCs  were  also  significantly  lower.  This  was  observed  in  both 
vaccination  groups.  A  reduced  immune  response  to  the  HepB  vaccine  has  been  observed  by  other 
research groups in Philippino children and might be due to interference of maternal antibodies. Lower 
responses to polio virus types 1 and 3 to OPV vaccine were seen in the Prevenar group, but otherwise 
there were no significant differences between the pneumococcal vaccine groups. 
Concerning the anti-pneumococcal response, there were some differences observed between the three 
Synflorix  primed  study  groups  in  study  10PN-PD-DIT-011  receiving  concomitant  MenC  vaccines. 
The lowest antibody responses were observed in the Pn-HibC group. with lower GMCs  for all vaccine 
serotypes and lower OPA GMTs for 8 of 10 serotypes than in the other two Men C groups. However, 
post-booster data  from  study  017 did not  suggest  any  clinically  relevant  immunological  interference 
between  HibC  (Menitorix)  and  Synflorix.  There  was  no  control group  receiving  only pneumococcal 
vaccines included in the study and comparison with other 3-dose primary studies is difficult due to the 
different  vaccination  schedules  used.  For  the  MMRV  vaccine  there  was  no  evidence  to  suggest  that 
co-administration with Synflorix interfered with the anti-pneumococcal antibody response. 
The  results  suggest  no  clinically  significant  effect  of  Synflorix  on  the  immune  response  to  co-
administered vaccine antigens, except for poliovirus type 2. A statement of the enhanced Hib response 
and the inconsistent immune response to poliovirus type 2 has been included in the SPC.  
Effect of prophylactic antipyretic use (Study 10PN-PD-DIT-010 and -014)   
Study  10PN-PD-DIT-010  was  designed  to  demonstrate  reduction  in  febrile  reactions  (rectal 
temperature  ≥  38.0°C)  when  prophylactic  antipyretic  treatment  was  administered  compared  to  no 
prophylactic antipyretic treatment. All subjects received 3-dose primary vaccination with Synflorix co-
administered  with  DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib  at  3,  4  and  5  months  of  age  and  with  Rotarix  at  3  and  4 
months of age. One group received three doses of paracetamol: one dose at the time of vaccination and 
two  doses  at  6-8  hourly  intervals  subsequently.  The  immunogenicity  of  Synflorix  and  of  the  co-
administered Infanrix hexa was assessed one month after the third dose. Lower post-primary ELISA 
GMCs  were  noted  for  all  vaccine  pneumococcal  serotypes  in  the  group  that  received  antipyretics 
compared  with  the  non-antipyretic  group,  whereas  the  effect  on  functional  antibodies  was  more 
limited.  Responses  against  serotypes  6B,  1  and  5  seemed  particularly  affected.  For  Infanrix  hexa 
Synflorix 
Page 40 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
antigens,  reductions  in  GMCs  were  observed  for  DT,  TT,  PRN  and  Hib,  but  seropositivity/ 
seroprotective levels were not affected, except for anti-PRP.  
In  a  post-hoc  analysis  of  study  10PN-PD-DIT-001,  the  impact  of  the  use  of  paracetamol  on 
pneumococcal antibody concentrations was confirmed, although the observed differences in antibody 
GMCs  reached  statistical  significance  only  in  the  Prevenar  group  for  serotypes  4,  6B,  9V  and  18C, 
suggesting that this effect is not limited to a specific vaccine.  
Study  10PN-PD-DIT-014  is  the  booster  study  of  10PN-PD-DIT-010  and  was  submitted  during  the 
procedure. This study had a primary safety objective (described below under safety) but also aimed at 
evaluating  the  impact  of  prophylactic  paracetamol  on  the  booster  response  to  the  10-valent  vaccine 
and  to  co-administered  vaccine  antigens.  Lower  GMCs  and  GMTs  were  observed  in  the  antibody 
persistence  analysis  at  the  pre-booster  time  point  in  the  group  receiving  prophylactic  paracetamol 
(10Pn-AP), which could be expected considering the lower post-primary responses seen in this group 
compared  with  the  non-antipyretic  group  (10Pn-NAP).  The  pre-booster  ELISA  antibody  persistence 
was lowest for serotype 1 with 56% of subjects maintaining the >0.20 µg/ml antibody threshold in the 
10Pn-AP group vs. 71% in the 10Pn-NAP group. The corresponding percentages for serotype 5 were 
somewhat  higher,  75%  and  89%,  respectively.  Overall,  for  the  other  vaccine  serotypes  at  least  73% 
had antibody concentrations > 0.20 µg/ml in the 10Pn-AP group and 85% in the 10Pn-NAP group. 
As regards pre-booster OPA persistence of GMTs > 1:8, it was poor for serotypes 1, 5 and 18C (15%, 
38% and 22%, respectively) in the 10Pn-AP group, but was also low in the 10Pn-NAP group (24%, 
58% and 41% respectively). The pre-booster OPA GMTs were very low for all these serotypes. These 
findings justify the statement in section 4.4 of the SPC that the prophylactic use of paracetamol might 
reduce the immune response to Synflorix.  
The  booster  immunogenicity  data  showed  that  there  were  no  differences  observed  between  subjects 
with or without prophylactic antipyretic treatment, with respect to the percentage of subjects achieving 
anti-pneumococcal antibody concentration >0.20 µg/ml and OPA titre >1:8, except for OPA response 
to serotype 6B.  Differences in terms of pneumococcal antibody ELISA GMCs and OPA GMTs after 
booster  vaccination  were  observed  for  several  vaccine  serotypes,  but  overall  post-booster  antibody 
responses were higher than those after the primary series for all serotypes. The fold-increases (post-
booster/pre-booster  and  post-booster/post-primary)  were  comparable  in  the  antipyretic  and  non-
antipyretic  groups,  suggesting  that  the  prophylactic  administration  of  paracetamol  does  not  interfere 
with the boostability of the induced immune response. The preserved boostability also indicates that 
the quality of the memory response is not impacted by the prophylactic administration of paracetamol. 
The Applicant committed to submit the final study report for study 014 as soon as available. 
The  clinical  relevance  of  these  findings,  which  suggest  a  negative  interference  of  paracetamol  on 
vaccine  immunogenicity,  is  unknown.  The  significance  of  the  lower  post-primary  antibody 
titres/concentrations  is  unclear,  but  the post-booster data  suggest  that  the  impact  on  efficacy,  if  any, 
should be  limited.  As  prophylactic  use  of  antipyretic  drugs  is  common  vaccination practice  in  some 
countries a warning in section 4.4 of the SPC has been added. However, based on the results in study 
10PN-PD-DiT-012  demonstrating  a  higher  incidence  of  fever  after  co-administering  Synflorix  with 
DTPw  combination  vaccine,  a  statement  in  SPC  section  4.4  has  been  added,  recommending 
prophylactic antipyretics for these children and also for children with seizure disorders or with a prior 
history of febrile seizures. 
 It was clarified that antipyretics other than paracetamol, including ibuprofen, were rarely used in the 
Synflorix clinical program. The company assumes that ibuprofen, which also exerts peripheral effects, 
might  potentially  also  impact  immune  responses.  The  applicant  committed  to  conduct  a  study 
investigating 
ibuprofen  on  vaccine 
the 
immunogenicity.  
impact  of  prophylactic  antipyretic 
treatment  with 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not applicable 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Synflorix 
Page 41 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not applicable 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The results of the primary non-inferiority analysis to Prevenar using the 0.20 µg/ml threshold based on 
the new bridging study, demonstrated that the pre-specified criteria were met for all serotypes, except 
serotypes 6B and 23F. The clinical relevance of the lower ELISA responses for serotypes 6B and 23F 
can  be  questioned,  since  high  OPA  seropositivity  was  demonstrated  for  both  serotypes  as  well  as 
acceptable GMTs. Importantly efficacy was demonstrated against 6B and 23F acute otitis media in the 
POET  trial  supporting  the  functionality  of  the  immune  response.  Further  data  were  provided  that 
allowed the assumption that protective efficacy against 6B and 23F IPD and AOM will be in the same 
range as that for Prevenar, at least up to the age of 24 months. Since the WHO guideline states that 
non-inferiority  to  antibody  response  for  each  of  the  serotypes  of  Prevenar  is  not  an  absolute 
requirement, it can be concluded that the primary objective of the WHO licensure criteria was met by 
Synflorix.  The  additional  WHO  licensure  criteria,  boostability  and  immune  memory,  were  also 
fulfilled for Synflorix. 
The most critical issue with Synflorix is the low functional immune responses observed for serotypes 
1  and  5,  as  seen  with  another  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine  under  development.  These  two 
serotypes met the non-inferiority criteria by ELISA when using the aggregate response against the 7 
Prevenar  serotypes.  However,  the  post-primary  OPA  responses  were  lower  than  for  the  other 
serotypes.  The  clinical  implications  of  this  finding  are  not  known,  but  may  suggest  lower  vaccine 
efficacy  against  IPD  and  AOM  due  to  these  serotypes.  After  the  booster  dose  a  strong  anamnestic 
response was observed with 92.5% and 96.8% of subjects reaching an OPA titre >1:8 for serotypes 1 
and  5  respectively,  but  still  GMTs  remained  relatively  low.  Additional  non-inferiority  analysis  was 
performed  comparing  the  OPA  responses  for  the  new  serotypes  1,  5  and  7F  with  that  of  the  least 
immunogenic  (by  OPA)  Prevenar  serotype  19F.  For  the  post-primary  OPA  responses,  serotype  1 
failed  to  fulfill  the  non-inferiority  criteria,  whereas  with  respect  to  analyses  of  antibody  persistence 
and  post-booster  responses  all  three  serotypes  were  shown  to  be  comparable  to  Prevenar  19F. 
Although  the  clinical  relevance  of  these  data  is  not  know,  they  suggest  that  vaccine  efficacy  for 
serotypes  1 (after the booster dose), 5 and 7F would be comparable to that observed for Prevenar 19F 
in the CDC effectiveness follow-up study (VE: 87% after at least one dose and 100% after 4 doses). 
The fact that 2 different pneumococcal conjugate vaccines induce lower post-primary OPA responses 
against serotypes 1 and 5 indicate that these serotypes may have intrinsic characteristics making them 
more difficult to kill by any pneumococcal vaccine. According to current data, the majority of invasive 
disease  caused  by  serotypes  1  and  5  in  Europe  occurs  in  children  above  1 year  of  age,  i.e. after  the 
booster  dose  and  at  a  time  point  when  the  vaccine  would  be  efficacious.  Therefore  the  potential 
clinical  consequences  of  the  lower  immune  responses  on  vaccine  efficacy  against  serotypes  1  and  5 
would  be  limited  in  Europe.  However,  this  situation  may  not  be  stable  over  time  since  serotype 
epidemiology is changing. The applicant has committed to conduct post-marketing studies to evaluate 
the effectiveness of the 10-valent vaccine against serotypes 1, 5 and 7F during at least 5 years, as well 
as to evaluate the possibility of performing a study in an African setting or in other developing country 
to collect data on IPD due to the rarest serotype 5. Until these results are available, it is indicated to 
include  a  statement  in  the  SPC  (sections  4.4  and  5.1)  to  reflect  the  unknown  impact  on  vaccine 
protection against serotypes 1 and 5 disease.  
In  the  POET  trial  it  was  demonstrated  that  the  11Pn-PD  vaccine  is  efficacious  against  vaccine-
serotype pneumococcal AOM. The results did not demonstrate statistically significant vaccine efficacy 
against first episode of NTHi AOM, although efficacy against any NTHi AOM episode (analysis as 
secondary  objectives)  did  reach  statistical  significance.  The  overall  efficacy  profile  as  regards 
pneumococcal AOM was very similar to that of Prevenar, which in the EU has gained approval in the 
AOM indication. In addition, with respect to the overall AOM disease burden, a reduction of 33.6% 
was observed in the POET trial as compared to only 6% for Prevenar in the Finnish OM trial. Also 
serotype  replacement  disease  was  seen  in  the  FinOM  trial  with  a  33%  increase  of  non-vaccine 
serotype AOM, whereas there was no evidence of such an increase in the POET trial. However, the 
follow-up on POET is too short to exclude serotype replacement. Considering that efficacy was only 
followed up until the second year of life, the applicant has committed to perform a longer term follow-
Synflorix 
Page 42 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
up  of  AOM  efficacy  as  well  as  to  evaluate  serotype  replacement,  nasopharyngeal  carriage  and 
antibiotic resistance in post-marketing studies. The ongoing COMPAS study (10PN-PD-DiT-028) will 
provide efficacy data on Synflorix, planned to become available 2012.  
In the comparison of the immunogenicity (OPA) of the 11Pn-PD vaccine used in POET and Synflorix 
used in study 10PN-PD-DIT-010 based on the study subjects who were not administered prophylactic 
paracetamol,  the  non-inferiority  of  the  10-valent  vaccine  was  demonstrated  for  all  serotypes,  except 
serotype 1. The post-primary OPA GMTs ratios were lower for 3 serotypes (1, 5 and 9V) and higher 
for 3 serotypes (4, 18C and 19F) in the Synflorix group versus the 11Pn-PD group. The post-primary 
ELISA GMC ratios were comparable for all serotypes, with higher post-primary responses for types 
18C  and  19F  and  somewhat  lower  response  for  type  6B  in  the  Synflorix  group.  Comparable  post-
booster  responses  for  the  two  vaccines  were  observed  for  all  serotypes.  Based  on  these  data,  the 
bridging of anti-pneumococcal responses between 11Pn-PD in POET study and Synflorix in study 010 
to support efficacy against AOM was accepted. The low post-primary OPA GMTs for serotypes 1 and 
5 might not provide protection against AOM, considering that protection against mucosal infections is 
more difficult to obtain than protection against IPD, requiring higher antibody titres. It is noted that 
current data indicate that serotypes 1 and 5 are rare causes of AOM. A statement about the unknown 
impact  on  vaccine  protection  against  serotypes  1  and  5  in  sections  4.4  and  5.1  in  the  SPC  has  been 
added.  
The limitations of the predictive capacity of pre-licensure immunogenicity data strongly indicate the 
need  for  post-marketing  studies.  Only  post-licensing  efficacy/effectiveness  studies  can  reveal  the 
magnitude  of  protective  efficacy  provided  by  Synflorix.  The  company  has  committed  to  perform  a 
large post-licensure effectiveness study in Finland and a surveillance study in the EU to monitor IPD 
following  country-wide  vaccination  with  the  Synflorix.  Further  studies  will  evaluate  long-term 
immunogenicity,  efficacy  and  safety.  Specific  studies  designed  to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  the 
candidate vaccine against serotypes 1, 5 and 7F and to evaluate impact of Synflorix on nasopharyngeal 
carriage will also be performed.   
An  important  deficiency  of  the  submitted  documentation  is  the  lack  of  data  on  vaccine 
immunogenicity  in  certain  high-risk  children,  i.e.  those  with  sickle  cell  disease,  asplenia,  nephrotic 
syndrome,  immunosuppression,  cochlear  implant  and  cerebrospinal  leaks.  There  are  ongoing  studies 
evaluating  safety  and  immunogenicty  of  Synflorix  in  pre-term,  low  birth  weight  infants  and  HIV 
infected subjects. 
Clinical safety 
In  almost  all  of  the  studies  Synflorix  was  co-administered  with  a  DTPa-based  combination  vaccine. 
Other  co-administered  vaccines  were  human  rotavirus  vaccine  (HRV),  meningococcal  serogroup  C 
conjugate  vaccines  and  MMRV.  In  each  of  these  studies  the  safety  and  reactogenicity  profile  was  a 
primary  and  secondary  objective.  Analysis  of  solicited  local  and  general  adverse  events  (AEs)  and 
unsolicited adverse events including serious adverse events (SAEs) was performed for each individual 
study.  Evaluation  of  safety  of  Synflorix  was  based  on  comparison  with  Prevenar.  Analyses  were 
performed from pooled safety data. 
•  Patient exposure 
Safety  data  with  Synflorix  have  been  collected  within  14  studies  evaluating  primary,  booster  and 
catch-up  vaccination,  4145  subjects  received  12,  137  doses  of  Synflorix,  3725  subjects  received  a 
booster dose of Synflorix and 450 subjects were vaccinated with 887 catch-up doses of Synflorix.  In 
addition,  more  than  55,  000  doses  of  Synflorix  are  planned  to  be  administered  in  all  clinical  trials 
populations of ongoing and planned primary, booster and catch-up vaccination studies.  
Supportive safety data from 27 clinical trials conducted with different 11-valent vaccine formulations 
in which 8329 received primary or catch-up vaccination and 4603 subjects received a booster dose of a 
related 11-valent vaccine (28929 doses).  
Synflorix 
Page 43 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adverse events  
Solicited adverse events 
Local  AEs  (pain,  redness  and  swelling  at  injection  site)  and  general  AEs  (drowsiness,  fever, 
irritability/fussiness  and  loss  of  appetite)  were  solicited  during  the  4  day  (day  0-3)  post-vaccination 
period in each study. Additional solicited general AEs were received from study 10PN-PD-DIT-010 
(vomiting  and  diarrhoea)  because  of  co-administered  Rotarix  vaccine  and  study  10PN-PD-DIT-022 
included rash/exanthema, parotid/salivary gland swelling and any sign of meningism including febrile 
convulsions  because  of  co-administered  MMRV  vaccine.  Large  swelling  reaction  (>  50  mm)  was 
solicited in subjects as of 11 months of age in booster and catch-up vaccination studies.  
Solicited local adverse event 
Primary vaccination 
The most frequently reported solicited local AE in primary vaccination 10PN-PD-DiT studies with co-
administration of DTPa-based combination vaccines was redness with an overall incidence per dose of 
38.3%. No consistent increase in incidence of solicited local AEs was observed with consecutive doses 
over the full primary immunization course. The incidences of at least one and of grade 3 solicited local 
AEs were in the same range with those reported after DTPa-based vaccine administration. Pain was 
the most frequently reported solicited local AE in primary vaccination study with co-administration of 
DTPw-based combination vaccine with an incidence of 51.8%.  
The  results  from  the  comparative  analysis  of  solicited  local  AEs  in  primary  vaccination  with  co-
administration  of  DTPa-based  combination  vaccines  are  summarized  in  Table  11.  Redness  was  the 
most frequently reported solicited local AE in both groups. The overall incidences per subject of pain 
and of swelling > 20mm were slightly higher in the Synflorix groups. Differences between groups in 
terms of grade 3 pain and swelling > 30 mm were small and not significant.  
Table  11:  Comparison  of  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  solicited  local  adverse  events  -  pain,  redness 
and swelling - within the day 4 (0-3) follow-up period in Prevenar controlled primary vaccination studies  
001, 003, 011 with co-administration of DTPa-based combination vaccines (TVC cohort) 
Group 
Relative Risk 
(Synflorix over Prevenar) 
95% CI 
Pooled  
Redness  
Study 
Pooled  
Symptoms 
Pain  
RR 
1.12 
1.33 
0.99 
1.14 
1.07 
1.08 
1.26 
1.16 
n/% = number/percentage of subjects reporting at least one specified symptom whatever the number of injections 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval for Relative risk (RR) (Exact Stratified Conditional to total number of cases, taking into account the study effect),  
P-value = 2-sided Exact Stratified Test conditional to number of cases, taking into account the study effect 
Type 
All 
Grade 3 
All 
> 20 mm 
> 30 mm 
All 
> 20 mm 
> 30 mm 
P-value 
0.046 
0.121 
0.827 
0.356 
0.811 
0.190 
0.040 
0.418 
N 
2442 
2442 
2442 
2442 
2442 
2442 
2442 
2442 
% 
54.9 
6.3 
64.8 
10.6 
4.1 
53.8 
15.2 
6.8 
UL 
1.25 
1.95 
1.09 
1.48 
1.66 
1.21 
1.59 
1.63 
LL 
1.00 
0.93 
0.90 
0.88 
0.71 
0.96 
1.01 
0.84 
% 
48.4 
4.5 
65.4 
9.1 
3.7 
49.5 
11.8 
5.7 
N 
865 
865 
865 
865 
865 
865 
865 
865 
Swelling  
Pooled  
Prevenar 
n 
419 
39 
566 
79 
32 
428 
102 
49 
Synflorix 
n 
1340 
154 
1582 
259 
100 
1313 
372 
165 
There  were  no  differences  between  Synflorix  and  Prevenar  groups  in  the  percentage  of  subjects 
reporting  local  solicited  symptoms  after  primary  vaccination  with  co-administration  of  DTPw-based 
vaccine, in study 10PN-PD-DIT-012 with a Prevenar control group except for swelling. The clinical 
relevance  of  this  difference  can  be  considered  limited  since  difference  between  groups  in  terms  of 
swelling >30 mm was small and not clinically meaningful.  
Booster vaccination 
The descriptive pooling included the Synflorix groups from studies 10PN-PD-DIT-002, -004, -007, -
013,  -014,  -017  and  -022  (only  Synflorix  +  Infanrix  hexa  group).  Redness  was  the  most  frequently 
reported solicited local AE with an incidence of 56.4%. Comparative safety data between booster dose 
of  Synflorix  and  Prevenar  was  based  on  Prevenar  controlled  booster  vaccination  studies  10PN-PD-
Page 44 of 61 
Synflorix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIT-007  and  -017.  Redness  and  pain  were  the  most  frequently  reported  solicited  local  AEs  in  both 
groups  with  an  incidence  for  redness  of  56.0%  in  the  Synflorix  groups  and  52.0%  in  the  Prevenar 
group  (RR=1.03  [0.89,  1.20]).  Incidence  of  pain  was  56.9%  in  Synflorix  groups  and  47.8%  in 
Prevenar group (RR=1.16 [1.00, 1.36]). No statistically significant differences were observed for any 
of the solicited local AEs or for those of grade 3 intensity. 
The  incidences  of  at  least  one  and  of  grade  3  solicited  local  AEs  reported  after  administration  of 
Synflorix  were  within  the  same  range  with  those  reported  after  DTPa-based  vaccine  administration. 
Observed  incidences  of  injection  site  reactions  were  higher  after  booster  vaccination  with  Synflorix 
than after a primary vaccine dose, but remained within the same range as those reported at the DTPa-
based booster injection site. 
Catch-up vaccination 
The results of the descriptive analysis of solicited local AEs in the three catch-up vaccination groups 
in study 10PN-PD-DIT-013 (7-11 months of age, 12-23 months of age and ≥ 24 months of age) are 
summarized in table 12.  
Table  12:  Overall/dose  incidence  of  solicited  local  AEs  –  pain,  redness,  swelling  –  reported  within  the  4 
day (day 0 – 3) follow-up period in Synflorix catch-up vaccination study groups (Total vaccinated cohort) 
7-11 months 
12-23 months 
≥ 24 months 
Symptoms 
Pain 
STUDY 
013 
Redness (mm) 
013 
Swelling (mm) 
013 
Type 
All 
Grade 3 
All 
> 20mm 
> 30mm 
All 
> 20mm 
> 30mm 
1.7 
0.6 
n  % 
n  % 
95 % CI 
LL  UL  N 
95 % CI 
LL  UL  N 
95 % CI 
n  % 
LL  UL 
N 
93  31.5  26.3  37.2  292  177  60.6  54.8  66.3  148  102  68.9  60.8  76.3 
295 
3.9  292  33  11.3  7.9  15.5  148  24  16.2  10.7  23.2 
5 
295 
295  153  51.9  46.0  57.7  292  109  37.3  31.8  43.2  148  65  43.9  35.8  52.3 
5.3  15.4 
4.1 
295 
28  9.5 
13  4.4 
295 
2.8  11.2 
1.7 
87  29.5  24.3  35.1  292  77  26.4  21.4  31.8  148  32  21.6  15.3  29.1 
295 
3.3  12.1 
28  9.5 
295 
1.9  9.5 
16  5.4 
295 
4.2  10.4  148  10  6.8 
4.7 
7.5  148  7 
2.4 
7.1  148  14  9.5 
6.1 
4.0  148  9 
6.4  13.4  292  12 
7.4  292  5 
2.4 
6.4  13.4  292  20 
8.7  292  13 
3.1 
2.1 
0.6 
6.8 
4.5 
N= number of documented doses; n/%= number/percentage of doses followed by at least one type of symptom,; Total : n/%= number/percentage of 
subjects/doses with at least one local symptom whatever the number of injections 
7-11 months = Synflorix 2 doses with 4 weeks interval ; 12-23 months = Synflorix 2 doses with 8 weeks interval 
≥ 24 months = Synflorix one dose at 24 months - 5 years of age 
As previously reported for the licensed Prevenar vaccine, high incidences of pain were reported in the 
12-23 months and ≥ 24 months of age groups. 
Based on the relative risk, no differences in the occurrence of any solicited local AEs was observed 
with  consecutive  doses  over  the  full  primary  immunization  course  with  Synflorix  or  Prevenar  with 
DTPa-based  combination  vaccines,  with  the  exception  of  any  pain  and  swelling  >20  mm  which 
occurred more often in the Synflorix groups in primary vaccination and pain in booster vaccination.  
There were no differences between the groups in the percentage of subjects reporting solicited local 
symptoms after primary vaccination with co-administration of DTPw-based vaccines, in studies with a 
Prevenar  control  group  except  for  swelling.  The  clinical  relevance  of  these  differences  can  be 
considered limited since differences between groups in terms of grade 3 pain and swelling > 30 mm 
were small.  
Solicited general adverse events 
Primary vaccination 
The results show that the most frequently reported solicited general AE in primary vaccination 10PN-
PD-DIT studies with co-administration of DTPa-based combination vaccines was irritability with an 
overall per dose incidence of 56.0%. The overall per dose incidence of any fever: rectal temperature 
≥38°,  >39°C  and  >40°C  were  34.2%,  2.6%  and  0.1%,  respectively.  For  fever,  causally  related  to 
vaccination,  the  incidences  were  33.1%,  2.4%  and  0.0%,  respectively.  Higher  fever  incidences  was 
observed  for  Synflorix  doses  co-administered  with  DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib  compared  to  Synflorix 
without  co-administration.  Data  from  study  10PN-PD-DIT-005  suggest  a  trend  for  higher  fever 
incidences following DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib co-administered with Synflorix compared to DTPa-HBV-
IPV/Hib co-administered with HAV. Irritability was also the most frequently reported solicited local 
Synflorix 
Page 45 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AE in primary vaccination study with co-administration of DTPw-based combination vaccine with an 
incidence of 74.0%. The overall per dose incidence of any fever: rectal temperature ≥38°, >39°C and 
>40°C were 60.5%, 5.8% and 0.0%, respectively. 
The results from the comparative analysis of solicited general AEs in Prevenar-controlled studies with 
co-administration of DTPa-based combination vaccines show that irritability was the most frequently 
reported  solicited  general  AE  in  both  Synflorix  and  Prevenar  groups  with  an  overall  incidence  per 
subject of 80.5% in the Synflorix groups and 78.0% in the Prevenar groups (RR=1.03 [0.94, 1.12]). 
No statistically significant differences were observed for any of the solicited general AEs or for those 
of grade 3 intensity.  
Booster vaccination 
The  most  frequently  reported  AE  was  irritability  with  an  incidence  of  57.6%.  The  incidence  of  any 
fever (≥ 38°C) was 39.7% and of > 39°C and > 40°C were 5.2% and 0.5%, respectively. For any fever 
causally related to vaccination the incidence was 36.8%. A moderate increase of the incidences of loss 
of  appetite  and  fever  was  observed  after  booster  vaccination  with  Synflorix  compared  to  primary 
vaccination. 
The  results  from  the  comparative  analysis  of  solicited  general  AEs  in  the  Prevenar  controlled  study 
show  that  irritability  was  the  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  AE  with  an  incidence  of 
55.9%  in  the  Synflorix  groups  and  47.5%  in  the  Prevenar  groups  (RR=1.12  [0.96,  1.30]).  No 
statistically significant differences were observed for any of the solicited general AEs or for those of 
grade 3 intensity.  
Catch-up vaccination  
The results of the descriptive analysis of solicited general AEs in the three groups receiving Synflorix 
in catch-up vaccination are summarized in table 13 below. 
Table 13: Overall/dose incidence of solicited general AEs – drowsiness, irritability, fever, loss of appetite – reported 
within the 4 day (day 0 – 3) follow-up period in catch-up vaccination study groups (Total vaccinated cohort) 
7-11 months 
12-23 months 
≥ 24 months 
Symptom 
Drowsiness 
Irritability 
Loss of appetite 
Fever (rectal temperature) 
Type 
All 
Grade 3 
Related 
Grade 3 & Related 
All 
Grade 3 
Related 
Grade 3 & Related 
All 
Grade 3 
Related 
Grade 3 & Related 
≥ 38.0°C  
> 38.5°C 
> 39.0°C 
> 39.5°C 
> 40.0°C 
≥ 38.0°C & Related 
> 39.0°C & Related 
> 40.0°C & Related 
Specific solicited adverse events 
3 
3 
1 
1 
n 
n 
N 
N 
% 
1.9 
0.3 
0.0 
0.7 
0.0 
0.2 
1.9 
0.3 
0.0 
3.0 
292 
292 
n  % 
148  1 
95 % CI 
UL 
LL 
95 % CI 
UL 
LL 
95 % CI 
N 
UL 
LL 
% 
295  121  41.0  35.3  46.9  292  111  38.0  32.4  43.9  148  55  37.2  29.4  45.5 
295 
3.7 
1.0 
295  119  40.3  34.7  46.2  292  108  37.0  31.4  42.8  148  55  37.2  29.4  45.5 
295 
3.7 
1.0 
295  168  56.9  51.1  62.7  292  152  52.1  46.2  57.9  148  62  41.9  33.8  50.3 
295 
4.8 
2.4 
295  167  56.6  50.7  62.3  292  149  51.0  45.1  56.9  148  62  41.9  33.8  50.3 
4.8 
148  2 
2.1 
5 
295 
26.4  21.4  31.8  148  41  27.7  20.7  35.7 
295  77 
1.4 
295 
2.5 
148  0 
0 
24.7  19.8  30.0  148  40  27.0  20.1  34.9 
295  74 
2.5 
0.0 
148  0 
1.0 
0 
295 
12.1 
18.5  14.2  23.4  148  10  6.8 
295  68 
6 
3.9 
1.7 
26.1  21.2  31.5  292  77 
0.0 
4 
1.2 
25.1  20.2  30.4  292  72 
3 
1.2 
0.0 
23.1  18.4  28.3  292  54 
0.0 
3.3 
148  1 
148  2 
292 
292 
292 
292 
3.0 
4.9 
4.4 
3.5 
3.0 
0.2 
0.7 
0.0 
0.6 
1.0 
0.8 
1.7 
3.9 
0.2 
1.4 
0.6 
1.4 
0.2 
0.0 
0.0 
0.4 
0.2 
0.0 
0.0 
5 
7 
295  10 
4 
295 
1 
295 
295 
0 
295  67 
295 
295 
4 
0 
1.6 
0.4 
0.0 
0.0 
292  13 
6.1 
3.4 
6 
292 
3.4 
1.4 
4 
292 
1.9 
0.3 
0.0 
0 
292 
1.2 
22.7  18.1  27.9  292  48 
2.4 
0.8 
0.4 
0.0 
2.7 
4.5 
0.7 
2.1 
0.0 
1.4 
0.0 
0.0 
16.4  12.4  21.2  148  10  6.8 
148  4 
148  1 
148  0 
148  0 
7.5 
4.4 
3.5 
1.3 
1.4 
0.0 
0.4 
0.0 
3.4 
1.2 
292 
292 
4 
0 
1.4 
0.0 
0.4 
0.0 
3.5 
1.3 
148  1 
148  0 
0.7 
0.0 
0.7 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
3.3 
0.0 
0.0 
6.8 
3.7 
2.5 
2.5 
12.1 
3.7 
2.5 
Fever 
A statistically significant increase in the incidence of fever (≥ 38.0°C) was observed in infants when 
Synflorix  was  co-administered  with  standard  infant  vaccines  such  as  DTPa/Hib,  IPV  and  HBV, 
compared  to  their  separate  administration.  The  increase  in  the  incidence  of  fever  ≥38.0°C  was 
Synflorix 
Page 46 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significant  for  the  first  three  doses  of  the  primary  vaccination  course,  whereas  an  increase  in  the 
incidence of fever > 39°C was only significant at the second dose. The differences in the incidence of 
fever  ≥  38.0°C  and  >  39°C  were  not  significant  after  the  booster  vaccination.  In  the  clinical  trials, 
febrile reactions were moderate with rectal temperatures generally ≤ 39°C. The occurrence of grade 3 
fever (> 40°C) was very low and comparable in the co-administration and control groups. Generally, 
the onset of fever was within 24 hours and of relatively short duration was < 72 hours.  
Large swelling reactions (studies -002, -004, -007 and -022)  
Large swelling reactions were reported by 7 (out of 2086) subjects after the booster dose. The onset of 
swelling occurred within three days after vaccination and all resolved within three days. In addition, 
large swelling reactions were reported by 32 (out of 2329) subjects at the site of the co-administered 
DTPa-based vaccine across all studies. Four (out of 300) subjects reported a large swelling reaction at 
the Synflorix injection site after catch-up immunization: one subject in the 12-23 months of age group 
and three subjects in the ≥ 24 months of age group.  
Unsolicited adverse events by organ system or syndrome  
Primary vaccination 
The incidence of unsolicited AEs considered causally related to vaccination was 4.0% with the most 
frequently reported event injection site induration (1.3%).   
Booster vaccination 
Unsolicited AEs causally related to vaccination was 5.6% and most frequently reported was injection 
site induration (1.0%).  The percentage of subjects reporting at least one causally related unsolicited 
AE  was  4.2%  for  the  Synflorix  groups  and  5.3%  for  the  Prevenar  group  (RR=0.65  [0.40,  1.08]). 
Injection  site  induration  was  reported  more  often  in  the  Prevenar  group  (RR=0.13  [0.04,  0.40], 
p=0.0001).  
Catch up vaccination 
The  incidence  of  at  least  one  unsolicited  AE  causally  related  to  vaccination  was  14.5%  in  the  7-11 
months of age group, 12.2% in the 12-23 months group and 11.3% in the ≥ 24 months group.  
No cases of febrile or non-febrile convulsions were reported in the catch-up vaccination groups. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Incidence of Serious Adverse Events by Primary System Organ Class 
Primary vaccination 
The  incidence  of  SAEs  in  Synflorix  groups  is  summarised  in  Table  14.  The  SOC  with  the  highest 
incidence of SAEs was “Infections and infestations” (6.9%) 
Table 14: Incidence of serious adverse events in primary studies presented by System Organ Class (TVC cohort) 
Synflorix Pool 
 N = 4145 
Primary System Organ Class (CODE) 
At least one symptom 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders (10005329) 
Congenital, familial and genetic disorders (10010331) 
Eye disorders (10015919) 
Gastrointestinal disorders (10017947) 
General disorders and administration site conditions (10018065) 
Hepatobiliary disorders (10019805) 
Immune system disorders (10021428) 
Infections and infestations (10021881) 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications (10022117) 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders (10027433) 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (10028395) 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and polyps) (10029104)
Nervous system disorders (10029205) 
n 
374 
8 
3 
1 
37 
8 
1 
4 
287 
27 
14 
1 
2 
11 
% 
9.0 
0.2 
0.1 
0.0 
0.9 
0.2 
0.0 
0.1 
6.9 
0.7 
0.3 
0.0 
0.0 
0.3 
Synflorix 
Page 47 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary System Organ Class (CODE) 
Psychiatric disorders (10037175) 
Renal and urinary disorders (10038359) 
Reproductive system and breast disorders (10038604) 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders (10038738) 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders (10040785) 
Vascular disorders (10047065) 
Synflorix Pool 
 N = 4145 
n 
4 
2 
1 
42 
13 
2 
% 
0.1 
0.0 
0.0 
1.0 
0.3 
0.0 
For Prevenar controlled trials the incidence of SAEs was within the same range in both groups. The 
number of subjects reporting at least one SAE in Synflorix groups was 300 (9.8%), and 96 in Prevenar 
groups (9.0%).  
Booster vaccination 
The incidence of SAEs by SOC reported throughout the study period in booster studies evaluating the 
Synflorix  vaccine  is  described  in  Table  15.  The  SOC  with  the  highest  incidence  of  SAEs  was 
“Infections and infestations” (2.0%).  
Table 15: Incidence of serious adverse events in booster studies presented by System Organ Class (Total 
vaccinated cohort)  
Synflorix Pool 
 N = 3725 
Primary System Organ Class (CODE) 
At least one symptom 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders (10005329) 
Gastrointestinal disorders (10017947) 
General disorders and administration site conditions (10018065) 
Infections and infestations (10021881) 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications (10022117) 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders (10027433) 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (10028395) 
Nervous system disorders (10029205) 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders (10038738) 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders (10040785) 
n 
123 
1 
7 
2 
76 
16 
4 
2 
11 
19 
2 
% 
3.3 
0.0 
0.2 
0.1 
2.0 
0.4 
0.1 
0.1 
0.3 
0.5 
0.1 
In Prevenar controlled studies 74 subjects, i.e. 3.5% in Synflorix groups, and 18 subjects, i.e. 4.0%, in 
the  Prevenar  group  reported  at  least  one  SAE.  The  SOC  with  the  highest  incidence  of  SAEs  was 
“Infections and infestations” (2.3% and 3.1%, respectively).  
Catch-up vaccination 
The incidence of SAEs by SOC reported throughout the study period in catch-up groups was 4.0% in 
the 7-11Mo group, 1.3% in the 12-23Mo group and 0.0% in the ≥24Mo group. Also in these groups 
the SOC with the highest incidence of SAEs was “Infections and infestations”. 
Deaths 
In completed primary vaccination studies 2 died out of the 4145 vaccinated subjects in the Synflorix 
groups and 1 out of the 1072 subjects in the Prevenar groups. None of the fatalities was considered by 
the investigator to be causally related to vaccination. 
No fatal SAEs were reported in any of the study groups in completed booster vaccination studies. No 
fatal SAEs were reported in completed catch-up vaccination study groups.  
Synflorix 
Page 48 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Significant Adverse Events 
Apnoea 
Altogether 4 cases were reported from completed studies, 3 in the Synflorix group and one from the 
Prevenar group. All cases were full-term born babies.  
From the ongoing studies were a total of thirteen case reports received where time to onset of apnoea 
or apnoeic attacks varied from 7 hrs to 54 days after vaccination. Only one case was considered to be 
possibly related and that child had received blinded vaccine. All subjects received multiple vaccines 
which may have contributed to the ADRs. In none of the cases in ongoing studies the investigator and 
the applicant considered that there was any reasonable possibility that apnoea may have been caused 
by the investigational product.  
The findings in the present application support the warning in the SPC for Synflorix sections 4.4 and 
4.8  although  reports  on  the  experience  of  apnoea  also  in  full-term  babies    justifies  continuous 
monitoring  of  all  cases  of  apnoea  and/or  apnoeic  attacks  and  subsequently  accounting    for  in 
cumulative tables in future PSURs.  
Break-through infections 
Any  case  of  severe  pneumonia,  AOM,  sepsis  and/or  meningitis  in  vaccinated  individuals  should  be 
subject to detailed diagnosis. The results from the ongoing study 10PN-PD-DiT-028, COMPAS will 
contribute  to the  evaluation  of  the  possible  risk  of  break-through infections.  The  Company  commits 
(RMP,  post-marketing  study)  to  perform  a  5-year  IPD  surveillance  study  in  a  country  that  would 
routinely  use  Synflorix  and  where  this  country  has  a  nationwide  pneumococcal  disease  surveillance 
system.  
Reports on meningitis or meningo/encephalitis caused by pneumococci 
Seven  reports  of  meningitis  or  meningoencephalitis,  were  received.  Three  came  from  completed 
studies  and  4  from  ongoing  studies.  In  one  of  these  cases,  meningitis  was  reported  to  be  caused  by 
pneumococci. However, culture results were not provided in this case. The other cases were reported 
to be viral (3), suspected bacterial (1), aseptic (1) and non-specified (1) in nature.  
The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  CHMP  with  a  study  plan  for  a  surveillance  study.  The 
pharmaco-vigilance plan includes the plan for a post marketing study to monitor for possible serotype 
replacement and break- through infection/vaccine failure. This is expected to last for 3-5 years.  
The company defines in the post-licensure surveillance, a vaccine breakthrough as the occurrence of 
an IPD case caused by a vaccine serotype reported in a fully vaccinated child, with an onset more than 
14 days after the last dose (or more than 7 days if the last dose is a booster dose). The definition of a 
fully vaccinated child will be according to the appropriate-for-age schedule in line with the posology 
section  of  the  SPC.    The  definition  of  a  breakthrough  case  has  been  included  in  the  surveillance 
protocol.    For  pneumonia  and  AOM,  a  similar  case  definition  of  a  breakthrough  case  will  be  used, 
provided that they are bacteriologically confirmed. 
•  Laboratory findings 
No specific laboratory findings. Results were provided for data on immune response only. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Data from 10PN-PD-DIT studies in different populations have been compared with regard to possible 
differences  in  the  safety profiles  in  relation  to  ethnicity.  White  Caucasian  children,  all  from  Poland, 
were  vaccinated  at  the  ages  of  2-4-6  months  while  children  of  Asian  Heritage  all  came  from  the 
Philippines.  The  South  Asian  children  were  vaccinated  at  an  earlier  age  according  to  the  6-10-14 
week’s  schedule.  The  Polish  children  were  concomitantly  vaccinated  with  DTPw-HBV/Hib+IPV 
vaccine while the Philippino children received DTPw. 
With  regard  to  the  local  solicited  symptoms  redness  and  swelling  the  incidence  was  significantly 
higher after primary doses in the Polish children (2-4-6 months vaccination group) as compared to the 
children  from  the  Philippines.  Concerning  general  solicited  symptoms  were  higher  incidences 
observed  for  all  solicited  symptoms  –  except  for  fever  -  in  Synflorix  vaccinees  in  Poland.  The 
Synflorix 
Page 49 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differences in safety profile may be related to the differences in vaccination schedules and/or the co-
administered vaccines. It has to be noted that both vaccination groups received Pw i.e. pertussis whole 
cell  vaccine.  The  trends  observed  for  Synflorix  between  the  populations  were  also  observed  for 
Prevenar. 
Ongoing studies in Latin America (Mexico) and in Africa will provide more data about whether the 
safety profile of Synflorix would be similar irrespective of ethnicity. Results from the studies were 
expected as of 2009. 
As the vaccine is not intended for use in adults, information on the effects in pregnancy and lactation 
is not available. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Effect of prophylactic paracetamol on reactogenicity 
The  incidence  of  pain  seemed  to  be  lower  in  the  group  with  prophylactic  paracetamol  (10Pn-AP 
group,  17.9%)  than  in  the  group  without  prophylactic  paracetamol  (10PnNAP  group  28.6%). 
Irritability was the most frequently reported solicited general AE in both groups, but less frequently in 
the  10Pn-AP  group  than  in  the  10PnNAP  group.  The  incidences  of  reports  on  overall/dose  grade  3 
solicited general AEs considered to be causally related to vaccination (maximum of 1.5%) were low. 
Primary  objective  of  reduction  in  febrile  reactions  ≥ 38.0°C  when  paracetamol  is  administered 
compared to non- prophylactic administration of paracetamol was met with since the lower limit of the 
95% CI of the difference (10PnNAP group minus 10Pn-AP group), in terms of percentage of subjects 
with fever ≥ 38.0°C (rectal temperature) within 4 days (days 0 to 3) after at least one vaccination, was 
higher than 0% (15.5%).  
Study  10PN-PD-DIT-014  (=booster  of  study  10PN-PD-DIT-010)  submitted  during  the  procedure 
assessed  the  impact  of  prophylactic  antipyretic  medication  on  booster  vaccination  with  Synflorix. 
Results  demonstrated  that  the  administration  of  paracetamol  as  prophylactic  antipyretic  treatment  in 
the  24 hours  following  booster  vaccination  with  Synflorix  co-administered  with  the  DTPa-HBV-
IPV/Hib  vaccine,  significantly  reduced  the  incidence  of  febrile  reactions  with  rectal  temperature 
≥ 38.0°C (36.0% of subjects the AP-AP group versus 58.1% of subjects in the NAP-pre group). The 
primary  objective  was  reached  as  the  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  for  the  difference  between  groups 
(NAP-pre minus AP-AP) in terms of the percentage of subjects reporting fever with rectal temperature 
≥ 38.0°C was above the pre-defined limit of 0% (LL of 11.78%). 
The prophylactic administration of paracetamol also reduced the percentage of subjects reporting pain 
after  booster  vaccination.  The  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  unsolicited  adverse  events  and 
medically  attended  visits  for  unsolicited  adverse  events  was  in  the  same  range  for  the  AP-AP,  AP-
NAP and NAP groups. Up to the data lock point, two subjects in the AP-AP group reported a serious 
adverse  event  after  booster  vaccination.  None  of  these  serious  adverse  events  were  assessed  by  the 
investigator to be causally related to vaccination and both resolved without sequels. 
 In summary it was shown that the administration of antipyretic paracetamol treatment in the 24 hours 
following booster vaccination significantly reduced the incidence of febrile reaction in the vaccinated 
subjects. Furthermore, the number of subjects reporting post booster vaccination pain was reduced. 
No  specific  safety  data  for  the  pneumococcal  conjugate  unprimed  MenACWY-TT  groups  were 
retrieved by this study. 
Additional solicited AEs specific to co-administered human rotavirus vaccine 
In  study  10PN-PD-DiT-010  human  rotavirus  vaccine  (Rotarix)  was  co-administered  with  Synflorix 
and  Infanrix  hexa  at  3  and  4  months  of  age.  Therefore,  diarrhoea  and  vomiting  were  monitored  as 
solicited general symptoms.  
Additional solicited AEs specific to co-administered MMRV vaccine 
In  study  10PN-PD-DIT-022,  MMRV  vaccine  (Priorix-Tetra)  was  co-administered  with  Synflorix  or 
Infanrix  hexa.  Subjects  were  randomized  (1:1:1).  Occurrence  of  rash/exanthema,  parotid/salivary 
gland  swelling  and  any  sign  of  meningism  including  febrile  convulsions  reported  within  a  43  day 
follow-up period was solicited.  In the 4 day follow-up period, the incidence of fever (any and >39°C) 
was lower in the two MV groups than in the 10Pn-Hx control group after dose 1 and 2. For any fever 
the difference was significant for the  10Pn-MV group compared to the 10Pn-Hx control group after 
Page 50 of 61 
Synflorix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose 1. Fever (any and >39°C) was reported more commonly after the first dose of MMRV vaccine 
than after the second dose in groups that received two MMRV doses. 
Primary vaccination 
One case of febrile convulsions was reported as SAE in the Synflorix group (4,145 subjects) within the 
31  day  follow-up  period  after  primary  vaccine  dose.  This  event  was  considered  possibly  causally 
related  to  study  vaccines  by  the  investigator.  No  febrile  convulsions  were  reported  in  the  Prevenar 
group (1,072 subjects) within the same time window. 
Non-febrile  convulsions  were  reported  by  5  subjects  (out  of  4,145)  in  Synflorix  groups  and  by  1 
subject  (out  of  1,072)  in  Prevenar  groups  within  the  31  day  follow-up  period  after  each  primary 
vaccine  dose.  Two  cases,  both  reported  as  non-serious  unsolicited  AEs  in  the  Synflorix  group,  of 
which  1  newly  reported  after  1  October  2007,  were  considered  to  be  causally  related  to  study 
vaccination.  After  the  31  day  post-vaccination  period,  one  subject  (out  of  4,145)  in  the  Synflorix 
groups  reported  non-febrile  convulsions.  Compared  to  the  initial  file,  2  new  cases  were  reported  as 
non-serious unsolicited AEs within the 31 day follow-up period in the Synflorix group. 
Booster vaccination 
None  of  the  subjects  in  booster  vaccination  groups  reported  non-febrile  convulsions.  The  cases  of 
febrile convulsions has significantly increased compared to the initial file (3,725 subjects compared to 
2,086 subjects in October 2007). On the day of vaccination 2 subjects (out of 3,725) reported febrile 
convulsions  after  the  booster  dose  of  Synflorix.  Both  were  considered  to  be  causally  related  by  the 
investigator and were described in the initial file. 
Three reports on febrile convulsions (one after primary and two after booster vaccination) occurred in 
temporal association with Synflorix administration and were considered to be possibly related to the 
vaccination. Two cases received Infanrix hexa and one case received Tritanrix-HepB/Hib and Poliorix 
concomitantly.  A  total  of  14  non-related  cases  (7  after  primary  and  7  after  booster  vaccination)  of 
fever convulsions occurred between 13 days and 13 months after Synflorix vaccination. The prolonged 
time to onset and concurrent febrile diseases made the causal relationship unlikely. However, the fact 
that 3 cases of febrile convulsions could be considered related to vaccination justified its enclosure in 
section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Two  possibly  related  non-febrile  convulsions  have  been  reported  in  close  temporal  association  with 
administration of Synflorix. These subjects had received concomitant injections of Infanrix hexa and 
Tritanrix-HepB/Hib, respectively. 
The number of related cases of febrile and non-febrile convulsions is small, but nevertheless the events 
are  to  be  noted.  The  Company  has  committed  to  within  routine  post-marketing  pharmacovigilance 
continuously monitor and cumulatively report all such adverse events. 
Synflorix 
Page 51 of 61 
 
 
 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Table  16:  Number  of  subjects  withdrawn  from  primary,  booster  and  catch-up  Synflorix  vaccination  groups  (total 
vaccinated cohort) due to SAE of AE  
 Study 
N subjects vaccinated 
N subjects completed 
Number of subjects withdrawn 
AE 
SAE 
Ctrl 
Ctrl 
Ctrl 
Ctrl 
10Pn 
10Pn 
10Pn 
1 
- 
0 
0 
- 
0 
1 
- 
- 
2 
2 
- 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
- 
2 
5 
1 
0 
0 
1 
2 
2 
0 
1 
12 
5 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
3 
0 
11 
409 
- 
64 
120 
- 
376 
199 
- 
- 
1168 
415 
- 
64 
121 
- 
390 
203 
- 
- 
1193 
1214 
348 
68 
117 
456 
1123 
594 
145 
270 
4335 
1235 
351 
70 
119 
459 
1158 
603 
150 
286 
4431 
10Pn 
Primary vaccination 
001 
002* 
003 
005 
010 
011 
012 
013* 
015 
Total 
Booster vaccination 
002* 
004 
007 
013* <6m 
013* 7-11m 
014 
017 
022 
Total 
Catch-up vaccination in 013* 
7-11m 
12-23m 
≥ 24m 
Total 
N vaccinated = number of subjects that received at least one dose of Synflorix or control ; N completed = number of subjects 
that completed the last study visit 
N withdrawn = number of subjects that did not complete the last study visit, including the reason why. 
* Study 002 and 013 included both primary and booster or catch-up study groups; the numbers of subjects are the numbers for 
the relevant phases/groups. 
345 
397 
1020 
145 
145 
414 
1080 
324 
3870 
342 
395 
1018 
141 
145 
414 
1074 
320 
3849 
- 
150 
92 
- 
- 
- 
357 
- 
599 
- 
149 
91 
- 
- 
- 
356 
- 
596 
150 
150 
150 
450 
146 
142 
148 
436 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
3 
- 
0 
0 
- 
- 
- 
0 
- 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
- 
- 
0 
- 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The overall withdrawal rate observed in Synflorix vaccine recipients was very low (1.2%). The 
majority of the subjects withdrew from the trials for reasons other than AEs or SAEs.  
•  Post marketing experience 
Not applicable 
•  Supportive studies and data (booster, catch-up) submitted during the procedure 
Study  10PN-PD-DIT-012  assessed  safety  of  Synflorix  when  co-administered  with  DTPw-HBV/Hib 
vaccine for 3-dose primary vaccination in two schedules (EPI [6-10-14 weeks] and 2-4-6 months) in 
approximately 600 subjects. The primary objective of the study was reached as Synflorix, when co-
administered  with  DTPw-HBV/Hib  and  OPV  or  IPV  vaccines  did  not  induce  more  fever  than 
Prevenar.  
In all groups high overall/dose incidences of adverse events (solicited or unsolicited, general or local) 
were reported with high incidences of  grade 3 local adverse events. This reactogenicity profile is in 
line with previous experience with DTPw vaccines. Although the incidence of fever was high in both 
schedules,  only  one  case  of  grade  3  fever  was  reported  in  the  2-4-6  months  of  age  schedule.  Low 
incidences of unsolicited adverse events were observed in both schedules (reporting following 21% to 
28%  of  the  vaccine  doses).  Fifty  subjects  reported  at  least  one  SAE.  No  fatal  SAEs  were  reported. 
Two of the reported SAEs were assessed to be causally related to vaccination and led to withdrawal. 
All SAEs except for one case resolved without sequels. 
Synflorix 
Page 52 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-013 assessed safety data of a booster dose of Synflorix after a 2-dose catch-up 
immunisation in 7-11 months and after a 3-dose primary course (3-4-5 months). It has been submitted 
during  the  procedure.  High  incidences  of  any  adverse  event  (solicited  and  unsolicited,  general  and 
local) after each dose were reported in all study groups including the <6Mo control group i.e. ~ 86%-
95 %. The most frequently recorded adverse reaction reported was pain although predominantly in 12-
23-Mo and ≥24-Mo groups.  This is in line with previous reports with Prevenar. In general, there was 
no increase in the overall incidence of adverse events with successive doses for the groups receiving 
more than one dose. None of the reported SAEs were assessed to be causally related to vaccination. 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-017 (=booster of study 10PN-PD-DIT-011) assessed safety of a booster dose of 
Synflorix when co-administered with DTPa-HBV-IPV or DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib, Hib-MenC or MenC 
vaccines.  A  booster  dose  of  Synflorix,  when  co-administered  with  a  DTPa-combined  and  MenC  or 
Hib-MenC  vaccines  at  11  to  18  months  of  age  did  not  give  raise  to  any  new  or  significant  safety 
signals. 
Data  from  28929  doses  of  11-valent  formulations  in  27  clinical  studies  were  also  assessed.  The 
observed percentage of subjects that reported unsolicited adverse events (any, grade 3 and with causal 
relationship  to  vaccination)  following  vaccination  with  an  11-valent  vaccine  formulation  was  within 
the same range as following vaccination with Prevenar or a non-pneumococcal control vaccine. The 
results  from  these  studies  do  not  include  any  specific  issues  indicating  safety  signals.  The  safety 
profile is similar to that of both Prevenar and Synflorix and thus provides additional reassurance of the 
safety of Synflorix. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, more than 4000 subjects received a primary course of Synflorix and more than 3500 subjects 
received  it  as  a  booster  dose.  Additionally  a  large  clinical  study  is  ongoing  (COMPAS)  with  target 
enrolment  of  24,000  healthy  male  and  female  infants  and  another  large  phase  III/IV  study enrolling  
approximately 100,000 subjects is planned. 
Comparison  of  the  safety  of  Synflorix  and  the  licensed  7-valent  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine 
(Prevenar)  indicates  that  the  reactogenicity  profiles  of  the  two  vaccines  are  very  similar.  No 
statistically significant differences were observed in terms of the percentage of subjects reporting any 
solicited local or general symptom (any or grade 3) with the exception of pain and swelling > 20 mm 
following primary vaccination which was of borderline significance (lower limit of the 95% CI on the 
RR = 1.00). Importantly there was no difference between groups in terms of pain of grade 3 intensity, 
nor in terms of fever ≥ 38.0°C, >39.0°C or >40.0°C. The general experience of pain increased by age. 
There was no evidence for any increased risk for the occurrence of specific unsolicited adverse events 
following primary, booster or catch-up vaccination with Synflorix compared to Prevenar.  
The  overall  incidence  of  solicited  AEs  was  lower  in  the  groups  receiving  paracetamol,  principally 
regarding pain but also irritability.  No prospective controlled studies have investigated the impact of 
prophylactic  administration  of  paracetamol  on  the  immune  responses  of  DTPa-based  and  conjugate 
vaccines. It is speculated that ibuprofen, which also exerts peripheral effects, might potentially impact 
immune responses in a greater magnitude than paracetamol. This potential negative effect of ibuprofen 
requires  to  be  investigated  in  controlled  randomised  studies.  The  applicant  has  committed  to 
investigate the issue with a study plan regarding the effect of the vaccine- induced immune response of 
ibuprofen.   
An increased risk of febrile convulsions has been observed when Prevenar was co-administered with 
DTPw  compared  to  the  control  receiving  MenC  conjugate  vaccine  co-administered  with  DTPw.  No 
increased risk was identified in subjects who had received DTPa concomitantly with Synflorix. One 
case of febrile convulsion was reported within the 31 day follow-up period after primary vaccination. 
None  of  the  subjects  in  booster  vaccination  groups  reported  non-febrile  convulsions.  Febrile 
convulsions  occur  mainly  beyond  3  months  of  age,  with  peak  incidence  around  18  months  of  age. 
Therefore  a  warning  statement  recommending  prophylactic  antipyretics  for  children  with  seizure 
Synflorix 
Page 53 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disorders  or  with  a  prior  history  of  febrile  seizure  disorders  and  in  particular,  for  those  receiving 
DTPw based vaccines concomitant with Synflorix was included in the SPC section 4.4. The applicant 
committed 
routine  post-marketing 
pharmacovigilance and cumulatively report all.  
to  continuously  monitor  such  adverse  events  within 
No specific unsolicited adverse reactions deserving close monitoring were defined except for febrile 
and  non-febrile  convulsions.  Individuals  in  risk  groups  for  pneumococcal  infection  e.g.  with 
neurological  disease, 
related 
immunosuppression, HIV infection or after recent use of immunoglobulin have so far not been studied 
in the present development program. 
iatrogenic  or  disease 
chronic  disease, 
asplenia, 
severe 
A reported fatal case of sepsis and meningitis was diagnosed to be caused by pneumococci, although 
no  bacteriological  confirmation  was  performed.  The  investigator  considered  that  there  was  no 
reasonable possibility that the pneumococcal meningitis and septic shock could have been caused by 
the vaccine. The study is still blinded i.e. the exact vaccine received by the subject remains unknown. 
The possibility of a break-through infection could not be excluded.  
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The Rapporteur considers that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements and provides adequate evidence that the applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Synflorix 
Page 54 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17: Summary of the risk management plan for Synflorix  
 Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
Potential risk  
Febrile convulsions. 
Results of additional pooling of clinical 
data are presented in RMP version 
3 (Data lock point 15 June 2008) 
Soliciting convulsions (both febrile and 
non-febrile) during booster phase 
of COMPAS clinical trial 
Febrile convulsions are part of section 4.8 of 
the proposed EU SPC. The healthcare 
professional is informed of the possibility of 
febrile convulsions after the administration of 
Synflorix. This is a rare adverse event where 
sub-population has been identified that has a 
higher risk. 
Monitoring of reporting incidence of 
cases of febrile convulsions 
through PSURs 
Section 4.4. of the proposed EU SPC states:  
“Prophylactic antipyretic medication is 
recommended:  
for all children receiving Synflorix 
simultaneously with vaccines containing 
whole cell pertussis because of higher 
rate of febrile reactions (see section 4.8). 
for children with seizure disorders or with a 
prior history of febrile seizures.” 
 Antipyretic treatment should be initiated 
according to local treatment guidelines. 
Possible serotype 
•  GSK is exploring the feasibility to 
NA 
replacement of 
disease isolates 
conduct a post-marketing 
surveillance study which will 
monitor IPD/breakthrough 
infection/vaccine failure/possible 
serotype replacement/herd 
immunity/antibiotic resistant 
strains. The duration of the study 
would be 5 years, with the duration 
dependent on continued use by the 
study region of Synflorix. The 
Company will support the 
enhancement of epidemiological 
surveillance for the identification 
and monitoring of Invasive 
Pneumococcal Disease in a country 
that would routinely use Synflorix, 
when the following conditions will 
be met: 
-  the  vaccination  coverage  in  this 
country  is  sufficient  to  meet  the 
the  post-
main  objectives  of 
licensure 
timely 
manner. 
in  a 
study 
-  this  country  has  a  nationwide 
disease 
pneumococcal 
surveillance system 
of 
-this  country  has  a  minimum 
incidence 
pneumococcal 
disease  to  allow  surveillance  of 
infection/vaccine 
breakthrough 
failure/possible 
serotype 
replacement in a timely manner. 
Page 55 of 61 
Synflorix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apnoea in full term and 
premature infants 
Final results of study 10PN-PD-DIT-
015 are presented in the RMP 
version 3 section 1.2.2.2.1. and 
Annex 7 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-016 BST: 015 
Post-marketing cases in preterm/low 
birth weight infants and full term 
babies will be discussed in PSURs
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SPC states : 
“The potential risk of apnoea and the need for 
respiratory monitoring for 48-72h should be 
considered when administering the primary 
immunization series to very premature infants 
(born ≤ 28 weeks of gestation) and particularly 
for those with a previous history of respiratory 
immaturity. As the benefit of vaccination is 
high in this group of infants, vaccination 
should not be withheld or delayed.” 
This adequately informs treating physicians 
and, at this stage, allows to manage the risk for 
apnoea in this sub-set of vulnerable children. 
Possible breakthrough 
infections/ 
Vaccine failure 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SPC states:  
in 
the  serotypes 
“As  with  any  vaccine,  Synflorix  may  not 
protect  all  vaccinated 
individuals  against 
invasive pneumococcal disease or otitis media 
the  vaccine. 
caused  by 
Protection  against  otitis  media  caused  by 
pneumococcal  serotypes  in  the  vaccine  is 
expected 
than 
protection against invasive disease. In addition, 
as  otitis  media  is  caused  by  many  micro-
the  Streptococcus 
organisms  other 
than 
pneumoniae  serotypes 
the 
vaccine,  the  overall  protection  against  otitis 
media  is  expected  to  be  limited  (see  section 
5.1)” 
to  be  substantially 
represented 
lower 
in 
This adequately informs treating physicians 
and, at this stage, allows to manage the risk in 
this patient population. 
Cases suggestive of lack of efficacy 
will be discussed in a separate 
PSUR section 
Planned study 10PN-PD-DIT-043 
•  GSK is exploring the feasibility to 
conduct a post-marketing 
surveillance study which will 
monitor IPD/breakthrough 
infection/vaccine failure/possible 
serotype replacement/herd 
immunity/antiobiotic resistant 
strains. The duration of the study 
would be 5 years, with the duration 
dependent on continued use by the 
study region of Synflorix. The 
Company will support the 
enhancement of epidemiological 
surveillance for the identification 
and monitoring of Invasive 
Pneumococcal Disease in a country 
that would routinely use Synflorix, 
when the following conditions will 
be met: 
the vaccination coverage in this 
country is sufficient to meet the 
main objectives of the post-
licensure study in a timely manner. 
this country has a nationwide 
pneumococcal disease surveillance 
systems 
-this country has a minimum 
incidence of pneumococcal disease 
to allow surveillance of 
breakthrough infection/vaccine 
failure/possible serotype 
replacement in a timely manner. 
• 
• 
• 
Synflorix 
Page 56 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unforeseen safety 
signals arising in 
the post-
authorisation 
period 
Identified interaction 
Paracetamol 
(prophylactic 
setting) 
NA 
•  Routine signal evaluation practices 
(see  section 2.1.1 of RMP version 
3) 
•  Within the framework of study 
10PN-PD-DIT-043, Finnish 
hospitalization database registry 
data from subjects enrolled in the 
study (approximately 100,000 
subjects vaccinated with Synflorix) 
will be available to further evaluate 
unforeseen safety signals arising 
during the post-authorisation 
period. 
•  Results of study 10PN-PD-DIT-014 
BST:010 are provided in the RMP 
version 3 section 1.2.5.2. and 
Annex 11b 
•  The Company would in principle be 
willing to look further into the 
feasibility to conduct additional 
studies. However, the Company 
also is of the opinion that this is an 
overarching issue which should be 
discussed in the context of other 
pneumococcal vaccines (class 
effect).  
•  Study 10PN-PD-DIT-050 
(prophylactic and delayed 
ibuprofen) 
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SPC states 
“Prophylactic administration of antipyretics 
before or immediately after vaccine 
administration can reduce the incidence and 
intensity of post-vaccination febrile reactions. 
However, data suggest that the prophylactic 
use of paracetamol might reduce the immune 
response to Synflorix.  The clinical relevance 
of this observation, as well as the impact of 
antipyretics other than paracetamol on the 
immune response to Synflorix remains 
unknown.”  
This adequately informs prescribers and 
patients of an issue for which, at this stage, no 
further preventive measures can be taken. 
Synflorix 
Page 57 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Potential 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-061 (ext 10PN-
PD-DIT-008) 
hyporesponsivenes
s following a dose 
of 23-valent 
pneumococcal 
polysaccharide 
vaccine (23PPV) 
Inactivated poliovirus 
type 2 interaction 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
or 
who 
illness 
As several countries recommend a dose of 23-
valent  plain  polysaccharide  vaccine  (PPV23) 
in high risk children above 2 years of life, the 
Company  proposes  to  align  the  statement  in 
section  4.4  (Special  warnings  and  precautions 
for use), with the statement present in Prevenar 
SPC, namely: 
“The immune response elicited after two doses 
of Synflorix in children 12-23 months of age is 
comparable to the response elicited after three 
doses in infants (see section 5.1). The immune 
response  to  a  booster  dose  after  two  doses  in 
children  aged  12-23  months  has  not  been 
evaluated, but a booster dose may be needed to 
ensure optimal individual protection.   
However,  a  2-dose  schedule  in  children  aged 
12-23  month  children  with  high  risk  of 
pneumococcal  disease  (such  as  children  with 
sickle-cell  disease,  asplenia,  HIV  infection, 
are 
chronic 
immunocompromised) may not be sufficient to 
provide  optimal  protection.    In  these  children, 
a  23-valent  pneumococcal  polysaccharide 
vaccine  should  be  given  ≥  2  years  of  age, 
whenever 
interval 
between  the  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine 
(Synflorix)  and  the  23-valent  pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine should not be less than 
8  weeks.    There  are  no  data  available  to 
administration  of 
indicate  whether 
the 
to 
pneumococcal  polysaccharide  vaccine 
Synflorix  primed  children  may  result 
in 
further  doses  of 
hyporesponsiveness 
pneumococcal 
to 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.”  
Section  4.5  of  the  proposed  EU  SPC  states: 
the 
studies  demonstrated 
“Clinical 
immune  responses  and  the  safety  profiles  of 
the  co-administered  vaccines  were  unaffected, 
with the exception of the inactivated poliovirus 
type 2 response, for which inconsistent results 
were  observed  across  studies  (seroprotection 
ranging  from  78%  to  100%).  The  clinical 
relevance of this observation is not known.” 
polysaccharide 
recommended. 
  The 
that 
or 
to 
informs  prescribers  and 
This  adequately 
patients of an issue for which, at this stage, no 
further preventive measures can be taken. 
Missing information 
Clinical data on 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-015. 
NA 
preterm/low birth 
weight infants. 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-016 BST: 015 
Post-marketing cases in preterm/low 
birth infants will be discussed in 
PSURs 
Synflorix 
Page 58 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical data on 
Study 10PN-PD-DIT-034. 
PSUR monitoring. 
immunocompromise
d/ immunodeficient 
subjects including 
HIV-positive 
subjects. 
Data in children with 
Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
sickle cell disease, 
asplenia and 
nephrotic 
syndrome. 
Special patient groups (i.e. at-risk sub-
populations to be discussed in 
separate PSUR section 
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SPC states: 
“Children with impaired immune 
responsiveness, whether due to the use of 
immunosuppressive therapy, a genetic defect, 
HIV infection, or other causes, may have 
reduced antibody response to vaccination.” 
Section 4.5 of the proposed EU SPC states: 
“As with other vaccines it may be expected 
that in patients receiving immunosuppressive 
treatment an adequate response may not be 
elicited.” 
This adequately informs treating physicians 
and, at this stage, allows to manage the risk in 
this patient population. 
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SPC states: 
“Safety and immunogenicity data in children 
with increased risk for pneumococcal 
infections (sickle cell disease, congenital and 
acquired splenic dysfunction, HIV-infected, 
malignancy, nephrotic syndrome) are not 
available.” 
This adequately informs treating physicians 
and, at this stage, allows to manage the risk in 
this patient population. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
During  the  evaluation  of  Synflorix  four  quality  major  objections  were  identified.  Satisfactory 
responses have been provided to resolve them. Other minor concerns have been adequately addressed, 
and  some  commitments  are  made  by  the  applicant  and  follow-up  measures  are  defined  to  provide 
further information post-approval. In conclusion, all quality issues are resolved. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  non-clinical  program  was  in  accordance  with  CHMP  guidelines.  The  immunogenicity  of  the 
vaccine was demonstrated in animal models. No important safety concerns were identified. 
Efficacy 
Synflorix was demonstrated to induce an immune response to all ten serotypes and protein D in all 3-
dose primary vaccination schedules (2-3-4, 2-3-5 and 2-4-6 months) as well as in EPI schedule. The 
vaccine induced a functional immune response as measured by opsonophagocytic (OPA) assay. The 
majority of subjects who received a 3-dose primary series reached the ELISA threshold >0.20 µg/ml 
(at least 93%) and the seroprotective OPA titre >1:8 (at least 76%), except for certain serotypes. The 
immunogenicity  data  indicate  a  good  priming  effect  of  the  3-dose  schedule  and  an  anamnestic 
response  following  a  booster  dose.  The  presence  of  an  immune  memory  was  demonstrated  by  a 
challenge dose with 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine. Co-administration with different 
paediatric vaccines was assessed and did not result in negative interference on the immune response 
with the exception of poliovirus type 2, for which, inconsistent results were observed across studies.  
Synflorix 
Page 59 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparative  clinical  studies  in  the  10PN-PD-DIT  program  reveal  that  the  immunogenicity  profiles 
differ somewhat between Synflorix and Prevenar.  Overall, data on the 7 common serotypes indicate 
that  Synflorix  is  less  immunogenic,  with  the  exception  of  serotypes  19F  and  18C.  The  low 
immunogenic  serotypes  with  the  10-valent  vaccine  are  serotypes  6B  and  23F,  as  measured  by  the 
ELISA,  and  serotypes  1  and  5,  as  measured  by  OPA.  The  clinical  consequences  of  the  reduced 
immunogenicity are not known, but may result in breakthrough infections and shorter term persistence 
of  vaccine  efficacy.  Post-licensure  surveillance  will  be  undertaken  to  further  clarify  the  clinical 
consequences of the reduced immunogenicity. 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
A user consultation has been performed and was considered to be satisfactory. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
•  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use  of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
•  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information.  
Benefits 
The  introduction  of  Prevenar  (7-valent  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine)  in  the  childhood 
immunisation program in the US in the year 2000 have resulted in a dramatic decline in rates of IPD in 
the target group, as well as in unvaccinated older subjects (herd protection). Significant reductions of 
pneumococcal AOM and pneumonia in children have also been demonstrated. Prevenar has 80 to 90% 
serotype  coverage  in  the  US  but  somewhat  lower  in  Europe  (70-75%)  and  in  other  continents  (50-
65%).  Synflorix  (with  the  additional  serotypes  1,  5  and  7F)  is  expected  to  provide  an  increased 
coverage of at least two-thirds serotypes responsible for IPD in children aged <5 years in virtually all 
countries  studied,  and  more  than  80%  of  isolates  in  Western  Europe.  Synflorix  includes  serotype  1 
which has been associated with complicated pneumonia and pleural empyemas. 
The  impact  of  Synflorix  on  overall  IPD  was  estimated  by  the  applicant  taking  into  account  the 
serotype-specific  effectiveness  values  for  Prevenar,  the  distribution  of  serotypes  causing  IPD  in 
individual countries, and serotype-specific immunological differences between Synflorix and Prevenar 
observed  in  direct  comparative  studies.  With  a  vaccine  efficacy  estimate  using  the  percentage 
responders with ELISA antibody concentrations ≥0.20µg/ml, Prevenar would be estimated to prevent 
a  mean  of  66%  (range  42-79%)  of  IPD  in  young  children  across  the  different  European  countries 
included in the calculations, and Synflorix would prevent a mean of 74% (range 60-83%) of IPD. 
The overall impact of Prevenar on AOM remains  limited (6-7% against overall AOM). AOM is the 
most frequent bacterial infection infancy and a more efficacious vaccine would result in a substantial 
public health benefit. Synflorix has the potential to provide protection against AOM caused by NTHi 
due to the use of protein D. A protection against AOM due to both pneumococcal and NTHi would 
have a significant impact on the burden of middle ear disease 
Synflorix 
Page 60 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncertain benefits include the efficacy of Synflorix against serotype 1 in IPD and against serotype 1 
and 5 in AOM. The post-primary and post-booster functional immune responses to vaccine serotypes 
1  and  5  were  low.  Based  on  the  OPA  response  it  could  be  expected  that  the  level  of  protection 
conferred  by  Synflorix  against  type  1  and  type  5  IPD  will  be  in  the  range  of  the  one  observed  for 
Prevenar  against  serotypes  6A  (VE:76%)  and  19F  (VE:  89%),  respectively.  After  the  booster  dose 
strong anamnestic responses were induced against serotypes 1 and 5, which may enhance protection in 
older children.  Even with an efficacy against these serotypes that is somewhat lower than for other 
serotypes,  the  vaccine  would  still  represent  a  substantial  benefit,  in  particular  in  countries  in  which 
these serotypes represent a large proportion of disease. Post-licensure surveillance will be undertaken 
to further clarify effectiveness of Synflorix against pneumococcal disease due to serotypes 1 and 5..  
Further uncertain benefits include the partial cross-protection against serotypes 6A and 19A which is 
not convincingly supported by the data provided so far. 
Risks  
The safety profile of Synflorix is comparable to the licensed pneumococcal vaccine Prevenar and no 
new significant risks could be identified. Synflorix is commonly associated with a range of local and 
systemic  adverse  reactions.  These  adverse  events  are  not  often  of  severe  intensity  and  the  safety 
profile would not preclude the use of Synflorix for primary vaccination, booster vaccination or catch-
up vaccination. 
Serotype  replacement  is  considered  as  an  important  potential  risk  that  has  been  included  in  the  risk 
management plan. Risk minimization measures are in place. 
Synflorix  may  induce  suboptimal  vaccine  efficacy  to  certain  vaccine  serotypes  with  a  risk  of 
breakthrough infections and only short term persistence of efficacy. FUM are in place to investigate 
this further. 
No  data  has  been  presented  for  the  use  of  Synflorix  in  populations  at  high  risk  for  pneumococcal 
infection  Any  use  in  these  populations  may  not  provide  satisfactory  protection  with  a  risk  of  break-
through infections. The applicant committed to perform studies in high risk populations. 
Balance  
The overall B/R of Synflorix is considered favourable.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Synflorix for the  
“active  immunisation  against  invasive  disease  and  acute  otitis  media  caused  by  Streptococcus 
pneumoniae in infants and children from 6 weeks up to 2 years of age. See sections 4.4 and 5.1 for 
information  on  protection  against  specific  pneumococcal  serotypes.  The  use  of  Synflorix  should  be 
determined on the basis of official recommendations taking into consideration the impact of invasive 
disease  in  different  age  groups  as  well  as  the  variability  of  serotype  epidemiology  in  different 
geographical areas“  
was favourable and therefore recommended  the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Synflorix 
Page 61 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
