20 February 2015 
EMA/97288/2015 rev. 1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Synflorix 
(Pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine, adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000973 
P46 048 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
On August 3, 2012 the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Synflorix, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended, on medicinal products for paediatric use. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The  MAH  stated  that  the  submitted  paediatric  study  does  not  influence  the  benefit  risk  for  Synflorix 
and that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
II. 
II.1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The pharmaceutical formulation used in the study is the same as the commercially available.  
II.2 
Clinical aspects 
1. Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
- 
10PN-PD-DIT-58:  Immunogenicity,  safety  and  reactogenicity  of  GlaxoSmithKline  Biologicals’ 
pneumococcal  vaccine  1024850A  following  primary  and  booster  vaccination  of  healthy 
Japanese children. 
Only the result for the booster vaccination were submitted in this procedure. The results of the primary 
vaccination were reported and assessed in procedure EMEA/H/C/973 P 46 012, which  was finalised in 
January 2012. 
2. Clinical study 
10PN-PD-DIT-58:  Immunogenicity,  safety  and  reactogenicity  of  GlaxoSmithKline  Biologicals’ 
pneumococcal  vaccine  1024850A  following  primary  and  booster  vaccination  of  healthy  Japanese 
children 
  Description 
A  phase  III,  randomized,  open,  controlled  study  in  healthy  Japanese  children  to  assess  the 
immunogenicity,  safety  and  reactogenicity  of  GlaxoSmithKline  Biologicals’  10-valent  pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine when co-administered with DTPa vaccine as a 3-dose primary immunization course 
at 3, 4 and 5 months of age and followed by a booster vaccination at 17-19 months of age 
  Methods 
•  Objective(s) 
The objectives relevant to this report are highlighted in bold font below. 
Primary: 
• 
To compare the immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine  in  healthy  Japanese  children,  one  month  post-dose  III,  to  the  immune 
responses of the 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine as observed in the pivotal 
non-inferiority study 10PN-PD-DIT-001 in Europe*. 
Secondary: 
• 
To compare the immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine  in  healthy  Japanese  children,  one  month  post-dose  III,  to  the  historical 
immunogenicity data *. 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 2/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To compare the immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine  in  healthy  Japanese  children,  one  month  post-dose  III,  to  the  immune 
responses of the 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate. 
To  evaluate,  one  month  post-primary*  and  post-booster  vaccination  course,  the 
immunogenicity  of  GSK  Biologicals’  10-valent  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine  when 
co-administered with DTPa vaccine. 
To  evaluate,  one  month  post-primary*  and  post-booster  vaccination  course,  the 
immunogenicity of DTPa vaccine when co-administered with GSK Biologicals’ 10-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine. 
To  assess  the  antibody  persistence  12-14  months  following  the  completion  of  the 
three-dose  primary  vaccination  course  with  GSK  Biologicals’  10-valent  pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine when co-administered with DTPa vaccine. 
To  assess  the  antibody  persistence  12-14  months  following  the  completion  of  the 
three-dose  primary  vaccination  course  with  DTPa  vaccine  when  co-administered  with 
GSK Biologicals’ 10- valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine. 
To  assess  the  safety  and  reactogenicity  of  GSK  Biologicals’  10-valent  pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine when co-administered with DTPa vaccine. 
*The objectives related to the primary epoch were presented in the final clinical study report of 
the primary epoch. 
•  Study design 
  A multicentre, randomized, open-label, controlled study with two parallel groups. 
  Control:  the  control  group  (active  comparator)  was  the  group  who  received  only  the 
DTPa vaccine (commercially available in Japan as DPT “KAKETSUKEN” Syringe). 
  Vaccination  schedule:  3-dose  primary  vaccination  at  3,  4  and  5  months  of  age  and 
booster vaccination at 17-19 months of age 
  Blood  samples:  One  blood  sample  was  collected  from  each  subject  at  four  different 
time points: prior to the first vaccine dose (Pre-Vacc), one month post-dose III (Post-
Vacc  3),  prior  to  booster  vaccination  (Pre-Booster)  and  one  month  post-booster  dose 
(Post-Booster). 
  Type of study: Self-contained, except for the immunogenicity objectives for which the 
studies  10PN-PD-DIT-001,  Undeca-Pn-010  (POET),  and  10PN-PD-DIT-028  (COMPAS) 
were used as a reference. 
•  Study population /Sample size 
  Healthy  subjects  as  established  by  medical  history  and  clinical  examination  before 
entering into the study. 
  Born after a gestation period of 36 to 42 weeks inclusive. 
  Male  or  female  subjects  aged  between  and  including  90  and  118  days  at  the  time  of 
the first vaccination. 
  Subjects for whom the investigator/co-investigator believed that their parent(s)/Legally 
Acceptable  Representative(s)  (LAR(s))  could  and  would  comply  with  the  requirements 
of the protocol. 
  Written informed consent was obtained from the parent(s)/LAR(s) of the subject. 
When  comparing  the  local  immunogenicity  data  with  the  immunogenicity  data  obtained  from 
the 10PN-PD-DIT-001 study, 200 evaluable subjects would provide at least 98% or 85% power 
(under equal mean or in case of 1.2-fold decrease in GMC, respectively) to show non-inferiority 
(limit of 2-fold) of the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine in the current study compared to the 10Pn-PD-DiT 
vaccine  in  the  10PN-PD-DIT-001  study  with  respect  to  ELISA  GMC  ratios  for  the  10  vaccine 
pneumococcal serotypes. 
Considering that up to 17% of the subjects enrolled could be excluded from the ATP cohort for 
analysis of immunogenicity, 240 subjects were planned to be enrolled. 
• 
Treatments 
The study groups received: 
  10Pn  group:  3  primary  doses  and  one  booster  dose  of  10Pn-PD-DiT  co-administered 
with DTPa vaccine 
  DTPa group: 3 primary doses and one booster dose of DTPa vaccine  
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 3/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccine administration 
1 Applicable for 10Pn group 
2 Applicable for DTPa group 
3  Side  (left/right)  of  vaccination  could  be  changed  by  the  Investigator/co-investigator  upon 
best medical judgement. 
*  Thigh  was  defined  as  the  anterolateral  region  of  the  thigh  around  the  midpoint  of  the  line 
connecting the anterior superior iliac spine with the patella, and slightly lateral to the line. 
**  Upper  arm  was  defined  as  the  distal  one  third  of  the  extensor  surface  of  the  upper  arm 
(between the acromial process and the olecranon). 
Other vaccinations 
Administration of a vaccine not foreseen by the study protocol during the period starting from 
30  days  before  the  first  dose  of  study  vaccine  and  ending  on  the  last  study  visit,  with  the 
exception  of  Hib,  HBV,  BCG,  OPV,  Japanese  encephalitis,  MR,  varicella,  mumps  and  flu 
vaccines. The Hib, HBV, Japanese encephalitis and flu vaccines could be administered up to 7 
days before or at least 7 days after each dose of study vaccine. Administration of Hib and HBV 
vaccines concomitantly with the study vaccines at Visit 1 (Month 0), Visit 2 (Month 1), Visit 3 
(Month  2)  and  5  (Month  14-16)  was  allowed.  To  comply  with  the  Japanese  immunization 
schedule,  administration  of  BCG,  OPV,  MR,  varicella  and  mumps  vaccines  was  allowed 
according  to  local  recommendations  (up  to  28  days  before  or  at  least  7  days  after  the 
administration of inactivated vaccines such as DTPa or 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccines). 
Administration  of  any  pneumococcal  vaccine  other  than  the  10Pn-PD-DiT  vaccine  during  the 
entire  study  period  except  for  the  DTPa  group  for  whom  vaccination  with  a  licensed 
pneumococcal  vaccine  by  catch-up  schedule  will  be  allowed  only  if  the  2  vaccine  doses  are 
administered between Visits 4 and 5, i.e. from the second blood sampling time point (Visit 4) 
onwards and up to 7 days before the booster dose of the DTPa vaccine. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary outcome 
Immunogenicity: 
  Evaluation  of  immune  responses  to  components  of  the  investigational  vaccine,  one 
month after primary immunization. 
  Concentrations of antibodies against vaccine pneumococcal serotypes. 
Secondary Outcome/Efficacy Variables: 
This  report  presents  data  related  to  the  booster  epoch.  Results  related  to  the  primary  epoch 
were presented in the final clinical study report of the primary epoch. 
• 
Immunogenicity: 
Evaluation  of  immune  responses  to  components  of  the  study  vaccines  for  additional 
parameters  one  month  after  primary  immunization  and  prior  to  and  one  month  after  booster 
immunization. 
  Concentrations of antibodies against vaccine pneumococcal serotypes. 
  Opsonophagocytic activity (OPA) against vaccine pneumococcal serotypes. 
  Concentrations  of  antibodies  against  cross-reactive  pneumococcal  serotypes  6A  and 
19A. 
  OPA against cross-reactive pneumococcal serotypes 6A and 19A. 
  Concentrations of antibodies against protein D (PD). 
  Antibody  concentrations  against  diphtheria  toxoid  (DT),  tetanus  toxoid  (TT),  pertussis 
toxoid (PT) and filamentous haemagglutinin (FHA). 
Safety /reactogenicity: 
•  Solicited local and general adverse events (AEs) 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 4/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Occurrence of each solicited local AE (any, grade 3) within 8 days (Day 0 - Day 7) after 
each vaccine dose. 
  Occurrence of each solicited general AE (any, grade 3, related to vaccination) within 8 
days (Day 0 - Day 7) after each vaccine dose. 
•  Unsolicited adverse events 
  Occurrence of unsolicited AE within 31 days (Day 0 - Day 30) after each vaccination. 
•  Serious adverse events (SAEs) 
  Occurrence of SAEs from dose 1 up to study end. 
•  Statistical Methods 
Demography: 
The analysis of demographics was performed for the booster epoch. 
•  Distribution  of  vaccinated  subjects  among  the  study  centres,  withdrawal  status  and 
deviations from protocol/adapted intervals were tabulated. 
•  Demographic  characteristics  (age,  gender,  geographic  ancestry)  of  each  study  cohort 
were tabulated. 
•  Summary of study continuation for subjects enrolled in the primary epoch of the study 
and those who participated in the present booster epoch of the study was tabulated. 
Immunogenicity (including post-primary persistence) 
Since  Haemophilus  influenzae  type  b  and  hepatitis  B  virus  vaccines  were  allowed  during  the 
study  under  specific  conditions,  analyses  of  anti-polyribosyl-ribitol  phosphate  (PRP)  and  anti-
hepatitis B surface antigen (HBs) immune responses were performed. 
Descriptive analysis: 
For each treatment group, at each time point that a blood sample result was available: 
•  Geometric  mean  concentrations  (GMCs)/Geometric  mean  titres  (GMTs)  with  95% 
confidence intervals (CIs) were tabulated for each serotype/antigen. 
•  Seropositivity/seroprotection  rates  with  exact  95%  CIs  were  calculated  for  each 
• 
• 
appropriate serotype/antigen. 
Percentage  of  subjects  with  antibody  concentrations  ≥  0.20  μg/mL  was  calculated  for 
pneumococcal serotypes (1, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F and 23F). 
The  distribution  of  antibody  concentrations/titres  for  each  serotype/antigen  was 
displayed using tables and/or reverse cumulative distribution curves. 
Safety 
Analysis  of  safety  relative  to  the  booster  epoch  covered  analysis  of  safety endpoints  collected 
following the booster dose and SAEs from dose 1 up to study end. 
Descriptive analysis: 
• 
• 
• 
The percentage of subjects with at least one local AE (solicited and unsolicited), with at 
least one general AE (solicited and unsolicited) and with any AE during the 31-day (Day 
0  –  Day  30)  postvaccination  follow-up  period  was  tabulated  with  exact  95%  CI.  The 
same calculations were performed for AEs rated as grade 3 and general AEs with causal 
relationship to vaccination. 
The  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  each  individual  solicited  local  and  general  AE 
during  the  8-  day  (Day  0  -  Day  7)  solicited  post-vaccination  follow-up  period  was 
tabulated with exact 95% CI. In addition, the same tabulations were performed during 
the 4-day (Day 0 - Day 3) solicited postvaccination follow-up period. 
The same tabulation was performed for grade 3 solicited AEs and for solicited AEs with 
causal relationship to vaccination. For redness and swelling, grade 2 or 3 AEs were also 
tabulated. 
• 
•  Occurrence  of  fever  was  reported  per  0.5°C  cumulative  increments  as  well  as  the 
occurrence of axillary temperature > 39.5°C and the occurrence of axillary temperature 
> 39.5°C with causal relationship to vaccination. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  with  at  least  one  report  of  unsolicited  AE  classified  by  the 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) and reported up to 30 days after 
booster  vaccination  was  tabulated  with  exact  95%  CI.  The  same  tabulation  was 
performed  for  grade  3  unsolicited  AEs  and  for  unsolicited  AEs  with  a  relationship  to 
vaccination. 
The proportion of AEs resulting in a medically attended visit was also tabulated. 
The  number  and  percentage  of  subjects  who  took  concomitant  antipyretic/medication 
at  least  once  during  the  8-day  (Day  0  -  Day  7)  solicited  post-vaccination  follow-up 
• 
• 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 5/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
period  was  tabulated  for  each  group  with  exact  95%  CI.  In  addition,  the  same 
tabulation  was  performed  during  the  4-day  (Day  0  -  Day  3)  solicited  post-vaccination 
follow-up period. 
•  Serious  adverse  events  (SAEs),  large  swelling  reactions  and  withdrawals  due  to 
  Results 
adverse event(s) were tabulated. 
•  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Out of the 360 subjects enrolled in the primary epoch of the study, a total of 349 participated in the 
booster epoch of the study (229 subjects in the 10Pn group and 120 subjects in the DTPa group). 
• 
Immunogenicity results 
Immune response to vaccine pneumococcal serotypes (ELISA) 
The  results  for  the  ELISA  immune  responses  to  vaccine  pneumococcal  serotypes,  one  month  after 
completion of a 3-dose primary vaccination course, prior to and one month after the booster dose are 
detailed in table 20.  
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  20  Seropositivity  rates  and  GMCs  for  ANTI-1,  ANTI-4,  ANTI-5,  ANTI-6B,  ANTI-7F, 
ANTI-9V,  ANTI-14,  ANTI-18C,  ANTI-19F  and  ANTI-23F  antibodies  (ATP  cohort  of 
immunogenicity for booster epoch) 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 7/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 8/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune response to vaccine pneumococcal serotypes (OPA) 
The  results  for  the  OPA  immune  responses  to  vaccine  pneumococcal  serotypes,  one  month  after 
completion of a 3-dose primary vaccination course, prior to and one month after the booster dose are 
detailed in table 24. 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 9/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 24 Seropositivity rates and GMTs for OPSONO-1, OPSONO-4, OPSONO-5, OPSONO-6B, 
OPSONO-7F,  OPSONO-9V,  OPSONO-14,  OPSONO-18C,  OPSONO-19F  and  OPSONO-23F  (ATP 
cohort of immunogenicity for booster epoch) 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 10/15 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 11/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s  comment:  The  ELISA  and  OPA  responses  to  the  booster  dose  were  generally  higher  (9 
serotypes) or very similar to the post-primary responses. This is in agreement with previously reported 
results.  
Immune response to cross-reactive serotypes 6A and 19A (ELISA and OPA) 
Twelve  to  fourteen  months  following  primary  vaccination  (prior  to  booster  vaccination  with  10Pn-PD-
DiT in the 10Pn group): 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  antibody  concentrations  ≥0.2  µg/mL  was  78.9%  for  cross-reactive 
serotype 6A and 74.3% for cross-reactive serotype 19A. 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  OPA  titres  ≥8  was  79.1%  for  cross-reactive  serotype  6A  and  33.8% 
for cross-reactive serotype 19A. 
One month following booster vaccination with 10Pn-PD-DiT in the 10Pn group: 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  antibody  concentrations  ≥0.2  µg/mL  was  95.3%  for  cross-reactive 
serotype 6A and 95.8% for cross-reactive serotype 19A. 
The  percentage  of  subjects  with  OPA  titres  ≥8  was  92.9%  for  cross-reactive  serotype  6A  and  89.6% 
for cross-reactive serotype 19A. 
Immune response to DTPa antigens 
The results for the DTPa antigens, one month after completion of a 3-dose primary vaccination course, 
prior to and one month after the booster dose are detailed in tables 33 and 34. 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 12/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety results 
The safety analysis was performed on the Total vaccinated cohort for booster epoch (primary analysis). 
Solicited local reactions are presented in Table 82 and solicited general reactions in Table 85. 
Table  82  Incidence  of  solicited  local  symptoms  reported  during  the  8-day  (Days  0-7)  post-
vaccination period (Total vaccinated cohort for booster epoch) 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 13/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  85  Incidence  of  solicited  general  symptoms  reported  during  the  8-day  (Days  0-7) 
post-vaccination period (Total vaccinated cohort for booster epoch) 
Unsolicited symptoms: During the 31-day post-booster vaccination period, at least one unsolicited AE 
was reported for 57.9% and 55.0% of subjects in the 10Pn and DTPa groups, respectively. Unsolicited 
AEs considered by the investigator to be causally related to vaccination were reported for 17.5% and 
7.5% of subjects in the 10Pn and DTPa groups, respectively, with injection site induration as the most 
frequently  reported  symptom  in  both  groups.  Grade  3  unsolicited  AEs  were  reported  for  2.2%  and 
1.7% of subjects in the 10Pn and DTPa groups, respectively. None of the grade 3 AEs was assessed by 
the investigator to be causally related to vaccination. 
Serious adverse events: 
During the booster vaccination phase of the study (from Visit 5 up to Visit 6, period of approximately 1 
month), at least one SAE was reported for 5 subjects (4 subjects in the 10Pn group and 1 subject in 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  DTPa  group).  None  of  them  were  fatal  or  assessed  by  the  investigator  to  be  causally  related  to 
vaccination. All SAEs were recovered/resolved without sequelae. 
During the entire study period (from study start up to Visit 6, period of approximately 15 months), 75 
SAEs were reported for 47 subjects (28 subjects in the 10Pn group and 19 subject in the DTPa group). 
One  fatal  SAE  (i.e.  sudden  infant  death  syndrome)  was  reported  for  a  subject  in  the  10Pn  group,  9 
days after dose 2 of primary vaccination. None of the SAEs were considered by the investigator to be 
causally related to vaccination. 
Assessor’s comment: As seen in previous studies the systemic reactions increased in frequency when 
Synflorix was given concomitantly with DTPa. No new safety signal was detected in this study. 
3. Discussion on clinical aspects 
The current submission contains the booster results of study 10PN-DIT-058. The results of the primary 
vaccination  were  assessed  previously  (EMEA/H/C/973  P  46 012).  The  presented  immunogenicity  data 
are generally in agreement with already presented data, and no additional concerns have been raised 
by  these  data.  Likewise,  the  safety  data  are  generally  in  line  with  previous  data  and  no  new  safety 
signals are raised by this study.  
III. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
The  submitted  study  is  not  considered to  change  the  overall  benefit  risk  balance  of  Synflorix,  and  no 
further regulatory action is required.  
  Recommendation  
  Fulfilled –  
No further action required 
  Not fulfilled: 
IV. 
ADDITIONAL CLARIFICATIONS REQUESTED 
 Not applicable 
Synflorix P46 048 
Page 15/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
