EMA/217413/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Synjardy (empagliflozin / metformin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Synjardy, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Synjardy is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Synjardy, which can be found on Synjardy’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Synjardy is a medicine used to treat adults with type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is a condition in 
which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of glucose (sugar) in the blood or 
when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. In 2010, about 1 out of every 15 adults in Europe 
had this condition. Type 2 diabetes is more likely to develop in people who have family members with 
the condition, people with an ethnic background known to be associated with a higher risk (for 
example Asian or African), people aged over 40 years old, or who are overweight or obese, do not 
exercise, have high blood pressure, or smoke. 
People with type 2 diabetes tend to have other diseases at the time of diagnosis and they are at 
greater risk of developing conditions such as cardiovascular disorders, diabetic eye disease, and kidney 
disease. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Synjardy contains the active substances empagliflozin and metformin. It is used as an addition to diet 
and exercise in adults with type 2 diabetes whose blood glucose levels are not satisfactorily controlled 
by adding metformin alone or with another diabetes medicine (including insulin). It can also be used to 
replace empagliflozin and metformin as separate tablets in patients who are already taking both. 
The benefits of empagliflozin in combination with metformin have been shown in 3 main studies 
involving 1,679 patients with type 2 diabetes whose blood sugar was not adequately controlled by 
metformin, alone or combined with other diabetes medicines (pioglitazone or a type of diabetes 
medicine called a sulphonylurea). The studies compared the effect of emplagliflozin plus metformin 
versus placebo (dummy treatment) with metformin. The main measure of effectiveness was the 
change in the level of a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives 
an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled, after 24 weeks of treatment.  
The studies showed a clinically relevant reduction in HbA1c when the Synjardy combination of 
empagliflozin plus metformin was given, compared with placebo plus metformin. Overall, the additional 
reduction was 0.58 percentage points with the combination providing 5 mg of empagliflozin twice daily 
and 0.62 percentage points with the 12.5 mg dose. Similar benefits were seen in the studies 
regardless of the other diabetes medicines being taken. In addition, the results indicated that Synjardy 
treatment was associated with a decrease in body weight and blood pressure. 
Page 1/6 
 
 
Supportive evidence was provided from several further studies. Some of these were continuations of 
the main studies that suggested the benefits of the medicine continued with longer therapy. Studies 
also indicated Synjardy was as effective as empagliflozin and metformin taken separately, and that the 
combination helped reduce HbA1c when added to treatment including insulin.  
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
It is not known if the effects of Synjardy on blood pressure and body weight reduction will, if 
sustained, provide a significant additional reduction in the risk of conditions such as heart attacks and 
strokes. It is not known if children (younger than 18 years) with type 2 diabetes would have a similar 
treatment benefit profile to adult patients. Synjardy has also not been studied in patients taking a class 
of injectable diabetes medicines called glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) analogues. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Urinary tract 
Because empagliflozin increases the 
Patients should drink plenty of water and 
infection 
amount of sugar in the urine, it may 
other liquids, urinate often, and wipe 
encourage the growth of bacteria. 
themselves carefully after a bowel 
In studies to license Synjardy, the 
percentage of patients who had urinary 
movement, particularly if they have 
previously had urinary tract infections.  
tract infection was comparable between 
Serious infections may be caused by 
those given Synjardy (11.9%) and those 
abnormalities in the urinary system, 
given placebo and metformin (12.3%). 
which could lead to permanent kidney 
damage. If patients have recurring 
infections, they should talk with their 
doctor who may consider additional 
tests.  
In addition, temporary interruption of 
Synjardy may be considered in patients 
with complicated urinary tract infections. 
Genital 
infection 
In studies to license Synjardy, the 
Preventive measures for genital infection 
percentage of patients who had genital 
are similar to those described above for 
infection was higher among those given 
urinary tract infections. 
Synjardy (6.7%) than those given 
placebo and metformin (1.5%). 
Genital infection may be more likely in 
women than in men. 
Fluid loss 
(volume 
depletion) 
Because of the way the empagliflozin 
Doctors should take extra care when 
component in Synjardy works, which 
prescribing Synjardy to patients in whom 
encourages urination, less than about 1 
a drop in blood pressure due to fluid loss 
patient in 100 may experience symptoms 
could pose a risk, such as patients with 
related to fluid loss or dehydration 
known cardiovascular disease, patients 
(including low blood pressure and 
who have had low blood pressure while 
dizziness). Symptoms may be more 
taking blood pressure medicines, or 
Page 2/6 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
common in patients aged 75 years and 
patients aged 75 years of age or older. 
older. 
Where patients have another condition 
that may cause fluid loss (e.g. 
gastrointestinal illness) careful 
monitoring of fluid status is needed. 
Temporarily stopping treatment with 
Synjardy should be considered until any 
fluid loss is corrected. 
Build-up of 
Lactic acidosis is a very rare but serious 
Synjardy should not be used by patients 
acids and 
condition due to a build-up of lactic acid 
at high risk of lactic acidosis.  
If lactic acidosis is suspected during 
treatment with Synjardy, treatment 
should be immediately discontinued and 
the patient should be admitted to the 
hospital. 
lactate in body 
in the blood that can occur in patients 
tissues and 
taking metformin-containing medicines. 
blood 
This occurs primarily in patients whose 
(lactic acidosis) 
kidneys are not working properly, who 
have a severe infection or are 
dehydrated, who have diabetic 
ketoacidosis (a complication of diabetes 
with high blood sugar, rapid weight loss, 
nausea or vomiting), who have severe 
circulatory problems such as ‘shock’, 
who have liver problems or who drink 
alcohol to excess. 
In studies to license Synjardy, 2 patients 
given the medicine experienced lactic 
acidosis. 
Low blood 
A few patients may experience low blood 
A lower dose of insulin or a 
sugar levels 
sugar levels due to treatment with 
sulphonylurea may be required to reduce 
(hypoglycaemia 
Synjardy. The risk of low blood sugar is 
the risk of low blood sugar when used in 
with insulin 
increased when a patient is also taking 
combination with Synjardy. 
and/or 
other medicines known to cause low 
sulphonylureas) 
blood sugar levels (insulin or 
sulphonylureas). 
In studies to license Synjardy, low blood 
sugar in patients also taking insulin 
and/or sulphonylureas occurred in 
30.6% of those given Synjardy and 
27.9% of those not given this medicine.  
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Cancer of the kidney 
An increased risk of kidney cancer with empagliflozin was seen in one study in 
and bladder (urinary 
male mice, though not in other animals. 
tract carcinogenicity) 
Page 3/6 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
In patients given Synjardy, the number of patients who developed cancer of 
the kidney (2 patients) or bladder (2 patients) was low and comparable to 
placebo. There is no obvious way that Synjardy could increase the risk of 
kidney tumours. 
Kidney injury 
Because of the way empagliflozin works there is a risk of effects on the 
(renal impairment) 
kidneys that could reduce their function (renal impairment). Decreased kidney 
function might be more common in elderly patients (75 years and older). 
In studies to license Synjardy, the percentage of patients with kidney 
impairment was low (0.7% of those given Synjardy and 0.3% of those given 
placebo and metformin). 
Liver injury 
Liver injury is considered an important potential risk of empagliflozin alone, 
due to small changes observed in laboratory tests looking at liver function. 
The percentage of Synjardy patients with liver injury has been low (1.6%) and 
any relationship to treatment with the medicine has not been established. 
Bone fracture 
Bone fracture is considered an important potential risk because it has been 
seen with other medicines of the same class as empagliflozin. The percentage 
of Synjardy patients with bone fractures was low (1.5%) and bone fracture 
was no more common with Synjardy than with placebo. No loss in bone 
mineral density (a measure of bone strength) was observed after 1 and 2 
years of treatment with empagliflozin alone. 
Missing information 
Risk 
Children 
What is known  
Synjardy has not been studied in patients younger than 18 years. Children 
(paediatric patients) 
should not take Synjardy. 
Elderly patients 
Since elderly patients are at increased risk of adverse events from medicines, 
post-marketing safety information will be collected regarding treatment of the 
elderly. 
Pregnancy/ 
breastfeeding 
Synjardy has not been investigated in pregnant and/or breastfeeding women. 
Empagliflozin and metformin have not been shown to produce abnormalities 
during development in the womb. Due to a lack of information regarding 
human use, women should not be treated with Synjardy during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding. 
Clinical impact of 
Small increases in laboratory values for blood fats (lipids) were seen in all 
altered blood fats 
treatment groups in the clinical studies with empagliflozin alone. No increased 
(dyslipidaemia) 
cardiovascular risk (risk of effects on the heart and circulation) is expected 
during Synjardy treatment. 
Long-term safety 
Experience with long-term safety is currently limited, the maximum exposure 
(particularly 
in completed studies being up to 2 years. Long-term studies are ongoing. 
cardiovascular) 
Clinical data did not reveal an increase in the risk of cardiovascular events 
following the use of Synjardy. 
Concomitant use with 
Synjardy has not been studied in combination with certain diabetes medicines 
GLP-1 analogues  
known as GLP-1 analogues. 
Long-term safety 
A small numerical difference in melanoma (a type of skin cancer) was 
Page 4/6 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
(melanoma) 
observed between Synjardy and placebo in clinical trials. The percentage of 
patients with malignancy was low (less than 0.11%). There is no obvious way 
that Synjardy could increase the risk of cancer, including melanoma. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Synjardy can be found on Synjardy’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
Status  
Planned date for 
(including study 
number)  
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Long-term CV 
To evaluate long-
Long-term safety 
Started 
safety study 
term 
(particularly 
1245.25 
cardiovascular 
cardiovascular), 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
Event driven, final 
results 4th quarter 
of 2015. 
safety of 
dyslipidaemia, 
empagliflozin in 
concomitant use 
patients with type 
of GLP-1 
2 diabetes and 
analogues, urinary 
increased 
tract cancer, bone 
cardiovascular 
fracture, missing 
risk; patients 
long-term safety 
treated with 
information on 
Synjardy will be 
melanoma. 
included. 
PASS (trial 
1245.96) to 
To evaluate the 
Urinary tract 
Planned 
risk of urinary 
infection, genital 
assess the risk of 
tract and genital 
infection, acute 
renal and liver 
infection, and 
kidney failure, 
injury, and urinary 
acute kidney and 
liver injury. 
tract and genital 
liver injury 
infection 
resulting in 
hospitalisations, in 
patients treated 
Will depend on 
patient uptake; 
submission date to 
be determined in 
the final trial 
protocol. 
Page 5/6 
 
 
Study/activity 
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
Status  
Planned date for 
(including study 
number)  
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
with empagliflozin 
compared with 
users of other 
antidiabetic 
treatment; 
patients treated 
with Synjardy will 
be included. 
To evaluate the 
Urinary tract 
Planned 
Will be determined 
PASS (trial 
1245.97) to 
risk of kidney and 
cancer. 
assess the risk of 
bladder cancer in 
urinary tract 
patients treated 
malignancies, 
with empagliflozin 
preceded by 
compared with 
feasibility 
assessment 
users of other 
antidiabetic 
treatment; 
patients treated 
with Synjardy will 
be included. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
None of the above studies are a condition of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2015. 
in the final trial 
protocol. 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
