EMA/80370/2017  
EMEA/H/C/003770 
EPAR summary for the public 
Synjardy 
empagliflozin / metformin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Synjardy. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Synjardy. 
For practical information about using Synjardy, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Synjardy and what is it used for? 
Synjardy is a diabetes medicine used with diet and exercise to treat adults with type 2 diabetes. It 
contains the active substances empagliflozin and metformin. Synjardy is used: 
• 
• 
• 
in patients whose diabetes is not sufficiently controlled by metformin alone; 
in combination with other diabetes medicines in patients whose diabetes is not sufficiently 
controlled on these medicines plus metformin; 
in patients who are already taking metformin and empagliflozin as separate tablets. 
How is Synjardy used? 
Synjardy is available as tablets containing 5 or 12.5 mg of empagliflozin with 850 or 1,000 mg of 
metformin, and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
The recommended dose of Synjardy is one tablet twice a day with meals, and treatment is normally 
started with a tablet that supplies the dose of metformin the patient is already taking, together with 
the lowest dose (5 mg) of empagliflozin. Doses are adjusted as necessary. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
If Synjardy is used in combination with insulin or a sulphonylurea (a medicine that increases the body’s 
production of insulin), the doses of these medicines may need to be lowered to avoid hypoglycaemia 
(low blood sugar levels). 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Synjardy work? 
In type 2 diabetes the body does not make enough insulin to control the level of glucose (sugar) in the 
blood or the body is unable to use insulin effectively. This leads to a high level of glucose in the blood. 
The two active substances in Synjardy, empagliflozin and metformin, work in different ways to lower 
blood glucose, and thus to control symptoms of the disease.  
Empagliflozin works by blocking a protein in the kidneys (called sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 or 
SGLT2). As blood is filtered by the kidneys, SGLT2 stops glucose in the bloodstream from being passed 
out into the urine. By blocking the action of SGLT2, empagliflozin causes more glucose to be removed 
in the urine, thereby reducing the levels of glucose in the blood. Empagliflozin has been authorised in 
the EU under the trade name Jardiance since 2014. 
Metformin works mainly by reducing the production of glucose in the body and reducing its absorption 
from the gut. Metformin has been available in the EU since the 1950s. 
What benefits of Synjardy have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of empagliflozin in combination with metformin have been shown in 3 main studies 
involving 1,679 patients with type 2 diabetes whose blood sugar was not adequately controlled by 
metformin, alone or combined with other diabetes medicines (such as pioglitazone or a type of 
diabetes medicine called a sulphonylurea). The studies compared the effect of empagliflozin plus 
metformin versus placebo (a dummy treatment) with metformin. The main measure of effectiveness 
was the reduction in the level of a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 
after 24 weeks of treatment. HbA1c gives an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. 
The studies showed a greater reduction in HbA1c when empagliflozin plus metformin was given, 
compared with placebo plus metformin. Overall, the additional reduction was 0.58 percentage points 
with a combination providing 5 mg of empagliflozin twice daily, and 0.62 percentage points with the 
12.5 mg dose, and these reductions were considered clinically relevant. Similar benefits were seen in 
the studies regardless of the other diabetes medicines being taken. In addition, the results indicated 
that the combination was associated with a beneficial decrease in body weight and blood pressure. 
Supportive evidence was provided from several further studies. Some of these were continuations of 
the main studies that suggested the benefits of the combination continued with longer therapy. Studies 
also indicated Synjardy was as effective as empagliflozin and metformin taken separately, and that the 
combination helped reduce HbA1c when added to treatment including insulin. 
Another main study showed that adding empagliflozin (one of the active substances of Synjardy) to 
usual treatment reduced adverse cardiovascular (heart and blood vessels) effects. The study involved 
patients with type 2 diabetes who already had cardiovascular disease (such as angina, heart attack 
and stroke). The main measure of effectiveness was the occurrence of one of three major 
cardiovascular events: stroke, heart attack or death caused by cardiovascular disease. On average, 
patients in the study were followed up for 3.1 years. In those receiving empagliflozin, cardiovascular 
events occurred in 10.5% (490 out of 4,687) of patients compared with 12.1% (282 out of 2,333) of 
patients receiving placebo. Among these, in patients who were also taking metformin (the other active 
Synjardy  
EMA/80370/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
substance in Synjardy), the three major cardiovascular events occurred in 9.9% (344 out of 3,459) of 
patients receiving empagliflozin and in 10.9% (189 out of 1,734) of patients receiving placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Synjardy? 
The most common side effects with Synjardy are hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar levels) when the 
medicine is taken with a sulphonylurea or insulin, infections of the urinary tract and genitals, and 
increased urination. For the full list of all side effects reported with Synjardy, see the package leaflet. 
Synjardy must not be used in patients with: 
•  metabolic acidosis (when the body produces more acid than it gets rid of) or diabetic pre-coma 
(dangerous complications of diabetes); 
• 
• 
• 
severely reduced kidney function or conditions that could affect the kidneys such as dehydration, 
severe infection or a steep fall in blood pressure; 
a condition that could reduce the supply of oxygen to body tissues (such as in patients with 
worsening heart failure, recent heart attack, breathing difficulty or a steep fall in blood pressure); 
liver impairment, or problems with alcoholism or alcohol intoxication. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Synjardy approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Synjardy’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP 
concluded that the medicine could help produce a clinically meaningful reduction in blood glucose in 
patients with type 2 diabetes, and the benefits and risks were in line with those of the individual active 
substances. Synjardy was also shown to reduce cardiovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes 
who already had cardiovascular disease. Because of concerns about the balance of benefit and risk in 
patients with reduced kidney function taking the fixed-dose combination, the CHMP recommended 
restricting its use in these patients. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Synjardy? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Synjardy have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Synjardy 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Synjardy on 27 May 2015.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Synjardy can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Synjardy, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2017. 
Synjardy  
EMA/80370/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
