12 October 2017 
EMA/829470/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Tacforius  
International non-proprietary name: tacrolimus 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004435/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 8 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 8 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 9 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 10 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 10 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 11 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 13 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 17 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 17 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 17 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 18 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 18 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 18 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 18 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 18 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 18 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 18 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 22 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 42 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 42 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 42 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 42 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 43 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 46 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 46 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 46 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 46 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 47 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 2/48 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
ACR  
AEs  
ALT  
acute cellular reaction 
adverse events 
alanine aminotransferase 
ANOVA   
analysis of variance 
AST  
AUC  
aspartate aminotransferase 
area under the curve 
AUC24   
24-hour area under the curve 
AUCinf   
area under the curve from time 0 to infinity 
AUC0-t   
area under the curve for a dosing interval 
AUC0-tau,ss 
area under the curve for a dosing interval at steady state 
AUClast  
area under the curve from time of dosing to time of last measurable concentration 
BC  
BE  
British Columbia 
Bioequivalence 
BE-GL   
Bioequivalence-Guideline 
BLQ:  
Below Limit of Quantitation 
bid  
BMI  
BP  
Bpm 
twice-daily 
body mass index 
blood pressure 
Beats per Minute 
Cavg:    
average concentration: AUCtau/tau  
CEP 
Certificate of Suitability of the Ph.Eur. 
Cmax    
maximum blood concentration 
Cmax,ss 
maximum blood concentration at steady state 
Cmin  
minimum blood concentration 
Ctau,ss  
measured concentration at the end of the dosing interval at steady state 
Ctrough 
measured concentration at the end of the dosing interval 
Cpd:  
C/D  
CI 
Pre-dose (morning) measured analyte concentrations on Days 8, 9, and 10. 
concentration/dose 
Confidence Interval 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 3/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CK 
Cl- 
CL/F  
CrCl  
CMV  
CNI  
CRF 
CS 
CsA  
CV 
Creatine Phosphokinase 
Chloride 
oral clearance 
creatinine clearance 
cytomegalovirus 
calcineurin inhibitor 
Case Report Form 
Clinically Significant 
cyclosporine 
Coefficient of Variation 
CYP3A   
cytochrome P450 3A 
DNA  
DSC 
desoxyribonucleic acid 
differential scanning calorimetry 
EASL  
European Association for the Study of the Liver 
EAU  
European Association of Urology 
EBV-PTLD  
epstein-barr virus-associated posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder 
EC-MPS  
enteric-coated mycophenolate sodium 
eCrCl    
estimated creatinine clearance 
EMA 
Fb  
FDA 
fP  
European Medicines Agency 
free fraction in blood 
Food and Drug Administration 
free fraction in plasma 
FKBPI2   
FK 506 binding protein-12 
G 
GC   
GFR  
Gram 
Gas Chromatography 
glomerular filtration rate 
GMD  
glucose metabolism disorder 
HbA1c   
haemoglobin A1c 
HBsAg   
Hepatitis B Surface Antigen 
HCG 
HIV  
Human Chorionic Gonadotropin 
human immunodeficiency virus 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 4/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HPLC 
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
ICF 
ICH 
IL-2  
IPCs  
IR 
IRB 
Inform Consent Form 
International Conference on Harmonisation  
interleukin 2 
in-process controls  
Infrared 
Institutional Review Board 
KDIGO   
Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes 
Max 
MCH 
Maximum 
Mean Corpuscular Haemoglobin 
MCHC   
Mean Corpuscular Haemoglobin Concentration 
MCV 
ME  
Mean Corpuscular Volume 
microemulsion 
Μg=µg   
Microgram 
Mg=mg  
Milligram 
Min 
MMF  
mL 
MPA  
MR 
MS 
MSE 
Minute/Minimum 
mycophenolate mofetil 
Milliliter 
mycophenolate acid 
modified-release 
Mass Spectrometry 
Mean Square Error 
ms or msec 
Millisecond 
n 
Number 
NADPH   
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate 
N/AP or NA 
Not Applicable 
N/AV 
Not Available 
NC 
NCS 
Ng 
NK 
Not Calculated 
Not Clinically Significant 
Nanogram 
Not known 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 5/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n.s.  
not significant 
NF-AT    
nuclear factor of activated T cells 
NMR 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
NNRTI   
nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
NRTI  
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
OOS 
OTC 
of out-of-specification 
over-the-counter 
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
PI  
PK  
p.o. 
PR 
protease inhibitor 
pharmacokinetic 
Per os 
Prolonged-Release 
PRCA    
pure red cell aplasia 
PRES    
posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome 
PT 
Preferred Term 
PTLD  
posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder 
PVC 
polyvinyl chloride 
PVDC 
polyvinylidene chloride 
QA 
QC 
QRS 
QT 
QTc 
RBC 
RDW 
RH 
SAE  
SD  
SLS 
Quality Assurance 
Quality Control 
Complex between Q and S Wave 
Time between Q and T Wave 
QT Interval Corrected for Heart Rate 
Red Blood Cell 
Red Cell Distribution Width 
relative humidity 
serious adverse events 
standard deviation 
Sodium Lauryl Sulfate 
SmPC  Summary of Product Characteristics 
SOC 
System Organ Class 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 6/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SOP 
SPK  
SS 
TLC 
Standard Operating Procedures 
simultaneous pancreas-kidney 
steady state 
Thin layer chromatography 
tmax  
time to maximum blood concentration 
t1/2  
TBC 
elimination half life 
To be controlled 
TEAEs    
treatment-emergent adverse events 
TGA 
TSE 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
UHPLC   
Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
ULN 
ULQ 
WBC 
Upper Limit of Normal 
Upper Limit of Quantitation 
White Blood Cell 
XR(P)D  
X-Ray (Powder) Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 7/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Teva B.V. submitted on 6 December 2016 an application for marketing authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Tacforius, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of 
Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 01 April 2016. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference medicinal product, as defined in Article 10(2)(a) of Directive 
2001/83/EC, for which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a 
complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult kidney or liver allograft recipients. 
Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal products in 
adult patients. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Advagraf instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for 
not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Prograf 0.5mg, 1mg, 3mg Capsule, hard 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 03-06-1998 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Member State (EEA) - Germany 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: 41954.00.00, 41954.01.00, 41954.02.00 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Advagraf, 0.5mg, 1 mg, 3 mg, 5 mg, Prolonged-release 
capsule, hard 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 25-04-2007 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 8/48 
 
  
  
 
 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/07/387/01-026 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Advagraf5 mg, Prolonged-release capsule, hard 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 25-04-2007 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/07/387/007, EU/1/07/387/008, EU/1/07/387/010, 
EU/1/07/387/24-026 
•  Bioavailability study number(s): TVY-P8-763, TVY-P7-885, 2016-4130 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related 
to the proposed indication. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was : 
Rapporteur:  Milena Stain 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 6 December 2016.  
The procedure started on 23 December 2016. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 March 2017. The 
PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 24 March 2017. 
•  During the meeting on 21 April 2017, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent 
to the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 19 May 2017. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions 
to all CHMP members on 26 June 2017.  
•  During the PRAC meeting on 6 July 2017, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice 
to CHMP. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 20 July 2017, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent 
to the applicant. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 9/48 
 
  
  
 
 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
12 September 2017. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Outstanding 
Issues to all CHMP members on 27 September 2017.  
•  During the meeting on 12 October 2017, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
authorisation to Tacforius. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This is a generic application for Tacforius prolonged-release hard capsules containing tacrolimus as active 
substance. In order to support this application the applicant conducted three bioequivalence studies in 
healthy volunteers: 
•  Single Dose 2-Stage Futility Crossover Comparative Bioavailability Study of Tacrolimus 5mg 
Prolonged-Release Capsules in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers / Fasting State (Protocol No:TVY-
P7-885) 
•  Single Dose 2-Stage Futility Crossover Comparative Bioavailability Study of Tacrolimus 5 mg 
Prolonged-Release Capsules in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers/Fed State (Protocol No: TVY-P8-
763) 
•  A Multiple-Dose, Comparative Bioavailability Study of Two Formulations of Tacrolimus 5 mg Prolonged 
Release Capsules under Fasting Conditions (Study No: 2016-4130) 
The indications sought for Tacforius are the same as those of the reference medicinal product: 
• 
• 
Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult kidney or liver allograft recipients. 
Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal 
products in adult patients. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as hard gelatin capsules containing 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 3 mg or 5 mg of 
tacrolimus (as monohydrate) as the active substance.  
Other ingredients of the capsule content are ethylcellulose, hypromellose 2910, lactose monohydrate and 
magnesium stearate. The capsule shells used in 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 3 mg strengths are composed of red iron 
oxide (E172), yellow iron oxide (E172), titanium dioxide (E171) and gelatin. The capsule shells used in 5 mg 
strength contain, in addition, black iron oxide (E172) and Ponceau 4R (E124). The printing ink comprises 
shellac, propylene glycol, black iron oxide (E172) and potassium hydroxide. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 10/48 
 
  
  
The product is available in transparent PVC/PVDC aluminium blisters or perforated unit-dose blisters 
wrapped in an aluminium pouch with a desiccant as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
The chemical name of tacrolimus is [3S-[3R*[E(1S*,3S*,4S*)]4S*,5R*,8S*,9E,12R*,14R*,15S*,16R*, 
18S*,19S*,26aR*]]-5,6,8,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,24,25,26,26a-hexadecahydro-5,19-dihydroxy-3-[2-
(4-hydroxy-3-methoxy cyclohexyl)-1-methylethenyl]-14,16-dimethoxy- 4,10,12,18-tetramethyl-8-(2-
propenyl)-15,19-epoxy-3H-pyrido[2,1-c] [1,4] oxaazacyclotricosine-1,7,20,21(4H,23H)-tetrone, 
monohydrate corresponding to the molecular formula C 44H69NO12·H2O. It has a relative molecular mass 
822.05 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1. Structure of tacrolimus 
The structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of elemental analysis, infrared 
spectroscopy (IR), NMR, mass spectrometry (MS), UV spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), 
X-ray diffraction analysis (XRPD), chromatography (HPLC) and thermogravimetic analysis (TGA). Tacrolimus 
is sufficiently characterised and its structure is adequately elucidated.  
Tacrolimus appears as a white to off-white non-hygroscopic powder. It is very soluble in acetone and ethanol 
and practically insoluble in water. Its pKa value was found to be 9.96 ± 0.70. 
The structure of tacrolimus contains 14 chiral centres and 2 double bonds. Due to the biosynthetic origin, the 
chirality is assured by the biosynthesis and was proved by X-ray crystal structure determination. Only two 
epimeric products have been described in the literature so far and both were presented as potential 
impurities: tautomer II (tacrolimus 19-epimer) and 21-epi-tacrolimus (tacrolimus 8-epimer). No other 
epimeric impurities were identified during the development of the process for the manufacture of tacrolimus.  
Tacrolimus is known to exist in isomorphic anhydrous form and hydrate. The active substance manufacturer 
consistently produces the same crystalline form, which according to the provided data is stable. 
Manufacture 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance was provided in the restricted part of the 
ASMF and was considered satisfactory. 
Tacrolimus is a natural product manufactured by isolation from fermentation broth. The process consists of 
the following steps: inoculation and fermentation, isolation of crude tacrolimus and purification of crude 
tacrolimus. 
Critical and non-critical process steps and parameters have been identified, the in-process controls (IPCs) 
applied during the synthesis of the active substance are adequate. IPCs and actions in case of out-of-
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 11/48 
 
  
  
 
specification (OOS) for any of the intermediate products of the final active substance are outlined. Adequate 
specifications were presented for the different intermediates of the manufacture of the active substance. The 
analytical methods were sufficiently described. 
The control strategy ensures consistent quality of the active substance. The characterisation of the active 
substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on chemistry of active substances. 
Tacrolimus is a natural product isolated from the fermentation broth and thus the potential impurities are its 
analogues and isomers which are also present in the broth. Some other impurities can be degradation 
products, formed during the isolation. Information on the fate of potential degradation products was given. 
The whole manufacturing process was designed to eliminate these potential impurities and produce pure 
tacrolimus. The potential impurities are controlled in the active substance by validated test methods. It has 
been demonstrated that the impurities are adequately controlled during manufacturing of the active 
substance. Tacrolimus is a fermentation product without any further synthetic modification and so it is out of 
scope of ICH M7. 
The absence of microbiological impurities was demonstrated on three batches of tacrolimus crude 
intermediate. 
In addition, microbial quality was determined in five consecutive recently manufactured tacrolimus bathes 
using Ph. Eur. method (5.1.4) and USP method <1111>. Results from three consecutive production scale 
batches of tacrolimus crude intermediate demonstrated absence of microbiological impurities. 
The primary packaging material is of food grade and complies with the requirements of Ph. Eur. and 
European Directive 10/2011 as amended.  
Specification 
The specification for tacrolimus includes appropriate tests and limits for appearance (visual), identification 
(IR, HPLC), water content (Karl-Fischer), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), related substances (HPLC), assay 
including tautomer content (HPLC), residual solvents (GC) and microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.). 
The proposed tests and acceptance criteria for tacrolimus are considered acceptable and justified. 
The set limits for impurities are justified in accordance with the Ph.Eur. Tacrolimus monograph published in 
Ph.Eur. Supplement 9.3. 
Limits for residual solvents have been adequately justified and are acceptable.  
Optical rotation is not considered a sensitive enough test to identify stereomeric impurities. The overall 
stereochemistry is controlled by the fermentation organism and relevant diastereomers can be detected by 
the HPLC method. Therefore, a test for optical rotation is not deemed necessary.  
Adequate data which shows that the polymorphic form is stable has been provided. Therefore, no test for 
polymorphic form is included in the specification. 
The analytical procedures used in the control of the active substance have generally been satisfactorily 
described and validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Information regarding the reference 
standards used in the analytical testing is satisfactory. 
Batch analysis data from three production scale batches of the active substance were provided. The results 
were within the specifications and confirm consistency of the manufacturing process from batch to batch.  
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 12/48 
 
  
  
Stability 
Stability data from six production scale batches of active substance stored in the intended commercial 
packaging for up to 60 months under long term conditions (25 °C / 60 % RH) and for up to 6 months under 
accelerated conditions (40 °C / 75 % RH) were provided according to the ICH guidelines.  
Samples were tested for appearance, water content, tautomer content, assay and related substances. The 
test methods were the same as for release and are stability indicating. No significant changes to any of the 
measured parameters were observed under long term and accelerated conditions and all remained within 
specification. 
Photostability testing on one production scale batch following the ICH guideline Q1B was provided. 
Tacrolimus can be considered slightly photosensitive and for long term storage, it is recommended to be 
protected from light. 
Stress testing on one production scale batch (heat stress in solid state and in solution, acid and alkaline 
stress, oxidation, UV stress in solid state and in solution) was also performed, the stability indicating nature 
of the analytical test method is considered acceptable. 
Overall the stability results justify the proposed retest period and storage conditions. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as prolonged-release, hard gelatin capsules containing 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 3 mg, 
or 5 mg of tacrolimus. The capsules appear as follows: 
0.5 mg: size 5 hard gelatine capsules filled with white to off-white powder; body: light orange with “0.5 mg” 
radial black imprinting; cap: light yellow with “TR” radial black imprinting. 
1 mg: size 4 hard gelatine capsules filled with white to off-white powder; body: light orange with “1 mg” 
radial black imprinting; cap: white with “TR” radial black imprinting. 
3 mg: size 1 hard gelatine capsules filled with white to off-white powder; body: light orange with “3 mg” 
radial black imprinting; cap: light orange with “TR” radial black imprinting. 
5 mg: size 0 hard gelatine capsules filled with white to off-white powder; body: light orange with “5 mg” 
radial black imprinting; cap: greyish red with “TR” radial black imprinting. 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to obtain generic prolonged-release capsules bioequivalent 
to the reference medicinal product on the EU market, Advagraf 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 3 mg and 5 mg prolonged-
release hard capsules. 
Key physicochemical characteristics of the active substance were discussed. Based on the presented 
information it can be concluded that the finished product manufacturing process and finished product storage 
have no impact on chiral assay and stereoisomeric impurities profile of the product. 
The formulation was based on the composition of the reference product. Dissolution and bioequivalence 
studies served as tools in devising a suitable formulation. A formulation strategy was developed in order to 
optimise the manufacturing process. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 13/48 
 
  
  
The excipients of the capsule content are the same as in the reference product. Their suitability for the 
intended use in the specific type of product and active substance can thus be assumed. Excipient 
characteristics that could influence finished product quality have been adequately discussed. The formulation 
of the capsule content is also qualitatively the same as the reference product. Ethylcellulose is used as a 
prolonged release matrix former, hypromellose and lactose monohydrate function as pore formers in the 
ethylcellulose matrix and as dissolution enhancers.The list of excipients is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC 
and in paragraph 2.2.1 of this report. 
In the first set of development experiments the objective was to investigate the effect of different excipient 
grades and quantities on product characteristics along with processability and test different capsules in vivo 
for bioequivalence.  In the next set of experiments, the aim was to improve the active substance release rate 
and achieve bioequivalence of the product versus the reference medicinal product taking the available pilot in 
vivo results into consideration. Literature data were also considered. Further development work was focusing 
on 3 main areas: optimising the amount of different excipients, investigating the effect of particle size of the 
granules, and investigating the effect of process parameters on product characteristics. Next, the critical 
process parameters were investigated. Bioequivalence study results supported the conclusions from the 
above experiments. The tested batch was proven to be bioequivalent with the reference product. 
Subsequently, scale up and process optimization work was initiated. 
Based on the development work, batches were manufactured for biostudy, stability and registration 
purposes. The manufacturing process for the pilot batches encompasses solid dispersion manufacturing, 
blending and encapsulation. The process used for the pilot batches gives sufficient control over the final 
product. The formulation and process will ensure that the physical and chemical characteristics of commercial 
batches of capsules will comply with the specification requirements. 
Detailed information was provided on dissolution method development. Since dissolution is an important 
control test for a prolonged release product, two separate methods (QC1 and QC2) are used and to control 
unintended rapid release (“dose dumping”) and complete release respectively. Considering the data provided 
and taking into consideration that a similar approach for dissolution testing is used for the reference product, 
the chosen approach is considered acceptable. The dissolution testing conditions (apparatus, media volume 
and stirring speed) are in-line with the Ph. Eur. recommendations on dissolution testing. The chosen sampling 
time points are acceptable based on the reference product results. 
The discriminatory power of the QC1 dissolution method has been sufficiently demonstrated. It was not 
considered necessary to demonstrate that method QC2 is discriminatory too, because any differences in the 
release profile would be more likely to be detected by method QC1. 
Additionally the effect of alcohol on active substance release at pH 1.2 with 0%, 5%, 10%, 20% and 40% 
alcohol (sampling time up to 2 hours) was evaluated. Tacforius follows a similar release mechanism in the 
presence of alcohol as the reference product in the 5-40% concentration range, with drug release rate 
increasing as a function of alcohol content. Therefore, it is recommended that alcohol is not consumed by 
patients taking tacrolimus.  
A bioequivalence study was conducted comparing test and reference products at the highest strength 5 mg. 
Comparative dissolution data were provided between the test and reference products batches used in the 
bioequivalence study showing similar profiles. A biowaiver was requested for the other lower strengths. 
Dissolution studies were performed in 3 different pH media 1.2, 4.5, 6.8 plus with the QC method in order to 
support the strength biowaiver. Dissolution profiles of the additional strengths at different pH media were 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 14/48 
 
  
  
compared to the 5 mg batch biobatch and shown to be similar thus supporting the biowaiver for all three 
lower strengths. 
The finished product is packed into transparent PVC/PVDC-aluminium blisters. PVC/PVDC-aluminium blisters 
are packed into a multilayer aluminium pouch with desiccant. The blister material complies with Ph. Eur. and 
EC requirements. The choice of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is 
adequate for the intended use of the product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process of tacrolimus 0.5, 1, 3 and 5 mg prolonged-release capsules is divided into 2 
phases and each phase comprises 6 main steps. Preparation of the intra-granular phase comprises paste 
preparation, film casting, drying, milling and sieving, base granule blending and dispensing the finished base 
granule. Preparation of the finished product comprises a series of blending steps to combine the granules 
with extra-granular excipients, encapsulation and packaging. 
Critical steps have been adequately described; the in-process controls are considered appropriate and 
adequate.  
Process validation results have been provided for three consecutive batches of each strength. According to 
the provided process validation reports, the maximum commercial batch sizes for which the process is 
validated have been defined. 
Holding times proposed for the proposed intermediates were based on relevant stability studies and are 
found acceptable. 
In conclusion, it has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is sufficiently robust to provide 
assurance that hard capsules of consistent quality, complying with the designated specification, are 
produced. 
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf-life specifications include appropriate tests and limits for description 
(visual), identification (UHPLC, TLC), uniformity of dosage units by content uniformity (Ph. Eur., UHPLC), 
dissolution (Ph. Eur., HPLC), assay (UHPLC), impurities/degradation products (HPLC), and microbiological 
quality (Ph. Eur.).  
The specifications comply with the requirements of the Ph. Eur. for capsules as well as the ICH Q6A guideline. 
Detailed justification is provided on the proposed limits for known impurities and for not testing solvents or 
elemental impurities. The finished product is not in the scope of ICH Q3B. However, release and shelf-life 
limits for impurities are set based on the thresholds referenced in ICH Q3B and actual batch data. In the 
absence of other guidance applicable to the present finished product, the applicant´s approach for setting 
impurity limits is considered reasonable. The release and shelf-life limits for total impurities are acceptable. 
The proposed limits for dissolution testing are set in compliance with Ph. Eur. recommendations on 
dissolution testing of prolonged release dosage forms (Ph. Eur.). The specified acceptable ranges are justified 
in compliance with the guideline on quality of oral modified release products. A test for disintegration was not 
included in the finished product specifications. However, this is acceptable as a dissolution test is performed. 
The proposed limits for microbiological quality comply with Ph. Eur. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 15/48 
 
  
  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and validated in accordance with the ICH 
guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used in the routine analysis of finished 
product has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from three production scale and three pilot scale batches of each strength have been 
presented. All data is within specification. The results show that the finished product can be manufactured 
with consistent quality and meet its specifications. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data was provided from three production scale batches of each strength stored under long term 
conditions for up to 18 months (25 °C / 60% RH) for the 3 and 5 mg strengths and for up to 12 months for 
the 0.5 and 1 mg strength.  For all strengths, 6 months’ stability data under accelerated conditions 
(40 °C / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines was provided. The bracketing approach applied for 
different pack sizes, based on the relation of the amount of silica gel desiccant in the pouch and pack size is 
generally acceptable. The stability batches are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in 
the primary packaging proposed for marketing. The following parameters were investigated: description, 
dissolution, assay, impurities/degradation products. The methods used were the same as for release testing 
and are stability indicating. Under both long term and accelerated conditions, there was no change in the 
appearance of the capsules. Some variability within the assay and dissolution results was seen, however, no 
significant trend was apparent and all the results met the specifications. The known impurities increased but 
all results remained well below the specification limits. 
In-use stability studies have been initiated in accordance with the Note for Guidance on In-use Stability 
Testing of Human Medicinal Products (CPMP/QWP/2934/99). Blisters in the opened aluminium pouch and 
blisters kept outside the aluminium pouch were tested under long term storage conditions. No change in the 
appearance of the capsules was observed. There was some variability within the assay and dissolution 
results, however, no significant trend was apparent and the results always met the specifications. There was 
some increase in known impurity levels, however all results were well within the acceptance criteria. 
Tacrolimus prolonged-release capsules, packaged in PVC/PVDC–Aluminium blisters are stable for at least 12 
months after first opening the aluminium pouch. In-use stability of the finished product should also be 
confirmed with a batch close to the end of its shelf-life. In this regard the CHMP recommended the MAH to 
perform a 100 day in-use stability of the finished product using the 100 capsule pack with a batch close to 
the end of the shelf-life. Taking into account that the finished product is a “non-critical” dosage form 
(capsule, oral use) and also the provided capsules bulk stability data this is considered acceptable. 
Photostability testing was performed on one commercial scale batch of the highest and lowest strengths 
according to ICH Q1B. The applied bracketing of strengths is acceptable. The appearance of the unprotected 
exposed capsules did not change. There was some decrease in assay in exposed unprotected samples, which 
was more pronounced in case of the 0.5 mg strength. However, all results were within the specification 
limits. Impurity levels generally increased after exposure and, for certain unknown impurities, were above 
the specification limit. Exposed samples of the product packed in blister and aluminium pouch were not 
affected. The results show that the finished product is sensitive to light and that the selected packaging 
materials are capable of providing proper protection from its effect. 
A forced degradation study was carried out on the finished product in order to demonstrate the stability 
indicating nature of the assay and related substances methods. Samples of finished product were tested after 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 16/48 
 
  
  
exposure to acidic, basic, oxidative conditions, elevated temperature, and UV light. The results of degradation 
studies demonstrate that that the assay and related substances methods are stability indicating.  
Based on the provided stability data, the proposed shelf life of 30 months for the 3 mg and 5 mg strength 
capsules and 2 years for the 0.5 mg and 1 mg capsules, as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) is acceptable. 
The product must be stored in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture but does not 
require any special temperature storage conditions as stated in the SmPC (section 6.4). 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
Gelatin used in the hard capsules is obtained from bovine sources. Valid TSE CEPs from the suppliers of the 
gelatin were provided. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue regarding the in-use stability of 
the finished product (refer to “Stability of the product” above and “Recommendation for future quality 
development” below) having no impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented to 
give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAH to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the CHMP 
recommends the following points for investigation: 
- In-use stability of the finished product should be confirmed with a batch close to the end of the shelf-life. 
In this regard the applicant committed to perform a 100 day in-use stability study of the finished product 
using the 100 capsule pack with a batch of the tested strengths close to the end of its shelf-life. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 17/48 
 
  
  
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable. Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are 
required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) data were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Tacrolimus manufactured by Teva B.V. is considered unlikely to result in any significant 
increase in the combined sales volumes for all tacrolimus containing products and the exposure of the 
environment to the active substance. The CHMP agreed with this justification. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology justifies based on up-to-
date and adequate scientific literature why there is no need to generate additional non-clinical data. This was 
considered acceptable and it was agreed that no further non-clinical studies were required. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile was discussed 
and was considered acceptable. 
The Applicant’s justification for omission of an environmental risk assessment was considered acceptable. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP concluded that there were no objections to granting the approval of Tacforius 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 3 mg, 
5 mg prolonged-release hard capsules from a non-clinical point of view. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for prolonged release hard capsule, containing tacrolimus. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted 3 bioequivalence studies, 2 with cross-over design and one 
comparative bioavailability study of two formulations of Tacrolimus 5mg prolonged release capsules. These 
studies were the pivotal studies to support the efficacy and safety of the applied medicinal product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 18/48 
 
  
  
 
GCP 
The bioequivalence studies were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the Community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption 
Biowaiver for additional strengths 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  marketing  authorization  for  four  different  strengths  of  tacrolimus  prolonged 
release  hard  capsules-  0.5  mg,  1  mg,  3  mg  and  5  mg.  According  to  the  Guideline  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98),  the  bioequivalence  was  demonstrated  at  the  highest  strength 
(i.e.  5  mg).  The  bioequivalence  for  the  other  strengths  was  asked  to  be  waived  based  on  the  following 
general requirements: 
1.  Linearity  
According to the Advagraf EPAR (Scientific discussion 2007), linearity was demonstrated in the dose 
range of 1.5 mg to 10 mg. At the time of the submission, no information regarding linearity in lower 
dose  ranges  was  provided.  The  applicant  was  asked  to  present  further  information  concerning  dose 
linearity and provided information showing linearity for the 1 mg strength but failed to do so for the 
0.5 mg strength.   
CHMP asked the applicant to provide additional information supporting dose linearity also for the 0.5 
mg strength.  
Although  no  direct  pharmacokinetic  data  for  the  0.5  mg  strength  was  available,  the  applicant 
presented  relevant  published  literature  and  in-house  data,  discussing  it  in  sufficient  detail.  The 
discussion provides information to expect linear pharmacokinetics over the whole dose range (0.5 mg 
– 10 mg) of tacrolimus and a biowaiver for the lowest strength (0.5 mg) was hence accepted. 
2.  General biowaiver criteria: 
• 
The applicant assured that the pharmaceutical products submitted in this application are 
manufactured by the same manufacturing process at the proposed commercial manufacturing 
site.  
•  All strengths had the same qualitative composition, except the colouring agents. The different 
colours of the gelatine are deemed acceptable for discriminations reasons. 
•  Referring to proportionality of compositions, it is regarded fulfilled for the capsule filling, but 
it  is  not  seen  with  the  gelatin  capsule  and  the  colour  agents.  As  Tacforius  is  a  prolonged 
release product, according to the guideline there is a deviation in this condition. But since the 
sub-condition “the amount of the active substance is less than 5 % of the tablet core weight, 
the  weight  of  the  capsule  content”  is  fulfilled  (it  is  in  all  strengths  below  1%),  the 
quantitatively  proportional  composition  of  the  strengths  can  be  regarded 
fulfilled. 
Furthermore,  the  different  gelatine  content  is  related  to  the  different  standardised  capsule 
sizes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 19/48 
 
  
  
•  Dissolution studies were performed in 3 different pH media (1.2, 4.5 and 6.8) in order to 
confirm the adequacy of waiving additional in vivo bioequivalence testing referring to the 4 
different strengths of Tacforius.  
In addition, dissolution studies in the media intended for drug product release were also 
performed. 
The dissolution profiles of the different strengths were considered as similar. 
Effect of alcohol on the active substance release 
According to the Guideline on the pharmacokinetic and clinical evaluation of modified release dosage forms 
(EMA/CPMP/EWP/280/96 Corr1), in vitro dissolution tests were performed to check the compatibility of the 
proportional prolonged release formulation of TEVA finished products with alcohol on the Tacforius 0.5 mg 
and 5 mg PR Capsules and to compare the 0.5 mg and 5 mg EU reference product Advagraf. 
Dissolution conditions used for the alcoholic compatibility study were the same as in the NaCl, HCl pH=1.2 
medium, but a justified range of alcohol (i.e. 5%, 10%, 20% and 40%) was added. The alcoholic dissolution 
testing was performed on 12 capsules with sampling up to 2 hours. 
Although not all graphs were totally similar at all time points, comparable increase can be observed in the 
active substance release with the increase of the alcohol content in the dissolution medium in case of Teva 
and reference products.  
Teva prolonged release formulation follows a similar release mechanism in the presence of alcohol as the 
reference product in the 5-20% concentration range. In the media containing 40% alcohol, Teva products 
and Advagraf products exhibited an immediate-release like profile, which was even more pronounced in case 
of the 0.5 mg strength, where both the reference and the test products showed complete dissolution after 15 
minutes.  
Both the reference and Teva products are clearly incompatible with 40% ethanol. But the 40% ethanol 
concentration can hardly be reached in the stomach in vivo and is hence physiologically not regarded as 
relevant. Furthermore, it does not seem likely that a patient with kidney or liver transplantation will consume 
tacrolimus capsules together with high amounts of high percentage alcohol.  
Clinical studies 
To support this application, the applicant has submitted three bioequivalence studies.  
The chosen studies are in line with the recommendation of the EMA Guideline on the pharmacokinetic and 
clinical evaluation of modified release dosage forms (EMA/CPMP/EWP/280/96Corr1), generally required for 
demonstrating bioequivalence between prolonged released formulations for oral administration in: 
• 
• 
• 
a single-dose fasting study comparing test and reference drug product  
a single-dose fed study using a high-fat meal comparing test and reference drug product 
a multiple-dose study comparing test and reference drug product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 20/48 
 
  
  
 
Table 1. Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Dimension 
Conditions 
Study 
Number 
Test Product 
Test Product 
Batch Number 
Test Product 
Batch Size 
Pivotal 
Fed 
TVY-P8-763 
Pivotal 
Fasting 
TVY-P7-885 
Pivotal 
Fasting 
2016-4130 
Tacrolimus 5 
mg Prolonged-
Release 
Capsules 
Tacrolimus 5 
mg Prolonged-
Release 
Capsules 
Tacrolimus 5 
mg Prolonged-
Release 
Capsules 
1731015 
100,000 
1731015 
100,000 
1731015 
100,000 
As stated above (see heading Exemption), the bioequivalence was stablished at only one strength (5 mg 
prolonged release capsules) and it was claimed a waiver to the lower strengths as the following general 
requirements were met: 
1) 
2) 
3) 
Linearity in pharmacokinetics was given  
General biowaiver criteria were fulfilled   
Results of in vitro dissolution tests (complementary to bioequivalence studies) at three 
different buffers (normally pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8) and the media intended for drug product 
release (QC media), obtained with the batches of test and reference products that were used 
in the bioequivalence study were reported accordingly. 
4) 
Referring to the modified release guideline (PK and clinical), the substance should comply 
with a multiple unit formulation. Since the composition was proportional, the formulation 
contained identical base granules (containing the release controlling excipients, produced by 
the same manufacturing process) and the dissolution profiles were in principle regarded as 
similar (based on a bootstrap similarity factor calculation), therefore the prerequisite was 
fulfilled for a multiple unit formulation.  
Dissolution tests complementary to BE studies 
The  dissolution profiles of the  Teva  and  reference products  used in  pilot  bioequivalence  studies  were tested 
throughout  the  physiological  pH  range  for  24  hours.  The  data  obtained  demonstrated  that  the  use  of 
surfactant  was  warranted.  According  to  the  EMA  Guideline  on  quality  of  oral  modified  release  products 
(EMA/492713/2013),  in  principle  surfactant  could  be  used  in  the  dissolution  medium,  the  amount  needed 
should be justified. To increase the solubility of tacrolimus a surfactant was used and its level was justified. 
Sink conditions were not reached, but total dissolution could be reached with this surfactant. 
Only  small  differences  were  present  in  the  otherwise  similarly  shaped  graphs  between  the  different 
biobatches  of  Advagraf  and  Tacforius  5  mg  prolonged  release  capsules  in  the  different  media.  Those 
differences  were  regarded  as  too  small  to  be  of  importance  for  the  real  in  vivo  behaviour.  Especially  and 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 21/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
according to the BE-GL, bioequivalence of the 5 mg test and reference products could be clearly shown in the 
BE-studies. 
For the 3 lower strengths (0.5 mg, 1mg and 3mg) a strengths-biowaiver was claimed by the applicant. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study TVY-P8-763: Single Dose 2-Stage Futility Crossover Comparative BA Study of Tacrolimus 5 
mg Prolonged-Release Capsules in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers / Fed State 
Methods 
Study design  
The study was a single-centre, randomized, single dose, laboratory-blinded, two-period, two-sequence, two-
stage, futility, crossover design in healthy male and female subjects under fed conditions to evaluate the 
comparative bioavailability between the test (Tacforius 5 mg prolonged-release capsule) and the reference 
(Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release capsule) products. 
The clinical part of the study took place from 17th of March 2016 till 6th of July 2016. 
Subjects arrived at the clinical site at least 10.5 hours prior to dosing. After a supervised overnight fast, 
subjects received a standardized high-fat, high-calorie meal 30 minutes before drug administration. Thirty 
minutes after the start of breakfast, a single 5 mg oral dose of the assigned formulation was administered in 
the morning with approximately 240 mL of water at ambient temperature, starting at 08:00, to one subject 
per minute.  
The 60 included subjects received a single oral dose of 5 mg of the randomly assigned drug product in each 
period, separated by a 14-day wash-out period. 
In each study period, 25 blood samples were collected for each subject. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic 
measurements were collected prior (not more than 2 hrs) to drug administration and at 1.00, 1.50, 2.00, 
2.50, 3.00, 3.50, 4.00, 4.33, 4.67, 5.00, 5.50, 6.00, 7.00, 8.00, 9.00, 10.00, 12.00, 16.00, 24.00, 48.00, 
72.00, 96.00, 120.00, and 144.00 hours following drug administration. 
The analysed compound was the parent, what is in line with the SmPC of the reference product and with the 
product specific guideline on tacrolimus (EMA/CHMP/159744/2016). The analysed matrix was whole blood, 
what is also in line with the product specific guideline (EMA/CHMP/159744/2016) and results from tacrolimus 
binding strongly to erythrocytes. 
The sampling period of 144 hrs, AUC0-144hrs covering more than 80% of AUC0-inf (residual area of 4.46 and 
4.49% for test and reference, respectively) and the sampling scheme (median of 6.0 and 5.5 hrs for test and 
reference respectively) are regarded as adequate in relation to the relevant PK parameters. 
Subjects were allowed to leave the clinical site after the 48-hour post dose blood draw and were asked to 
return to the clinical site before each of the 4 remaining blood samples. 
The wash-out period of 14 days (336 hrs) is regarded as long enough, since it covers more than the 
requested at least 5 elimination half-lives. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 22/48 
 
  
  
The products were administered to 60 subjects in a 2-stage futility design: 28 subjects were dosed in the first 
group (stage 1), 32 subjects in the second group (stage 2). 
Statistical analysis was done separately for the data of the first stage, and on the combined data of the two 
stages. The first analysis was performed after the first stage was completed.  
Normally, interim analyses require an adjustment for multiplicity of testing. In this case, the interim analysis 
was only done to prematurely recognize, if the study were on the right way or if it would fail. Failure would 
have led to the termination of the study. Since it was predefined in the protocol, that BE would only be 
calculated based on both stages, this is deemed an acceptable method that does not need further adjustment 
than the inclusion of the stage as additional statistical factor, as it was done by the applicant. 
Blinding of the subjects or the clinical staff is not regarded necessary in a bioequivalence study comparing PK 
parameters. Blinding of the bioanalytical staff was assured, what is deemed adequate for the evaluation of 
bioequivalent PK parameters. 
Test and reference products  
Tacforius 5 mg manufactured at the proposed commercial site has been compared to Advagraf (Tacrolimus) 5 
mg by Astellas Ireland Co.  Ireland. The applicant confirmed that the unit formula of the 5 mg biobatch is 
identical to the proposed commercial formulation.  
Population studied 
Study population consisted of 60 non- or ex-smoking, male (33) and female (27) volunteers, between 19 and 
60 years of age, with a BMI from 18.5 to 29.6 kg/m2 who were judged healthy based on a medical history, 
ECG, laboratory evaluation, physical examination and vital signs measurements, willing to use an acceptable 
effective method of contraception. Among the patients, 51 were White, 6 Black, 2 Asian, 1 Other 
(white/black). A total of 60 subjects were included in this study and, after randomization, 57 subjects (95%) 
received the Test and 59 subjects (98%) received the Reference. 
Four subjects (7%) discontinued the study, of which 2 (3%) discontinued for personal reasons and 2 (3%) 
were withdrawn due to positive results of urine drug screen (positive for cotinine, obviously having smoked, 
although prohibited). 56 subjects (93%) completed the study. 
Subject 309 was excluded from the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis after completing both periods 
and receiving both formulations under study due to 9 episodes of diarrhoea during period 2, from 5.87 to 
16.02 hours following drug administration. Considering the long period of time over which the diarrhoea was 
observed (more than 2 times the expected Tmax of 4.6 hours), and the first episode started shortly after the 
expected Tmax, absorption could still have been occurring and be compromised. Hence, the exclusion of the 
PK and statistical analysis can be accepted. 
Pharmacokinetic Population 
55 subjects were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
Out of those 55, three subjects (subjects 306, 333 and 351) were included for the Cmax and Tmax 
parameters only, due to diarrhoeal episodes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 23/48 
 
  
  
The inclusion of the three subjects on the AUC-results is considered to have only small influence on the total 
outcome. Hence bioequivalence is shown between the 5 mg Test formulation and the 5 mg Reference 
product. 
Safety Population 
The safety population included all of the subjects who entered the study and received at least one of the 
investigational products (n= 60). 
Analytical methods 
The analytical part of the study lasted from 11.04.2016 till 03.08.2016. The study samples were obtained 
stored at a nominal temperature of -20ºC. A total of 2898 samples from 60 subjects (25 time-points per 
subject, 2 periods) were analysed; the theoretical amount of samples is 3000.  
As regards Tacrolimus (analyte), internal standard was Ascomycin; samples were extracted from a 1.0 mL 
aliquot of K2EDTA human whole blood by liquid-liquid extraction. The extracted samples were injected into a 
liquid chromatograph. 
The detection method used was tandem mass spectrometry detector. 
Quantitation was determined by peak area ratio method. A weighted (1/c2) linear regression was performed 
to determine the concentration of the analyte. 
The validated calibration range for the assay of Tacrolimus was from 50.0 pg/mL to 50.00 ng/mL.  
The analytical method for the determination of Tacrolimus in human whole blood as well as respective 
validation was described adequately; the validation was performed according to the requirements of the EMA 
“Guideline on bioanalytical method validation” (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009 Rev. 1 Corr 2*). Acceptance 
criteria were in a plausible range and were fulfilled. 
The bioanalytical method demonstrates acceptable performance and is suitable for the determination of 
Tacrolimus in K2EDTA human whole blood over the calibration range. 
The bioanalytical methodology explained above was also performed in the study TVY-P7-885 and the study 
2016-4130. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The following pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated using a non-compartmental approach: 
AUC0-t  
Cumulative area under the blood concentration-time curve, calculated from 0 to Time of last 
observed quantifiable blood concentration (TLQC) using the linear trapezoidal method. 
AUC0-∞  
Area under the blood concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity (calculated as AUC0-T 
+ ĈLQC/λz, where ĈLQC is the estimated concentration at time TLQC) 
Residual area   Extrapolated area (i.e. percentage of AUC0-∞ due to extrapolation from TLQC to infinity).  
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 24/48 
 
  
  
 
Cmax  
Tmax  
Maximum observed blood concentration 
Time  of  maximum  observed  blood  concentration;  if  it  occurs  at  more  than  one  time  point, 
Tmax is defined as the first time point with this value 
λz  
Apparent  elimination  rate  constant,  estimated  by  linear  regression  of  the  terminal  linear 
portion of the log concentration versus time curve 
Thalf  
Terminal elimination half-life, calculated as ln(2)/ λz 
Cmax,  AUC0-t  and  AUC0-∞  were  the  main  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  interest  for  the  bioequivalence 
studies.  
Other parameters such as Tmax, residual area, λZ and Thalf were provided for information purposes only. 
Due to the long Thalf (according to Advagraf SmPC approx. 43 hours, from the results of this study with fed 
subjects, around 33.5 hours) accumulation is for sure if taken once daily as recommended.  
AUC0-t was measured till 144 hrs.  
The selected pharmacokinetic parameters are in accordance with the modified-released Guideline and 
accepted.  
Statistical methods 
Descriptive  statistics  were  calculated  for  blood  concentrations  at  each  individual  time  point  and  for  all 
pharmacokinetic  parameters.  The  individual  blood  concentration/time  profiles  were  presented  using  the 
actual  sampling  times  whereas  the  mean  blood  concentration/time  profiles  were  presented  using  the 
theoretical  sampling  times.  The  pharmacokinetic  and  statistical  analyses  were  generated  using  Phoenix® 
WinNonlin® version 6.3, Phoenix® ConnectTM version 1.3.1 and SAS® version 9.4 (GLM procedure). 
The  statistical  analysis  was  based  on  a  parametric  ANOVA  model  of  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters;  the 
two-sided 90% confidence interval of the ratio of geometric means for the  Cmax,  AUC0-t and  AUC0-∞ was 
based on ln-transformed data; Tmax was based on a non-parametric approach. 
Test  of  fixed  period,  sequence  and  treatment  effects  were  based  on  the  Wilcoxon’s  rank  sum  test  (Mann- 
Whitney U-test). All other un-transformed and ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters were statistically 
analysed using an Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) model. The fixed factors included in this model were to be 
the subject effect (nested within sequence), the treatment received, the period at which it was given, as well 
as the sequence in which each treatment was received. If it was decided to proceed with the second stage, 
the ANOVA model was to be modified to include terms for stage, sequence, treatment, subject (nested within 
sequence-by-stage), period (nested within stage), and the sequence-by-stage interaction when analysing the 
combined data from the two stages. 
The  formula  to  estimate  the  intra-subject  coefficient  of  variation  was  to  be
,  where  MSE  is  the 
Mean Square Error obtained from the ANOVA model of the ln-transformed parameters. 
Bioequivalence could be concluded only based on the combined data of both stages, but not considering the 
data from just one of the stages. Since the study could not be finished with a bioequivalence conclusion after 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 25/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
the  first  stage,  there  was  no  risk  for  alpha  inflation  for  the  bioequivalence  assessment  of  the  combined 
stages. 
Statistical inference of tacrolimus was based on a bioequivalence approach using the following standards: 
The  ratio  of  geometric  LSmeans  with  corresponding  90.00%  confidence  interval  calculated  from  the 
exponential  of  the  difference  between  the  Test  and  Reference  products  for  the  ln-transformed  parameters 
Cmax should have been within the 80.00 to 125.00% bioequivalence range. 
The  ratio  of  geometric  LSmeans  with  corresponding  90.00%  confidence  interval  calculated  from  the 
exponential  of  the  difference  between  the  Test  and  Reference  products  for  the  ln-transformed  parameters 
AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ should all have been within the 90.00 to 111.11% bioequivalence range. 
According  to  the  Bioequivalence  guideline  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  Rev.  1/Corr**)  and  the  addressed 
PKWP  Q&A  (EMA/618604/2008  Rev.  13),  since  tacrolimus  is  a  narrow  therapeutic  index  drug,  a  tightened 
acceptance  interval  of  90.00-  111.11%  for  AUC  is  recommended.  Nevertheless,  tacrolimus  doesn’t  need 
narrowing of the acceptance range for the Cmax.  
Results 
Table 2. Pharmacokinetic parameters for tacrolimus (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
Reference  
arithmetic 
<geometric> mean 
SD  
CV% 
arithmetic 
<geometric> mean 
SD  
CV% 
AUC0-t  
AUC0-∞  
Cmax  
Tmax* 
AUC 0-t  
140303.5 pg*h/mL 
46361.0 
139832.2 pg*h/mL 
33.0% 
<132404.2 pg*h/mL> 
<131191.9 pg*h/mL> 
147151.8 pg*h/mL 
49296.0 
146633.8 pg*h/mL 
33.5% 
<138651.6 pg*h/mL> 
<137328.2 pg*h/mL> 
7298.5 pg/mL 
2495.5 
34.2% 
6860.5 
<6827.6 pg/mL> 
<6572.8 pg/mL> 
6.00 (2.50-16.07) hrs 
5.50 (1.50-16.00) hrs 
49501.5 
35.4% 
52163.0 
35.6% 
1926.4 
28.1% 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t (=144) hours 
AUC 0-∞    
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
C max  
T max  
maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 26/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Statistical analysis for tacrolimus (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Test/Reference 
Confidence Intervals 
CV%* 
AUC0-t  
AUC0-∞ 
Cmax  
100.92 
100.96 
103.88 
* estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
97.63-104.33% 
97.60-104.44% 
97.81-110.32% 
10.1% 
10.3% 
19.0% 
As described in the table above, bioequivalence has been appropriately shown between the 5 mg Test 
formulation and the 5 mg Reference product when administered as a single dose under fed conditions. 
Table 4. Summary of Blood Tacrolimus Pharmacokinetic Parameters 
TEST 
(n=55)* 
REFERENCE 
(n=55)* 
PARAMETER 
Cmax (pg/mL) 
In (Cmax) 
Tmax (hours)** 
MEAN 
C.V. (%) 
MEAN 
C.V (%) 
7298.5 
8.8349 
(34.2) 
(4.1) 
6860.5 
8.7938 
(28.1) 
(3.3) 
6.00 
(2.50-16.07) 
5.50 
(1.50-16.00) 
AUC0-t (pg.h/mL) 
140303.5 
In (AUC0-t) 
11.7959 
AUC0-∞ (pg.h/mL) 
147151.8 
In (AUC0-∞ ) 
11.8418 
Residual area (%) 
4.46 
λz (hours -1) 
0.0215 
Thalf (hours) 
*n=52 for λz, AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, Residual area, Thalf 
** Median (range) 
33.24 
(33.0) 
(2.9) 
(33.5) 
(3.0) 
(48.4) 
(17.8) 
(19.0) 
139832.2 
11.7859 
146633.8 
11.8321 
4.49 
0.0213 
33.66 
(35.4) 
(3.1) 
(35.6) 
(3.1) 
(45.0) 
(17.8) 
(19.0) 
Additionally provided parameters also support bioequivalence of Tacforius 5 mg prolonged release capsules to 
Advagraf 5 mg prolonged release capsules. 
Protocol deviations 
The main reasons for blood sampling time deviations were: Difficulty with vein/catheter, technical oversight, 
subject is early/late /absent (return visit), late due to previous subject sample. The mentioned reasons and 
number of deviations are considered to be in a normal range for clinical BE-studies done with 60 subjects (in 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 27/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a cross-over design). The protocol deviations reported for the subjects included in the analysis are judged to 
have no significant impact on the bioequivalence assessment or on subject’s safety. 
Safety data 
A total of 60 subjects were included in the study. After randomization, 57 subjects (95%) received the test 
(Tacrolimus) and 59 subjects (98%) received the reference (Advagraf). All subjects who received at least one 
of the investigational products (n= 60) were included in the safety population. Safety was evaluated through 
assessment  of  adverse  events,  standard  laboratory  evaluations,  and  vital  signs,  ECG  findings,  physical 
examination findings, and concomitant medication usage. A tuberculin blood or skin test was also performed 
(when required). 
Adverse events 
All AEs occurring after the initiation of the treatment were referred to as TEAEs (treatment-emergent adverse 
events). A total of 35 TEAEs were reported by 20 (33%) of the 60 subjects who participated in this study. Of 
these  events,  19  occurred  after  administration  of  the  test  and  the  other  16  after  administration  of  the 
reference. 
The  TEAEs  were  considered  drug-related  in  74%  of  occurrences,  following  the  Test  administration,  and  in 
75%  of  occurrences,  following  the  Reference  administration.  The  TEAEs  reported  in  this  study  were  most 
commonly  from  the  SOC  gastrointestinal  disorders  (5%  Test  and  12%  Reference).  The  most  frequently 
reported  TEAEs  in  this  study  were  diarrhoea  (5%  Test  and  3%  Reference)  and  vessel  puncture  site  bruise 
(5%  Test  and  2%  Reference).  Other  TEAEs,  reported  with  a  lower  frequency  (3%)  only  following  the 
administration  of  the  reference,  included  dyspepsia,  nausea,  and  back  pain.  The  remaining  TEAEs  were 
reported by no more than 1 subject (2%) within each group. 
The  incidence  of  TEAEs  was  similar  following  the  administration  of  the  Test  and  the  Reference  (23%  and 
19%, respectively). Also, the incidence of drug-related TEAEs was similar following the administration of the 
Test  and  the  Reference  (18%  and  14%,  respectively).  Overall,  most  of  the  TEAEs  were  deemed  mild  (31 
TEAEs, 89%) or moderate (3 TEAEs, 9%) in severity.  
One severe TEAE (diarrhoea) was experienced by one subject (2%) following the administration of the Test. 
This  TEAE  was  deemed  drug-related  by  the  investigator  and  resolved  approximately  within  10  hours.  Data 
from one subject were withdrawn from the PK analysis accordingly. 
The majority of the TEAEs were considered resolved at the study completion. Few TEAEs were ongoing at the 
end of the study; however, they were considered not clinically significant by the investigator. 
Two persons decided to withdraw consent due to AE (Subject 323 experiencing symptoms of moderate upper 
respiratory tract infection, the other subject experiencing nausea). 
No SAEs and no deaths were reported in any of the subjects enrolled in this study. No subject was withdrawn 
by the investigator for safety reasons. 
Clinical laboratory evaluation: 
The  main  abnormal  on-study  laboratory  values  were  minimal  deviations  of  haematology  values  like 
eosinophils, Hkt, Hb, lymphocytes, MCV and platelets, as well as traces of blood and leukocytes in the urine. 
The  judgements  of  “not  clinically  significant”  are  understandable  from  a  clinician’s  point  of  view  (females 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 28/48 
 
  
  
being  included).  All  serology  results  were  negative,  all  serum  pregnancy  tests  were  negative  and  all 
tuberculin test results at screening were negative. 
Vital signs, ECGs, physical findings 
Generally, the subjects showed vital signs within normal range in both treatment groups. Slight tachycardia, 
and slightly elevated blood pressure values were presented and regarded as NCS what can be accepted from 
a  clinician’s  point  of  view.  No  clinically  significant  abnormal  physical  examination  findings  were  recorded  in 
this study. 
Concomitant Medications 
Two subjects (3%) received concomitant medication during this study. Subject 323 received Tylenol Cold for 
Night (acetaminophen /dextromethorphan hydrobromide/phenylephrine hydrochloride/chlorpheniramine 
maleate) for the treatment of a moderate upper respiratory tract infection (URTI). Due to this infection this 
subject withdrew the consent. Subject 350 received acetaminophen off site on for a mild sore throat prior to 
dosing in period 2. The impact of the use of these medications was assessed and they were considered to 
have no impact on the pharmacokinetic evaluations of this study. 
Study TVY-P7-885: Single Dose 2-Stage Futility Crossover Comparative BA Study of Tacrolimus 5 
mg Prolonged-Release Capsules in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers / Fasting State 
Methods 
Study design  
The study was a single-centre, randomized, single dose, laboratory-blinded, two-period, two-sequence, two-
stage, futility crossover design in healthy male and female subjects under fasting conditions to evaluate the 
comparative bioavailability between the test (Tacforius 5 mg prolonged-release capsule) and the reference 
(Advagraf 5 mb prolonged-release capsule) products. The clinical part of the study took place from 3rd of 
March 2016 to 23rd of June 2016. 
After  a  supervised  overnight  fast,  a  single  5  mg  oral  dose  of  the  assigned  formulation  was  administered  to 
the study participants in the morning with approximately 240 mL of water at ambient temperature, starting 
at  08:30,  to  one  subject  per  minute.  Fasting  continued  for  at  least  4  hours  following  drug  administration, 
after which a standardized lunch was served. The 100 included subjects received a single oral dose of 5 mg 
of the randomly assigned drug product in each period, separated by a 14-day wash-out period. 
In each study period, 24 blood samples were collected for each subject. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic 
measurements were collected (not more than 2 hours) prior to drug administration and at 0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 
1.25,  1.50,  1.75,  2.00,  2.25,  2.50,  3.00,  3.50,  4.00,  5.00,  6.00,  8.00,  10.00,  12.00,  24.00,  48.00,  72.00, 
96.00, 120.00, and 144.00 hours following drug administration. 
The analysed compound was the parent, what is in line with what is mentioned in the SmPC of the reference 
product  and  with  the  product  specific  guideline  on  tacrolimus  (EMA/CHMP/159744/2016).  The  analysed 
matrix  was  whole  blood,  what  is  in  line  with  what  is  recommended  in  the  product  specific  guideline 
(EMA/CHMP/159744/2016) and results from tacrolimus binding strongly to erythrocytes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 29/48 
 
  
  
The  sampling  period  of  144  hrs,  AUC0-144hrs  covering  more  than  80%  of  AUC0-inf  (residual  area  of  4.42  and 
4.34%  for  test  and  reference,  respectively)  and  the  sampling  scheme  (median  of  1.75  hrs  for  test  and 
reference products) are regarded as adequate in relation to the relevant PK parameters. 
Subjects  were  allowed  to  leave  the  clinical  site  after  the  48-hour  post  dose  blood  draw  and  were  asked  to 
return to the clinical site before each of the 4 remaining blood samples.  
The  wash-out  period  of  14  days  (336  hrs)  is  regarded  as  long  enough,  since  it  covers  more  than  the 
requested at least 5 elimination half-lives. Nevertheless, one sample in period 2 had a pre-dose concentration 
of  57.0 pg/mL.  But  since  this  pre-dose  concentration  was  below  5%  of  the  corresponding  Cmax,  it  was 
included in the PK and statistical analysis without adjustment, as predefined in the protocol and in line with 
the  Bioequivalence  guideline  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  Based  on  the  long  and  variable  half-life  of 
tacrolimus, this single and very low pre-dose concentration is acceptable. 
The  products  were  administered to  100  subjects in  a  2-stage  futility  design:  30  subjects  were  dosed in  the 
first group (stage 1), 70 subjects in the second group (stage 2). 
Statistical analysis was done separately for the data of the first stage, and on the combined data of the two 
stages.  The  first  analysis  was  performed  after  the  first  stage  was  completed. The  interim  analysis  was  only 
done to prematurely recognize, if the study were on the right way or if it would fail. Failure would have led to 
the termination of the study. Since it was predefined in the protocol, that BE would only be calculated based 
on  both  stages,  this  is  acceptable  method  that  does  not  need  further  adjustment  than  the  inclusion  of  the 
stage as additional statistical factor (besides treatment, period, sequence and subject), as it was done by the 
applicant.  Blinding  of  the  subjects  or  the  clinical  staff  was  not  regarded  necessary  in  a  bioequivalent  study 
comparing  PK  parameters.  Analysts  were  blinded  to  the  sequence  of  administration  of  test  and  reference 
product to the individual subjects. 
Test and reference products  
Refer to Test and reference products of the study Study TVY-P8-763. 
Population studied 
Study  population  consisted  of  100  non-  or  ex-smoking,  male  (41)  and  female  (57)  volunteers,  between  18 
and  60  years  of  age,  with  a  BMI  from  19.35  to  29.92  kg/m2  who  were  judged  healthy  based  on  a  medical 
history,  ECG,  laboratory  evaluation,  physical  examination  and  vital  signs  measurements,  willing  to  use  an 
acceptable  effective  method  of  contraception.  Among  the  patients,  91  were  White,  3  Black,  2  Asian  and  4 
Other.  A  total  of  100  subjects  were  included  in  this  study  and  after  randomization,  98  subjects  (98%) 
received  the  Test  and  99  subjects  (99%)  received  the  Reference.  Three  subjects  (3%)  discontinued  the 
study, 2 for personal reasons and 1 due to difficulties with blood collection. 
Pharmacokinetic Population 
All 97 completers were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
Originally  subject  033  (did  not  show  up  for  the  144.00-hour  blood  sample  in  period  1)  and  subject  077 
(diarrhoea  occuring  11  hours  15  min  post  dose  in  period  1)  were  included  for  the  Cmax  and  Tmax 
parameters only for period 1. The applicant provided the AUC parameters of these two subjects as well and 
showed that the results had only small influence on the total outcome. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 30/48 
 
  
  
Safety Population 
The safety population included all of the subjects who participated in the study and received at least one of 
the investigational products under study (n= 100). 
Analytical methods 
The analytical part of the study lasted from 30.03.2016 till 26.07.2016. 
4704  samples  from  100  subjects  (25  time-points  per  subject,  2  periods)  were  analysed,  the  theoretical 
amount of samples was 4800. For more detailed information about the analytical methods performed in this 
study,  please  refer  to  the  study  TVY-P8-763  above.  The  bioanalytical  method  demonstrates  acceptable 
performance  and  is  suitable  for  the  determination  of  Tacrolimus  in  K2EDTA  human  plasma  over  the 
calibration range. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
Please refer to the study TVY-P8-763 above. 
Statistical methods 
Please refer to the study TVY-P8-763 above. 
Results 
Table 5. Pharmacokinetic parameters for tacrolimus (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
Reference  
arithmetic 
<geometric> mean 
SD  
CV% 
arithmetic 
SD CV% 
<geometric> mean 
206298.9 pg*h/mL 
70350.3 
211747.3 pg*h/mL 
68589.1 
AUC0-t 
AUC0-∞  
Cmax  
Tmax* 
AUC 0-t  
<194927.3 pg*h/mL> 
216295.4 pg*h/mL 
34.1% 
74823.4 
34.6% 
32.4% 
<200696.9 pg*h/mL> 
222087.2 pg*h/mL 
74041.5 
<203992.6 pg*h/mL> 
<209843.1 pg*h/mL> 
11330.4 pg/mL 
<10408.4 pg/mL> 
1.75 (0.75-6.00) hrs 
5119.5 
45.2% 
11588.6 pg/mL 
<10968.6 pg/mL> 
1.75 (0.75-5.00) hrs 
33.3% 
3792.8 
32.7% 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t (=144) hours 
AUC 0-∞    
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
C max  
T max  
maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 31/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Statistical analysis for tacrolimus (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Test/Reference 
Confidence Intervals 
CV%* 
AUC0-t  
AUC0-∞ 
Cmax  
97.15 
97.23 
94.92 
* estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
93.45-100.99% 
93.53-101.07% 
89.14-101.7% 
16.2% 
16.2% 
26.8% 
Table 7. Summary of Blood Tacrolimus Pharmacokinetic Parameters 
TEST 
(n=97)* 
REFERENCE 
(n=97)* 
PARAMETER 
Cmax (pg/mL) 
In (Cmax) 
Tmax (hours)** 
MEAN 
C.V. (%) 
MEAN 
C.V (%) 
11330.4 
9.2504 
(45.2) 
(4.4) 
11588.6 
9.3028 
(32.7) 
(3.7) 
1.75 
(0.75-6.00) 
1.75 
(0.75-5.00) 
AUC0-t (pg.h/mL) 
206298.9 
In (AUC0-t) 
12.1804 
AUC0-∞ (pg.h/mL) 
216295.4 
In (AUC0-∞ ) 
12.2258 
Residual area (%) 
4.42 
λz (hours -1) 
0.0212 
(34.1) 
(2.8) 
(34.6) 
(2.9) 
(44.3) 
(18.3) 
Thalf (hours) 
*  Median (range) 
** n=95 for AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, Residual area, λ z, Thalf  
33.72 
(18.4) 
211747.3 
12.2096 
222087.2 
12.2541 
4.34 
0.0213 
33.61 
(32.4) 
(2.8) 
(33.3) 
(2.8) 
(45.4) 
(17.8) 
(18.0) 
Bioequivalence  has  been  appropriately  shown  between  the  5  mg  Test  formulation  and  the  5  mg  Reference 
product when administered as a single dose under fasting conditions. 
Protocol deviations 
The main reasons for blood sampling time deviations were: Difficulty with vein/catheter,  technical oversight, 
subject  is  early/late/absent  (return  visit),  and  other  reasons.  The  mentioned  reasons  and  number  of 
deviations are considered to be in a normal range for clinical bioequivalence studies done with 100 subjects 
(in a cross-over design).The protocol deviations reported for the subjects included in the analysis are judged 
to have no significant impact on the bioequivalence assessment or on subject’s safety. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 32/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety data 
A total of 100 subjects were included in this study. After randomization, 98 subjects (98%) received the Test 
(Tacrolimus) and 99 subjects (99%) received the reference (Advagraf). All subjects who received at least one 
of  the  investigational  products  (n=  100)  were  included  in  the  safety  population.  Safety  was  evaluated 
through  assessment  of  adverse  events,  standard  laboratory  evaluations,  and  vital  signs,  ECG  findings, 
physical  examination  findings,  and  concomitant  medication  usage.  A  tuberculin  blood  or  skin  test  was  also 
performed (when required). 
Adverse events 
All  AEs  occurring  after  the  initiation  of  the  treatment  were  referred  to  as  TEAEs.  A  total  of  68  TEAEs  were 
reported  by  the  33  (33%)  of  the  100  subjects  who  participated  in  this  study.  Of  these  TEAEs,  34  occurred 
following the administration of each the Test and the Reference. 
The  most  frequently  reported  TEAE  in  this  study  was  headache,  which  was  experienced  by  7  subjects 
following the administration of each the Test and the Reference.  
Other  TEAEs  were  reported  with  a  lower  frequency  (≤ 3%).  Of  these,  the  most  common  TEAEs  were 
abdominal distension, abdominal pain, vessel puncture site pain, and nausea. 
The TEAEs experienced during the study were deemed mild (58 TEAEs, 85%) and moderate (10 TEAEs, 15%) 
in intensity. None of the subjects experienced a severe TEAE during the study. 
No serious adverse events (SAE) and no deaths were reported for any of the subjects enrolled in this study. 
No subject was withdrawn by the investigator for safety reasons. 
Clinical laboratory evaluation: 
The main abnormal on-study laboratory values were minimal deviations of haematology values like Hkt, Hb, 
Neutrophils  and  platelets,  as  well  as  traces  of  blood  and  leukocytes  in  the  urine.  The  judgements  of  “not 
clinically significant” are understandable from a clinician’s point of view (females being included). 
One  subject  had  positive serum  beta  HCG  qualitative  tests  prior to  dosing  of period  2  and  post  study  visits 
that were considered not clinically significant in the light of the quantitative beta HCG results (6.2 IU/L and 
6.3 IU/L, respectively) and the subject being in menopausal state (8 years without menses according to the 
CRF). Menopausal beta HCG values are normally slightly higher (<7 IU/L) than pre menopause. 
All other female subjects had negative pregnancy tests during the study. 
All serology results were negative, all urine/breath drug screen results were negative and all tuberculin test 
results at screening were negative. 
Vital signs, ECGs, physical findings 
Generally, the subjects showed vital signs within normal range in both treatment groups. Slight tachycardia, 
and slightly elevated blood pressure values were presented and regarded as NCS what can be accepted from 
a  clinician’s  point  of  view.  Results  from  the  screening  ECG  assessments  were  considered  normal  or  were 
judged  normal  variant  –  not  clinically  significant  for  subjects  enrolled  in  this  study.  Physical  examination 
findings  were  generally  judged  to  be  normal  or  without  any  changes,  only  in  one  subject,  there  was  a 
clinically significant finding at the post study physical examination (i.e., gingival bleeding), that was resolving 
at  the  end  of  the  study.  Regarding  the  presented  values,  the  judgements  are  understandable  from  a 
clinician’s point of view. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 33/48 
 
  
  
Concomitant Medications 
Four  subjects  (4%)  received  concomitant  medication  during  this  study.  Subject  033  applied  2  eye  drops  of 
Polysporin (polymyxin B [sulfate] /gramicidin) 7 times off site and 1 eye drop 3 times for mild conjunctivitis 
of  the  left  eye,  experienced  following  the  administration  of  the  reference  in  period  2.  Subject  039  received 
Gravol  (dimenhydrinate)  once  on-site  for  mild  nausea  (intermittent)  and  moderate  vomiting,  experienced 
following the administration of the Reference in period 2. Subject 070 received Tylenol (acetaminophen) once 
on-site  for  a  moderate  headache,  experienced  following  the  administration  of  the  Test  in  period  2.  Subject 
085  received  acetaminophen  once  off-site  for  a  mild  headache,  experienced  following  the  administration  of 
the  Test in  period 1.The  impact  of the  use  of  these  medications  was  assessed  and  they  were  considered  to 
have no impact on the pharmacokinetic evaluations of this study. 
Study 2016-4130: A Multiple-Dose, Comparative Bioavailability Study of Two Formulations of 
Tacrolimus 5 mg Prolonged Release Capsules under Fasting Conditions 
Methods 
Study design  
The  study  was  an  open-label,  multiple-dose,  randomised,  two-period,  two-treatment,  two-sequence, 
crossover  comparative  bioavailability  study,  comparing  two  formulations  of  tacrolimus  5  mg  prolonged 
release capsules (Tacforius 5 mg prolonged-release capsule (test) and Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release hard 
capsule (reference)) in healthy male subjects under fasting conditions at steady state. The clinical part of the 
study took place from 31st of August 2016- 10th of October 2016 
As tacrolimus is a prolonged release formulation with a long reported elimination half-life, concentrations may 
accumulate  following  repeated  drug  administration.  As  such,  this  study  sought  to  assess  the  comparative 
bioavailability between a test and reference product under multiple dose, steady state conditions.  
Based on the half-life of tacrolimus, it was expected that steady state would be attained by day 8. 
Samples for the estimation of  PK parameters were  collected on Day 10,  for  which a sampling schedule was 
designed to ensure that the AUCtau, Cmax,ss, and Ctrough parameters were adequately assessed at steady state 
from collected whole blood.  
By implementing a crossover design, the estimated PK parameters for tacrolimus were compared within the 
same subject.  
Subjects enrolled in this study were dosed in 3 groups on the following dates: 
• Group 1 (Subjects 01-30) 
o Period 1: August 31, 2016; 
o Period 2: September 19, 2016. 
• Group 2 (Subjects 31-60) 
o Period 1: September 07, 2016; 
o Period 2: September 26, 2016. 
• Group 3 (Subjects 61-80) 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 34/48 
 
  
  
o Period 1: September 11, 2016; 
o Period 2: September 30, 2016. 
Subjects were confined in-house from at least 10 hours prior to drug administration on Day 1 until at least 24 
hours post-dose on Day 10 in each period. 
A  single  5  mg  dose  (one  capsule)  of  the  assigned  drug  product  was  administered  according  to  the 
randomization  scheme  with  8  oz  (±0.2  oz)  of  room  temperature  potable  water  from  the  morning  of  day  1 
until the morning of day 10 (10 administrations in each period). 
Subjects fasted from at least 10 hours prior to each drug administration until at least 4 hours post-dose. 
In each period, 26 samples were collected as follows: 
• On Days 1, 8, and 9: prior to dosing (0-hour); 
• On Day 10: prior to dosing (0-hour) and at 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.25, 1.5, 1.75, 2, 2.25, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 
10, 12, 14, 16, 20, and 24 hours post-dose. 
The  pre-dose  sample  on  Day  1  was  collected  within  60  minutes  of  dosing.  Pre-dose  samples  on  Days  8,  9, 
and 10 were collected within 5 minutes of drug administration. 
The  chosen  time  points  are  regarded  as  adequate,  since  with  an  average  Tmax  (in  fasting  state)  around  2 
hours, this time was well covered, the 3 necessary time points for steady state were given and the 24 hour 
period on day 10 was in line with the recommended once daily administration (in the morning). 
In  line  with  the  product  specific  EMA  guideline  for  tacrolimus  (EMA/CHMP/159744/2016),  the  analysed 
compound was tacrolimus (parent) and the analysed matrix was whole blood. 
The  washout  period  between  drug  administrations  for  each  subject  was  10  days  between  the  last  drug 
administration on Day 10 of Period 1 and the first drug administration on Day 1 of Period 2. The half-life of 
tacrolimus  is  long  and  variable.  In  healthy  subjects,  the  mean  half-life  in  whole  blood,  according  to  the 
originator’s  SmPC, 
is  approximately  43  hours.  Referring 
to 
the  modified 
release  guideline 
(EMA/CPMP/EWP/280/96  Corr1),  even  a  possible  direct  switch  from  test  to  reference  product  and  if  steady 
state build up period is long enough, the 10 days of washout are acceptable. 
This was an open-label study, but the samples that were shipped to the analytical laboratory did not contain 
treatment information on the sample label. Since blinding of the subjects or the clinical staff is not regarded 
necessary in a BE-study comparing PK parameters, the open-label conduct is acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 35/48 
 
  
  
Test and reference products  
Product 
Characteristics 
Test 
Product 
Preference 
Product 
Name 
Tacrolimus 5 mg Prolonged-
Advagraf 5 mg Prolonged-Release 
Release Capsules 
Hard Capsules 
Strength 
Dosage form 
5 mg 
Capsules 
5 mg 
Capsules 
Tacrolimus 5 mg manufactured at the proposed commercial manufacturing site has been compared to 
Advagraf (Tacrolimus) 5 mg manufactured by Astellas Ireland Co. The applicant also confirmed that the unit 
formula of the 5 mg biobatch is identical to the proposed commercial formulation. 
Population studied 
Study population consisted of 80 healthy, non-smoking, male volunteers, from 19 to 45 years of age, with a 
body mass index (BMI) between 18.9 and 29.9 kg/m2. Among the patients, 60 were Black, 18 White and 2 
other.  In  principle,  females  using  appropriate  contraceptive  methods  could  also  have  been  included  in  this 
multiple  dose  study.  But  since  the  inclusion  of  both  sexes  is  no  defined  prerequisite  for  BE-studies,  it  is 
deemed acceptable, that only males were included in this study.  
A  total  of  80  subjects  were  included  in  this  study  and,  after  randomisation,  78  subjects  received  the  test 
product and 71 subjects received the reference product. Five subjects were dismissed due to adverse events, 
four for non-compliance, three had out of range laboratory results at period 2 check-in and two withdrew for 
personal  reasons.  Hence,  66  subjects  (24  in  Group  1,  25  in  Group  2,  and  17  in  Group  3)  completed  the 
study. 
One subject completed both periods of the study; however, the subject’s values were excluded from the PK 
analysis  due  to  an  AE  (diarrhoea  within  24  hours  of  Day  10  drug  administration,  as  per  protocol-specified 
criteria for removal) which was reported during post-clinical procedures. 
PK population 
Hence, 65 subjects were included in the PK and statistical data analyses. 
Safety Population 
The safety population included all of the subjects (80) who entered in the study. 
Analytical methods 
The analytical part of the study lasted from 06.10.2016 till 24.10.2016. The study samples were obtained 
stored at a nominal temperature of -25ºC. A total of 7416 samples from 80 subjects (26 time-points per 
subject, 2 periods, 2 treatments) were analysed, the theoretical amount of samples was 8320. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 36/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
As regards Tacrolimus (analyte), internal standard was Tacrolimus 13CD3; samples were extracted from a 
0.10 mL aliquot of K2EDTA human whole blood by liquid-liquid extraction. The extracted samples were 
injected into a liquid chromatograph. The detection method used was tandem mass spectrometry detector. 
Quantitation is determined by peak area ratio method. A weighted (1/c2) linear regression is performed to 
determine the concentration of the analyte. The validated calibration range for the assay of Tacrolimus is 
from 0.2 ng/mL to 50.00 ng/mL. 
The  analytical  method  for  the  determination  of  Tacrolimus  in  human  whole  blood  as  well  as  respective 
validations were described adequately; the validations were performed according to the requirements of the 
EMA  “Guideline  on  bioanalytical  method  validation”  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009  Rev.  1  Corr  2*). 
Acceptance criteria are in a plausible range and were fulfilled. 
The  bioanalytical  method  demonstrated  acceptable  performance  and  was  suitable  for  the  determination  of 
Tacrolimus in K2EDTA human whole blood over the calibration range. 
There were some concerns that the applicant clarified during the evaluation period. First one regarding the 
amount of the analysed samples and the second one due to a shoulder developed in some chromatograms 
for the sample and the ISTD.  
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The  following  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  estimated  for  whole  blood  tacrolimus  using  a  non-
compartmental approach in SAS® (version 9.3): 
AUCtau:  
The area under the analyte concentration versus time curve over one dosing interval (tau = 
24 hours) as calculated by the linear trapezoidal method. 
Cmax,ss:  
Ctrough  
Cpd:  
Maximum measured analyte concentration over one dosing interval at steady state. 
Measured concentration at the end of the dosing interval at steady state. 
Pre-dose (morning) measured analyte concentrations on Days 8, 9, and 10. 
Fluctuation:   Degree  of  fluctuation  of  the  analyte  concentration  levels  over  one  dosing  interval: 
100*(Cmax,ss − Ctrough)/(AUCtau/tau). 
Swing:  
Degree of change of the analyte concentration levels over one dosing interval: 100*(Cmax,ss 
− Ctrough)/Ctrough. 
Cavg:  
The average concentration: AUCtau/tau. 
Tmax,ss:   
Time of the maximum measured analyte concentration over one dosing interval. 
Whole  blood  samples  were  assayed  for  tacrolimus.  Based  on  these  concentration  levels,  the  PK  parameters 
AUCtau, Cmax,ss, Ctrough, Cavg, Cpd, and Tmax,ss were estimated in order to characterize the extent and 
rate of absorption of the study drugs at steady state. 
According to the modified release guideline (EMA/CPMP/EWP/280/96 Corr1), AUC(0-τau)ss, Cmax,ss, Cτau,ss 
are  the  parameters  to  be  evaluated  referring  to  bioequivalence  of  prolonged  release  products  with 
accumulation  for multiple dose studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 37/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Descriptive  statistics  for  the  PK  parameters  of  tacrolimus  were  calculated.  Descriptive  statistics  include 
number of observations, arithmetic mean, standard deviation, geometric mean (where applicable), coefficient 
of variation (CV), median, minimum, and maximum. 
Statistical analysis was performed on quality assured data from subjects in the statistical dataset. The PROC 
GLM procedure from SAS® (version 9.3) was used. 
Three  consecutive  pre-dose  concentrations  (Cpd)  on  Days  8,  9  and  10,  were  analysed  to  assess  the 
achievement of steady state. Statistical analysis revealed that both the day (p=0.835) and day-by-treatment 
(p=0.886) effects were not statistically significant, indicating that steady state levels were reached. 
Analysis  of  Variance  was  performed  on  log-transformed  AUCtau,  Cmax,ss,  and  Ctrough.  The  significance  of 
the  sequence,  period,  treatment,  and  subject  (sequence)  effects  was  tested.  Because  this  study  was 
conducted in groups, the group factor was also considered in the statistical model. 
Using  the  same  statistical  model,  the  least-squares-means,  the  differences  between  the  treatments  least-
squares-means,  and  the  corresponding  standard  errors  of  these  differences  were  estimated  for  log-
transformed AUCtau, Cmax,ss, and Ctrough parameters. 
Based on these statistics, the ratios of the geometric means for treatments and the corresponding 90% CIs 
were calculated. 
The 90% CIs of the relative mean whole blood tacrolimus AUCtau of the test to reference products should be 
between 90.00 and 111.11%.  
According to the Applicant, the 90% CIs of the relative mean whole blood tacrolimus Cmax,ss and Ctrough of 
the test to reference products should be between 80.00 and 125.00%.  
The  criteria  for evaluation  proposed  by  the  applicant  are  not  fully in  line  with  the  respective  EMA  guidance, 
since  the  exemption  for  the  90%CI  of  Cmax  in  the  normal  BE  range  of  80.00-125.00%  is  only  meant  for 
single dose studies with tacrolimus.  
Although peak whole blood levels do not seem to be critical for either safety or efficacy, narrowing of Cmax 
(and Ctrough) results (respective 90% CIs should lie between 90.00 and 111.11%) would be expected from 
a clinical point of view for the multiple dose study,  since tacrolimus is a narrow therapeutic index drug and 
concentration differences at steady state are not as high as after a single dose. 
But since the respective PK results were within the narrow acceptance range (Cmax [93.81-102.06], Ctrough 
(=Ctau,ss) [95.89-103.57]) this was acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 38/48 
 
  
  
Results 
Table 8. Pharmacokinetic parameters for tacrolimus (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
AUC0-tau,ss  
Cmax,ss 
Ctau,ss  
Test  
Reference  
arithmetic 
<geometric> mean 
188.92 ng*h/mL 
<177.24 ng*h/mL> 
14.14 ng/mL 
<13.14 ng/mL> 
5.70 ng/mL 
SD  
CV% 
70.52 
37.33% 
5.67 
40.08% 
2.32 
40.75% 
arithmetic 
<geometric> mean 
191.66 ng*h/mL 
<178.96 ng*h/mL> 
14.30 ng/mL 
<13.40 ng/mL> 
5.70 ng/mL 
SD  
CV% 
75.75 
39.53% 
5.49 
38.41% 
2.39 
41.87% 
<5.28 ng/mL> 
<5.25 ng/mL> 
AUC 0-tau,ss 
area under the analyte concentration versus time curve over one dosing interval (tau = 24 hours) 
C max,ss  
C tau,ss  
maximum measured analyte concentration over one dosing interval. (at steady state) 
measured concentration at the end of the dosing interval  
Table 9. Statistical analysis for tacrolimus (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Test/Reference 
90% Confidence 
Intervals 
CV%* 
AUC(0-tau) 
Cmax,ss  
Ctau,ss 
98.56 
97.85 
99.65 
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
95.86-101.33% 
93.81-102.06 
95.89-103.57 
9% 
14% 
13% 
Bioequivalence could been shown between the 5 mg Test formulation and the 5 mg Reference product when 
administered as multiple dose under fasting conditions. 
Protocol deviations 
Slight deviations of blood sampling time points were not referred to as deviations in this study. 
There were 4 protocol deviations in this study, which are depicted in the following table: 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 39/48 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. Protocol deviations  
Since subject 019 subject did not act as agreed upon in the restriction information provided to and signed by 
the  subjects  included,  dismissal  is  regarded  as  justified.  Additional  subjects  were  not  enrolled;  hence  the 
second issue can be ignored. Additional measurement of CO2 levels does not cause any harm to neither the 
subjects  nor  the  study,  and  is  thus  regarded  as  unproblematic.  Vital  signs  measured  2  and  4  minutes  too 
early  are  not  at  all  regarded  to  affect  the  study  outcome  or  to  pose  risks  to the  included  subjects,  and  are 
thus regarded as unproblematic. 
Safety data 
A  total  of  80  subjects  were  included  in  the  study.  After  randomization,  78  subjects  received  the  Test 
(Tacforius) and 71 subjects received the Reference (Advagraf). All subjects who received at least one of the 
investigational products (n= 80) were included in the safety population. 
An  assessment  of  safety  was  based  primarily  on  the  frequency  and  severity  of  AEs,  but  also  standard 
laboratory evaluations, vital signs, ECG findings, physical examination findings, and concomitant medication 
usage were evaluated. 
Adverse events 
Overall,  there  were  97  AEs  involving  44  subjects  (55.0%  of  subjects  dosed),  with  thirty-one  (31)  subjects 
(39.7%) reporting a total of 60 AEs after administration of Treatment A and 23 subjects (32.4%) reporting a 
total  of  37  AEs  after  administration  of  Treatment  B.  Of  the  97  reported  AEs,  75  AEs  affecting  40  subjects 
were  seen  as  reasonably  related  to  the  study  drugs  by  the  relevant  investigators.  Diarrhoea  was  the  most 
prevalent AE in this study, with 23 occurrences affecting 16 subjects (20.0%). All reported diarrhoea events 
were mild in severity and deemed reasonably related to the study drugs. Six subjects experienced AEs which 
led  to  their  discontinuation  from  the  study,  two  of  which  were  diarrhoeal  events  that  occurred  within  the 
protocol-specified time interval for dismissal. The AEs resolved, were mild in severity, and were judged not to 
have impacted the subjects’ safety. No deaths, SAEs, or other significant AEs occurred during the study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 40/48 
 
  
  
 
Clinical laboratory evaluation: 
Screening 
Clinical laboratory tests for haematology, biochemistry, urinalysis, and serology were conducted at screening. 
All screening clinical laboratory tests results, including those of repeats, were either within normal range or 
not clinically significant (NCS) for all subjects prior to study entry. Screening tests for urine cotinine and urine 
drugs of abuse were conducted and all results were negative. 
Check-In 
Check-in  tests  for  urine  cotinine,  breath  alcohol,  and  urine  drugs  of  abuse  were  conducted  in  each  period. 
Two  subjects  (subjects  037  and  050)  were  dismissed  from  the  study  at  Period  2  check-in  due  to  having  a 
positive test for urine cotinine. All other check-in tests for urine cotinine, breath alcohol, and urine drugs of 
abuse were negative.  
In addition, clinical laboratory tests for CBC (complete blood count), liver function, metabolic panel (including 
renal  function,  calcium,  magnesium,  and  potassium)  were  conducted  for  safety  at  Period  2  check-in.  Three 
subjects (subjects 018, 022, and 030) were dismissed from the study due to health concerns as their check-
in laboratory results (increase in creatinine, WBC, absolute neutrophil count and AST according to the CRFs) 
were out of range.  
End of Study 
Clinical laboratory tests for haematology, biochemistry, and urinalysis were conducted at the end of the study 
or after termination of a subject from the study. Six (6) clinically significant laboratory measurements were 
recorded  as  drug-related  AEs,  5  of  which  resolved  upon  repeated  measurement.  One  AE  (blood  bilirubin 
increased, Subject 024) remained unresolved as the subject failed to complete post-clinical laboratory repeat 
tests.  All  other  post-study  clinical  laboratory  tests  results,  including  those  of  repeats,  were  either  within 
normal range or not clinically significant (NCS). 
Vital Signs, Physical Findings and Other Observations Related to Safety 
Of the 97 reported AEs, 11 were related to vital signs. 
Additionally, one subject reported dizziness approximately 1 hour after Day 6 dosing in Period 1 (Treatment 
B).  
Vital signs were re-measured and results were within normal range. 
There  were  4  physical  findings  in  this  study:  an  arthropod  bite,  a  vessel  puncture  site  and  rash,  the  latter 
reported for two subjects. All physical findings were unrelated to the administration of the study drugs. 
There were no other significant findings related to vital signs, ECGs or physical examinations in this study. 
Concomitant drug Therapy 
There were no concomitant medications used during this study. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented data obtained from the bioequivalence studies conducted by the applicant in support 
of this marketing authorisation application, Tacforius is considered bioequivalent with Advagraf. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 41/48 
 
  
  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available for Tacforius. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any 
country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To support this generic marketing authorisation application for Tacforius, three BE-studies have been 
conducted (single dose fed, single dose fasting and multiple dose fasting). The bioequivalence between the 
Tacforius 5 mg prolonged-release capsules and the reference product, Advagraf 5 mg prolonged-release 
capsules was demonstrated. 
These 3 studies fulfilled the requests of the relevant EMA guideline on the pharmacokinetic and clinical 
evaluation of modified release dosage forms (EMA/CPMP/EWP/280/96 Corr1) for prolonged release products 
with accumulation. 
While applicable EMA guidance justifies the normal 80.00-125.00% acceptance range for the 90% CIs of 
Cmax for the single dose studies, this acceptance range for the 90% CIs of Cmax,ss and Ctau,ss is regarded 
as too wide for the multiple dose study. But since the GMRs of Cmax and Ctau,ss were clearly within the 
90.00-111.11% acceptance interval, this was not an issue and bioequivalence was concluded for all 3 
studies. 
In vitro dissolution tests complementary to the BE studies were provided. The results do not perfectly fulfil 
the expectations of the BE-GL, since without high doses of surfactant, sink conditions were not reached with 
these prolonged-release capsules, making this method not very representative for in-vivo conditions. 
Nevertheless and according to the guideline the in vivo studies prevail in order to demonstrate BE. Therefore, 
BE was clearly demonstrated, hence, finally no great emphasis was put on these dissolution results from a 
clinical point of view. 
To accept the BE studies done with the highest strength only, pharmacokinetic linearity over the whole dose 
range  of  Tacforius  prolonged  release  capsule  strengths  should  be  shown  and  the  CHMP  requested  further 
information in support of this assumed linearity. This was resolved accordingly with published literature and 
in-house data discussing in sufficient detail the extrapolation of the available pharmacokinetic data of various 
doses  of  Astagraf  XL/Advagraf  and  showing  the  linkage  between  Prograf  and  Advagraf  formulations.  
Therefore the biowaiver for the 3 lower strengths (0.5 mg, 1 mg and 3 mg) was accepted by the CHMP. 
The safety profile of Tacforius is similar with that of the Reference medicinal product and hence, there is no 
need for additional risk minimisation measures. Tacforius is subject to restricted medicinal prescription, in the 
same way as the reference medicinal product.  
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The CHMP considered that there were no objections for the approval of Tacforius 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 3 mg, 5 mg 
prolonged-release hard capsules from a clinical point of view. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 42/48 
 
  
  
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
• Medication errors 
• Hypertension 
• Torsade de Pointes 
• Cardiac arrhythmias 
• Prolonged QT interval 
• Ventricular hypertrophy 
• Cardiomyopathies 
• Neurological and visual disorders 
• Diabetogenicity 
• Electrolyte changes 
• Galactose intolerance 
• Hepatic dysfunction 
• Renal dysfunction 
• Blood cell count changes 
• Coagulopathies 
• Use during pregnancy and lactation 
• GI perforation 
• Diarrhoea 
• Neoplasms 
• Serious infections and reactivation of pre-existing infections 
• Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) 
Important potential risk 
• Interaction with MMF 
Missing information 
• None 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
There are no studies in the Pharmacovigilance Plan. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 43/48 
 
  
  
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
None 
IMPORTANT IDENTIFIED RISKS 
Medication errors 
Labelling: Indication of correct use in SmPC 
section 4.1. 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC states that this medicinal 
product should only be prescribed, and changes in 
immunosuppressive therapy initiated, by physicians 
experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and the 
management of transplant patients. 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC: 
Medication errors, including inadvertent, 
unintentional or unsupervised substitution of 
immediate- or prolonged-release tacrolimus 
formulations, have been observed. This has led to 
serious adverse reactions, including graft rejection, 
or other adverse reactions which could be a 
consequence of either under- or over- exposure to 
tacrolimus. Patients should be maintained on a 
single formulation of tacrolimus with the 
corresponding daily dosing regimen; alterations in 
formulation or regimen should only take place 
under the close supervision of a transplant 
specialist. 
Medication errors are described in section 4.8 of 
the SmPC. 
Prescription only medicine. 
The terms ‘prolonged-release’ and ‘once daily’ are 
prominent on the proposed blister, aluminium wrap 
and outer carton. 
Hypertension 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
sections 4.4 and 4.8.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Torsades de 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
Pointes 
sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.3. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Cardiac 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
arrhythmias 
sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.3. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Prolonged QT 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
interval 
sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.3. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Ventricular 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
hypertrophy 
sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.3. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Cardiomyopathies 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.3. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 44/48 
 
  
  
Neurological and 
Labelling: Warning in sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.7, and 
None 
visual disorders 
5.3 of the SmPC. 
Listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Diabetogenicity 
Labelling: Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
None 
Listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Electrolyte 
changes 
Galactose 
intolerance 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
section 4.4. 
Prescription only medicine 
None 
Hepatic 
Labelling: Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
None 
dysfunction 
Listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Renal dysfunction 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.3. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Blood cell count 
Labelling: Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
None 
changes 
Listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Coagulopathies 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Use during 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
pregnancy and 
sections 4.6 and 5.3. 
lactation 
Prescription only medicine. 
GI perforation 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Diarrhoea 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
Neoplasms 
sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
None 
Prescription only medicine. 
Serious infections 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
and reactivation 
sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
of pre-existing 
Prescription only medicine. 
infections 
Pure red cell 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
aplasia (PRCA) 
sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
Prescription only medicine. 
IMPORTANT POTENTIAL RISK 
Interaction with 
Labelling: Risk has been highlighted in the SmPC in 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 45/48 
 
  
  
MMF 
section 5.1. 
Prescription only medicine. 
MISSING INFORMATION 
None 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of tacrolimus prolonged-release hard capsules. The reference 
product Advagraf is indicated for the following indications: 
- Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult kidney or liver allograft recipients. 
- Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal products in 
adult patients. 
No non-clinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
non-clinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient.  
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 46/48 
 
  
  
 
on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The three bioequivalence studies hereafter form the pivotal basis: 
a)  Study TVY-P8-763: Single Dose 2-Stage Futility Crossover Comparative BA Study of Tacrolimus 5 mg 
Prolonged-Release Capsules in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers / Fed State 
b)  Study TVY-P7-885: Study Title: Single Dose 2-Stage Futility Crossover Comparative BA Study of 
Tacrolimus 5 mg Prolonged-Release Capsules in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers / Fasting State 
c)  Study 2016-4130: Study Title: A Multiple-Dose, Comparative Bioavailability Study of Two 
Formulations of Tacrolimus 5 mg Prolonged Release Capsules under Fasting Conditions 
The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line 
with the EU requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling times as well as wash-out period 
were adequate. The analytical method was sufficiently validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods 
applied were adequate. 
The  test  formulation  of  Tacforius  prolonged-release  hard  capsule  met  the  protocol-defined  criteria  for 
bioequivalence when compared with the Advagraf prolonged release capsule. While applicable EMA guidance 
justifies the normal 80.00-125.00% acceptance range for the 90% CIs of Cmax for the single dose studies, 
this  acceptance  range  for  the  90%  CIs  of  Cmax,ss  and  Ctau,ss  was  regarded  as  too  wide  for  the  multiple 
dose  study.  However,  since  the  GMRs  of  Cmax  and  Ctau,ss  were  clearly  within  the  90.00-111.11% 
acceptance interval, this was accepted and bioequivalence was demonstrated for all 3 studies. 
In order to accept the biowaiver, PK dose-linearity should be shown in the whole dose range. Thus, the CHMP 
requested  the  applicant  to  provide  additional  information  supporting  the  dose  linearity  for  the  lowest 
strength. This issue was resolved satisfactorily with published literature and in-house data, providing enough 
information  to  expect  linear  pharmacokinetics  over  the  whole  dose  range  (0.5  mg  –  10  mg)  of  tacrolimus. 
Therefore, the biowaiver for the 3 lower strengths (0.5 mg, 1 mg and 3 mg) was accepted by the CHMP. 
A benefit-risk balance comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Tacforius is favourable in the following indication: 
- Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult kidney or liver allograft recipients. 
- Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal products in 
adult patients. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 47/48 
 
  
  
 
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/829470/2017 
Page 48/48 
 
  
  
