EMA/693389/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004435 
EPAR summary for the public 
Tacforius 
tacrolimus 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Tacforius. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Tacforius. 
For practical information about using Tacforius, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Tacforius and what is it used for? 
Tacforius is used for the long-term treatment of adult patients who have had a kidney or liver 
transplant, to prevent rejection (when the immune system attacks the transplanted organ). Tacforius 
can also be used to treat organ rejection in adult patients when other immunosuppressive medicines 
(medicines that reduce the activity of the immune system) are not effective. 
Tacforius contains the active substance tacrolimus and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Tacforius contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Advagraf. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Tacforius used? 
Tacforius is available as prolonged-release capsules containing tacrolimus. The prolonged-release 
capsules allow tacrolimus to be released slowly from the capsule over several hours so that it needs to 
be taken only once a day. 
Doses of Tacforius are calculated on the basis of the patient’s weight and the type of transplant the 
patient has had. Starting doses are between 0.1 and 0.3 mg per kg bodyweight daily. The doses are 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
then adjusted according to the patient’s response and the medicine’s blood levels. Tacforius should be 
taken once daily with water, on an empty stomach. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
Tacforius can only be obtained with a prescription. Only doctors experienced in immunosuppressive 
medicines and in the management of transplant patients should prescribe it and make changes to 
immunosuppressive treatment. 
How does Tacforius work? 
Tacrolimus, the active substance in Tacforius, is an immunosuppressive medicine. Tacrolimus reduces 
the activity of cells in the immune system, called T-cells, that are primarily involved in attacking the 
transplanted organ (organ rejection). 
How has Tacforius been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Advagraf, and do not need to be repeated for Tacforius.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Tacforius. The company also 
carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are therefore 
expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Tacforius? 
Because Tacforius is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits and 
risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Tacforius approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Tacforius has 
been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Advagraf. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Advagraf, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Agency recommended 
that Tacforius be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tacforius? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tacforius have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.   
Other information about Tacforius 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Tacforius on 8 December 2017. 
The full EPAR for Tacforius can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Tacforius, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
Tacforius  
EMA/693389/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 12-2017. 
Tacforius  
EMA/693389/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
