9 January 2015 
EMA/18660/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Tachosil 
(Human fibrinogen / Human thrombin) 
EMEA/H/C/000505/P46 039 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Invented name of the medicinal product:  TachoSil 
INN (or common name) of the active 
substance(s):  
MAH: 
Currently approved Indication(s) 
(Human fibrinogen / Human thrombin) 
Takeda Austria GmbH 
TachoSil is indicated in adults for supportive treatment 
in surgery for improvement of haemostasis, to 
promote tissue sealing, and for suture support in 
vascular surgery where standard techniques are 
insufficient. 
Local haemostatics, ATC code: B02BC30 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Pharmaceutical form(s) and strength(s):  Medicated sponge 
Rapporteur’s contact person: 
Package with 1 sponge of 9.5 cm x 4.8 cm 
Package with 2 sponges of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
Package with 1 sponge of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
Package with 5 sponges of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
Name  Maren Hammann 
Tel: 
Email:  Maren.Hammann@pei.de 
 ++49 6103 77 2550 
Name of the Assessor: 
Name  Juliane Bitsch 
Email:  Juliane.Bitsch@pei.de 
Product PTL: 
Name:  Kyriaki Tzogani 
Email:   Kyriaki.Tzogani@ema.europa.eu 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 2/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 27 February 2014, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study(ies) for TachoSil, in accordance 
with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
Clinical Trial report of study interventional study TC-2402-040-SP: 
A randomized, open label, parallel-group, multi-center trial to compare the efficacy and safety of 
TachoSil® versus Surgicel® Original for the secondary treatment of local bleeding in adult and 
pediatric patients undergoing hepatic resection surgery. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The clinical trial report was submitted by the MAH as a single application. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
TachoSil is a sterile ready-to-use absorbable patch for intraoperative topical application. It consists of 
an equine collagen patch coated with the fibrin glue components: human fibrinogen and human 
thrombin. The active side is coloured yellow with riboflavin. The product was manufactured by Takeda 
according to GMP and local national regulations. The patch size was 9.5 cm × 4.8 cm × 0.5 cm (3.7 in 
× 1.9 in × 0.2 in). 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Advances in surgical technique have reduced the occurrence of postoperative complications following 
liver resection, but the management of the raw surface after parenchymal transection may still cause 
local complications such as bleeding, bile leakage or liver necrosis (Holt et al 2000, Imamura et al 
2003). The tendency of the liver to bleed diffusely during surgery is related to its extensive 
vascularization and the fact that the hepatic sinusoidal structure is not capable of smooth muscle 
contraction to secure vasoconstriction (Chapman et al 2000). Both morbidity and mortality after liver 
resection is closely related to intraoperative blood loss. Therefore, the intraoperative control of 
haemorrhage from the parenchymal resection wound of the liver is still a challenge for the treating 
surgeon. 
TachoSil® is a ready-to-use degradable surgical patch developed for topical use to support 
intraoperative haemostasis and tissue sealing. The patch consists of a dry foamed collagen carrier of 
equine origin, coated with human fibrinogen and human thrombin. This fixed combination is intended 
to be applied directly to the wound surface. TachoSil® was approved by the European Commission in 
2004. Later applications for variation to the marketing authorization led to the current European 
indication issued in 2009 for supportive treatment in surgery for improvement of haemostasis, to 
promote tissue sealing, and for suture support in vascular surgery where standard techniques are 
insufficient. TachoSil® is not indicated for treatment of children <18 years. 
Since the approval of TachoSil® in the EU, an estimated number of 2,940,000 patients have been 
exposed to TachoSil® until 08 June 2012 under the assumption of an average use of 1 patch for each 
surgical procedure. In the same period, a total of 180 spontaneously reported adverse drug reactions 
have been reported in 121 patients. A total of 144 adverse drug reactions were considered to be 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 3/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
serious for 95 patients and 36 were non-serious in 26 patients. A total of 133 of the 145 serious 
adverse drug reactions were unlisted. 
Paediatric experience 
In the European Union (EU), one clinical trial on the use of TachoSil® in 16 children undergoing liver 
resection had been conducted already. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Clinical study TC-2402-040-SP: 
“A randomized, open label, parallel-group, multi-center trial to compare the efficacy and safety of 
TachoSil® versus Surgicel® Original for the secondary treatment of local bleeding in adult and 
pediatric patients undergoing hepatic resection surgery.” 
Description 
The trial was designed to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of TachoSil® versus Surgicel® 
Original, a standard US-licensed haemostatic agent consisting of oxidised regenerated cellulose, in 
adult and paediatric patients. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The primary objective was to show that TachoSil® was superior to Surgicel® Original as secondary 
haemostatic treatment after hepatic resection surgery and primary haemostatic treatment in adult 
patients. 
Secondary objectives were to evaluate the safety of TachoSil® as secondary haemostatic treatment in 
hepatic resection surgery and to explore the efficacy and safety of TachoSil® as secondary 
haemostatic treatment in hepatic resection surgery in paediatric patients. 
Study design 
The study was conducted as a randomised, open-label, controlled, multi-centre trial in adult and 
paediatric patients. 
Randomisation to TachoSil® or Surgicel® Original was conducted during surgery, after completion of 
primary haemostatic treatment. 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 4/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 depicts trial design according to the trial timeline. 
Study population /Sample size 
224 patients aged 17 years or older were randomly assigned to trial treatment, 114 patients were 
allocated to TachoSil® and 110 patients to Surgicel® Original. 
Furthermore, 29 paediatric patients aged until 16 years (inclusive) were enrolled. Of these, 17 were 
randomly assigned to treatment (8 to TachoSil® and 9 to Surgicel®), whereas 12 were enrolled in the 
context of an extension trial and exclusively treated with TachoSil®, so that in total 20 paediatric 
patients were treated with TachoSil®. 
Assessor’s comment: 
Within this clinical study, a paediatric part was conducted and analysed separately. 
As laid down in Regulation (EC) No. 1906/2006 on medicinal products for paediatric use, the paediatric 
population is to be defined as that part of the population aged between birth and 18 years. In this 
study, by contrast, only patients until the age of 16 were included in the paediatric part. But since - 
according to enclosed demographic data listings - none of the adult trial patients was younger than 18 
years, no additional data analysis regarding the paediatric population is necessary. 
Main Inclusion Criteria 
  Resection of at least the equivalent tissue volume of 1 anatomical segment of the liver for any 
reason, either by laparotomy or by hand-assisted laparoscopy. 
  Minor to moderate (oozing/diffuse) bleeding from the resection area persisting after 
conventional resection procedure and primary control of arterial pulsating bleeding or major 
venous haemorrhage by sutures, ligations, clips, vascular stapler, point electrocautery, or focal 
radiofrequency ablation 
  Need for additional supportive haemostatic treatment 
Main Exclusion Criteria 
 
Indication for emergency surgery 
  Known coagulopathy (as judged relevant by the Investigator) 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 5/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Known or suspected hypersensitivity to any ingredient of the trial treatments (eg, human 
fibrinogen, human thrombin and/or collagen of any origin) 
  Dry surgical field of the targeted application area 
  Occurrence of any serious surgical complication 
  Application of topical haemostatic material on the liver resection wound 
  Radiofrequency pre-coagulation of the liver resection wound except focal radiofrequency 
ablation of vessels as primary haemostatic treatment 
Treatments 
Dosing (number of patches) was according to the wound size. The trial treatment was applied once or 
twice if needed, intraoperatively. 
The randomised trial treatment was applied immediately after randomisation and under aseptic 
conditions to all resection wound sites needing additional supportive haemostatic treatment, not only 
the “target bleeding site” with the most prominent bleeding, and particularly to any wound area left 
untreated by argon beam coagulator during resection of the liver. Vascular clamping of the liver (if 
applicable) was allowed, but was to be temporarily released for evaluation of haemostatic efficacy of 
the trial treatment. 
Immediately after application of the trial treatment, the patches were lightly pressed against the 
wound area for 3 minutes. If haemostasis was not obtained at the “target bleeding site” 5 minutes 
after application of the trial treatment, a second application of the trial treatment was performed. 
Surgicel® Original could stay on the wound area or be removed according to surgical practice; 
however, TachoSil® was not to be removed at any time. 
Concomitant medication 
If anticoagulant therapy was stopped within 2 days prior to surgery, this was recorded in the 
concomitant medications section of the eCRF. Anticoagulation treatment related to surgery, and 
reversal thereof, and blood and liquid substitution were recorded separately.  
Use of products containing thrombin or fibrinogen of any origin was not permitted during the trial. If 
any topical haemostatic material was applied before application of the trial treatment, the patient was 
to be excluded from the trial (see exclusion criteria, Section 9.3.2). After application of the trial 
treatment, no products containing thrombin or fibrinogen of any origin were to be applied. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint:  
Intraoperative haemostasis at target bleeding site within 3 minutes of application of allocated trial 
treatment 
Secondary efficacy endpoints:  
Intraoperative haemostasis at target bleeding site within 5 minutes of application of allocated trial 
treatment, and time to intraoperative haemostasis at target bleeding site within 10 minutes. 
Treatment failure was defined as haemostasis not achieved after 10 minutes. 
Safety evaluations included AEs, vital signs and clinical laboratory variables (including pregnancy test, 
haematology and blood chemistry. Immunogenicity testing to detect potential antibody formation and 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 6/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
viral serology were optional for patients ≥6 months of age.). Baseline values of INR, bilirubin, and 
creatinine were used to calculate the Model for End Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score. 
Upon request from competent authorities (FDA), special attention was to be drawn to any suspicion of 
events, signs and symptoms of the following when conducting trials with investigational products such 
as TachoSil®: 
 
 
 
hepatic abscess or other surgically related infections,  
adhesions leading to bowel obstruction,  
surgically related thromboembolic events. 
A hepatic abscess should have been suspected if the patient presented with abdominal pain, fever, 
chills, anorexia, tenderness and palpable mass etc.  
Bowel obstruction should have been suspected if the patient presented with nausea, vomiting, 
abdominal pain, distension, constipation and inability to pass gas.  
Thromboembolic events may present with numerous different symptoms. Hepatic portal vein 
thrombosis may have been suspected if the patient presented with abdominal pain, enlarged spleen, 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, blood in stool, abdominal enlargement, and oesophageal varices, among 
others. 
Analysis Plan 
All 29 paediatric patients were included in the paediatric safety analysis set (paediatric SAF). 17 of the 
29 treated patients, who were randomly assigned to treatment, were included in the paediatric full 
analysis set (paediatric FAS). The remaining 12 patients, who received treatment in the context of the 
paediatric extension part, were included in the paediatric extension set (paediatric EXT), which was a 
subset of the paediatric SAF. 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 7/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Disposition data for paediatric patients are presented in Figure 3. 
Baseline data 
Demographics 
Demographic data for the paediatric SAF population are summarised in Table 4. 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 8/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medical history and concomitant illness 
Relevant medical history included 2 cases of gastrointestinal haemorrhage, 3 cases of cholecystectomy 
and 2 cases of portoenterostomy, all in the TachoSil® group (n=20). 
Patient indication for liver resection in paediatric patients is summarised in Table 9. 
Concomitant illness was reported for a total of 26 (89.7%) paediatric patients: 18 (90.0%) patients in 
the TachoSil® group and 8 (88.9%) patients in the Surgicel® Original treatment group. In the 
TachoSil® group, the most frequently reported concomitant illness PTs were splenomegaly and 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 9/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
thrombocytopenia (each 30.0% of patients), anaemia and gastrooesophageal reflux disease (each 
25.0% of patients). In the Surgicel® Original group, the most frequently reported concomitant illness 
PTs were neurosensory deafness, hepatic cirrhosis, drug hypersensitivity, and food allergy (each 
22.2%). 
Efficacy results 
A total of 17 (of 20) patients treated with TachoSil® reached the primary endpoint of haemostasis 
within 3 minutes. The secondary endpoint, haemostasis within 5 minutes, was reached by 19 
TachoSil® patients and all 20 patients achieved haemostasis within 10 minutes. 
These results were comparable to those of the adult study population. 
For the paediatric FAS, a summary of time to haemostasis of TachoSil® compared to Surgicel® is 
displayed in Table 17. 
Treatment exposure 
Of the 20 patients treated with TachoSil®, 19 had one application of treatment, 1 had a second one. In 
16 patients up to one patch was applied, in the remaining 4 patients a maximum of two patches were 
used for treatment. 
Safety results 
Adverse events (AEs) 
AEs occurred in all of the 20 TachoSil® study subjects. A total of 156 AEs were reported, thereof 34 
serious AEs occurred in 12 of the 20 subjects. 
A summary of AEs in paediatric patients is presented in Table 21.  
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 10/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The AE PTs most frequently reported for patients in the TachoSil® group were pyrexia (9 [45.0%] 
patients), anaemia (6 [30.0%] patients), and diarrhoea (4 [20.0%] patients). The AE PT most 
frequently reported for patients in the Surgicel Original® group was pyrexia (5 [55.6%] patients). No 
other PT was reported for more than 2 patients in the Surgicel® Original group. 
None of these AEs were considered treatment related by the investigator. 
One AE of an exsanguination leading to death occurred, which was also not considered related to 
treatment with TachoSil®. 
A separate summary of adverse events of special interest in paediatric patients is depicted in Table 28.  
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 11/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comment: 
A total of 156 AEs were reported in the paediatric study population, including 34 serious AEs and 1 AE 
leading to death as well as 12 AEs of special interest. None of these AEs was considered related to 
study treatment by the investigator. 
However, especially for the adverse events of special interest, study drug relatedness would at least to 
some degree be assumed as a matter of principle. Therefore, the MAH is asked to submit the causality 
assessments for these AEs of special interest. Additionally, the causality assessment for the AE leading 
to death should be provided. 
Laboratory values & vital signs 
Summary statistics, shift plots and individual listings of laboratory values and vital signs are provided 
by the MAH.  
Several patients in each treatment group had clinically significant abnormal values at certain visits and 
several patients in each treatment group had AEs related to abnormal results. However, the only SAEs 
related to abnormal laboratory results were febrile neutropenia (1 patient each in the TachoSil® group 
and Surgicel® Original group). Neither of these SAEs was considered by the investigator to be related 
to treatment. 
Immunogenicity 
Informed consent for immunogenicity testing was provided for 4 (50.0%) patients in the TachoSil® 
group. No paediatric patient included in the immunogenicity testing developed antibodies to equine 
collagen, fibrinogen, albumin, or thrombin. 
Viral serology 
None of the paediatric patients showed a positive result after viral serology testing. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Following Article 46 of Paediatric Regulation (EC) No. 1906, the Clinical Trial Report TC-2402-040-SP 
for the study “A randomized, open label, parallel-group, multi-center trial to compare the efficacy and 
safety of TachoSil® versus Surgicel® Original for the secondary treatment of local bleeding in adult 
and pediatric patients undergoing hepatic resection surgery” was submitted by Takeda Austria GmbH. 
TachoSil® is a ready-to-use degradable surgical patch developed for topical use consisting of a dry 
foamed collagen carrier of equine origin, coated with human fibrinogen and human thrombin. As 
comparator product, Surgicel® Original was used, which is a standard haemostatic agent consisting of 
oxidised regenerated cellulose. 
A paediatric part with 29 subjects was included in the study. Of these, 17 were randomly assigned to 
treatment (8 to TachoSil® and 9 to Surgicel®), whereas 12 were enrolled in the context of an 
extension trial and exclusively treated with TachoSil®, so that in total 20 paediatric patients were 
treated with TachoSil®. 
Indication for liver resection in the 20 paediatric subjects treated with TachoSil® included, inter alia, 
malignant tumor, portal vein thrombosis, hepatic cirrhosis, congenital hepatic/biliary disease. 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 12/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Randomisation to TachoSil® or Surgicel® Original was conducted during surgery, after completion of 
primary haemostatic treatment. Trial treatment was applied to all resection wound sites needing 
additional supportive haemostatic treatment (not only the “target bleeding site”). Dosing (number of 
patches) was according to the wound size.  
For efficacy evaluation, intraoperative haemostasis at the target bleeding site within 3, 5 and 10 
minutes after application of allocated trial treatment was assessed.  
All 20 paediatric subjects treated with TachoSil® achieved haemostasis within 10 minutes, and 17 of 
them already within 3 minutes after product application.  
Adverse events (AEs) occurred in all 20 paediatric TachoSil® study subjects. In total, 156 AEs were 
reported, including 34 serious AEs with 1 AE of an exsanguination leading to death, furthermore 12 
AEs of special interest (adhesions, hepatic abscess, thromboembolic events). None of these AEs was 
considered related to study treatment by the investigator. 
However, especially for the adverse events of special interest, study drug relatedness would at least to 
some degree be assumed as a matter of principle. Therefore, the MAH is asked to submit the causality 
assessments for these AEs. Additionally, the causality assessment for the AE leading to death should 
be provided. 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 13/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
From the paediatric study data presented by the MAH, no new information beyond what is already 
reflected in the current valid SmPC can be drawn. Nevertheless, for a final assessment, some 
information as detailed in the list of questions below is still missing. 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled: 
  Not fulfilled: 
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should provide additional information as part of this procedure 
as outlined below. (see section IV “Additional clarifications requested”) 
4.  Additional clarifications requested 
A total of 156 AEs were reported in the paediatric study population, including 34 serious AEs and 1 AE 
leading to death as well as 12 AEs of special interest. None of these AEs was considered related to 
study treatment by the investigator. 
However, especially for the adverse events of special interest, study drug relatedness would at least to 
some degree be assumed as a matter of principle. Therefore, the MAH is asked to submit the causality 
assessments for these AEs of special interest. Additionally, the causality assessment for the AE leading 
to death should be provided. 
The timetable is a 30 day response timetable with clock stop. 
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Rapporteur’s assessment of the MAH’s responses  
Question 1 
A total of 156 AEs were reported in the paediatric study population, including 34 serious AEs and 1 AE 
leading to death as well as 12 AEs of special interest. None of these AEs was considered related to 
study treatment by the investigator. 
However, especially for the adverse events of special interest, study drug relatedness would at least to 
some degree be assumed as a matter of principle. Therefore, the MAH is asked to submit the causality 
assessments for these AEs of special interest. Additionally, the causality assessment for the AE leading 
to death should be provided. 
MAH’s responses 
The MAH submits a tabular list of all SAEs and Adverse Events of Special Interest, which occurred in a 
total of 14 subjects during the study, including the fatal case. A causality assessment, which has been 
re-reviewed by the company for the purposes of this procedure, is enclosed for each case. 
Assessment of the MAH’s responses 
Following the provided causality assessments, events were coincidental with other conditions being 
more likely the cause (e.g. underlying stenosis of the suprahepatic vena cava in the event of hepatic 
artery thrombosis), or relatedness to TachoSil® was biologically implausible (e.g. post procedural bile 
leak) or latency of onset after product administration was considered too long to be indicative of a 
causal relationship. 
Conclusion 
The causality assessments, which were provided for all SAEs and adverse events of special interest by 
the MAH, are considered reasonable and comprehensive.  
Therefore, the issue is regarded as resolved. 
6.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion on the MAH’s responses 
and recommendation 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled:  
Upon request for additional information, satisfactory response was provided by 
the MAH. Therefore, the procedure is considered fulfilled.  
EMA/698384/2014  
Page 15/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
