London, 26 January 2006 
Product name: TachoSil 
Procedure number: H-505-II-06 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1.1. 
Introduction 
The  applicant  has  performed  a  clinical  trial  (study  TC-015-IN)  in  patients  undergoing  surgical 
treatment for surgical resection of superficial renal tumour. This is part of a follow up measure, which 
was asked to the MAH.  
Based on these efficacy and safety data, the MAH proposes to amend the indication section and to use 
the  product  for  any  types  of  surgery;  mainly  to  delete  the  sentence  “Efficacy  has  only  been 
demonstrated in liver surgery” in section 4.1, and to implement a short advice on the additional study 
in renal surgery in section 5.1. Pharmacodynamics properties. 
In addition, an update of section 4.8 undesirable events to introduce pyrexia as an undesirable event 
and minor update of local representative is proposed.  
1.2  Clinical aspects 
Since  the  initial  application,  Tachosil  has  been  approved  for  the  following  indication  with  the 
restrictions mentioned below.  
•  TachoSil  is  indicated  for  supportive  treatment  in  surgery  for  improvement  of  haemostasis 
where standard techniques are insufficient. 
Specific  data  have  not  been  obtained  on  the  use  of  this  product  in  neurosurgery,  in  vascular 
surgery or in gastrointestinal anastomoses. 
Furthermore,  the  use  of  TachoSil  for  tissue  sealing  is  not  supported  based  on  the  results  of  the 
clinical studies undertaken.  
Indeed, at time of first application, the MAH submitted data in liver and lung surgery. During lung 
surgery the product’s qualities in the indication of “tissue sealing” were tested and did not show 
sufficient efficacy. Therefore, the use of Tachosil is not considered in this type of indication. 
1.2.1-Methodology- study design 
Study TC-015-IN:  
This  study  was  an  open,  randomised,  prospective,  multi-centre,  parallel-group  trial  comparing  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  TachoSil  with  those  of  standard  surgical  treatment  in  patients  undergoing 
surgical resection of superficial renal tumour. 
The  trial  population  consisted  of  patients  undergoing  nephron-sparing  resection  of  superficial  renal 
tumours. Patients were eligible for inclusion in the trial if the tumour was not infiltrating the urinary 
tract, and if the surgical intervention did not require major kidney resection or extirpation, and if the 
patient was scheduled for open surgery.  
After primary haemostasis the patients were randomised to TachoSil or standard suturing. 
One hundred and eighty five patients were included in the study. 
The primary objective was to test haemostatic efficacy and safety of TachoSil by comparison of two 
trial treatments, TachoSil and standard suturing. 
The primary efficacy variable was the intra-operative time to haemostasis as well as the proportion of 
subjects  with  haemostasis  after  10  min  of  trial  treatment.  The  surrogate  endpoint,  occurrence  of 
haematoma on Day 2 after surgery, was also used for comparison of haemostatic efficacy. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  secondary  objectives  included  description  of  volume  and  haemoglobin  concentration  of  post-
operative drainage fluid as well as surgeon’s rating of usefulness of trial treatment and occurrence of 
haematoma on Day 2 after surgery. Safety was evaluated by occurrence of adverse events. 
1.2.2- Efficacy results 
The primary efficacy endpoints, i.e. time to haemostasis and proportion of subjects with haemostasis 
after 10 min of trial treatment, showed a statistically significant difference in favour of TachoSil.  
Time to haemostasis: 
TachoSil 
Average (median) time, min 
5.3   (3.0) 
The difference between treatments was statistically significant p<0,0001 (log-rank test) 
Standard 
9.5   (8.0) 
Proportion of subjects with haemostasis at 10 min:  
Before/at 10 min 
After 10 min 
p<0.0001 (Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel) 
TachoSil 
84 (92%) 
7   (8%) 
Standard 
62 (67%) 
30 (33%) 
The secondary endpoints of haematoma formation, average volume of drainage fluid on day 1, average 
duration  of  drainage,  Hb  concentration  of  drainage  fluid  on  day  1,  blood  and  liquid  substitution  on 
days  1  and  2  after  surgery,  and  usefulness  of  trial  treatment  rated  by  surgeon,  did  not  reveal  any 
difference between the groups.  
The study results clearly show favourable haemostatic efficacy for Tachosil for the primary efficacy 
variable compared to standard treatment following secondary haemostasis in renal surgery. 
1.2.3- Safety results  
A total of 163 adverse events were reported during the trial period: 99 events in 43 TachoSil subjects 
and 64 events in 37 standard treatment subjects. The total number of adverse events and the number of 
serious  adverse  events  were  higher  in  TachoSil  subjects,  which  seems  incidental  as  all  individual 
adverse events were equally distributed except fever and extravasation of urine, both common types of 
events in renal surgery.   
Fever  (coded  as  pyrexia,  postoperative  fever  and  body  temperature  increased)  was  reported  in  17 
TachoSil  subjects  and  in  7  standard  treatment  subjects.  All  subjects  had  several  risk  factors  for 
development of fever, e.g. recent surgery, general anaesthesia and cancer.  
Extravasation  of  urine  was  reported  in  three  TachoSil  subjects  (3.3%)  and  in  no  standard  treatment 
subject. Two of the events were serious and considered unlikely related to TachoSil by Investigators. 
No subject withdrew from the trial due to adverse events. 
It is proposed to add pyrexia in section 4.8 undesirable event as it clarifies the condition of fever as a 
general possibility and not only under immunological aspects. The sentence will be as follows  
under the system organ class general disorder and administration site condition :  
“Pyrexia may occur commonly.”    
In addition, the package leaflet is updated accordingly to add fever as a potential adverse event: 
You may experience fever when taking Tachosil. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3   Discussion 
The  results  of  this  study  are  in  accordance  with  previous  experience  with  TachoSil  trials  in  liver 
resection,  where  TachoSil  shows  significant  shorter  time  to  haemostasis  compared  to  standard 
techniques combined with a sufficient safety profile.   
remains 
the  product  still 
the  same.  During 
target  population  of 
The 
the  procedure, 
Experts’opinionwere requested from the MAH on the question of extrapolation of results obtained in 
the treatment of bleeding episodes in high-level surgery (liver resection and superficial renal tumour 
extirpation) to surgery in general in various organs and tissues.  
The  conclusions  of  the  experts  clearly  indicate  that  there  is  a  scientific  and  practical  surgical 
justification  for  the  use  of  TachoSil  as  supportive  haemostatic  treatment  in  all  organs,  based  on  the 
clinical data obtained in the two different organ systems, liver and kidney. Furthermore, liver surgery 
and  renal  surgery  are  challenging bleeding  situations and  the product  would be  expected  to work  in 
less severe bleeding situations.  
Consistency in results of all studies even with different comparators confirms that treatment effects of 
TachoSil  are  not  organ  specific.  In  fact,  it  appears  that  except  for  specific  areas  of  application,  e.g. 
vascular  surgery,  GI-anastomoses  and  neurosurgery  (which  require  specific  data  as  described  in  the 
SPC section 4.4), TachoSil can be regarded by the surgeon as a general product for improvement of 
secondary haemostasis. 
In  addition,  from  the  predecessor  products  TachoComb  and  TachoComb  H,  which  both  differ  from 
TachoSil  in  containing  aprotinin  and  TachoComb  bovine  thrombin,  there  are  several  years  of 
experiences  in  a  wide  range  of  organs  and  surgical  procedures  i.e.  urology  abdominal-,  neuro-, 
vascular-, heart and thoracic surgery, ENT and gynaecology. 
The current indication for TachoSil represents a full indication as supportive treatment in surgery for 
improvement of haemostasis where standard techniques are insufficient. The sentence regarding liver 
surgery does not represent a restriction of the indication but provides information on where efficacy 
has been demonstrated. 
Therefore,  the  data  provided  by  the  MAH  could  be  extrapolated  to  other  types  of  surgery,  with  the 
following restrictions: 
The  product  is  not  intended  for  use  in  tissue  sealing  (such  as  lung  surgery),  vascular  surgery, 
gastrointestinal anastomoses, neurosurgery as mentioned in the Tachosil SPC in accordance with the 
current  core  SPC  on  fibrin  sealant/haemostatic  products  (CHMP/BPWG/153/00,  July  2004). 
Additional specific studies would be required for granting these indications. 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the data provided by the MAH (renal surgery study) do not represent 
an extension of indication as such but represent more a second proof of evidence of the efficacy in a 
second type of surgery.  
Thus,  it  can  be  applied  in  most  surgical  situations  with  a  predictable  clinical  outcome,  which  is 
correctly  reflected  in  the  SPC  with  the  proposed  changes.  Therefore  the  deletion  of  the  statement 
“Efficacy has only been demonstrated in livery surgery” in section 4.1 has adequately been justified.  
In conclusion, based on the review of the data on the clinical study report TC-015-IN, regarding the 
use  of  Tachosil 
the  variation  application 
EMEA/H/C/505/II/06  for  TachoSil  in  the  treatment  of:  “Supportive  treatment  in  surgery  for 
improvement  of  haemostasis  where  standard  techniques  are  insufficient.  (Efficacy  has  only  been 
demonstrated in livery surgery)”, is approvable for the proposed SPC and PIL changes:  
the  CHMP  considers 
renal  surgery, 
that 
in 
SPC - Section 4.1:Therapeutic indications 
Deletion  of  the  sentence  “Efficacy  has  only  been  demonstrated  in  livery  surgery”  in  the  indication 
section. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPC: Undesirable events 
Addition of pyrexia in the list of adverse events: 
“Pyrexia may occur commonly.”    
SPC – Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties 
In order to update and more accurately reflect the study data, the information regarding the renal study 
is added as follows in section 5.1 of the SPC:   
“Clinical  studies  demonstrating  haemostasis  were  conducted  in  a  total  of  240  patients  undergoing 
partial liver resection and 185 patients undergoing surgical resection of superficial renal tumour.”  
In addition, the PIL is updated to add fever as a possible adverse event and the applicant proposes an 
update of local representative in the patient leaflet.  
II. 
 CONCLUSION 
On 26 January 2006 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
