ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
TachoSil sealant matrix 
2 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
TachoSil contains per cm2: 
Human fibrinogen 5.5 mg 
Human thrombin 2.0 IU 
For a full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Sealant matrix. 
TachoSil is an off-white sealant matrix. The active side of the matrix, which is coated with fibrinogen 
and thrombin, is marked by a yellow colour. 
4 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
TachoSil is indicated in adults and children from 1 month of age for supportive treatment in surgery 
for improvement of haemostasis, to promote tissue sealing and for suture support in vascular surgery 
where standard techniques are insufficient.  
TachoSil is indicated in adults for supportive sealing of the dura mater to prevent postoperative 
cerebrospinal leakage following neurological surgery (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
The use of TachoSil is restricted to experienced surgeons. 
Posology 
The quantity of TachoSil to be applied should always be oriented towards the underlying clinical need 
for the patient. The quantity of TachoSil to be applied is governed by the size of the wound area. 
Application of TachoSil must be individualised by the treating surgeon. In clinical studies, the 
individual doses have typically ranged from 1-3 units (9.5 cm x 4.8 cm); application of up to 10 units 
has been reported. For smaller wounds, e.g., in minimally invasive surgery the smaller size matrices 
(4.8 cm x 4.8 cm or 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm) or the pre-rolled matrix (based on a matrix of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm) is 
recommended. 
Method of administration 
For epilesional use only. Do not use intravascularly. 
See section 6.6 for more detailed instructions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
TachoSil must not be applied intravascularly. 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
For epilesional use only. 
Do not use intravascularly. Life threatening thromboembolic complications may occur if the 
preparation is applied intravascularly. 
Specific data have not been obtained on the use of this product in gastrointestinal anastomoses 
surgery. 
It is not known whether recent radiation therapy affects the efficacy of TachoSil when used for dura 
mater sealing. 
As with any protein-containing product, allergic type hypersensitivity reactions are possible. Signs of 
hypersensitivity reactions include hives, generalised urticaria, tightness of the chest, wheezing, 
hypotension and anaphylaxis. If these symptoms occur, the administration has to be discontinued 
immediately. 
To prevent the development of tissue adhesions at undesired sites, ensure tissue areas outside the 
desired application area are adequately cleansed before administration of TachoSil (see section 6.6). 
Events of adhesions to gastrointestinal tissues leading to gastrointestinal obstruction have been 
reported with use in abdominal surgery carried out in proximity to the bowel. 
In case of shock, the current medical standards for shock treatment should be observed. 
Standard measures to prevent infections resulting from the use of medicinal products prepared from 
human blood or plasma include selection of donors, screening of individual donations and plasma 
pools for specific markers of infection and the inclusion of effective manufacturing steps for the 
inactivation/removal of viruses. Despite this, when medicinal products prepared from human blood or 
plasma are administered, the possibility of transmitting infective agents cannot be totally excluded. 
This also applies to unknown or emerging viruses and other pathogens. 
The measures taken are considered effective for enveloped viruses such as HIV, HBV and HCV and 
for the non-enveloped virus HAV. The measures taken may be of limited value against non-enveloped 
viruses such as parvovirus B19. Parvovirus B19 infection may be serious for pregnant women (foetal 
infection) and for individuals with immunodeficiency or increased erythropoiesis (e.g., haemolytic 
anaemia). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Similar to comparable products or thrombin solutions, the sealant may be denatured after exposure to 
solutions containing alcohol, iodine or heavy metals (e.g., antiseptic solutions). Such substances 
should be removed to the greatest possible extent before applying the sealant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
The safety of TachoSil for use in human pregnancy or breastfeeding has not been established in 
controlled clinical studies. Experimental animal studies are insufficient to assess the safety with 
respect to reproduction, development of the embryo or foetus, the course of gestation and peri- and 
postnatal development. 
Therefore, TachoSil should be administered to pregnant and breastfeeding women only if clearly 
needed. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Not relevant. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Hypersensitivity or allergic reactions (which may include angioedema, burning and stinging at the 
application site, bronchospasm, chills, flushing, generalised urticaria, headache, hives, hypotension, 
lethargy, nausea, restlessness, tachycardia, tightness of the chest, tingling, vomiting, wheezing) may 
occur in rare cases in patients treated with fibrin sealants/haemostatics. In isolated cases, these 
reactions may progress to severe anaphylaxis. Such reactions may especially be seen, if the 
preparation is applied repeatedly, or administered to patients known to be hypersensitive to 
constituents of the product. 
Immunogenicity 
Antibodies against components of fibrin sealant/haemostatic products may occur rarely. 
However, in a clinical study with TachoSil in hepatic surgery, in which patients were investigated for 
the development of antibodies, 26% of the 96 patients tested and treated with TachoSil developed 
antibodies to equine collagen. The equine collagen antibodies that developed in some patients after 
TachoSil use were not reactive with human collagen. One patient developed antibodies to human 
fibrinogen. 
There were no adverse events attributable to the development of human fibrinogen or equine collagen 
antibodies. 
There is very limited clinical data available regarding re-exposure to TachoSil. Two subjects have 
been re-exposed in a clinical study and have not reported any immune-mediated adverse events; 
however, their antibody status to collagen or fibrinogen is unknown. 
Thromboembolic complications may occur if the preparation is applied intravascularly (see 
section 4.4). 
Some cases of product residue, that might have caused a foreign-body reaction in the form of 
granuloma, have been reported. 
For viral safety see section 4.4. 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety data of TachoSil generally reflect the type of post-operative complications related to the 
surgical settings in which the trials were conducted and the underlying disease of the patients. 
Data from the eight controlled clinical studies conducted by the MAH has been pooled into an 
integrated dataset. In the integrated analyses, 997 patients were treated with TachoSil, and 984 patients 
were treated with comparator treatment. Due to practical reasons (comparison to standard surgical and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
standard haemostatic treatment), blinding was not possible in the TachoSil trials. Therefore, the 
studies were performed as open-label studies. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported with TachoSil during post marketing experience. 
The frequency of all of the events listed below has been categorised as not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). 
System organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders  
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Frequency not known 
Anaphylactic shock, Hypersensitivity 
Thrombosis 
Intestinal obstruction (in abdominal surgeries) 
Adhesions 
Foreign-body granuloma formation 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No case of overdose has been reported. 
5 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Local haemostatics, ATC code: B02BC30 
TachoSil contains fibrinogen and thrombin as a dried coating on the surface of a collagen matrix. In 
contact with physiological fluids, e.g., blood, lymph or physiological saline solution the components 
of the coating dissolve and partly diffuse into the wound surface. This is followed by the 
fibrinogen-thrombin reaction which initiates the last phase of physiological blood coagulation. 
Fibrinogen is converted into fibrin monomers which spontaneously polymerise to a fibrin clot, which 
holds the collagen matrix tightly to the wound surface. The fibrin is then cross linked by endogenous 
factor XIII, creating a firm, mechanically stable network with good adhesive properties and therefore 
provides sealing as well. 
Clinical studies demonstrating haemostasis were conducted in a total of 240 patients (119 TachoSil, 
121 argon beamer) undergoing partial liver resection surgery and 185 patients (92 TachoSil, 
93 standard surgical treatment) undergoing surgical resection of superficial renal tumour. A further 
controlled study in 119 patients (62 TachoSil, 57 haemostatic fleece) demonstrated sealing, 
haemostasis and suture support in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery. Tissue sealing in lung 
surgery was investigated in two controlled trials in patients undergoing lung surgery. The first 
controlled clinical study investigating tissue sealing in lung surgery failed to document superiority 
over standard treatment measured by air leakage due to the inclusion of a large group of patients 
(53%) without air leakage. However, the second study investigating tissue sealing in 299 patients 
(149 TachoSil, 150 standard surgical treatment) with demonstrated intraoperative air leakage showed 
the superiority of TachoSil compared to standard treatment. 
The efficacy of TachoSil was tested in a randomised controlled study in 726 patients (362 treated with 
TachoSil and 364 controls) undergoing skull base surgery as an adjunct to suture for sealing the dura 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mater, in which the efficacy outcome was measured post-operatively as verified cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) leaks or pseudomeningocoele, or treatment failure during surgery. In this study, superiority over 
current practice (which included suture, duraplasty and fibrin and polymer sealants or combinations of 
these) could not be documented. The numbers of subjects experiencing an efficacy outcome event 
were 25 (6.9%) and 30 (8.2%) for TachoSil and current practice treated patients, respectively, 
providing an Odds Ratio of 0.82 (95% CI: 0.47, 1.43). However, the 95% confidence intervals for the 
odds ratio results indicated that TachoSil had similar efficacy to current practice. In this study two 
application techniques for TachoSil were evaluated: application of TachoSil over the dura and 
application of TachoSil on both sides of the dura. The results did not support the second method. 
TachoSil was found to be well tolerated and safe for use as an adjunct to dura mater closure in 
neurosurgery. 
Paediatric population 
Limited data are available to support efficacy and safety of TachoSil in the paediatric population. In 
clinical studies, a total of 36 paediatric patients aged 0-13 years were treated with TachoSil in hepatic 
surgery. One study was prematurely stopped after enrolment of 16 of 40 planned patients. In a further 
study, 8 paediatric subjects were enrolled in a comparative design, additional 12 subjects were 
enrolled open-label.  
No valid data on immunogenicity is available. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
TachoSil is intended for epilesional use only. Intravascular administration is contraindicated. 
Therefore, intravascular pharmacokinetic studies were not performed in man. 
Fibrin sealants/haemostatics are metabolized in the same way as endogenous fibrin by fibrinolysis and 
phagocytosis. 
In animal studies, TachoSil biodegrades after administration to a wound surface with few remnants 
left after 13 weeks. Complete degradation of TachoSil was seen in some animals 12 months after its 
administration to a liver wound, whereas small remnants were still observed in others. The degradation 
was associated with infiltration of granulocytes and formation of resorptive granulation tissue 
encapsulating the degraded remnants of TachoSil. No evidence of local intolerability has been 
observed in animal studies. 
From the experience in humans there have been isolated cases where remnants were observed as 
coincidental findings with no signs of functional impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Single dose toxicity studies in different species of animals have shown no signs of acute toxic effects. 
6 
 PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Equine collagen 
Human albumin 
Riboflavine (E101) 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium citrate (E331) 
L-arginine-hydrochloride. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
Once the foil sachet is opened, TachoSil must be used immediately. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25 ºC. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Each sealant matrix is packed in a PET-GAG blister sealed with a coated PE foil. The blister is packed 
in an aluminium-bonded foil sachet with a desiccant bag included and packed in a folding carton. 
Pack sizes 
Package with 1 matrix of 9.5 cm x 4.8 cm 
Package with 2 matrices of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
Package with 1 matrix of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
Package with 5 matrices of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
Package with 1 pre-rolled matrix of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
TachoSil comes ready to use in sterile packages and must be handled accordingly. Use only 
undamaged packages. Once the package is opened, post-sterilisation is not possible. The outer 
aluminium foil sachet may be opened in a non-sterile operating area. The inner sterile blister must be 
opened in a sterile operating room area. TachoSil should be used immediately after opening the inner 
sterile cover. 
TachoSil is used under sterile conditions. Prior to application the wound area should be cleansed, e.g., 
from blood, disinfectants, and other fluids. After removal of the conventional, flat TachoSil from the 
sterile package it should be pre-moistened in saline solution and then applied immediately. The 
yellow, active side of the matrix is applied to the bleeding/leaking surface and held against it with a 
gentle pressure for 3-5 minutes. This procedure enables an easy adhesion of TachoSil to the wound 
surface. 
After removal of the pre-rolled TachoSil from the sterile package it should be applied immediately 
through the trocar without pre-moistening. While unrolling the matrix the yellow, active side of the 
matrix is applied to the bleeding/leaking surface using e.g., a pair of cleansed forceps and held against 
it with a moist pad under gentle pressure for 3-5 minutes. This procedure enables an easy adhesion of 
TachoSil to the wound surface. 
Pressure is applied with moistened gloves or a moist pad. Due to the strong affinity of collagen to 
blood, TachoSil may also stick to surgical instruments, gloves or adjacent tissues covered with blood. 
This can be avoided by cleansing surgical instruments, and gloves and adjacent tissues before 
application. It is important to note that failure to adequately clean adjacent tissues may cause 
adhesions (see section 4.4). After pressing TachoSil to the wound, the glove or the pad must be 
removed carefully. To avoid TachoSil from being pulled loose it may be held in place at one end, e.g., 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with a pair of forceps. 
Alternatively, e.g., in case of stronger bleeding, TachoSil may be applied without pre-moistening, 
while also pressing gently to the wound for 3-5 minutes. 
The active side of TachoSil should be applied so that it extends 1-2 cm beyond the margins of the 
wound. If more than one matrix is used, they should overlap. TachoSil can be cut to the correct size 
and shaped if too large. 
In neurosurgery, TachoSil should be applied on top of the primary dura closure. 
Pre-rolled TachoSil can be used for both open surgery and in minimally invasive surgery, and it can 
pass through a 10 mm or larger port or trocar. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Corza Medical GmbH 
Speditionstraße 21 
40221 Düsseldorf 
Germany 
8  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/04/277/001-005 
9 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION / RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 8 June 2004 
Date of latest renewal: 30 April 2009 
10  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCES AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.   MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCES AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substances 
CSL Behring GmbH 
Emil-von-Behring-Strasse 76 
35041 Marburg 
Germany 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Takeda Austria GmbH 
St. Peter Strasse 25 
A-4020 Linz 
Austria 
B.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
 
Official batch release 
In accordance with Article 114 of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended, the official batch release will be 
undertaken by a state laboratory, or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit PSUR for this product in accordance with the 
requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines 
web-portal. 
D.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of an RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
TachoSil sealant matrix 
human fibrinogen/human thrombin 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each matrix contains per cm2 
Human fibrinogen 5.5 mg 
Human thrombin 2.0 IU 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Equine collagen, human albumin, riboflavin (E101), sodium chloride, sodium citrate (E331), 
L-arginine-hydrochloride 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Sealant matrix 
1 matrix of 9.5 cm x 4.8 cm 
2 matrices of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
1 matrix of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
5 matrices of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
1 pre-rolled matrix of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For epilesional use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Once the foil sachet is opened, use immediately. Do not resterilise. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25 ºC 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Corza Medical GmbH 
Speditionstraße 21 
40221 Düsseldorf 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/04/277/001 1 matrix of 9.5 cm x 4.8 cm 
EU/1/04/277/002 2 matrices of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
EU/1/04/277/003 1 matrix of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
EU/1/04/277/004 5 matrices of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
EU/1/04/277/005 1 pre-rolled matrix of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
ALUMINIUM-BONDED FOIL SACHET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
TachoSil sealant matrix 
human fibrinogen/human thrombin 
For epilesional use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1 matrix of 9.5 cm x 4.8 cm 
1 matrix of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
1 matrix of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
1 pre-rolled matrix of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
6. 
OTHER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
POLYETHYLENE TEREPHTHALATE BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
TachoSil 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Corza Medical GmbH 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
TachoSil sealant matrix 
human fibrinogen/human thrombin 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What TachoSil is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before TachoSil is used 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use TachoSil 
Possible side effects 
How to store TachoSil 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What TachoSil is and what it is used for 
How does TachoSil work? 
The yellow side of TachoSil contains the active components: fibrinogen and thrombin. The yellow 
side of TachoSil is therefore the active side. When the active side comes into contact with fluids (such 
as blood, lymph or saline solution) the fibrinogen and the thrombin are activated and form a fibrin 
network. This means that the TachoSil sticks to the tissue surface, the blood coagulates (local 
haemostasis) and the tissue is sealed. In the body TachoSil will dissolve and disappear completely. 
What is TachoSil used for? 
TachoSil is used during surgery to stop local bleeding (haemostasis) and to seal tissue surfaces on 
internal organs in adults and in children from 1 month of age. 
TachoSil is also indicated in adults in neurosurgery to support sealing of dura mater and prevent 
postoperative cerebrospinal leakage. 
2.  What you need to know before TachoSil is used 
Do not use TachoSil 
- 
if you are allergic to human fibrinogen, human thrombin or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
TachoSil is for local use only and should not be applied inside a blood vessel. Blood clots may occur if 
TachoSil is unintentionally applied inside a blood vessel. 
It is possible that you could suffer an allergic reaction after TachoSil has been applied. You may suffer 
hives, or a rash similar to nettle rash, chest discomfort or tightness, wheezing or low blood pressure. 
You should contact your doctor immediately if you discover any of these symptoms. 
After abdominal surgery and if TachoSil sticks to nearby tissues, it is possible that scar tissues can 
develop in the operated area. Scar tissues can cause surfaces in your bowel to stick together, which can 
lead to blockage of the bowel. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When medicines are made from human blood or plasma, certain measures are put in place to prevent 
infections being passed on to the patients. These include careful selection of blood and plasma donors 
to make sure those at risk of carrying infections are excluded, and the testing of each donation and 
pools of plasma for signs of virus/infections. Manufacturers of these products also include steps in the 
processing of the blood or plasma that can inactivate or remove viruses. Despite these measures, when 
medicines prepared from human blood or plasma are administered, the possibility of passing on 
infection cannot be totally excluded. This also applies to any unknown or emerging viruses or other 
types of infections. 
The measures taken are considered effective for enveloped viruses such as human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus, and for the non-enveloped hepatitis A virus. The 
measures taken may be of limited value against non-enveloped viruses such as parvovirus B19. 
Parvovirus B19 infection may be serious for pregnant woman (foetal infection) and for individuals 
whose immune system is depressed or who have some types of anaemia, (e.g., sickle cell disease or 
haemolytic anaemia). 
Other medicines and TachoSil 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
3.   How to use TachoSil 
The doctor treating you will apply TachoSil during surgery. The quantity of TachoSil used depends on 
the size of the wound. The doctor will place TachoSil on the internal organ to stop the bleeding or to 
seal the tissue. During the following time TachoSil will dissolve and disappear. 
4.  
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
TachoSil is made of protein-containing components. The active components are made from human 
blood. All medicines based on human blood may uncommonly cause allergic reactions. In isolated 
cases these allergic reactions may progress to anaphylactic shock. 
These allergic reactions may occur especially if TachoSil is used repeatedly or if you are allergic to 
any of the ingredients in TachoSil. 
A clinical study has shown that some patients produced antibodies against the components of 
TachoSil, however, no side effects were reported resulting from the development of these antibodies. 
Scar tissues may develop in some patients after surgery and use of TachoSil. Bowel obstruction and 
pain following abdominal surgeries can also occur. Foreign-body granuloma formation has been 
identified as a potential risk. The frequency of these types of events is not known (cannot be estimated 
from available data). Your surgeon will make sure to clean the operating area when applying TachoSil 
to reduce this risk. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5.   How to store TachoSil 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label after “EXP”. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25 °C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6.   Contents of the pack and other information 
What TachoSil contains 
- 
- 
The active substances are human fibrinogen (5.5 mg per cm2) and human thrombin (2.0 IU per 
cm2). 
The other ingredients are equine collagen, human albumin, riboflavin (E101), sodium chloride, 
sodium citrate (E331) and L-arginine-hydrochloride. 
What TachoSil looks like and contents of the pack 
TachoSil is a sealant matrix made of collagen, which is coated on the yellow side with human 
fibrinogen and human thrombin. 
The product is available in different sizes and comes in packages with up to 5 units: 
Package with 1 matrix of 9.5 cm x 4.8 cm 
Package with 2 matrices of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
Package with 1 matrix of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
Package with 5 matrices of 3.0 cm x 2.5 cm 
Package with 1 pre-rolled matrix of 4.8 cm x 4.8 cm 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Corza Medical GmbH 
Speditionstraße 21 
40221 Düsseldorf 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Takeda Austria GmbH   
St. Peter Strasse 25 
A-4020 Linz, Austria 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
Read this before you open the package: 
TachoSil comes in sterile packages and therefore it is important: 
 
 
 
 
 
only to use undamaged packages which have not been opened (post-sterilisation is not possible). 
to have a non-sterile person open the outer aluminium cover 
to have a sterile person open the inner sterile package 
to use TachoSil soon after opening the outer aluminium cover. 
to use TachoSil immediately after opening the inner sterile package. 
Instructions 
Use TachoSil under sterile conditions only. 
Find out which size of TachoSil is needed. The size of the sealant matrix depends on the size of the 
wound. But please note that the matrix should cover 1-2 cm beyond the margins of the wound. If more 
than one matrix is needed, they should overlap. For smaller wounds, e.g., in minimally invasive 
surgery, the smaller sizes (4.8 x 4.8 cm or 3.0 x 2.5 cm) or the pre-rolled TachoSil (4.8 cm x 4.8 cm) is 
recommended. TachoSil can be cut to the appropriate size and shaped to fit the wound. 
1.  Wipe the wound surface gently before placing TachoSil on the wound. Strong (pulsating) 
bleeding should be stopped surgically. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
Open the inner sterile package and remove the matrix. Pre-moisten the flat TachoSil matrix in 
saline solution and place it on the wound immediately (if the wound is completely wetted by 
blood and other fluids, there is no need to moisten the matrix before application). The pre-rolled 
TachoSil should not be pre-moistened before passing through the trocar or port. 
Cleanse surgical instruments, gloves, and adjacent tissues, if necessary. TachoSil may stick to 
surgical instruments, or gloves or adjacent tissues covered with blood. It is important to note 
that failure to adequately clean adjacent tissues may cause adhesions. 
If a trocar is used for getting access to the wound, the inside of the trocar should be dry. It is 
recommended to remove the top part of the trocar prior to passing the pre-rolled TachoSil 
through the trocar. 
Place the yellow, active side of TachoSil against the wound. Hold down TachoSil with a gentle 
pressure for 3-5 minutes. Use a moistened glove or a moist pad to keep TachoSil in place. For 
minimally invasive surgery, the pre-rolled matrix can be un-rolled with instruments at the site of 
application. The un-rolled TachoSil should then be moistened at the site of application with a 
moist pad and held in place under gentle pressure for 3-5 minutes. 
Remove the light pressure carefully after 3-5 minutes. To make sure that TachoSil does not 
cling to the moistened glove or swab, and loosens itself from the wound, TachoSil can be held 
down at one end e.g., by using a pair of forceps. There is no residual product which needs to be 
removed; the entire matrix is dissolved (resorbed) – however, some cases of product residue 
have been reported that might have caused a foreign-body reaction in the form of granuloma. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
