Summary of Risk Management Plan for Tadalafil Mylan (Tadalafil) 
This  is  a summary of the risk management plan  (RMP) for Tadalafil Mylan. The RMP details 
important risks of tadalafil, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be 
obtained about tadalafil's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Tadalafil  Mylan’s  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Tadalafil Mylan should be read in the context of all the information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Tadalafil 
Mylan’s RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Tadalafil  Mylan  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction  in  adult  males  and  for 
treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia in adult males. It contains 
tadalafil as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Tadalafil Mylan’s benefits can be found in Tadalafil 
Mylan’s EPAR, including its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/tadalafil-mylan.  
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further Characterise 
the Risks 
Important risks of Tadalafil Mylan together with measures to minimise such risks, are outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  Information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Tadalafil Mylan are those risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered 
to/taken by patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Tadalafil Mylan. Potential 
risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on 
available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient 
populations etc.) 
Summary of safety concerns 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important Identified Risks  None 
Important Potential Risks  None 
Missing Information 
None 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Tadalafil Mylan. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Tadalafil Mylan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
