Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Bioequivalence (BE) is required for the conclusion that efficacy and safety are similar to those of the 
reference medicinal product for a medicinal product with a marketing authorisation or marketing 
authorisation application under Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Micro Therapeutic Research Labs Ltd is a contract research organisation (CRO) which conducts the 
analytical and clinical parts of bioequivalence studies, some of which have been used to support 
marketing authorisation applications of medicines in the EU.  
Critical findings were identified following inspections to check compliance with Good clinical practice 
(GCP) by the Austrian Federal Office for Safety in Healthcare (BASG) and the Health Care Inspectorate 
of the Netherlands (IGZ) in February 2016 at Micro Therapeutic Research Labs Pvt. Ltd, Chennai, 
India.  
In addition, a study performed at the Micro Therapeutic Research Labs Pvt. Ltd site in Coimbatore was 
inspected. Both the Chennai site and the Coimbatore site follow the same provisions.  
In view of the critical inspection findings and the necessity to protect public health in the EU, several 
Member States considered that it is in the interest of the Union to refer the matter to the CHMP and 
request that it assesses the impact of the findings mentioned above on the benefit-risk balance of the 
medicinal products which have been authorised by the Member States on the basis of relevant trials 
performed at these sites between June 2012 and June 2016 and also that of pending marketing 
authorisation applications (MAA) that include such studies.  
The CHMP was requested in particular to provide its opinion under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC 
as to whether marketing authorisations of these products should be maintained, varied, suspended, or 
revoked and whether marketing authorisations applications should be authorised. 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation 
The findings of the Austrian and Dutch inspections raise serious concerns relating to the suitability of 
the quality management system in place at Micro Therapeutics Research LTd, India. Data from 
bioequivalence studies submitted to the Competent Authorities to demonstrate bioequivalence of 
medicinal products with their originator is considered unreliable. Therefore, for those products 
bioequivalence is not established. 
Based on the submitted data during the procedure, the medicinal products Tadalafil Mylan 2.5 mg, 5 
mg, 10 mg and 20 mg; Paracetamol DAWA 1000 mg film-coated tablets; Memantine Pharmascope 10 
mg and 20 mg; Memantine DAWA 10 mg and 20 mg; Morysa 10 mg and 20 mg – SVUS Pharma a.s.; 
Bendroflumetiazid Alternova 2.5 mg and 5 mg tablets; the CHMP concluded that bioequivalence has 
been demonstrated vis-à-vis the EU reference medicinal product and recommended the maintenance 
of these marketing authorisations. For the Hydrokortison Alternova (Orifarm) and Hydrokortison BBS 
marketing authorisation applications, the CHMP concluded that the Member State(s) will have to 
consider whether the bridging between the proposed product and the medicinal products described in 
the literature as par Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC is sufficiently established as the applications 
relate to Article 10a of Directive 2001/83/EC (‘Well-established use’). 
In the absence of the demonstration of bioequivalence vis-à-vis the EU reference medicinal product, 
the requirements of Article 10 of Directive 2001/83/EC cannot be considered fulfilled, the efficacy and 
safety of the concerned medicinal products cannot be established, hence the benefit-risk balance 
cannot be considered positive. The CHMP therefore recommended the suspension of the marketing 
authorisations for all remaining medicinal products concerned by this referral procedure, as 
bioequivalence vis-à-vis the EU reference medicinal products has not been demonstrated.  
 
 
Furthermore, the Committee recommends that the concerned marketing authorisations should be 
suspended unless the medicinal product is considered critical by the relevant national competent 
authorities.  
An authorised medicinal product may be considered critical by the EU Member States based on the 
evaluation of the potential unmet medical need, considering the availability of suitable alternative 
medicinal products in the respective EU Member States and, as appropriate, the nature of the disease 
to be treated.  
For marketing authorisations of a medicinal product considered critical, the suspension may be 
deferred in the relevant EU Member States for a period which shall not exceed twenty-four (24) 
months from the Commission Decision. Should during this period the EU Member State(s) consider a 
medicinal product not critical anymore, the suspension of the concerned marketing authorisation shall 
apply.  
For all other marketing authorisation applications subject to this referral the CHMP considers that the 
applicants did not submit information which allows establishing bioequivalence to the EU reference 
medicinal product, and therefore the marketing authorisation applications do not currently fulfil the 
criteria for authorisation. 
Grounds for CHMP opinion 
Whereas, 
• 
• 
• 
The Committee considered the procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC for marketing 
authorisations and marketing authorisation applications for medicinal products for which the clinical 
and/or bioanalytical parts of the bioequivalence studies were performed at Micro Therapeutic 
Research Labs Limited during the period between June 2012 and June 2016; 
The Committee reviewed all available data and information provided by the MAHs/applicants, as 
well as information provided by Micro Therapeutic Research Labs Limited; 
The Committee concluded that the particulars supporting the marketing authorisations and 
marketing authorisation applications are incorrect and that the benefit-risk balance is considered 
not favourable for: 
−  Authorised medicinal products for which alternative data or a justification was submitted but 
considered insufficient by the CHMP to establish bioequivalence vis-à-vis the EU reference 
medicinal product;  
−  Marketing authorisation applications for which no alternative data or a justification was 
submitted. 
• 
The Committee concluded that, for both marketing authorisations and marketing authorisation 
applications where there was alternative data to establish bioequivalence vis-à-vis the EU reference 
medicinal product the benefit-risk balance is considered favourable.  
Therefore, in accordance with Articles 31 and 32 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the CHMP concludes that:  
a.  Marketing authorisations for medicinal products for which bioequivalence data or justification 
were not submitted or considered insufficient by the CHMP to establish bioequivalence vis-à-vis 
the EU reference medicinal product should be suspended, as the particulars supporting the 
marketing authorisations are incorrect and the benefit-risk balance of these marketing 
authorisation is considered not favourable pursuant to Article 116 of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
 
 
 
Some of these authorised medicinal products may be considered critical by the individual EU 
Member States on the evaluation of the potential unmet medical need, considering the 
availability of suitable alternative medicinal products in the respective EU Member State(s) and, 
as appropriate, the nature of the disease to be treated. Where on the basis of these criteria the 
relevant national competent authorities of the EU Member States consider that a medicinal 
product is critical, the suspension of the concerned marketing authorisation(s) may be deferred 
by the period for which the medicinal product is considered critical. This period of deferral shall 
not exceed twenty-four months from the Commission Decision. Should during this period the EU 
Member State(s) consider a medicinal product not critical anymore, the suspension of the 
concerned marketing authorisation(s) shall apply. For these medicinal products considered 
critical by EU Member State(s), the marketing authorisations holders shall submit a 
bioequivalence study conducted vis-à-vis the EU Reference Medicinal Product within 12 months 
from the Commission Decision. 
For the suspension of the marketing authorisations to be lifted the MAH shall demonstrate 
bioequivalence data vis-à-vis a valid EU reference medicinal product based on relevant data, in 
accordance with the requirements of Article 10 of Directive 2001/83/EC (e.g. a bioequivalence 
study conducted vis-à-vis the EU reference medicinal product).  
b.  Marketing authorisation applications for which data or justification were not submitted or 
considered insufficient by the CHMP to establish bioequivalence vis-à-vis the EU reference 
medicinal product do not satisfy the criteria for authorisation, as the particulars supporting the 
marketing authorisations are incorrect and the benefit-risk balance of these marketing 
authorisation is considered not favourable pursuant to Article 26 of Directive 2001/83/EC.  
c.  Marketing authorisations for medicinal products for which the bioequivalence vis-à-vis the EU 
reference medicinal product has been established should be maintained, as the benefit risk 
balance of these marketing authorisation is considered favourable.  
d.  Bioequivalence vis-à-vis a valid EU reference medicinal product has been established for 
marketing authorisation applications listed in Annex Ia of the CHMP Opinion. 
 
 
 
 
