ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tafinlar 50 mg hard capsules 
Tafinlar 75 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Tafinlar 50 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains dabrafenib mesilate equivalent to 50 mg of dabrafenib. 
Tafinlar 75 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains dabrafenib mesilate equivalent to 75 mg of dabrafenib. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule (capsule). 
Tafinlar 50 mg hard capsules 
Opaque dark red capsules, approximately 18 mm long, with capsule shell imprinted with “GS TEW” 
and “50 mg”. 
Tafinlar 75 mg hard capsules 
Opaque dark pink capsules, approximately 19 mm long, with capsule shell imprinted with “GS LHF” 
and “75 mg”. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Melanoma 
Dabrafenib as monotherapy or in combination with trametinib is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation (see sections 4.4 
and 5.1). 
Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
Dabrafenib in combination with trametinib is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients 
with Stage III melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation, following complete resection. 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
Dabrafenib in combination with trametinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer with a BRAF V600 mutation. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with dabrafenib should be initiated and supervised by a qualified physician experienced in 
the use of anticancer medicinal products. 
Before taking dabrafenib, patients must have confirmation of tumour BRAF V600 mutation using a 
validated test. 
The efficacy and safety of dabrafenib have not been established in patients with wild-type BRAF 
melanoma or wild-type BRAF NSCLC. Dabrafenib should therefore not be used in patients with 
wild-type BRAF melanoma or wild-type BRAF NSCLC (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Posology 
The recommended dose of dabrafenib, either used as monotherapy or in combination with trametinib, 
is 150 mg (two 75 mg capsules) twice daily (corresponding to a total daily dose of 300 mg). The 
recommended dose of trametinib, when used in combination with dabrafenib, is 2 mg once daily. 
Duration of treatment 
Treatment should continue until the patient no longer derives benefit or the development of 
unacceptable toxicity (see Table 2). In the adjuvant melanoma setting, patients should be treated for a 
period of 12 months unless there is disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity. 
Missed doses 
If a dose of dabrafenib is missed, it should not be taken if it is less than 6 hours until the next 
scheduled dose. 
If a dose of trametinib is missed, when dabrafenib is given in combination with trametinib, the dose of 
trametinib should only be taken if it is more than 12 hours until the next scheduled dose. 
Dose modification 
Two dabrafenib capsule strengths, 50 mg and 75 mg, are available to effectively manage dose 
modification requirements. 
The management of adverse reactions may require treatment interruption, dose reduction, or treatment 
discontinuation (see Tables 1 and 2). 
Dose modifications or interruptions are not recommended for adverse reactions of cutaneous 
squamous cell carcinoma (cuSCC) or new primary melanoma (see section 4.4). 
No dose modifications are required for uveitis as long as effective local therapies can control ocular 
inflammation. If uveitis does not respond to local ocular therapy, withhold dabrafenib until resolution 
of ocular inflammation and then restart dabrafenib reduced by one dose level (see section 4.4). 
Recommended dose level reductions and recommendations for dose modifications are provided in 
Tables 1 and 2, respectively. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Recommended dose level reductions 
Dose level 
Starting dose 
1st dose reduction 
2nd dose reduction 
Dabrafenib dose 
Used as monotherapy or in 
combination with trametinib 
150 mg twice daily 
100 mg twice daily 
75 mg twice daily 
Trametinib dose* 
Only when used in combination with 
dabrafenib 
2 mg once daily 
1.5 mg once daily 
1 mg once daily 
50 mg twice daily 
1 mg once daily 
3rd dose reduction 
Dose adjustment for dabrafenib below 50 mg twice daily is not recommended, whether used as 
monotherapy or in combination with trametinib. Dose adjustment for trametinib below 1 mg once 
daily is not recommended, when used in combination with dabrafenib. 
*For dosing instructions for treatment with trametinib monotherapy, see trametinib SmPC, Posology 
and Method of administration. 
Table 2 
Dose modification schedule based on the grade of any adverse events (AE) (excluding 
pyrexia) 
Grade (CTC-AE)* 
Grade 1 or Grade 2 
(Tolerable) 
Grade 2 (Intolerable) or 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Recommended dabrafenib dose modifications 
Used as monotherapy or in combination with trametinib 
Continue treatment and monitor as clinically indicated. 
Interrupt therapy until toxicity is Grade 0 to 1 and reduce by one dose 
level when resuming therapy. 
Discontinue permanently, or interrupt therapy until Grade 0 to 1 and 
reduce by one dose level when resuming therapy. 
* The intensity of clinical adverse events graded by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse 
Events (CTC-AE) v4.0 
When an individual’s adverse reactions are under effective management, dose re-escalation following 
the same dosing steps as de-escalation may be considered. The dabrafenib dose should not exceed 
150 mg twice daily. 
Pyrexia 
If a patient’s temperature is ≥38oC therapy should be interrupted (dabrafenib when used as 
monotherapy, and both dabrafenib and trametinib when used in combination). In case of recurrence, 
therapy can also be interrupted at the first symptom of pyrexia. Treatment with anti-pyretics such as 
ibuprofen or acetaminophen/paracetamol should be initiated. The use of oral corticosteroids should be 
considered in those instances in which anti-pyretics are insufficient. Patients should be evaluated for 
signs and symptoms of infection and if necessary treated in line with local practice (see section 4.4). 
Dabrafenib, or both dabrafenib and trametinib when used in combination, should be restarted if the 
patient is symptom free for at least 24 hours, either 1) at the same dose level, or 2) reduced by one 
dose level if the pyrexia is recurrent and/or was accompanied by other severe symptoms including 
dehydration, hypotension or renal failure. 
If treatment-related toxicities occur when dabrafenib is used in combination with trametinib, then both 
treatments should be simultaneously dose reduced, interrupted or discontinued. Exceptions where dose 
modifications are necessary for only one of the two treatments are detailed below for uveitis, RAS 
mutation positive non-cutaneous malignancies (primarily related to dabrafenib), left ventricular 
ejection fraction (LVEF) reduction, retinal vein occlusion (RVO), retinal pigment epithelial 
detachment (RPED) and interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis (primarily related to trametinib). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose modification exceptions (where only one of the two therapies is dose reduced) for selected 
adverse reactions 
Uveitis 
No dose modifications are required for uveitis as long as effective local therapies can control ocular 
inflammation. If uveitis does not respond to local ocular therapy, dabrafenib should be withheld until 
resolution of ocular inflammation and then dabrafenib should be restarted reduced by one dose level. 
No dose modification of trametinib is required when taken in combination with dabrafenib (see 
section 4.4). 
RAS-mutation-positive non-cutaneous malignancies 
The benefits and risks should be considered before continuing treatment with dabrafenib in patients 
with a non-cutaneous malignancy that has a RAS mutation. No dose modification of trametinib is 
required when taken in combination with dabrafenib. 
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) reduction/Left ventricular dysfunction 
If dabrafenib is being used in combination with trametinib and absolute decrease of >10% in LVEF 
compared to baseline and the ejection fraction is below the institution’s lower limit of normal (LLN), 
please refer to the trametinib SmPC (see section 4.2) for dose modification instructions for trametinib. 
No dose modification of dabrafenib is required when taken in combination with trametinib. 
Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) and Retinal pigment epithelial detachment (RPED) 
If patients report new visual disturbances such as diminished central vision, blurred vision, or loss of 
vision at any time while on combination therapy with dabrafenib and trametinib, please refer to the 
trametinib SmPC (see section 4.2) for dose modification instructions for trametinib. No dose 
modification of dabrafenib is required when taken in combination with trametinib for confirmed cases 
of RVO or RPED. 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/Pneumonitis 
In patients treated with dabrafenib in combination with trametinib with suspected ILD or pneumonitis, 
including patients presenting with new or progressive pulmonary symptoms and findings including 
cough, dyspnoea, hypoxia, pleural effusion, or infiltrates, pending clinical investigations, please refer 
to the trametinib SmPC (see section 4.2) for dose modification instructions for trametinib. No dose 
modification of dabrafenib is required when taken in combination with trametinib for cases of ILD or 
pneumonitis. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. There are no 
clinical data in subjects with severe renal impairment and the potential need for dose adjustment 
cannot be determined (see section 5.2). Dabrafenib should be used with caution in patients with severe 
renal impairment when administered as monotherapy or in combination with trametinib. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild hepatic impairment. There are no clinical data in 
subjects with moderate to severe hepatic impairment and the potential need for dose adjustment cannot 
be determined (see section 5.2). Hepatic metabolism and biliary secretion are the primary routes of 
elimination of dabrafenib and its metabolites and patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment 
may have increased exposure. Dabrafenib should be used with caution in patients with moderate or 
severe hepatic impairment when administered as monotherapy or in combination with trametinib. 
Special populations 
Non-Caucasian patients 
Limited safety and efficacy data have been collected on dabrafenib in non-Caucasian patients. The 
population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of 
dabrafenib between Asian and Caucasian patients. No dabrafenib dose adjustment is needed in Asian 
patients. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
No adjustment of the initial dose is required in patients >65 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of dabrafenib in children and adolescents (<18 years) have not yet been 
established. No clinical data are available. Studies in juvenile animals have shown adverse effects of 
dabrafenib which had not been observed in adult animals (see section 5.3). 
Method of administration 
Tafinlar is for oral use. The capsules are to be swallowed whole with water. They should not be 
chewed or opened and should not be mixed with food or liquids due to chemical instability of 
dabrafenib. 
It is recommended that the doses of dabrafenib be taken at similar times every day, leaving an interval 
of approximately 12 hours between doses. When dabrafenib and trametinib are taken in combination, 
the once-daily dose of trametinib should be taken at the same time each day with either the morning 
dose or the evening dose of dabrafenib. 
Dabrafenib should be taken at least one hour before, or at least 2 hours after a meal. 
If a patient vomits after taking dabrafenib, the patient should not retake the dose and should take the 
next scheduled dose. 
Please refer to trametinib SmPC for information on method of administration when given in 
combination with dabrafenib. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
When dabrafenib is given in combination with trametinib, the SmPC of trametinib must be consulted 
prior to intiation of combination treatment. For additional information on warnings and precautions 
associated with trametinib treatment, please refer to the trametinib SmPC. 
BRAF V600 testing 
The efficacy and safety of dabrafenib have not been established in patients with wild-type BRAF 
melanoma or wild-type BRAF NSCLC therefore dabrafenib should not be used in patients with 
wild-type BRAF melanoma or wild-type BRAF NSCLC (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Dabrafenib in combination with trametinib in patients with melanoma who have progressed on a 
BRAF inhibitor 
There are limited data in patients taking the combination of dabrafenib with trametinib who have 
progressed on a prior BRAF inhibitor. These data show that the efficacy of the combination will be 
lower in these patients (see section 5.1). Therefore, other treatment options should be considered 
before treatment with the combination in this prior BRAF inhibitor treated population. The sequencing 
of treatments following progression on a BRAF inhibitor therapy has not been established. 
New malignancies 
New malignancies, cutaneous and non-cutaneous, can occur when dabrafenib is used as monotherapy 
or in combination with trametinib. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cutaneous malignancies 
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cuSCC) 
Cases of cuSCC (including keratoacanthoma) have been reported in patients treated with dabrafenib 
alone and in combination with trametinib (see section 4.8). In the Phase III clinical trials MEK115306 
and MEK116513 in patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma, cuSCC occurred in 10% 
(22/211) of patients receiving dabrafenib as a monotherapy and in 18% (63/349) of patients receiving 
vemurafenib as a monotherapy, respectively. In the integrated safety population of patients with 
melanoma and advanced NSCLC, cuSCC occurred in 2% (19/1076) of patients receiving dabrafenib in 
combination with trametinib. The median time to diagnosis of the first occurrence of cuSCC in study 
MEK115306 was 223 days (range 56 to 510 days) in the combination therapy arm and 60 days (range 
9 to 653 days) in the dabrafenib monotherapy arm. In the Phase III study BRF115532 (COMBI-AD) 
in the adjuvant treatment of melanoma, 1% (6/435) of patients receiving dabrafenib in combination 
with trametinib as compared to 1% (5/432) of patients receiving placebo developed cuSCC. The 
median time to onset of the first occurrence of cuSCC in the combination arm of the adjuvant 
treatment study was approximately 18 weeks and was 33 weeks in the placebo arm. 
It is recommended that skin examination be performed prior to initiation of therapy with dabrafenib 
and monthly throughout treatment and for up to six months after treatment for cuSCC. Monitoring 
should continue for 6 months following discontinuation of dabrafenib or until initiation of another 
anti-neoplastic therapy. 
Cases of cuSCC should be managed by dermatological excision and dabrafenib treatment or, if taken 
in combination, dabrafenib and trametinib should be continued without any dose adjustment. Patients 
should be instructed to immediately inform their physician if new lesions develop. 
New primary melanoma 
New primary melanomas have been reported in clinical trials in patients treated with dabrafenib. In 
clinical trials in unresectable or metastatic melanoma,these cases were identified within the first 
5 months of dabrafenib as monotherapy. Cases of new primary melanoma can be managed with 
excision and do not require treatment modification. Monitoring for skin lesions should occur as 
described for cuSCC. 
Non-cutaneous malignancies 
In vitro experiments have demonstrated paradoxical activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase 
(MAP kinase) signalling in BRAF wild-type cells with RAS mutations when exposed to BRAF 
inhibitors. This may lead to increased risk of non-cutaneous malignancies with dabrafenib exposure 
(see section 4.8) when RAS mutations are present. RAS-associated malignancies have been reported 
in clinical trials, both with another BRAF inhibitor (chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia and 
non-cutaneous SCC of the head and neck) as well as with dabrafenib monotherapy (pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma, bile duct adenocarcinoma) and with dabrafenib in combination with the MEK 
inhibitor, trametinib (colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer). 
Prior to initiation of treatment patients should undergo a head and neck examination with minimally 
visual inspection of oral mucosa and lymph node palpation, as well as chest/abdomen computerised 
tomography (CT) scan. During treatment patients should be monitored as clinically appropriate which 
may include a head and neck examination every 3 months and a chest/abdomen CT scan every 
6 months. Anal examinations and pelvic examinations are recommended before and at the end of 
treatment or when considered clinically indicated. Complete blood cell counts and blood chemistry 
should be performed as clinically indicated. 
The benefits and risks should be considered before administering dabrafenib in patients with a prior or 
concurrent cancer associated with RAS mutations. No dose modification of trametinib is required 
when taken in combination with dabrafenib. 
Following discontinuation of dabrafenib, monitoring for non-cutaneous secondary/recurrent 
malignancies should continue for up to 6 months or until initiation of another anti-neoplastic therapy. 
Abnormal findings should be managed according to clinical practices. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haemorrhage 
Haemorrhagic events, including major haemorrhagic and fatal haemorrhages, have occurred in 
patients taking the combination of dabrafenib with trametinib (see section 4.8). Please refer to the 
trametinib SmPC (see section 4.4) for additional information. 
Visual impairment 
In clinical trials ophthalmologic reactions, including uveitis, iridocyclitis and iritis, have been reported 
in patients treated with dabrafenib as monotherapy and in combination with trametinib. Patients should 
be routinely monitored for visual signs and symptoms (such as change in vision, photophobia and eye 
pain) while on therapy. 
No dose modifications are required as long as effective local therapies can control ocular 
inflammation. If uveitis does not respond to local ocular therapy, withhold dabrafenib until resolution 
of ocular inflammation and then restart dabrafenib reduced by one dose level. No dose modification of 
trametinib is required when taken in combination with dabrafenib following diagnosis of uveitis. 
RPED and RVO may occur with dabrafenib in combination with trametinib. Please refer to the 
trametinib SmPC (see section 4.4). No dose modification of dabrafenib is required when taken in 
combination with trametinib following diagnosis of RVO or RPED. 
Pyrexia 
Fever has been reported in clinical trials with dabrafenib as monotherapy and in combination with 
trametinib (see section 4.8). In 1% of patients in clinical trials with dabrafenib monotherapy, serious 
non-infectious febrile events were identified defined as fever accompanied by severe rigors, 
dehydration, hypotension and/or acute renal insufficiency of pre-renal origin in subjects with normal 
baseline renal function (see section 4.8). The onset of these serious non-infectious febrile events was 
typically within the first month of dabrafenib as monotherapy. Patients with serious non-infectious 
febrile events responded well to dose interruption and/or dose reduction and supportive care. 
The incidence and severity of pyrexia are increased with combination therapy. In the combination 
therapy arm of study MEK115306 in patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma, pyrexia was 
reported in 57% (119/209) of patients with 7% Grade 3, as compared to the dabrafenib monotherapy 
arm with 33% (69/211) of patients reporting pyrexia, 2% Grade 3. In the Phase II study BRF113928 in 
patients with advanced NSCLC the incidence and severity of pyrexia were increased slightly when 
dabrafenib was used in combination with trametinib (48%, 3% Grade 3) as compared to dabrafenib 
monotherapy (39%, 2% Grade 3). In the Phase III study BRF115532 in the adjuvant treatment of 
melanoma, the incidence and severity of pyrexia were higher in the dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib arm (67%; 6% Grade 3/4) as compared to the placebo arm (15%; <1% Grade 3). 
For patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma who received dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib and developed pyrexia, approximately half of the first occurrences of pyrexia happened 
within the first month of therapy and approximately one-third of the patients had 3 or more events. 
Therapy (dabrafenib when used as monotherapy, and both dabrafenib and trametinib when used in 
combination) should be interrupted if the patient’s temperature is ≥38ºC (see section 5.1). In case of 
recurrence, therapy can also be interrupted at the first symptom of pyrexia. Treatment with anti 
pyretics such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen/paracetamol should be initiated. The use of oral 
corticosteroids should be considered in those instances in which anti-pyretics are insufficient. Patients 
should be evaluated for signs and symptoms of infection. Therapy can be restarted once the fever 
resolves. If fever is associated with other severe signs or symptoms, therapy should be restarted at a 
reduced dose once fever resolves and as clinically appropriate (see section 4.2). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LVEF reduction/Left ventricular dysfunction 
Dabrafenib in combination with trametinib has been reported to decrease LVEF (see section 4.8). 
Please refer to the trametinib SmPC for additional information (see section 4.4). No dose modification 
of dabrafenib is required when taken in combination with trametinib. 
Renal failure 
Renal failure has been identified in <1% of patients treated with dabrafenib alone and in ≤1% of 
patients treated with dabrafenib in combination with trametinib. Observed cases were generally 
associated with pyrexia and dehydration and responded well to dose interruption and general 
supportive measures. Granulomatous nephritis has been reported (see section 4.8). Patients should be 
routinely monitored for serum creatinine while on therapy. If creatinine increases, dabrafenib may 
need to be interrupted as clinically appropriate. Dabrafenib has not been studied in patients with renal 
insufficiency (defined as creatinine >1.5 x ULN) therefore caution should be used in this setting (see 
section 5.2). 
Hepatic events 
Hepatic adverse events have been reported in clinical trials with dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib (see section 4.8). It is recommended that patients receiving treatment with dabrafenib in 
combination with trametinib have liver function monitored every four weeks for 6 months after 
treatment initiation with trametinib. Liver monitoring may be continued thereafter as clinically 
indicated. Please refer to the trametinib SmPC for additional information. 
Hypertension 
Elevations in blood pressure have been reported in association with dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib, in patients with or without pre-existing hypertension (see section 4.8). Please refer to the 
trametinib SmPC for additional information. 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/Pneumonitis 
Cases of pneumonitis or ILD have been reported in clinical trials with dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib. Please refer to the trametinib SmPC section 4.4 for additional information. If dabrafenib is 
being used in combination with trametinib then therapy with dabrafenib may be continued at the same 
dose. 
Rash 
Rash has been observed in about 24% of patients in clinical trials when dabrafenib is used in 
combination with trametinib (see section 4.8). The majority of these cases were Grade 1 or 2 and did 
not require any dose interruptions or dose reductions. Please refer to the trametinib SmPC section 4.4 
for additional information. 
Rhabdomyolysis 
Rhabdomyolysis has been reported in patients taking dabrafenib in combination with trametinib (see 
section 4.8). Please refer to the trametinib SmPC section 4.4 for additional information. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pancreatitis 
Pancreatitis has been reported in <1% of patients treated with dabrafenib as monotherapy and in 
combination with trametinib in unresectable or metastatic melanoma clinical trials and about 4% of 
patients treated with dabrafenib in combination with trametinib in the NSCLC clinical trial. One of the 
events occurred on the first day of dabrafenib dosing of a metastatic melanoma patient and recurred 
following re-challenge at a reduced dose. In the adjuvant treatment of melanoma trial, pancreatitis was 
reported in <1% (1/435) of patients receiving dabrafenib in combination with trametinib, and no 
patients receiving placebo. Unexplained abdominal pain should be promptly investigated to include 
measurement of serum amylase and lipase. Patients should be closely monitored when re-starting 
dabrafenib after an episode of pancreatitis. 
Deep vein thrombosis/Pulmonary embolism 
Pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis can occur when dabrafenib is used in combination with 
trametinib. If patients develop symptoms of pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis such as 
shortness of breath, chest pain, or arm or leg swelling, they should immediately seek medical care. 
Permanently discontinue trametinib and dabrafenib for life-threatening pulmonary embolism. 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions 
Cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), which can be life-threatening or fatal, 
have been reported during treatment with dabrafenib/trametinib combination therapy. Before initiating 
treatment, patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin 
reactions. If signs and symptoms suggestive of SCARs appear, dabrafenib and trametinib should be 
withdrawn. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Colitis and gastrointestinal perforation, including fatal outcome, have been reported in patients taking 
dabrafenib in combination with trametinib (see section 4.8). Please refer to the trametinib SmPC for 
additional information (see section 4.4). 
Sarcoidosis 
Cases of sarcoidosis have been reported in patients treated with dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib, mostly involving the skin, lung, eye and lymph nodes. In the majority of the cases, 
treatment with dabrafenib and trametinib was maintained. In case of a diagnosis of sarcoidosis, 
relevant treatment should be considered. It is important not to misinterpret sarcoidosis as disease 
progression. 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
In post-marketing experience, haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) has been observed in 
patients treated with dabrafenib in combination with trametinib. Caution should be taken when 
dabrafenib is administered in combination with trametinib. If HLH is confirmed, administration of 
dabrafenib and trametinib should be discontinued and treatment for HLH initiated. 
Effects of other medicinal products on dabrafenib 
Dabrafenib is a substrate of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4. Potent inducers of these enzymes should be 
avoided when possible as these agents may decrease the efficacy of dabrafenib (see section 4.5). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of dabrafenib on other medicinal products 
Dabrafenib is an inducer of metabolising enzymes which may lead to loss of efficacy of many 
commonly used medicinal products (see examples in section 4.5). A drug utilisation review (DUR) is 
therefore essential when initiating dabrafenib treatment. Concomitant use of dabrafenib with medicinal 
products that are sensitive substrates of certain metabolising enzymes or transporters (see section 4.5) 
should generally be avoided if monitoring for efficacy and dose adjustment is not possible. 
Concomitant administration of dabrafenib with warfarin results in decreased warfarin exposure. 
Caution should be exercised and additional International Normalised Ratio (INR) monitoring is 
recommended when dabrafenib is used concomitantly with warfarin and at discontinuation of 
dabrafenib (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of dabrafenib with digoxin may result in decreased digoxin exposure. 
Caution should be exercised and additional monitoring of digoxin is recommended when digoxin (a 
transporter substrate) is used concomitantly with dabrafenib and at discontinuation of dabrafenib (see 
section 4.5). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effect of other medicinal products on dabrafenib 
Dabrafenib is a substrate for the metabolising enzymes CYP2C8 and CYP3A4, while the active 
metabolites hydroxy-dabrafenib and desmethyl-dabrafenib are CYP3A4 substrates. Medicinal 
products that are strong inhibitors or inducers of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 are therefore likely to increase 
or decrease, respectively, dabrafenib concentrations. Alternative agents should be considered during 
administration with dabrafenib when possible. Use caution if strong inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, 
gemfibrozil, nefazodone, clarithromycin, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, itraconazole, 
voriconazole, posaconazole, atazanavir) are co-administered with dabrafenib. Avoid co-administration 
of dabrafenib with potent inducers (e.g. rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, or St 
John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum)) of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4. 
Administration of ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor) 400 mg once daily, with dabrafenib 75 mg 
twice daily, resulted in a 71% increase in dabrafenib AUC and a 33% increase in dabrafenib Cmax 
relative to administration of dabrafenib 75 mg twice daily alone. Co-administration resulted in 
increases in hydroxy- and desmethyl-dabrafenib AUC (increases of 82% and 68%, respectively). A 
decrease of 16% in AUC was noted for carboxy-dabrafenib. 
Administration of gemfibrozil (a CYP2C8 inhibitor) 600 mg twice daily, with dabrafenib 75 mg twice 
daily, resulted in a 47% increase in dabrafenib AUC but did not alter dabrafenib Cmax relative to 
administration of dabrafenib 75 mg twice daily alone. Gemfibrozil had no clinically relevant effect on 
the systemic exposure to dabrafenib metabolites (≤13%). 
Administration of rifampin (a CYP3A4/CYP2C8 inducer) 600 mg once daily with dabrafenib 150 mg 
twice daily resulted in a decrease in repeat dose dabrafenib Cmax (27%) and AUC (34%). No relevant 
change in AUC was noted for hydroxy-dabrafenib. There was an increase in AUC of 73% for 
carboxy-dabrafenib and a decrease in AUC of 30% for desmethyl-dabrafenib. 
Co-administration of repeat doses of dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily and the pH-elevating agent 
rabeprazole 40 mg once daily resulted in a 3% increase in AUC and a 12% decrease in dabrafenib 
Cmax. These changes in dabrafenib AUC and Cmax are considered not clinically meaningful. Medicinal 
products that alter the pH of the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract (e.g. proton pump inhibitors, 
H2-receptor antagonists, antacids) are not expected to reduce the bioavailability of dabrafenib. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of dabrafenib on other medicinal products 
Dabrafenib is an enzyme inducer and increases the synthesis of drug-metabolising enzymes including 
CYP3A4, CYP2Cs and CYP2B6 and may increase the synthesis of transporters. This results in 
reduced plasma levels of medicinal products metabolised by these enzymes, and may affect some 
transported medicinal products. The reduction in plasma concentrations can lead to lost or reduced 
clinical effect of these medicinal products. There is also a risk of increased formation of active 
metabolites of these medicinal products. Enzymes that may be induced include CYP3A in the liver 
and gut, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and UGTs (glucuronide conjugating enzymes). The 
transport protein Pgp may also be induced as well as other transporters, e.g. MRP-2. Induction of 
OATP1B1/1B3 and BCRP is not likely based on the observations from a clinical study with 
rosuvastatin. 
In vitro, dabrafenib produced dose-dependent increases in CYP2B6 and CYP3A4. In a clinical drug 
interaction study, Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (a CYP3A4 substrate) decreased by 47% and 65%, 
respectively with co-administration of repeat-dose dabrafenib. 
Administration of dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily and warfarin resulted in a decrease in AUC of S- and 
R- warfarin of 37% and 33%, respectively, compared to administration of warfarin alone. Cmax of 
S- and R-warfarin increased 18% and 19%. 
Interactions with many medicinal products eliminated through metabolism or active transport is 
expected. If their therapeutic effect is of large importance to the patient, and dose adjustments are not 
easily performed based on monitoring of efficacy or plasma concentrations, these medicinal products 
are to be avoided or used with caution. The risk for liver injury after paracetamol administration is 
suspected to be higher in patients concomitantly treated with enzyme inducers. 
The number of affected medicinal products is expected to be large; although the magnitude of the 
interaction will vary. Groups of medicinal products that can be affected include, but are not limited to: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Analgesics (e.g. fentanyl, methadone) 
Antibiotics (e.g. clarithromycin, doxycycline) 
Anticancer agents (e.g. cabazitaxel) 
Anticoagulants (e.g. acenocoumarol, warfarin, see section 4.4) 
Antiepileptic (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin, primidone, valproic acid) 
Antipsychotics (e.g. haloperidol) 
Calcium channel blockers (e.g. diltiazem, felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil) 
Cardiac glycosides (e.g. digoxin, see section 4.4) 
Corticosteroids (e.g. dexamethasone, methylprednisolone) 
HIV antivirals (e.g. amprenavir, atazanavir, darunavir, delavirdine, efavirenz, fosamprenavir, 
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, saquinavir, tipranavir) 
Hormonal contraceptives (see section 4.6) 
Hypnotics (e.g. diazepam, midazolam, zolpidem) 
Immunosuppressants (e.g. cyclosporin, tacrolimus, sirolimus) 
Statins metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. atorvastatin, simvastatin) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Onset of induction is likely to occur after 3 days of repeat dosing with dabrafenib. Upon 
discontinuation of dabrafenib offset of induction is gradual, concentrations of sensitive CYP3A4, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19, UDP glucuronosyl transferase (UGT) and transporter 
substrates (e.g. Pgp or MRP-2) may increase and patients should be monitored for toxicity and dose of 
these agents may need to be adjusted. 
In vitro, dabrafenib is a mechanism based inhibitor of CYP3A4. Therefore, transient inhibition of 
CYP3A4 may be observed during the first few days of treatment. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of dabrafenib on substance transport systems 
Dabrafenib is an in vitro inhibitor of human organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 
(OATP1B1), OATP1B3 and BCRP. Following co-administration of a single dose of rosuvastatin 
(OATP1B1, OATP1B3 and BCRP substrate) with repeat-dose dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily in 
16 patients, Cmax of rosuvastatin increased 2.6-fold whereas the AUC was only minimally changed 
(7% increase). The increased Cmax of rosuvastatin is unlikely to have clinical relevance. 
Combination with trametinib 
Co-administration of repeat dosing of trametinib 2 mg once daily and dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily 
resulted in no clinically meaningful changes in trametinib or dabrafenib Cmax and AUC with increases 
of 16 and 23%, respectively, in dabrafenib Cmax and AUC. A small decrease in trametinib 
bioavailability, corresponding to a decrease in AUC of 12%, was estimated when trametinib is 
administered in combination with dabrafenib, a CYP3A4 inducer, using a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis. 
When dabrafenib is used in combination with trametinib refer to the guidance for medicinal product 
interactions found in sections 4.4 and 4.5 of dabrafenib and trametinib SmPC. 
Effect of food on dabrafenib 
Patients should take dabrafenib as monotherapy or in combination with trametinib at least one hour 
prior to or two hours after a meal due to the effect of food on dabrafenib absorption (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in females 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective methods of contraception during therapy and for 
2 weeks following discontinuation of dabrafenib and 16 weeks following the last dose of trametinib 
when given in combination with dabrafenib. Dabrafenib may decrease the efficacy of oral or any 
systemic hormonal contraceptives and an effective alternative method of contraception should be used 
(see section 4.5). 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of dabrafenib in pregnant women. Animal studies have shown 
reproductive toxicity and embryo-foetal developmental toxicities, including teratogenic effects (see 
section 5.3). Dabrafenib should not be administered to pregnant women unless the potential benefit to 
the mother outweighs the possible risk to the foetus. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking 
dabrafenib, the patient should be informed of the potential hazard to the foetus. Please see trametinib 
SmPC (see section 4.6) when used in combination with trametinib. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether dabrafenib is excreted in human milk. Because many medicinal products are 
excreted in human milk, a risk to the breast-feeding child cannot be excluded. A decision should be 
made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or discontinue dabrafenib, taking into account the benefit 
of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
There are no data in humans for dabrafenib as monotherapy or in combination with trametinib. 
Dabrafenib may impair male and female fertility as adverse effects on male and female reproductive 
organs have been seen in animals (see section 5.3). Male patients taking dabrafenib as monotherapy or 
in combination with trametinib should be informed of the potential risk for impaired spermatogenesis, 
which may be irreversible. Please see trametinib SmPC (see section 4.6) when used in combination 
with trametinib. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Dabrafenib has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. The clinical status of the 
patient and the adverse reaction profile of dabrafenib should be borne in mind when considering the 
patient's ability to perform tasks that require judgement, motor or cognitive skills. Patients should be 
made aware of the potential for fatigue and eye problems to affect these activities. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of dabrafenib monotherapy is based on the integrated safety population from five clinical 
trials, BRF113683 (BREAK-3), BRF113929 (BREAK-MB), BRF113710 (BREAK-2), BRF113220, 
and BRF112680, which included 578 patients with BRAF V600 mutant unresectable or metastatic 
melanoma treated with dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily. The most common adverse reactions (incidence 
15%) reported with dabrafenib were hyperkeratosis, headache, pyrexia, arthralgia, fatigue, nausea, 
papilloma, alopecia, rash, and vomiting. 
The safety of dabrafenib in combination with trametinib has been evaluated in the integrated safety 
population of 1076 patients with BRAF V600 mutant unresectable or metastatic melanoma, Stage III 
BRAF V600 mutant melanoma following complete resection (adjuvant treatment) and advanced 
NSCLC treated with dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily and trametinib 2 mg once daily. Of these patients, 
559 were treated with the combination for BRAF V600 mutant melanoma in two randomised Phase III 
clinical trials, MEK115306 (COMBI-d) and MEK116513 (COMBI-v), 435 were treated with the 
combination in the adjuvant treatment of Stage III BRAF V600 mutant melanoma after complete 
resection in a randomised Phase III study BRF115532 (COMBI-AD) and 82 were treated with the 
combination for BRAF V600 mutant NSCLC in a multi-cohort, non-randomised Phase II study 
BRF113928 (see section 5.1). 
The most common adverse reactions (incidence 20%) for dabrafenib in combination with trametinib 
were: pyrexia, fatigue, nausea, chills, headache, diarrhoea, vomiting, arthralgia and rash. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions associated with dabrafenib obtained from clinical studies and post-marketing 
surveillance are tabulated below for dabrafenib monotherapy (Table 3) and dabrafenib in combination 
with trametinib (Table 4). Adverse drug reactions are listed below by MedDRA system organ class 
ranked by frequency using the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to 
<1/10), uncommon (1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000) and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse reactions 
Papilloma 
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma 
Seborrhoeic keratosis 
Acrochordon (skin tags) 
Basal cell carcinoma 
New primary melanoma 
Hypersensitivity 
Decreased appetite 
Hypophosphataemia 
Hyperglycaemia 
Headache 
Peripheral neuropathy (including 
sensory and motor neuropathy) 
Uveitis 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Pancreatitis 
Hyperkeratosis 
Alopecia 
Rash 
Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome 
Dry skin 
Pruritus 
Actinic keratosis 
Skin lesion 
Erythema 
Photosensitivity 
Panniculitis 
Arthralgia 
Myalgia 
Pain in extremity 
Renal failure, acute renal failure 
Nephritis 
Pyrexia 
Fatigue 
Chills 
Asthenia 
Influenza-like illness 
Very common 
Cough 
Table 3 
Adverse reactions with dabrafenib monotherapy 
System organ class 
Frequency (all grades) 
Very common 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (including 
cysts and polyps) 
Common 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
15 
 
 
Table 4 
Adverse reactions with dabrafenib in combination with trametinib 
System organ class 
Frequency (all grades) 
Very common 
Infections and infestations 
Common 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and unspecified 
(incl cysts and polyps) 
Common 
Uncommon 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Common 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Common 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Adverse reactions 
Nasopharyngitis 
Urinary tract infection 
Cellulitis 
Folliculitis 
Paronychia 
Rash pustular 
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinomaa 
Papillomab 
Seborrhoeic keratosis 
New primary melanomac 
Acrochordon (skin tags) 
Neutropenia 
Anaemia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Leukopenia 
Hypersensitivityd 
Sarcoidosis 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
Decreased appetite 
Dehydration 
Hyponatraemia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Hyperglycaemia 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Peripheral neuropathy (including 
sensory and motor neuropathy) 
Vision blurred 
Visual impairment 
Uveitis 
Chorioretinopathy 
Retinal detachment 
Periorbital oedema 
Ejection fraction decreased 
Bradycardia 
Myocarditis 
Hypertension 
Haemorrhagee 
Hypotension 
Lymphoedema 
Cough 
Dyspnoea 
Pneumonitis 
16 
 
Abdominal painf 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Dry mouth 
Stomatitis 
Pancreatitis 
Colitis 
Gastrointestinal perforation 
Dry skin 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Erythemag 
Dermatitis acneiform 
Actinic keratosis 
Night sweats 
Hyperkeratosis 
Alopecia 
Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome 
Skin lesion 
Hyperhidrosis 
Panniculitis 
Skin fissures 
Photosensitivity 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms 
Dermatitis exfoliative generalised 
Arthralgia 
Myalgia 
Pain in extremity 
Muscle spasmsh 
Renal failure 
Nephritis 
Fatigue 
Chills 
Asthenia 
Oedema peripheral 
Pyrexia 
Influenza-like illness 
Mucosal inflammation 
Face oedema 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common 
Skin and subcutaneous 
disorders 
Common 
Not known 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Renal and urinary disorders  Uncommon 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Very common 
Common 
17 
Investigations 
Very common 
Common 
Alanine aminotransferase increased 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 
Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased 
Blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased 
a Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cu SCC): SCC, SCC of the skin, SCC in situ (Bowen’s disease) 
and keratoacanthoma 
b Papilloma, skin papilloma 
c Malignant melanoma, metastatic malignant melanoma, and superficial spreading melanoma stage III 
d Includes drug hypersensitivity 
e Bleeding from various sites, including intracranial bleeding and fatal bleeding 
f Abdominal pain upper and abdominal pain lower 
g Erythema, generalised erythema 
h Muscle spasms, musculoskeletal stiffness 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma 
For dabrafenib monotherapy in study MEK115306, cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas (including 
those classified as keratoacanthoma or mixed keratoacanthoma subtype) occurred in 10% of patients 
and approximately 70% of the events occurred within the first 12 weeks of treatment with a median 
time to onset of 8 weeks. In the integrated safety population for dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib, 2% of patients developed cuSCC and the events occurred later than with dabrafenib 
monotherapy with a median time to onset of 18-31 weeks. All patients receiving dabrafenib as 
monotherapy or in combination with trametinib who developed cuSCC continued on treatment without 
dose modification. 
New primary melanoma 
New primary melanomas have been reported in clinical trials with dabrafenib as monotherapy and in 
combination with trametinib in melanoma studies. Cases were managed with excision and did not 
require treatment modification (see section 4.4). No new primary melanoma was reported from the 
Phase II NSCLC study (BRF113928). 
Non-cutaneous malignancy 
Activation of MAP-kinase signalling in BRAF wild type cells which are exposed to BRAF inhibitors 
may lead to increased risk of non-cutaneous malignancies, including those with RAS mutations (see 
section 4.4). Non-cutaneous malignancies were reported in 1% (6/586) of patients in the integrated 
safety population of dabrafenib monotherapy, and <1% (8/1076) of patients in the integrated safety 
population of dabrafenib in combination with trametinib. Cases of RAS-driven malignancies have 
been seen with dabrafenib as monotherapy and in combination with trametinib. Patients should be 
monitored as clinically appropriate. 
Haemorrhage 
Haemorrhagic events, including major haemorrhagic events and fatal haemorrhages, have occurred in 
patients taking dabrafenib in combination with trametinib. Please refer to the trametinib SmPC. 
LVEF reduction/Left ventricular dysfunction 
Decreased LVEF has been reported in 6% (65/1076) of patients in the integrated safety population of 
dabrafenib in combination with trametinib. Most cases were asymptomatic and reversible. Patients 
with LVEF lower than the institutional lower limit of normal were not included in clinical trials with 
dabrafenib. Dabrafenib in combination with trametinib should be used with caution in patients with 
conditions that could impair left ventricular function. Please refer to the trametinib SmPC. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pyrexia 
Fever has been reported in clinical trials with dabrafenib as monotherapy and in combination with 
trametinib; the incidence and severity of pyrexia are increased with the combination therapy (see 
section 4.4). For patients who received dabrafenib in combination with trametinib and developed 
pyrexia, approximately half of the first occurrences of pyrexia happened within the first month of 
therapy and approximately one-third of the patients had 3 or more events. In 1% of patients receiving 
dabrafenib as monotherapy in the integrated safety population, serious non-infectious febrile events 
were identified as fever accompanied by severe rigors, dehydration, hypotension and/or acute renal 
insufficiency or pre-renal origin in subjects with normal baseline renal function. The onset of these 
serious non-infectious febrile events was typically within the first month of therapy. Patients with 
serious non-infectious febrile events responded well to dose interruption and/or dose reduction and 
supportive care (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Hepatic events 
Hepatic adverse events have been reported in clinical trials with dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib. Please refer to the trametinib SmPC. 
Hypertension 
Elevations in blood pressure have been reported in association with dabrafenib in combination with 
trametinib, in patients with or without pre-existing hypertension. Blood pressure should be measured 
at baseline and monitored during treatment, with control of hypertension by standard therapy as 
appropriate. 
Arthralgia 
Arthralgia was reported very commonly in the integrated safety population of dabrafenib monotherapy 
(25%) and dabrafenib in combination with trametinib (25%) although these were mainly Grade 1 and 
2 in severity with Grade 3 occurring uncommonly (<1%) and no Grade 4 occurrences being reported. 
Hypophosphataemia 
Hypophosphataemia has been reported commonly in the integrated safety population of dabrafenib 
monotherapy (7%) and of dabrafenib in combination with trametinib (4%). It should be noted that 
approximately half of these occurrences with dabrafenib monotherapy (4%) and 1% with dabrafenib in 
combination with trametinib were Grade 3 in severity.  
Pancreatitis 
Pancreatitis has been reported in dabrafenib monotherapy and in combination with trametinib. 
Unexplained abdominal pain should be promptly investigated to include measurement of serum 
amylase and lipase. Patients should be closely monitored when re-starting dabrafenib after an episode 
of pancreatitis (see section 4.4). 
Renal failure 
Renal failure due to pyrexia-associated pre-renal azotaemia or granulomatous nephritis was 
uncommon; however dabrafenib has not been studied in patients with renal insufficiency (defined as 
creatinine >1.5 x ULN). Caution should be used in this setting (see section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Of the total number of patients in the integrated safety population of dabrafenib monotherapy (n=578), 
22% were 65 years of age and older, and 6% were 75 years of age and older. Compared with younger 
subjects (<65), more subjects 65 years old had adverse reactions that led to study drug dose 
reductions (22% versus 12%) or interruptions (39% versus 27%). In addition, older patients 
experienced more serious adverse reactions compared to younger patients (41% versus 22%). No 
overall differences in efficacy were observed between these subjects and younger subjects. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the integrated safety population of dabrafenib in combination with trametinib (n=1076), 
265 patients (25%) were ≥65 years of age, 62 patients (6%) were ≥75 years of age. The proportion of 
patients experiencing AEs was similar in those aged <65 years and those aged ≥65 years in all clinical 
trials. Patients ≥65 years were more likely to experience SAEs and AEs leading to permanent 
discontinuation of medicinal product, dose reduction and dose interruption than those <65 years. 
Dabrafenib in combination with trametinib in patients with brain metastases 
The safety and efficacy of the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib have been evaluated in a 
multi-cohort, open-label, Phase II study in patients with BRAF V600 mutant melanoma with brain 
metastases. The safety profile observed in these patients appears to be consistent with the integrated 
safety profile of the combination. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no specific treatment for an overdose of dabrafenib. If overdose occurs, the patient should be 
treated supportively with appropriate monitoring as necessary. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors, B-Raf serine-threonine 
kinase (BRAF) inhibitors, ATC code: L01EC02 
Mechanism of action 
Dabrafenib is an inhibitor of RAF kinases. Oncogenic mutations in BRAF lead to constitutive 
activation of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway. BRAF mutations have been identified at a high 
frequency in specific cancers, including approximately 50% of melanoma. The most commonly 
observed BRAF mutation is V600E which accounts for approximately 90% of the BRAF mutations 
that are seen in melanoma. 
Preclinical data generated in biochemical assays demonstrated that dabrafenib inhibits BRAF kinases 
with activating codon 600 mutations (Table 5). 
Table 5 
Kinase inhibitory activity of dabrafenib against RAF kinases 
Kinase 
BRAF V600E 
BRAF V600K 
BRAF V600D 
BRAF WT 
CRAF WT 
Inhibitory concentration 50 (nM) 
0.65 
0.50 
1.8 
3.2 
5.0 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dabrafenib demonstrated suppression of a downstream pharmacodynamic biomarker (phosphorylated 
ERK) and inhibited cell growth of BRAF V600 mutant melanoma cell lines, in vitro and in animal 
models. 
In subjects with BRAF V600 mutation positive melanoma, administration of dabrafenib resulted in 
inhibition of tumour phosphorylated ERK relative to baseline. 
Combination with trametinib 
Trametinib is a reversible, highly selective, allosteric inhibitor of mitogen-activated extracellular 
signal regulated kinase 1 (MEK1) and MEK2 activation and kinase activity. MEK proteins are 
components of the extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) pathway. Thus, trametinib and dabrafenib 
inhibit two kinases in this pathway, MEK and RAF, and therefore the combination provides 
concomitant inhibition of the pathway. The combination of dabrafenib with trametinib has shown 
anti-tumour activity in BRAF V600 mutation positive melanoma cell lines in vitro and delays the 
emergence of resistance in vivo in BRAF V600 mutation positive melanoma xenografts. 
Determination of BRAF mutation status 
Before taking dabrafenib or combination with trametinib, patients must have BRAF V600 
mutation-positive tumour status confirmed by a validated test. In the Phase II and III clinical trials, 
screening for eligibility required central testing for BRAF V600 mutation using a BRAF mutation 
assay conducted on the most recent tumour sample available. Primary tumour or tumour from a 
metastatic site was tested with an investigational use only assay (IUO). The IUO is an allele-specific 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay performed on DNA extracted from formalin-fixed 
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumour tissue. The assay was specifically designed to differentiate between 
the V600E and V600K mutations. Only subjects with BRAF V600E or V600K mutation positive 
tumours were eligible for study participation. 
Subsequently, all patient samples were re-tested using the bioMerieux (bMx) THxID BRAF validated 
assay, which has CE marking. The bMx THxID BRAF assay is an allele-specific PCR performed on 
DNA extracted from FFPE tumour tissue. The assay was designed to detect the BRAF V600E and 
V600K mutations with high sensitivity (down to 5% V600E and V600K sequence in a background of 
wild-type sequence using DNA extracted from FFPE tissue). Non-clinical and clinical trials with 
retrospective bi-directional Sanger sequencing analyses have shown that the test also detects the less 
common BRAF V600D mutation and V600E/K601E mutation with lower sensitivity. Of the 
specimens from the non-clinical and clinical trials (n=876) that were mutation positive by the THxID 
BRAF assay and subsequently were sequenced using the reference method, the specificity of the assay 
was 94%. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Dabrafenib in combination with trametinib 
Unresectable or metastatic melanoma 
• 
Treatment-naïve patients 
The efficacy and safety of the recommended dose of trametinib (2 mg once daily) in combination with 
dabrafenib (150 mg twice daily) for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic 
melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation was studied in two Phase III trials and one supportive 
Phase I/II study. 
MEK115306 (COMBI-d): 
MEK115306 was a Phase III, randomised, double-blinded study comparing the combination of 
dabrafenib and trametinib to dabrafenib and placebo in first-line therapy for subjects with unresectable 
(Stage IIIC) or metastatic (Stage IV) BRAF V600E/K mutation-positive cutaneous melanoma. The 
primary endpoint of the study was progression-free survival (PFS), with a key secondary endpoint of 
overall survival (OS). Subjects were stratified by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level (> the upper limit 
of normal (ULN) versus ≤ULN) and BRAF mutation (V600E versus V600K). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 423 subjects were randomised 1:1 to either combination (N=211) or dabrafenib (N=212). 
Most subjects were Caucasian (>99%) and male (53%), with a median age of 56 years (28% were 
≥65 years). The majority of subjects had Stage IVM1c disease (67%). Most subjects had LDH ≤ULN 
(65%), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 (72%), and visceral 
disease (73%) at baseline. The majority of subjects had a BRAF V600E mutation (85%). Subjects with 
brain metastases were not included in the trial. 
Median OS and estimated 1-year, 2-year, 3-year, 4 year and 5-year survival rates are presented in 
Table 6. From an OS analysis at 5 years, the median OS for the combination arm was approximately 
7 months longer than for dabrafenib monotherapy (25.8 months versus 18.7 months) with 5-year 
survival rates of 32% for the combination versus 27% for dabrafenib monotherapy (Table 6, Figure 1). 
The Kaplan-Meier OS curve appears to stabilise from 3 to 5 years (see Figure 1). The 5-year overall 
survival rate was 40% (95% CI: 31.2, 48.4) in the combination arm versus 33% (95% CI: 25.0, 41.0) 
in the dabrafenib monotherapy arm for patients who had a normal lactate dehydrogenase level at 
baseline, and 16% (95% CI: 8.4, 26.0) in the combination arm versus 14% (95% CI: 6.8, 23.1) in the 
dabrafenib monotherapy arm for patients with an elevated lactate dehydrogenase level at baseline. 
Table 6 
Overall Survival results for Study MEK115306 (COMBI-d) 
OS analysis 
(data cut-off: 12-Jan-2015) 
5-year OS analysis 
(data cut-off: 10-Dec-2018) 
Dabrafenib + 
Trametinib 
(n=211) 
Dabrafenib + 
Placebo 
(n=212) 
Dabrafenib + 
Trametinib 
(n=211) 
Dabrafenib + 
Placebo 
(n=212) 
Number of patients 
Died (event), n 
(%) 
Estimates of OS (months) 
99 (47) 
123 (58) 
135 (64) 
151 (71) 
Median (95% CI) 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
Overall survival 
estimate, % (95% 
CI) 
25.1 
(19.2, NR) 
18.7 
(15.2, 23.7) 
25.8 
(19.2, 38.2) 
18.7 
(15.2, 23.1) 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.92) 
0.011 
0.80 
(0.63, 1.01) 
NA 
Dabrafenib + Trametinib 
(n=211) 
Dabrafenib + Placebo 
(n=212) 
At 1 year 
At 2 years 
At 3 years 
At 4 years 
At 5 years 
NR = Not reached, NA = Not applicable 
74 (66.8, 79.0) 
52 (44.7, 58.6) 
43 (36.2, 50.1) 
35 (28.2, 41.8) 
32 (25.1, 38.3) 
68 (60.8, 73.5) 
42 (35.4, 48.9) 
31 (25.1, 37.9) 
29 (22.7, 35.2) 
27 (20.7, 33.0) 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Kaplan-Meier overall survival curves for Study MEK115306 (ITT population) 
Dabrafenib + Trametinib 
Dabrafenib + Placebo 
n
o
i
t
c
n
u
F
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
1.0 
0.8 
0.6 
0.4 
0.2 
0.0 
0 
6 
1 2 
1 8 
2 4 
3 0 
3 6 
4 2 
4 8 
5 4 
6 0 
6 6 
7 2 
78 
Dabrafenib + Trametinib 
Dabrafenib + Placebo 
Subjects at Risk: 
188 
211 
175 
212 
145 
137 
Time since Randomisation (Months) 
113 
104 
98 
84 
86 
69 
79 
60 
71 
56 
63 
54 
60 
51 
57 
50 
54 
46 
12 
10 
0 
0 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improvements for the primary endpoint of PFS were sustained over a 5 year timeframe in the 
combination arm compared to dabrafenib monotherapy. Improvements were also observed for overall 
response rate (ORR) and a longer duration of response (DoR) was observed in the combination arm 
compared to dabrafenib monotherapy (Table 7). 
Table 7 
Efficacy results for Study MEK115306 (COMBI-d) 
Endpoint 
PFSa 
Progressive 
disease or death, n 
(%) 
Median PFS 
(months) (95% 
CI) 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) 
  P value 
ORRb 
% (95% CI) 
ORR difference 
(95% CI) 
  P value 
DoRc (months) 
Median 
(95% CI) 
Primary analysis (data 
cut-off: 26-Aug-2013) 
Updated analysis (data 
cut-off: 12-Jan-2015) 
Dabrafenib 
+ 
Trametinib 
(n=211) 
Dabrafenib 
+ 
Placebo 
(n=212) 
Dabrafenib 
+ 
Trametinib 
(n=211) 
Dabrafenib 
+ 
Placebo 
(n=212) 
5-year analysis (data cut-
off: 10-Dec-2018) 
Dabrafenib 
+ 
Trametinib 
(n=211) 
Dabrafenib 
+ 
Placebo 
(n=212) 
102 (48) 
109 (51) 
139 (66) 
162 (76) 
160 (76) 
166 (78) 
9.3 
(7.7, 11.1) 
8.8 
(5.9, 10.9) 
11.0 
(8.0, 13.9) 
8.8 
(5.9, 9.3) 
10.2 
(8.1, 12.8) 
8.8 
(5.9, 9.3) 
0.75 
(0.57, 0.99) 
0.035 
0.67 
(0.53, 0.84) 
<0.001f 
0.73 
(0.59, 0.91) 
NA 
67 
(59.9, 73.0) 
51 
(44.5, 58.4) 
69 
(61.8, 74.8) 
53 
(46.3, 60.2) 
69 
(62.5, 75.4) 
54 
(46.8, 60.6) 
15e 
(5.9, 24.5) 
0.0015 
15e 
(6.0, 24.5) 
0.0014f 
NA 
NA 
9.2d 
(7.4, NR) 
10.2d 
(7.5, NR) 
12.9 
(9.4,19.5) 
10.6 
(9.1, 13.8) 
12.9 
(9.3, 18.4) 
10.2 
(8.3, 13.8) 
a – Progression-free survival (investigator assessed) 
b – Overall Response Rate = Complete Response + Partial Response 
c – Duration of response 
d – At the time of the reporting the majority (≥59%) of investigator-assessed responses were still ongoing 
e – ORR difference calculated based on the ORR result not rounded 
f – Updated analysis was not pre-planned and the p-value was not adjusted for multiple testing 
NR = Not reached 
NA = Not applicable 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MEK116513 (COMBI-v): 
Study MEK116513 was a 2-arm, randomised, open-label, Phase III study comparing dabrafenib and 
trametinib combination therapy with vemurafenib monotherapy in BRAF V600 mutation-positive 
unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The primary endpoint of the study was OS with a key secondary 
endpoint of PFS. Subjects were stratified by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level (> the upper limit of 
normal (ULN) versus ≤ULN) and BRAF mutation (V600E versus V600K). 
A total of 704 subjects were randomised 1:1 to either combination or vemurafenib. Most subjects were 
Caucasian (>96%) and male (55%), with a median age of 55 years (24% were ≥65 years). The 
majority of subjects had Stage IV M1c disease (61% overall). Most subjects had LDH ≤ULN (67%), 
ECOG performance status of 0 (70%), and visceral disease (78%) at Baseline. Overall, 54% of 
subjects had <3 disease sites at baseline. The majority of subjects had BRAF V600E mutation-positive 
melanoma (89%). Subjects with brain metastases were not included in the trial. 
Median OS and estimated 1-year, 2-year, 3-year, 4 year and 5-year survival rates are presented in 
Table 8. From an OS analysis at 5 years, the median OS for the combination arm was approximately 
8 months longer than the median OS for vemurafenib monotherapy (26.0 months versus 17.8 months) 
with 5-year survival rates of 36% for the combination versus 23% for vemurafenib monotherapy 
(Table 8, Figure 2). The Kaplan-Meier OS curve appears to stabilise from 3 to 5 years (see Figure 2). 
The 5-year overall survival rate was 46% (95% CI: 38.8, 52.0) in the combination arm versus 28% 
(95% CI: 22.5, 34.6) in the vemurafenib monotherapy arm for patients who had a normal lactate 
dehydrogenase level at baseline, and 16% (95% CI: 9.3, 23.3) in the combination arm versus 10% 
(95% CI: 5.1, 17.4) in the vemurafenib monotherapy arm for patients with an elevated lactate 
dehydrogenase level at baseline. 
Table 8 
Overall Survival results for Study MEK116513 (COMBI-v) 
OS analysis 
data cut-off: 13-Mar-2015) 
5-year OS analysis 
(data cut-off: 08-Oct-2018) 
Dabrafenib + 
Trametinib 
(n=352) 
Vemurafenib 
(n=352) 
Dabrafenib + 
Trametinib 
(n=352) 
Vemurafenib 
(n=352) 
155 (44) 
194 (55) 
216 (61) 
246 (70) 
Number of patients 
Died (event), n 
(%) 
Estimates of OS (months) 
Median (95% CI) 
25.6 
(22.6, NR) 
18.0 
(15.6, 20.7) 
26.0 
(22.1, 33.8) 
17.8 
(15.6, 20.7) 
Adjusted hazard 
ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
0.66 
(0.53, 0.81) 
<0.001 
Dabrafenib + Trametinib 
(n=352) 
Overall survival 
estimate, % (95% 
CI)  
At 1 year 
At 2 years 
At 3 years 
At 4 years 
At 5 years 
NR = Not reached, NA = Not applicable 
72 (67, 77) 
53 (47.1, 57.8) 
44 (38.8, 49.4) 
39 (33.4, 44.0) 
36 (30.5, 40.9) 
0.70 
(0.58, 0.84) 
NA 
Vemurafenib 
(n=352) 
65 (59, 70) 
39 (33.8, 44.5) 
31 (25.9, 36.2) 
26 (21.3, 31.0) 
23 (18.1, 27.4) 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 
Kaplan-Meier overall survival curves for Study MEK116513 
n
o
i
t
c
n
u
F
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
1.0 
0.8 
0.6 
0.4 
0.2 
0.0 
Dabrafenib + Trametinib 
Vemurafenib 
0 
6 
1 2 
1 8 
2 4 
3 0 
3 6 
4 2 
4 8 
5 4 
6 0 
6 6 
7 2 
78 
Time since Randomisation (Months) 
Dabrafenib + Trametinib 
Vemurafenib 
Subjects at Risk: 
352 
352 
311 
287 
246 
201 
201 
154 
171 
120 
151 
104 
140 
94 
130 
86 
118 
78 
109 
72 
104 
65 
49 
30 
4 
1 
0 
0 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improvements for the secondary endpoint of PFS were sustained over a 5 year timeframe in the 
combination arm compared to vemurafenib monotherapy. Improvements were also observed for ORR 
and a longer DoR was observed in the combination arm compared to vemurafenib monotherapy 
(Table 9). 
Table 9 
Efficacy results for Study MEK116513 (COMBI-v) 
Endpoint 
PFSa 
Progressive 
disease or death, 
n (%) 
Median PFS 
(months) 
(95% CI) 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) 
  P value 
ORRb 
% (95% CI) 
ORR difference 
(95% CI) 
P value 
DoRc (months) 
Median 
(95% CI) 
Primary analysis (Data cut-off: 17-
Apr-2014) 
5-year analysis (Data cut-off: 08-
Oct-2018) 
Dabrafenib + 
Trametinib 
(n=352) 
Vemurafenib 
(n=352) 
Dabrafenib + 
Trametinib 
(n=352) 
Vemurafenib 
(n=352) 
166 (47) 
217 (62) 
257 (73) 
259 (74) 
11.4 
(9.9, 14.9) 
7.3 
(5.8, 7.8) 
12.1 
(9.7, 14.7) 
7.3 
(6.0, 8.1) 
0.56 
(0.46, 0.69) 
<0.001 
0.62 
(0.52, 0.74) 
NA 
64 
(59.1, 69.4) 
51 
(46.1, 56.8) 
67 
(62.2, 72.2) 
53 
(47.2, 57.9) 
13 
(5.7, 20.2) 
0.0005 
NA 
NA 
13.8d 
(11.0, NR) 
7.5d 
(7.3, 9.3) 
13.8 
(11.3, 18.6) 
8.5 
(7.4, 9.3) 
a – Progression-free survival (investigator assessed) 
b – Overall Response Rate = Complete Response + Partial Response 
c – Duration of response 
d – At the time of the reporting the majority (59% of dabrafenib+trametinib and 42% of vemurafenib) 
of investigator-assessed responses were still ongoing 
NR = Not reached 
NA = Not applicable 
Prior BRAF inhibitor therapy 
There are limited data in patients taking the combination of dabrafenib with trametinib who have 
progressed on a prior BRAF inhibitor. 
Part B of study BRF113220 included a cohort of 26 patients that had progressed on a BRAF inhibitor. 
The trametinib 2 mg once daily and dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily combination demonstrated limited 
clinical activity in patients who had progressed on a BRAF inhibitor. The investigator-assessed 
confirmed response rate was 15% (95% CI: 4.4, 34.9) and the median PFS was 3.6 months (95% CI: 
1.9, 5.2). Similar results were seen in the 45 patients who crossed over from dabrafenib monotherapy 
to the trametinib 2 mg once daily and dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily combination in Part C of this 
study. In these patients a 13% (95 CI: 5.0, 27.0) confirmed response rate was observed with a median 
PFS of 3.6 months (95% CI: 2, 4). 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with brain metastases 
The efficacy and safety of dabrafenib in combination with trametinib in patients with BRAF 
mutant-positive melanoma that has metastasised to the brain was studied in a non-randomised, 
open-label, multicentre, Phase II study (COMBI-MB study). A total of 125 patients were enrolled into 
four cohorts: 
• 
Cohort A: patients with BRAFV600E mutant melanoma with asymptomatic brain metastases 
without prior local brain-directed therapy and ECOG performance status of 0 or 1. 
Cohort B: patients with BRAFV600E mutant melanoma with asymptomatic brain metastases 
with prior local brain-directed therapy and ECOG performance status of 0 or1. 
Cohort C: patients with BRAFV600D/K/R mutant melanoma with asymptomatic brain 
metastases, with or without prior local brain-directed therapy and ECOG performance status of 
0 or 1. 
Cohort D: patients with BRAFV600D/E/K/R mutant melanoma with symptomatic brain 
metastases, with or without prior local brain-directed therapy and ECOG performance status of 
0 or 1 or 2. 
• 
• 
• 
The primary endpoint of the study was intracranial response in Cohort A, defined as the percentage of 
patients with a confirmed intracranial response assessed by the investigator using modified Response 
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. Intracranial response assessed by the 
investigator in Cohorts B, C and D were secondary endpoints of the study. Due to small sample size 
reflected by wide 95% CIs, the results in Cohorts B, C, and D should be interpreted with caution. 
Efficacy results are summarised in Table 10. 
Table 10 
Efficacy data by investigator assessment from COMBI-MB study 
Endpoints/ 
assessment 
Intracranial response rate, % (95 % CI) 
Cohort A 
N=76 
All treated patients population 
Cohort B 
N=16 
Cohort C 
N=16 
59% 
(47.3, 70.4) 
Duration of intracranial response, median, months (95% CI) 
6.5 
(4.9, 8.6) 
Overall response rate, % (95% CI) 
56% 
(29.9, 80.2) 
7.3 
(3.6, 12.6) 
44% 
(19.8, 70.1) 
8.3 
(1.3, 15.0) 
Cohort D 
N=17 
59% 
(32.9, 81.6) 
4.5 
(2.8, 5.9) 
56% 
(29.9, 80.2) 
Progression-free survival, median, months (95% CI) 
59% 
(47.3, 70.4) 
44% 
(19.8, 70.1) 
65% 
(38.3, 85.8) 
5.7 
(5.3, 7.3) 
7.2 
(4.7, 14.6) 
3.7 
(1.7, 6.5) 
Overall survival, median, months (95% CI) 
10.8 
(8.7, 17.9) 
24.3 
(7.9, NR) 
10.1 
(4.6, 17.6) 
5.5 
(3.7, 11.6) 
11.5 
(6.8, 22.4) 
CI = Confidence Interval 
NR = Not reached 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dabrafenib monotherapy 
• 
The efficacy of dabrafenib in the treatment of adult patients with BRAF V600 mutation positive 
unresectable or metastatic melanoma has been evaluated in 3  clinical trials (BRF113683 [BREAK-3], 
BRF113929 [BREAK-MB], and BRF113710 [BREAK-2]) including patients with BRAF V600E 
and/or V600K mutations. 
Included in these clinical trials were in total 402 subjects with BRAF V600E and 49 subjects with 
BRAF V600K mutation. Patients with melanoma driven by BRAF mutations other than V600E were 
excluded from the confirmatory trial and with respect to patients with the V600K mutation in single 
arm clinical trials the activity appears lower than in V600E tumours. 
No data is available in patients with melanoma harbouring BRAF V600 mutations others than V600E 
and V600K. Efficacy of dabrafenib in subjects previously treated with a protein kinase inhibitor has 
not been investigated. 
Previously untreated patients (results from the Phase III study [BREAK-3]) 
The efficacy and safety of dabrafenib were evaluated in a Phase III randomised, open-label study 
[BREAK 3] comparing dabrafenib to dacarbazine (DTIC) in previously untreated patients with BRAF 
V600E mutation positive advanced (unresectable Stage III) or metastatic (Stage IV) melanoma. 
Patients with melanoma driven by BRAF mutations other than V600E were excluded. 
The primary objective for this study was to evaluate the efficacy of dabrafenib compared to DTIC with 
respect to PFS per investigator assessment. Patients on the DTIC arm were allowed to cross over to 
dabrafenib after independent radiographic confirmation of initial progression. Baseline characteristics 
were balanced between treatment groups. Sixty percent of patients were male and 99.6% were 
Caucasian; the median age was 52 years with 21% of patients being ≥65 years, 98.4% had ECOG 
status of 0 or 1, and 97% of patients had metastatic disease. 
At the pre-specified analysis with a 19 December 2011 data cut, a significant improvement in the 
primary endpoint of PFS (HR=0.30; 95% Cl 0.18, 0.51; p < 0.0001) was achieved. Efficacy results 
from the primary analysis and a post-hoc analysis with 6-months additional follow up are summarised 
in Table 11. OS data from a further post-hoc analysis based on a 18 December 2012 data cut are 
shown in Figure 3. 
Table 11 
Efficacy in previously untreated patients (BREAK-3 Study, 25 June 2012) 
Data as of 
December 19, 2011 
Data as of 
June 25, 2012 
Dabrafenib 
N=187 
DTIC 
N=63 
Dabrafenib 
N=187 
DTIC 
N=63 
Progression-free survival  
Median, months 
(95% CI)  
5.1 (4.9, 6.9) 
2.7 (1.5, 3.2) 
6.9 (5.2,9.0) 
2.7 (1.5,3.2) 
HR (95% CI) 
Overall responsea  
0.30 (0.18, 0.51) 
P < 0.0001 
0.37 (0.24, 0.58) 
P < 0.0001 
% (95% CI) 
53 (45.5, 60.3) 
19 (10.2, 30.9) 
59 (51.4, 66.0) 
24 (14, 36.2) 
Duration of response 
Median, months 
(95% CI)  
Abbreviations: CI: confidence interval; DTIC: dacarbazine; HR: hazard ratio; NR: not reached 
a Defined as confirmed complete + partial response. 
N=110 
 8.0 (6.6, 11.5) 
N=12 
NR (5.0, NR) 
N=99 
5.6 (4.8, NR) 
N=15 
 7.6 (5.0, 9.7) 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of 25 June 2012 cut-off, thirty five subjects (55.6%) of the 63 randomised to DTIC had crossed 
over to dabrafenib and 63% of subjects randomised to dabrafenib and 79% of subjects randomised to 
DTIC had progressed or died. Median PFS after cross-over was 4.4 months. 
Table 12 
Survival data from the primary analysis and post-hoc analyses 
Cut-off date 
Treatment 
December 19, 2011  DTIC 
June 25, 2012 
dabrafenib 
DTIC 
dabrafenib 
December 18, 2012  DTIC 
dabrafenib 
Number of 
deaths (%) 
9 (14%) 
21 (11%) 
21 (33%) 
55 (29%)  
28 (44%) 
78 (42%) 
(a) Patients were not censored at the time of cross-over 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
0.61 (0.25, 1.48) (a) 
0.75 (0.44, 1.29) (a) 
0.76 (0.48, 1.21) (a) 
OS data from a further post-hoc analysis based on the 18 December 2012 data cut demonstrated a 
12-month OS rate of 63% and 70% for DTIC and dabrafenib treatments, respectively. 
Figure 3 
Kaplan-Meier curves of overall survival (BREAK-3) (18 December 2012) 
Patients with brain metastases (results from the Phase II study (BREAK-MB) 
BREAK-MB was a multicentre, open-label, two-cohort, Phase II study designed to evaluate the 
intracranial response of dabrafenib in subjects with histologically confirmed (Stage IV) 
BRAF-mutation positive (V600E or V600K) melanoma metastatic to the brain. Subjects were enrolled 
into Cohort A (subjects with no prior local therapy for brain metastasis) or Cohort B (subjects who 
received prior local therapy for brain metastasis). 
The primary endpoint of the study was overall intracranial response rate (OIRR) in the V600E patient 
population, as assessed by investigators. The confirmed OIRR and other efficacy results per 
investigator assessment are presented in Table 13. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 
Efficacy data in patients with brain metastases (BREAK-MB Study) 
All Treated Subjects Population 
BRAF V600E (Primary) 
BRAF V600K 
Cohort A 
N=74 
Cohort B 
N=65 
Cohort A 
N=15 
Cohort B 
N=18 
Overall intracranial response rate,% (95% CI)a 
39% (28.0, 51.2) 
P < 0.001b 
Duration of intracranial response, median, months (95% CI) 
N=29 
4.6 (2.8, NR) 
31% (19.9, 43.4) 
P < 0.001b 
N=20 
6.5 (4.6, 6.5) 
7% (0.2, 31.9) 
22% (6.4, 47.6) 
N=1 
2.9 (NR, NR) 
N=4 
3.8 (NR, NR) 
Overall response,% (95% CI)a 
38% (26.8, 49.9) 
31% (19.9, 43.4) 
0 (0, 21.8) 
28% (9.7, 53.5) 
Duration of response, median, months (95% CI) 
N=28 
5.1 (3.7, NR) 
N=20 
4.6 (4.6, 6.5) 
NA 
N=5 
3.1 (2.8, NR) 
Progression-free survival, median, months (95% CI) 
3.7 (3.6, 5.0) 
3.8 (3.6, 5.5) 
1.9 (0.7, 3.7) 
3.6 (1.8, 5.2) 
Overall survival, median, months (95% CI) 
Median, months  
7.6 (5.9, NR) 
7.2 (5.9, NR) 
3.7 (1.6, 5.2) 
5.0 (3.5, NR) 
Abbreviations: CI: confidence interval; NR: not reached; NA: not applicable 
a 
b 
Confirmed response. 
This study was designed to support or reject the null hypothesis of OIRR ≤10% (based on 
historical results) in favour of the alternative hypothesis of OIRR ≥ 30% in BRAF V600E 
mutation positive subjects. 
Patients who were previously untreated or failed at least one prior systemic therapy (results from the 
Phase II [BREAK-2]) 
BRF113710 (BREAK-2) was a multicentre, single-arm study that enrolled 92 subjects with metastatic 
melanoma (Stage IV) with confirmed BRAF V600E or V600K mutation-positive melanoma. 
The investigator assessed confirmed response rate in patients with BRAF V600E metastatic melanoma 
(n=76) was 59% (95% CI: 48.2, 70.3) and the median DoR was 5.2 months (95% CI: 3.9, not 
calculable) based on a median follow-up time of 6.5 months. In patients with BRAF V600K mutation 
positive metastatic melanoma (n=16) the response rate was 13% (95% CI: 0.0, 28.7) with a median 
DoR of 5.3 months (95% CI: 3.7, 6.8). Although limited by the low number of patients, median OS 
appeared consistent with data in patients with BRAF V600E positive tumours. 
Adjuvant treatment of Stage III melanoma 
BRF115532 (COMBI-AD) 
The efficacy and safety of dabrafenib in combination with trametinib were studied in a Phase III, 
multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in patients with Stage III (Stage IIIA 
[lymph node metastasis >1 mm], IIIB, or IIIC) cutaneous melanoma with a BRAF V600 E/K 
mutation, following complete resection. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients were randomised 1:1 to receive either combination therapy (dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily 
and trametinib 2 mg once daily) or two placebos for a period of 12 months. Enrollment required 
complete resection of melanoma with complete lymphadenectomy within 12 weeks prior to 
randomisation. Any prior systemic anti-cancer treatment, including radiotherapy, was not allowed. 
Patients with a history of prior malignancy, if disease-free for at least 5 years, were eligible. Patients 
presenting with malignancies with confirmed activating RAS mutations were not eligible. Patients 
were stratified by BRAF mutation status (V600E versus V600K) and stage of disease prior to surgery 
using the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) 7th edition Melanoma Staging System (by 
Stage III sub-stage, indicating different levels of lymph node involvement and primary tumour size 
and ulceration). The primary endpoint was investigator-assessed relapse-free survival (RFS), defined 
as the time from randomisation to disease recurrence or death from any cause. Radiological tumour 
assessment was conducted every 3 months for the first two years and every 6 months thereafter, until 
first relapse was observed. Secondary endpoints include overall survival (OS; key secondary 
endpoint), freedom from relapse (FFR) and distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS). 
A total of 870 patients were randomised to the combination therapy (n=438) and placebo (n=432) 
arms. Most patients were Caucasian (99%) and male (55%), with a median age of 51 years (18% were 
≥65 years). The study included patients with all sub-stages of Stage III disease prior to resection; 18% 
of these patients had lymph node involvement only identifiable by microscope and no primary tumour 
ulceration. The majority of patients had a BRAF V600E mutation (91%). At the time of the primary 
analysis, the median duration of follow-up (time from randomisation to last contact or death) was 
2.83 years in the dabrafenib and trametinib combination arm and 2.75 years in the placebo arm. 
Results for the primary analysis of RFS are presented in Table 14. The study showed a statistically 
significant difference for the primary outcome of RFS between treatment arms, with a median RFS of 
16.6 months for the placebo arm and not yet reached for the combination arm (HR: 0.47; 95% 
confidence interval: (0.39, 0.58); p=1.53×10-14). The observed RFS benefit was consistently 
demonstrated across subgroups of patients including age, sex and race. Results were also consistent 
across stratification factors for disease stage and BRAF V600 mutation type. 
Table 14 
Investigator-assessed RFS results for Study BRF115532 (COMBI-AD primary analysis) 
RFS parameter 
Number of events, n (%) 
Recurrence 
Relapsed with distant metastasis 
Death 
Median (months) 
(95% CI) 
Hazard ratio[1] 
Dabrafenib + Trametinib 
N=438 
166 (38%) 
163 (37%) 
103 (24%) 
3 (<1%) 
NE 
(44.5, NE) 
Placebo 
N=432 
248 (57%) 
247 (57%) 
133 (31%) 
1 (<1%) 
16.6 
(12.7, 22.1) 
(95% CI) 
p-value[2] 
1-year rate (95% CI) 
2-year rate (95% CI) 
3-year rate (95% CI) 
[1] Hazard ratio is obtained from the stratified Pike model. 
[2] P-value is obtained from the two-sided stratified logrank test (stratification factors were disease 
stage – IIIA vs. IIIB vs. IIIC – and BRAF V600 mutation type – V600E vs. V600K) 
NE = not estimable 
0.88 (0.85, 0.91) 
0.67 (0.63, 0.72) 
0.58 (0.54, 0.64) 
0.56 (0.51, 0.61) 
0.44 (0.40, 0.49) 
0.39 (0.35, 0.44) 
0.47 
(0.39, 0.58) 
1.53×10-14 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on updated data with an additional 29 months of follow-up compared to the primary analysis 
(minimum follow-up of 59 months), the RFS benefit was maintained with an estimated HR of 0.51 
(95% CI: 0.42, 0.61) (Figure 4). The 5-year RFS rate was 52% (95% CI: 48, 58) in the combination 
arm compared to 36% (95% CI: 32, 41) in the placebo arm. 
Figure 4 
Kaplan-Meier RFS curves for Study BRF115532 (ITT population, updated results) 
e
e
r
f
e
s
p
a
l
e
r
d
n
a
e
v
i
l
a
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0.0 
0  2  4 
6 
8  10  12 
14    16  18 
20  22  24 
Subjects at risk 
Dabrafenib +  Trametinib 
Placebo 
438  413 405 
432  387 322 
391 
280 
381  372  354 
263  243  219 
335  324  298 
204  199  185 
281  275  262 
178  175  168 
Group 
Dabrafenib +  trametinib 
Placebo 
N       Events      Median, months (95% CI) 
438     190             NA (47.9, NA) 
432     262             16.6 (12.7, 22.1) 
HR for recurrence = 0.51 
95% CI (0.42, 0.61) 
60  62  64 
54  56 
58 
66  68  70 
72  74  76 
78  80 
26  28  30 
256  249  242 
166  164  158 
32 
34 36  38 
40  42  44 
46  48  50 
Time from randomisation (months) 
210  204  202 
137  136  133 
221  217  213 
143  140  139 
233  229  228 
151  147  146 
236 
157 
52 
199  195  176 
133  132  121 
156 
115 
133  109  92 
99  80  69 
80  45  38 
56  35  26 
17  8  6 
13  1  1 
2  0 
2  0 
Based on 153 events (60 [14%] in the combination arm and 93 [22%] in the placebo arm) 
corresponding to a 26% information fraction of the total target of 597 OS events, the estimated hazard 
ratio for OS was 0.57 (95% CI: 0.42, 0.79; p=0.0006). These results did not meet the pre-specified 
boundary to claim statistical significance at this first OS interim analysis (HR=0.50; p=0.000019). 
Survival estimates at 1 and 2 years from randomisation were 97% and 91% in the combination arm 
and 94% and 83% in the placebo arm, respectively). 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Study BRF113928 
The efficacy and safety of dabrafenib in combination with trametinib was studied in a Phase II, 
three-cohort, multicentre, non-randomised and open-label study in which patients with stage IV BRAF 
V600E mutant NSCLC were enrolled. The primary endpoint was ORR using the RECIST 1.1 assessed 
by the investigator. Secondary endpoints included DoR, PFS, OS, safety and population 
pharmacokinetics. ORR, DoR and PFS were also assessed by an Independent Review Committee 
(IRC) as a sensitivity analysis. 
Cohorts were enrolled sequentially: 
• 
• 
• 
Cohort A: Monotherapy (dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily), 84 patients enrolled. 78 patients had 
previous systemic treatment for their metastatic disease. 
Cohort B: Combination therapy (dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily and trametinib 2 mg once 
daily), 59 patients enrolled. 57 patients had 1-3 lines of previous systemic treatment for their 
metastatic disease. 2 patients had no previous systemic treatment and were included in the 
analysis for patients enrolled in Cohort C. 
Cohort C: Combination therapy (dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily and trametinib 2 mg once 
daily), 34 patients. All patients received study medicinal product as first-line treatment for 
metastatic disease. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Among the total of 93 patients who were enrolled in the combination therapy cohorts B and C, most 
patients were Caucasian (>90%), and similar female versus male (54% versus 46%), with a median 
age of 64 years in second line or higher patients and 68 years in the first line patients. Most patients 
(94%) enrolled in the combination therapy treated cohorts had an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1. 
26 (28%) had never smoked. The majority of patients had a non-squamous histology. In the previously 
treated population, 38 patients (67%) had one line of systemic anti-cancer therapy for metastatic 
disease. 
At the time of the primary analysis, the primary endpoint of investigator-assessed ORR in the first line 
population was 61.1% (95% CI, 43.5%, 76.9%), and in the previously treated population was 66.7% 
(95% CI, 52.9%, 78.6%). These met the statistical significance to reject the null hypothesis that the 
ORR of dabrafenib in combination with trametinib for this NSCLC population was less than or equal 
to 30%. The ORR results assessed by IRC were consistent with the investigator assessment. The 
efficacy of the combination with trametinib was superior when indirectly compared to dabrafenib 
monotherapy in Cohort A. The final analysis of efficacy performed 5 years after last subject first dose 
is presented in Table 15. 
Table 15 
Summary of efficacy in the combination treatment cohorts based on investigator and 
independent radiology review 
Endpoint 
Analysis 
Combination 1st line 
N=361 
Overall confirmed 
response n (%) 
(95% CI) 
By Investigator 
By IRC 
Median DoR 
Months (95% CI) 
Median PFS 
Months (95% CI) 
Median OS 
Months (95% CI) 
1 Data cut-off: 7 January 2021 
By Investigator 
By IRC 
By Investigator 
By IRC 
- 
QT prolongation 
23 (63.9%) 
(46.2, 79.2) 
23 (63.9%) 
(46.2, 79.2) 
10.2 (8.3, 15.2) 
15.2 (7.8, 23.5) 
10.8 (7.0, 14.5) 
14.6 (7.0, 22.1) 
17.3 (12.3, 40.2) 
Combination 2nd line plus 
N=571 
39 (68.4%) 
(54.8, 80.1) 
36 (63.2%) 
(49.3, 75.6) 
9.8 (6.9, 18.3) 
12.6 (5.8, 26.2) 
10.2 (6.9, 16.7) 
8.6 (5.2, 16.8) 
18.2 (14.3, 28.6) 
Worst-case QTc prolongation of >60 millisecond (msec) was observed in 3% of dabrafenib-treated 
subjects (one >500 msec in the integrated safety population). In the Phase III study MEK115306 no 
patients treated with trametinib in combination with dabrafenib had worst-case QTcB prolongation to 
>500 msec; QTcB was increased more than 60 msec from baseline in 1% (3/209) of patients. In the 
Phase III study MEK116513 four patients (1%) treated with trametinib in combination with dabrafenib 
had a QTcB Grade 3 increase (>500 msec). Two of these patients had a QTcB Grade 3 increase 
(>500 msec) that was also an increase >60 msec from baseline. 
The potential effect of dabrafenib on QT prolongation was assessed in a dedicated multiple dose QT 
study. A supratherapeutic dose of 300 mg dabrafenib twice daily was administered in 32 subjects with 
BRAF V600 mutation-positive tumours. No clinically relevant effect of dabrafenib or its metabolites 
on the QTc interval was observed. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other studies - pyrexia management analysis 
Study CPDR001F2301 (COMBI-i) and Study CDRB436F2410 (COMBI-Aplus) 
Pyrexia is observed in patients treated with dabrafenib and trametinib combination therapy. The initial 
registration studies for the combination therapy in the unresectable or metastatic melanoma setting 
(COMBI-d and COMBI-v; total N=559) and in the adjuvant melanoma setting (COMBI-AD, N=435) 
recommended to interrupt only dabrafenib in case of pyrexia (fever ≥38.5°C). In two subsequent 
studies in unresectable or metastatic melanoma (COMBI-i control arm, N=264) and in the adjuvant 
melanoma setting (COMBI-Aplus, N=552), interruption of both medicinal products when patient’s 
temperature is ≥38oC (COMBI-Aplus), or at the first symptom of pyrexia (COMBI-i; COMBI-Aplus 
for recurrent pyrexia) was advised. In COMBI-i and COMBI-Aplus there was a lower incidence of 
grade 3/4 pyrexia, complicated pyrexia, hospitalisation due to serious pyrexia adverse events of 
special interest (AESIs), the time spent in pyrexia AESIs, and permanent discontinuations from both 
medicinal products due to pyrexia AESIs (the latter in the adjuvant setting only) compared to COMBI-
d, COMBI-v and COMBI-AD. The COMBI-Aplus study met its primary endpoint with a composite 
rate of 8.0% (95% CI: 5.9, 10.6) for grade 3/4 pyrexia, hospitalisation due to pyrexia, or permanent 
treatment discontinuation due to pyrexia compared to 20.0% (95% CI: 16.3, 24.1) for the historical 
control (COMBI-AD). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
dabrafenib in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in melanoma and solid malignant 
tumours (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Dabrafenib is absorbed orally with median time to achieve peak plasma concentration of 2 hours 
post-dose. Mean absolute bioavailability of oral dabrafenib is 95% (90% CI: 81, 110%). Dabrafenib 
exposure (Cmax and AUC) increased in a dose proportional manner between 12 and 300 mg following 
single-dose administration, but the increase was less than dose-proportional after repeat twice daily 
dosing. A decrease in exposure was observed with repeat dosing, likely due to induction of its own 
metabolism. Mean accumulation AUC Day 18/Day 1 ratios was 0.73. Following administration of 
150 mg twice daily, geometric mean Cmax, AUC(0-) and predose concentration (C) were 1478 ng/ml, 
4341 ng*hr/ml and 26 ng/ml, respectively. 
Administration of dabrafenib with food reduced the bioavailability (Cmax and AUC decreased by 51% 
and 31% respectively) and delayed absorption of dabrafenib capsules when compared to the fasted 
state. 
Distribution 
Dabrafenib binds to human plasma protein and is 99.7% bound. The steady-state volume of 
distribution following intravenous microdose administration is 46 L. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
The metabolism of dabrafenib is primarily mediated by CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 to form 
hydroxy-dabrafenib, which is further oxidised via CYP3A4 to form carboxy-dabrafenib. 
Carboxy-dabrafenib can be decarboxylated via a non-enzymatic process to form 
desmethyl-dabrafenib. Carboxy-dabrafenib is excreted in bile and urine. Desmethyl-dabrafenib may 
also be formed in the gut and reabsorbed. Desmethyl-dabrafenib is metabolised by CYP3A4 to 
oxidative metabolites. Hydroxy-dabrafenib terminal half-life parallels that of parent with a half-life of 
10 hrs while the carboxy- and desmethyl-metabolites exhibited longer half-lives (21-22 hours). Mean 
metabolite to parent AUC ratios following repeat-dose administration were 0.9, 11 and 0.7 for 
hydroxy-, carboxy-, and desmethyl-dabrafenib, respectively. Based on exposure, relative potency, and 
pharmacokinetic properties, both hydroxy- and desmethyl-dabrafenib are likely to contribute to the 
clinical activity of dabrafenib while the activity of carboxy-dabrafenib is not likely to be significant. 
In vitro evaluation of drug-drug interaction potential 
Dabrafenib is a substrate of human P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and human BCRP in vitro. However, these 
transporters have minimal impact on dabrafenib oral bioavailability and elimination and the risk for 
clinically relevant drug-drug interactions with inhibitors of Pgp or BCRP is low. Neither dabrafenib 
nor its 3 main metabolites were demonstrated to be inhibitors of Pgp in vitro. 
Although dabrafenib and its metabolites, hydroxy-dabrafenib, carboxy-dabrafenib and 
desmethyl-dabrafenib, were inhibitors of human organic anion transporter (OAT) 1 and OAT3 
in vitro, and dabrafenib and its desmethyl metabolite were found to be inhibitors of organic cation 
transporter 2 (OCT2) in vitro, the risk of a drug-drug interaction at these transporters is minimal based 
on clinical exposure of dabrafenib and its metabolites. 
Elimination 
Terminal half-life of dabrafenib following an intravenous single microdose is 2.6 hours. Dabrafenib 
terminal half-life after a single oral dose is 8 hours due to absorption-limited elimination after oral 
administration (flip-flop pharmacokinetics). IV plasma clearance is 12 l/hr. 
After an oral dose, the major route of elimination of dabrafenib is metabolism, mediated via CYP3A4 
and CYP2C8. Dabrafenib related material is excreted primarily in faeces, with 71% of an oral dose 
recovered in faeces; 23% of the dose was recovered in urine in the form of metabolites only. 
Special patient populations 
Hepatic impairment 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates that mildly elevated bilirubin and/or AST levels 
(based on National Cancer Institute [NCI] classification) do not significantly affect dabrafenib oral 
clearance. In addition, mild hepatic impairment as defined by bilirubin and AST did not have a 
significant effect on dabrafenib metabolite plasma concentrations. No data are available in patients 
with moderate to severe hepatic impairment. As hepatic metabolism and biliary secretion are the 
primary routes of elimination of dabrafenib and its metabolites, administration of dabrafenib should be 
undertaken with caution in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis suggests that mild renal impairment does not affect oral 
clearance of dabrafenib. Although data in moderate renal impairment are limited these data may 
indicate no clinically relevant effect. No data are available in subjects with severe renal impairment 
(see section 4.2). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, age had no significant effect on dabrafenib 
pharmacokinetics. Age greater than 75 years was a significant predictor of carboxy- and 
desmethyl-dabrafenib plasma concentrations with a 40% greater exposure in subjects ≥75 years of age, 
relative to subjects <75 years old. 
Body weight and gender 
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, gender and weight were found to influence 
dabrafenib oral clearance; weight also impacted oral volume of distribution and distributional 
clearance. These pharmacokinetic differences were not considered clinically relevant. 
Race 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of 
dabrafenib between Asian and Caucasian patients. There are insufficient data to evaluate the potential 
effect of other races on dabrafenib pharmacokinetics. 
Paediatric population 
No studies have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of dabrafenib in paediatric 
patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Carcinogenicity studies with dabrafenib have not been conducted. Dabrafenib was not mutagenic or 
clastogenic using in vitro tests in bacteria and cultured mammalian cells, and an in vivo rodent 
micronucleus assay. 
In combined female fertility, early embryonic and embryo-foetal development studies in rats numbers 
of ovarian corpora lutea were reduced in pregnant females at 300 mg/kg/day (approximately 3 times 
human clinical exposure based on AUC), but there were no effects on oestrous cycle, mating or 
fertility indices. Developmental toxicity including embryo-lethality and ventricular septal defects and 
variation in thymic shape were seen at 300 mg/kg/day, and delayed skeletal development and reduced 
foetal body weight at ≥20 mg/kg/day (≥0.5 times human clinical exposure based on AUC). 
Male fertility studies with dabrafenib have not been conducted. However, in repeat dose studies, 
testicular degeneration/depletion was seen in rats and dogs (≥0.2 times the human clinical exposure 
based on AUC). Testicular changes in rat and dog were still present following a 4-week recovery 
period (see section 4.6). 
Cardiovascular effects, including coronary arterial degeneration/necrosis and/or haemorrhage, cardiac 
atrioventricular valve hypertrophy/haemorrhage and atrial fibrovascular proliferation were seen in 
dogs (≥2 times clinical exposure based on AUC). Focal arterial/perivascular inflammation in various 
tissues was observed in mice and an increased incidence of hepatic arterial degeneration and 
spontaneous cardiomyocyte degeneration with inflammation (spontaneous cardiomyopathy) was 
observed in rats (≥0.5 and 0.6 times clinical exposure for rats and mice respectively). Hepatic effects, 
including hepatocellular necrosis and inflammation, were observed in mice (≥0.6 times clinical 
exposure). Bronchoalveolar inflammation of the lungs was observed in several dogs at ≥20 mg/kg/day 
(≥9 times human clinical exposure based on AUC) and was associated with shallow and/or laboured 
breathing. 
Reversible haematological effects have been observed in dogs and rats given dabrafenib. In studies of 
up to 13 weeks, decreases in reticulocyte counts and/or red cell mass were observed in dogs and rats 
(≥10 and 1.4 times clinical exposure, respectively). 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In juvenile toxicity studies in rats, effects on growth (shorter long bone length), renal toxicity (tubular 
deposits, increased incidence of cortical cysts and tubular basophilia and reversible increases in urea 
and/or creatinine concentrations) and testicular toxicity (degeneration and tubular dilation) were 
observed (≥0.2 times adult human clinical exposure based on AUC). 
Dabrafenib was phototoxic in an in vitro mouse fibroblast 3T3 Neutral Red Uptake (NRU) assay and 
in vivo at doses ≥100 mg/kg (>44 times clinical exposure based on Cmax) in an oral phototoxicity study 
in hairless mice. 
Combination with trametinib 
In a study in dogs in which trametinib and dabrafenib were given in combination for 4 weeks, signs of 
gastrointestinal toxicity and decreased lymphoid cellularity of the thymus were observed at lower 
exposures than in dogs given trametinib alone. Otherwise, similar toxicities were observed as in 
comparable monotherapy studies. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule content 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Magnesium stearate 
Colloidal silicone dioxide 
Capsule shell 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Printing ink 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Shellac 
Propylene glycol 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Opaque white high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with polypropylene screw cap and a silica gel 
desiccant. 
Each bottle contains either 28 or 120 hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Tafinlar 50 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/13/865/001 
EU/1/13/865/002 
Tafinlar 75 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/13/865/003 
EU/1/13/865/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 26 August 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 08 May 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d. 
Verovškova ulica 57 
1526, Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovškova ulica 57 
1000, Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
GLAXO WELLCOME, S.A. 
Avda. Extremadura, 3, Pol. Ind. Allendeduero 
09400, Aranda de Duero (Burgos) 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tafinlar 50 mg hard capsules 
dabrafenib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains dabrafenib mesilate equivalent to 50 mg dabrafenib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsule 
28 capsules 
120 capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Contains desiccant, do not remove or eat. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/865/001 
EU/1/13/865/002 
28 capsules 
120 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
tafinlar 50 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tafinlar 50 mg capsules 
dabrafenib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains dabrafenib mesilate equivalent to 50 mg dabrafenib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsule 
28 capsules 
120 capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/865/001 
EU/1/13/865/002 
28 capsules 
120 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tafinlar 75 mg hard capsules 
dabrafenib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains dabrafenib mesilate equivalent to 75 mg dabrafenib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsule 
28 capsules 
120 capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Contains desiccant, do not remove or eat. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/865/003 
EU/1/13/865/004 
28 capsules 
120 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
tafinlar 75 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Tafinlar 75 mg capsules 
dabrafenib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains dabrafenib mesilate equivalent to 75 mg dabrafenib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsule 
28 capsules 
120 capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/865/003 
EU/1/13/865/004 
28 capsules 
120 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Tafinlar 50 mg hard capsules 
Tafinlar 75 mg hard capsules 
dabrafenib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Tafinlar is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Tafinlar 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Tafinlar 
Possible side effects 
How to store Tafinlar 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Tafinlar is and what it is used for 
Tafinlar is a medicine that contains the active substance dabrafenib. It is used either on its own or in 
combination with another medicine containing trametinib in adults to treat a type of skin cancer called 
melanoma that has spread to other parts of the body, or cannot be removed by surgery. 
Tafinlar in combination with trametinib is also used to prevent melanoma from coming back after it 
has been removed by surgery. 
Tafinlar in combination with trametinib is also used to treat a type of lung cancer called non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). 
Both cancers have a particular change (mutation) in a gene called BRAF at the V600 position. This 
mutation in the gene may have caused the cancer to develop. Your medicine targets proteins made 
from this mutated gene and slows down or stops the development of your cancer. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Tafinlar 
Tafinlar should only be used to treat melanomas and NSCLC with the BRAF mutation. Therefore 
before starting treatment your doctor will test for this mutation. 
If your doctor decides that you will receive treatment with the combination of Tafinlar and trametinib, 
read the trametinib leaflet carefully as well as this leaflet. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
Do not take Tafinlar 
• 
if you are allergic to dabrafenib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Check with your doctor if you think this applies to you. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Tafinlar. Your doctor needs to know if you: 
• 
• 
have any liver problems. 
have or have ever had any kidney problems. 
Your doctor may take blood samples to monitor your liver and kidney function while you are 
taking Tafinlar. 
have had a different type of cancer other than melanoma or NSCLC, as you may be at 
greater risk of developing other skin and non-skin cancers when taking Tafinlar. 
• 
Before you take Tafinlar in combination with trametinib your doctor also needs to know if you: 
• 
have heart problems such as heart failure or problems with the way your heart beats. 
• 
have eye problems including blockage of the vein draining the eye (retinal vein occlusion) or 
swelling in the eye which may be caused by fluid leakage (chorioretinopathy). 
have any lung or breathing problems, including difficulty in breathing often accompanied by a 
dry cough, shortness of breath and fatigue. 
have or have had any gastrointestinal problems such as diverticulitis (inflamed pouches in the 
colon) or metastases to the gastrointestinal tract. 
• 
• 
Check with your doctor if you think any of these may apply to you. 
Conditions you may need to look out for 
Some people taking Tafinlar develop other conditions, which can be serious. You need to know about 
important signs and symptoms to look out for while you’re taking this medicine. Some of these 
symptoms (bleeding, fever, changes to your skin and eye problems) are briefly mentioned in this 
section, but more detailed information is found in section 4, “Possible side effects”. 
Bleeding 
Taking Tafinlar in combination with trametinib can cause serious bleeding including in your brain, the 
digestive system (such as stomach, rectum or intestine), lungs, and other organs, and can lead to death. 
Symptoms may include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
headaches, dizziness, or feeling weak 
passing blood in the stools or passing black stools 
passing blood in the urine 
stomach pain 
coughing / vomiting up blood 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you get any of these symptoms. 
Fever 
Taking Tafinlar or the combination of Tafinlar and trametinib may cause fever, although it is more 
likely if you are taking the combination treatment (see also section 4). In some cases, people with 
fever may develop low blood pressure, dizziness or other symptoms. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you get a temperature above 38ºC or if you feel a fever coming on 
while you are taking this medicine. 
Heart disorder 
Tafinlar can cause heart problems, or make existing heart problems worse (see also “Heart conditions” 
in section 4), in people taking Tafinlar in combination with trametinib. 
Tell your doctor if you have a heart disorder. Your doctor will run tests to check that your heart is 
working properly before and during your treatment with Tafinlar in combination with trametinib. Tell 
your doctor immediately if it feels like your heart is pounding, racing, or beating irregularly, or if you 
experience dizziness, tiredness, light-headedness, shortness of breath or swelling in the legs. If 
necessary, your doctor may decide to interrupt your treatment or to stop it altogether. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in your skin which may indicate new skin cancer 
Your doctor will check your skin before you start taking this medicine and regularly while you are 
taking it. Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any changes to your skin while taking this 
medicine or after treatment (see also section 4). 
Eye problems 
You should have your eyes examined by your doctor while you are taking this medicine. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you get eye redness and irritation, blurred vision, eye pain or other 
vision changes during your treatment (see also section 4). 
Tafinlar when given in combination with trametinib can cause eye problems including blindness. 
Trametinib is not recommended if you have ever had blockage of the vein draining the eye (retinal 
vein occlusion). Tell your doctor immediately if you get the following symptoms of eye problems: 
blurred vision, loss of vision or other vision changes, coloured dots in your vision or halos (seeing 
blurred outline around objects) during your treatment. If necessary, your doctor may decide to 
interrupt your treatment or to stop it altogether. 
➔  Read the information about fever, changes in your skin and eye problems in section 4 of 
this leaflet. Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you get any of the signs and symptoms 
listed. 
Liver problems 
Tafinlar in combination with trametinib can cause problems with your liver which may develop into 
serious conditions such as hepatitis and liver failure, which may be fatal. Your doctor will monitor you 
periodically. Signs that your liver may not be working properly may include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
loss of appetite 
feeling sick (nausea) 
being sick (vomiting) 
pain in your stomach (abdomen) 
yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes (jaundice) 
dark-coloured urine 
itching of your skin 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you get any of these symptoms 
Muscle pain 
Tafinlar in combination with trametinib can result in the breakdown of muscle (rhabdomyolysis). Tell 
your doctor as soon as possible if you get any of these symptoms. 
• 
• 
muscle pain 
dark urine due to kidney damage 
If necessary, your doctor may decide to interrupt your treatment or to stop it altogether. 
Hole in the stomach or intestine (perforation) 
Taking the combination of Tafinlar and trametinib may increase the risk of developing holes in the gut 
wall. Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you have severe abdominal pain. 
Serious skin reactions 
Serious skin reactions have been reported in people taking Tafinlar in combination with trametinib. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any changes to your skin (see section 4 for symptoms to be 
aware of). 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inflammatory disease mainly affecting the skin, lung, eyes and lymph nodes 
An inflammatory disease mainly affecting the skin, lung, eyes and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis). 
Common symptoms of sarcoidosis may include coughing, shortness of breath, swollen lymph nodes, 
visual disturbances, fever, fatigue, pain and swelling in the joints and tender bumps on your skin. Tell 
your doctor if you get any of these symptoms. 
Immune system disorders 
Tafinlar in combination with trametinib may in rare instances cause a condition (haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis or HLH) in which the immune system makes too many infection-fighting cells, 
called histiocytes and lymphocytes. Symptoms may include enlarged liver and/or spleen, skin rash, 
lymph node enlargement, breathing problems, easy bruising, kidney abnormalities, and heart 
problems. Tell your doctor immediately if you experience multiple symptoms such as fever, swollen 
lymph glands, bruising or skin rash, at the same time. 
Children and adolescents 
Tafinlar is not recommended for children and adolescents. The effects of Tafinlar in people younger 
than 18 years old are not known. 
Other medicines and Tafinlar 
Before starting treatment, tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken 
or might take any other medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Some medicines may affect how Tafinlar works, or make it more likely that you will have side effects. 
Tafinlar can also affect how some other medicines work. These include: 
• 
birth control medicines (contraceptives) containing hormones, such as pills, injections, or 
patches 
warfarin and acenocoumarol, medicines used to thin the blood 
digoxin, used to treat heart conditions 
medicines to treat fungal infections, such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and 
posaconazole 
some calcium channel blockers, used to treat high blood pressure, such as diltiazem, 
felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine or verapamil 
medicines to treat cancer, such as cabazitaxel 
some medicines to lower fat (lipids) in the blood stream, such as gemfibrozil 
some medicines used to treat certain psychiatric conditions, such as haloperidol 
some antibiotics, such as clarithromycin, doxycyline and telithromycin 
some medicines for tuberculosis (TB), such as rifampicin 
some medicines that reduce cholesterol levels, such as atorvastatin and simvastatin 
some immunosuppressants, such as cyclosporin, tacrolimus and sirolimus 
some anti-inflammatory medicines, such as dexamethasone and methylprednisolone 
some medicines to treat HIV, such as ritonavir, amprenavir, indinavir, darunavir, delavirdine, 
efavirenz, fosamprenavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, tipranavir, saquinavir and atazanavir 
some medicines used for pain relief, such as fentanyl and methadone 
medicines to treat seizures (epilepsy), such as phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic 
acid or carbamazepine 
antidepressant medicines such as nefazodone and the herbal medicine St John’s wort 
(Hypericum perforatum) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
➔  Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of these (or if you are not sure). 
Your doctor may decide to adjust your dose. 
Keep a list of the medicines you take, so you can show it to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Tafinlar is not recommended during pregnancy. 
• 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse for advice before taking this medicine. Tafinlar is not recommended during 
pregnancy, since it may potentially harm an unborn baby. 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you must use a reliable birth control method 
while you are taking Tafinlar and for at least 2 weeks after you stop taking it and for at least 
16 weeks following the last dose of trametinib when given in combination with Tafinlar. 
Birth control medicines containing hormones (such as pills, injections or patches) may not work 
as well while you are taking Tafinlar or combination treatment (Tafinlar as well as trametinib). 
You need to use another effective method of birth control so you do not become pregnant while 
you are taking this medicine. Ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse for advice. 
If you do become pregnant while you are taking this medicine, tell your doctor immediately. 
• 
• 
• 
Tafinlar is not recommended while breast-feeding. 
It is not known whether the ingredients of this medicine can pass into breast milk. 
If you are breast-feeding, or planning to breast-feed, you must tell your doctor. You and your doctor 
will decide if you will take this medicine or breast-feed. 
Fertility – both men and women 
Animal studies have shown that the active substance dabrafenib may permanently reduce male 
fertility. In addition, men who are taking Tafinlar may have a reduced sperm count and their sperm 
count may not return to normal levels after they stop taking this medicine. 
Prior to starting treatment with Tafinlar, talk to your doctor about options to improve your chances to 
have children in the future. 
Taking Tafinlar with trametinib: trametinib may impair fertility in both men and women. 
If you have any further questions on the effect of this medicine on sperm count, ask your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse. 
Driving and using machines 
Tafinlar can have side effects that may affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
Avoid driving or using machines if you have problems with your vision or if you feel tired or weak, or 
if your energy levels are low. 
Descriptions of these effects can be found in sections 2 and 4. 
Discuss with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are unsure about anything. Even your disease, 
symptoms and treatment situation may affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
3. 
How to take Tafinlar 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you to. Check with 
your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
How much to take 
The usual dose of Tafinlar either used alone or in combination with trametinib is two 75 mg capsules 
twice a day (corresponding to a daily dose of 300 mg). The recommended dose of trametinib, when 
used in combination with Tafinlar, is 2 mg once a day. 
Your doctor may decide that you should take a lower dose if you get side effects. 
Tafinlar are also available as 50 mg capsules if a dose reduction is recommended. 
Don’t take more Tafinlar than your doctor has recommended, since this may increase the risk of 
side effects. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to take it 
Swallow the capsules whole with water, one after the other. 
Don’t chew or crush the capsules, since they will otherwise lose their effect. 
Take Tafinlar twice a day, on an empty stomach. This means that 
• 
• 
after taking Tafinlar, you must wait at least 1 hour before eating, or 
after eating, you must wait at least 2 hours before taking Tafinlar. 
Take Tafinlar in the morning and evening, about 12 hours apart. Take your morning and evening doses 
of Tafinlar at the same times every day. This will increase the chance of remembering to take the 
capsules. 
Don’t take the morning and evening doses of Tafinlar at the same time. 
If you take more Tafinlar than you should 
If you take too many capsules of Tafinlar, contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse for advice. If 
possible, show them the Tafinlar pack with this leaflet. 
If you forget to take Tafinlar 
If the missed dose is less than 6 hours late, take it as soon as you remember. 
If the missed dose is more than 6 hours late, skip that dose and take your next dose at the usual time. 
Then carry on taking your capsules at regular times as usual. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Tafinlar 
Take Tafinlar for as long as your doctor recommends. Do not stop unless your doctor, pharmacist or 
nurse advises you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
How should you take Tafinlar in combination with trametinib 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Take Tafinlar in combination with trametinib exactly as your doctor, nurse or pharmacist tells 
you. Do not change your dose or stop Tafinlar or trametinib unless your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist tells you to. 
Take Tafinlar twice daily and take trametinib once daily. It may be good for you to get into 
the habit of taking both medicines at the same times each day. The Tafinlar doses should be 
about 12 hours apart. Trametinib when given in combination with Tafinlar should be taken with 
either the morning dose of Tafinlar or the evening dose of Tafinlar. 
Take Tafinlar and trametinib on an empty stomach, at least one hour before or two hours after a 
meal. Take whole with a full glass of water. 
If you miss a dose of Tafinlar or trametinib, take it as soon as you remember. Do not make up 
for missed doses and just take your next dose at your regular time: 
o 
If it is less than 6 hours to your next scheduled dose of Tafinlar, which is taken twice 
daily. 
If it is less than 12 hours to your next scheduled dose of trametinib, which is taken once 
daily. 
o 
If you take too much Tafinlar or trametinib, immediately contact your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist. Take Tafinlar capsules and trametinib tablets with you when possible. If possible, 
show them the Tafinlar and trametinib pack with each leaflet. 
If you get side effects your doctor may decide that you should take lower doses of Tafinlar and / 
or trametinib. Take the doses of Tafinlar and trametinib exactly as your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist tells you. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Possible serious side effects 
Bleeding problems 
Tafinlar can cause serious bleeding problems, especially in your brain when taken in combination with 
trametinib. Call your doctor or nurse and get medical help right away if you have any unusual signs of 
bleeding, including: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
headaches, dizziness, or weakness 
coughing up of blood or blood clots 
vomit containing blood or that looks like “coffee grounds” 
red or black stools that look like tar 
Fever 
Taking Tafinlar may cause fever in more than 1 in 10 people. Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse 
immediately if you get a fever (temperature 38ºC or above) or if you feel a fever coming on while 
you are taking this medicine. They will carry out tests to find out if there are other causes for the 
fever and treat the problem. 
In some cases, people with fever may develop low blood pressure and dizziness. If the fever is severe, 
your doctor may recommend that you stop taking Tafinlar, or Tafinlar and trametinib, while they treat 
the fever with other medicines. Once the fever is controlled, your doctor may recommend that you 
start taking Tafinlar again. 
Heart conditions 
Tafinlar can affect how well your heart pumps blood when taken in combination with trametinib. It is 
more likely to affect people who have an existing heart problem. You will be checked for any heart 
problems while you are taking Tafinlar in combination with trametinib. Signs and symptoms of heart 
problems include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
feeling like your heart is pounding, racing, or beating irregularly 
dizziness 
tiredness 
feeling lightheaded 
shortness of breath 
swelling in the legs 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you get any of these symptoms, either for the first time or if 
they get worse. 
Changes in your skin 
Serious skin reactions have been reported in people taking Tafinlar in combination with trametinib 
(frequency not known). If you notice any of the following: 
• 
reddish patches on the trunk that are circular or target-shaped, with central blisters. Skin 
peeling. Ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. These serious skin rashes can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). 
widespread rash, fever, and enlarged lymph nodes (DRESS-syndrome or drug hypersensitivity 
syndrome). 
➔ 
stop using the medicine and seek medical attention immediately. 
• 
Patients taking Tafinlar may commonly (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) develop a different type of 
skin cancer called cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cuSCC). Others may develop a type of skin 
cancer called basal cell carcinoma (BCC). Usually, these skin changes remain local and can be 
removed with surgery and treatment with Tafinlar can be continued without interruption. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some people taking Tafinlar may also notice that new melanomas have appeared. These melanomas 
are usually removed by surgery and treatment with Tafinlar can be continued without interruption. 
Your doctor will check your skin before you start taking Tafinlar, then check it again every month 
while you are taking this medicine and for 6 months after you stop taking it. This is to look for any 
new skin cancers. 
Your doctor will also check your head, your neck, your mouth, your lymph glands and you will have 
scans of your chest and stomach area (called CT scans) regularly. You may also have blood tests. 
These checks are to detect if any other cancer, including squamous cell carcinoma, develops inside 
your body. Pelvic examinations (for women) and anal examinations are also recommended before and 
at the end of your treatment. 
Check your skin regularly whilst taking Tafinlar 
If you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
new wart 
skin sore or reddish bump that bleeds or does not heal 
change of a mole in size or colour 
➔  Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse as soon as possible if you get any of these 
symptoms - either for the first time or if they get worse. 
Skin reactions (rash) can happen while taking Tafinlar in combination with trametinib. Talk to your 
doctor if you get a skin rash while taking Tafinlar in combination with trametinib. 
Eye problems 
Patients taking Tafinlar alone can uncommonly (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) develop an eye 
problem called uveitis, which could damage your vision if it is not treated. This may occur commonly 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) in patients taking Tafinlar in combination with trametinib. 
Uveitis may develop rapidly and the symptoms include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
eye redness and irritation 
blurred vision 
eye pain 
increased sensitivity to light 
floating spots before the eyes 
➔  Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately if you get these symptoms. 
Tafinlar can cause eye problems when taken in combination with trametinib. Trametinib is not 
recommended if you have ever had a blockage of the vein draining the eye (retinal vein occlusion). 
Your doctor may advise an eye examination before you take Tafinlar in combination with trametinib 
and while you are taking it. Your doctor may ask you to stop taking trametinib or refer you to a 
specialist, if you develop signs and symptoms in your vision that include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
loss of vision 
eye redness and irritation 
coloured dots in your vision 
halo (seeing a blurred outline around objects) 
blurred vision 
➔  Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately if you get these symptoms. 
It is very important to tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately if you develop these 
symptoms, especially if you have a painful, red eye that does not clear up quickly. They may arrange 
for you to see a specialist eye doctor for a complete eye examination. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune system disorders 
If you experience multiple symptoms such as fever, swollen lymph glands, bruising or skin rash, at the 
same time, tell your doctor immediately. It may be a sign of a condition where the immune system 
makes too many infection-fighting cells called histiocytes and lymphocytes that may cause various 
symptoms (called haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis), see section 2 (frequency rare). 
Possible side effects in patients taking Tafinlar alone 
The side effects that you may see when you take Tafinlar alone are as follows: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Papilloma (a type of skin tumour which is usually not harmful) 
Decreased appetite 
Headache 
Cough 
Feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) 
Diarrhoea 
Thickening of the outer layers of the skin 
Unusual hair loss or thinning 
Rash 
Reddening and swelling of the palms, fingers and soles of the feet (see “Changes in your skin” 
earlier in section 4) 
Joint pain, muscle pain, or pain in the hands or feet 
Fever (see “Fever” earlier in section 4) 
Lack of energy 
Chills 
Feeling weak 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Skin effects including cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer), wart-like 
growths, skin tags, uncontrolled skin growths or lesions (basal cell carcinoma), dry skin, itching 
or redness of skin, patches of thick, scaly, or crusty skin (actinic keratosis), skin lesions, skin 
reddening, increased sensitivity of the skin to sun 
Constipation 
Flu-like illness 
Problem with the nerves that can produce pain, loss of sensation or tingling in hands and feet 
and/or muscle weakness (peripheral neuropathy) 
• 
• 
• 
Common side effects that may show up in your blood tests 
• 
• 
Low levels of phosphate (hypophosphataemia) in the blood 
Increase in blood sugar level (hyperglycaemia) 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
New melanoma 
Allergic reaction (hypersensitivity) 
Inflammation of the eye (uveitis, see “Eye problems” earlier in section 4)) 
Inflammation of the pancreas (causing strong abdominal pain) 
Inflammation of the fatty layer under the skin (panniculitis) 
Kidney problems, kidney failure 
Inflammation of kidneys 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Possible side effects when Tafinlar and trametinib are taken together 
When you take Tafinlar and trametinib together you may get any of the side effects given in the lists 
above, although the frequency may change (increase or decrease). 
You may also get additional side effects due to taking trametinib at the same time as Tafinlar. 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you get any of these symptoms, either for the first time or if 
they get worse. 
Please also read the trametinib package leaflet for details of the side effects you may get with 
trametinib. 
The side effects that you may see when you take Tafinlar in combination with trametinib are as 
follows: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Nasal and throat inflammation 
Decreased appetite 
Headache 
Dizziness 
High blood pressure (hypertension) 
Bleeding, at various sites in the body, which may be mild or serious (haemorrhage) 
Cough 
Stomach ache 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) 
Rash, dry skin, itching, skin reddening 
Joint pain, muscle pain, or pain in the hands or feet 
Muscle spasms 
Lack of energy, feeling weak 
Chills 
Swelling of the hands or feet (oedema peripheral) 
Fever 
Flu-like illness 
Very common side effects that may show up in your blood tests 
• 
Abnormal blood test results related to the liver 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
Infection of the urinary system 
Skin effects including infection of the skin (cellulitis), inflammation of hair follicles in the skin, 
nail disorders such as nail bed changes, nail pain, infection and swelling of the cuticles, skin 
rash with pus-filled blisters, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer), 
papilloma (a type of skin tumour which is usually not harmful), wart-like growths, increased 
sensitivity of the skin to sun (see also “Changes in your skin” earlier in section 4) 
Dehydration (low levels of water or fluid) 
Blurred vision, eyesight problems, inflammation of the eye (uveitis) 
Heart pumping less efficiently 
Low blood pressure (hypotension) 
Localised tissue swelling 
Shortness of breath 
Dry mouth 
Sore mouth or mouth ulcers, inflammation of mucous membranes 
Acne-like problems 
Thickening of the outer layer of the skin (hyperkeratosis), patches of thick, scaly, or crusty skin 
(actinic keratosis), chapping or cracking of the skin 
Increased sweating, night sweats 
Unusual hair loss or thinning 
Red, painful hands and feet 
Inflammation of the fatty layer under the skin (panniculitis) 
Inflammation of the mucosa 
Swelling of the face 
Problem with the nerves that can produce pain, loss of sensation or tingling in hands and feet 
and/or muscle weakness (peripheral neuropathy) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Common side effects that may show up in your blood tests 
• 
• 
Low levels of white blood cells 
Decrease in number of red blood cells (anaemia), blood platelets (cells that help blood to clot), 
and a type of white blood cells (leukopenia) 
Low levels of sodium (hyponatraemia) or phosphate (hypophosphataemia) in the blood 
Increase in blood sugar level 
Increase in creatine phosphokinase, an enzyme found mainly in heart, brain, and skeletal muscle 
Increase in some substances (enzymes) produced by the liver 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
Appearance of new skin cancer (melanoma) 
• 
Skin tags 
• 
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity) 
• 
Eye changes including swelling in the eye caused by fluid leakage (chorioretinopathy), 
separation of the light-sensitive membrane in the back of the eye (the retina) from its supporting 
layers (retinal detachment) and swelling around the eyes 
Heart rate that is lower than the normal range and/or a decrease in heart rate 
Inflammation of the lung (pneumonitis) 
Inflammation of pancreas 
Inflammation of the intestines (colitis) 
Kidney failure 
Inflammation of the kidneys 
Inflammatory disease mainly affecting the skin, lung, eyes and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people) 
• 
A hole (perforation) in the stomach or intestines 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
Inflammation of the heart muscle (myocarditis) which can result in breathlessness, fever, 
palpitations and chest pain 
Inflamed, flaky skin (exfoliative dermatitis) 
• 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Tafinlar 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle label and the carton after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Tafinlar contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is dabrafenib. Each hard capsule contains dabrafenib mesilate equivalent 
to 50 mg or 75 mg of dabrafenib. 
The other ingredients are: microcrystalline cellulose, magnesium stearate, colloidal silicone 
dioxide, red iron oxide (E172), titanium dioxide (E171), and hypromellose (E464). Further, the 
capsules are printed with black ink that contains black iron oxide (E172) shellac and propylene 
glycol. 
What Tafinlar looks like and contents of the pack 
Tafinlar 50 mg hard capsules are opaque dark red and imprinted with “GS TEW” and “50 mg”. 
Tafinlar 75 mg hard capsules are opaque dark pink and imprinted with “GS LHF” and “75 mg”. 
The bottles are opaque white plastic with threaded plastic closures. 
The bottles also include a silica gel desiccant in a small cylinder shaped container. The desiccant must 
be kept inside the bottle and must not be eaten. 
Tafinlar 50 mg and 75 mg hard capsules are available in packs containing 28 or 120 capsules. Not all 
pack sizes may be marketed in your country. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d. 
Verovškova ulica 57 
1526, Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovškova ulica 57 
1000, Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. 
Avda. Extremadura, 3 
09400 Aranda De Duero 
Burgos 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 555 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
