Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation(s) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for osimertinib, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Six cases of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) were identified by the MAH, and while some cases 
have limitations or are confounded by concomitant medications, there is a positive temporal 
relationship between the start of treatment with osimertinib and the onset of the event (when 
reported). Considering the possibility of a class effect, the seriousness of the event of SJS and the 
importance of early recognition and prompt discontinuation of suspected medication and medical 
intervention, it is recommended to update the Product Information to include SJS in the list of 
ADRs and to introduce a relevant warning. 
The MAH has provided a review of cases of reoccurrence of osimertinib-related Interstitial lung 
disease (ILD) when osimertinib was either reintroduced or not discontinued. The provided review 
led to the conclusions that some patients do benefit from reintroduction of osimertinib therapy. 
ILD is a known risk for other class products approved for NSCLC indication with a recommendation 
for discontinuation in case of ILD but not for “permanent” discontinuation. Considering the possible 
efficacy advantages of osimertinib and that other alternative therapies (including chemotherapy) 
also carry the risk of ILD toxicity with inferior efficacy, the Product Information should be updated 
to remove the recommendation for permanent discontinuation of osimertinib and to instead allow 
the possibility for reintroduction of osimertinib. 
As requested, the MAH provided information on cardiac failure related to osimertinib. More data is 
necessary in order to firmly establish a causal relationship between osimertinib and cardiac 
failure/decreased cardiac contractility and this remains an important potential risk for osimertinib. 
However, in view of the accumulating evidence, the statement in section 4.4 of the SmPC ‘Based 
on the available clinical trial data, it is not possible to determine a causal relationship between 
effects on changes in cardiac contractility and TAGRISSO’ should be removed. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for osimertinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing osimertinib is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
