21 July 2022 
EMA/797953/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): osimertinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010472/202111 
Period covered by the PSUR: 13/11/2019 To: 12/11/2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for osimertinib, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on aplastic anaemia from clinical trials, the literature, spontaneous reports 
including in 4 cases a supportive temporal relationship and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the 
PRAC considers a causal relationship between osimertinib and aplastic anaemia is at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing osimertinib should be 
amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on left ventricular ejection fraction decreased from clinical trials, the literature, 
spontaneous reports including in some cases a close temporal relationship, and a positive de-challenge, the 
PRAC considers a causal relationship between osimertinib and left ventricular ejection fraction decreased is 
at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing 
osimertinib should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on cardiac failure from clinical trials, the literature, spontaneous reports including 
in some cases, a positive de-challenge or re-challenge, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between 
osimertinib and cardiac failure is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product 
information of products containing osimertinib should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for osimertinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing osimertinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/797953/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
