This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for TAGRISSO™ (osimertinib). The 
RMP details important risks of TAGRISSO, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  the  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing  information)  of 
TAGRISSO™. 
The TAGRISSO™ summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  TAGRISSO™ 
should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  TAGRISSO™  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  the 
TAGRISSO™ RMP. 
I: 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
TAGRISSO™  is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  locally  advanced  or 
metastatic epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) T790M mutation-positive non-small cell 
lung  cancer  (NSCLC),  the  first-line  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  locally  advanced  or 
metastatic NSCLC with activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations or the 
adjuvant treatment after complete tumour resection in adult patients with non-small cell lung 
cancer  (NSCLC)  whose  tumours  have  epidermal  growth  factor  receptor  (EGFR)  exon  19 
deletion  or  exon  21  (L858R)  substitution  mutations.  It  contains  osimertinib  as  the  active 
substance and it is given as a 40mg or 80mg tablet for once daily oral administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of TAGRISSO can be found in the 
TAGRISSO EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website 
(http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/004124/h
uman_med_001961.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124). 
II:  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important  risks  of  TAGRISSO™,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about the risks of TAGRISSO™, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II: 1  LIST OF IMPORTANT RISKS AND MISSING INFORMATION 
Important  risks  of  TAGRISSO™  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  TAGRISSO™.  Potential  risks  are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
• 
Interstitial lung disease 
Important potential risks 
•  Cardiac failure 
Missing information 
•  None 
II: 2  SUMMARY OF IMPORTANT RISKS 
This section presents a summary of important identified risks, important potential risks and 
missing information.  
Table 2 
Important identified risks 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) 
Evidence  for  linking  the 
risk to the medicine  
The  development  of  ILD-like  events  was  prospectively  identified  as  a 
potential  safety  concern  from  a  review  of  the  use  of  other  EGFR  TKI 
medications and was therefore considered a topic of special interest in the 
osimertinib clinical development programme.  Following evaluation of all 
available data, ILD was added as a listed ADR in Section 4.8 (Undesirable 
effects) of the osimertinib SmPC, and wording  relating to the detection 
and management of potential/confirmed events of ILD was implemented 
in Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use) and Section 4.2 
(Posology and method of administration). 
The  recent  ADAURA  placebo-controlled  trial  provides  conclusive 
evidence  of  the  osimertinib-related  nature  of  ILD  observed  in  these 
patients.  No  patients  in  the  placebo  arm  were  diagnosed  with  ILD,  as 
opposed to 10 patients in the osimertinib arm who were diagnosed with 
ILD. All reported events were considered to be either mild or moderate in 
severity (6 patients [1.8%] with maximum CTCAE Grade 1 events, and 4 
patients [1.2%] with maximum CTCAE Grade 2 events), and all patients 
were reported to have recovered. Only 1 event was reported as an SAE 
(due to hospitalisation). 
 
 
Table 2 
Important identified risks 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
ILD  has  been  noted  as  a  potentially  life-threatening  complication  of 
treatment  with  other  EGFR  TKI  medications  (erlotinib,  gefitinib  and 
afatinib), and is typically observed within the first month of therapy.  Risk 
factors  include  previous  chemotherapy  treatment,  previous  radiation 
therapy  to  the  lungs,  pre-existing  parenchymal  lung  disease,  metastatic 
lung disease, and concomitant pulmonary infection (Cataldo et al 2011).  
Kudoh and colleagues report that other risk factors of ILD include older 
age,  poor  ECOG  performance  status  (≥2),  smoking,  recent  NSCLC 
diagnosis,  reduced  normal  lung  on  CT  scan,  pre-existing  chronic  ILD, 
concurrent cardiac disease, and Japanese ethnicity (Kudoh et al 2008). 
In a case control study of 227 ILD patients from the Lung Tissue Research 
Consortium based in the US, an EGFR mutation associated with EGFR 
level  changes  and  increased  cancer  risk,  also  demonstrated  an  elevated 
risk of ILD (OR=1.33, 95% CI=1.07–1.66, P=0.0099) with the A allele 
frequency being significantly higher in the cases (64%) than the controls 
(57%).  The genotype association remained significant after adjusting for 
age and gender (P=0.0087) (Li et al 2014a). 
The  relationship  between  potential  risk  factors  for  developing  ILD  in 
patients  who  receive  TAGRISSO™  treatment  has  been  explored  using 
simple  univariate  analyses  for  specific  risk  factors  (as  identified  from 
literature)  presenting  the  ILD  rate  in  each  level  of  the  factor  with 
unadjusted Odds Ratios (OR) and corresponding 95% CIs comparing the 
ILD  rate  between  levels  of  the  factor.  Due  to  the  low  number  of  ILD 
events it is difficult to discern any clear differences. Variability in the risk 
of ILD is observed across potential risk factors but all confidence intervals 
are  wide  and  overlapping.  The  only  factor  that  demonstrated  an  Odds 
Ratio (OR) with a lower bound 95% CI above 1 was ethnicity, with the 
risk of developing ILD in Japanese Asian patients being somewhat higher 
than for patients of non-Asian ethnicity in rest of world (ROW): OR 3.50, 
95% CI (1.48, 8.28). 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
• 
•  SmPC  Section  4.2  (Posology  and  method  of  administration)  and 
 SmPC Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects). 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and special precautions for use). 
Table 3 
Important potential risks 
Cardiac failure 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine  
In the in vitro pharmacology studies, osimertinib and metabolites AZ5104 
and AZ7550 were shown to inhibit HER2 (also known as erbB2) in the 
context  of  cancer  cell  lines.  HER2  inhibition  has  previously  been 
associated with a potential risk of a decrease in LVEF in some patients 
given  trastuzumab  following  anthracycline-based  therapy  (Ewer  and 
O'Shaughnessy 2007); however, analyses of LVEF in more recent HER2 
small molecule inhibitors, including irreversible inhibitors, shows the link 
between HER2 inhibition and LVEF decrease is not conclusive (Ades et 
al  2014,  Ewer  et  al  2014,  Perez  et  al  2008).  Additionally,  more  recent 
 
Table 3 
Important potential risks 
Cardiac failure 
HER2 inhibitors (e.g. afatinib) have been shown not to be associated with 
this risk (Ewer et al 2015). 
Whilst there is no direct evidence that inhibition of erbB2 is linked with 
cardiac failure or LVEF decreases, the understanding of the role of erbB2 
inhibitors in cardiac function is not fully elucidated, and there is therefore 
a  potential  risk  of  a  role  for  erbB2  in  the  stress/recovery  response  to 
cardiac  damage  (e.g.  myocardial  infarction).  In  consideration  of  this 
mechanistic  hypothesis,  AstraZeneca,  in  consultation  with  internal  and 
external experts, put in place a clinical cardiac monitoring plan in order to 
evaluate the potential impact of osimertinib on LVEF. Routine monitoring 
of  AEs,  including  external  cardiologist  review,  assess  a  potential  drug 
involvement in the aetiology and recovery of cardiac events. 
Upon  review  of  the  data  obtained  in  the  AURA3  study,  a  numerical 
imbalance in the number of patients with an AE from the Cardiac failure 
or  Cardiomyopathy  SMQs,  and  in  LVEF  decreases  between  the  2 
treatment  arms  (TAGRISSO™  versus  chemotherapy)  was  noted.  A 
similar  numerical  imbalance  was  also  noted  between  treatment  arms 
(TAGRISSO™ versus standard of care therapy [erlotinib or gefitinib]) 
in  the  FLAURA  study.  However,  in  a  placebo  controlled  trial 
(ADAURA),  there  was  no  difference  between  treatment  arms  in  the 
number of patients who experienced LVEF decreases greater than or equal 
to  10  percentage  points  and  a  drop  to  less  than  50%  in  either  patients 
treated with TAGRISSO™ or patients treated with placebo, 1.5% (5/337); 
1.5% (5/343), respectively. 
Based  on  the  complete  body  of  evidence  available,  the  overall 
interpretation does not support a causal relationship between osimertinib 
and changes in cardiac contractility manifesting as either LVEF decreases 
or heart failure. Nevertheless, considering the potential impact of LVEF 
decreases on individual patients with concurrent cardiac risk factors, and 
as  a  drug  effect  cannot  be  ruled  out  completely,  the  potential  risk  of 
cardiac failure (so named to reflect a potential adverse clinical outcome 
measure of changes in cardiac contractility) remains under evaluation as 
an important potential risk. 
Risk  factors  for  the  development  of  cardiac  failure  (NHLBI,  2017) 
include: 
•  Age (increased risk in patients over 65 years) and race (increased risk 
in Black patients compared to those from other races) 
•  Other  cardiac  conditions  such  as  arrhythmia,  cardiomyopathy, 
congenital heart defects, or cardiac valve disease 
•  Coronary heart disease 
•  Previous cardiac damage from myocardial infarction 
•  Diabetes or other metabolic diseases 
•  Severe obesity 
•  Long-term alcoholism or drug abuse 
•  Long-term high blood pressure 
•  Prior  cancer  treatments,  e.g.  anthracyclines  or  radiotherapy  to  the 
chest 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Table 3 
Important potential risks 
Cardiac failure 
In order to facilitate the assessment of potential risks factors for change 
in  LVEF  measurements  (as  a  precursor  to  the  undesirable  clinical 
outcome of cardiac failure) in osimertinib-treated patients, an exposure-
response  analysis,  designed  to  explore a  potential  relationship  between 
osimertinib PK exposure and decrease in minimum or maximum change 
from baseline LVEF measurement and LVEF events using data from the 
AURA,  AURA2,  AURA3  and  FLAURA  studies  was  performed.    The 
analysis  did  not  identify  any  covariates  potentially  confounding  the 
exposure-to-LVEF event probability relationship, although there was an 
indication that patients of White ethnicity have a higher LVEF event risk 
than Asians or other ethnicities.  Several covariates of medical history, 
i.e.,  hypertension,  statin  use,  diabetes,  ischemic  heart  disease,  heart 
failure, coronary artery disease, hypothyroidism, and hypoalbuminemia 
were  also  tested.  An  indication  for  relationship  with  LVEF  event 
probability was not identified for any of these covariates.  Medical history 
of myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy, and  aortic stenosis were not 
considered as there were only very small numbers of occurrences. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.4 (Special warnings and special precautions for use). 
Table 4 
Missing information 
There are currently no outstanding items of missing information for TAGRISSO. 
II: 3  POST AUTHORISATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN 
  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following study is a condition of the marketing authorisation for TAGRISSO in the EU. 
D5164C00001  (ADAURA):  A  Phase  III,  Double-blind,  Randomized,  Placebo-Controlled 
Multi-centre, study to assess the efficacy and safety of AZD9291 versus Placebo, in Patients 
with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Mutation Positive Stage IB-IIIA Non-small Cell Lung 
Carcinoma, following Complete Tumour Resection With or Without Adjuvant Chemotherapy. 
Purpose of study:  
Primary objective: 
To assess the efficacy of AZD9291 compared to placebo as measured by disease free survival 
(DFS). (Primary outcome measure includes DFS by investigator assessment). 
 Secondary objectives: 
To further assess the efficacy of AZD9291 compared with placebo. (Secondary outcome 
measures include DFS rate at 2, 3, 4 & 5 years, Overall Survival (OS), and OS rate at 2,3,4 
and 5 years at the time of primary analysis). 
Exploratory objectives: 
 
 
To further assess the efficacy of AZD9291 compared with placebo (Exploratory outcome 
measures included OS and OS rate at 2, 3, 4, and 5 years). 
To assess the efficacy of AZD9291 in patients with confirmed baseline T790M status (positive 
/ negative) using a high sensitivity method yet to be determined (retrospective). Exploratory 
outcome measures included DFS by investigator assessment and OS. 
  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no other studies planned or ongoing in the post-authorisation development plan. 
 
