22 November 2018 
EMA/809232/2018  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Takhzyro (recombinant human IgG1 kappa light chain monoclonal antibody 
targeting plasma kallikrein) 
Treatment of hereditary angioedema 
EU/3/15/1551 (EMA/OD/075/15) 
Sponsor: Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited  
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
COMP position adopted on 26 October 2018 .............................................. 16 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 2/17 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
Recombinant human IgG1 kappa light chain 
monoclonal antibody targeting plasma kallikrein 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Lanadelumab 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of hereditary angioedema 
Solution for injection 
Subcutaneous use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
B06AC05 
Sponsor’s details: 
Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited  
Block 2 & 3 Miesian Plaza 
50 – 58 Baggot Street Lower  
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Dyax Ltd  
3 September 2015 
9 October 2015 
EU/3/15/1551 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Dyax Ltd to Shire Pharmaceuticals 
Ireland Limited – EC decision of 16 November 2017 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
K. Dunder, J. Emmerich 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited  
12 March 2018 
29 March 2018 
EMA/H/C/004806/0000 
Takhzyro 
Takhzyro is indicated for routine prevention of 
recurrent attacks of hereditary angioedema (HAE) in 
patients aged 12 years and older. 
Further information on Takhzyro can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports  
CHMP opinion date 
18 October 2018 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
M. Možina/ D. Matusevicius 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
16 August 2018 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
18 September 2018 
questions via written procedure 
Oral explanation  
COMP opinion date 
10 October 2018 
26 October 2018 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 3/17 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2015 was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing recombinant human IgG1 
kappa light chain monoclonal antibody targeting plasma kallikrein was considered justified based 
on preliminary clinical data showing reduction of angioedema attack rates in treated patients; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to recurrent attacks of oedema in 
various parts of the body that may cause airway obstruction leading to asphyxia; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 0.5 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time the application was made. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in 
the European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the 
medicinal product containing recombinant human IgG1 kappa light chain monoclonal antibody 
targeting plasma kallikrein may be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The 
sponsor has provided preliminary clinical data showing a reduction in angioedema attack rates 
comparing favourably with the data reported for existing products. The Committee considered that 
this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage for the patients affected by hereditary angioedema. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The therapeutic indication “Takhzyro is indicated for routine prevention of attacks of hereditary 
angioedema (HAE) in patients aged 12 years and older” falls within the scope of the designated orphan 
indication “treatment of hereditary angioedema”.  
Angioedema is oedema of the deep dermis and subcutaneous tissues. It is usually an acute mast cell–
mediated reaction caused by exposure to drug, venom, dietary, pollen or animal dander allergens. 
Angioedema can also be an acute reaction to ACE inhibitors, a chronic reaction, or a hereditary or an 
acquired disorder characterized by an abnormal complement response. The main symptom is swelling, 
which can be severe. Diagnosis is by examination. 
Acute angioedema is mast cell–mediated in > 90% of cases. Mast cell–mediated mechanisms include 
acute allergic, typically IgE-mediated reactions. IgE-mediated angioedema is usually accompanied by 
acute urticaria. It may often be caused by the same allergens (e.g., drug, venom, dietary, extracted 
allergens) that are responsible for acute IgE-mediated urticaria. 
The cause of chronic (> 6 weeks) angioedema is usually unknown. IgE-mediated mechanisms are rare, 
but chronic ingestion of an unsuspected drug or chemical (e.g., penicillin in milk, a non-prescription 
drug, preservatives, other food additives) is sometimes the cause. A few cases are due to hereditary or 
acquired C1 inhibitor deficiency. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 4/17 
 
 
 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment, the intention to treat the condition has been justified. Please see 
EPAR scientific document. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
There have been no changes in the seriousness of the condition since the time of orphan designation. 
HAE is unpredictable in nature with substantial variation in the frequency and the age of onset of 
attacks. Attack patterns vary with age and may affect a single site or multiple sites. Patients with 
symptomatic HAE generally experience at least one acute exacerbation per month. Most attacks of HAE 
last 2 to 5 days, resulting in 20 to 100 days of incapacitation per year. Acute episodes of HAE often 
occur without warning and often may be precipitated by a trigger.  
The mortality rate from undiagnosed HAE can be as high as 40% and is primarily attributed to upper 
airway obstruction. Asphyxiation can occur in 20 minutes to 14 hours in patients of any age, and it has 
occurred in patients with no previous history of respiratory symptoms (NORD Guide on Hereditary 
Angioedema).  
Number of people affected or at risk 
The prevalence of HAE calculated at the time of orphan designation in 2015 included Types I & II of 
hereditary angioedema (HAE), characterized by C1-INH deficiency, and it was estimated at 0.2 in 
10,000.  
The Sponsor completed an updated review of the prevalence using more recent literature. A third 
category previously referred to as ‘HAE Type III’, has been more recently described as HAE with 
normal C1 INH, with subsets of FXII-HAE and U-HAE (Cicardi et al., 2014) The largest study to date 
reported 265 patients seen at a clinic in Germany, giving a prevalence of 0.03 per 10,000, using 2017 
German population estimates. However, without explaining their calculations, the authors estimated a 
prevalence of 0.10 per 10,000 (Bork, Wulff, Witzke, & Hardt, 2015). In other studies the prevalence 
ranged from 0.01 (Slovakia) to 0.02 (Italy) (Bova et al., 2017; Jesenak et al., 2017).  
Taking the upper levels of prevalence reported in the most recent literature into account, the total 
prevalence for all categories of HAE proposed by the applicant was 0.27 in 10,000, which was 
approximated by the COMP to less than 0.5 in 10,000. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
As described by the sponsor, two approaches are currently used in the management of hereditary 
angioedema: acute or ‘on-demand’ treatment of angioedema attacks, and prevention of angioedema 
attacks with short or long-term prophylactic therapy. 
The currently authorized medicinal products in the EU include C1-INH replacement products such as 
human plasma-derived C1-INH (pdC1-INH) concentrates (Cinryze, Berinert and Cetor) or recombinant 
human C1-INH (Ruconest), and products acting on the kallikrein pathway such as icatibant (Firazyr), 
acting as bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist. Conjugated androgens, such as danazol, and 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 5/17 
 
 
 
antifibrinolytics, such as ɛ-aminocaproic acid and tranexamic acid, are frequently used for the 
prophylaxis of acute attacks and are licensed in some but not all Member States.   
Firazyr is indicated for symptomatic treatment of acute attacks of hereditary angioedema (adults, 
adolescents and children 2 years and older) with C1-esterase-inhibitor deficiency but not for 
prophylaxis of HAE attacks. Among the C1-INH replacement products, Cinryze is centrally authorized 
(in addition to treatment and pre-procedure prevention of angioedema attacks) also for routine 
prevention of the attacks in patients with severe and recurrent attacks, who are intolerant to or 
insufficiently protected by oral prevention treatments (tranexamic acid), or patients who are 
inadequately managed with repeated acute treatment. A subcutaneous formulation of Berinert, a 
plasma-derived C1-INH, was recently approved for the prevention of HAE in EU through the 
decentralised procedure. The procedure involved 22 member states. This formulation is given by 
subcutaneous injection twice weekly and is marketed in the US under the tradename Haegarda and in 
Europe as BERINERT 2000/3000. 
Cinryze requires IV infusion every three or four days due to its short half-life, and may necessitate the 
placement of an indwelling catheter. Plasma-derived C1-INH has class warnings including 
hypersensitivity, thromboembolic events, and viral safety (risk of transmission of infectious agents) 
due to its plasma derivation. 
Current treatment guidelines recommend against the use of antifibrinolytics for long-term prophylaxis 
(LTP) due to limited efficacy. The treatment guidelines recommend C1-INH or attenuated androgens as 
standard of care to prevent HAE attacks.  However, there are numerous contraindications, therapeutic 
class adverse events (AEs), risk factors for AEs, tolerance to therapy, and overall suboptimal control of 
HAE due to the need higher or more frequent dosing, threat of breakthrough attacks, and low attack-
free rates. Attenuated androgens (e.g. danazol, stanozolol, and oxandrolone) however increase hepatic 
production of C1 INH protein and are limited by safety issues, including seborrhea, altered libido, 
muscle pains and cramps, headache, nervousness, emotional lability, depression, fatigue, menstrual 
abnormalities, and masculinization, and lack definitive efficacy evidence at currently recommended 
lower doses. 
The current recommendations for long-term prophylaxis state that: 
• 
Prophylaxis should be considered for patients who face events in life that are associated with 
increased disease activity, and that patients should be continually evaluated for long-term 
prophylaxis. 
•  C1-INH is recommended as first-line long-term prophylaxis, and androgens are recommended as 
second-line prophylaxis. 
•  Adaptation of long-term prophylaxis in terms of dosage and/or treatment interval as needed to 
minimize burden of disease. 
In spite of available medicinal products for the treatment of acute attacks, HAE still is a disorder with 
high mortality. Although existing preventive therapy with C1-INH ameliorates the number and severity 
of attacks, some patients still experience breakthrough attacks.  
Significant benefit 
The sponsor claimed significant benefit versus the authorized treatments based on grounds of 
improved efficacy and of major contribution to patient care. 
The significant benefit claims are in relation to those treatments that are currently authorized for the 
same indication, i.e. for the prevention of HAE attacks, namely the C1-INH plasma-derived Cinryze and 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 6/17 
 
 
 
Berinert 2000/3000, and the anticoagulant tranexamic acid. Tranexamic acid however was not taken 
into account in the sponsor’s discussion, as it is not widely used. In addition, the most recent WAO & 
EAACI guidelines recommend C1-INH as first-line long-term prophylactic therapy (androgens as 
second-line), while antifibrinolytics are not recommended due to the lack of efficacy in long-term 
prophylaxis (Maurer et al., 2018). The use of attenuated androgens is limited by safety issues, lack of 
definitive efficacy information at recommended doses, and a restricted patient population that can 
benefit. The active substance of Takhzyro, lanadelumab, is a recombinant fully human IgG1 
monoclonal antibody inhibitor of active plasma kallikrein (pKal), binding both soluble and membrane-
bound forms of the enzyme. It is hypothesized that by specifically inhibiting pKal, lanadelumab 
prevents the release of bradykinin thereby preventing the vascular leak and swelling that is initiated 
when bradykinin binds to the B2 receptor. 
Improved efficacy  
The claims of improved efficacy versus C1 INH factors used for prophylactic treatment were based on 
indirect comparison of the Takhzyro trials with those of Cinryze and Berinert 2000/3000, as no direct 
comparison data are available.  
The study designs between the pivotal studies for CINRYZE and the recently approved use of 
BERINERT 2000/3000 for prophylaxis differ, and the sponsor presented two tables showing the main 
characteristics of the pivotal trial of Takhzyro next to the pivotal trial of Cinryze (table 2) and Berinert 
(table 3). 
Table 1.   Lanadelumab (Takhzyro) and Cinryze pivotal trials 
The sponsor discussed the different studies in depth, highlighting similarities and differences that can 
affect comparability. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 7/17 
 
 
 
 
 
A comparison among these studies is difficult because the designs were different with respect to a 
number of factors including: the sequence of treatment (in parallel with placebo for Takhzyro and 
cross-over in the Cinryze and Berinert 2000/3000studies); the study duration (Takhzyro was the 
longest, with 26 weeks of observation); and  the statistical analysis (the primary endpoint for 
lanadelumab was analysed with a generalized linear model for count data assuming a Poisson 
distribution with adjustment for baseline attack rate, while the primary endpoint for COMPACT study 
with BERINERT 2000/3000 was analysed using a mixed effects model assuming a continuous 
distribution). There were also 12 years between the Cinryze study and the ones of Berinert for 
prophylactic use (BERINERT 2000/3000) and Takhzyro. 
Nonetheless some conclusions can be made, because all studies used the reduction in the frequency of 
attacks as the primary endpoint (although the definition of those endpoints has differed across 
studies), the secondary endpoints were also similar, and the study populations did not significantly 
differ with respect to the number of attacks as inclusion criteria (1 attack per month inclusion 
criterion), as shown in the table above.  
The simple inter-trial comparison provided below in table 4, with all limitations described above, 
appears to suggest higher efficacy of Takhzyro and Berinert 2000/3000 as compared to Cinryze in the 
number of attacks (primary endpoint), severe breakthrough attacks, and number of responders. All 
endpoints performed better in the Berinert 2000/3000 and Takhzyro studies as compared to Cinryze. 
Similar efficacy of Berinert 2000/3000 and Takhzyro may be assumed from the table below.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 8/17 
 
 
 
Table 2.   
The sponsor performed also an indirect comparison. A Bayesian network meta-analysis was used to 
compare time to first attack after Day 0, Day 14 and Day 70 with data from the HELP study (SC 
Takhzyro 300 mg q2wks, 300 mg q4wks, 150 mg q4wks versus placebo; 26-weeks treatment period), 
the CHANGE study (IV C1-INH 1000U q3-4 days for 12 weeks, crossover to placebo for 12 weeks) and 
COMPACT study (HAEGARDA 40IU/kg SC bi-weekly, HAEGARDA 60IU/kg SC bi-weekly incomplete 
crossover to; 16 weeks) (Note: as previously mentioned, Haegarda is the commercial name of Berinert 
2000/3000 in the US).  
The proportion of attack-free patients was estimated for up to 60 months by (1) fitting parametric 
survival models (PSM) to time to first attack in the HELP lanadelumab and placebo arms; (2) 
calculating hazard ratios (HRs) from fitted PSMs; and (3) combining HRs and PSMs for time to first 
attack in the placebo arm of HELP to predict the survival curve for IV C1-INH and HAEGARDA. Figure 1 
shows the final network analysis performed by the sponsor. The figure contains the study mentioned 
above that were the final studies used for the indirect treatment comparison (ITC) once all available 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 9/17 
 
 
 
 
trials were screened and critically appraised (the methodology for such critical appraisal is described by 
the sponsor at annex 4 and appears acceptable).  
Figure 1.  final network diagram for ITC 
The results showed a comparable efficacy between Takhzyro and Berinert 2000/3000 (EU commercial 
name of Haegarda) on time to first attack after Day 0 (figure 2). More in detail, the reduction in risk of 
experiencing a first attack for patients receiving HAEGARDA 60IU/kg compared to placebo was similar 
to the reduction for patients receiving Takhzyro 300 mg q4wks (HR= 0.33, 95% CrI 0.18 to 0.58).  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 10/17 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.   Fixed Effect Model: Hazard Ratio of Treatment Versus Placebo (After Day 0) 
The results of the comparison of attacks after day 14 and day 70 went in the same direction. The 
sponsor states that compared to the results from the analysis of the time to first attack after Day 14, 
the predicted median hazard ratios after Day 70 for each lanadelumab dose are smaller in the network 
meta-analysis (NMA) for time to first attack.  
The comparison of each of the other treatments with each lanadelumab (Takhzyro) dose was 
presented by the sponsor by forest plots of lanadelumab 150mg q4w versus all other treatments, 
lanadelumab 300mg q4w versus all other treatments, and lanadelumab 300mg q2w versus all other 
treatments. A median hazard ratio less than 1 in these forest plots means that Lanadelumab 150mg 
q4w, 300mg q4w and 300mg q2w respectively reduces the risk of experiencing a first attack compared 
to the other treatments. Figure 3 below shows the forest plot of the hazard ratio of Lanadelumab 300 
mg q2w, versus Cinryze and Haegarda  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 11/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.  Forest plot of the hazard ratio of Lanadelumab 300 mg q2w, versus Cinryze and Haegarda 
(the name under which Berinert for subcutaneous administration is marketed in US, corresponding 
to Berinert 2000/3000 in the EU). 
The sponsor discussed with the COMP the indirect comparison of Takhzyro with Berinert 2000/3000 
(the subcutaneous formulation of Berinert), claiming lower attack rate with Takhzyro at steady state 
(estimated at 16 weeks for Takhzyro and at 14 weeks for Berinert in the respective studies). The mean 
reduction of attack rate was 91% for Takhzyro and 84% for Berinert and the percentage of attack free 
patients was 77% and 40%, respectively. However there was no statistically significant difference in 
the calculations provided with the indirect comparison. In addition the COMP noted, as also highlighted 
by the applicant in their submission, that there are several limitations in the comparability of the 
pivotal clinical trial of Takhzyro with the Berinert 2000/3000 trial. This includes some differences in 
attacks of angioedema in the 3 months before screening (10.5 attack in Takhzyro trial and 9.8 in the 
Berinert trial) although the number of attacks in the run-in period was comparable (3.7 and 4 attacks 
/month, respectively).”  
Predicted survival curves were also derived by the sponsor for each treatment (lanadelumab, CINRYZE, 
and HAEGARDA), for each of the three endpoints time to first attack after Day 0, 14 and 70, by 
combining the hazard ratios from the ITCs and the spline survival curve fitted to the Study DX-2930-
03 placebo data. The most relevant findings from these curves are that lanadelumab (300 mg q2wks) 
presents the numerically greatest predicted proportion of attack-free patients over all time points. 
After 60 months, the predicted proportion of attack-free patients taking lanadelumab (300 mg q2wks) 
is 0.462 but for CINRYZE the proportion is only 0.008. Figure 4 below presents the predicted survival 
curve of the time to first attack after Day 70 for each lanadelumab dose, HAEGARDA 40IU/kg, 
HAEGARDA 60II/kg, and CINRYZE. The curves plotted closest to the survival probability of 1 are 
predicting a higher proportion of patients that are attack-free attack time point and therefore a higher 
time to first attack.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.  Predicted Survival Curves: Time to First Attack After Day 70 
Conclusions on improved efficacy 
From the data presented by the sponsor it would appear that Takhzyro provides better efficacy than 
Cinryze on protection for HAE attacks as well on other aspects (e.g. attack severity). The differences 
between Cinryze and Takhzyro appear numerically and clinically relevant although it would appear that 
there is not statistical significance of the differences. A key limitation of efficacy comparison between 
those two products was that extrapolation was based on short observation periods, as previously 
discussed, due to the differences in study duration of the studies. However, the methodology of the 
indirect comparison was extensively discussed by the sponsor and the uncertainty around a number of 
assumptions was justified.  
Regarding Berinert 2000/3000 the results of indirect comparison suggest an overall comparable 
reduction in attack rates with lanadelumab. Modelling of the available clinical trials data of Takhzyro 
and Berinert showed that after 5 years, 46% of patients treated with lanadelumab 300 mg q2wks 
would be attack-free, versus 5% with Berinert SC 60 IU/kg (q3-4days). However, the time to first 
attack after day 0 for patients treated with lanadelumab v was not significantly different than Berinert . 
Based on the model, the risk of first attack after day 70 was significantly lower for patients treated 
with lanadelumab. Extrapolation based on these results showed that after 5 years, 46% of patients 
treated with lanadelumab 300 mg q2wks would be attack-free, versus 5% with Berinert 2000/3000 
(q3-4days).  
The indirect comparison on the other hand showed a clear clinical advantage of Takhzyro compared to 
Cinryze, including clinically relevant differences in attack rates and time to first attack after Day 0.   
The COMP concluded that in view of the majority of the results showing comparable efficacy of 
Takhzyro to Berinert, with only the simulated attack-free rate at 5 years showing a difference, a claim 
of better efficacy of Takhzyro than Berinert could not be accepted, and the two products can be 
considered to have comparable efficacy based on the data available at the time of this assessment. 
Takhzyro was considered to have better efficacy than Cinryze. 
Major contribution to patient care 
The sponsor proposes differences in the dosing schedule as the main ground for significant benefit 
based on major contribution to patient care.  
Takhzyro has a long half-life (14 days) allowing a once or twice monthly subcutaneous administration 
therefore the sponsor argues that the burden of treatment is significantly lower than that of the 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 13/17 
 
 
 
 
currently authorized main comparators (for the same prophylactic indications) Cinryze and Berinert. In 
the agreed SmPC the recommended starting dose is 300 mg lanadelumab every 2 weeks. In patients 
who are stably attack free on treatment, a dose reduction of 300 mg lanadelumab every 4 weeks may 
be considered, especially in patients with low weight. 
Cinryze requires IV administration every 3 or 4 days and a major contribution to patient care of 
Tahkzyro may be assumed, as such frequent IV administration usually requires the placement of a 
permanent venous access or repeated IV injections. A significant benefit of Takhzyro vs Cinryze may 
be based on ease of use linked to administration route and the dosing schedule.  
Regarding Berinert2000/3000, the administration route is the same (subcutaneous) as Takhzyro but 
Berinert2000/3000 requires administration every 3-4 days, and reconstitution with a large volume of 
water per reconstituted vial (4 mL to 6 mL) compared to 2 mL of  Takhzyro subcutaneously every 2 or 
4 weeks.  
The sponsor supported the application also with an analysis of quality of life data. Patients treated with 
TAKHZYRO observed a statistically significant improvement in HRQoL as measured by the AE-QoL 
during the 26-week treatment period (Day 0 to Day 182), with statistically significant and clinically 
meaningful improvement in AEQoL total score and all domain (functioning, fatigue/mood, fear/shame, 
and nutrition) compared to placebo. The largest improvement was observed in the functioning domain. 
Table 5 shows the overall AE-QoL score of treatment versus placebo.  
Table 3.  Change in AE-Qol Scores for TAKHZYRO† Versus Placebo (ITT Population) 
The sponsor also presented and discussed quality of life data comparing Takhzyro (HELP study) with 
studies with a proprietary C1-INH for subcutaneous use (C1-INH SC) at the stage of investigational 
agent, at the same dosing schedule as the authorized Berinert 2000/3000. The AE-QoL (angioedema 
quality of life questionnaire) was used to measure disease-specific quality of life. The data showed 
higher rate of responders (defined as reduction of at least 6 points in AE-QoL total score) with 
lanadelumab 300 mg every 2 weeks with an odds ratio versus placebo of 7.2. The results were 
considered relevant by the COMP although the statistical significance of the difference in responders 
could not be established.  
From the point of view of convenience of use, the  2 times a month administration schedule of 
lanadelumab  was compared by the sponsor to the authorized dosing schedule of Berinert 2000/3000 
(every 3 or 4 days), taking into account also the volume that needs to be administered subcutaneously 
at each injection, i.e. 2 ml/dose for Takhzyro and 8-12 ml/dose for Berinert 2000/3000 (figure 5). 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 14/17 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5.  From Banerji et al (2018), Longhurst et al. (2017) and Murphy et al. (2018) 
*15
30 minutes 
**volume for 60
‐
100 kg per injection/infusion 
Conclusion on major contribution to patient care 
‐
The COMP discussed the reduction of treatment burden linked to the lighter dosing schedule of 
Takhzyro and its impact on patients, and considered that it could be considered sufficiently relevant to 
be granted a significant benefit based on major contribution to patient care. Takhzyro can be 
administered subcutaneously at 300 mg every 2 weeks. In patients who are stably attack free on 
treatment, a dose reduction of 300 mg every 4 weeks may be considered, especially in patients with 
low weight. Cynrize has an intravenous administration route, requiring administration every 3 or 4 
days. A major contribution to patient care of Tahkzyro can be assumed, as such frequent IV 
administration usually requires the placement of a permanent venous access or repeated IV injections. 
Regarding Berinert 2000/3000, the administration route is the same (subcutaneous) but Berinert 
2000/3000 requires administration every 3-4 days, and reconstitution with a large volume of water per 
reconstituted vial (4 mL to 6 mL), compared to  2 mL of Takhzyro subcutaneously every 2 or 4 weeks. 
The COMP considered that the less frequent dosing schedule represents a major contribution to patient 
care. The quality of life data presented by the sponsor were considered relevant as supportive evidence 
but did not constitute the main ground for a major contribution to patient care. 
The committee expressed a positive opinion on the maintenance of the orphan status based on major 
contribution to patient care, with three members signing a divergent opinion. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 15/17 
 
 
 
 
COMP position adopted on 26 October 2018 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product. 
the prevalence of hereditary angioedema (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated 
to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded less than 0.5 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to recurrent attacks of oedema in 
various parts of the body that may cause airway obstruction leading to asphyxia; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the COMP considered that Takhzyro is of significant benefit to those affected by the orphan 
condition. Based on an indirect comparison, Takhzyro showed better results in preventing 
angioedema attacks than the C1 inhibitor Cinryze, currently authorized for the condition. Takzyro 
showed similar efficacy as Berinert 2000/3000, another C1 inhibitor also authorized for the 
condition. In relation to the recently approved subcutaneous formulation of Berinert 2000/3000, 
Takhzyro has a more favourable dosing schedule and more convenient administration, which allows 
treatment every two weeks instead of every 3 to 4 days. The Committee considered that this is a 
major contribution to patient care as it reduces the treatment burden for the patients affected by 
the condition.  
the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 5(12)(b) of Regulation 
(EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Takhzyro, recombinant human 
IgG1 kappa light chain monoclonal antibody targeting plasma kallikrein, lanadelumab, EU/3/15/1551 
for treatment of hereditary angioedema is not removed from the Community Register of Orphan 
Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
Divergent position expressed by some members of the COMP 
Efficacy and safety of lanadelumab is in the same range as comparators licensed for the same 
indication. Therefore, significant benefit cannot be based on improved efficacy, but must be based on a 
major contribution to patients care.  
The applicant failed to show convincing data proving that the more convenient mode of administration 
actually translates into relevant improvement of quality of life.  
Therefore, the COMP members below are of the opinion, that the provided data are not enough to 
support maintenance of orphan status. 
Austria 
Brigitte Blöchl-Daum 
Denmark 
Elisabeth Penninga 
Spain 
Fernando Mendez Hermida 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/809232/2018 
Page 17/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
