Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan
Summary of risk management plan for Takhzyro (Lanadelumab)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Takhzyro. The RMP details important risks of 
Takhzyro,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Takhzyro's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Takhzyro's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Takhzyro should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Takhzyro should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Takhzyro's RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Takhzyro is authorised for routine prevention of recurrent attacks of hereditary angioedema (HAE) in 
patients aged 2 years and older (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains lanadelumab as the active 
substance and it is given by subcutaneous route.
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Takhzyro’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Takhzyro’s  EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/takhzyro
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks
Important risks of Takhzyro, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Takhzyro's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Takhzyro is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below.
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Takhzyro are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of Takhzyro. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
None
Important potential risks
None
Missing information
Use in Pregnancy and Lactation
II.B Summary of important risks
Missing Information: Use in Pregnancy and Lactation
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine
Not applicable.
Risk factors and risk groups
Not applicable.
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
SmPC section 4.6 describe Pregnancy, Fertility and Lactation
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities
Additional risk minimisation measures:
None.
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
None.
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
lanadelumab.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
None.
