EMA/425845/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004806 
Takhzyro (lanadelumab) 
An overview of Takhzyro and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Takhzyro and what is it used for? 
Takhzyro is a medicine used to prevent attacks of hereditary angioedema in patients aged 2 years and 
over. 
Patients with angioedema have rapid swelling under the skin in areas such as the face, throat, arms 
and legs. Attacks of hereditary angioedema can be life threatening when the swelling around the throat 
presses against the airway. 
Hereditary angioedema is rare, and Takhzyro was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 9 October 2015. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3151551. 
Takhzyro contains the active substance lanadelumab. 
How is Takhzyro used? 
Takhzyro is given as an injection under the skin, preferably in the abdomen (belly), thighs or upper 
arms. The recommended dose and frequency depends on the patient’s age and bodyweight. At the 
beginning of treatment the dose is usually given every 2 weeks, which the doctor can reduce to once 
every 4 weeks if the patient remains free of attacks with the two-weekly dose.  
Caregivers or patients aged 12 years and above may inject the medicine themselves after they have 
been properly trained. 
Takhzyro can only be obtained with a prescription and should be started under supervision of a doctor 
experienced in managing hereditary angioedema. 
For more information about using Takhzyro, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Takhzyro work? 
Patients with hereditary angioedema have high levels of a substance called ‘bradykinin’, which causes 
blood vessels to widen and leak fluid into the surrounding tissue leading to the swelling attacks seen in 
angioedema. 
The active substance in Takhzyro, lanadelumab, works by attaching to and blocking an enzyme in the 
blood called 'kallikrein', which has several functions, including increasing levels of bradykinin. By 
blocking the actions of kallikrein, lanadelumab helps to prevent the swelling and related symptoms of 
angioedema. 
What benefits of Takhzyro have been shown in studies? 
Takhzyro was found to be effective in reducing the number of angioedema attacks in a main study in 
126 adults and children above 12 years of age with hereditary angioedema. 
Patients experienced on average 0.3 attacks per month when given Takhzyro injections every 2 weeks 
and 0.5 attacks when given injections every 4 weeks. This compared with 2 attacks per month for 
patients on placebo (a dummy treatment). 
An additional study was carried out in 21 children with hereditary angioedema aged between 2 and 12 
years. Treatment with Takhzyro reduced the number of angioedema attacks from on average 1.84 
attacks per month to 0.08 attacks after one year of treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Takhzyro? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Takhzyro, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Takhzyro (which may affect more than 1 patient in 10) include 
reactions at the site of injection including erythema (redness), bruising and pain. 
Why is Takhzyro authorised in the EU? 
Takhzyro is effective in preventing angioedema attacks and the fact that it only needs to be given 
every 2 or 4 weeks was considered an advantage over existing treatments. Overall, the safety profile 
was considered acceptable. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Takhzyro’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Takhzyro? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Takhzyro have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Takhzyro are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Takhzyro are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Takhzyro 
Takhzyro received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 November 2018. 
Takhzyro (lanadelumab)  
EMA/425845/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Takhzyro can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/takhzyro.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2023. 
Takhzyro (lanadelumab)  
EMA/425845/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
