EMA/171915/2016  
EMEA/H/C/003943 
EPAR summary for the public 
Taltz 
ixekizumab 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Taltz. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Taltz. 
For practical information about using Taltz, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Taltz and what is it used for? 
Taltz is a medicine used for treating moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, a disease causing red, scaly 
patches on the skin. It is used in adults who require systemic treatment (treatment with medicines 
affecting the whole body).  
Taltz contains the active substance ixekizumab. 
How is Taltz used? 
Taltz can only be obtained with a prescription and it should be used under the supervision of a doctor 
experienced in diagnosing and treating psoriasis. 
Taltz is available as an injection in pre-filled syringes and in pen injectors. It is given as an injection 
under the skin. The first dose of 160 mg (two injections) is followed by an injection of 80 mg every two 
weeks for the first 12 weeks and every 4 weeks thereafter. The doctor may decide to stop treatment if 
the condition does not improve after 16 to 20 weeks. After training, patients may inject Taltz if their 
doctor considers it appropriate. For further information, see the summary of product characteristics 
(also part of the EPAR). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Taltz work? 
The active substance in Taltz, ixekizumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a protein designed to attach to 
interleukin 17A, a messenger molecule in the body's immune system (the body's natural defences). 
Interleukin 17A is involved in immune system effects, including inflammation, that cause psoriasis. By 
attaching to interleukin 17A, ixekizumab blocks its action and reduces the activity of the immune 
system and thereby reduces the symptoms of psoriasis. 
What benefits of Taltz have been shown in studies? 
Studies show that Taltz is effective in treating plaque psoriasis in patients who required systemic 
treatment. Plaque psoriasis improved to a greater extent in patients treated with Taltz than with 
placebo (a dummy treatment) or with etanercept, another medicine used to treat psoriasis. 
In 3 main studies involving over 3,800 patients with psoriasis, 89% of those treated every two weeks 
with Taltz attained a 75% reduction in PASI scores (a measure of disease severity and area of skin 
affected) after 12 weeks. This compares with 4% of those given placebo and with 48% of patients 
given etanercept in 2 of the main studies. Also, 82% of patients given Taltz had clear or nearly clear 
skin after 12 weeks, compared with 4% of patients given placebo and 39% of patients given 
etanercept 
In 2 studies, treatment was continued in patients whose psoriasis improved with Taltz given every 2 
weeks for 12 weeks. After further treatment with Taltz every 4 weeks for 48 weeks, 78% of patients 
had clear or nearly clear skin. 
What are the risks associated with Taltz? 
The most common side effects with Taltz (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are pain and 
redness at the injection site, and nose, throat or chest infections. Taltz must not be given to patients 
who have potentially serious infections such as tuberculosis. For the full list of all side effects and 
restrictions with Taltz, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Taltz approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Taltz’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The medicine has 
been shown to be effective in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and its side effects are in line with 
other similar psoriasis medicines. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Taltz? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Taltz is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Taltz, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Taltz 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Taltz on 25 April 2016. 
Taltz  
EMA/171915/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Taltz can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Taltz, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2015. 
Taltz  
EMA/171915/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
