EMA/379931/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005864 
Talvey (talquetamab) 
An overview of Talvey and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Talvey and what is it used for? 
Talvey is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with multiple myeloma (a cancer of the bone marrow) 
when the cancer has come back (relapsed) and has not responded to treatment (refractory).  
It is used in patients who have received at least three previous therapies, including an 
immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody, and whose disease has 
worsened since the last treatment. 
Multiple myeloma is rare, and Talvey was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 20 August 2021. Further information on the orphan designation can be found on the EMA 
website. 
Talvey contains the active substance talquetamab. 
How is Talvey used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored 
by a doctor experienced in the management of multiple myeloma. It should be given in a setting with 
appropriate medical support to manage possible severe side effects such as cytokine release syndrome 
(a potentially life-threatening condition that causes fever, vomiting, shortness of breath, headache and 
low blood pressure) and neurological toxicity (complications relating to the brain or nerves; see risks 
section below for further information). 
Talvey is given as an injection under the skin, either once a week or every 2 weeks. Treatment should 
continue for as long as the patient benefits from it or until side effects become unmanageable. Several 
medicines are given before Talvey to reduce the risk of cytokine release syndrome. Doctors should 
monitor patients for serious side effects for 2 days after each of the first 3 or 4 doses. The doctor may 
delay doses if certain side effects occur or stop treatment altogether for certain severe side effects. 
For more information about using Talvey, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Talvey work? 
The active substance in Talvey, talquetamab, is an antibody (a type of protein) that is designed to 
recognise and attach to two targets simultaneously: one called GPRC5D on myeloma cells and one 
called CD3 on the surface of T cells (a type of cell in the immune system). By attaching to these target 
proteins, Talvey brings the cancer cells and T cells together. This activates the T cells, which then kill 
the multiple myeloma cells. 
What benefits of Talvey have been shown in studies? 
Talvey was investigated in one main study involving 288 patients with relapsed or refractory multiple 
myeloma that had returned and who had been given 3 or more previous treatments. Patients were 
given either Talvey 4 mg/kg bodyweight once a week or Talvey 8 mg/kg once every two weeks. 
Several markers were used to measure response to treatment, including urine and blood levels of an 
antibody called M protein. Talvey was not compared to another medicine in this study. 
The study showed that 74.1% (106 out of 143) of patients given Talvey 4 mg/kg once a week had at 
least a partial response to treatment (meaning their blood level of M protein had decreased by at least 
50%); in 51.5% of responders, the response lasted for at least 9 months. Among patients given Talvey 
8 mg/kg once every two weeks, 71.7% (104 out of 145) had at least a partial response to treatment, 
which lasted for at least 9 months in 76% of responders.  
What are the risks associated with Talvey? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Talvey, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Talvey (which may affect more than 6 in 10 people) include 
cytokine release syndrome (CRS), dysgeusia (taste disturbance) and hypogammaglobulinaemia (low 
levels of antibodies in the blood). More than 2 in 10 people may be affected by the following side 
effects: nail disorder, pain in muscles and bones, anaemia (low levels of red blood cells), skin disorder, 
tiredness, decreased weight, rash, dry mouth, neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white 
blood cell that fights infection), fever, xerosis (severely dry skin), thrombocytopenia (low levels of 
blood platelets), nose and throat infection, lymphopenia (low levels of lymphocytes, a type of white 
blood cell), dysphagia (difficulty swallowing), diarrhoea, pruritus (itching), cough, pain, decreased 
appetite and headache. 
Serious side effects include CRS, fever, immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome 
(ICANS, a neurological disorder with symptoms including problems with speech and writing, confusion 
and depressed level of consciousness), sepsis (blood poisoning), COVID-19, bacterial infection, 
pneumonia (lung infection), viral infection, neutropenia and pain. 
Why is Talvey authorised in the EU? 
Patients with multiple myeloma whose cancer has returned and not responded to at least 3 previous 
treatments have limited treatment options. in these patients. Talvey was shown to produce high 
response rates in these patients and could represent an additional treatment option.  
Although serious side effects, particularly cytokine release syndrome and ICANS, can occur, they were 
considered manageable with appropriate measures. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided 
that Talvey’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Talvey (talquetamab)  
EMA/379931/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Talvey has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that the European Medicines Agency 
decided that the benefits of Talvey are greater than its risks, but the company will have to provide 
additional evidence after authorisation.  
Conditional authorisation is granted on the basis of less comprehensive data than are normally 
required. It is granted for medicines that fulfil an unmet medical need to treat serious diseases and 
when the benefits of having them available earlier outweigh any risks associated with using the 
medicines while waiting for further evidence. Every year, the Agency will review any new information 
that becomes available until data become comprehensive, and this overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
Since Talvey was given conditional authorisation, at the time of authorisation the company marketing 
Talvey was required to provide data from an additional study in order to confirm the effectiveness and 
safety of the medicine. The company was also required to provide further data to characterise the 
long-term safety of Talvey.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Talvey? 
The company that markets Talvey will provide educational materials to healthcare professionals 
expected to prescribe or give the medicine, containing important information on the risk of neurological 
toxicity including ICANS; an alert card will be provided to patients receiving the medicine, containing 
important information on the risk of CRS and neurological toxicity, including ICANS, and 
recommendations to help minimise these risks. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Talvey have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Talvey are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Talvey are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Talvey 
Talvey received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 August 2023. 
Further information on Talvey can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/talvey.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2023. 
Talvey (talquetamab)  
EMA/379931/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
