EMA/513180/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004674 
Talzenna (talazoparib) 
An overview of Talzenna and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Talzenna and what is it used for? 
Talzenna is a cancer medicine used on its own to treat a type of breast cancer (HER2-negative with 
BRCA mutations) that has spread beyond the original site (locally advanced or metastatic), in patients 
who have been treated with certain medicines which have stopped working or when these medicines 
are not suitable. 
Talzenna is also used together with another cancer medicine, enzalutamide, to treat adults who have 
castration-resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) and who 
cannot have chemotherapy. Castration-resistant means that the disease has worsened despite 
treatment to lower testosterone levels, including surgical removal of the testes. 
Talzenna contains the active substance talazoparib. 
How is Talzenna used? 
Talzenna can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines.  
Talzenna is available as capsules to be taken by mouth once a day. The dose depends on the condition 
being treated. Treatment should continue for as long as the patient benefits from it and side effects are 
tolerable. The dose may be reduced or treatment interrupted if certain side effects develop. 
For more information about using Talzenna, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Talzenna work? 
The active substance in Talzenna, talazoparib, blocks the action of an enzyme called human poly-ADP 
ribose polymerase (PARP), which is a protein that helps to repair damaged DNA in cells (both normal 
and cancer cells) during cell division. When the PARP protein is blocked, the damaged DNA in cancer 
cells cannot be repaired, and as a result the cancer cells die. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Talzenna have been shown in studies? 
Talzenna was shown to be effective at increasing the time patients live without their disease getting 
worse in two main studies.  
The first main study involved 431 patients with HER2-negative breast cancer with BRCA mutations 
whose cancer had spread. Patients treated with Talzenna lived on average for 8.6 months without their 
disease getting worse compared with 5.6 months for patients treated with the doctor's choice of 
another cancer medicine. 
A second main study involved 805 adults with castration-resistant prostate cancer that had spread to 
other parts of the body and who had not had chemotherapy. In this study, worsening of the disease 
could be seen on scans after around 22 months for people who received placebo (a dummy 
treatment). For those who received Talzenna, this time could not be calculated as not enough people 
had experienced worsening of their disease after about 28 months of follow up. In both groups, people 
also received enzalutamide. 
What are the risks associated with Talzenna? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Talzenna, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Talzenna (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are anaemia 
(low red blood cell counts), tiredness, nausea (feeling sick), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a 
type of white blood cell that fights infection), thrombocytopenia (low blood levels of platelets), and 
decreased appetite.  
Women must not breastfeed during treatment with Talzenna and for a month after stopping treatment.  
Why is Talzenna authorised in the EU? 
Generally the outcome is poor for patients with HER2-negative breast cancer with BRCA mutations 
whose cancer has spread. Talzenna can increase the time these patients live without their disease 
getting worse. The medicine has also been found to be effective in the treatment of people with 
castration-resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body and who cannot have 
chemotherapy. In these people, Talzenna can increase the time they live without their disease getting 
worse. The side effects with Talzenna were generally acceptable and when needed, manageable with 
dose modifications or standard supportive medical therapy.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Talzenna’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Talzenna? 
The company that holds the marketing authorisation for Talzenna will provide the final results of the 
study looking at the effectiveness of the medicine together with enzalutamide in the treatment of 
adults with castration-resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body and who 
cannot have chemotherapy. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Talzenna have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Talzenna (talazoparib)  
EMA/513180/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Talzenna are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Talzenna are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Talzenna 
Talzenna received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 June 2019. 
Further information on Talzenna can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/talzenna  
This overview was last updated in 12-2023. 
Talzenna (talazoparib)  
EMA/513180/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
