SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR TAMIFLU (OSELTAMIVIR 
PHOSPHATE)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tamiflu.  The RMP details 
important risks of Tamiflu, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about Tamiflu risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Tamiflu’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tamiflu should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Tamiflu should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Tamiflu RMP.
I. THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
Tamiflu is authorized for treatment and prevention of influenza. It contains oseltamivir as 
the active substance and it is given by oral administration.
Further information about the evaluation of Tamiflu’s benefits can be found in Tamiflu’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage.
II. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE 
OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS
Important risks of Tamiflu, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Tamiflu risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., 
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary.  These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Tamiflu is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing Information’ below.
II.A
LIST OF IMPORTANT RISKS AND MISSING INFORMATION
Important risks of Tamiflu are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered.  Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks 
are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Tamiflu.  Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation.  Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-
term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B
SUMMARY OF IMPORTANT RISKS 
Not applicable.
II.C
POST-AUTHORIZATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific 
obligation of Tamiflu.
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no other studies in the post-authorization plan.
