European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 July 2007 
Product name: TAMIFLU 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/402/X/45 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8545 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
This application for Tamiflu 45 mg hard capsules is a line extension for the addition of new dosage 
strength to the existing Marketing Authorisation for Tamiflu 75 mg hard capsules (EU/1/02/222/001). 
Tamiflu 12 mg/ml powder for oral suspension (EU/1/02/222/002) is also authorised at the same time 
as Tamiflu 75 mg hard capsules. 
The  active  substance  of  Tamiflu,  oseltamivir,  is  a  pro-drug  of  the  active  metabolite,  oseltamivir 
carboxylate.  Oseltamivir  has  been  investigated  for  its  ability  to  inhibit  neuraminidase  activity  in 
influenza  A  and  B  viruses.  Oseltamivir  is  a  selective  inhibitor  of  influenza  virus  neuraminidase 
enzymes, which are glycoproteins found on the virion surface. Viral neuraminidase enzyme activity is 
essential for the release of recently formed virus particles from infected cells and the further spread of 
infectious virus in the body. Inhibition of this viral surface glycoprotein enzyme is expected to hinder 
the  release  of  virions  from  infected  cells  which  may  lead  to  reduction  in  viral  replication  and  to 
attenuation of the infection. 
Tamiflu was originally tested as hard capsules for oral administration in strength of 75 mg. In order to 
extend  the  treatment  to  children  and  to  patients  who  cannot  swallow  capsules,  a  powder  for  oral 
suspension containing 12 mg/ml of oseltamivir freebase was developed. 
Tamiflu is approved for the following indication: 
“Treatment of influenza in adults and children one year of age or older, who present with symptoms 
typical  of  influenza,  when  influenza  virus  is  circulating  in  the  community.  Efficacy  has  been 
demonstrated when treatment is initiated within two days of first onset of symptoms. This indication is 
based  on  clinical  studies  of  naturally  occurring  influenza  in  which  the  predominant  infection  was 
influenza A (see section 5.1 of SPC). 
Prevention of influenza: 
- Post exposure prevention in adults and adolescents 13 years of age or older following contact with 
a clinically diagnosed influenza case when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
- The appropriate use of Tamiflu for prevention of influenza should be determined on a case-by case 
basis by the circumstances and the population requiring protection. In exceptional situations (e.g. in 
case  of  a  mismatch  between  the  circulating  and  vaccine  virus  strains,  and  a  pandemic  situation) 
seasonal prevention could be considered in adults and adolescents 13 years of age or older. 
Tamiflu is not a substitute for influenza vaccination. 
The use of antivirals for the treatment and prevention of influenza should be determined on the basis 
of official recommendations taking into consideration variability of epidemiology and the impact of 
the disease in different geographical areas and patient populations”. 
In  view  of  pandemic  preparedness  and  due  to the excellent stability of the capsule formulation, the 
MAH  has  developed  appropriate  strengths  that  could  be  stockpiled.  For  these  reasons  the  MAH 
decided  to  develop  the  lower  dose  capsules  containing  45  mg  of  oseltamivir  by  filling  the 
appropriately lower amount of the same encapsulation mixture as that used for 75 mg capsules into 
smaller capsule shells. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Tamiflu  is  currently  presented  as  75  mg  hard  capsules  in  PVC/PE/PVDC/Alu  blister  packs  of  10 
capsules and as 12 mg/ml powder for oral suspension packaged in amber glass bottle with a tamper-
evident child-resistant closure containing 30gr of the powder. 
The MAH introduced a new strength of 45 mg hard capsules packaged in PVC/PE/PVDC/Alu blister 
packs of 10 capsules. 
EMEA/590316/2008 
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
phosphate, 
Oseltamivir 
(3R,4R,5S)-4-acetylamino-5-amino-3-(1-ethylpropoxy)1-cyclohexene-1-
carboxylic acid, ethyl ester, phosphate (1:1), is a non-hygroscopic pro-drug of the active metabolite, 
oseltamivir  carboxylate.  It  is  freely  soluble  in  water.  The  drug  substance  oseltamivir  phosphate  has 
been appropriately characterized and fully described and was already approved within the Tamiflu 75 
mg  capsules  marketing  Authorization  Application.  The  manufacturing  process  and  process  controls 
are  the  same  as  approved  in  the  dossier  of  Tamiflu  75  mg  capsules  and  as  IB  variations.  The 
validations of analysis methods have been satisfactorily described previously. The specifications are 
previously assessed and approved and therefore considered to be justified. The proposed re-test period 
has  been  approved  in  connection  with  IB  variation  of  Tamiflu  75  mg  capsules  and  testing  of  three 
production batches will be continued up to the end of the re-test period. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Based  on  the  approved  dosing  scheme  for  paediatric  population  a  new  strength  of  45  mg  capsules 
have been developed covering the whole range of body weight in children, who are able to swallow 
capsules. 
The 45 mg capsules are direct weight multiples of the 75 mg capsules. The lower dose capsules are 
manufactured  by  filling  into  smaller  capsule  shells  the  requisite  lower  amount  of  the  exact  same 
encapsulation mixture as that used for the 75 mg capsules. The drug product is an immediate-release 
hard gelatine capsule, showing rapid dissolution of drug substance from capsules. The excipients used 
are  of  pharmacopoeial  standard  and  widely  used  in  pharmaceutical  dosage  dorms.  Their  selection 
followed compatibility tests with the drug substance and are the same as those used in the approved 
75 mg strength. 
The  chosen  primary  packaging  adequately  protects  the  product  during  the  proposed  shelf-life.  The 
stability profile for the 45 mg capsules is anticipated to be similar to that of the 75 mg capsules. 
Bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  between  the  75  mg  capsules  and  the  powder  for  oral 
suspension with study WP16225. The 75 mg capsules used in the bioequivalence study fulfilled the 
requirements  for  a  rapidly  dissolving  immediate  release  dosage  form,  i.e.  at  least  85%  of  drug 
substance was dissolved within 15 minutes.  
In  order  to  demonstrate  the  equivalence  of  the  45  mg  and  75  mg  capsules,  comparative  dissolution 
studies  were  performed.  The  dissolution  profiles  of  the  validation  batches  of  45  mg  capsules  were 
compared with that of the 75 mg capsules batch used in study WP16225. 
The  45  mg  capsules  comply  with  the  requirements  for  a  fast  dissolving  immediate  release  dosage 
form.  After  15  minutes  more  than  85%  of  drug  substance  is  dissolved  each  time;  therefore  for  the 
assessment of their equivalence the calculation of the f2-factor is not necessary. The 45 mg capsules 
are considered equivalent to the 75 mg with regard to their in-vitro performance. Hence, based on the 
linear pharmacokinetics they are also considered equivalent to Tamiflu powder for oral suspension at 
the respective doses. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Neither the excipients nor the active substance is derived from human or animal origin. Certificates of 
Suitability have been provided for the gelatine capsule which is of ruminant origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacture  of  the  drug  product  involves  conventional  pharmaceutical  operations  such  as  wet 
granulation,  drying,  milling,  final  blending  and  capsule  filling.  It  is  robust  and  ensures  consistent 
product quality based on a validated process. The capsule filling process for the 45 mg capsules uses 
equipment  applying  the  same  operation  principles  as  is  used  for  the  75  mg  capsules.  The 
encapsulation process was validated for each of the dosage strengths to ensure that with the smaller 
capsule size and the lower fill-mass the requirements for homogeneity are still fulfilled. 
EMEA/590316/2008 
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specification  contains  the  relevant  tests  and  limits  for  a  product  of  this  type.  Tests 
include  appearance  and  size  of  capsule,  appearance  and  colour  of  capsule  content,  identification  of 
capsule colorants, identification of the active substance (HPLC &  TLC), uniformity of dosage units 
by mass variation (Ph. Eur.), degradation products (HPLC), dissolution (Ph.Eur.), and microbial limits 
(Ph.Eur). 
Stability of the Product 
• 
6  months  stability  data  on  three  validation  batches  of  Tamiflu  45  mg  capsules  manufactured  on 
commercial scale stored in the proposed packaging material under 30ºC/75% RH and 40ºC/75% RH. 
The  storage  conditions  of  30ºC/75%  RH  used  in  stability  studies  instead  of  30ºC/65%  RH  or 
25ºC/60% RH can be considered acceptable. 
The  results  of  6  months  show  that  the  specifications  were  met  in  both  storage  conditions.  The 
following  parameters  studied:  appearance  and  colour  of  capsule  contents,  dissolution,  degradation 
products and assay, using validated analytical methods. 
Photostability studies presented in connection with the dossier of Tamiflu 75 mg capsules showed that 
the drug product does not need protection from light. Those studies can also be considered sufficient 
for Tamiflu 45 mg capsules. 
Comparative  stability  results  of  Tamiflu  45  mg  and  75  mg  capsules  after  storage  for  6  months  at 
40ºC/75%  RH  in  the  proposed  packaging  material  were  presented.  The  results  show  that  no 
significant differences have been found in 6 months at 40ºC/75% RH between the batches. Equivalent 
long-term stability behaviour as for the 75 mg capsules is therefore expected for the 45 mg. The shelf-
life  of  5  years  has  been  approved  for  Tamiflu  75  mg  capsules  based  on  the  real-time  60  months 
stability data.  
In conclusion, based on the stability data for 75 mg capsules and on 6-month data at 30ºC/75% 
RH and 40ºC/75% RH for 45 mg capsules, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions for the 
drug product as stated in the SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
All  relevant  information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug 
product  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate 
satisfactory  consistency  and uniformity of all the important quality characteristics of the product. It 
can be reasonably concluded that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in 
the  clinic.  At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  were no unresolved quality issues, which could 
have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
3. 
 Non-clinical aspects 
No pre-clinical data was submitted. 
4.  Clinical aspects 
•  Pharmacokinetics 
The drug product is an immediate-release hard gelatine capsule. As stated above, the manufacturing 
conditions are the same for all capsule strengths, the same excipients are used, including the coating, 
and the specifications are the same as those approved for Tamiflu 75 mg capsules.  
Besides  dissolution  testing  (see  3.3  Quality  aspects),  no  bioequivalence  studies  between  the  45  mg 
and the 75 mg capsules or the powder for oral suspension have been performed. The 45 mg are dose-
proportional to the 75 mg capsules and exhibit equivalent dissolution properties. The 45 mg capsules 
have the same coating and homogenous content than the 75 mg capsules. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  oseltamivir  phosphate  (prodrug)  and  oseltamivir  carboxylate  (active 
metabolite) were studied in the original marketing authorisation application of Tamiflu 75mg capsules 
EMEA/590316/2008 
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
submitted in 2001. The conclusions adopted by the CHMP when the Opinion was adopted in March 
2002 remain valid. It can be summarised as follow: 
•  Oseltamivir  is  readily  absorbed  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract  after  oral  administration  of 
oseltamivir  phosphate  (pro-drug)  and  is  extensively  converted  by  predominantly  hepatic 
esterases to the active metabolite (oseltamivir carboxylate). In healthy humans, at least 75% 
of an oral dose enters the systemic circulation as the active metabolite. Plasma concentrations 
of both the prodrug and the active metabolite are proportional to dose and are unaffected by 
co-administration of food.  
•  The pharmacokinetics is similar in children although the elimination is faster than in adults 
and adolescents. Oseltamivir has a wide therapeutic window. Thus, no bioequivalence studies 
are needed.  
The  bioequivalence  surrogate  inference  is  in  line  with  the  CHMP  Note  for  Guidance  on 
Bioavailability and Bioequivalence. 
Hence, based on the linear pharmacokinetics they are also considered equivalent to Tamiflu 12mg/ml 
powder for oral suspension. 
•  Dosing regimen 
Tamiflu 45 mg capsule was developed to be administered mainly to children of 1 year of age or older, 
even if it can as well be administered to adults for specific reasons. The recommended dose for these 
45  mg  capsules  is  identical  to  the  weight-adjusted  dosing  regimens  recommended  for  children  of 
1 year of age or older for Tamiflu 12mg/ml powder for suspension and should read in section 4.2 of 
the SPC: 
Treatment The recommended dose of Tamiflu is indicated in the table below. The following weight-
adjusted dosing regimens are recommended for children 1 year of age or older: 
Body Weight 
≤ 15 kg 
> 15 kg to 23 kg 
> 23 kg to 40 kg 
> 40 kg 
Recommended dose for 5 days 
         30 mg twice daily 
45 mg twice daily 
60 mg twice daily 
75 mg twice daily 
Prophylaxis: The recommended prophylactic dose of Tamiflu is indicated in the table below. The 
following weight-adjusted dosing regimens are recommended for children 1 year of age or older. 
Body Weight 
≤ 15 kg 
> 15 kg to 23 kg 
> 23 kg to 40 kg 
> 40 kg 
Recommended dose for 10 days 
         30 mg once daily 
45 mg once daily 
60 mg once daily 
75 mg once daily 
•  Clinical efficacy aspects 
No clinical efficacy data was submitted. 
•  Clinical safety aspects 
No  safety  study  was  submitted  when  the  MAH  applied  for  this  line  extension  for  Tamiflu  45  mg 
capsule in February 2007. 
EMEA/590316/2008 
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  report  of  the  study  ML16864,  a  post-marketing  retrospective  surveillance  study  of  pregnant 
women exposed to oseltamivir observed from May 2002 to December 2006, was provided by Chugai 
Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. in the response to the D120 LOQ adopted in June 2007. This surveillance 
was performed for the purpose of investigating data pertaining to safety, including data on whether or 
not the pregnant women and the babies born to them suffered any adverse drug reaction.  
In  this  study  ML16864,  17  cases  were  identified  and  73  were  included  in  the  safety  analysis.  The 
outcome of the pregnancy in 2 cases was unknown. Among the neonates and foetuses in the 73 cases, 
the  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  was  8.22%  (6/73);  and the number of episodes of a serious 
adverse event was 7 ( 2 episodes of spontaneous abortion; and 1 episode each of threatened abortion, 
hydrops foetalis, premature baby, cleft lip and palate, and ventricular septal defect). 
The current approved SPC for Tamiflu advices that Tamiflu should be used during the pregnancy only 
in those cases in which the benefits outweigh the risks. The CHMP concluded that an overview of all 
pregnancy  data  available  for  oseltamivir  is  submitted  in  the  context  of  the  next  PSUR  (submission 
planned 20 November 2007) in order to better assess the need to update the section 4.6 of the SPC 
(see annex 4.5 Letter of undertaking dated 13 July 2007). 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the MAH fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan for Tamiflu 45mg capsules. 
Tamiflu RMP version 1.0 was submitted as part of the 45 mg capsules application dossier in February 
2007. 
The MAH submitted the table "Summary of the risk management plan" as agreed on 17 July 2007 as 
part of a new version (Version 1.1) of the risk management plan. The MAH intends to submit a 
revised risk management plan for all formulations of Tamiflu in September 2007. 
Safety issue 
Dehydration 
secondary to 
vomiting and 
diarrhoea (children) 
Fructose intolerance 
(children) 
Skin disorder (skin 
rash, urticaria, 
multiforme, Stevens-
Johnson 
epidermal necrolysis) 
Development of viral 
resistance 
EMEA/590316/2008 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Vomiting and diarrhoea listed in 4.8 of 
the SPC. 
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system 
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC 
“Patients with rare hereditary problems 
of fructose intolerance should not take 
this medicine.” 
Listed in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Regular monitoring of the 
potential for the emergence of 
Tamiflu resistance in the 
circulating influenza virus 
populations. 
Statement on viral resistance in section 
5.1 of the SPC. 
Page 6/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liver and biliary 
system disorder 
(hepatitis, 
elevated liver 
enzymes) 
Neuropsychiatric 
events/delirium 
Important potential 
risks 
Exposure of infants 
through lactation 
Medication error 
(confusion with new 
doses of 30 mg and 
45 mg capsules) 
Off-label use (other 
viral infections) 
Important missing 
information 
Hepatic and renal 
impairment in 
children 
Immunocompromised 
children and adults 
Children <1 year of 
age 
Periodic Resistance Reports from 
NISN and annual update of 
Roche resistance report via the 
PSUR. 
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system 
Listed in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system 
Listed in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system 
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system 
Statement in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
Instructions in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
Statement in section 4.2 of the SPC 
“There is insufficient clinical data 
available in children with renal 
impairment to be able to make any dosing 
recommendation.” 
There is insufficient evidence to make 
any recommendations. 
Statement in section 4.1 of the SPC that 
only indicated in children > 1 year of age.
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system 
The MAH is currently addressing 
the feasibility of a clinical 
development program in this 
patient cohort including adults. 
Safety will be obtained from the 
immunompromised treatment and 
prophylaxis protocols. PK data 
will be generated for any children 
recruited who have hepatic or 
renal impairment. 
Close observation through routine 
pharmacovigilance system; 
Clinical trials NV20234 and 
NV20235 are ongoing 
The safety information obtained 
from two surveillance studies 
conducted in Japanese infants 
below the age of 1 year do not 
indicate any increased reporting 
of events. 
Currently the MAH is 
collaborating with the 
NIH/CASG study group in setting 
up a trial in 
children less than 1 year of age.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that the risks of 
the 45 mg capsules are the same as for the 75mg capsules. One potential concern is the use of reduced 
oseltamivir  doses  by  adults  (on  purpose  or  by  mistake)  which  might  lead  to  inefficacy.  The  MAH 
commits  to  address  this  potential  risk  in  any  material  they  produce.  It  is  important  that  the  safety 
assessment  of  the  45  mg  capsules  is  synchronised  with  the  approved  formulations  of  Tamiflu, 
including the RMP and related safety commitments including resistance reporting, interaction studies, 
information on pregnancies, etc.  
EMEA/590316/2008 
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no  unresolved  quality  issues,  which  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  Benefit  Risk  balance  of  the 
product. 
Safety 
Within  the  dossier  submitted  in  February  2007  the  MAH  did  not  provide  any new safety data. The 
only safety information provided was a surveillance study on pregnant women. The assessment of this 
study needs to be put in the context of the overall picture of the use of Tamiflu in case of pregnancy. 
Therefore the MAH should commit to submit all available safety data on pregnancy in the context of 
the  next  PSUR  for  submission  in  November  2007.  On  the  basis  on  the  safety  data  provided,  the 
CHMP  concluded  that  there  is  no  safety  issue,  which  has  a  negative  impact  on  the  Benefit  Risk 
balance of the product. 
User consultation  
User consultation is not necessary 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Tamiflu  30mg,  Capsule,  hard  in  the  treatment  and 
prevention  of  influenza  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
EMEA/590316/2008 
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
