SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Tamiflu. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Tamiflu is approved for the following indication:  
“Treatment  of  influenza  in  adults  and  children  one  year  of  age  or  older,  who  present  with 
symptoms typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the community. Efficacy 
has been demonstrated when treatment is initiated within two days of first onset of symptoms. 
This  indication  is  based  on  clinical  studies  of  naturally  occurring  influenza  in  which  the 
predominant infection was influenza A (see section 5.1 of SPC). 
Prevention of influenza 
- 
- 
Post  exposure  prevention  in adults  and adolescents  13 years of age  or  older following contact 
with a clinically diagnosed influenza case when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
The appropriate use of Tamiflu for prevention of influenza should be determined on a case-by-
case  basis  by  the  circumstances  and  the  population  requiring  protection.  In  exceptional 
situations  (e.g.  in  case  of  a  mismatch  between the  circulating  and  vaccine  virus  strains,  and  a 
pandemic situation) seasonal prevention could be considered in adults and adolescents 13 years 
of age or older. 
Tamiflu is not a substitute for influenza vaccination.  
The use of antivirals for the treatment and prevention of influenza should be determined on the basis 
of  official  recommendations  taking  into  consideration  variability  of  epidemiology  and  the  impact  of 
the disease in different geographical areas and patient populations”. 
The  active  substance  of  Tamiflu,  oseltamivir  (Ro  64-0796),  is  a  pro-drug  of  the  active  metabolite, 
oseltamivir  carboxylate  (Ro  64-0802).  Oseltamivir  has  been  investigated  for  its  ability  to  inhibit 
neuraminidase activity in influenza A and B viruses. Oseltamivir is a selective inhibitor of influenza 
virus  neuraminidase  enzymes,  which  are  glycoproteins  found  on  the  virion  surface.  Viral 
neuraminidase  enzyme  activity  is  essential  for  the  release  of  recently  formed  virus  particles  from 
infected cells and the further spread of infectious virus in the body. 
Tamiflu was originally tested as hard capsules for oral administration in strength of 75 mg. In order to 
extend  the  treatment  to  children  and  to  patients  who  cannot  swallow  capsules,  a  powder  for  oral 
suspension containing 12 mg/ml of oseltamivir freebase was developed. 
(a) 
Treatment options of influenza 
In most cases, influenza is a self-limiting disease. Thus, a supportive and symptomatic therapy will be 
sufficient. Amantadine and rimantadine inhibit the function of the M2 protein of influenssa a virus. In 
some countries, amantadine is indicated for treatment and prophylaxis of influenza A in adults and in 
children.  Amantadine  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy.  Amantadine  has  effects  on  the  central 
nervous system, including dizziness, insomnia, and headache. Development of drug resistance is not 
uncommon.  The  first  neuraminidase  inhibitor  zanamivir  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  both 
influenza A and B in adults and children of age 12 and older. Zanamivir is relatively well tolerated but 
may  cause  severe  bronchoconstriction  in  sensitive  individuals.  The  efficacy  of  amantadine  and 
zanamivir in the treatment of influenza is modest: the duration of the symptoms is shortened by 1-2 
days. The treatment must be initiated within 48 hours of the onset of symptoms.  
(b) 
Prophylaxis of influenza 
Vaccination is the most important measure in the influenza prophylaxis. Unfortunately, the current use 
of  the  vaccination  is  not  optimal  even  in  the  risk  groups.  Immunisation  complements  the  immunity 
derived from natural infections. The status of immunity in the population modifies the epidemics and 
will  explain  the  differential  sensitivity  of  different  age  groups.  The  current  split  virion  influenza 
1/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vaccines contain antigens from two influenza A strains and one influenza B strain. The relevant strains 
for  the  Northern  hemisphere  are  selected  each  year  on  the  basis  of  epidemiological  data  from  the 
Southern  hemisphere.  New  vaccines,  such  as  live  influenza  vaccines  are  under  development. 
However,  there  are  some  situations  where  vaccination  is  not  possible  or  it  is  ineffective.  In  certain 
populations, such as the elderly and immunocompromised individuals, the response to the vaccination 
may be suboptimal. It is also possible that an antigenic drift will take place after the selection of the 
vaccine strains. This drift may significantly weaken the efficacy of the vaccine.   
During a pandemia, it may be difficult to develop an effective vaccine in sufficient quantities. In these 
situations, other measures to prevent an influenza infection are needed. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Tamiflu contains oseltamivir phosphate as the active substance and is presented in two pharmaceutical 
forms:  hard  capsules  containing  75  mg  oseltamivir,  and  a  powder  for  oral  suspension  containing 
12 mg/ml oseltamivir. 
• 
Hard capsules 
Each hard capsule consists of a grey opaque body bearing the imprint “ROCHE” and a light yellow 
opaque  cap  bearing  the  blue  imprint  “75mg”,  and  contains  98.5  mg  oseltamivir  phosphate, 
corresponding to 75 mg of oseltamivir. 
Other  ingredients  used  in  the  formulation  are  pregelatinised  starch,  talc,  povidone,  croscarmellose 
sodium, and sodium stearyl fumarate.  The capsule shell contains gelatin, iron oxides (red, yellow & 
black) (E172), titanium dioxide (E171), and the printing ink contains shellac, titanium dioxide (E171) 
and FD & C blue 2 (indigo carmine, E132). 
The  capsules  are  packaged  in  boxes,  each  containing  10  capsules  in  a  blister  pack  (laminated 
PVC/PE/PVDC, sealed with aluminium foil). 
• 
Powder for oral suspension 
The  powder  for  oral  suspension  is  presented  as  a  white  to  light  yellow  coloured  granulate,  which, 
when reconstituted forms a white to light yellow, opaque suspension. 
Other ingredients in the formulation are sorbitol, sodium benzoate (preservative), sodium dihydrogen 
citrate, saccharin sodium, a proprietary Tutti Frutti flavour, xanthan gum and titanium dioxide. 
The  primary  container  is  a  100  ml  amber  glass  bottle  with  a  tamper-evident  child-resistant  screw 
closure.  This is supplied with a plastic adaptor, a plastic graduated syringe/oral dispenser and a plastic 
measuring cup (CE marked). 
After reconstitution as directed, with 52 ml of water, the usable volume of oral suspension allows for 
the retrieval of 10 doses, each of 75 mg oseltamivir. 
Active substance 
phosphate, 
Oseltamivir 
(3R,4R,5S)-4-acetylamino-5-amino-3-(1-ethylpropoxy)1-cyclohexene- 
1-carboxylic acid, ethyl ester, phosphate (1:1), is a highly water soluble and non-hygroscopic pro-drug 
of the active metabolite, oseltamivir carboxylate. It has not yet been described in any pharmacopoeia. 
A second polymorph may be formed under extreme circumstances, which are not encountered during 
synthesis of the drug substance or manufacture of the finished product.  This is therefore unlikely to be 
clinically relevant, especially considering the high solubility of the active substance. 
The starting material in the synthesis of oseltamivir phosphate is the epoxide, Ro 64-0792, which itself 
is synthesised in five steps from either (-)-shikimic acid or (-)-quinic acid, both of which are derived 
from  biological  sources  (plant  or  fermentation  origin).  Shikimic  acid  originates  from  star  anise  or 
fermentation  (using  genetically  engineered  E.  coli)  and  quinic  acid  from  cinchona  bark.  There  are 
three  chiral  centres  and  particular  attention  has  been  paid  to  the  control  of  stereochemistry.  The 
chirality  of  the  epoxide  starting  material  has  been  confirmed,  and  mechanistic,  spectroscopic  and  
2/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
X-ray structure analysis have shown that oseltamivir phosphate, as used in the pre-clinical and clinical 
development program and intended for marketing, is in the 3R, 4R, 5S configuration. 
TSE letters of certification from the manufacturers of fermentative (-)-shikimic acid are provided.  The 
manufacturers  of  (-)-shikimic  acid  confirm  that  no  materials  of  animal  origin  are  used  in  the 
production of (-)-shikimic acid. 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  and  identity  (IR  or  NIR,  HPLC, 
presence of phosphate) and tests and limits for assay (HPLC), impurities (specified, unspecified and 
total), residual organic solvents (acetone, ethanol, n-heptane & for reworked material only, methylene 
chloride), heavy metals, water and specific optical rotation. 
All methods in the specification have been satisfactorily described and all the key methods validated.  
The  limits  have  been  justified  by  reference  to  batch  analyses  data,  which  confirm  both  compliance 
with the proposed specification and consistency between batches. 
One  related  substance,  a  2-azido  compound  arising  from  the  route  of  synthesis,  was  found  to  be 
mutagenic when present in levels exceeding 0.03%.  The active substance passed the Ames test when 
this  related  substance  was  not  present.    However,  the  pre-clinical  assessment  concludes  that  any 
genotoxic or carcinogenic potential due to the minute quantities this 2-azido compound actually found 
can probably be discounted, and therefore this impurity is not clinically relevant in the amounts found 
in routine production.  In general the active substance appears to be of high purity. The most recent 
lots  of  active  substance  manufactured  were  recorded  as  having  a  total  impurity  content  of 
approximately  0.2%.  Satisfactory batch  analysis records  have  been  provided,  generated  by validated 
methods, to indicate that this purity will be consistently achieved from batch to batch. 
Stability  data  for the active  substance  for up  to  36  months are available for  registration batches. No 
remarkable changes have occurred between 24 and 36 months storage.  The Applicant has provided an 
undertaking that they will submit updated stability data for production batches in order to confirm the 
claimed retest period of 36 months, when these data become available. 
Other ingredients 
• 
Hard capsules 
All  excipients  used  to  manufacture  oseltamivir  phosphate  capsules  comply  with  the  appropriate 
monographs of the current PhEur. 
The  applicant  declares  that  the  sodium  stearyl  fumarate  used  is  not  of  animal  origin,  and  TSE 
certificates are provided for the PhEur gelatine used in the manufacture of capsule shells. 
Satisfactory specifications are provided for the primary packaging materials. 
• 
Powder for oral suspension 
All  excipients  used  to  manufacture  oseltamivir  phosphate  capsules  comply  with  the  appropriate 
monographs  of the  current PhEur except sodium  dihydrogen citrate,  which is  tested according  to  an 
FAO nutrition paper.  Although sorbitol is tested according to the monograph of the current PhEur the 
specification includes an additional test for residual glucose (HPLC), which is limited to a maximum 
of 0.03 % for stability purposes.  (Refer to stability section below.) 
The  qualitative  composition  of  the  "Tutti  Frutti,  Permaseal  11900-31"  flavour  and  a  satisfactory 
specification  is  presented.  Satisfactory  specifications  are  also  provided  for  the  primary  packaging 
materials. 
Product development and finished product 
The product was initially formulated as hard capsules (75 mg), but in order to facilitate the treatment 
of both children and patients who cannot swallow capsules, a powder for oral suspension (containing 
12 mg/ml of oseltamivir free base) was developed. 
• 
Hard capsules 
These are conventional release hard gelatin capsules, the contents of which are manufactured by a wet 
granulation  process  using  conventional  pharmaceutical  technology.  All  the  manufacturing  processes 
and in-process controls are satisfactorily described. During process development the lubricant sodium 
3/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
stearyl fumarate was used as a surrogate marker for homogeneity, however, this has been justified by 
several reasons, including that it is the component of lowest concentration in the formulation. 
The product specification contains the relevant tests and limits for a product of this type. Tests include 
appearance, identification of the active substance (HPLC & TLC), assay (HPLC), limits for impurities 
(specified, unspecified and total impurities of 0.6% max. at release and 0.8% max. over the claimed 
shelf-life).  In  addition  there  are  also  tests  for  uniformity  of  fill-mass  (PhEur),  dissolution, 
identification of colorants and microbial limits (PhEur). 
The analytical methods are described and suitably validated, in accordance with current guidelines. 
Batch analysis records indicate satisfactory product uniformity. 
• 
Powder for oral suspension 
Preservative efficacy data from during development support the selection of 0.1% sodium benzoate as 
the preservative system. 
After  reconstitution  of  the  powder  (30  g)  with  the  stated  amount  of  water  (52  ml),  followed  by 
vigorously shaking for approximately 15 seconds, the volume of the resulting suspension in the bottle 
is  75  ml.  The  15-second  shaking  time  has  been  proven  to  be  sufficient  to  obtain  a  homogeneous 
distribution  of both oseltamivir  phosphate and sodium  benzoate  in  the  resulting suspension.   During 
development  only  minimal  settling  was  observed  in  the  reconstituted  suspension  stored  for  up  to  
17  days.  This  settling  is  considered  negligible,  since  under  user  conditions  the  reconstituted 
suspension is to be administered either twice a day for 5 days, or once a day for at least 7 days, with 
shaking  prior  to  each  administration,  and  a  uniform  product  was  demonstrated  to  be  obtained  under 
these conditions (as defined in the instructions of the SPC and patient leaflet). 
A  compatibility  study  demonstrates  the  compatibility  of  the  oral  dispenser  with  the  formulation  and 
the suitability for its intended use. 
The manufacturing processes for the powder for oral suspension are satisfactorily described, and the 
in-process controls and their specifications have been justified. 
The product specification contains the relevant tests and limits for a product of this type. Tests include 
appearance (before and after reconstitution), identification of the active substance (HPLC and TLC), 
preservative and colorant, assay of active substance (HPLC), sodium benzoate (lower limit justified by 
preservative efficacy test data), limits for impurities (specified, unspecified (0.3% at release) and total 
impurities  (1.0%  at  release)),  pH,  microbial  quality. The  limits  of  the  impurities  are  justified  by  the 
safety studies. 
The analytical methods are described and suitably validated, in accordance with current guidelines. 
• 
Hard capsules & Powder for oral suspension 
The  Applicant  has  provided  an  undertaking  that  they  will  review  the  specifications  of  both 
pharmaceutical  forms  when  the  final  shelf-life  stability  data  become  available  for  the  validation 
batches. 
Stability of the Product 
• 
Hard capsules 
Degradation products increased only very slightly at normal and intermediate storage conditions, and 
moderately  at  accelerated  testing  conditions.    The  stability  data  are  in  accordance  with  ICH/CPMP 
guidelines  and  confirm  the  proposed  shelf-life  of  36  months  for  the  product,  with  no  special 
precautions for storage. 
• 
Powder for oral suspension 
There are differences between the active  substance degradation in the  hard  capsules and the powder 
for  oral  suspension.    During  storage  of  the  latter,  a  moderate  increase  in  degradation  was  observed 
under normal and intermediate storage conditions, and a strong non-linear increase of degradation was 
found  under  accelerated  storage  conditions.    Two  main  degradation  products,  Ro  68-7010  and  
Ro  69-4458,  have  been  identified  in  the  powder  for  oral  suspension.  Ro  68-7010  is  the  reaction 
4/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
product  of  oseltamivir  phosphate  with  residual  glucose  in  the  excipient  sorbitol,  and  Ro  69-4458  is 
formed by degradation of Ro 68-7010. 
The stability data provided confirm the proposed shelf-life of 24 months when stored below 30°C. 
The proposed in-use shelf-life, following reconstitution as directed in the SPC, is 10 days at 2°C- 8°C 
(in  a  refrigerator),  and  this  has  been  supported  by  the  appropriate  physical,  chemical  and  microbial 
data. 
Preservative efficacy testing has been carried out on bottles which have been stored for 18 months at 
26°C/60%  RH  and  then  reconstituted  for  10  days.  The  results  demonstrate  the  satisfactory 
antimicrobial  efficacy  of  the  preservative,  as  the  requirements  of  PhEur  were  met.  This  is  in 
accordance with the levels of sodium benzoate determined in the same samples. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
In vitro studies  
In  vitro  antiviral  assays  (plaque  reduction,  virus  yield,  or  cytopathic  effect)  of  influenza  viruses  of 
active oseltamivir were mainly performed using Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells.  Active 
oseltamivir inhibited in vitro the influenza neuraminidases with Ki and IC50 values in the nanomolar 
range (0.06 – 1 ng/ml), but had little or no activity against other neuraminidases from other sources 
(human  liver,  rat  liver  or  uterus  or  two  bacterial  and  parainfluenza  and  Newcastle  disease 
neuraminidases).  Clinical  isolates  and  laboratory  strains  of  A-type  virus  seem  to  be  more  sensitive 
than B-type viruses to active oseltamivir. Ki value for a resistant mutant enzyme was >27000x above 
the value obtained for a wild type enzyme. 
• 
In vivo studies  
In vivo studies used highly virulent viruses to infect mice. Effects of lethal intranasal doses of mouse-
adapted  influenza  A  (H1N1,  H3N2)  and  B  were  inhibited  dose-dependently.  Other  animal  models 
tested  in  vivo  were  ferrets  and  chickens.  In  ferrets,  symptoms  of  disease  caused  by  clinical  isolates 
(A/H1N1  or  A/H3N2  or  B)  were  slightly  relieved  by  oseltamivir  doses  that  give  the  exposure 
comparable  to  that  observed  in  clinical  trials.  Chickens  infected  by  a  highly  pathogenic  avian 
influenza A virus (H7N7) and treated with 10 or 100 mg/kg oseltamivir (Ro 64-0796) had lower virus 
titres and a slightly improved survival in the high dose group only. 
Resistance-linked point mutations have been found, one of which was found only in clinical samples. 
All mutations are near to the active site of the neuraminidase enzyme and may thus modify substrate-
enzyme  binding.  Viruses  carrying  resistance  mutations  to  active  oseltamivir  in  their  neuraminidase 
were less virulent in mice and ferrets.  
Thus  far,  resistant  influenza  B  viruses  have  not  been  found  in  in  vitro  studies  or  among  clinical 
isolates. 
• 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
Central nervous system  
Acute or chronic effects of oseltamivir and active oseltamivir (Ro-640802) were marginal. In an acute 
study, two mice had convulsions following a 250-mg/kg intravenous bolus injection. Severe vomiting 
occurred  in  a  few  marmosets  at  high  dose  level.  Therefore,  both  oseltamivir  and  active  oseltamivir 
were tested in a receptor-ligand binding assay that included CNS receptors known to be involved in 
nausea and emesis. Neither compound had a significant effect on any receptor at concentrations of up 
to 10 mM (3 mg/ml). In isolated guinea pig ileum samples, neither compound affected the basal tone 
of the ileum. Thus, the reason for oseltamivir-induced nausea and vomiting remains unknown. 
No specific alerts rose in safety pharmacology studies specifically designed to examine the effects of 
test  drug  on  the  CNS  of  rodents;  effects  on  general  behaviour,  spontaneous  locomotory  activity, 
pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsions and hexobarbital-induced sleeping time in mice, as well as the 
response to a painful stimulus and effects on respiratory rate and body temperature in rats. 
5/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Cardiovascular system 
A  preliminary  cardiovascular  safety  study  in  vivo  was  carried  out  in  anaesthetised  dogs:  delay  in 
cardiac repolarisation associated with intravenously administered active oseltamivir (dose 100 mg/kg) 
was  observed.  Aconfirmatory  study  in  six  male  and  six  female  conscious  dogs  found  statistically 
significant  increase  in  the  QT  interval  associated  with  decreased  HR.  After  corrections  QT/HR  rate 
with the Van de Water and Friedica’s formula, no statistical effects on heart rate, QTc interval or any 
other ECG parameter or wave-form existed. In vitro studies in isolated sheep Purkinje fibres or rabbit 
Purkinje  fibres  (with  positive  controls;  sotalol,  cisapride  and  sparfloxacin,  after  artificial  stimulation 
by  0.2  or  1.0  Hz)  could  not  confirm  the  in  vivo  findings  in  anesthetised  dogs.  The  effects  of 
oseltamivir  on  potassium  currents  using  recombinant  hERG  channels  expressed  in  mammalian  cells 
were studied (with cisapride, sparfloxacin and terfenadine as positive controls); no significant change 
in  potassium  current  at  any  concentration  was  observed.  Thus,  there  appears  not  to  be  a  preclinical 
safety signal for cardiac toxicity. 
• 
Gastrointestinal system 
No  gastrointestinal  damage  was  found  in  repeated  dose  studies  in  marmoset,  dogs,  rats  or  mice  at 
relevant  dose  levels.  Two  mid  dose  (2  x  100  mg/kg/day)  group  male  marmosets  and  one  low  dose  
(2  x  25  mg/kg/day)  group  female  were  found  to  have  osteomalacia.  According  to  the  applicant, 
marmosets are prone to this condition in the laboratory, due to their large requirement for vitamin D3.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The oral absorption of active oseltamivir has not been studied in humans but its low bioavailability in 
rat and marmoset  (< 5%) suggests a low bioavailability also in humans. Absorption of oseltamivir is 
high ( >70%) in all species.  
Pharmacokinetic  characteristics  changed  with  age.    A  particularly  high  exposure  to  oseltamivir  was 
found  in  7-day  old  rats  with  increased  mortality  in  7-day  old  rats  at  high  dose  levels;  for  example, 
AUC(0-24h) after a 500 mg/kg dose was 335 µg.h/ml compared to only 74 µg.h/ml in adult animals.  
Distribution of drug-related material in animals after oral administration of oseltamivir results in high 
levels  in  the  lung,  gastrointestinal  tract,  kidney  and  liver  being  3-6  times  that  of  blood.    Active 
oseltamivir  has  also  been  measured  in  bronchoalveolar  fluid  of  rats  at  similar  levels  to  those  of 
plasma. Penetration of the drug to central nervous system is low (25% of plasma) and foetal exposure 
is  15  -  20%  of  that  of  the  mother,  in  terms  of  AUC,  in  both  rats  and  rabbits.    Binding  of  active 
oseltamivir to plasma proteins is <4% and that of oseltamivir (prodrug) is moderate in several species.  
In  a  dog  study,  plasma  concentrations  of  both  oseltamivir  and  active  oseltamivir  were  comparable 
after  a  single  75  mg  dose  of  capsules  or  oral  suspension.  Cytochrome  P450-mediated 
biotransformation  reactions  of  oseltamivir have not  been  observed in ferrets  and  primates, including 
man. The relative rate of hydrolysis of the pro-drug - enzyme activity found in the cytoplasm of the 
hepatocyte  is  man  >>  marmoset  >>  ferret  and  the  bioavailability  of  the  active  oseltamivir  is  in  the 
same  order.  Differences  in  human  hepatic  esterases  have  been  demonstrated.  In  vitro,  studies  show 
quite  a  wide  range  in  enzyme  activity,  which  might  potentially  arise  through  pharmacogenetic 
differences or disease.  Despite this wide range  in enzyme activity, a 75  mg  oral dose of  oseltamivir 
has been shown to  generate a consistent systemic exposure to active oseltamivir (Ro 64-0802), with 
little inter-subject variability. 
No inhibition of the biotransformation of specific substrates of the major forms of cytochrome P450 
(CYP1A,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6,  CYP2E1,  CYP3A4,  CYP4A)  by  oseltamivir  or  the  active 
compound was observed when a pool of human liver microsomes (10 livers) was used.  
The  excretion  of  active  oseltamivir  is  99%  renal  in  man  and  predominantly  into  urine  in  all  other 
species as well. The renal clearance in man is about 2.5 times that of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) 
suggesting that tubular secretion will occur. Human organic ion transporter type 1 (hOAT1) is a major 
component of active tubular secretion in the kidney. Probenecid inhibited this transporter when it had 
been transfected into Chinese hamster ovary cells (Ki = 4.3 mM), but no effects were seen with  active 
oseltamivir (Ki = 45000 mM)  or amoxicillin  (Ki = 7600 mM). Other disposition mediators were not 
tested.  
6/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
If  chronic  toxicity  tests  result  with  no  hepatic,  kidney  and  other  specific  organ  toxicity,  the  more 
detailed  evaluation  of  disposition  mediators  (such  as  BAEP  (bile  acid  excretory  pump),  MPR1-7, 
ABC-cassette) can be omitted. However, interaction with P-glycoprotein has been investigated. Good 
substrates  of  P-gp  such  as  cyclosporin,  saquinavir  and  ritonavir  effectively  inhibited  P-gp  mediated 
efflux  of  oseltamivir.  This  could  increase  the  oral  absorption  of  the  pro-drug  into  the  gut-wall  and 
hence  into  the  systemic  circulation  but,  as  its  absorption  is  already  80-85%,  the  maximum  rise  in 
systemic exposure would be less than 25% . The weak affinity of oseltamivir for P-gp means that it 
will  have  no  affect  on  the  P-gp-mediated  efflux  of  drugs  such  as  saquinavir  and  cyclosporin.  The 
active oseltamivir, Ro 64-0802, does not interact to any measurable extent with P-gp.  
Multiple dose pharmaco/toxicokinetic studies were carried out in rats, mice, rabbit, ferrets and dogs. 
Peak  concentrations  of  oseltamivir  were  usually  observed  between  0.5  and  1  hour  after  dosing  with 
those of active oseltamivir, one or two hours later. Species-dependent variation in the pharmacokinetis 
of oseltamivir was observed. There was a tendency for the maximum concentrations of the active drug 
to appear later at high doses, suggesting that its rate of formation was saturable.  
Toxicology 
Acute and special toxicity studies were conducted in rats, mice, rabbits and guinea pigs. Teratogenic 
potential was evaluated in rats and rabbits. The selection of animal models is appropriate.  
• 
Single dose toxicity:  
Acute  toxicity  studies  in  mice  and  rats  (adults  and  juvenile)  administered  orally,  suggested  a 
maximum  non-lethal  dose  of  2000  mg/kg  of  Ro  64-0796/002.  No  drug-related  deaths  or  adverse 
toxicological effects were observed. 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity:  
The main repeated dose studies with oseltamivir were carried out in the rat (27 weeks) and marmoset 
(39-weeks) 
Rats 
In a two-week oral toxicity study, in adult and juvenile (unweaned 7-20 days of age) Sprague-Dowley 
rats receiving Ro 64-0796/001, the no edverse effect level  (NOAEL) of Ro 64-0796/002 was found to 
be 500 mg/kg/day.  
In a main four-week study, groups of weaned 21 to 49 day old rats, the NAOEL of Ro 64-0796/002 
was  500  mg/kg/day.  In  an  adult  rat  study  of  similar  duration  the  NOAEL  was  250  mg/kg/day.  
At  1500  mg/kg/day  cortico-medullary  mineralisation  and  associated  changes  were  found  in  the 
kidneys. 
A  27-week  oral  toxicity  study  was  conducted  in  Sprague-Dawley  CD  rats  at  doses  of  0,  50,  200  or 
1000  mg/kg/day  of  the  pro-drug,  Ro  64-0796/002.  Increased  incidences  of  mild  cortico-medullary 
mineralisation and chronic progressive nephropathy were observed histologically at 1000 mg/kg/day. 
These changes were not reversible after two or six months without treatment.  
Although some minor disturbances were noted for occasional clinical pathology parameters at 50 and 
200 mg/kg/day, significant toxicologic/pathologic changes were related to the kidneys and confined to 
the high-dose group.  
Marmosets 
In  a  thirty  nine-week  oral  (gavage)  toxicity  study,  Ro  64-0796/002  was  administered  to  groups  of 
marmosets at dose levels of 50, 200 and 1000 mg/kg/day each given as two daily doses of 25, 100 or 
500  mg/kg/dose,  approximately  2  hours  apart.  The  only  significant  dose-related  adverse  effect    was  
post dosing emesis and salivation. 
A four-week oral study in marmosets at doses of up to 2 x 500 (=1000) mg/kg/day also demonstrated 
good tolerance in all groups. 
Mice 
Groups of mice received 50, 250, 500, 1000 or 1500 mg/kg/day of Ro 64-0796/002 for 4 weeks. The 
doses were chosen in view of the good overall tolerance in rat and marmoset studies. There was one 
7/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
death  in  the  1500  mg/kg/day  group  due  to  renal  lesions  (a  combination  of  cortico-medullary 
mineralisation,  tubular  dilation  and  papillary  necrosis).  At  high  dose  levels,  males  showed  slight 
increases  in  hemoglobin  concentration,  RBC  count  and  packed  cell  volume.  No  changes  were 
observed in females. Microscopically, there was a slight increase in minor focal nephropathy at doses 
of 500 or 1000 mg/kg/day. Renal papillary necrosis and segmental atrophy were observed in isolated 
animals in the 500, 1000 or 1500 mg/kg/day dose groups. 
• 
Genotoxicity/Mutagenicity  
No mutagenic potential was observed with or without metabolic rat “S9” mix in Ames’ test, with five 
Salmonella typhimurium tester strains. No induction of TK-mutants was found in a mouse lymphoma 
tk+/- test by active oseltamivir. No chromosomal aberrations were observed with Oseltamivir as tested 
in human lymphocytes. Mouse micronucleus test in vivo (2000 mg/kg) with relevant exposure to the 
drug  and  metabolites  was  negative.  Tests  of  impurities  or  degradation  products  gave  positive 
mutagenecity results in Ames test for  Ro-1637, a 2-azo derivative of Ro 64-0976. The limit for this 
specific impurity is now 0.01%, which considered being safe. 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
Active  oseltamivir  was  assayed  in  a  26-week  TG:  AC  transgenic  mouse  model  with  dermal 
application.  No  significant  evidence  for  the  formation  of  skin  papillomae  was  found.  Skin  reactions 
were  comparable  to  those  of  controls.  However  according  to  the  ILSI  programme,  this  asay  is  not 
optimal to detect non-genotoxic carcinogens. 
The applicant has recently completed a two-year rat carcinogenicity study. In addition, interim results 
of a standard mouse carcinogenicity study were submitted. 
In  the  two  years  carcinogenicity  study  in  the  rat,  a  slightly  increased  mortality  was  observed  in  the 
male high dose group. There was a positive trend for dose dependent increase in blood vessel tumours 
(haemangiomas,  haemangiosarcomas;  p<  0.01,  lymphoid  tumours  p<  0.038)  in  males  and  epithelial 
tumours (p<0.034) in females at the terminal kill. The positive trend in the carcinogenesis study was 
worrying considering the treatment of children and the prophylaxis in general.  
The applicant presented several lines of evidence that help in rejecting the hypothesis that oseltamivir 
has  a  carcinogenic  potential;  In  vitro  and  in  vivo  genotoxicity  studies  show  no  evidence  of  either 
mutagenic  or  clastogenic  potential  for  either  oseltamivir  or  the  active  metabolite.  The  TgAC  mouse 
assay  with  the  active  metabolite  was  negative.  Histological  data  from  unscheduled  deaths  and 
scheduled sacrifices in the two-year rat carcinogenicity study show no evidence of an excess of pre-
neoplastic lesions in drug-treated animals compared to controls.  
The  findings  in  the  rat  study  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  clear  signal.  Thus  far,  there  is  no  reason  to 
suspect that neuraminidase inhibitors would promote non-genotoxic carcinogenesis. The available data 
from  the  TgAC  model  and  from  the  ongoing  standard  mouse  carcinogenicity  study  support  the 
concept that the findings in the rat are of minor significance. It is foreseen that prolonged exposure to 
oseltamivir  through  repetitive  seasonal  use  will  be  very  limited.  Therefore,  concerns  regarding 
carcinogenicity  are  considered  resolved  and  the  applicant  commits  to  provide  CPMP  with  the  final 
study report of the ongoing mouse carcinogenicity study as soon as it becomes available. 
In the Syrian hamster embryo (SHE) cells assay, an increased number of morphologically transformed 
colonies  were  found  in  “a  dose  dependent  manner"  with  Ro  64-0796/002  but  not  Ro  64-0802,  the 
active compound. The concentrations shown to be negative in the assay were > 250 fold higher than 
oseltamivir concentrations likely to be achieved in both adults and children.  
• 
Reproductive toxicity 
In  a  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development  study  conducted  in  male  and  female  rats  with  Ro 
64-0796/002  at  0,  50,  250  and  1500  mg/kg/day  no  significant  adverse  effects  on  fertility,  mating 
performance or early embryonic development were observed up to 1500 mg/kg/day dose level.  
In  pre-  and  post-natal  studies  in  rat’s  prolongation  of  parturition  and  pup  viability  and  impaired 
development  were  observed  at  high  doses  (1500  mg/kg/day).  In  rabbits,  the  dose  of  500  mg/kg/day 
increased the number of abortions and 1500 mg/kg/day was markedly toxic for rabbits. No effect level of 
treatment was 50 mg/kg in rabbits. 
8/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  teratology  study  in  rats,  the  oral  administration  of  Ro  64-0796/002  0,  50,  250  and  
1500 mg/kg/day to female rats showed no teratogenic effects. In a teratology study in rabbits, with the 
oral administration of Ro 64-0796/002, no effect of treatment on the incidence of foetuses with minor 
skeletal  abnormalities  was  observed.  The  incidence  of  variants  (increased  numbers  of  thoracic  and 
caudal vertebral centra, extra 13th rib and vestigial 13th rib) was increased in a dose-related manner in 
the  groups  treated  at  150  and  500  mg/kg/day.  Treatment  with  Ro  64-0796/002  during  the  period  of 
organogenesis  at  500  mg/kg/day  elicited  significant  maternal  toxicity.  In  conclusion,  there  was 
evidence of embryotoxicity, in the 150 and 500 mg/kg/day dose regimen, which may indirectly be due 
to Ro 64-0796/002 maternal toxicity. However, this indirect relation was not proved. 
• 
Local Tolerance: 
In  an  oral  tolerance  study  in  rabbits,  mortalities  occurred  in  non-pregnant  rabbits  at  750  and  
l500  mg/kg/day  of  Ro  64-0796/002.  Abnormalities  of  the  stomach  wall  and  intestinal  contents  e.g. 
erosion and reddening of the stomach mucosa were observed in dead animals. 
In a seven days local gastrointestinal tolerance study in dogs, 2 males and 2 females received 75 mg 
capsules containing Ro 64-0796/002 at 12 hours intervals for seven days to study local gastrointestinal 
tolerance. There were no clinical and morphological indications of local or systemic intolerance.  
• 
Other toxicity 
The phototoxic potential of Ro 64-0796/002 was tested in an in vitro study in the presence of UVA 
radiation. There was no evidence of any potential toxicity. 
A  maximisation  test  in  guinea  pigs  with  Ro  64-0796/002  revealed  that  the  test  compound  is  a  skin 
sensitiser. 
The  active  form  of  oseltamivir  inhibited  the  proliferation  of  an  influenza-specific  human  T-cell  line 
significantly  in  vitro.  There  is  no  clinical  evidence  that  this  in  vitro  observation  of  slight  immuno-
suppression is of relevance to the benefit/risk ratio for oseltamivir. 
• 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk Assessment: 
In  a  carbon  dioxide  evolution  test  for  determination  of  biodegradability,  Ro  64-0796/002  was  not 
readily biodegradable.  
In an acute toxicity study in Daphnia magna, Ro 64-0796/002 was classified as harmful according to 
the EU Directive 67/548/EEC as amended. 
Exposure estimations according to the worst case scenario for the environment has been carried out. 
According  to  the  draft  regulations  a  quotient  of  PEC  and  PNEC  Predicted  No-Effect  Concentration 
equal  or  less  than  one  is  taken  as  indicative  of  environmental  compatibility  for  a  given  active 
substance. (PECwater [Europe] /PNECwater = µg/l 33 ng/l 173 ˜0.005). 
As the PEC/PNEC ratio is significantly smaller than 1, no long-term negative effect on the aquatic 
environment  is  to  be  expected.  Even  using  the  lowest  NOEC  (NOEbC  algae,  10  mg/l)  for 
extrapolating the PNEC, the PEC/PNEC ratio is still below 0.02. 
Considering ecotoxicological properties,use pattern, dosage and maximal estimated 
Amounts of Oseltamivir to be placed on the market, no exposure levels of concern to the environment 
are to be expected. 
• 
Impurities: 
Toxicity tests of impurities or degradation products showed positive mutagenicity results for Ro-1637, 
a 2-azo derivative of oseltamivir, in Ames test (see Mutagenicity).  
In  a  two  weeks  impurity  toxicology  study  (active  oseltamivir,  64-0951,  64-0952),  a  granulomatous 
focus in epididymis was found in 2/5 rats. Up to six weeks studies Ro 64-0952 did not produce any 
abnormal  findings  with  the  safety  factor  of  10-20  times  the  maximum  human  dose.  Toxicity  of 
impurities present on granules for oral suspension was tested in rats. No remarkable signs of toxicity 
were noticed. 
9/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Mutagenic  potential  of  the  contaminants  Ro  64-0795/000,  Ro  64-0792/000  and  Ro  64-0789/000 
performed by Ames test did not reveal cytotoxic or mutagenic activity. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Cortico-medullary  mineralisation  and  a  mild  enhancement  of  chronic  progressive  nephropathy  were 
observed  in  rats.  The  observed  nodules  consisted  mainly  of  calcium  phosphate  and  protein.  It  is 
concluded  that  this  may  be  due  to  increased  phosphate  salt  concentrations  caused  by  oseltamivir 
phosphate at high dose levels, which results in a reduction in the calcium/phosphate ratio. This appears 
to  be  a  species-specific  phenomenon  since  no  histopathological  changes  were  found  in  marmoset 
kidneys after four or 39 weeks at 1000 mg/kg/day.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  efficacy  of  Tamiflu  has  been  investigated  in  the  treatment  of  influenza  in  the  adults  and  in 
children.  Furthermore,  studies  have  been  conducted  in  postexposure  prophylaxis  and  in  seasonal 
prophylaxis at the community level. In total, 11675 subjects participated in the clinical program, 7642 
of  which  received  oseltamivir  and  4033  placebos.  Most  patients  had  influenza  A.  In  the  treatment 
studies,  influenza  B  was  diagnosed  in  117  and  178  individuals  in  the  placebo  and  Tamiflu  groups, 
respectively. The product has not been investigated in critically ill or in immunocompromised patients. 
The  approved  indication  is,  “treatment  of  influenza  in  adults  and  children  one  year  of  age  or  older, 
who present with symptoms typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
Efficacy  has  been  demonstrated  when  treatment  is  initiated  within  two  days  of  first  onset  of 
symptoms.  This  indication  is  based  on  clinical  studies  of  naturally  occurring  influenza  in  which  the 
predominant infection was influenza A (see section 5.1 of SPC). 
Prevention of influenza 
- 
Post  exposure  prevention  in adults  and adolescents  13 years of age  or  older  following  contact 
with a clinically diagnosed influenza case when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
The appropriate use of Tamiflu for prevention of influenza should be determined on a case-by-
case  basis  by  the  circumstances  and  the  population  requiring  protection.  In  exceptional 
situations  
(e.g. in case of  a  mismatch between the circulating  and  vaccine  virus strains,  and a pandemic 
situation) seasonal prevention could be considered in adults and adolescents 13 years of age or 
older. 
- 
Tamiflu is not a substitute for influenza vaccination.  
The use of antivirals for the treatment and prevention of influenza should be determined on the basis 
of  official  recommendations  taking  into  consideration  variability  of  epidemiology  and  the  impact  of 
the disease in different geographical areas and patient populations”. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  applicant  has  performed  three  clinical  challenge  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  to  investigate  the 
dose response of oseltamivir in the treatment of "experimental" influenza A and B:  
In  the  Phase  II  Clinical  Study,  Protocol  GS  97-801,  80  healthy  male  and  female  volunteers  were 
recruited.  Sixty-nine individuals (86%) developed influenza after the challenge and were included in 
the  final  evaluation.  The  five-day  treatment  was  started  28  h  after  the  inoculation  of  virus, 
A/Texas/36/91  (H1N1),  intranasally.    The  doses  of  oseltamivir  were  20  mg  twice,  100  mg  twice,  
200 mg twice, 200 mg once and placebo twice daily. 
The primary efficacy parameter, AUC of virus titer, for the post hoc pooled active drug-treated group 
was found to be significantly lower than that of the placebo group (p=0.020).   In the combined drug-
treatment groups, there were also significant reductions in the duration of viral shedding (by half) and 
time to amelioration of symptoms as compared to placebo.  
Nasal  mucus  weights  from  subjects  in  the  drug-treated  groups  were  found  to  be  reduced  by  half 
compared to those in the placebo group. 
10/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment  were  evaluated 
In  the  Phase  II  Clinical  Study  Protocol  NP15717,  pharmacokinetics  (PK),  pharmacodynamics  (PD) 
and  antiviral  efficacy  of  oral  oseltamivir 
in  healthy  volunteers 
experimentally  inoculated  with  human  influenza  B  virus  (Yamagata/16/88).  Doses  of  75  or  150  mg 
twice  daily  commenced  at  24  h  post-inoculation  and  continued  for  five  days  were  compared  with 
placebo  in  60  randomised  subjects  of  whom  46  showed  evidence  of  infection  (more  than  4-fold 
increase  in  HAI  titre).  The  mean  AUC  virus  titre  for  the  pooled  active  treatment  groups  (75  mg  +  
150 mg: 30 subjects) were reduced by 44% and median AUC by 81% compared to placebo. However, 
none  of these differences was statistically  significantly  different  from  placebo.   The higher  dose did 
not  appear  to  be  better  than  75  mg  twice  daily  for  any  of  the  efficacy  variables.    There  were  no 
between-group differences in HAI antibody titres.  
In  the  other  Phase  II  Clinical  Study,  Protocol  NP15827,  in  experimental  influenza  B  infection, 
antiviral  efficacy  of  75  mg  oseltamivir  twice  daily  for  5  days  was  compared  to  placebo  in  
117  volunteers.  The  first  dose  was  taken  24  h  after  the  inoculation.  Twenty-  eight  out  of  
117 individuals were excluded due to lack of infection.  The primary efficacy parameter, area under 
the curve (AUC) of virus titers, was significantly smaller in the Tamiflu group compared to placebo.  
The duration of viral shedding was also significantly reduced in the active treatment group, 43 + 6.3 
(SE) h, compared to placebo, 93 + 12, p=0.0005.   Less than 30% of the subjects in the Tamiflu group 
exhibited virus shedding 36 h after start of treatment, that is, after the third dose.  
The applicant has performed two clinical studies in healthy volunteers to investigate the dose response 
of oseltamivir in the prophylaxis of influenza A and B: 
In the Phase II prohylaxis Study, Protocol GS 97-802, 37 healthy volunteers were nasally inoculated 
with  human  influenza  virus  A/Texas/36/91  (H1N1).  The  duration  of  the  oseltamivir/placebo 
administration    was  5  days.    Dosages  were  100  mg  once  or  100  mg  twice  daily  of  oseltamivir  or 
placebo.  Subjects were inoculated at 24 h after the first dose.  Six out of 21 (29%) subjects in the two 
active groups had influenza as determined by HAI antibody titres only.  The difference between the 
placebo  group,  8  out  of  12  (67%),  was  not  statistically  significant.    None  of  the  21  subjects  in  the 
oseltamivir  groups  shed  virus  compared  with  6/12  in  the  placebo  group.    The  composite  symptom 
score  was  significantly  reduced  and  time  to  alleviation  of  symptoms  was  significantly  shorter  with 
both  oseltamivir  doses.    The  mean  (SD)  AUC  of  the  sums  of  composite  symptoms  (7  symptoms) 
scales was 237 (185) for placebo, 91 (139) for oseltamivir 100 mg once daily and 123 (74) for 100 mg 
twice daily. 
In the Phase II prophylaxis Study, Protocol NP 15757, 58 healthy volunteers were nasally inoculated 
with human influenza B virus. Treatment with either 75 mg of oseltamivir once or twice daily or with 
placebo  was  started  24  h  before  inoculation,  and  was  continued  for  7  days.    There  was  no 
between-group  difference  in  the  proportion  (80-89%)  found  to  be  infected.  Fifty  six  per  cent  of  the 
subjects in the combined  oseltamivir  group  and  74%  in the  placebo  group were found to  shed  virus 
(NS).      The  peak  (1.2  vs.  2.3,  p=0.040)  and  AUC  of  virus  titres  (58  vs.  161,  p=0.033)  were 
significantly lower, and the duration of shedding shorter (52 vs. 86 h, p=0.034) for the pooled treated 
groups.   AUC of the composite symptom scores and time to alleviation of symptoms were in favour 
of  the  oseltamivir  treatment  groups.  The  mean  +  SD  of  the  composite  symptom  scores  were  
157  +  135,  123  +  105  and  116  +  98  after  placebo,  75  mg  once  daily  and  75  mg  twice  daily, 
respectively. 
Viral resistance to oseltamivir: 
The  applicant presents data on  more than 2500 individuals who have been screened for oseltamivir-
resistant  viruses  before  treatment.  Posttreatment  samples  from  1500  individuals  were  also  assessed. 
The main method to show resistance was the neuraminidase phenotype assay. Genotype assays were 
not performed on routine basis. 
Virus strains that are resistant (or less sensitive) to oseltamivir (carboxylate) can be generated in vitro 
by  serial  passages  of  the  virus  in  the  presence  of  the  drug.  The  degree  of  reduced  sensitivity  varies 
from 2 fold to 30000 fold. NA mutations are virus sub-type specific. Mutations in the hemagglutinin 
causing  a  decreased  sensitivity  to  oseltamivir  have  been  described  in  vitro.  Thus,  resistance  may  be 
due to mutations in both NA and hemagglutinin. However there is no evidence for resistance arising 
via HA mutation in vivo. The screening for resistant strains will be based on the phenotype of the NA 
11/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
only, as there is currently no HA phenotype assay available. Thus, should resistant virus arise via HA 
mutation, they will not be detected. 
Resistance was observed in 2/55 cases in the treatment study of experimental A virus infection and in 
no case of 70 individuals with experimental B virus infection. Resistance was seen in 10/248 children 
with a natural influenza infection but only in 4/1009 adults. The longer virus shedding in children may 
explain the difference. The number of cases that were examined in the prophylaxis studies is too small 
for any conclusions. 
The  phenotypic  and  genotypic  assays  were  compared  in  samples  from  240  adults.  Only  one  case  of 
NA  mutation  that  was  not  detected  by the  phenotypic  assay  was  found  by  the  genotypic  assay.      In 
children,  nine  cases  of  reduced  sensitivity  to  oseltamivir  were  detected  from  which  three  cases  may 
have been raised during the expansion of the original sample. Genotypic analysis revealed no cases of 
resistant  influenza  B  viruses.  The  resistance  developed  after  day  4  and  the  viruses  were  cleared  in  
2-4  days.  The  presence  of  a  resistant  virus  seemed  not  to  be  associated  with  an  atypical  clinical 
presentation of the infection. 
The genotypic analysis of the hemagglutinin revealed a similar frequence of mutations in the placebo 
and  Tamiflu  groups.  In  contrast  to  the  in  vitro  studies,  no  concomitant  hemagglutinin  and  NA 
mutations were found in clinical samples.  
Cross-resistance  with  zanamavir  does  not  occur  in  most  types  of  mutations.  However,  the  most 
common mutation in the clinical isolates, R292K, leads to a moderate resistance to zanamavir as well. 
No cross-resistance between oseltamivir and amantadine/rismantadine has been observed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  of  oseltamivir  oral  preparations,  capsules  and  oral  suspension,  were  evaluated  in 
adults and in children at the age of 1 or older. In addition, studies have been performed in patients with 
renal  insufficiency,  including  patients  in  dialysis.  Oseltamivir  is  readily  absorbed  from  the 
gastrointestinal  tract  after  oral  administration  of  oseltamivir  phosphate  (pro-drug)  and  is  extensively 
converted by predominantly hepatic esterases to the active metabolite (oseltamivir carboxylate).   In 
healthy humans, at least 75% of an oral dose enters the systemic circulation as the active metabolite.  
Food  does  not  significantly  affect  the  rate  or  extent  of  absorption  of  oseltamivir.    Plasma 
concentrations  of  both  the  prodrug  and  the  active  metabolite  are  proportional  to  dose  and  are 
unaffected  by  co-administration  of  food.    Oseltamivir  carboxylate  is  distributed  widely  to  different 
tissues, including the respiratory tract.  The mean volume of distribution at steady state of the active 
metabolite is approximately 24 litres in humans.  The active metabolite is not metabolised further but 
is  eliminated  practically  completely  in  urine.  The  renal  elimination  takes  place  through  both 
glomerular  filtration  and  tubular  secretion.  The  apparent  half-life  of  elimination  of  the  active 
compound in plasma is 6 to 10 hours in healthy subjects and is similar in the elderly.  Thus, no dose 
adjustment is needed.  
The  applicant has carried out two clinical studies of pharmacokinetics in children.  In the Study NP 
15826,  single  doses  of  2  mg/kg  of  the  prodrug,  as  an  aqueous  suspension  of  30  mg  in5  ml,  were 
administered to 18 subjects of 5 -18 years of age.  The subjects were divided in three age groups, each 
with 6 children.  Clearances of both the prodrug and the active moiety were faster in younger children, 
resulting in 75% and 60% exposure to these molecules, respectively, in 5-8 years olds compared with 
the 13-18 years group.  The average Cmax for the active metabolite was 183, 231 and 319 ng/ml, and 
AUC 2746, 3208 and 4534 ng*h/ml in the age groups 5 - 8, 9 - 13 and 13 - 18 years.  The average 
T½elim ranged from 7.8 to 8.8 h, and no effect of age was seen.  Exposure of 5 - 9 years olds to the 
active metabolite was similar to that of adults with a 75 mg dose, whereas 2 mg/kg in 13 - 18 year olds 
was  about  equivalent  to  a  150  mg  dose  in  adults.  The  PK  profile  and  T½elim  suggested  that 
steady-state  trough  levels  in  children  dosed  with  2  mg/kg  twice  daily  would  be  within  the  range 
measured in adults with 75 or 150 mg twice daily dosing.  
The  applicant  has  also  investigated  the  kinetic  exposures  of  the  doses  proposed  for  the  market  in 
children of  <5 years of age.  Study PP16351 was not included  in the MAA but was submitted as a 
response to the CPMP List of Questions. In this  study,  12 healthy children aged 1-2  years old were 
given a single oral dose of 30mg and an additional 12 children aged 3-5 years were given a single dose 
of 45mg oseltamivir.  The mean body weight normalised doses given were approximately 2.9mg/kg. 
12/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The  findings  in  this  study  are  consistent  with  the  results  of  other  studies  in  children  (NP15826, 
WV15758), demonstrating that the hepatic conversion of oseltamivir to Ro 64-0802 is similar to the 
conversion  rate  in  adults  while  the  body  weight  normalised  clearance  of  Ro  64-0802  is  faster  in 
younger children than in older children and adults. The revised clearance was slightly lower than that 
derived from the literature and extrapolation of data from older children. The revised values lie well 
within the steady-state exposures following 75mg bid and 150mg bid oseltamivir doses (mean 2713-
5466  ng.h/mL;  range  1600  to  7700  ng  h/mL)  that  were  previously  shown  to  be  both  safe  and 
efficacious in adults.  
Oseltamivir  pharmacokinetics  were  evaluated  in  patients  with  impaired  renal  function  in  study  WP 
15648  that  compared  100  mg  twice  daily  dosing  for  4  days  in  four  groups  of  five  subjects  with 
creatinine clearance (CrCl) in the range of < 30 ml/min, 31-60 ml/min, 61-90 ml/min and > 90 ml/min. 
With the prodrug, there was no accumulation in any group over 6 days. Both Cmax and AUC (0 - 12h) 
increased with decreasing CrCl. A linear relationship between CrCl and renal clearance of the prodrug 
was  demonstrated  by  results  on  day  6.    Cmax  and  AUC  (0-12)  of  the  active  drug  increased  with 
decreasing CrCl on days 1 and 6.  On day 6, AUC in the group with CrCl < 30 ml/min was > 10-fold 
compared  to  subjects  with  normal  renal  function,  and  there  were  2.5-fold  and  3.5-fold  differences 
between the results of the group > 90 ml/min and the groups 60-90 and 30-60 ml/min, respectively. 
Accumulation of active oseltamivir between days 1-6 was relatively greater as CrCl declined, with a 
three-fold  increase  in  AUC  in  the  <  30-ml/min  group,  two-fold  in  the  31-60  ml/min  group,  but  less 
thantwo-fold  for  those  with  CrCl  60-90  ml/min.  A  linear  relationship  between  CrCl  and  renal 
clearance  of  the  active  drug  was  demonstrated  by  day  6  results.  Trough  levels  at  120  and  132  h 
suggested  that  there  was  some  diurnal  variation  in  clearance  of  these  molecules,  regardless  of  renal 
function.  A  dose  reduction  in  patients  with  severe  renal  dysfunction  is  recommended:  75  mg  once 
daily dosing in subjects with CrCl 10 - 30 ml/min in treatment of influenza as further detailed in the 
SPC. 
No  drug-drug  interactions  are  expected  via  CYP  P450  enzymes.  No  significant  interaction  was 
observed with either paracetamol or amoxycillin. Probenecid reduced renal clearance of the prodrug 
by one third, but had no significant impact on AUC.  A 50% reduction in renal clearance of the active 
oseltamivir was also seen and AUC increased by 2.5-fold. A near complete inhibition of renal tubular 
secretion  appeared  to  have  occurred.    This  suggests  that  oseltamivir  is  itself  a  weak  inhibitor  of 
anionic  renal  tubular  secretion,  and  may  have  a  modest  ability  to  compete  with  other  drugs  for  this 
elimination pathway. This possibility is mentioned in the SmPC. 
Clinical efficacy  
Treatment 
another 
randomised, 
Four major studies have assessed the safety and efficacy of oseltamivir for the treatment of influenza 
in  adults.  The  safety  and  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for  the  treatment  of  influenza  in  otherwise  healthy 
adults  aged  between  18  and  65  years  was  investigated  in  two  randomised,  placebo-controlled  trials 
(WV15670 and WV15671) that together enrolled a total of 1355 patients. The safety and efficacy of 
oseltamivir for the treatment of influenza in elderly patients (65 years of age or older) was investigated 
patients 
in 
trial 
(WV15819/WV15876/WV15978). 
(WV15812/WV15872) enrolled 404 subjects to evaluate the efficacy of oseltamivir for the treatment 
of  influenza  in  adults  and  adolescents  ≥  13  years  of  age  with  chronic  cardiac  and/or  respiratory 
conditions.  Two  other  randomised  placebo-controlled  studies  (M76001  and  JV15823)  provide 
supportive  data  on  the  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  in  adults  and  adolescents  ≥  13  years  of  age  and  in 
Japanese  subjects  aged  ≥  16  years,  respectively.  Two  major  randomised,  placebo-controlled  studies 
have  assessed  the  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for  the  treatment  of  influenza  in  children.  One  of  these 
(WV15758)  included  698  otherwise  healthy  children  between  1-12  years  of  age.  Another  trial 
(WV15759/WV15871) enrolled 335 children aged 6-12 years with chronic asthma. 
placebo-controlled 
Further, 
study 
randomised, 
placebo-controlled 
enrolled 
741 
one 
of 
Prophylaxis 
Three  major  randomised  placebo-controlled  studies  have  investigated  the  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for 
the  prevention  of  influenza.  One  seasonal  prophylaxis  study  (WV15673/WV15697)  included  1562 
unvaccinated healthy individuals aged 18 to 65 years. Another seasonal prophylaxis study (WV15825) 
13/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enrolled  572  elderly  subjects,  most  of  whom  had  received  influenza  vaccine  prior  to  the  study 
influenza  season.  The  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for  the  post  exposure  prevention  of  influenza  within 
families included 962 contacts of patients with an influenza-like illness (WV15799). Supportive data 
on the seasonal prevention of influenza by oseltamivir are derived from a study of 385 elderly subjects 
(WV15708) and a study of 308 Japanese subjects > 16 years of age (JV15824)  
Dose-response studies and Main Clinical Studies  
Dose response studies 
The  proposed  dose  regimens  (75  mg  once  or  twice  daily  in  adults  and  2  mg/kg  in  children)  were 
essentially  based  on  non-clinical  studies  and  pharmacokinetic  exposure  data  as  described  in  the 
previous sections. 
Main studies  
Treatment 
• 
Case definition 
For  enrollment  of  patients  in  the  treatment  trials,  a  standardised  definition  of  influenza  illness  was 
used in an attempt to identify patients with influenza on clinical grounds. The clinical case definition 
of influenza illness in adults consisted of the presence of: (1) fever ≥ 37.8oC (or ≥ 37.5oC in the studies 
of elderly subjects); (2) at least one respiratory symptom (cough, nasal congestion, or sore throat); and 
(3) at least one systemic symptom (fatigue, chills/sweats, myalgia, or headache). The case definition 
of  influenza  in  children  consisted  of  the  presence  of:  (1)  fever  ≥  37.8oC;  and  (2)  either  cough  or 
coryza. In the prophylaxis studies, the definition of clinical influenza was identical to the clinical case 
definition in the adult treatment studies, with the exception that the requirement for fever was ≥ 37.2oC 
(instead of ≥ 37.8oC). Influenza could be confirmed by laboratory tests in approximately 70% of the 
patients enrolled to the treatment studies by using the above-mentioned clinical criteria. 
• 
Efficacy endpoints 
In all adult treatment studies, the primary efficacy parameter was the median time to alleviation of all 
seven symptoms: feverish feeling, myalgia, headache, sore throat, cough, overall discomfort, and nasal 
stuffiness or runny nose. The patients scored each of these symptoms twice daily on a diary card using 
a  4-point  scale  (0=absent,  1=mild,  2=moderate,  3=severe).  Alleviation  of  all  symptoms  was 
considered to occur at the start of the 24-hour period in which the scores for all symptoms were either 
0 or 1, and remained either 0 or 1 for at least 21.5 hours (the latter allowing for a 10% time window 
for  completing  diaries  on  consecutive  days).  Although  arbitrary,  the  primary  outcome  used  in  the 
studies is considered to provide a robust measure of the duration of illness that is also relevant from 
the individual patient's point of view. Further, time to alleviation of various symptoms has been widely 
used in clinical studies of this nature, including studies of zanamivir for the treatment of influenza. It 
is a conservative endpoint that may underestimate the treatment effect. Secondary efficacy parameters 
used  in  the  treatment  studies  included  AUC  of  total  symptom  score  and  duration  or  AUC  of  viral 
shedding.  The  primary  efficacy  parameter  in  the  treatment  studies  of  children  was  time  to  freedom 
from  illness  which  was  defined  as  the  length  of  time  from  the  start  of  the  treatment  to  the  point  at 
which the child had (1) no or only minor cough and nasal symptoms, (2) temperature ≤ 37.2oC, and (3) 
been able to resume normal daily activities. 
• 
Analysis 
In  the  treatment  studies,  the  Intent-to-Treat  Infected  (ITTI)  population  was  the  primary  population 
used for efficacy analyses. The ITTI population included subjects with laboratory-confirmed influenza 
infection who had received at least one dose of the study medication. 
• 
Efficacy results in otherwise healthy adults 
The safety and efficacy of oseltamivir for the treatment of influenza in otherwise healthy adults aged 
between 18 and 65 years was investigated in two randomised, placebo-controlled trials (WV15670 and 
WV15671. The studies established the efficacy of oseltamivir in the treatment of influenza infection in 
this population, as shown in the following table. 
14/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
to 
Time 
become 
afebrile (h) 
to 
all 
Time 
alleviation 
of 
symptoms 
(h) 
of 
AUC 
total 
symptom 
score (h) 
AUC  of 
virus  titer 
(log10TC
ID50.hour
s/mL) 
virus 
Duration 
of 
shedding 
(h) 
WV15670 
Placebo (N=161) 
Oseltamivir  75  mg  b.i.d. 
(N=158) 
p-value 
73.5 
43.6 
116.5 
87.4 
943.0 
773.3 
130.8 
78.2 
71.0 
70.2 
p=0.0018 
0.0168 
0.0073 
0.0259 
0.0917 
reduction/days 
% 
reduction 
of 
40.6%/1.2 
25%/1.2 
64.6 
41.5 
103.3 
71.5 
962.6 
597.1 
126.7 
111.4 
70.2 
66.8 
p=0.0011 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
0.2951 
0.0332 
35.8%/0.96 
30.8%/1.3 
WV15671 
Placebo (N=129) 
Oseltamivir  75  mg  b.i.d. 
(N=124) 
p-value 
%  of  reduction/days  of 
reduction 
PROPHYLAXIS 
• 
Case definition  
In  the  prophylaxis  studies,  the  definition  of  clinical  influenza  was  identical  to  the  clinical  case 
definition in the adult treatment studies, with the exception that the requirement for fever was ≥ 37.2oC 
(instead  of  ≥  37.8oC).  Laboratory-confirmed  influenza  infection  was  based  on  the  detection  of 
influenza virus in nasal or throat swab specimens, or a 4-fold or greater rise in anti-HA. The primary 
efficacy  parameter  used  in  the  prevention  studies  was  laboratory-confirmed  clinical  influenza. 
Secondary parameters in the prevention trials included laboratory-confirmed asymptomatic influenza, 
laboratory-confirmed  nonsymptomatic  influenza  (=symptomatic,  but  not  fulfilling  the  criteria  for 
clinical influenza), clinical influenza-like illness, complications of influenza, and the incidence of viral 
shedding. 
• 
Prevention studies in healthy adults 
The two separate studies (WV15673D and WV15697D) had an identical a double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled design, and the results had been preplanned to be pooled together. Healthy adults 
between  18  and  65  years  of  age  meeting  the  eligibility  criteria  were  identified  before  the  influenza 
season.  When  influenza  appeared  in  the  community,  the  participants  returned  to  the  clinic.  At  this 
baseline visit, the subjects were randomised to receive on a 1:1:1 basis either oseltamivir 75 mg o.d., 
oseltamivir 75 mg b.i.d., or placebo for 6 weeks.  
A total of 1562 subjects were randomised in the studies combined (520 in 75 mg o.d., 521 in 75 mg 
b.i.d.,  521  in  placebo).  In  the  ITT  population  (n=1559),  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  laboratory-
confirmed clinical influenza was 1.2% in the 75 mg o.d. group, 1.3% in the 75 mg b.i.d. group, and 
4.8%  in  the  placebo  group.  During  the  2-week  follow-up  period  after  discontinuation  of  the 
prophylactic  medication,  7  subjects  developed  laboratory-confirmed  clinical  influenza  (1  in  the  o.d. 
group, 4 in the b.i.d. group, and 2 in the placebo group). 
A total of 25 patients withdrew from the study because of adverse events (8 in the o.d. group, 7 in the 
b.i.d. group, and 10 in the placebo group). 
15/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Post exposure prophylaxis in the families 
Study  WV15799  was  a  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  to  investigate  the  safety 
and  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for  the  prevention  of  influenza  in  subjects  aged  ≥  13  years  after  contact 
with a family member with an influenza-like illness. 
 Eligible  families  (3-8  individuals)  were  identified  before  the  start  of  the  expected  influenza  season. 
After influenza was known to circulate in the community, the families were requested to return to the 
clinic  within  48  hours  of  any  member  of  the  household  developing  an  influenza-like  illness.  This 
index case received relief medication but was not treated with any anti-influenza medication. All other 
family members were randomised to receive either oseltamivir 75 mg o.d. or placebo for 7 days. All 
members of a single household received the same study medication, and daily contact with the index 
case was to be maintained. The subjects were followed up for 21 days.  
A total of 962 contacts were randomised to the study (498 oseltamivir, 464 placebo). A total of 163 of 
377  index  cases  were  confirmed  to  have  influenza  virus  infection;  the  contacts  of  84  index  cases 
received  oseltamivir  and  those  of  79  index  cases  received  placebo.  The  age  of  the  contacts  ranged 
between 12 and 85 years (mean, 33 years). Thirteen per cent of the contacts in both groups had been 
vaccinated against influenza during the study season.  
In families with a confirmed index case, the proportion of contacts with laboratory-confirmed clinical 
influenza  during  the  treatment  period  was  1%  in  the  oseltamivir  group,  compared  with  12%  in  the 
placebo  group.  Oseltamivir  also  reduced  the  number  of  clusters  in  which  at  least  one  contact 
developed laboratory-confirmed clinical influenza by 89% (p<0.001). 
Eighteen  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  and  none  in  the  oseltamivir  group  had  influenza  A  infection 
(treatment effect 100%, p=0.002). On the other hand, influenza B virus infection was confirmed in 6 
placebo  recipients  and  in  2  subjects  on  oseltamivir  (treatment  effect  67.5%,  p=0.227).  In  the  ITT 
population,  laboratory-confirmed  clinical  influenza  type  B  was  documented  in  13  contacts  in  the 
placebo group, compared with 3 contacts in the oseltamivir group (78.4% efficacy, p=0.015). 
Five subjects withdrew prematurely from  the study because of  adverse events (all in the oseltamivir 
group). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
TREATMENT 
• 
Influenza B 
The  pooled analysis of the efficacy of Tamiflu against influenza B from all clinical studies includes 
117 and 178 influenza B-infected individuals in the placebo and Tamiflu groups, respectively. In the 
Tamiflu groups, the duration of the illness in adults was shortened (from the median of 127.6 hours) 
by 15.8 hours (not significant) in the influenza B-infected individuals as compared to 23.8 hours in the 
influenza A-infected individuals. The largest proportion of influenza B-infected individuals was seen 
in the pediatric study WV15758 in otherwise healthy 1-12 years old children. In the whole population, 
Tamiflu  reduced  the  time  to  freedom  from  illness  by  approximately  one  third  by  using  various 
definitions/scales.  In  the  influenza  B-infected  population,  the  only  significant  improvement  in  the 
Tamiflu group was seen in the median duration of all symptoms (difference of 40h, 41% reduction). 
Otherwise, the size of the effect was small in the influenza B-infected population as compared to the 
whole population (see table). 
Parameter 
Time 
to 
freedom  from 
illness (h)1 
to 
Time 
return 
to 
normal  health 
(h)1 
                       All influenza patients 
Placebo 
137.0 
Tamiflu 
101.3 
Difference1 
35.83 
                        Influenza B patients 
Placebo 
137.0 
Tamiflu 
125.3 
Difference1 
11.72 
111.7 
67.1 
44.63 
111.7 
90.1 
21.52 
16/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Calculated for medians 
The  applicant  has  made  an  additional  pooled  analysis  of  adult  and  pediatric  studies  by  using  the 
complex  fever,  cough  and  coryza  as  the  outcome  measure.  By  using  this  approach,  the  size  of  the 
effect was similar in the whole (27%) and in the influenza B-infected population (22%). However, if 
the  outcome  was  defined  according  to  the  primary  outcome  measure  or  by  the  alleviation  of  all 
influenza symptoms, the size of the effect was much smaller in the influenza B-infected population. 
The  efficacy  of  Tamiflu  in  prevention  of  influenza  B  can  be  evaluated  by  looking  at  the  results  of 
post-exposure  prophylaxis study WV15799: Influenza B  was  diagnosed in  13/462 individuals in  the 
placebo group and in 3/493 individuals of the Tamiflu group (p = 0.0101). The number of influenza 
cases in the other prevention studies was too small for any conclusions. 
• 
The elderly 
WV15819/WV15876/WV15978  (three  identical  substudies  pooled)  was  a  multicenter,  double-blind, 
randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  investigating  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for  the 
treatment  of  influenza  in  elderly  patients  aged  65  years  or  older.  The  mean  age  of  the  subjects  was  
73 years. A total of 43% of the patients had received influenza vaccine before the influenza season of 
the  study,  and  8%  of  the  subjects  had  a  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease.    In  the  ITTI 
population, the observed difference (in favour of oseltamivir) in the median time to alleviation of all 
symptoms  of  24.9  h  (14%)  was  not  statistically  significant  (p=0.43).  Secondary  illnesses  requiring 
antibiotics were reported in 14% of oseltamivir recipients, compared with 19% in the placebo group 
(p=0.14). Eight patients in the placebo group and 3 in the oseltamivir group were hospitalised during 
the study (3 patients on placebo because of pneumonia).  
• 
Patients with chronic disease 
Study  WV15812/15872  was  a  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study 
investigating  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for  the  treatment  of  influenza  in  adults  and 
adolescents  ≥  13  years  of  age  who  had  chronic  cardiac  and/or  respiratory  disorders.  In  the  ITTI 
population  (n=251),  the  median  time  to  alleviation  of  all  symptoms  was  151.5  h  in  the  oseltamivir 
group,  compared  with  161.0  h  in  the  placebo  group.  The  observed  median  difference  of  9.5  h  (6%) 
was  not  statistically  significant  (p=0.77).  In  an  exploratory  analysis  of  the  time  to  alleviation  of  the 
acute  febrile  illness  (defined  as  fever,  chills  and  myalgia),  the  duration  of  the  febrile  illness  was 
significantly  shorter  in  the  oseltamivir  group  (median  durations:  oseltamivir  40.8  h,  placebo  57.9  h; 
30%  difference;  p=0.0005).  Secondary  illnesses  requiring  antibiotics  were  reported  in  18%  of 
oseltamivir recipients and in 20% in the placebo group (NS).  
• 
Children 
WV15758  was  a  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  investigating  the 
safety  and  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for  the  treatment  of  influenza  in  children  (aged  1-12  years).  The 
mean  age  of  the  children  was  5.3  years.  Influenza  infection  was  confirmed  in  452  (65%)  children. 
Influenza  A  was  the  predominant  type  of  the  virus,  accounting  for  303  (67%)  of  the  positive  cases, 
influenza B was diagnosed in 148 (33%) children, and one child had both influenza A and B.  
In  the  ITTI  population  (n=434),  the  median  time  to  freedom  from  illness  was  101.3  h  in  the 
oseltamivir  group,  compared  with  137.0  h  in  the  placebo  group.  The  observed  median  difference  of 
35.8  h  (26%)  was  statistically  significant  (p<0.0001).  In  the  ITT  population,  the  difference  in  the 
median duration of illness was smaller (20.9 h) but still statistically significant (p=0.0002). 
Any secondary illnesses (mainly otitis media) requiring antibiotics occurring on or after study day 3 
were  reported  in  17%  of  oseltamivir  recipients  and  in  28%  of  children  in  the  placebo  group 
(p=0.0048). During the first 10 days of the study, 12% of oseltamivir recipients without otitis media at 
baseline  developed  the  complication,  compared  with  21%  of  the  children  on  placebo  (relative  risk, 
0.59, CI 0.36-0.95). For the primary outcome (time to freedom from illness) there was a clear benefit 
of 34% in favor of oseltamivir in children with influenza A (p<0.0001), but in children with influenza 
B  the  difference  was  only  8.5%,  which  was  not  statistically  significant  (p=0.27).  However,  in  the 
analysis of the duration of all symptoms, the difference was statistically significant for both subtypes 
of influenza (influenza A, 35% reduction, p=0.0042; influenza B, 41% reduction, p=0.0081).  
17/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  total  of  40  (6%)  children  were  withdrawn  prematurely  from  the  study,  10  of  whom  because  of 
adverse  events  (oseltamivir  6,  placebo  4).  Vomiting  was  reported  in  14.3%  of  patients  receiving 
oseltamivir, compared with 8.5% in the placebo group. For diarrhea, the corresponding figures were 
8.8% and 10.5%, and for nausea, 3.8% and 4.0%, respectively. Most adverse events were considered 
mild or moderate. Three children on oseltamivir were prematurely withdrawn from the study because 
of adverse events possibly related to the drug (3 vomiting, 1 urticaria). 
WV15759/WV15871  was  a  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study 
investigating  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  for  the  treatment  of  influenza  in  children  aged  
6-12 years with chronic asthma. Eligible children with influenza-like illness of less than 48 hours of 
duration were randomly assigned to receive either oseltamivir 2 mg/kg (maximum 100 mg/dose) b.i.d. 
or  a  matching  placebo  for  5  days.  The  children  were  followed-up  until  Day  28  after  the  start  of  the 
medication.  Influenza  infection  was  confirmed  in  179  (54%)  children  in  the  ITT  population  of  
334 subjects. Influenza A accounted for 104 (58%) of the positive cases and influenza B for 75 (42%) 
of the cases. In the ITTI population (n=178), the median time to freedom from illness was 123.9 h in 
the oseltamivir group, compared with 134.3 h in the placebo group. The observed median difference 
of 10.3 h (8%) was not statistically significant (p=0.54). By the end of treatment, median FEV1 had 
increased  by  10.8  %  in  the  Tamiflu  group  compared  with  a  4.7  %  increase  in  the  placebo  group 
(p=0.0143).  Six  children  were  withdrawn  from  the  study  because  of  adverse  events  (2  oseltamivir,  
4 placebo).  
PROPHYLAXIS 
• 
Elderly 
Study  WV  15825  was  a  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  multicenter  study  of  the 
prevention of influenza in elderly subjects aged ≥ 65 years living in residential homes. The study was 
conducted at 31 different sites in the United States and Europe during the 1998-99 influenza seasons. 
The  randomisation  was  stratified  according  to  influenza  vaccination  status  and  presence  of  chronic 
obstructive airways disease. 
Eligible  subjects  were  identified  within  4  months  before  the  expected  influenza  season.  When 
influenza  appeared  in  the  community,  the  subjects  were  randomly  allocated  on  a  1:1  basis  either 
oseltamivir 75 mg o.d. or placebo for 6 weeks.  
A  total  of  548  subjects  received  the  prophylactic  treatment  (276  oseltamivir,  272  placebo).  The 
demographic characteristics of the groups were comparable at baseline. The mean age of the subjects 
was 81 years (range, 64-96 years). 80% of the subjects had been vaccinated against influenza during 
the study season, and 14% of them had chronic obstructive lung disease.  
In the ITT population (n=548), the proportion of subjects with laboratory-confirmed clinical influenza 
was 0.4% in the oseltamivir group, compared with 4.4% in the placebo group. Further, the incidence 
of  laboratory-confirmed  clinical  influenza  in  the  subgroup  of  subjects  who  had  received  influenza 
vaccine (80% of all  subjects) was  decreased by 91%  in the  oseltamivir recipients (p=0.0028). Apart 
from  one  subject  in  the  placebo  group,  all  subjects  with  laboratory-confirmed  clinical  influenza  had 
received influenza vaccine in the study season. The incidence of influenza complications (otitis media, 
sinusitis,  lower  respiratory  tract  infection,  bronchitis,  or  pneumonia)  was  significantly  lower  in  the 
oseltamivir group than in the placebo group (0.4% versus 2.6%, p=0.037).  
A total of 29 patients withdrew prematurely from the study because of adverse events (18 oseltamivir, 
11 placebo).  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
• 
Influenza B 
The  concentrations  of  oseltamivir  that  are  obtained  in  plasma  with  the  recommended  dose  of 
Oseltamivir  are  sufficient  to  inhibit  the  B  neuraminidase  of  the  less  sensitive  strains  by  99% 
(treatment) or 95% (prophylaxis). The concentrations in plasma and extracellular fluids are similar. In 
general, the IC50 is somewhat higher for B strains as compared to A strains. The number of B strains 
that  have  been  tested  is  still  small.  Oseltamivir  was  also  effective  against  influenza  B  virus  in 
pharmacodynamic studies in rodents as well as in healthy volunteers (AUC of viral titers and duration 
of virus shedding) as described above.  
18/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  additional  analysis  (performed  in  response  to  the  CPMP  concerns  over  the  magnitude  of  the 
effect)  that  covers  308  adult/adolescent  influenza  B-infected  subjects  who  were  enrolled  into  the 
clinical  treatment  trials,  the  median  time  to  alleviation  of  all  symptoms  was  16.8  h  shorter  in  the 
oseltamivir group vs placebo group (p=0.4926). A previous analysis of influenza B-infected children 
in study WV15758 showed a shortening of the disease but the difference was neither statistically nor 
clinically  significant.  When  children  and  adults  are  pooled,  the  difference  becomes  statistically 
significant while the magnitude of the difference remains the same. As described above, the efficacy 
of  Tamiflu  in  prevention  of  influenza  B  can  also  be  evaluated  by  looking  at  the  results  of  post-
exposure prophylaxis study WV15799. Thus, oseltamivir is active against influenza B but  a clinically 
significant treatment effect remains to  be demonstrated. Nevertheless, influenza is a clinical diagnosis 
in the clinical praxis and oseltamir was effective in populations containing both influenza A- and B-
infected  individuals.  The  lower  treatment  effect  of  oseltamivir  in  the  treatment  of  influenza  B  virus 
infections as compared to influenza A is mentioned in the SPC (section 5.1). 
• 
Efficacy in the elderly and in the risk groups  
It can be argued that the studies in the elderly and high risk patients were not adequately powered due 
to  an  unexpectedly  high  variation  in  the  primary  efficacy  variables  consisting  of  non-specific 
symptoms.  The  selected  symptom  complex  was  not  optimal  in  risk  groups  due  to  the  underlying 
diseases  (e.g.  cough  in  chronic  bronchitis  and  asthma)  and  that  the  epidemics  were  mild  (rapid 
spontaneous improvement). Looking at the more specific secondary endpoints, significant differences 
in favour of oseltamir with regard to viral shedding, viral AUC, and duration fever and febrile disease 
were found. The prophylactic use of oseltamivir was associated with very few failures.  
In  an  additional  pooled  analysis  of  elderly  patients  in  five  double-blind,  randomised  and 
placebocontrolled studies, a reduction in the bacterial complications requiring antibiotic treatment was 
noted;  29  /250  patients  and  52  /268  patients  in  the  oseltamivir  and  placebo  group,  respectively 
(p=0.0156,  95%  CI  1.6%  -  14.0%).    Taken  together  the  data  are  compatible  with  a  clinically 
meaningful  effect  of  oseltamivir  in  the  elderly.  However,  the  results  are  not  striking  which  is 
addressed in the SPC (section 5.1). The efficacy of oseltamivir has not been established in other high 
risk patients (chronic cardicac and/or respiratory disease (SPC sections 4.4. and 5.1). This point was 
discussed in an expert meeting. 
• 
Children 
The  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  treatment  in  otherwise  healthy  children  has  been  demonstrated.  In 
influenza-infected  children,  the  time  to  freedom  of  illness  was  shortened  by  35.8h  and  the  time  to 
return to normal health  by 44.5h. Furthermore, the use of  antibiotics for secondary illnesses, mainly 
otitis  media,  as  significantly  reduced.  The  treatment  effect  is  usually  not  dramatic  for  an  individual 
child  but    oseltamivir  may  significantly  reduce  the  burden  of  influenza  epidemics  to  the  health  care 
system. The benefit in asthmatic children has not been convincingly demonstrated but the trends are 
similar  to  those  in  otherwise  healthy  children.  It  is  possible  that  there  is  a  benefit  for  asthmatic 
children  who  are  treated  within  24  h.  The  observed  improvement  of  FEV1  may  not  be  of  major 
clinical  significance  as  such.  However,  the  lack  of  any  adverse  effect  in  asthma  is  important 
considering  the  treatment  alternatives.  The  clinical  significance  of  the  oseltamivir  treatment  of 
children  was  discussed  in  an  expert  meeting.  The  applicant  committed  to  perform  a  new  study  in 
asthmatic children in order to further clarify the potential clinical benefits. 
• 
Secondary illnesses  
The  applicant  shows  that  in  children,  adults  and  adolescents,  oseltamivir  treatment  significantly 
reduced  episodes  of  secondary  illnesses  that  required  antibiotic  treatment.  In  a  pooled  analysis  of 
adults and adolescents, oseltamivir reduced the number of episodes requiring antibiotic therapy from 
13% to 9% (p= 0.0012) by ITTI (influenza-infected individuals) and from 12% to 9% (p= 0.0050) in 
the ITT analysis. The reduction was due to a decrease in the episodes of acute bronchitis. In children 
(=<  12  years),  the  incidence  of  episodes  that  required  antibiotic  treatment  was  higher  in  placebo-
groups both by the ITTI (23 vs 15%, p= 0.0086) and ITT analyses (22 vs 18%, p= 0.0992). The most 
common secondary illness in children was otitis media.  
19/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Viral resistance 
to  oseltamivir  seems 
to 
The  frequency  of  resistance 
amantadine/rimantadine resistance. Studies have suggested that cross-resistance with zanamavir does 
not occur in most types of observed mutations. The database is still relatively small and further studies 
are  warranted  e.g.  on  the  resistance  in  strains  with  different  combinations  of  hemagglutinins  and 
neuraminidases as well as on the possible circulation of a drug-resistant strain e.g. in children who are 
shedding the virus for a longer period than adults.  
low  as  compared 
to  be  relatively 
There  are  data  suggesting  that  mutations  of  NA  are  associated  with  a  reduced  infectivity  in 
experimental models. Thus, there appears to be little concern over the simultanous use of Tamiflu for 
both treatment and prophylaxis, e.g. in a family or in an institution.  
There  are  models  to  predict  the  emergence  of  resistance  in  a  population.  Using  such  models  in  the 
current  database, the applicant finds that the emergence of viral resistance to oseltamivir is not very 
likely. Finally, the oseltamivir-resistant mutant strains are still immunogenic.   
The current clinical data concern predominantly influenza A H3N2 subtype. It is not known whether 
the  mutations  that  decrease  the  sensitivity  to  oseltamivir  will  persist  from  one  influenza  season  to 
another. 
• 
Prophylaxis of influenza 
Oseltamivir  treatment  is  effective  in  preventing  influenza  infection  both  after  exposure  and  at  the 
population level in the seasonal prophylaxis. It was shown that oseltamivir can add to the protection 
provided by influenza vaccination, which is an important finding. For time being, a limited number of 
influenza  A  epidemics  have  been  studied  ant  the  data  of  influenza  B  are  scarce.    The  main  issue 
discussed  in  an  expert  meeting  was  the  magnitude  of  the  clinical  effect  on  population/community 
level. The net benefit is highly dependent on the nature of the epidemics (incidence of infections in the 
general population) and the timing of administration in relation to the influenza epidemic in a given 
region.  These  difficulties  are  highlighted  by  the  results  of  the  major  population  prophylaxis  studies 
(see the following table) 
Table: Prevalence of influenza in the seasonal prophylaxis studies 
Clinical study 
No. Of subjects 
Per cent of infections 
WV15673D/WV15697D(adults)
   Oseltamivir 75mg x 1 
   Oseltamivir 75mg x 2 
   Placebo 
WV15825 (elderly) 
   Oseltamivir 75mg x 1 
   Placebo 
JV15824 (adults) 
   Oseltamivir 75mg x 1 
   Placebo 
WV15708 (elderly) 
   Oseltamivir 75mg x 1 
   Placebo 
520 
521 
521 
276 
272 
155 
153 
194 
191 
1.2% 
1.3% 
4.8% 
0.4% 
4.4% 
1.3% 
8.5% 
0.0% 
0.5% 
20/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results suggest that, during a mild epidemic, the timing of oseltamivir treatment becomes a crucial 
issue. The prophylactic use of oseltamivir without reliable epidemiological information is not feasible. 
This point was discussed in an expert meeting.  
Clinical safety 
Exposure 
The cumulative experience of the use of oseltamivir in more than 7000 patients enrolled in the clinical 
trials suggests that the treatment is not associated with major safety concerns.  
Adverse events 
Across  virtually  all  studies,  gastrointestinal  complaints,  especially  nausea  and  vomiting,  have  been 
more frequently  reported in  the  oseltamivir group than in the  placebo  group (see the table  beneath). 
However, the vast majority of these events have been rated as mild or moderate in intensity, and only 
few subjects were withdrawn prematurely from the studies because of adverse events.  
Table: Summary of adverse events in the pooled adult population of the treatment studies (WV15760, 
WV15671, WV15730, WV15707, WV15812, WV15872, WV15819, WV15876, WV15978) 
Placebo 
N=1050 
32 (3.0%) 
71 (6.8%) 
6 (0.6%) 
21 (2.0%) 
7 (0.7%) 
8 (0.8%) 
10 (1.0%) 
16 (1.5%) 
6 (0.6%) 
8 (0.8%) 
12 (1.1%) 
12 (1.1%) 
10 (1.10) 
31 (3.0%) 
52 (5.0%) 
84 (8.0%) 
Vomiting 
Nausea 
Vertigo 
Abdominal pain  
Fatigue 
Pneumonia 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Dyspepsia 
Sore throat 
Cough 
Herpes simplex 
Nasal congestion 
Dizziness 
Bronchitis 
Diarrhoea 
Ro 64-0796 
75 mg b.i.d. 
N=1057 
85 (8.0%) 
113 (10.7%) 
9 (0.9%) 
23 (2.2%) 
8 (0.8%) 
9 (0.9%) 
11 (1.0%) 
17 (1.6%) 
6 (0.6%) 
6 (0.6%) 
10 (0.9%) 
9 (0.9%) 
6 (0.6%) 
20 (1.9%) 
39 (3.7%) 
58 (5.5%) 
Ro 64-0796 
150 mg b.i.d. 
N=447 
53 (11.9%) 
68 (15.2%) 
5 (1.1%) 
9 (2.0%) 
7 (1.6%) 
2 (0.4%) 
8 (1.8%) 
13 (2.9%) 
6 (1.3%) 
5 (1.1%) 
9 (2.0%) 
5 (1.1%) 
6 (1.3%) 
10 (2.2%) 
0 (0.0%) 
26 (5.8%) 
Table:  Summary  of  adverse  events  in  pooled  prophylaxis  studies  in  naturally  acquired  influenza  by 
event and by dose (WV15763, WV15697, WV15708) 
Placebo 
N=701 
Vomiting 
Nausea 
Insomnia  Headache 
Abdominal pain Sore 
throat  
Fatigue  
Herpes 
Cough  
Nasal 
Diarrhoea Dizziness 
congestion 
simplex 
5 (0.7%) 
39 (5.6%) 
11 (1.6%) 
228 (32.5%) 
17 (2.4%) 
67 (9.6%) 
84 (12.0%) 
6 (0.9%) 
64 (9.1%) 
92 (13.1%) 
27 (3.9%) 
12 (1.7%) 
Ro 64-0796 
75 mg b.i.d. 
N=520 
14 (2.7%) 
76 (14.6%) 
10 (1.9%) 
242 (46.5%) 
21 (4.0%) 
57 (11.0%) 
60 (11.5%) 
4 (0.8%) 
27 (5.2%) 
53 (10.2%) 
23 (4.4%) 
7 (1.3%) 
Ro 64-0796 
75 mg o.d. 
N=710 
22 (3.1%) 
80 (11.3%) 
16 (2.3%) 
263 (37.0%) 
23 (3.2%) 
74 (10.4%) 
92 (13.0%) 
10 (1.4%) 
68 (9.6%) 
85 (12.0%) 
38 (5.4%) 
11 (1.5%) 
21/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events  
There  were  no  important  differences  in  the  reporting  of  serious  adverse  events  in  any  of  the  active 
groups compared with placebo. 
The  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  during  the  on-treatment  period  was  low  and  similar  in  the 
treatment  groups:  13/1050  subjects  on  placebo  and  14/1057  on  oseltamivir  75  mg  b.i.d.  Very  few 
SAEs  were  considered  to  be  treatment-related.  No  deaths  have  been  associated  with  oseltamivir 
treatment in any of the clinical studies.  
The serious adverse event profile in elderly subjects was similar in subjects receiving oseltamivir or 
placebo.  In  the  pediatric  treatment  studies,  13  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  during  the  on-
treatment period (4 on placebo, 9 on oseltamivir). None of these events were considered to be related 
to study treatment, by the investigator or the sponsor. 
A  total  of  47  subjects  had  at  least  one  serious  adverse  event  during  the  on-treatment  period,  in 
prophylaxis studies: 23 on placebo, 21 on oseltamivir 75 mg o.d and 3 on oseltamivir 75 mg b.i.d. The 
serious adverse events reported for oseltamivir were considered by the investigator to be unrelated to 
study  medication,  except  for  two  cases:  angina  pectoris  and  exacerbation  of  COPD,  which  were 
considered to be remotely related. 
The overall rate of premature withdrawal from clinical studies, in treatment of influenza in adults, was 
low and lower in subjects receiving oseltamivir than placebo.  
Further,  the  incidence  of  laboratory  abnormalities  has  been  similar  in  the  oseltamivir  and  placebo 
groups both in the treatment and prophylaxis studies. 
Postmarketing  safety  data  are  available  from  some  countries  where  oseltamivir  is  used  for  the 
treatment  of  influenza.  Rare  cases  of  hypersensitivity,  mainly  rashes,  and  liver  disorders,  such  liver 
enzyme elevations, have been reported. However, the experience of the large-scale prophylaxis with a 
longer  exposure  to  oseltamivir  is  very  limited.  Therefore,  continued  follow-up  of  adverse  events  is 
necessary to discover any infrequent but serious adverse effects of oseltamivir. Subjects with serious 
underlying  diseases  (e.g.  renal,  liver,  cardiac,  malignancies)  have  been  excluded  from  most  major 
clinical trials. However, it is often just these subjects who are considered to be at an increased risk of 
developing  complications  of  influenza  and,  therefore,  may  be  offered  oseltamivir  treatment  or 
prophylaxis 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Oseltamivir is well tolerated by most individuals both in short and in long-term administration. Nausea 
and  vomiting  are  not  uncommon  but  will  rarely  lead  to  the  discontinuation  of  the  treatment.  The 
applicant  has  performed  several  preclinical  studies  of  potential  cardiotoxic  effects  of  oseltamivir. 
These studies as well as the clinical trial data base, analysis of the observed ECG abnormalities, and 
the  current  post-marketing  experience  do  not  raise  cardiac  safety  concerns.  Likewise,  no  obvious 
pattern of central nervous system effects has emerged. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In  general,  the  quality  of  the  product  has  been  well  presented.  The  dossier  indicates  that  the  active 
substance and the finished products are manufactured and controlled in a relevant way, in compliance 
with current EU and ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information has been provided to demonstrate that 
these  manufacture  and  control  processes  routinely  and  consistently  generate  a  product  of  uniform 
quality  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  defined  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics.  However,  at  the  time  of  the  opinion,  the  CPMP  identified  a  few  minor  unresolved 
quality  issues.    These  issues  were  considered  to  have  no  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  balance  of  the 
product  when  used  according  to  the  SPC  and  it  was  agreed  that  they  will  be  resolved  as  follow-up 
measures  post-authorisation. 
22/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
• 
Treatment 
Studies in otherwise healthy adults when predominantly influenza A was circulating in the community 
have demonstrated  that  oseltamivir reduces the duration of naturally  acquired  influenza infection  by 
approximately 30 hours (representing a 25-30% reduction in the time to alleviation of all symptoms) 
when the treatment is started within 36 hours of the onset of symptoms.   
In elderly and chronically ill patients, oseltamivir treatment did not provide a statistically significant 
benefit  over  placebo,  although  the  median  duration  of  illness  was  shortened  by  approximately  
10-25  hours.  When  the  duration  of  febrile  illness  was  studied,  a  significant difference  favouring  the 
oseltamivir group was demonstrated. In addition, a significant reduction of specified lower respiratory 
infections  (mainly  brochitis)  in  the  elderly  patients  was  also  noted  in  an  exploratory  analysis. 
However, the expert group concluded that the warning section of the SPC should include a statement 
on  the  lack  of  demonstrated  efficacy  in  high-risk  patients  with  chronic  cadicac  and/or  respiratory 
disease.  
The  secondary  complications  of  influenza  were  infrequent  in  adults  in  this  clinical  program,  which 
may partly explain why no significant differences could be demonstrated in the individual studies. The 
pooled analysis of the studies showed that oseltamivir was able to reduce the incidence of secondary 
illnesses  requiring  antibiotics,  mainly  bronchitis,  by  approximately  30%.  Moreover,  oseltamivir 
treatment  resulted  in  approximately  40%  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  acute  otitis  media,  the  most 
common complication of influenza in children. The impact of these results on the burden of influenza 
for health care system was discussed in the expert meeting. 
The efficacy in the treatment of influenza in children was largely comparable to the results obtained in 
adults (reduction of illness by approximately 1.5 days). The expert group concluded that influenza is a 
significant  disease  in  particularly  young  children  and  that  the  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  had  been 
demonstrated. In children with asthma, the effect of oseltamivir needed further substantiation and the 
Applicant committed to perform an additional clinical trial in children with bronchial asthma.       
The  efficacy  of  oseltamivir  against  current  influenza  A  strains  cannot  be  disputed.  However,  the 
efficacy  of  oseltamivir  against  influenza  B  infections  has  been  difficult  to  demonstrate.  Across  all 
treatment  studies  in  adults,  influenza  B  viruses  accounted  for  only  11%  of  all  cases  of  confirmed 
influenza.  After  combining  all  adult  studies,  the  median  duration  of  illness  in  oseltamivir  recipients 
was shortened by 16 hours (12% reduction), which did not reach statistical significance. In one study 
in children, 33% of the influenza cases were caused by the B virus. In this study, the median time to 
freedom from illness was not significantly different between the groups, although the median time to 
alleviation of all symptoms was reduced by 41%. Thus, the efficacy of oseltamivir against influenza B 
looks  very  modest  at  best  even  if  one  accepts  the  impact  of  certain  methodological  difficulties.  It 
should be remembered that influenza A and B infections can not be distinguished on clinical grounds. 
Thus,  the  physicians  will  rarely  have  the  knowledge  of  the  type  of  the  virus  by  the  time  treatment 
decision.  
The specificity of the clinical diagnosis in clinical trials was 60-70%. This is obviously the best case 
scenario that can be obtained only in a research program. In other published studies, the corresponding 
rate has ranged between 30% and 80%. In routine praxis, where the support of an organisation (e.g. in 
the timing of the epidemics, systematic evaluation of symptoms) is not available, the specificity of the 
clinical  criteria  may  be  significantly  lower,  especially  during  the  early  and  late  phases  of  influenza 
epidemics. 
The effect of oseltamivir on influensa A and B has been described in section 5.1. of the SPC.  
• 
Prophylaxis 
Oseltamir  treatment  is  effective  in  preventing  influenza  infection  both  after  exposure  and  at  the 
population level in the seasonal prophylaxis. It was shown that oseltamivir can add to the protection 
provided by influenza vaccination, which is an important finding. 
23/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The number needed to treat was high in some studies. This may be due to the nature of the influenza 
epidemics during oseltamivir development and/or to the difficulty of performing large clinical trials in 
a flexible way. The clinical effect on population/community level was discussed in the expert meeting. 
The  net  benefit  is  highly  dependent  on  the  nature  of  the  epidemics  (incidence  of  infections  in  the 
general population) and the timing of administration in relation to the influenza epidemic in a given 
region. The need for accurate epidemiological data in the clinical decision making was emphasized in 
the expert meeting. 
The  duration  and  timing  of  the  influenza  epidemics  vary.  Oseltamivir  administration  should  overlap 
the  peak  of  the  epidemic  that  may  not  occur  at  the  same  time  in  all  communities.  Furthermore, 
epidemics caused by other viruses may cause problems in the clinical diagnosis of influenza. For these 
reasons, there must be a surveillance system in place to guiding the prophylaxis with a neuraminidase 
inhibitor. 
• 
Emergence of resistance 
Oseltamir-resistant  influenza  virus  strains  are  rare.  Resistant  strains  are  relatively  more  common  in 
children. The longer virus shedding in children as compared to adults probably explains this finding. 
The  development  of  oseltamivir  resistance  is  possible  only  in  the  presence  of  the  virus.  Thus,  the 
prophylactic use of oseltamivir as such does not carry a higher risk of resistance. The applicant is co-
sponsoring an independent program for the monitoring of viral resistance to neuraminidase inhibitors 
by  using  samples  provided  by  WHO  and  CDC.  The  applicant  will  also  continue  to  monitor  the 
sensitivy  of  influenza  virus  strains  to  oseltamivir  in  future  clinical  trials.  The  monitoring  system  is 
based on the in vitro NA inhibition test. Positive cases are further analysed by genotyping and by the 
ferret model. This system may not be able to detect all strains with decreased sensitivity, such as those 
that  are  caused  by  mutations  in  the  haemagglutinin.  However,  such  mutants  may  not  have  a  major 
clinical significance due to their apparently lower infectivity.  
Safety 
The cumulative experience of the use of oseltamivir in more than 7000 patients enrolled in the clinical 
trials  suggests  that  the  treatment  is  not  associated  with  major  safety  concerns.  Across  virtually  all 
studies,  gastrointestinal  complaints,  especially  nausea  and  vomiting,  have  been  more  frequently 
reported in the oseltamivir group than in the placebo group. However, the vast majority of these events 
have been rated as mild or moderate in intensity, and only a few subjects were withdrawn prematurely 
from the studies because of adverse events. The incidence of serious adverse events has been largely 
similar  in  the  oseltamivir  and  placebo  groups.  No  deaths  have  been  associated  with  oseltamivir 
treatment  in  any  of  the  clinical  studies.  Further,  the  incidence  of  laboratory  abnormalities  has  been 
similar in the oseltamivir and placebo groups both in the treatment and prophylaxis studies. 
Postmarketing  safety  data  are  available  from  some  countries  where  oseltamivir  is  used  for  the 
treatment of influenza. However, the experience of the large-scale prophylaxis with a longer exposure 
to  oseltamivir  is  very  limited.  Therefore,  continued  follow-up  of  adverse  events  is  necessary  to 
discover any infrequent but serious adverse effects of oseltamivir.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
As discussed above, oseltamivir treatment in children and other risk groups of influenza as well as its 
role in prophylaxis was discussed during a CPMP expert meeting on the 18 February 2002. 
Following the CPMP review of the Applicant’s data and the recommendation from the expert group, 
the  CPMP  concluded  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  oseltamivir  had  been  established.  However,  the 
efficacy was not demonstrated in certain risk groups. The CPMP further agreed that there was a need 
for additional methods for treatment and prevention of influenza infections. On the basis of the current 
knowledge,  neuraminidase  inhibitors  will  not  play  a  major  role  during  typical  influenza  seasons. 
However, they might have a significant role in case of a pandemic or a drift in circulating influenza 
strains after the selection of the vaccine strains. 
24/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicant also agreed to a perform an additional trial in asthmatic children, to submit new clinical 
data on the effect in influenza B as they become available, and to regularly report on the emergence of 
resistance to oseltamivir. 
The  applicant  recognises  the  importance  of  vaccination  and  local  guidelines  for  the  treatment  and 
prophylaxis  of influenza as conveyed in  the  proposed SPC. The  applicant  also commits  to highlight 
the  importance  of  vaccination  in  the  promotional  material  and  to  endorse  an  appropriate  use  of 
oseltamivir that is based on influenza-surveillance data. Introduction of neuraminidase inhibitors in the 
U.S.A. has not decreased the rate of vaccination. The data demonstrate that oseltamivir treatment has 
an effect also in a vaccinated population. Thus, vaccination and chemoprophylaxis are complementary 
measures. Oseltamivir may have an important role in situations, where the vaccination is insufficient 
to  prevent  the  severe  consequences  of  an  influenza  epidemic,  such  as  the  mis-match  between  the 
vaccine and circulating influenza strains as well as the pandemic situation. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
concensus  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Tamiflu  in  the  treatment  and  prophylaxis  of  influenza  was 
favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  in  the  following 
indication:  
“Treatment  of  influenza  in  adults  and  children  one  year  of  age  or  older,  who  present  with 
symptoms typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the community. Efficacy 
has been demonstrated when treatment is initiated within two days of first onset of symptoms. 
This  indication  is  based  on  clinical  studies  of  naturally  occurring  influenza  in  which  the 
predominant infection was influenza A (see section 5.1 of SPC). 
Prevention of influenza 
- 
- 
post exposure prevention in adults and adolescents 13 years of age or older following  contact 
with a clinically diagnosed influenza case when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
The appropriate use of Tamiflu for prevention of influenza should be determined on a case by 
case  basis  by  the  circumstances  and  the  population  requiring  protection.  In  exceptional 
situations  (e.g.  in  case  of  a  mismatch  between the  circulating  and  vaccine  virus  strains,  and  a 
pandemic situation) seasonal prevention could be considered in adults and adolescents 13 years 
of age or older. 
Tamiflu is not a substitute for influenza vaccination.  
The use of antivirals for the treatment and prevention of influenza should be determined on the 
basis of official recommendations taking into consideration variability of epidemiology and the 
impact of the disease in different geographical areas and patient populations”. 
25/25 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
