European Medicines Agency 
London, 27 July 2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
TAMIFLU 
International Non-proprietary Name:  
oseltamivir  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000402/II/0068 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
On 27 April 2009 the World Health Organization (WHO) raised the level of influenza pandemic alert 
from the current phase 3 to phase 4 based on the emergence of a new Influenza A (H1N1) virus and its 
widespread presence in Mexico and the United States of America (USA).  
On  29  April  2009,  the  WHO  raised  the  level  of  influenza  pandemic  alert  to  phase  5,  based  on 
assessment  of  available  information  and  following  expert  consultations.  Advice  was  given  to  all 
countries to activate their pandemic preparedness plans and to monitor unusual outbreaks of influenza-
like illness and severe pneumonia.  
There are presently four antiviral drugs available for treatment of influenza and these belong to two 
inhibitors 
classes:  adamantane 
(oseltamivir  and  zanamivir).  The  novel  influenza  virus  detected  in  humans  has  been  found  to  be 
resistant to amantadine and rimantadine. Laboratory testing however indicated that these viruses may 
be susceptible to oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza).  
inhibitors  (amantadine  and  rimantadine)  and  neuraminidase 
Tamiflu is a centrally authorised product with a marketing authorisation valid since 20 June 2002.  
Tamiflu is indicated in the treatment of influenza in patients one year of age and older who present 
with symptoms typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the community.  It is also 
indicated in post-exposure prevention in individuals one year of age or older. Tamiflu is approved as 
hard capsules and powder for oral suspension.  
Considering the spread of the novel Influenza A (H1N1) and the potential clinical need in case of a 
declared pandemic, the EMEA requested that dosing recommendations in children younger than 1 year 
of  age  for  oseltamivir  should  be  investigated,  therefore,  the  Executive  Director  of  the  European 
Medicines Agency (EMEA) presented on 30 April 2009, a request for a CHMP opinion under Article 
5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
In May 2009 the European Medicines Agency has given guidance on the use of Tamiflu (oseltamivir) 
in children under one year of age in the case of a declared influenza A/H1N1 pandemic.  
•  During an officially declared influenza A/H1N1 pandemic the benefits of the use of Tamiflu 
outweigh its risks in the treatment of children under the age of one year.  
-  The recommended dosage for treatment is 2 to 3 mg per kg body weight twice daily.  
-  The recommended dosage for prophylaxis is 2 to 3mg per kg body weight once daily and 
should not exceed 10 days. 
•  Hospitalisation  of  children  below  1  year  of  age  in  case  of  an  Influenza  A/H1N1  pandemic, 
including  the  children  below  3  months  of  age,  is  recommended  by  the  CHMP.  However  it 
should follow recommendations from Member States depending on the local situation.  
During  its  plenary  meeting  held  in  June  2009,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  Tamiflu  Product 
Information  must  be  updated  to  include  recommendations  on  the  use  of  Tamiflu  for  children  below  
1 year of age in the context of the Novel Influenza (H1N1) pandemic. 
On  17  July  2009,  the  MAH  submitted  this  type  II  variation  II/68  in  order  to  extend  the  therapeutic 
indication  of  Tamiflu  to  include  treatment  of  children  between  6  and  12  months  of  age  in  case  of 
pandemic influenza. 
Page 2 of 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
- Rationale for the proposed change 
During  its  plenary  meeting  held  in  June  2009,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  Tamiflu  Product 
Information  must  be  updated  to  include  recommendations  on  the  use  of  Tamiflu  for  children  below  
1 year of age in the context of the Novel Influenza (H1N1) pandemic. 
Reference  is  made  to  the  Article  45  (1)  of  the  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council, stating: 
“1. By 26 January 2008, any paediatric studies already completed, by the date of entry into 
force, in respect of products authorised in the Community shall be submitted by the marketing 
authorisation holder for assessment to the competent authority. 
The competent authority may update the summary of product characteristics and package 
leaflet, and may vary the marketing authorisation accordingly. Competent authorities shall 
exchange information regarding the studies submitted and, as appropriate, their implications 
for any marketing authorisations concerned. 
The Agency shall coordinate the exchange of information”. 
In  the  view  of  the  EMEA,  the  following  2  studies  fall  under  the  scope  of  the  above  mentioned 
provision as they were already completed by its date of entry into force: 
- Final Summary of Japanese Retrospective Surveillance and Prospective Studies in Children 
Less than 1 Year of Age, 
- The Completed NIH Chart Review - CASG 113 FSR submitted by the MAH in June 2007.  
Additionally the CHMP also considered the following data: 
- Drug safety report 1032998 which evaluates literature, preclinical data and cases of maternal 
exposure recorded in the Roche oseltamivir safety database.  
- Poster  presentation  describing  German  retrospective  survey  –  Influenza  in  Infants  – 
Experience  with  Oseltamivir,  H  Skopnik  and  K.  Siedler,  Klinikum  Worms,  Klinik  fur 
Kinder- und Jugendmedizin, Gabriel-von-Seidl-Straβe 81, D-67550 Worms  
-  Amendment  1  of  Clinical  study  report  MV21118  (A  double-blind,  randomized,  placebo-
controlled study of early oseltamivir treatment of influenza in children 1-3 years of age)  
- NIH/NIAID collaborative antiviral study group (23 April 2009)  
- Evaluation sheet used to perform a structured retrospective analysis of the medical records of 
children  admitted  to  Worms  Hospital  with  a  diagnosis  of  influenza  and  treated  with 
oseltamivir  with  the  parents’  fully  informed  consent  over  5  consecutive  influenza  seasons 
(2003–2007)  
- Analysis of data submitted 
The following information was submitted by the MAH for oseltamivir on 1st May 2009 and assessed 
by the CHMP in the frame of the Article 5(3) procedure:  
- Drug safety report 1032998 which evaluates literature, preclinical data and cases of maternal 
exposure recorded in the Roche oseltamivir safety database.  
-  Poster  presentation  describing  German  retrospective  survey  –  Influenza  in  Infants  – 
Experience with Oseltamivir, H Skopnik and K. Siedler, Klinikum Worms, Klinik fur Kinder- 
und Jugendmedizin, Gabriel-von-Seidl-Straβe 81, D-67550 Worms  
- Final Summary of Japanese Retrospective Surveillance and Prospective Studies in Children 
Less than 1 Year of Age  
-  Amendment  1  of  Clinical  study  report  MV21118  (A  double-blind,  randomized,  placebo-
controlled study of early oseltamivir treatment of influenza in children 1-3 years of age)  
- NIH/NIAID collaborative antiviral study group (23 April 2009)  
- Evaluation sheet used to perform a structured retrospective analysis of the medical records of 
children  admitted  to  Worms  Hospital  with  a  diagnosis  of  influenza  and  treated  with 
Page 3 of 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oseltamivir  with  the  parents’  fully  informed  consent  over  5  consecutive  influenza  seasons 
(2003–2007).  
Additionally,  the  Completed  NIH  Chart  Review  -  CASG  113  FSR  submitted  by  the  MAH  in  June 
2007 was also taken into consideration. 
Assessment of the data can be found in the assessment report of the Article 5(3) procedure published 
on the EMEA website at the following addresses: 
http://www.emea.europa.eu/humandocs/PDFs/EPAR/tamiflu/28766209en.pdf 
http://www.emea.europa.eu/humandocs/PDFs/EPAR/tamiflu/32609509en.pdf 
- Results and Discussion 
Based  on  the  available  data,  the  MAH  provided  on  17  July  2009  dosing  recommendations  down  to 
6 months  of  age,  taking  into  account  the  large  safety  data  from  prospective  and  retrospective 
surveillance studies in 2477 children < 1 year of age, of which more than 300 are 3-6 months of age 
and  100  are  <  3  months.  The  MAH  has  limited  pharmacokinetic  data  from  a  PK/PD  study  which 
indicates that using a dose of 3 mg/kg in children 6-12 months of age provides plasma drug exposures 
in  the  majority  of  patients  similar  to  those  shown  to  be  clinically  efficacious  in  older  children  and 
adults.  
However, the MAH has insufficient PK data in children < 6 months of age at this time to provide more 
precise dosing recommendations in this very young population. 
Therefore, in response to the CHMP request, the MAH proposed to update sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 
and 5.2 of the SPC, and Sections 3 and 4 of the PL for both capsules and suspension with information 
on treatment of children aged between 6 and 12 months during a pandemic influenza. 
It should be noted that due to time constraints, the MAH was not in a position to submit an updated 
version of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) to include this new population. The CHMP agreed that 
the RMP would be submitted in August 2009 for assessment.  
Additionally, Roche committed in June 2009 to provide an analysis of available PK data together with 
any analysis/new information from the ongoing US NIH (WP-20749) study to the CHMP/EMEA in 
September 2009. 
In the frame of the adoption of the CHMP opinion for the variation II/68, the MAH was requested to 
commit to submit a type II variation to update the Product Information in line with the analysis of the 
available PK data including recommendations for 0-6 months of age by 1st September 2009. 
In  June  2009,  Roche  also  committed  to  conduct  a  study  in  Europe  to  test  mixing  and  dosing 
instructions (extemporaneous solution) for: 
- children above 1 year of age based on the current approved dose, which equates to 3mg/kg for 
1 to 2 years old. 
- children below 1 year of age based on the dose of 2-3mg/kg as recommended by the CHMP in 
May 2009. 
In a teleconference held on 16 July 2009, Roche proposed: 
- to use 2 different capsule strengths, 75 mg and 30 mg, but not 45 mg as the 45 mg capsule would 
equate to the 30 mg capsule in terms of size, opening difficulties, dosing volumes etc.   
-  to  conduct  this  study  in  2  Member  states,  one  English  speaking  country  and  one  non-English 
speaking country.   
The  protocol  of  this  mixing  and  dosing  study  should  be  submitted  to  the  CHMP  and the  EMEA  by  
27 July 2009 for a quick assessment. 
Within this upcoming type II  variation to be submitted on the 1st September 2009, the MAH should 
also  amend  the  Product  Information  in  line  with  the results  of  this  mixing  and dosing  study  to  give 
clear guidance on the way to prepare an oral formulation from the capsules and to dose appropriately 
for children. 
Page 4 of 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Conclusions and Benefit / Risk Assessment  
Further  to  discussions  during  its  plenary  meeting  held  in  July  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  that  the 
proposal from the MAH could be accepted at this stage. However the MAH should commit to submit a 
type  II  variation  on  the  1st  September  2009  to  update  Tamiflu  Product  Information  in  line  with  the 
analysis of the available PK data including dose recommendations for children less than 6 months of 
age and to include all available data and to propose a wording for the use of Tamiflu in post-exposure 
prophylaxis in children. 
The CHMP concluded that overall data suggest that the benefit of using Tamiflu for the treatment of 
children between 6 and 12 months of age outweighs the risk in the context of a pandemic influenza. 
The  CHMP  decided  that  Tamiflu  Product  Information  should  therefore  be  updated  to  include 
recommendations  of  dose  to  treat  children  between  6  and  12  months  of  age  in  the  context  of  a 
pandemic influenza. 
- Changes to the Product Information 
When discussing the Product Information of Tamiflu oral suspension, the following comments were 
made: 
-  Tamiflu  oral  suspension  is  prepared  by  adding  52  ml  of  water  to  the  powder  for  oral 
suspension.  The  recommended  dosing  for  children  aged  6-12  months  is  based  on  a 
concentration  of  10  mg/ml  and  the  dose  is  administered  in  millilitres  with  a  3  ml  graduated 
syringe.  However,  the  recommended  dose  for  older  children  above  15  kg  and  adults  is 
administered with a syringe graduated for dose in milligrams. To avoid confusion, the dosing 
should  be revised  to be  based  on  millilitres, irrespective  of  the  patient  age,  and  only  syringes 
graduated for volume should be used. As a concentration of 10 mg/ml is used for the calculation 
of the dose it can be assumed that the true concentration of the drug product is 10 mg/ml.  
-  The  concentration  of  the  oral  suspension  is  12  mg/ml  while  the  calculation  and  dosing  are 
based on a 10 g/ml concentration, which will be very confusing for the user. The MAH should 
give the true concentration and ensure that the table "Dosing Scheme of Tamiflu Preparation as 
a Function of the Patient's" in the SPC is correct. 
- The table "Dosing Scheme of Tamiflu Preparation as a Function of the Patient's" in section 
4.2 of Tamiflu oral suspension SPC stops at 10 kg for children below 1 year of age with 30 mg 
per. The MAH should consider that some less than 1 year children may be heavier than 10 kg. 
The table should be completed accordingly. 
The  MAH  should  take  into  account  these  above-mentioned  comments  when  amending  the  Product 
Information for the oral suspension through the type II variation to be submitted in September 2009. 
The  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.4,  4.8,  and  5.2  of  the  SPC,  and  the  sections  3  and  4  of  the  PL  have  been 
updated for 30, 45 and 75 mg capsules and for the oral suspension to add dose recommendations for 
treatment of children aged between 6 and 12 months in the context of a pandemic influenza.  
Conclusion 
On  23  July  2009  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Labelling  and  Package 
Leaflet. 
Page 5 of 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
