Summary of risk management plan for Tandemact 
(Pioglitazone/glimepiride FDC) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Tandemact. The RMP details important risks 
of Tandemact, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Tandemact's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Tandemact's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Tandemact should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Tandemact should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Tandemact's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Tandemact is authorised for second-line treatment of adult patients with type II diabetes mellitus who 
show intolerance to metformin or for whom metformin is contraindicated and who are already treated 
with a combination of pioglitazone and glimepiride (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
pioglitazone and glimepiride as the active substances and it is given by mouth as a tablet. 
Further information about the evaluation of Tandemact’s benefits can be found in Tandemact’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/tandemact   
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Tandemact, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Tandemact's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Tandemact is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Tandemact are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of 
a link with the use of Tandemact. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of 
this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Pioglitazone 
None 
Glimepiride 
Blood dyscrasias 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Blood dyscrasias 
Evidence for linking the risk 
There have been reports of low blood cell counts (red blood 
to the medicine 
cells, white blood cells and platelets, or sometimes all 3 
types at the same time) in patients taking glimepiride. 
Although rare, they can be life threatening. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Elderly patients appear overrepresented. 
A particular risk group for hemolytic anemia appears to be 
G6PD deficient patients, this is considered a class effect. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC 4.4 and PL sections 2 and 4 providing special 
warning on the possible risk of blood dyscrasias and 
advising that treatment with Tandemact requires regular 
haematological monitoring; cautioning use in patients with 
G6PD-deficiceny and to consider treatment with non-
sulfonylurea alternative. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Tandemact. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Tandemact. 
 
 
 
