21 July 2022 
EMA/173328/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): erlotinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001255/202111 
Period covered by the PSUR: 18 Novemer 2019 to 17 November 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for erlotinib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows: 
Overall, based on the totality  of the data presented in the  current PSURs for erlotinib from the reporting 
interval and cumulative experience, no new risks or safety concerns with a significant  impact on the 
already established safety and efficacy profile of erlotinib  were identified. Consequently, the PRAC 
considers that  the benefit-risk balance of erlotinib  for the treatment  of NSCLC and PC remains 
unchanged.  
However, the  PRAC considers that based on the data presented and the cases for which causality with 
erlotinib was deemed as a reasonable possibility, the events of hepatitis,  acute hepatitis and pneumatosis 
intestinalis  should be reflected in  the product information. More specifically, the PRAC concluded as 
follows: 
• 
• 
In view of available data on hepatotoxicity from clinical trial(s), the literature, spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge 
and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between 
erlotinib and hepatitis, acute hepatitis is at least a reasonable possibility.  
In view of available data on pneumatosis intestinalis  from clinical trials,  the literature, 
spontaneous reports including in  some cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-
challenge and/or re-challenge and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers 
a causal relationship between erlotinib and pneumatosis intestinalis  is at least a reasonable 
possibility.  
The PRAC concluded that  the product information of products containing erlotinib should be amended 
accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with  the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation  to the  terms of the marketing  authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the  scientific conclusions for erlotinib the CHMP  is of the opinion that  the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing erlotinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that  the terms of the  marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/173328/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
