13 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/349608/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Tarceva 
Erlotinib 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/618/PSU/020 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the 
terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Tarceva, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
Based on the PRAC review of data on safety and efficacy, the PRAC considers by concensus that the risk-
benefit balance of medicinal products containing the active substance erlotinib remains favourable but 
recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied as follows: 
•  Section 4.4, skin disorders: Patients with bullous and exfoliative skin disorders should be tested 
for skin infection and treated according to local management guidelines. 
•  Section 4.5 Intercations: Due to the working mechanism, proteasome inhibitors including 
bortezomib may be expected to influence the effect of EGFR inhibitors including erlotinib. Such 
influence is supported by limited clinical data and preclinical studies showing EGFR degradation 
through the proteasome. 
•  Section 4.4, interstitial lung disease: A higher incidence of ILD (approximately 5 % with a 
mortality rate of 1.5%) is seen among patients with Japanese origin. 
•  Section 4.8, table 3: ILD should be placed under common in the table with an additional note 
stating that the higher incidence is mainly seen in patients of Japanese origin. 
•  Section 4.4: Nephrotoxicity: “There have been rare reports of hypokalaemia and renal failure 
(including fatalities). Some cases were secondary to severe dehydration due to diarrhoea, 
vomiting and/or anorexia while others were confounded by concomitant chemotherapy. In more 
severe or persistent cases of diarrhoea, or cases leading to dehydration, particularly in groups of 
patients with aggravating risk factors (especially concomitant chemotherapy and medications, 
symptoms or diseases or other predisposing conditions including advanced age), Tarceva 
therapy should be interrupted and appropriate measures should be taken to intensively 
rehydrate the patients intravenously. In addition, renal function and serum electrolytes including 
potassium should be monitored in patients at risk of dehydration”. 
The amendments recommended to be introduced to the product information to the marketing 
authorisation are included in Annex 1. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Tarceva the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance erlotinib is favourable subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
