EMA/841615/2018  
EMEA/H/C/000618 
Tarceva (erlotinib) 
An overview of Tarceva and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Tarceva and what is it used for? 
Tarceva is a cancer medicine used in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that is advanced (the cancer 
has started to spread) or metastatic (it has already spread to other parts of the body). It is used for: 
 
previously untreated patients whose cancer cells have certain changes (‘activating mutations’) in 
the gene for a protein called epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR); 
 
patients with EGFR activating mutations whose disease is stable after initial chemotherapy. Stable 
means that the cancer has neither improved nor worsened with chemotherapy (medicines to treat 
cancer);  
 
 
patients with EGFR activating mutations in whom previous chemotherapy has not worked; 
patients without EGFR activating mutations in whom previous chemotherapy has not worked and 
other treatments are unsuitable. 
Tarceva is also used in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer, in combination with gemcitabine 
(another cancer medicine). 
The medicine contains the active substance erlotinib. 
How is Tarceva used? 
Tarceva can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor who 
has experience in the use of cancer medicines. Patients with NSCLC should be tested for EGFR 
activating mutation before starting Tarceva, unless previous chemotherapy has not worked and other 
treatments are not suitable.  
The medicine is available as tablets (25, 100 and 150 mg). For NSCLC, the usual dose is 150 mg daily. 
For pancreatic cancer, it is 100 mg daily. Tarceva is taken at least one hour before or two hours after 
food. If needed (for example because of side effects), the dose may be reduced in 50-mg steps. As 
Tarceva seems more effective in patients with pancreatic cancer who develop a rash, treatment should 
be re-assessed after 4 to 8 weeks if no rash has developed. Patients taking Tarceva should stop 
smoking, as smoking can decrease the amount of the medicine in the blood. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
For more information about using Tarceva, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Tarceva work? 
The active substance in Tarceva, erlotinib, belongs to the group ‘EGFR inhibitors’. Erlotinib blocks 
EGFRs, which can be found on some tumour cells. As a result of this block, the tumour cells can no 
longer receive the messages needed for growing and for spreading (metastasis). As a result, Tarceva 
helps to stop the cancer from growing and spreading through the body. 
What benefits of Tarceva have been shown in studies? 
NSCLC 
In NSCLC, Tarceva has been mainly studied in four studies. 
 
The first study compared Tarceva with chemotherapy in 173 patients with advanced NSCLC with 
activating EGFR mutations who had not received previous chemotherapy. Patients taking Tarceva 
lived for an average of 10.4 months without their disease getting worse compared with 5.1 months 
for those receiving chemotherapy medicines. 
 
The second study compared Tarceva with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 889 patients with 
advanced or metastatic NSCLC whose disease had not got worse after 4 cycles of treatment with 
platinum-containing chemotherapy. Overall, Tarceva marginally increased how long patients lived 
without their disease getting worse and how long they survived. The greatest benefit was in a 
subgroup of 49 patients with EGFR activating mutations: those taking Tarceva (22 patients) lived 
for an average of 44.6 weeks without their disease getting worse, compared with 13 weeks for 
those taking placebo (27 patients). 
  A third study compared Tarceva with placebo in 643 patients with advanced NSCLC whose cancer 
cells did not have EGFR activating mutations and whose disease was stable after 4 cycles of 
treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy. The study compared how long patients 
survived when Tarceva was used early in the study with how long they survived when Tarceva was 
used later in the study. The study found no advantage to early use of the medicine, as patients 
treated with Tarceva early in the study did not live longer than those treated with Tarceva later in 
the study (after the disease had progressed). 
 
The fourth study compared Tarceva with placebo in 731 patients in whom at least one previous 
chemotherapy treatment had not worked. Patients taking Tarceva survived for an average of 6.7 
months, compared with 4.7 months for the patients taking placebo. Among the patients who took 
Tarceva, the average survival was 8.6 months in those whose tumours were ‘EGFR IHC-positive’ 
(had EGFRs on the cell surface), and 5.0 months in those whose tumours were EGFR IHC-negative. 
Pancreatic cancer 
Tarceva in combination with gemcitabine was studied in 569 patients with pancreatic cancer that was 
advanced, unresectable (that cannot be removed by surgery) or metastatic. Patients with metastatic 
cancer taking Tarceva as initial therapy lived without their disease getting worse for an average of 5.9 
months, compared with 5.1 months in those taking placebo. However, there was no advantage for 
patients whose cancer had not spread beyond the pancreas. 
Tarceva (erlotinib)  
EMA/841615/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Tarceva? 
In studies, the most common side effects with Tarceva when used as monotherapy for lung cancer 
were rash (affecting 75% of patients), diarrhoea (54%), loss of appetite and tiredness (52% each). In 
the study of Tarceva used in combination with gemcitabine for pancreatic cancer, the most common 
side effects were tiredness (affecting 73% of patients), rash (69%) and diarrhoea (48%). For the full 
list of side effects and restrictions with Tarceva, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Tarceva authorised in the EU? 
Tarceva can prolong the time the patients live without their disease getting worse and prolong life in 
some patients. The side effects reported with Tarceva are considered manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Tarceva’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Tarceva? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Tarceva have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Tarceva are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Tarceva are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Tarceva 
Tarceva received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 September 2005. 
Further information on Tarceva can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Tarceva.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2018. 
Tarceva (erlotinib)  
EMA/841615/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
