SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Targretin 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Ligand Pharmaceuticals UK Limited 
Innovis House  
108 High Street  
Crawley 
West Sussex  
RH10 1BB  
United Kingdom 
Active substance: 
Bexarotene 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Bexarotene 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Other antineoplastic agents 
L01XX25 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Treatment of skin manifestations of advanced stage 
CTCL patients refractory to at least one systemic 
treatment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Targretin contains the new chemical entity bexarotene (INN), an anti-neoplastic retinoid. It is related 
to  the  other  retinoids.  It  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  skin  manifestations  of  advanced  stage 
cutaneous  T-cell  lymphoma  (CTCL)  patients  refractory  to  at  least  one  systemic  treatment.  The 
recommended initial dose is 300 mg/m2/day, to be taken as a single dose with a meal. 
The incidence of CTCL is approximately 1200 new patients annually in Europe with a prevalence of 
about  16,000.  The  term  CTCL  includes  mycosis  fungoides  and  Sézary  syndrome.  They  usually 
manifest in the skin as a  progressive disease, more  common in men, age range usually 45-65 years.  
Extra cutaneous sites are involved later in the course of the disease. Sézary syndrome is an aggressive 
systemic variant of mycosis fungoides where there are abnormal circulating lymphocytes. Sézary cells 
are  hyperchromatic  mononuclear  cells  in  the  peripheral  blood  containing  convoluted  or  ceribriform 
nuclei. 
Current systemic therapy for CTCL includes interferon α, retinoids and PUVA therapy, either alone or 
in combination, and different monochemotherapy regimens. Radiotherapy and electron beam therapy 
have been employed for localised lesions. Photophoresis with oral metoxypsoralen and extracorporal 
irradiation of leukocytes and polychemotherapy regimens have been given for Sezary syndrome. 
CTCL  patients  usually  survive  for  many  years  after  diagnosis,  but  there  is  a  risk  of  secondary 
cutaneous malignancies, such as squamous cell carcinoma, because of the altered immunology caused 
by  the  disease  or  its  treatment.  The  relative  risk  of  skin  cancers  or  melanoma  is  some  6-8  fold. 
Ulceration  of  CTCL  with  secondary  infection  is  common  and  about  half  of  the  patients  die  from 
infection. The risk of infection is higher with immunosuppressive treatment. 
Retinoids, such as etretinate and isotretinoin, have been used successfully to treat CTCL. They have 
been used both as sole agents and as part of combination therapy. 
Bexarotene  is  a  synthetic  compound  that  exerts  its  biological  action  through  selective  binding  and 
activation of the three retinoid X receptors (RXRs): RXRα, β, and γ. Once activated, these receptors 
function  as  transcription  factors  that  regulate  processes  such  as  cellular  differentiation  and 
proliferation, apoptosis, and insulin sensitisation. The ability of the RXRs to form heterodimers with 
various  receptor  partners  that  are  important  in  cellular  function  and  in  physiology  indicates  that  the 
biological activities of bexarotene are more diverse than those of compounds that activate the retinoic 
acid receptors (RARs). In vitro, bexarotene inhibits the growth of tumour cell lines of haematopoietic 
and squamous cell origin. In vivo, bexarotene causes tumour regression in some animal  models and 
prevents  tumour  induction  in  others.  However,  the  exact  mechanism  of  action  of  bexarotene  in  the 
treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) is unknown. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Targretin  capsules  are  presented  as  off-white  oblong  soft  gelatin  capsules,  imprinted  with  the  word 
“Targretin”  using  blue  ink  and  containing  a  suspension  of  75  mg  of  micronised  bexarotene  in 
Macrogol  400.  The  capsule  shell  is  made  from  gelatin,  which  is  of  animal  origin.  Gelatin  complies 
with the Note for guidance on minimising the risk of Transmitting animal Spongiform Encephelopathy 
Agent. 
Capsules  are  packaged  in  white  200-ml  high-density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  bottle  with  a  white 
polypropylene  child-resistant  cap,  and  a  tamper-evident  foil  inner-seal.  Bottles  are  packaged  in  an 
outer cardboard container. 
Active substance 
The  active  substance  bexarotene,  supplied  by  Raylo  Chemical  Inc.,  is  a  new  synthetic  compound 
representing a sub-class of retinoids, but it is structurally distinct from the vitamin A derived retinoids. 
Its  chemical  name  is  4-[1-(3,5,5,8,8-pentamethyl-5,6,7,8-  tetrahydro-2-naphtalenyl)vinyl]  benzene 
carboxylic acid. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
The  synthesis  of  bexarotene  has  evolved  through  two  routes,  which  are  not  basically  different.  The 
second (route B) was more economic and more robust than the earlier route A and the impurity profile 
has been improved. 
The first route (route A) was used for early pre-clinical studies and to produce the first lots for clinical 
trials. 
Route  B  is  the  intended  commercial  route  to  manufacture  the  drug  substance;  Route  B  material  has 
been used in the 6-month toxicology studies and for the majority of clinical studies. 
Raylo manufactures the active substance at two facilities sites (Argyll Rd. and Clover Bar). 
The  equipment  used  for  the  bexarotene  manufacturing  process  at  the  Argyll  Road  facility  and  the 
Clover Bar facility is equivalent and similar chemical and physical characteristics of drug substance 
issued  from  the  two  sites  have  been  shown.    The  drug  substance  is  prepared  using  synthetic 
transformations that are well precedented in the chemical literature. 
The specifications contain all appropriate tests for identity, potency, purity and stability of the active 
substance. Bexarotene is identified by two methods: IR spectroscopy and HPLC.  
The  specifications  for  residual  solvents  that  may  be  present  are  consistent  with  ICH  guidance  on 
residual solvents and therefore should not give rise to any toxicological problems. 
The assay and determination of related substances are done using an isocratic HPLC. 
Two identified impurities,  have been routinely detected in bexarotene at levels greater than 0.1%. A 
further impurity was difficult to detect and although this impurity was present at trace levels (<0.1%) 
in many of stability study samples, it was not usually detected or reported. A limit of 0.2% has been 
specified. 
The specifications for impurities are qualified by the 6-month rat toxicology study. 
Particle size limits are consistent with the data of all available micronised bexarotene batches.  
Batch  analysis  data  were  provided  on  seven  batches  (3  pilot  and  4  production-scale)  of  active 
substance  manufactured  by  route  B  and  used  in  safety  studies,  clinical  trials  and  stability  studies. 
These data confirm the consistency and uniformity of the synthesis. 
Stability  studies  of  three  representative  commercial  batches  of  micronised  bexarotene  have  been 
carried out according to ICH storage conditions. Data observed for up two years at 25°C / 60% RH 
and for 6 months at 40°C/75 %RH justifies a re-test period of two years. The product should be stored 
at a temperature not exceeding 30°C. 
Additional stability data performed at 5°C for 24 months and for 12 months at 30°C / 60%RH as well 
as photostability investigations confirmed the stability of bexarotene. 
Nevertheless, bexarotene should be protected from extreme heat and from excessive light exposure. 
Other ingredients 
The  excipients  of  the  bulk  suspension  (Macrogol  400,  polysorbate  20,  povidone  K-90,  butylated 
hydroxyanisole)  and  the  capsule  shell  (gelatin  and  titanium  dioxide)  comply  with  the  corresponding 
PhEur  monograph.  The  specifications  for  polysorbate  20  include  an  upper  limit  of  NMT  1  ppm  for 
ethylene oxide as additive specification to the PhEur. monograph. 
Although  the  specifications  of  excipients  relative  to  capsule  shell  (sorbitol  special  –glycerine  blend 
and blue ink Colorcon) are limited, they have been  found satisfactory. For the colorant FD&C  Blue 
N°2 aluminium lake (E132) used in the blue printing ink the compliance with the Directive78/25/EEC 
has been confirmed. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product development and finished product 
The final polyethylene glycol based formulation was selected after evaluation of protype formulations 
with  respect  to  hydrophilic-lypophilic  character  of  vehicle,  viscosity  of  suspension,  solubility  of 
bexarotene in vehicle and bexarotene particle size. 
A series of 10 small pilot scale batches (~25.000 capsules) were manufactured at R.P Scherer. Release 
data for these small batches showed consistent results for dissolution, content uniformity, BHT content 
and assay, with an RSD for content uniformity no greater than 2.0 %. 
Eight scale-up batches including the three registration batches were manufactured using the production 
scale  manufacturing  process.  Type  of  equipment  used,  main  steps  of  manufacturing  process  are 
reported. The differences with the pilot scale are minor. 
Release data showed similar satisfactory results to pilot scale batches. 
The proposed commercial composition of Targretin capsule is essentially similar to the formulations 
used in the clinical trials. 
The  manufacturing  process  involves  the  preparation  of  a  suspension  of  the  active  substance  in  the 
excipients, which is then encapsulated in soft gelatin.  
The manufacturing equipment is described (class and subclass). 
Appropriate in-process controls are in place. 
A  manufacturing  process  validation  report  is  submitted  for  three  consecutive  full  scale  production 
batches manufactured with the commercial process parameters specifications (mixer speeds and times) 
validated during the additional mixing studies. The results of the validation studies are satisfactory. 
Control  testing  of  the  finished  product  offers  a  full  guarantee  in  terms  of  safety,  efficacy  and 
reproducibility of the process. 
The  control  test  and  specifications  for  finished  product  are  adequately  drawn  up.  The  identity  is 
confirmed by IR-spectroscopy and high performance liquid chromatography. HPLC was also used for 
the assay and the detection of related substances.  
The dissolution test is performed in a two–tier dissolution testing approach, with 0.005% of pancreatin 
present in the medium. As there is no evidence to suggest that the dissolution method is discriminatory 
with  respect  to  particle  size  of  the  capsule  fill  suspension  (complete  dissolution  of  the  bexarotene 
occurs  in  less  than  ten  minutes  when  the  fill  suspension  is  added  to  the  dissolution  medium)  the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder has included a release test of the bexarotene particle size distribution 
in the drug product, to ensure that this attribute is controlled in the finished product. 
The limits for the bexarotene particle size distribution in the fill suspension are adequately justified.  
The impurity limits in the finished product specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
The  limits  for  the  microbial  contamination  are  based  on  the  requirements  of  the  USP,  but 
harmonisation  of  the  Ph.Eur.  with  the  USP  with  regard  to  microbiological  quality  has  been  realised 
with the acceptance of the step 4 document for ICH Q6a. 
Results  from  3  commercial  batches  with  printed  capsules  are  presented.  The  results  confirm 
satisfactory uniformity of the product at release and indicate reliable and consistent performance of the 
product in clinical use. 
Stability of the product 
The results from the stability studies indicate that the capsules exhibited satisfactory potency, purity 
and physical integrity. The physical appearance of the capsules and the dissolution data obtained show 
no change during storage. The results support the proposed shelf-life of 2 years, as defined in the SPC. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder has committed to provide stability data (both real and accelerated 
data) generated on the first three consecutive production batches of finished product (See section II.3,) 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In summary, the documentation of substances, materials, methods of production as well as the quality 
controls is sufficient to ensure a product of appropriate and consistent quality. Information has been 
provided  in  the  dossier  demonstrating  that  the  medicinal  product  is  made  in  compliance  with  the 
CPMP Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy 
agents via medicinal products. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies 
The activity of bexarotene has not been explored in models of CTCL, since no pre-clinical models 
exist. Therefore the exact mechanism of action of bexarotene in the treatment of cutaneous T-cell 
lymphoma (CTCL) is unknown. However, the following cell systems are known to respond to RAR-
active ligands:  
Promyelocytic leukaemia cell system 
In the HL-60 promyelocytic leukaemia cell system bexarotene induced markers consistent with the 
induction of apoptosis, DNA laddering and morphological changes. At RXR/RAR-activating 
concentrations bexarotene was able to inhibit the growth and induce differentiation of the cells and 
was also capable of inducing differentiation of leukaemia cells from patients, including those with 
acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL). When tested against the APL cell line NB4 (which harbours 
the same t (5:17) chromosomal translocation detected in the majority of APL patients) bexarotene at 
concentrations > 1 µM was able to induce cell cycle arrest in G1 and to induce the expression of the 
granulocyte diffentiation antigen CD11b on the cell surface. 
HBE Cells 
Bexarotene inhibited transcription factor AP-1 (AP-1) activity in cultured human bronchial epithelial 
(HBE) cells. Other agents known to inhibit AP-1 activity also inhibited the expression of the 
differentiation markers. Bexarotene has been demonstrated to have anti-AP-1 activity mediated via 
RXRα. This effect may account for its ability to inhibit cellular proliferation. 
Squamous cell carcinoma xenograft tumours in nude mice 
9-cis-RA  suppressed  the  differentiated  squamous  phenotype  with  the  increased  presence  of  basal 
tumour  cells;  bexarotene  caused  no  change  in  the  highly  differentiated  phenotype  of  the  tumour.  In 
addition, bexarotene inhibited the growth of two primary human HNSCC xenograft tumours grown in 
nude mice, but did not inhibit the growth of 1483 HNSCC xenograft tumours; bexarotene was not a 
potent antiproliferative agent in these cells. 
Prostate cancer cell line (LNCaP) 
Bexarotene  was  ineffective  at  inhibiting  the  growth  of  xenograft  tumours  derived  from  the  human 
prostate cancer cell line or the transplantable Dunning prostate tumour in the rat.  
Cultured AIDS-KS cells 
Bexarotene (10-8 – 10-6 M) inhibited cellular proliferation in culture in a dose-dependent manner and 
similar to ATRA and RAR ligand. These data suggested that bexarotene may have inhibitory activity 
for AIDS-related KS cells in vivo. 
Cultured breast cancer cells 
Growth of the human oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast carcinoma cell line, T47D, was inhibited 
in a concentration dependent manner by bexarotene. Bexarotene and TAM appeared to be synergistic 
in the inhibition of the growth of these cells. 
5 
In vivo studies 
Bexarotene inhibited the development of carcinogen-induced mammary carcinomas in the rat similar 
to tamoxifen (TAM). However, bexarotene did not induce significant changes in circulating levels of 
oestradiol, progesterone or prolactin. In addition, bexarotene and TAM appeared to be synergistic in 
this  model.  When  bexarotene  was  added  to  the  TAM  regimen  in  animals  with  TAM-resistant 
mammary carcinomas, 94% of tumours had an objective response.  
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
When  bexarotene  or  gemfibrozil  was  administered  to  rats,  bifunctional  enzyme  (BE)  and  acyl-CoA 
oxidase  RNAs  were  induced,  and  the  combination  of  bexarotene  and  gemfibrozil  led  to  greater 
induction. 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
Studies  investigating  cardiovascular  and  neuropharmacological  parameters  in  rats  were  performed. 
Bexarotene administered to rats at 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg/day did not significantly affect mean arterial 
blood  pressure  or  heart  rate.    Statistically  significant  changes  were  observed  in  two  clotting 
parameters, but were not biologically important.   
Hypertriglyceridaemia was seen after oral administration of bexarotene in a variety of animal models. 
Oral  administration  of  bexarotene  to  rats  increased  the  plasma  levels  of  ApoA-I  and  HDL  in  the 
circulation. Induction of ApoA-I occurred at the transcriptional level.  
The effects of bexarotene on plasma lipids were determined in male rabbits following 4 days of oral 
dosing  with  0,  1,  10,  or  100  mg/kg/day.    In  animals  receiving  100  mg/kg,  total  cholesterol  and 
triglycerides were increased approximately 3- and 10-fold, respectively, whereas HDL cholesterol was 
unchanged. 
Changes  in  clinical  biochemistry  included  increases  in  alkaline  phosphatase  (ALK),  serum  alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), and serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), sodium, and globulin and total 
bilirubin. 
A study was conducted in rats to determine the neuropharmacological effects produced of up to 100 
mg/kg/day bexarotene for four consecutive days. All rats exhibited normal social behaviour and body 
weight gain. There were no changes in body temperature. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single-dose studies 
Oral administration 
Plasma  bexarotene  concentration  data  from  pharmacokinetic  and  toxicity  studies  in  the  rat  and  dog 
demonstrated  that bexarotene  was  orally  bioavailable.  The  increase  in  plasma  AUC  values  appeared 
proportional  at  lower  doses  and  less  than  dose-proportional  at  higher  doses.  From  oil  formulations, 
nonmicronised bexarotene was 30-40% bioavailable in rats and 7.5% bioavailable in dogs. Maximum 
plasma bexarotene concentrations (Cmax) generally occurred a few hours post-dose (tmax =2 to 4 hr). 
Intravenous (i.v.) administration 
Following  i.v.  administration  of  bexarotene,  clearance  was  10  to  20  ml/min/kg  in  the  rat  and  2  to  4 
ml/min/kg  in  the  dog.  I.v.  kinetics  in  plasma  appeared  multiphasic  in  both  species.  The  t½  of 
bexarotene was 2 hr to 3 hr in rats and 3 hr to 6 hr in dogs. Bexarotene’s volume of distribution was 
close to 1 l/kg, consistent with minimal retention of bexarotene in the extravascular tissues. There was 
no overall sex difference in pharmacokinetics in either species. 
Repeat dose studies 
In  rats  repeat  dose  Cmax  and  AUC  values  increased  with  increasing  dose  but  were  less  than  dose 
proportional.  Plasma  bexarotene  concentrations  in  rats  were  almost  always  dose-dependently  lower 
6 
 
 
 
 
after repeat-dose administration than concentrations after a single dose. The extent of this reduction in 
concentrations generally did not increase beyond 28 days of dosing. The magnitude of the reduction 
tended to be greater in male rats than in female rats. 
In all of the toxicity studies conducted in dogs, systemic exposure to bexarotene was dose-dependent. 
There was dose-dependent reduction in exposure associated with repeated dosing. In a 28-day toxicity 
study  in  which  nonmicronised  bexarotene  was  administered  in  babassu  oil  at  10  to  200  mg/kg/day, 
Cmax and AUC(0-6) values were 2-fold and 4-fold lower respectively on day 28 compared to day 1 at 10 
mg/kg and 3-fold and 6-fold lower at 30 mg/kg. 
Absorption 
The  oral  bioavailability  of  bexarotene  was  formulation-dependent.  For  micronised  drug  in  rat  and 
nonmicronised  drug  in  dog,  suspensions  in  oil  tended  to  provide  greater  bioavailability  than 
suspensions  containing  PEG.  Bioavailability  of  nonmicronised  bexarotene  was  also  significantly 
greater  from  a  PEG-based  solution  formulation  than  that  from  oil-  or  PEG-based  suspension 
formulations in dogs. These data suggested that dissolution may be rate-limiting for drug absorption 
and  that  bexarotene  particle  size  reduction  could  enhance  bioavailability.    These  studies  established 
that micronised bexarotene was about six times more bioavailable than nonmicronised bexarotene and 
that different lots of micronised bexarotene exhibited similar pharmacokinetics.  An experimental lot 
of clinical capsules that developed pellicles in dissolution testing displayed pharmacokinetics similar 
to  one  that  did  not  form  pellicles.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  stated  that  data  from  these 
studies  aided  in  selection  of  the  clinical  dose  in  transitioning  from  nonmicronised  to  micronised 
bexarotene in phase I-II trials, and setting bexarotene particle size specifications for Targretin capsules 
intended for commercial use. 
Distribution 
A study in rats demonstrated that drug-related radioactivity distributed essentially throughout the body 
after an oral dose of radiolabelled bexarotene. At the 4-hr time point, radioactivity was present in all of 
the 26 tissues examined. Other than organs of the gastro-intestinal tract, tissue-to-plasma radioactivity 
ratios were greatest in liver, kidneys and adrenals over four timepoints examined (4, 8, 24 and 48 hrs). 
No substantial retention occurred in any tissue; less than 1% of the radioactivity remained in the rats at 
48 hrs. 
A study in athymic mice revealed that bexarotene was capable of penetrating into solid tumour. 
Protein binding studies 
Bexarotene was highly protein bound (>99.9%) at concentrations present in the rat and dog plasma in 
toxicity studies. 
Metabolism 
In  the  rat  and  dog  bexarotene  was  metabolised  primarily  by  P450-dependent  oxidation  and 
glucuronidation. Systemic exposure to these metabolites (6- or 7-hydroxy-bexarotene and 6- or 7- oxo-
bexarotene) was found to be less than that to parent compound after both single and multiple doses. 6-
Hydroxy-bexarotene was a major circulating metabolite of bexarotene and glucuronides were the most 
prevalent  bexarotene  metabolites  in  bile.  In  rats,  the  primary  biliary  glucuronide  was  the  acyl 
glucuronide  of  the  parent  compound.  In  dogs,  the  primary  biliary  glucuronide  was  the  acyl 
glucuronide of 6- or 7-hydroxy-bexarotene. Overall bexarotene metabolism was qualitatively similar 
between the rat and the dog. 
Excretion 
In  a  rat  oral-dose  tissue  distribution  study  using  100  mg/kg  radiolabelled  bexarotene,  >90%  of  the 
radioactivity was excreted in the faeces by 48 hours in both sexes. Presence of the majority of excreted 
bexarotene  in  the  faeces  after  an  i.v.  dose  provided  evidence  for  hepatobiliary  excretion  of  the 
compound.  The  metabolism  and  excretion  data  indicated  that  the  hepatobiliary  excretion  and 
subsequent  faecal  elimination  of  glucuronide  conjugates  (or  parent  compound  in  the  dog)  constitute 
the primary and almost exclusive means of bexarotene elimination in the rat and dog. 
7 
 
Enzyme induction 
A  rat  study  revealed  that  4  days  of  daily,  oral  bexarotene  treatment  (600  mg/m2)  significantly 
increased (by 91%) gross hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450. Levels of some specific cytochrome 
P450  isozymes  decreased  significantly  (90%  for  CYP1A2  and  41%  for  CYP2C11)  while  others 
increased significantly (CYP2B1/B2 by 28-fold, CYP3A by 8.2-fold and CYP4A by 71-fold). Rates of 
cytochrome  P450  and  glucuronyltransferase-mediated  bexarotene  metabolism  were  increased 
significantly  in  these  microsomal  preparations  (by  252%  and  77%,  respectively),  further  supporting 
metabolic induction by bexarotene as a potential mechanism contributing to the reduction of systemic 
exposure after repeated dosing. 
Other studies 
Pharmacokinetic  data  were  collected  during  two  repeated  dose  pharmacodynamic  studies  of 
bexarotene in rats. Systemic drug exposure was dose-dependent and lower than dose-proportional in 
both studies. 
Transferability across the placenta and distribution into milk 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity. Based on the comparison of animal and patient 
exposures  to  bexarotene,  a  margin  of  safety  for  human  teratogenicity  has  not  been  demonstrated. 
Bexarotene is contraindicated in pregnancy. 
It  is  not  known  whether  bexarotene  is  excreted  in  human  milk.    Bexarotene  should  not  be  used  in 
breast-feeding  mothers.  This  information  has  been  included  in  the  SPC  (See  section  4.6  Pregnancy 
and lactation). 
Systemic exposure in animals compared to patients 
Cmax and AUC increase proportionally to the dose in dog and in rat at the lower doses, and less than 
proportionally  at  higher  doses.  Plasma  concentrations  depend  on  dose,  formulation  and  duration  of 
treatment. Consequently, the exposure must be estimated by measured concentrations (AUC) 
Table 1: Systemic exposure in preclinical and clinical studies 
Species 
Formulation 
Dose 
AUC h.µM 
Rat n = 10/sex 
Dog n = 6/sex/Dose 
3 mg/kg 
D178 
M 
4.7 
F 
8.1 
Capsule 
1 mg/kg 
(NOEL) 
W26 
M+F 
4.2 
3 mg/kg 
W26 
M+F 
9.8 
Patients 
Capsule 
300 mg/m² 
Daily 
M+F 
11 
There does not appear to be a safety margin relative to human clinical exposure. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
In the rat the maximum feasible single dose of 1500 mg/kg nonmicronised bexarotene suspended in 
sesame oil induced no treatment-related toxicity. 
Administration to 2 dogs/sex/group at 0 or 720 mg/kg (maximum feasible dose in this species) elicited 
transient decreases in body weight and in serum cholesterol, LDL and HDL. There were no treatment-
related  findings  at  gross  pathology.  Pharmacokinetic  analyses  at  fixed  intervals  post-dose  revealed 
mean bexarotene Cmax and AUC values of up to 60,800 ng/ml and 565,000 ng.h/ml respectively. On a 
AUC basis the systemic exposure was 112 (males) to 148 (females) times higher than that in patients 
at the recommended initial human dose (AUC of 3797 ng.h/ml after 300 mg/m2/day multiple dose). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  (according  to  GLP)  consisted  of  oral  dose  studies  of  approximately  4 
week, 3 months and 6 months duration in the rat and dog (with 28 day recovery periods). 
The main adverse treatment related findings were: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Mortality related to serious coagulopathy in rats 
Hepatic toxicity in rats and dogs 
Cataracts in rats and dogs 
Adrenal gland hypertrophy in rats and dogs 
Testicular degeneration in dogs. 
Other adverse treatment related findings were: 
Adverse local tolerance effects in the rat 
- 
Effects on haematology parameters in rats and dogs 
- 
Effects on haematopoietic tissues in the dog 
- 
Mortality related to serious coagulopathy in rats 
In the repeat-dose rat studies, dose-related mortality due to haemorrhage and serious coagulopathy was 
associated with bexarotene administered at doses > 10 mg/kg/day in sesame oil suspension by gavage 
or  in  a  diet.    The  coagulopathy  was  associated  with  bexarotene-related  prolongation  of  prothrombin 
(PT) and Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT) (>30 seconds). Vitamin K supplementation 
reduced the coagulopathy.   
In  3-month  and  6-month  studies  in  rats  in  which  bexarotene  was  administered  by  gavage  in  a 
PEG/aqueous  suspension,  haemorrhage  due  to  serious  coagulopathy  was  not  observed,  despite 
findings of higher PT and APTT in male rats compared to controls. PT or APTT was not increased in 
females.  Deaths  in  these  studies  appeared  to  be  related  to  gavage  injury  as  the  major  precipitating 
event possibly related to hyperkeratosis induced in the oesaphagus (see below). 
In contrast to the rat, no deaths related to serious coagulopathy occurred in the dog studies. Therefore 
this finding appears to be related to the oral administration of sesame oil to rats.  
Liver toxicity in rats and dogs 
Reversible hepatomegaly occurred in rats and dogs following repeat dosing with bexarotene. In both 
species, the liver returned to a normal size by the end of a 28-day treatment-free recovery period. 
The increase in liver weight was associated with increases in the serum levels of the liver enzymes. In 
addition  hepatocellular  degeneration,  necrosis,  vacuolisation  and  pigment  deposition  were  present. 
The effects were reversible following the 28-day treatment-free recovery periods. In the 6-month rat 
study  with  a  3-month  interim  sacrifice  up  to  a  100%  increase  in  liver  weight  associated  with  liver 
hypertrophy was observed at 2 to 3 months. There was no liver hypertrophy at 6 months of treatment, 
suggesting an adaptation to the drug effects. 
In  the  3-month  dog  study,  no  liver  weight  increases  or  adverse  liver  histopathology  were  observed 
after 91 days of treatment with nonmicronised bexarotene doses up to 1.5 mg/kg/day. By contrast in 
the 6-month dog study there were significant increases in relative liver weights associated with liver 
hypertrophy  at  3  or  10  mg/kg/day  micronised  bexarotene.  After  a  4-week  recovery  period,  relative 
liver weights of treated dogs were comparable to controls; however, slight liver hypertrophy was still 
present in all dogs at the end of recovery.  No liver effects occurred at 1 mg/kg/day. 
In conclusion, the adverse treatment related effects on the liver observed in two species appeared to be 
mainly almost completely reversible upon cessation of treatment. 
Cataracts in rats and dogs 
In the 6-month studies in rats and dogs dose-related posterior subcapsular cataracts developed in both 
species. 
Cataracts in the rats were more severe and progressive than in dogs. In the 6-month rat study, prior to 
early  sacrifice  in  week  8  of  the  300  mg/kg/day  (top)  dose  group  there  was  a  51%  incidence  of 
cataracts. The cataracts increased in severity and incidence during the course of treatment at 3, 30 and 
100 mg/kg/day and were not reversible upon cessation of treatment. In dogs, cataracts affected only a 
limited  area  in  the  posterior  capsule,  were  bilateral,  and  appeared  non-progressive.  In  the  26-week 
9 
 
study,  cataract  formation  occurred  after  11  weeks  of  treatment  at  3  and  10  mg/kg/day  and  the 
incidence increased .at study termination.  
The  NOEL  for  cataracts  in  dogs  was  1  mg/kg/day  and  in  rats  was  <30  mg/kg/day.  Based  on  AUC 
systemic  exposure  for  doses  inducing  cataract  formation,  there  does  not  appear  to  be  a  margin  of 
safety relative to human clinical exposure. There was no evidence in either species that the cataracts 
were reversible upon cessation of treatment. The Marketing Authorisation Holder has not provided a 
mechanistic explanation for this finding, the aetiology of which is unexplained. Although this finding 
has not been reported in the clinical data, the seriousness and lack of reversibility make this finding a 
matter of concern.. 
Adrenal gland hypertrophy in rats and dogs 
Dose-related transient increases in adrenal weights were a common finding, but were reversible upon 
treatment cessation. This finding is probably not of clinical relevance. 
Testicular degeneration in dogs 
Testicular  tubular  degeneration,  reversible  after  treatment  cessation,  occurred  only  in  sexually 
immature dogs (< 5 months) that were treated for up to 3 months with > 0.1 mg/kg/day of bexarotene. 
Sexually  mature  (>8  months)  dogs  given  daily  doses  of  bexarotene  for  6  months  did  not  show  any 
testicular abnormalities even at higher doses (up to 10 mg/kg). This finding is probably not of clinical 
relevance. 
Adverse local tolerance effects in the rat 
Acanthosis  and hyperkeratosis  of  the  epithelium  in the  non-glandular  stomach  and  acanthosis  of  the 
skin occurred at > 30 mg/kg/day in the rat 6-month study. This finding was reversible upon cessation 
of treatment. 
Effects on haematology parameters in rats and dogs 
In the rat 6-month and the dog 26-week studies the haematocrit, haemoglobin and erythrocyte values 
were decreased and the platelet count increased. These findings were reversible. 
Effects on haematological tissue in the dog 
Hypercellularity of haematopoietic cells in sternal bone marrow occurred in 5/12 dogs at the top dose 
of 10 mg/kg/day. The study report did not state whether this finding was reversible. It does not seem to 
have occurred in other studies. 
Genotoxicity 
Bexarotene was not genotoxic in the standard genotoxicity test battery in vitro and in vivo. 
Carcinogenicity 
In view of the proposed therapeutic indication and intended patient population, carcinogenicity studies 
are not considered necessary.  
Reproduction toxicity 
Fertility studies have not been carried out. A possible impact on fertility can not be excluded. 
A  dose  range-finding  (conducted  at  up  to  65  mg/kg/day  p.o.)  and  a  definitive  study  (at  up  to  16 
mg/kg/day p.o.) were conducted to evaluate the potential for developmental toxicity of bexarotene in 
rats. These studies demonstrated that bexarotene, in common with the majority of retinoids, was both 
teratogenic and embryotoxic in oral-dose studies at systemic exposures achieved clinically in patients. 
The teratogenic effects  of retinoids are well documented therefore it was not considered necessary to 
conduct further studies. 
Bexarotene is contraindicated both in pregnancy and during lactation. Advice is given that women of 
child-bearing potential should employ adequate birth control measures (see section 4.6 Pregnancy and 
lactation). 
10 
Local tolerance 
In  support  of  the  parallel  clinical  development  of  bexarotene  gel  as  a  topical  product,  the  local 
tolerance of bexarotene was investigated. 
Dermal  toxicity  assessed  in  a  28  day  study  in  the  rat  at  gel  strengths  of  0.01%,  0.1%  or  1.0%  w/w 
revealed  time  and  dose-related  increased  incidence  and  severity  of  erythema  (slight  to  mild), 
epidermal scaling, scabbing and thickening, confined to the site of administration. 
Bexarotene  topical  gel  at  <  1.0%  w/w  did  not  appear  to  be  a  skin  sensitiser  in  the  guinea  pig. 
Treatment related reactions appeared to be dermal irritation, possibly associated with some component 
of the vehicle, based on the similarity of reaction in vehicle and test article formulations. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder states that bexarotene will not be manufactured in the E.U. The 
expected patient numbers in the E.U. is not anticipated to exceed 1200 patients/annum, therefore it is a 
low  volume  compound.  Its  therapeutic  use  is  not  considered  to  have  an  immediate  effect  on  the 
environment. 
Other toxicity studies 
High  concentrations  of  bexarotene  appear  to  have  a  weak  potential  to  be  phototoxic  and  photo-
irritating  as  determined  by  in  vitro  haemoglobin  oxidation  and  histidine  assays  respectively. 
Bexarotene  was  not  photocytotoxic  in  a  human  skin  model  of  normal  epidermal  keratinocytes.  A 
protein  photo-binding  assay  in  human  serum  albumin  showed  that  bexarotene  is  capable  of  photo-
induced binding and therefore may be a potential photoallergen. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Bexarotene is a new synthetic retinoid that binds selectively to three RXR receptors. The link between 
bexarotene-mediated RXR signalling and the effect in CTCL has not been precisely established. The 
retinoids, including RXR-selective ligands, can modulate T-cell biology, which can have relevance for 
a possible mechanism of action of bexarotene in CTCL.  
Bexarotene formulations used in preclinical studies have changed during development. Suspensions of 
nonmicronised bexarotene in sesame oil (rats) and babassu oil (dogs) were used in preliminary studies. 
These suspensions were replaced by suspensions in polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG) and nonmicronised 
bexarotene was replaced with micronised bexarotene, used in the pivotal 26-week dog and rat studies. 
Bexarotene was bioavailable following oral administration in both test species. Systemic exposure was 
decreased upon repeat dosing, which could be attributed to metabolic enzyme induction. 
Interaction studies were not performed, as reflected in the SPC. These studies will be performed as a 
post-marketing commitment.  
In repeated dose-toxicity studies conducted in rats and in dogs, the target organs of bexarotene were 
eyes  (cataractogenic  in  both  rats  and  dogs  with  no  signs  of  recovery  after  28  days),  liver  (weight 
increase,  hypertrophy,  biliary  stasis  in  dogs,  glycogen  deposition  in  rats,  slight  necrosis  in  both 
species),  adrenals  (weight  increase,  some  vacuolisation  of  cortical  cells)  and  haematological 
parameters (reduction in RBC count, increase in platelet count, prolongation of PT and APTT in rats). 
In  rats,  bexarotene  induced  hyperkeratosis  and  acanthosis  of  the  oesophagus  and  the  non-glandular 
stomach and follicular atrophy and acanthosis of the skin.  
Mortality was observed in both species. Hyperkeratosis of the oesophagus was probably the cause of 
gavage-related  injury  leading  to  an  increase  of  the  mortality  in  treated  rats;  however,  the  cause  of 
death was not clearly established in treated dogs. 
Bexarotene  was  cataractogenic  at  dosages  comparable  to  human  exposition.  The  Marketing 
Authorisation  Holder  partially  addressed  the  mechanism  of  cataract  formation  in  animal  studies. 
However,  the  relevance  of  animal  findings  to  the  human  situation  is  still  not  clear.  Moreover,  the 
clinical  follow-up  of  patients  was  not  long  enough  to  exclude  a  cataractogenic  effect  of  bexarotene 
treatment. This effect will be closely monitored by the Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
Bexarotene  is  teratogenic  and  embryotoxic  at  dosages  comparable  to  human  exposure.  Fertility  and 
peri-  and  post-natal  effects  of  bexarotene  were  not  evaluated.  The  use  of  bexarotene  has  to  be 
contraindicated during pregnancy. Adequate birth-control measures have to be employed by women of 
childbearing potential. 
11 
 
Bexarotene is not mutagenic. Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical trials were performed according to GCP standards and agreed ethical principles. 
Clinical pharmacology 
A total of three dose-ranging phase I-II involving 141 cancer patients were conducted. See Table 2.  
Table 2: Dose-ranging studies 
Protocol 
no.  
L1069-
93-01 
Design/Phase  N 
Tumour 
52 
Advanced cancer 
Phase I, open, 
dose-
escalation 
Duration of 
treatment 
>4 weeks 
L1069-
93-02 
Phase I-IIa, 
open, dose-
escalation 
60 
Advanced cancer 
4 weeks 
L1069-
94-02 
Phase I-II, open, 
dose-escalation 
29  Advanced head 
and neck 
squamous cell 
cancer 
>4 weeks 
Treatment 
QD :  
5, 20 and 40 mg/m2/day of 
non-micronised bexarotene, 
18, 50, 140, 300 and 400 
mg/m2/day of micronised 
bexarotene  
QD 
non-micronised bexarotene: 5, 
10, 20, 30, 45, 75 mg/m2/day 
micronised bexarotene : 5, 10, 
20, 30, 45, 75, 21, 50, 83, 140, 
230, 380, 500, 650, 800, 1000 
mg/m2/day 
QD : 10 mg/m2/day of non-
micronised bexarotene ; 
BID : 25, 50, 150, 200, 300 
mg/m2/day of micronised 
bexarotene 
There  were  a  further  11  studies  where  Targretin  capsules  were  given  to  approximately  500  patients 
with  a  range  of  diagnoses  from  advanced  solid  tumours,  psoriasis  and  diabetes  mellitus.  In  these 
studies the doses ranged from 5-1000 mg/m2/day. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Bexarotene  is  a  synthetic  compound  that  exerts  its  biological  action  through  selective  binding  and 
activation of the three retinoid X receptors (RXRs): RXRα, β, and γ. Once activated, these receptors 
function  as  transcription  factors  that  regulate  processes  such  as  cellular  differentiation  and 
proliferation, apoptosis, and insulin sensitisation. The ability of the RXRs to form heterodimers with 
various  receptor  partners  that  are  important  in  cellular  function  and  in  physiology  indicates  that  the 
biological activities of bexarotene are more diverse than those of compounds that activate the retinoic 
acid receptors (RARs). 
It is not known if the clinical response is supported only by the RXR activation effect. 
Pharmacokinetic data (plasma levels obtained after Targretin administration) and in vitro binding data 
suggested  that  a  continuous  activation  of  RXR  receptors  is  obtained  after  the  administration  of  the 
initial  dose  of  300  mg/m²/day.  Additionally  a  partial  activation  of  RAR  receptors  may  also  be 
obtained. 
The  plasma  concentrations  of  Targretin  observed  after  repeated  dose  administration  suggested  that 
activation of RXR receptors could be obtained at peak as well as at trough concentrations. 
RAR activation is unlikely to be obtained at trough concentrations. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose finding studies  
At least three patients at each dose level were evaluated.  If, after two weeks of treatment, no dose-
limiting  toxicity  (DLT)  was  observed  in  the  first  three  patients,  then  three  patients  could  be  entered 
into  the  next  higher  dose  level.  The  MTD  was  defined  as  the  highest  dose  level  that  resulted  in  no 
more than one patient experiencing a DLT among at least six patients who had completed at least four 
weeks of treatment. 
The  studies  began  with  the  non-micronised  formulation  of  bexarotene.  Because  of  a  change  in 
formulation, the micronised formulation of bexarotene was introduced at one-sixth the daily dose of 
the original non-micronised formulation. The micronised formulation of bexarotene was considered to 
have 6 to 8 times better oral bioavailability than the non-micronised formulation. 
There were 9 patients with CTCL enrolled in L1069-93-01 study. Two of 9 patients improved while 
on bexarotene, which provided an early indication of bexarotene in CTCL. These patients responded 
to low doses of Targretin capsules (5 mg/m2/day and 20 mg/m2/day of non-micronised formulation). 
Four other CTCL patients treated in the range of 10 to 65 mg/m2/day of non-micronised formulation 
and three patients treated in the range of 230 to 300 mg/m2/day of the micronised formulation did not 
respond. 
The  recommendation  regarding  BID  or  QD  dosing  could  not  be  made  based  on  small  number  of 
patients studied at each dosing schedule in L1069-94-02 study. 
The initial starting dose chosen was the MTD determined from study L1069-93-02 (650 mg/m2/day). 
The  low  dose  level  in  one  treatment  arm  in  L1069-23  study  (6,5  mg/m2/day)  was  selected  to 
approximate  the  dose  level  (adjusted  for  the  micronised  formulation)  at  which  responses  were 
observed in L1069-93-01 study. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Introduction 
The pharmacokinetics of bexarotene were evaluated during 6 clinical studies in patients with advanced 
cancers  (3  studies),  type  II  diabetes  mellitus  (1  study)  and  CTCL  (2  studies).  One  study  of  relative 
bioavailability of Targretin capsules 75 mg and a bexarotene suspension has also been performed in 12 
healthy volunteers: 
Most patients were males (2/3), with the median age of 60 years. Tested treatments were administered 
concomitantly with food intake after 8-hour diet. The patients were not to have received other drugs 
susceptible to alter renal or hepatic function. Pharmacokinetics were linear up to a dose of 650 mg/m2. 
Absorption 
Initial  data  from  patients  in  trial  L1069-93-01  and  L1069-93-02  showed  that  the  micronised 
formulation had significantly greater bioavailability than the non-micronised form (n=10) and only the 
micronised form was used for the rest of the trial. The initial half-life was 1.4 h with no accumulation 
with multiple daily doses. 
Over the dose range proposed in the SPC, the half-life was approximately 2 h and the Cmax and AUC 
increased  dose  proportionally.  Absorption  was  enhanced  by  about  40%  when  bexarotene  was  taken 
with a fat containing dietary supplement in diabetic patients. 
Bioavailability (Cmax and AUC) decrease of Targretin after repeated administration is observed only in 
animal models during preclinical studies and in patients with no CTCL, enrolled in phase I and phase 
II  studies.  This  decrease  of  Targretin  bioavailability  was  explained  by  the  existence  of  an  auto-
induction of Targretin metabolism. 
These  findings  suggested  that  auto-induction  may  alter  bioavailability  of  Targretin  in  patients  with 
CTCL and consequently its clinical effect after repeated dosing. Nevertheless, PK studies conducted in 
patients with CTCL at the recommended doses, shows no alteration of the bioavailability of Targretin 
in  this  patient  group,  suggesting  that  metabolic  capacity  of  patients  with  CTCL  is  not  altered  after 
reiterated dosing. 
Additionally, clinical experience shows that therapeutic response to bexarotene continued to occur at 
least up to 26,6 weeks after the initiation of the treatment. 
13 
 
A  decrease  of  plasma  concentrations  depending  of  the  duration  of  treatment  was  observed  in 
preclinical  studies  in  rat  and  dog.  These  observations  were  consistent  with  an  auto-induction  of 
bexarotene metabolism. 
In  humans,  there  was  no  decrease  of  plasma  concentrations  after  multiple  dosing  in  patients  with 
CTCL.  During  phase  I-II  studies  a  reduction  of  bexarotene  concentrations  was  observed  within  15 
days of dosing. For these patients no further decrease of plasma concentrations was observed after day 
15. 
The mechanism causing the lowering of plasma levels after multiple dosing was investigated in animal 
models (rat hepatic microsomes). An increase cytochrome P450 iso-enzyme was specifically observed 
with CYP3A4 after repeated administration of bexarotene. 
In conclusion, a potential of auto-induction of metabolism of Targretin exists. But, no consequences of 
this mechanism have been observed in patients with CTCL at the recommended doses. 
Protein binding 
In study RR-845-99-002 the binding of radio-labelled drug to plasma proteins was high at 99.8-99.9% 
and was independent of the bexarotene concentration over the range tested. 
Metabolism 
The predominant plasma metabolites are formed by oxidation at the C-6 and C-7 positions to form 6- 
and  7-hydroxy-bexarotene  and  bexarotene  acyl  glucuronide.  For  all  metabolites  the  C-6  isomer 
predominated  over  C-7  in  humans.  In  vitro  studies  suggest  that  cytochrome  P450 3A4  is  the  major 
cytochrome  P450  isozyme  responsible  for  formation  of  the  oxidative  metabolites.  Based  on  the  in 
vitro  binding  and  the  retinoid  receptor  activation  profile  of  the  metabolites,  and  on  the  relative 
amounts of individual metabolites in plasma, the metabolites have little impact on the pharmacological 
profile of retinoid receptor activation by bexarotene. 
Elimination 
There  was  no  detectable  difference  in  clearance  with  the  first  dose  or  multiple  doses  up  to  400 
mg/m2/day  in  study  L1069-93-01.  The  elimination  half-life  was  approximately  1-3  hours  when 
determined over a six-hour sampling interval. In some patients with 24-hour post sampling schedules 
the mean terminal elimination half-life was 7-9 hours. 
Neither bexarotene nor its metabolites are excreted in urine in any appreciable amounts. The estimated 
renal  clearance  of  bexarotene  is  less  than  1 ml/minute.  Faecal  excretion  was  not  measured,  but  it  is 
assumed that elimination of the drug and its metabolites are primarily hepatobiliary. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
No formal studies to assess kinetics in special patient populations have been performed  
Use in children and adolescents: Targretin should not be used in a paediatric population until further 
data become available.  
Use in the elderly: of the total number of patients with CTCL in clinical studies, 61% were 60 years or 
older,  while  30%  were  70 years  or  older.    No  overall  differences  in  safety  were  observed  between 
patients  70 years  or  older  and  younger  patients,  but  greater  sensitivity  of  some  older  individuals  to 
Targretin capsules cannot be ruled out.  The standard dose should be used in the elderly. 
Renal  insufficiency:  no  formal  studies  have  been  conducted  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency. 
Clinical pharmacokinetic data indicate that urinary elimination of bexarotene and its metabolites is a 
minor  excretory  pathway  for  bexarotene.  In  all  evaluated  patients,  the  estimated  renal  clearance  of 
bexarotene  was  less  than 1 ml/minute.   In  view  of  the  limited  data,  patients  with  renal  insufficiency 
should be monitored carefully while on Targretin capsule therapy. 
Hepatic  insufficiency:  no  formal  studies  have  been  conducted  in  patients  with  hepatic  insufficiency.  
Clinical and animal pharmacokinetic data suggest that bexarotene is eliminated through hepatobiliary 
mechanisms.    Although  there  was  no  evidence  for  altered  bexarotene  pharmacokinetics  in  patients 
with elevated serum bilirubin, SGPT/ALT, SGOT/AST, or alkaline phosphatase, patients with hepatic 
insufficiency  may  theoretically  have  altered  bexarotene  pharmacokinetics.  Therefore,  patients  with 
hepatic insufficiency should be monitored carefully while on Targretin capsule therapy. 
Sex and ethnic origin: No relationship in the kinetics between sex or ethnic origin was studied. 
14 
 
Interaction studies 
The  data  are  limited.  Therefore  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  has  agreed  to  perform  further 
interaction studies (see section II.3, Follow-up measures of the Marketing Authorisation Holder). 
Drug  interactions:  effects  of  other  substances  on  bexarotene:  No  formal  studies  to  evaluate  drug 
interactions  with  bexarotene  have  been  conducted.  On  the  basis  of  the  oxidative  metabolism  of 
bexarotene by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), co-administration with other CYP substrates such as 
ketoconazole,  itraconazole,  protease  inhibitors,  clarithromycin  and  erythromycin  may  theoretically 
lead  to  an  increase  in  plasma  bexarotene  concentrations.  Furthermore,  co-administration  with 
CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampicin, phenytoin, dexamethasone, or phenobarbital may theoretically 
cause a reduction in plasma bexarotene concentrations. 
A  population  analysis  of  plasma  bexarotene  concentrations  in  patients  with  CTCL  indicated  that 
concomitant administration of gemfibrozil resulted in substantial increases in plasma concentrations of 
bexarotene. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown.  
There are some retrospective data on kinetics from study L1069-23 for patients taking levothyroxine, 
atorvastatin  and  gemfibrozil.  Bexarotene  concentrations  were  not  affected  by  concomitant 
administration  of  atorvastatin  or  levothyroxine.  Concomitant  administration  of  gemfibrozil  with 
Targretin capsules is not recommended. 
Drug interactions: effects of bexarotene on other substances: There are indication that bexarotene may 
induce CYP3A4. Therefore, repeated administration of bexarotene may result in an auto-induction of 
its own metabolism and, particularly at dose levels greater than 300 mg/m2/day, may increase the rate 
of metabolism and reduce plasma concentrations of other substances metabolised by cytochrome P450 
3A4. For example bexarotene may reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptives.  
After the granting of the Authorisation of Targretin, the MAH submitted a variation application on the 
basis of the interim analysis report of clinical trial L1069-34. This is an open-label, multicenter Phase 
II  study  for  the  “Evaluation  of  Targretin  (bexarotene)  capsules  in  Patients  with  Advanced  Breast 
Cancer” to determine the activity of Targretin at two different dose levels in the treatment of women 
with  metastatic  breast  cancer.  Secondary  objectives 
included  determination  of  bexarotene 
pharmacokinetics in women with breast cancer and determination of plasma tamoxifen concentrations 
in  women  receiving  concomitant  Targretin  capsules  and  tamoxifen  therapy.  The  mechanism  of  the 
observed interaction between bexarotene and tamoxifen is unclear and the clinical significance of the 
diminution  of  tamoxifen  AUC  (35%)  is  not  established.  The  CPMP  considered  that  the  most 
appropriate way to include this information on a possible interaction would be to modify the statement 
under section 4.5 of the Summary of Product Characteristics: 
“Bexarotene  may  increase  the  rate  of  metabolism  and  reduce  plasma  concentrations  of  other 
substances metabolised by cytochrome P450 3A4, such as tamoxifen.” 
Laboratory test interactions: CA125 assay values in patients with ovarian cancer may be accentuated 
with Targretin capsule therapy. 
Food  interactions:  in  all  clinical  trials,  patients  were  instructed  to  take  Targretin  capsules  with  or 
immediately  following  a  meal.  In  one  clinical  study,  plasma  bexarotene  AUC  and  Cmax  values  were 
substantially higher following the administration of a fat-containing meal versus those following the 
administration  of  a  glucose  solution.  Because  safety  and  efficacy  data  from  clinical  trials  are  based 
upon administration with food, it is recommended that Targretin capsules be administered with food. 
On the basis of the oxidative metabolism of bexarotene by cytochrome P450 3A4, grapefruit juice may 
theoretically lead to an increase in plasma bexarotene concentrations. 
Bioequivalence studies 
One  study  of  relative  bioavailability  of  Targretin  capsules  75  mg  and  a  bexarotene  suspension  has 
been  performed  in  12  healthy  volunteers.  As  usual  after  an  oral  administration  of  a  retinoid  great 
interpatient variations were observed both in Cmax and AUC levels. The results were as follows: 
Table  3:  Bioavailability  of  capsule  relative  to  suspension.  This  was  a  randomised,  open,  2-period, 
cross over study in 12 healthy volunteers. Dose was 75 mg. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suspension (reference) 
Capsule 
tmax 
h 
1.5 
2.8 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
AUC 0-7 
h.ng/ml 
AUC 0-∞ 
h.ng/ml 
99 
77 
355 
313 
368 
332 
t½ 
h 
1.9 
2.2 
90 % confidence interval 
- 
60-106 % 
- 
75-127 % 
- 
Clinical Efficacy 
A total of 16 clinical studies were performed: 
- 
- 
2 pivotal phase II-III studies in patients with CTCL  
14  uncontrolled  open  studies  in  patients  with  non-CTCL  cancers  or  benign  diseases.  3 
dose-ranging studies have already been discussed in the clinical pharmacology section and 
are not included in the table below. 
16 
 
Table 4: overview of clinical studies 
Protocol 
number 
Designs, blinding 
assignment, 
indication 
N  
Intended 
duration 
Initially assigned 
dose range in 
mg/m2/day 
(Formulation) 
Dose frequency 
Range of duration 
of treatment 
(days) 
PIVOTAL STUDIES 
L-1069-23  Phase II-III, open-
label, untreated 
refractory CTCL  
L-1069-24  Phase II-III, open-
86 
107 
label, untreated 
refractory CTCL 
16 weeks with 
option to 
continue 
16 weeks with 
option to 
continue 
6,5 
650 
650 
N/A 
N/A 
MONOTHERAPY NON-CTCL ONCOLOGY STUDIES 
4 weeks with 
L1069-20 
option to 
continue 
Phase II-III, double-
blind, placebo-
controlled, non-small 
cell lung cancer 
Phase II, open-label, 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
L1069-21 
300-600 QD 
1-431 
16 weeks with 
option to 
continue 
4 weeks with 
option to 
continue 
12 weeks 
650 QD 
1-548 
300–600 QD 
1-165 
600 QD 
20-85 
7 days 
200 QD 
7-9 
8 weeks with 
option to 
continue 
8 weeks with 
option to 
continue 
450 QD 
27-130 
150 QD 
1-126 
L1069-22 
Phase II, open-label, 
prostate cancer 
L1069-26 
L1069-28 
L1069-32 
Phase II, open-label, 
asymptomatic ovarian 
cancer  
Phase II dose 
escalation, feasibility, 
open-label, 
pre-surgery head and 
neck cancer 
Phase II, open-label, 
malignant melanoma 
L1069-33 
Phase II, open-label, 
liposarcoma 
COMBINATION THERAPY NON-CTCL ONCOLOGY STUDIES 
L1069-17  Phase II combination 
16 weeks 
200-600 QD 
1-484 
L1069-18 
therapy with 
INTRON A, open-
label, advanced renal 
cell carcinoma 
Phase I-II dose 
escalation in 
combination with 
vinorelbine and 
cisplatin, open-label, 
advanced non-small-
cell lung cancer 
4 weeks 
150-600 QD 
7-239 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OTHER NON-CTCL STUDIES 
L1069-29  Phase II, open-label, 
dose ranging, plaque 
psoriasis. 
Phase II open-label, 
monotherapy, non-
insulin dependent 
diabetes 
NM = non-micronised 
L1069-
DM-01 
12 weeks 
1-2 mg/kg/day QD 
5-131 
12 weeks. 
20 mg BID 
75-300 mg/day QD 
22-43 
2-273 
Dose-ranging  efficacy  studies  were  not  performed.  The  dose  regimen  for  phase  II-III  studies  was 
determined  with  regard  to  the  results  of  the  3  open-label,  dose  escalation  studies  (L1069-93-01, 
L1069-93-02  and  L1069-94-02)  in  patients  with  various  types  of  advanced  cancers.  See  the 
pharmacodynamics section. 
Main studies 
The 2 pivotal phase II-III studies, L1069-23 and L1069-24, aimed to be historically controlled studies 
by a comparison to the natural evolution of patients with untreated refractory CTCL. The studies have 
followed International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) for the ethical conduct of clinical trials.  
The  principal  objectives  of  both  studies  were  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  antitumour  efficacy  of 
bexarotene in patients with  refractory  or persistent  early stage CTCL and in patients with refractory 
advanced  stage  CTCL.  Study  L1069-23  aimed  to  evaluate  two  different  daily  doses  of  Targretin 
capsules in patients with refractory or persistent early stage CTCL, but was not powered to compare 
the two response rates. 
General description 
In  L1069-23  study  patients  were  to  be  randomised  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  low  dose  (6,5  mg/m2/day)  or  to 
high  dose  (650  mg/m2/day)  bexarotene.  In  L1069-24  study  all  patients  were  initially  treated  by 
bexarotene  650  mg/m2/day.  Because  of  a  high  number  of  dose-limiting  toxicities,  the  starting  dose 
level was successively reduced in both studies by protocol amendments from 650 mg/m2/day to 500 
mg/m2/day and finally to 300 mg/m2/day.  
In addition, as patients on low dose bexarotene (6.5 mg/m2/day) appeared to progress more frequently 
than those on the higher dose group, the study protocol L1069-23 was amended to stop the inclusions 
in the low dose group and to include all patients in 300 mg/m2/day dose group. By the decision of the 
FDA,  the  randomisation  between  the  two  dose  groups  and  the  6,5  mg/m2/day  dose  group  were  re-
introduced several months later.  
The  planned  treatment  duration  was  at  least  16  weeks.  The  initial  daily  dose  could  have  been 
decreased  to  200  mg/m2/day  and  than  to  100  mg/m2/day  or  temporarily  interrupted  (for  less  than  4 
weeks) in case of toxicity. In case of no response after at least 8 weeks of therapy, the dose could have 
been  increased  to  400  mg/m2/day  or  more  if  well  tolerated.  Patients  with  the  initial  dose  of  6,5 
mg/m2/day could have their dose increased to 300 mg/m2/day in case of no response after at  least 8 
weeks of therapy. 
Inclusion and exclusion criteria  
Patients were to have met the following: 
• 
• 
a  clinical  diagnosis  of  CTCL  (stage  I  to  IIA  in  L1069-23  study,  stage  IIB  to  IVB  in  L1069-24 
study) confirmed by a biopsy within 30 days prior to entry 
refractory to, or intolerant to, or have reached a response plateau for at least 6 months on at least 
two  prior  therapies  in  study  L1069-23  (PUVA,  UVB,  electron-beam  therapy,  photophereses, 
topical  nitrogen  mustard,  BCNU,  interferon,  systemic  cytotoxic  chemotherapy).  At  least  one  of 
qualifying prior treatments must have been topical nitrogen mustard, BCNU or PUVA, UVB, or 
electron-beam therapy. Previous topical steroids and systemic retinoids did not qualify. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
refractory to at least one systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy in study L1069-24. 
• 
•  Refractory CTCL: resistance to therapy due to lack of response of at least 50% improvement or 
• 
progression on therapy after initial response.  
Intolerant CTCL: discontinuation of therapy due to side effects/toxicity, whether or not a response 
occurred. 
systemic therapy of CTCL indicated 
•  no antipruritic therapy or no change before and during the trial 
• 
•  no  topical  CTCL  treatment  within  2  weeks,  no  PUVA  or  UVB  within  3  weeks,  no  EBT, 
photopheresis,  systemic  anticancer  therapy  or  oral  retinoid  therapy  for  any  indication  within  4 
weeks prior to study entry.  
• 
a Karnofsky performance score >60 and acceptable organ function (notably normal lipid levels) 
•  negative  HCG  test  and  effective  means  of  contraception  in  female  patients  of  child-bearing 
potential 
The patients were followed up at week 2, week 4 and every 4 weeks during the treatment.  
The patients were withdrawn from the study in case of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or 
other  medically  important  event.  The  use  of  topical  corticosteroids  as  a  qualifying  prior  therapy 
meeting  eligibility  criteria  was  excluded  in  study  L1069-23  for  the  purpose  of  assuring  a  more 
refractory  population  of  patients  for  these  studies.  Topical  steroids  are  commonly  used  in  the  very 
early stages of CTCL, often during the stages of disease prior to a diagnosis of CTCL. Because of the 
high frequency of use, especially in the earliest stages of CTCL, if topical steroids were allowed as a 
qualifying  therapy  the  patient  population  would  not  have  been  as  heavily  treated  or  as  refractory. 
Additionally,  as  a  therapy  often  administered  prior  to  a  diagnosis  of  CTCL,  there  might  have  been 
some uncertainty about whether the topical steroid should be considered to have been administered for 
the treatment of CTCL or for some other, pre-CTCL diagnosed condition. 
Efficacy evaluation 
Primary  efficacy  endpoints  were  defined  as  the  tumour  response  to  treatment  (clinical  complete 
response [CCR] + partial response [PR]) determined by: 
Physician’s Global Assessment of Clinical Condition (PGA) and  
Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CA)  
A patient was considered a responder if he met response criteria for either the PGA or the CA, which 
designated  the  Primary  Endpoint  Classification  (PEC)  for  the  study.  The  highest  PEC  between  the 
PGA  and  CA  for  each  patient  was  used  for  response  calculation.  It  is  accepted  that  the  Primary 
Endpoint Classification (PEC) is not a standard approach to cancer therapy response rates. No attempt 
was made to blind Investigators performing clinical evaluations. However, the CA endpoint was based 
entirely  on  objective  assessments  of  disease  status.  The  CA  endpoint  was  based  on  the  five  clinical 
signs of up to five index lesions representative of the patient’s overall cutaneous disease. Precise serial 
measurements of all cutaneous lesions would not have been feasible. A total of 68% (103/152) of the 
patients enrolled had at least 20 (or considerably more) cutaneous CTCL lesions at baseline. The exact 
number of lesions was not recorded on the Case Report Form for these patients; precise and reliable 
tracking  of  multiple  clinical  signs  for  each  of  the  lesions  was  considered  unwieldy  and  impractical. 
The overall body surface area (BSA) involvement by CTCL is an independent and objective secondary 
efficacy endpoint. These data include all patients. 
Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) 
The Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) assessed the overall extent of improvement/worsening of 
the patient's overall disease compared to the condition at entry (at baseline), including both index and 
non-index  cutaneous  lesions,  clinically  abnormal  lymph  nodes,  and  all  other  CTCL  disease 
manifestations, if present. 
19 
 
 
 
Table 5: Grading of Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) of Clinical Condition 
Completely  
Almost 
Marked 
Grade 
0 
clear 
1 
clear 
2 
improvement 
3 
Improvement 
4 
Slight 
Improvement 
5 
6 
Moderate  
Description 
No evidence of disease; 100% improvement 
Very significant clearance (≥90% to <100%); only traces of 
disease remains 
Significant improvement (≥75% to <90%); some evidence 
of disease remains 
Intermediate between slight and marked improvement; 
(≥50% to <75%) 
Some improvement (≥25% to <50%); however, significant 
evidence of disease remains 
No change  Disease has not changed from baseline condition (± <25%) 
Worse 
Disease is worse than at baseline evaluation by ≥25% or 
more 
Response 
Clinical complete 
response (CCR) 
Partial response 
(PR) 
Stable disease (SD) 
Progressive disease 
(PD) 
In addition, Complete Response (CR) was defined by the PGA grade 0 and the absence of CTCL on 
cutaneous biopsy of a clinically cured lesion. 
An improvement or worsening in the PGA grade must have been confirmed by two consecutive 
observations over at least four weeks. The response to Targretin capsule treatment was classified as 
CR, CCR, PR, SD, or PD (if PD preceded in time a better response the patient would be classified as 
PD) 
Composite Assessment (CA) of Index Lesion Disease Severity 
Up to five index lesions per patient were assessed and graded at each visit according on a 0-to-8 point 
scale (0=no lesion, 8=very severe lesion) with regard to scaling, erythema, plaque elevation, 
hypo/hyper-pigmentation, and surface area. For scaling, erythema, and hypo/hyperpigmenation 
intermediate intervals 1, 3, 5 and 7 were added to serve as mid-points between the defined grades 0, 2, 
4, 6 and 8. The surface area in square centimetres (multiplication of 2 longest perpendicular diameters) 
was converted to a 0-to-18 scale (see Appendix) in order to be incorporated to CA grade. 
Summing all the grades for each index lesion generated a CA grade. CA grade at baseline was then 
divided by CA grades at each subsequent visit to determine the CA ratio. CA ratio <1.0 indicated 
improvement in disease and a ratio >1.0 indicated a worsening of disease.   
The definite CTCL response to treatment according to the CA endpoint  was calculated by the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Complete Response (CR): CA ratio=0, no skin lesions, no clinically abnormal lymph nodes or 
visceral tumours, and a cutaneous biopsy documenting absence of histology signs of CTCL 
from a cleared lesion  
Clinical Complete Response (CCR): CA ratio=0 and no skin lesions, no clinically abnormal 
lymph nodes or visceral tumours. 
Partial Response (PR): CA ratio≤0.5 and less than 25% increase in the number or aggregate area 
of clinically abnormal lymph nodes, cutaneous tumours or visceral disease and no new 
pathologically abnormal lymph nodes or new visceral disease in an area documented to be free 
of disease within 14 days of entry in the study 
Stable Disease (SD): If none of the previous response classifications accurately described the 
disease state, then the primary endpoint classification was SD. 
Progressive Disease (PD): CA ratio ≥1.25, and ≥25% increase in the number or aggregate area 
of clinically abnormal lymph nodes, cutaneous tumours, known pathologically abnormal lymph 
nodes or known visceral disease; or a new cutaneous tumour or new pathologically positive 
lymph node or new visceral disease in an area documented to be free of disease within 14 days 
of entry in the study 
Confirmation by at least two assessments separated by at least four study weeks was required for a 
partial or complete response classification. 
20 
 
 
 
 
The Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) gives a global assessment of the improvement/worsening 
of the patient’s overall disease compared to entry and can always be influenced by knowledge of the 
daily dose the patients received. The absence of placebo makes this primary endpoint extremely 
subjective. The composite Assessment (CA) of Index Lesion Disease Severity is a more objective 
measure of index lesion response to treatment. However, calculations of both CA grade and CA ratio 
were done by the Marketing Authorisation Holder. This signifies that the final response to treatment, 
according to the CA, was assessed by the Marketing Authorisation Holder and not by investigators.  
The investigators graded index lesions’ signs and symptoms, and assessed CTCL body surface area 
(BSA), lymph nodes and visceral involvement. 
Neither total number of skin lesions nor new lesions were assessed. The information concerning these 
2 points was approximately obtained by BSA of all lesions, (« patient’s palm = 1% of BSA ») and 
notion « >20 lesions or <20 lesions ». 
Secondary endpoints 
The most important secondary end-points were: 
- Time to response: a time interval from day 1 to the first confirmed response 
- Duration of disease control: a time interval from first observation when the patient met response 
criteria (CR, CCR or PR) to the time that the patient relapsed. Durability of response: day of relapse 
(or last data point available for documenting continuation of response) minus day of onset of response, 
plus one day. A patient was considered to relapse if he first responded to treatment (CCR or PR) and 
then met the relapse criteria of a 25% or more worsening from the new baseline established at the time 
of response confirmation. 
- Time to disease progression: a time interval from day 1 to PD 
- The response (CCR+PR) to treatment of cutaneous disease (all lesions) determined as a percentage 
involvement of total body surface area (BSA): patient’s palm = 1% of total BSA. BSA was determined 
for both patch and plaques lesions. 
Supportive data  
Index lesion photographs and drug concentration measurements at each visit. 
Laboratory evaluations  
Blood specimens were obtained at baseline and every 4 weeks for fasting triglycerides, fasting HDL, 
LDL and total cholesterol, liver function tests, thyroid hormones, serum amylase, creatine 
phosphokinase and blood coagulation parameters, complete blood count. The NCI common toxicity 
criteria were used to classify laboratory abnormalities. 
Slit-lamp eye examination every 12 weeks was added by protocol amendment. 
Statistical analysis 
The expected objective response of untreated, refractory CTCL was considered 0%. Five percent was 
used as the theoretical maximum response rate. The success was defined by a CCR+PR ∃20% 
confirmed by at least 2 assessments separated by 4 weeks (significance level=0,05, historic control 
response rate=0,05 and alternative (Targretin) response rate=0,20). Sample size calculations provided 
that at least 30 patients would be required in each dose group to yield a 95% confidence interval for 
the true response rate of 5% to 35%. The study L1069-23 in patients with early stage CTCL was not 
powered to compare the two response rates by inferential statistics. 
Study design of the study L1069-23 was changed twice: to one dose group with no randomisation and 
then again to two dose groups.  
The definition of “refractory” was prospectively defined before the beginning of the trials. Patient 
enrolment commenced under Version 2 of the protocols, which included this definition. A patient who 
never responded to a given therapy might be characterised as “primarily” refractory to that therapy; a 
patient who initially responded and then progressed on a given therapy, might be characterised as 
“secondarily” refractory to that therapy. 
For the total of 322 refractory prior therapies in both studies, 82% (264/322) were primarily refractory 
and only 18% (58/322) were secondarily refractory. A new, non-protocol-specified analysis included 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
only patients primarily refractory to at least one systemic CTCL therapy. Patients secondarily 
refractory, intolerant, or having had a response plateau to prior therapy were not analysed.  
These selection criteria were applied to 193 patients, included in both studies.  These criteria produced 
a subset of 117 patients, including 24 patients from the early stage study and 93 patients from the 
advanced stage study. 
Although the indication «refractory CTCL» represents a heterogeneous group of T-cell skin 
malignancies including classic Mycosis Fungoides and Sézary syndrome as the most common forms, 
this can be accepted.  
In the recent period aggressive CTCL forms have become better individualised, and it might be 
possible nowadays to exclude these patients from enrolment because they need different, frequently 
more aggressive treatment. However, this distinction was probably impossible when the studies were 
realised.  
In addition it might be impossible to enrol sufficient patients to power a study by individual sub-
classification variants of CTCL. The incidence of CTCL in Europe has been estimated to be about 
1,200 patients per year.  The scarcity of clinical subjects has obvious practical implications for the 
clinical development programme.  
Descriptions of techniques used  
Point and interval estimation was the primary method for analysis. Summary statistics were provided 
for continuous variables. Frequency distribution and percent were presented for discrete variables. 
For the purpose of analysis, patients have been grouped in three initial dose groups: 
6.5 mg/m2/day 
300 mg/m2/day 
>300 mg/m2/day 
Study populations 
In study L1069-23 the age of the patients ranged from 24-62 years, median 62, 82% were white and 
64% male. The majority, 59%, had stage IB disease with only one patient with stage IIB who had 20 
cutaneous tumours. The mean duration of the disease was over 13 years. Previous treatments included 
irradiation  97%,  systemic  therapy  59%,  topical  or  local  therapy  95%.  The  most  common  previous 
systemic therapy was interferon, 38%. 
In study L1069-24 patients were 18 years or older with a clinical diagnosis of stage IIB-IVB CTCL 
confirmed  by  a  lesion  biopsy  within  30  days  of  entry  and  no  central  nervous  systems  involvement. 
They were also to have been refractory to at least one systemic anticancer therapy for CTCL. 
Efficacy results 
Study L1069-23  
Table 6: PGA and CA Response Rate 
Response 
classification 
CCR+PR 
SD 
PD 
PGA  
Dose (mg/m²/day) 
6. 5  
N=15 
(%) 
1(6.7) 
6 (40) 
8 (53.3)  4 (14) 
300 
N=28 
(%) 
14 (50) 
10 (36) 
>300  
N=15 
(%) 
9(60) 
5(33.3) 
1 (6.7) 
22 
CA of index lesions 
Dose (mg/m²/day) 
6.5 
N=15 
(%) 
3 (20) 
11(73.3)  13 (46.4) 
1 (6.7) 
300 
N=28 
(%) 
10 (36) 
5 (17.6) 
>300 N=15 
(%) 
7 (46.7) 
 6 (40) 
2 (13.3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study L1069-24 
Ninety-four patients with advanced stage CTCL, refractory to at least one systemic therapy for CTCL 
were enrolled. For the purpose of analysis, patients were grouped in two dose groups:  
300 mg/m²/day (N=56)  
>300 mg/m²/day (N=38).  
The study was not statistically powered to test for a difference in response rate between an initial dose 
of 300 mg/m²/day and >300 mg/m²/day. 
The majority of patients included belonged to the stages IIB or III (skin involvement with tumours or 
erythroderma, no specific lymph node or visceral involvement). 
96% (90/94) of all enrolled patients were considered refractory to at least one prior systemic therapy 
for CTCL. The median number of therapies for the 300 mg/m²/day initial dose group was 3 (range 0-
6). One patient had no systemic therapy (protocol deviation). 
Table 7: Most commonly used prior systemic anti-CTCL therapy 
Prior therapies 
Interferon 
Methotrexate 
Combination 
chemotherapy 
Corticosteroids 
Photopheresis 
Isotretinoin 
300 mg/m²/day 
59% (33/56) 
38% (21/56) 
25% (14/56) 
25% (14/56) 
21% (12/56) 
8.9% (5/56) 
>300 mg/m²/day 
74% (28/38) 
26% (10/38) 
45% (17/38) 
21% (8/38) 
32% (12/38) 
34% (13/38) 
Primary Efficacy Endpoints 
Table 8: PGA and CA Response Rate 
Response 
classification 
PGA 
Dose (mg/m²/day) 
300 
N=56 
(%) 
27 (48.2) 
0 
19 (34) 
10 (18) 
>300  
N=38 
(%) 
20 (52.5) 
2 (5) 
14 (37) 
4 (10.5) 
CA of index lesions 
Dose (mg/m²/day) 
300  
N=56 
(%) 
15 (26.8) 
1 (2) 
21 (37.5) 
20 (35.7) 
>300  
N=38 
(%) 
18 (47.4) 
5 (13) 
9 (23.7) 
11 (28.9) 
CCR+PR 
CCR 
SD 
PD 
Based on the 95% confidence intervals, the response rates were not statistically different for the 300 
mg/m²/day and >300mg/m2/day groups for any parameter (PGA, CA, PEC). However, the study was 
not powered to test the difference between the two doses. 
Most  patients  treated  with  >300  mg/m²/day  had  serial  dose  reductions  or  temporary  interruptions  of 
treatment.  
Studies L1069-23 and L1069-24 
Data on lymph nodes 
Out  of  152  patients,  84  patients  were  on  300 mg/m2/day,  35%  (29/84)  had  at  least  one  clinically 
abnormal lymph node at baseline, 48% (14/29) responded, including 24% (7/29) of patients who had 
clinical complete resolution of all nodes present at baseline.   
Data on cutaneous tumours 
Out  of  152  patients,  84  patients  were  on  300 mg/m2/day,  19%  (16/84)  had  at  least  one  cutaneous 
tumour at baseline, 25% (4/16) of patients responded, including 6% (1/16) of patients who had clinical 
complete resolution out of all cutaneous tumours present at baseline. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
Data on visceral involvement: 
The clinical trial data regarding visceral involvement are too sparse to allow any conclusions about the 
possible efficacy of Targretin capsules regarding visceral disease. 
Efficacy response 
-  
37.7% stage IIB, 31.1% stage III, 24.6% stage IVA and 6.6% stage IVB 
Response rates 
Initially only the results for 152 patients were initially provided, as described above. Later on in the 
procedure the Marketing Authorisation Holder has analysed 193 patients included in both studies; 117 
patients refractory to at least 1 systemic treatment were analysed, 24 early stage and 93 advanced stage 
CTCL  patients.  Of  the  93  advanced  stage  patients  refractory  to  at  least  one  systemic  treatment,  61 
were  treated  at  the  recommended  posology  of  a  300  mg/m²/day  (32  patients  were  treated  at  doses 
higher than 300 mg/m²/day). The main characteristics of these patients are: 
-   Median age of 60 years 
-  
-   Median duration of CTCL of 8.9 years (range 0.7 to 31 years) 
-  
-  
-  
overall BSA involvement by CTCL of 28% 
74% of patients had at least 20 discrete cutaneous CTCL lesions 
56% had at least one clinically abnormal lymph node at baseline; for those patients, the median 
number of nodes was three (range 1 to 13) 
31% had at least one cutaneous tumour; for those patients, the median number of tumours was 
three (range one to 34) 
23% of patients had at least one pathologically positive lymph node 
3.3% (2 patients) had at least one site of visceral involvement  
-  
-  
-   Median number of prior systemic CTCL therapies was two (range one to six);  
-  
The most frequent prior systemic therapy used was interferon, used by 59% of patients; the next 
most common systemic therapies were methotrexate (43%), combination chemotherapy (33%), 
and photopheresis (26%). 
The  most  common  therapies  to  which  the  patients  were  refractory  were  interferon  (52%  of 
patients), methotrexate (33%), and photopheresis (20%) 
66% of patients had been unresponsive (refractory) to all prior systemic CTCL therapies  
The median time on study was 19.9 weeks (range 2.0 to 117.7 weeks). 
The most common, the last/most recent, and the mean dose levels were 300 mg/m²/day  
The most common primary reasons for withdrawal were progressive disease (51% of patients), 
followed by adverse event (13%), administrative (11%), and partial response (8%) 
Dose modifications: there was no reduction of dose in 54% of patients; 39% of patients required 
temporary suspension of treatment. 
-  
-  
-  
-  
- 
-  
The  overall  response  rates  (CCR  +  PR)  were  31%  (CA)  and  51%  (PGA).  The  clinical  complete 
response rates were 6.6% by CA, 3.3% for PGA. The projected median time to progression was 16.1 
weeks for CA. Responses were observed across all advanced stages of disease: stage IIB: 43% (10/23 
patients), stage III: 16% (3/19 patients), stage IVA : 33% (5/15 patients) and stage IVB : 1/4 patients. 
For the 30 patients in the SPC data set with at least one pre-existing clinically abnormal lymph node, 
30%  (9  patients)  had  at  least  50%  sustained  improvement  in  the  number  of  nodes  and/or  aggregate 
nodal area. Seven patients had at least transient complete resolution of all lymph nodes.  
For  the  14  patients  in  the  SPC  data  set  with  at  least  one  pre-existing  cutaneous  tumour,  21%  (3 
patients) had at least 50% sustained improvement in the number of tumours and/or aggregate volume 
of  tumours. One  patient  had  CCR,  one  patient  had  97%  reduction  in  aggregate  tumour  volume,  and 
one patient experienced a 69% reduction in tumour volume. 
Out of 24 early stage CTCL patients refractory to at least one systemic therapy, 9 were treated with the 
recommended posology; the response rate for these patients was 67% (6/9 patients). 
The responses were observed mostly in patients with stage IIB and IVA (cutaneous patches, plaques, 
and  tumours,  normal  or  abnormal  lymph  nodes  and  no  visceral  involvement).  The  most  frequently 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
given  daily  dose  was  300  mg/m2/day;  this  dose  should  be  adapted  according  to  its  safety  profile  in 
each patient.  
Secondary end-points 
The  secondary  end-points  time  to  relapse  and  time  to  progression  of  non-responders  are  difficult  to 
interpret  because  of  the  relatively  small  number  of  patients  per  CTCL  stage.  Only  the  median  BSA 
involvement  (patch  +  plaque)  by  CTCL  can  be  taken  into  account  for  the  efficacy  evaluation. 
Treatment with Targretin seems to decrease the BSA of CTCL skin lesions with approximately 10% 
(-9.5% to -16.3%). This response is evaluated in only 50% of patients treated.  
Duration of treatment at recommended posology 
Out of 193 patients treated, for 109 patients in the 300 mg/m2/day dose group, the median duration of 
treatment was 19.7 weeks (range 0.4 to 84.6 weeks) and for 53 patients in the >300 mg/m2/day dose it 
was 26.7 weeks (range 0.6 to 118 weeks).  
Response rates by TNM stage of disease 
Figure 1: Response rates for 300 mg/m2/day, 32 responding patients/109 patients enrolled 
  38%
(3/8)
 38%
(10/26)
 38%
(6/16)
 20%
(1/5)
14%
(3/22)
30%
(8/27)
 20%
(1/5)
e
t
a
R
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
R
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
IA
IB
IIA
IIB
III
IVA
IVB
TNM Clinical Stage
Clinical studies in special populations 
There  were  no  formal  studies  in  special  patient  populations.  Retrospective  data  are  available  from 
studies in patients with advanced cancer or non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. No relationship in 
the  kinetics  between  age  (adults  compared  to  the  elderly),  sex  or  ethnic  origin  were  studied.    No 
studies have been performed in children. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Choice of dose 
The  finally  recommended  dose  (300 mg/m2/day  or  516  mg/day)  was  empirically  decided,  by 
decreasing  the  initial  high  dose  due  to  toxicity.  This  dose  still  seems  too  high  compared  to  other 
known retinoids. It should be noted that daily dose for isotretinoin should not exceed 1 mg/kg/day and 
for  etretinate  75  mg/day.  The  average  daily  dose  in  the  two  studies  was  situated  around  200 
mg/m2/day. Moreover, no clinical data exist on one versus two daily doses in CTCL patients. 
However, the dose recommendation can be accepted, provided that this dose is adapted according to 
the  safety  profile  in  each  individual  patient  to  obtain  the  most  acceptable  benefit/risk  ratio.  This  is 
reflected in the SPC (see section 4.2 Posology and method of administration). 
25 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
No comparative study was provided. The two pivotal studies were open-label, phase II-III studies in 
patients  with  early  stage  CTCL,  and  in  patients  with  advanced  stage  CTCL.  Selected  population 
comprised refractory, resistant or intolerant patients, or patients progressing after initial response to 1 
or  2  previous  treatments.  Primary  efficacy  variable  was  tumour  response  to  treatment,  evaluated  by 
one subjective endpoint (Physicians Global Assessment of clinical condition, PGA) and by one more 
objective  endpoint  (Composite  Assessment  of  index  lesion  disease  severity,  CA).  On  the 
recommended posology (300 mg/m2/day), the objective response rate was 36% in early stage CTCL 
patients, and 27% in advanced stage CTCL patients.  Only the results for 152 patients were initially 
provided. 
Later on in the procedure the Marketing Authorisation Holder has analysed 193 patients included in 
both studies; 117 patients refractory to at least 1 systemic treatment were analysed, 24 early stage and 
93 advanced stage CTCL patients. The objective response rates in these patients (CA=34%) appears 
comparable to those observed in the initial submission.  
Comparison of response rates 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  has  compared  the  response  rates  of  advanced  stage  patients  to 
response  rates  in  the  same  patients  at  an  earlier  stage  of  the  disease  (within-patient  controls)  and  to 
historical controls. 
Historical controls 
One  older  publication  has  been  analysed  (Bunn  et  al,  Ann  Intern  Med,  1994;121:592-602).  The 
response rates were the following (only monotherapy): 
- interferon : CR+PR=55%, (CR=17%) 
- other retinoids: CR+PR=58% (CR=19%) 
Additional analysis of recently published literature revealed 11 monotherapy studies in patients with 
all clinical stages of CTCL and frequently not refractory to previous treatments: 
- liposomal doxorubicin: CR+PR=83%, (CR=67%) 
- interferon : CR+PR=62%, (CR=36%) 
- trimetrexate: CR+PR=53%, (CR=6%) 
Comparison  to  historical  controls  appears  difficult  because  the  patients  treated  by  Targretin  were 
refractory  to  at  least  one  systemic  treatment.  Taking  into  account  that  the  response  rates  in  the 
literature were probably evaluated by the endpoints like PGA, it can be assumed that the efficacy of 
Targretin  (300  mg/m²/day:  CR+PR=  31%  (CA)  or  51%  (PGA),  CR=7%)  is  comparable  to  that  of 
interferon and of other retinoids. However, the complete responses to Targretin are lower than those 
observed with other treatments. 
Within-patient controls 
The response to Targretin was compared to the best response to prior CTCL therapies in 93 advanced 
stage  CTCL  patients  refractory  to  at  least  one  systemic  treatment.  The  responses  to  these  prior 
therapies  were  assessed  by  the  PGA  endpoint  (subjective  investigator’s  judgement)  in  case  report 
forms. 
The most frequent previous systemic treatments were: 
- single agent chemotherapy (different agents) (78 patients, CR+PR=14.1%), followed by  
- interferon (59 patients, CR+PR=15.3%),  
- combination chemotherapy (different regimens)(49 patients, CR+PR=36.7%) and  
- other retinoids (29 patients, CR+PR=17.2%).  
The  overall  response  rate  to  Targretin  was  better  than  the  response  rates  to  all  previous  systemic 
therapies.  The  complete  response  to  Targretin  was  lower  than  that  obtained  by  other  retinoids  and 
combination chemotherapy.  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder has provided data on the patients’ response to prior topical and 
irradiation CTCL therapies (within-patient controls). 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  prior  topical  therapies  the  overall  response  rates  to  Targretin  exceeded  the  response  rates  to  all 
prior topical therapies except topical retinoids (3 patients).  
For prior irradiation therapies: overall response rates to Targretin (31%) was exceeded by the response 
rate  for  electron  beam  therapy  (72%)  and  radiotherapy  (38%).  The  response  rate  to  Targretin  was 
superior to those for photopheresis (30%) and PUVA (24%). The low response rates to topical therapy 
and PUVA therapy is understandable due to advanced stage and refractory character of the disease. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure  
Safety data have been reported from 2 phase II-III clinical studies of 152 CTCL patients and from 9 
open phase I-II, II and II-III clinical studies with 352 non-CTCL patients.  
Safety data for 109 CTCL patients treated at the recommended posology have been analysed, based on 
a duration of exposure with a median of 19.7 weeks (range 3 days to 84.6 weeks).  
A total of 47% (91/193) of all enrolled CTCL patients received at least 24 weeks of Targretin capsule 
therapy. These 91 patients were treated for a median of 308 days (mean 344 days, range 172 to 826 
days). 49/91 patients were treated at the recommended posology. Comparison of the safety profile for 
these  49  patients  to  the  safety  profile  for  all  patients  at  the  recommended  posology  regardless  of 
treatment  duration  shows  that  many  events  are  modestly  higher  for  patients  treated  more  than  24 
weeks. 
The  Four-Month  Safety  Update  data,  based  on  810  patients  treated  with  Targretin  capsules  entered 
into  Ligand’s  database  as  of  30  July  1999,  further  confirm  that  Targretin  capsules  were  generally 
acceptably tolerated.  
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
Adverse events by system and frequency are listed in Table 19. 
Table 9: Summary of adverse events 
Patients experiencing 
Adverse event 
Drug-related adverse event 
Severe adverse event 
Drug related severe adverse event 
Serious adverse event 
Drug-related serious adverse event 
Withdrew due to adverse event 
Withdrew due to drug-related adverse event 
152 CTCL patients 
98.7% 
98% 
27% 
14.5% 
29.6% 
5.9% 
19.1% 
15.8% 
352 non-CTCL patients 
98.3% 
82.1% 
39.8% 
18.2% 
29.8% 
3.1% 
10.8% 
8.2% 
Adverse events by system are listed below. 
Haemic & lymphatic 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
leucopenia 
hypochromic anaemia, lymphadenopathy, lymphoma like reaction 
anaemia,  blood  dyscrasia,  coagulation  disorder,  increased  coagulation  time, 
eosinophilia, 
thrombocythaemia, 
thrombocytopenia 
lymphocytosis,  purpura, 
leukocytosis, 
Endocrine 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
hypothyroidism 
thyroid disorder 
hyperthyroidism 
Metabolic & nutrition 
Very common: 
hyperlipaemia, hypercholesterolaemia 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
increased  SGOT,  increased  SGPT,  increased  lactic  dehydrogenase,  increased 
creatinine, hypoproteinaemia, weight gain 
bilirubinaemia, increased BUN, gout, decreased High Density Lipoprotein  
Nervous system 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Special senses 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Cardiovascular   
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Digestive 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Skin & appendages 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Musculoskeletal 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Urogenital 
Uncommon: 
Body as a whole 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
insomnia, dizziness, hypesthesia 
agitation, ataxia, depression, hyperaesthesia, neuropathy, vertigo 
dry eyes, deafness, eye disorder 
abnormal  vision,  amblyopia,  blepharitis,  specified  cataract,  conjunctivitis, 
corneal lesion, ear disorder, visual field defect 
peripheral oedema 
oedema, haemorrhage, hypertension, tachycardia, varicose vein, vasodilatation 
nausea,  diarrhoea,  dry  mouth,  cheilitis,  anorexia,  constipation,  flatulence, 
abnormal liver function tests, vomiting 
gastrointestinal disorder, hepatic failure, pancreatitis 
pruritus, rash, exfoliative dermatitis 
dry skin, skin disorder, alopecia, skin ulcer, acne, skin hypertrophy, skin nodule, 
sweating 
hair disorder, herpes simplex, nail disorder, pustular rash, serous drainage, skin 
discoloration 
arthralgia, bone pain, myalgia 
myasthenia 
albuminuria, abnormal kidney function 
headache, asthenia, pain 
altered hormone level, chills, abdominal pain, allergic reaction, infection 
back  pain,  cellulitis,  fever,  parasitic  infection,  abnormal  lab  test,  mucous 
membrane disorder, neoplasm 
Hyperlipidemia,  especially  hypertriglyceridemia,  was  the  most  common  adverse  event  reported  in 
association  with  Targretin  capsule  therapy.  For  the  84  CTCL  patients  in  the  300  mg/m2/day  initial 
dose group in the MAA submission database, 79% of patients had at least one reported adverse event 
of hyperlipemia. The severity of hypertriglyceridemia was reduced as the studies progressed and there 
were no subsequent episodes of pancreatitis following the institution of protocol amendments reducing 
the  initial  dose  level  for  the  higher  dose  treatment  arm  and  instituting  strict  guidelines  for  the 
monitoring and management of hyperlipidemia to reduce the risk of additional cases of pancreatitis.   
The modifications of dose regimen and the monitoring and management guidelines that effected this 
improvement in triglyceride levels in the clinical trials are reflected in the guidelines proposed in the 
SPC (See section 4.4 Special warnings and special precautions for use). 
The  hypothyroidism  related  to  Targretin  therapy  was  easily  detected  and  managed,  generally  mildly 
symptomatic until treated, promptly reversible with discontinuation of Targretin capsule therapy, and 
was  not  associated  with  clinical  sequelae.  Recommendations  for  the  monitoring  of  thyroid  function 
have been included in the SPC (See section 4.4 Special warnings and special precautions for use). 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mechanism for diarrhoea observed in the clinical trials of Targretin is unknown.  The incidence of 
drug-related  diarrhoea  was  low  and  was  directly  related  to  initial  dose  level,  but  did  not  appear  to 
increase  substantially  until  the  dose  level  exceeded  the  recommended  posology  of  300  mg/m2/day. 
Most adverse events of diarrhoea were only mild to moderate in severity. Only 0.7% (1/152) of CTCL 
patients withdrew from the studies for a primary reason of an adverse event of drug-related diarrhoea. 
DLTs  of  diarrhoea  were  uncommon,  dose-related,  did  not  appear  to  recur  after  downward  dose 
adjustments,  and  rarely  caused  withdrawal  from  study.  Diarrhoea  was  reported  as  a  DLT  in  1.2% 
(1/84)  of  patients  in  the  300  mg/m2/day  initial  dose  group.  No  CTCL  patient  treated  at  the 
recommended posology experienced a serious adverse event of diarrhoea.  
Diarrhoea has been reported as an adverse event in studies of other retinoids, including tretinoin and 
etretinate.  
Mortality  from  serious  coagulopathy  was  noted  in  preclinical  studies  with  an  oil-based  formulation. 
Dose-limiting  toxicities  consisting  of  haemorrhage  or  events  associated  with  coagulation  parameter 
alterations were rare (2.0%) in CTCL patients and occurred only in the >300 mg/m2/day initial dose 
group. Serious adverse events of this nature were rare (2.0%) in CTCL patients and each was judged 
to  be  not  related  to  Targretin  capsule  therapy  either  by  the  Investigator  or  upon  independent  expert 
review. Determination of haemoglobin should be obtained at baseline, weekly during the first month 
and  then  monthly  thereafter.  Decreases  of  haemoglobin  should  be  managed  according  to  current 
medical  practice.  This  has  been  reflected  in  the  SPC  (see  section  4.4  Special  warnings  and  special 
precautions for use).  
Serious adverse advents 
Among  all  CTCL  patients  included  in  the  safety  update  fatal  serious  adverse  events  judged  to  be  at 
least possibly related to study drug were reported in 6.7% (13/193) of patients with CTCL. The only 
serious adverse events judged related to study drug that occurred in more than one CTCL patient were 
pancreatitis, pruritus, and pain. 
In  the  main  clinical  trials  serious  adverse  events  considered  to  be  drug  related,  or  possibly  related, 
occurred  in  9/152  (6%)  of  patients  with  pancreatitis  occurring  in  four  patients  in  association  with 
elevated plasma triglycerides. Pancreatitis was the main serious adverse event related to hyperlipemia. 
There  were  no  further  events  of  pancreatitis  subsequent  to  the  guidelines  for  the  monitoring  and 
management of hyperlipemia, a period of over 12 months. These guidelines are included in the SPC 
(See section 4.4 Special warnings and special precautions for use).  
Other  serious  adverse  events  included  cholestatic  jaundice  and  bilirubinaemia.  Adverse  events  and 
laboratory  abnormalities  related  to  the  liver  were  not  common  and  were  nearly  exclusively  mild  to 
moderate in severity in the studies of Targretin capsules in CTCL. Perhaps the best indication of the 
level  of  clinical  significance  of  liver  function  test  abnormalities  for  patients  in  the  300  mg/m²/day 
initial  dose  group  was  that  there  was  only  one  patient  (1.2%)  withdrawn  primarily  for  liver  toxicity 
(hyperbilirubinemia), and there were no dose-limiting liver toxicities. However, recommendations for 
the monitoring of hepatic function have been included in the SPC (see section 4.4 Special warnings 
and special precautions for use). 
Also seen were diarrhoea, dehydration, herpes zoster, fever, pruritis and chest pain. Seven of the nine 
patients  recovered.  One  patient  died.  A  second  died  from  Pneumocystis  carinii  pneumonia  after 
developing  cholestatic  jaundice  and  pancreatitis  at  which  time  bexarotene  was  stopped.  For  this 
second patient the fatal event was not considered related to the study drug by the investigator. It is not 
possible  to  detect  from  the  history  given  as  to  whether  drug  induced  leucopenia  contributed  to  this 
death, but this seems unlikely as death occurred 80 days after discontinuation of bexarotene. 
Because  of  preclinical  findings  of  posterior  subcapsular  cataracts  in  rats  and  dogs,  slit-lamp 
examinations were added to the trial protocols after they started. A high prevalence was noted in the 
limited pre-study data of 66% for CTCL patients and 58% for non-CTCL patients and the incidence of 
new cataract formation was 5.2%. Given the high prevalence and natural rate of cataract formation in 
the  older  patient  population  represented  in  the  clinical  studies,  there  was  no  apparent  association 
between  the  incidence  of  lens  opacity  formation  and  Targretin  capsule  administration  in  the  clinical 
studies.  However,  an  effect  of  long-term  bexarotene  treatment  on  cataract  formation  has  not  been 
excluded  and  this  has  been  reflected  in  the  SPC  (see  section  4.4  Special  warnings  and  special 
precautions  for  use).  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  has  agreed  to  closely  monitor  the 
occurrence of cataract formation, particularly during long term treatment. 
29 
 
Retinoids  may  cause  other  types  of  visual  impairment  than  cataract.  It  is  unknown  at  this  time  the 
degree to which these visual abnormalities may be attributable and selective to RAR binding effects. 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  has  committed  to  closely  monitor  visual  abnormalities.  In  the 
non-CTCL  oncology  patients  serious  adverse  events  occurred  in  11/352  (3.1%)  of  the  patients. 
Pancreatitis occurred in three, hypercalcaemia, pneumonia, and dehydration occurred in two patients 
each.  Other  serious  adverse  events  were  fever,  mucous  membrane  disorder,  diarrhoea,  melaena, 
vomiting, anaemia, increased coagulation time, dyspnoea, confusion, conjunctivitis and haematuria. 
Deaths 
In study L1069-24 the median duration of time in the study was seven months with a further median 
five  months  follow  up  during  which  there  were  17  deaths  in  the  107  patients  (94  in  the  original 
database and a further 13 enrolled after the database cut off). Sixteen of the deaths were considered not 
related  or  probably  not  related  by  the  investigator  to  bexarotene.  One  death  from  bleeding, 
haemorrhage, coagulopathy and liver failure was considered possibly related. 
There were only three deaths among CTCL patients subsequent to the ISS and all were judged to be 
not related to study medication by the Investigator. 
In the non-CTCL oncology patients two deaths in the 352 patients receiving bexarotene monotherapy 
were  considered  treatment  related.  One  patient  had  a  prolonged  prothrombin  time  and  died  of  a 
subdural  haematoma.  The  second  patient  died  of  acute  pancreatitis  associated  with  elevated 
triglycerides and continued alcohol abuse. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events  
Adverse  events  leading  to  dose  reduction  or  discontinuation  in  at  least  two  patients  were 
hyperlipidaemia, neutropenia/leucopenia, diarrhoea, fatigue/lethargy, hypothyroidism, headache, liver 
function  test  abnormalities,  rash,  pancreatitis,  nausea,  anaemia,  allergic  reaction,  muscle  spasm, 
pneumonia and confusion. 
Laboratory findings 
In  the  main  efficacy  trial,  study  L1069-24,  there  was  a  marked  fall  in  TSH  concentrations  from  a 
median of 1.60 µU/ml (n=85) at baseline to 0.16 µU/ml at 2-4 weeks (n=39) and 0.37 µU/ml at 12-16 
weeks  (n=27).  Changes  in  total  thyroxine  paralleled  those  of  TSH.  In  the  same  study  there  were 
altered  lipid,  hepatic  and  haematology  parameters.  Abnormalities  in  aspartate  transaminase,  with  a 
increase from normal to above the normal range, occurred in 21% of patients at 2-4 weeks in the 300 
mg/m2/day  group  and  19%  in  the  >300  mg/m2/day.  Triglyceride  concentrations  became  elevated  or 
worsened in 64% of patients (n=94), 28 with concentrations 2.5-5 times the upper limit of normal, 23 
with 5-10 times, and nine with >10 times the upper limit. Cholesterol concentrations became elevated 
or worsened with treatment in 48% of patients, with 21 in the range 7.8-10.3 mmol/l, 14 in the range 
10.3-12.9 mmol/l and 13 above 12.9 mmol/l. Leucopenia was common with 30% having a decrease in 
total leucocyte count and 35% a decrease in neutrophil count to below the normal range by week 4 of 
treatment.  This  effect  on  the  white  count  persisted  with  treatment.  There  was  also  a  fall  in  median 
haemoglobin from 13.2 g/dl at baseline to 12.1 g/dl at 12-16 weeks. 
The  most  common  laboratory  toxicities  (hyperlipidemia,  hypothyroidism  and,  less  frequently, 
leucopenia) were often asymptomatic, easily monitored and managed with well-tolerated concomitant 
medications, rarely required treatment discontinuation, reversible upon discontinuation of therapy, and 
resulted  in  no  clinical  sequelae  except  for  pancreatitis  (and  all  four  CTCL  patients  with  pancreatitis 
recovered).  Only  2.4%  (2/84)  of  patients  at  the  300 mg/m²/day  initial  dose  group  required  Targretin 
capsules  treatment  discontinuation  because  of  hypertriglyceridemia,  and  no  patients  at  this  dose 
required withdrawal from study for a primary reason of hypothyroidism or leucopenia. 
Safety in special populations 
Patients with diabetes mellitus 
Caution  should  be  exercised  when  administering  Targretin  capsules  in  patients  using  insulin,  agents 
enhancing insulin secretion (e.g. sulfonylureas), or insulin-sensitisers (e.g. thiazolidinediones). Based 
on  the  known  mechanism  of  action,  Targretin  capsules  may  potentially  enhance  the  action  of  these 
30 
 
 
agents, resulting in hypoglycaemia. No cases of hypoglycaemia associated with the use of Targretin 
capsules as monotherapy have been reported. 
Other special populations 
No specific information is available.  
The clinical safety and effectiveness of bexarotene in the paediatric population (below 18 years of age) 
have not been studied and this product should not be used in a paediatric population until further data 
become available.  
In view of the limited data, patients with renal insufficiency should be monitored carefully while on 
Targretin  capsule  therapy.  As  patients  with  hepatic  insufficiency  may  theoretically  have  altered 
bexarotene pharmacokinetics, they should be monitored carefully while on Targretin capsule therapy 
Discussion on clinical safety 
In the initial submission, the safety data were presented from 2 CTCL studies (152 patients) and from 
9 non-CTCL studies (352 patients). Only 84 CTCL patients and 56 non-CTCL patients were treated 
with the proposed posology (300 mg/m2/day).  
Later on in the procedure the Marketing Authorisation Holder submitted the safety data collected from 
2 CTCL studies (193 patients) and from 9 non-CTCL studies (420 patients); 109 CTCL patients and 
57 non-CTCL patients were treated by the recommended posology (300 mg/m2/day). 
Targretin safety profile appears comparable to that of other retinoid drugs, except for leucopenia and 
hypothyroidism  (specific  RXR-  related  effect  of  Targretin).  97.4%  of  CTCL  patients,  and  84.8%  of 
non-CTCL patients experienced drug-related adverse events. The most frequent ones in CTCL patients 
were hyperlipemia (73%), hypercholesterolemia (37%), hypothyroidism (35%), exfoliative dermatitis 
+ rash (34%), asthenia (28%), leucopenia (28%), headache (26%) and diarrhoea (12%). The majority 
of these events were dose and duration dependent, requiring a close monitoring during treatment, dose 
adaptations  and/or  specific  treatment  (antilipemic  therapy,  thyroid  hormones  replacement).  6.7%  of 
CTCL and 3.1% non-CTCL patients had drug-related serious adverse events. The most frequent drug-
related serious adverse events was pancreatitis, secondary to hypertriglyceridemia (12/613 cases); all 
patients recovered except one who died. There were no further event of pancreatitis subsequent to the 
introduction of guidelines for the monitoring and management of hyperlipemia.  
Whilst the most common toxicities associated with Targretin capsule therapy in patients with CTCL 
(i.e.,  hypertriglyceridemia,  hypothyroidism,  and  less  frequently,  neutropenia)  often  warranted 
concurrent pharmacological intervention, the required concomitant therapies were easily administered 
and monitored.  These toxicities were reversible upon Targretin capsule dose reduction, suspension or 
discontinuation. Guidance for managing these adverse events is provided in the SPC (see section 4.4 
Special warnings and special precautions for use). 
Because of dose-related posterior subcapsular cataracts in rats and dogs, slit-lamp examinations were 
added to the clinical trial protocols after they started. A high prevalence of cataracts was noted in the 
limited pre-study data of 66% CTCL and 58% non-CTCL patients and the incidence of new cataract 
formation  was  5.7%.  However  the  follow-up  was  too  short  and  an  effect  of  long-term  bexarotene 
treatment on cataract formation has not been excluded and will be closely monitored by the Marketing 
Authorisation  Holder.  A  close  monitoring  of  liver  function  tests,  white  blood  cells,  lipids,  thyroid 
hormones level is recommended in the SPC (see section 4.4 Special warnings and special precautions 
for use). 
The safety data of long term treatment (> 24 weeks) reveals no new or substantially different safety 
issues. 
Except  for  hyperlipidemia,  adverse  events  were  rarely  dose-limiting  for  patients  treated  at  the 
recommended  posology.  For  the  84  patients  in  this  initial  dose  group  in  the  MAA  database, 
hypertriglyceridemia/hypercholesterolemia  was  dose-limiting 
(33/84)  patients  and 
neutropenia/leucopenia  was  dose-limiting  for  3.6%  (3/84)  of  patients.  No  other  single  toxicity  was 
dose-limiting for more than two patients (2.4%). 
Targretin capsule therapy at the recommended posology for patients with CTCL carries substantially 
less  mucocutaneous  and  nail  toxicity  and  less  alopecia  than  other  non-RXR-selective  retinoids.  
Targretin  capsules  may  also  cause  less  myalgias  and  arthralgias.  Lipid  elevations  are  observed  with 
both  RAR  and  RXR-selective  retinoids.  Central  hypothyroidism  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  leucopenia 
were reported only for Targretin capsules and appear to be RXR-related effects.  
for  39% 
31 
 
In  conclusion,  the  safety  profile  of  Targretin  is  close  to  other  retinoids,  except  for  leucopenia  and 
hypothyroidism. The most common treatment-related adverse events were duration dependent.  
Overall conclusion and benefit-risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way. 
Information  has  been  provided  in  the  dossier  demonstrating  that  the  medicinal  product  is  made  in 
compliance  with  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal 
spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products. 
Pre-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Bexarotene  is  a  new  synthetic  retinoid  that  binds  selectively  to  three  RXR  receptors.  Overall,  the 
primary pharmacodynamic studies provided adequate evidence that retinoids, including RXR-selective 
ligands, can modulate T-cell biology, which can have relevance for a possible mechanism of action of 
bexarotene in CTCL.  
Bexarotene was bioavailable following oral administration in both test species. Systemic exposure was 
decreased upon repeat dosing, which could be attributed to metabolic enzyme induction. 
In repeated dose-toxicity studies conducted in rats and in dogs, the target organs of bexarotene were 
eyes,  liver,  adrenals  and  haematological  parameters.  In  rats,  bexarotene  induced  hyperkeratosis  and 
acanthosis of the oesophagus and the non-glandular stomach and follicular atrophy and acanthosis of 
the skin. 
Mortality was observed in both species. Hyperkeratosis of the oesophagus was probably the cause of 
gavage-related injury leading to an increase of the mortality in treated rats; however, the mechanism of 
death was not clearly elucidated in treated dogs. 
Bexarotene was cataractogenic at dosages comparable to human exposition. This effect will be closely 
monitored by the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bexarotene is teratogenic and embryotoxic at dosages comparable to human exposition. Fertility and 
peri-  and  post-natal  effects  of  bexarotene  were  not  evaluated.  The  use  of  bexarotene  has  to  be 
contraindicated during pregnancy. Adequate birth-control measures have to be employed by women of 
childbearing potential. 
Bexarotene is not mutagenic. Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed.  
Efficacy 
The final recommended dose (300 mg/m2/day or 516 mg/day) was empirically decided, by decreasing 
the initial high dose due to toxicity. This dose still seems too high compared to other known retinoids. 
However, the dose recommendation can be accepted, provided that this dose is adapted according to 
the safety profile in each individual patient to obtain the most acceptable benefit/risk ratio. 
No comparative study was provided. The two pivotal studies were open-label, phase II-III studies in 
patients  with  early  stage  CTCL,  and  in  patients  with  advanced  stage  CTCL.  Selected  population 
comprised refractory, resistant or intolerant patients, or patients progressing after initial response to 1 
or  2  previous  treatments.  Primary  efficacy  variable  was  tumour  response  to  treatment,  evaluated  by 
one subjective endpoint (Physicians Global Assessment of clinical condition, PGA) and by one more 
objective endpoint (Composite Assessment of index lesion disease severity, CA).  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder has analysed 193 patients included in both studies; 117 patients 
refractory to at least 1 systemic treatment were analysed, 24 early stage and 93 advanced stage CTCL 
patients. The objective response rate in these patients (CA) was 34%.  
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  can  be  assumed  that  the  efficacy  of  Targretin  is  comparable  to  that  of  interferon  and  of  other 
retinoids in the studied population of patients refractory to at least one systemic treatment. However, 
the complete responses to Targretin are lower than those observed with other treatments. 
For prior irradiation therapies: overall response rates to Targretin (31%) was lower than the response 
rate  for  electron  beam  therapy  (72%)  and  radiotherapy  (38%).  The  response  rate  to  Targretin  was 
superior to those for photopheresis (30%) and PUVA (24%).  
No formal studies to investigate the effects of other substances on bexarotene have been conducted. 
There  are  indications  that  bexarotene  may  induce  CYP3A4.  Therefore,  repeated  administration  of 
bexarotene may increase the rate of metabolism and reduce plasma concentrations of other substances 
metabolised by cytochrome P450 3A4. 
There were no formal studies in special patient populations. 
Safety 
Whilst the most common toxicities associated with Targretin capsule therapy in patients with CTCL 
(i.e.,  hypertriglyceridemia,  hypothyroidism,  and  less  frequently,  neutropenia)  often  warranted 
concurrent pharmacological intervention, the required concomitant therapies were easily administered 
and monitored. These toxicities were reversible upon Targretin capsule dose reduction, suspension or 
discontinuation. 
Because of dose-related posterior subcapsular cataracts in rats and dogs, slit-lamp examinations were 
added to the clinical trial protocols after they started. A high prevalence of cataracts was noted in the 
limited pre-study data of 66% CTCL and 58% non-CTCL patients and the incidence of new cataract 
formation  was  5.7%.  However  the  follow-up  was  too  short  and  an  effect  of  long-term  bexarotene 
treatment on cataract formation has not been excluded and will be closely monitored by the Marketing 
Authorisation  Holder.  A  close  monitoring  of  liver  function  tests,  white  blood  cells,  lipids,  thyroid 
hormones level is adequately addressed in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
The safety data of long term treatment (> 24 weeks) reveals no new or substantially different safety 
issues. 
Caution  should  be  exercised  when  administering  Targretin  capsules  in  patients  using  insulin,  agents 
enhancing insulin secretion, or insulin-sensitisers. Based on the known mechanism of action, Targretin 
capsules may potentially enhance the action of these agents, resulting in hypoglycaemia. 
In  conclusion,  the  safety  profile  of  Targretin  is  close  to  other  retinoids,  except  for  leucopenia  and 
hypothyroidism. The most common treatment-related adverse events were duration dependent. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Targretin  in  the  treatment  of  skin  manifestations  of  advanced  stage 
CTCL  patients  refractory  to  at  least  one  systemic  treatment  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the Marketing Authorisation. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
